




SECTION I EGGS OF INSECTS. 


CHAPTER I. — Introduction 

All insects come from eggs 

Curious experiment of Kircher 

Virpfil’s receipt for niakm^t a swarm of bees 

Origin of these ancient errors . 

Bees in Sampson’s lion accounted for . 

Fancies of Robinet and Darwin . , 

Theory of spontaneous generation 

Popular errors respecting 

Dr. Oood’s account of .... 

No insect eggs afloat in the air 

Specitic gravity of insect eggs . , , 

Theoretical accounts of honey dew . , 

Accounted for by exiieriments 

Instantaneons appearance of insects 

The “ worm i’ the bud ” traced to its egg 

Insectiferous winds ..... 

Supposed showers of frogs, snails, &c. . 

Diffusion of the seeds of plants 

Insects jet out their eggs from fear 

Origin of mosses on walls 

Origin of mould in the heart of an apple 



Physiology of insects’ eggs  

Theory of colours meant for concealment  

Disproved in the case of the eggs of birds  

Illustrated from insect eggs 

Cause of the colours in eggs 

Structure of insects’ eggs. 

Egg*' of ants, spiders, and glow-worms 

Form of insect eggs .

Cause of the oval form in birds’ eggs 

Sciiljitu re ot the eggs of insects 

Curious appendages to eggs  

Eggs with i^oot-s talks 

Number of insect eggs, and their fecundity, compared with 
Other animals 





Maternal care of insects respecting their eggs 

Intitanced in a carpenter bee (Chelostoma) . 
Ichneumons compared to the cnckuo 
Proceeding of a solitary bee (^Jlalictut) • 
Stratagems of a solitary wasp ( Cerccris} 
Ovipositor of an ichneumon (Pimpla) . . 

Experiments of Reaumur . . 

Common mistakes of Naturalists 
Parasite of the cabbage caterpillar (Pontia) 

Egg parasites 

Parasites of the aphides 

Singular parasite of the cork-roach

Rare parasites of bees and wasps 
Tact of insects in discovering food for their young 
Sometimes select exotic plants  
Instanced in a leaf-ininer (Tcphrttis f) 

Solitary and gregarious caterpillars 
Life-boat of eggs constructed by the gnat 

Experiments upon it 

Infallibility of instinct questioned  

Mistakes of instinct 








Hybernation of insects’ eggs 

Proceedings of the gypsey moth compared to the 

Singular groups of eggs 

Protection of eggs from heat 

Anal tweezers of moths 

Eggs in spiral groups 

Arched form of the lackey moth’s eggs 
Hybernation of the eggs of aphides 

Singular protection of the eggs of cocci  

Coccus of the Hawthorn 
Shell-formed coccus of the currant  
Hybernation of spiders’ eggs 

Curious spiders’ nests 

Eggs of the va|x)urer moth on its cocoon 
Effects of cold on insects’ eggs .... 
Observations of John Hunter 
Insects not killed by severe frosts 


eider 


duck 




Hatching of insect eggs 

Structure of the eggs of birds 

Insects do not hatch their eggs 

Anomalous instance of the earwig 

Earwigs eaunot get into the brain 

Partial hatching by spiders  

Experiments upon the wolf spider by Swammerdam and 

Bonnet 

Eggs hatched before they are laid  

Ovo- VI VI paious insects  

Coll of larvw in the Inidy of a blow-fly 

Aphides sometimes produce eggs, sometimes young 

Care taken of these eggs by ants 






Cocco-viviparous flies (Hipjpo6o*cida?) 

Effects of neat upon eggs

Management of silk-worms’ eggs 

Effects of light on eggs  

Some insect eggs increase in size  

Growlh of the eggs of ants 

Dcvelopement of the eggs of spiders 

Spiders live long without food  

Insects probably gnaw through their egg-shells 

Valves of insect eggs

Period of hatching influenced by temperature 




Structure of caterpillars, grubs, and maggots. 

Meanings of these terms ..... 

Supposed transmutation of plants into animals 

Observations of Unger upon this 

Remarks of Bory Sf. Vincent .... 

Supposed formative power ot the blood . 

Embryo butterfly in the caterpillar . . 

Experiments to shew this .... 

Dissections of the buds of plants .... 

Dilterence of plants from insects • . 

Internal structure of caterpillars .... 

Breathing. tubes and formation of their blood 
Colours of caterpillars not intended for concealment 
ImitHtive forms of caterpillars .... 

Walking-leaf insect 

Caterpillars in form of branches 
Conspicuously coloured caterpillars 

Butterflies supposed to be coloured like flowers . 
Singular forms of caterpillars 

Forms of water-grubs

Breathing organs in wafer larvae 
Water uorins {Nam) may be mistaken for larvm . 
Syringe for respiration in a wafer larva , 

Curious mask of the same larva 

Dubt mask ol (he wolf bug {Kcduriui) 



Growth, moulting, strength, defence, and hybernation of larvae 
Progressive increase of the silk-Avonii ... 
Compared with the grovvth of buds .... 
Process of moulting or casting the skin ... 
Accidents interrupt this process. .... 

Reds, a disorder .similar to renal gravel. . 

Position of the hairs in moulting .... 
Casting of the interior lining of the stomach, Scv. . 

JMoiiltmg of birds 

Cast skins sometimes devoured . . . . . 

Mis-statement of Goldsmith 

Contrivances for escape from confinement 
Muscular strength of insects 





Pape 

Fleas made to draw miniatare coaches 

Numerous muscles of the 

Its wonderful strength 

Mis-statements respecting the strength of insects 

Means of escape by spinning 

Defensive hairs and spines of caterpillars 

Kxorementitious covering of some larvie 

Origin of the froth on plants called 

Winter covering of caterpillars 

Fat a probable defence against cold 



Voracity of caterpillars, grubs, and maggots 

Increase of weight in the silk-worm in thirty days 

Remarkable change in the capacity of the stomach 

Instances of human voracity  

Jaws or luaiidiblcs of larvm  

Caterpillars  

Jihglit caused by an oak-leaf- roller

Ravages of the buff-till 

Kncauiping caterpillars of the ermine moths  

Experinents with these 

Extraordinary ravages of the brown-tail moth  

Strange enactment of the J’arliamenl of Pans
Cause of the abundance of caterpillar in particular years 

Alarm caused 111 France by the gamma moth

Calculation of their fecundity  

Cabbage caterpillars prefer weeds

Disappearance of the black-veined white butterfly 

Ravages of the caterpillar of the goobeberry saw-fly 

Similar ravages emninitled on other trees

Slug worm of North America 

Turnip fly erroneously fancied to come across the sea to Norfolk  
Effects of JEgeria* on currant and poplar trees  

Destruction of gram by Euplue.ami and Tineae 

Bee hives injured by (iallariPB 

Caterpillar which feeds on chocolate 

. 

Voracity of grubs 225 

Grill) of the cockchafer or may-bug 

Account of Us transformation, N.C. 
Methods of destroying 

Wire worm the grub of Heiuirhi pus 

Probable mistake respecting the destruction of wheat 

Pea beetle of North America  

Corn weevil

Weal worm, the gnil) of 'J’enebrio molitor  

Tabby moth caterpillar devours butter and fat  

Intestinal worms  

Mistakes of Linnmus, Dr. Barry, and Dr. J. P. Frank 

Experiment of M.Dcslonchainjis 

Extraordinary i-asc of A1 ary iiiordan, by Dr. Pickells 

Authenticity of this case proved

Fruit grubs

Nut weevil audits transformatious  





Apple-bud weevil  

Voracity of Calosoma  

Hayed pfallenes of a bark-grub 

Ravages of locusts  

Their swarms in Southern Africa 

The Italian locust  

Migrations in Palestine and Europe  



Voracity of maggots

Maggots of crane flies popularly called the grub 

Remarkable ovipositor  

Destruction of herbage on Blackheath 

Similardevastations in Poitou and Holderness 

Wheat fly, described by Mr. Shireff 

Additional particulars by Mr. Gorrie 

Observations of Kirby 

Mistake of Mr. Markwick  

Hessian fly, as described by Mr. Say  

Cheese-hopper the maggot of rioplula 

Wonderful structure of this maggot

Its transformation into a fly 

Origin of the hou.se fly (Aittsca dowesficfl)  

Mistakes of Ray and Reaumur 

Voracity of the maggots of blow flies  

Instance of man devoured by them. 
Popular mistake respecting lady-birds 

Their tran.sforfnation.s traced to the egg  

Aphides checked by these and by Syrphidm  


 


Mechanism of suspending chry.salide.s 

Proceedings of larvw upon their approaching change  

In what manner some caterpillars suspend themselves 

Their attempts sometimes unsuccessful 

Organ for holding fast 

Siispen.sory cincture of other caterpillars

Method of forming this by the swallow-tail 

Parchment-like ]»upa case of flies (A/MScidcr) 

Flask-shaped ])up!B of Syrnhidm 

Transformations of a Tipulidan gnat  
Mode by which the nymph is suspended 

Hooked aquatic pupa (Z/^drocampaO 




Form and structure of pupae 

The term metamorphosis objected to 
Harvey’s fancies about transmutation 

Similar fancies of Goedart exposed by Sw'aininerdam , 

Structure of the jiupa of the chameleon fly 

Pupa of the lappit moth ..... 

Chrysalis and transformations of the peacock butterfly 

Origin of philosophic errors ..... 

Changes produced on pupae by evaporation . • 





Objections to the theory of evaporation. 

Respiratory organs of pup» ..

Experiments upon the breathing of pupae  

Valves of the spiracles 

Breathing apparatus in the pupae of aquatic crane flies and gnats 
Plumed apparatus of the blood-worm  




Transformation of pupm into perfect insects  

Theory of transpiration by means of heat  
Objections to this theory 

Experiments by Kcaumur 

Chrysalides hatched under a hen 

Forcing of butterflies in winter 

Retarding the evolution of butterflies by cold 

Experiments on pupae led to the varnishing of eggs 
Illustrations of torpidity in animals and plants 

Various periods of disclosure in the same brood 

Supposed final cause of this 

Fixed time of the day for some insects to be evolved 
Remarhabic evolution of the gnat
Still more remarkable instance of the blood-worm. 

Netted doors in the pupa cases of caddis-flies 

Bellows-apparatus m the pupa of the blow-fly 
Contrivance in the pupao of wood- feeders  

Singularity in the locust moth 

Ingenious contrivance in a small leaf -roller 
Mistake of Bonnet with respect to the teazle-moth
Pupa eases ojiened by extraneous assistance 
Observations on this by the younger Huber 

Exyieriinent by Dr. J. R. .lobnson .... 

De Geer’s observations contrary to those of Swammerdam 
Remarkable circumstance in the hive bee . 





Expansion of the body and wings in insects newly transformed 

Structure of birds to contain air 

Expansion in the fly oi the ant-lion 

'J'he mandibles prove it carnivurous 

Transformations of dragon-flies 

Folded wings of some two-winged flies 

Maljughi’s account of the transtormations of the silk-worm  

Impulsion of fluids into the wings 

Kirby’s account of the expansion of the swallow-tailed butterfly  
Swammerdam's acecmnl of the wings of the bee 

Air-tubes in insects’ wings

Nervures in the wings ot plumed moths

Perfect insects do not increase in size 

Imperfect insects from fallen chrysalides 

Discharges from newly-evolved insects 

SuppobM bhowers of blood accounted fur .





Theories devised to account for crimson-snow . 
Curious fact explaining; this, by Mr. T. Nicholson , 
Does not explain the fed snow of the Alps , 




Peculiar motions of insects . . 

Motion indispensable to life , , 

Anecdote of a water-measurer 
Mode of combing themselves used by spiders 
Oscillatory motions of some tipulidae . , 

Vibratory motions of syrphi on the wing . 
Similar motions of hawks, red-breast, &c. . 
Experiment on Sr.iopfcra viltrans , . 

Illustrated by the wag-tail, &c. . . , 

Gnat dances in winter .... 
Opinion of Wordsworth and others 
Similar aifrial dances of rooks . 
Night-gambols of Curethresf on a book 
Circular movements of a summer fly 
Sjiortive movements not necessarily social . 
Account of the whirlwig, by Kirby and by Kni 
Remarkable structure of its eyes . 

Battles of butterflies .... 
Choral assemblies of ephemeridae 
Account of these by Reaumur . , 

Sports of ants 

Gymnastics of ants, according to Huber 




Peculiar locomotions of insects 

Examples from quadrupeds 

Singular movements of some plant-bugs .

Sailing of the whirlwig beetle 

Walking on water by spiders, &c. 

Walking through water by aquatic mites .... 
Oblique pace of midges 

Insect with its legs on its back 

Rapid galloping of the strawberry mite .... 
Slow movements of the oil-beetlcs 

Supposed sponges in the foot of the fly 

Correct notions of Derham and White, proved by Sir E. Home 

Apparatus in the feet of flies 

Leaping mubcles of the flea ...... 

Leaping of grasshoppers and springtails • . • . 

Springing ot spiders on their prey 

Plight of insects 

Mechanism of insects’ wings and their muscles, .'Ktcordiiig to 
M. Chabner 

Plying ol spiders without wings • 




Rest of insects .... 
Night insects rest in the day 





Day movements of other insects 

Insects have no brain nor spinal cord . , 

Want also a proper heart as well as blood , 

Supposed pulse in insects 

Ne circulation 

Allegfed discovery of an insect circulation, by Dr. Carus 
How the circulation is affected in the sleep of man , 
The same effects cannot take place in insects . 
Sleep of senses not equally profound . • • . 

Torpidity of insects in winter 

Hybernation of ants 

Anecdotes from Huber 

Hybernation of bees 

Discrepancies of opinion among naturalibts , 
Hybernation ol the hearth cricket .... 






All Insects come from Eggs as Plants do from Seeds. — Vulgar errors 
of Insects being generated by Putrefaction and Blighting Winds dis- 
proved by experiment. 

It was universally believed by the ancient philoso- 
phers, that magg'ots, flies, and other insects were 
g-enerated from putrefying substances. This opinion 
continues to be held by uninformed persons among 
ourselves ; — though it would be equally correct to 
maintain, that a flight of vultures had been generated 
by the dead carcass which they may be seen devouring, 
or a flock of sheep from the grass-field in which they 
graze. Another opinion, perhaps still more generally 
diffused, is that caterpillars, aphides, and other garden 
insects which destroy the leaves of plants, are gene- 
rated, propagated, or, at least, spread about, by certain 
winds or states of the air, mysteriously and inde- 
finitely termed blight. The latter belief is, probably, 
not so easy of immediate refutation as the former ; — 
but, as we shall endeavour to shew, it seems to us to 
be equally erroneous. 

The small size of insects renders it somewhat easy 
to pass off fanciful opinions regarding them, since it 
is difficult for common observers to detect mistakes ; 




but similar notions have been entertained by writers 
of no mean reputation, respecting even the larger 
animals. The celebrated Kircher, for example, one 
of the most learned men of the seventeenth century, 
goes so far as to give the following singular recipe 
for the manufacture of snakes: — 

“ Take some snakes,** says he, “ of whatever kind 
you want, roast them, and cut them in small pieces, 
and sow those pieces in an oleaginous soil ; then, 
from day to day, sprinkle them lightly with water 
from a watering-pot, taking care that the piece of 
ground be exposed to the spring sun, and in eight 
days you will see the earth strewn with little worms, 
which, being nourished with milk diluted with 
water, will gradually increase in size till they take 
the form of perfect serpents. This,” he subjoins 
with great simplicity, “ I learned from having found 
in the country the carcase of a serpent covered with 
worms, some small, others larger, and others again 
that had evidently taken the form of serpents. It 
was still more marvellous to remark, that among 
these little snakes, and mixed as it were with them, 
were certain flies, which I should take to be engen- 
dered from that substance which constituted the 
aliment of the snakes*.** 

Kircher’s more shrewd and less fanciful cor- 
respondent, Redi, determined to prove this singular 
recipe before he trusted to the authority of his friend. 
“ Moved,’* he says, “by the authentic testimony of 
this most learned writer, I have frequently tried the 
experiment, but I could never witness the genera- 
tion of those blessed snakelets made to handf.** 
But though Redi could not, in this way, produce a 
brood of snakes, his experiments furnished an 
abundant progeny of maggots, — the same, miques- 

? Athan. Kircher, Mund. Subterran. lib. xii. 
f Redi, Generat. Insectorum, edit. Amstel. 1G86. 





tionably, that the imagination of Kircher had mag- 
nified into young snakes, — which, being confined in 
a covered box, were in a short time transformed into 
flies, at first of a dull ash colour, wrinkled, un- 
finished, and their wings not yet unfolded, — as is 
always the case with winged insects just escaped 
from their pupa case. In less than an hour, how- 
ever, they “ unfolded their wings and changed into 
a vivid green, marvellously brilliant” — most pro- 
bably the green flesh-fly {Musca Cceaar, Linn.) 

It is a common opinion in this country, particu- 
larly in the north, that if a horse’s hair be put into 
the water of a spring or a ditch, it will be in process 
of time transformed, first into a hair-worm, and 
afterwards into an eel. The deception, as in the 
instance of Kircher’s snakes, arises from the close 
resemblance between a hair and the hair-worm 
{Gordius aquaticns, Linn.), and between this and 
a young eel. This fabled transformation of hair, 
which we have heard maintained even by several 
persons of good education, is physically impossible 
and absurd. 

The method laid down by Virgil in his Georgies 
for generating a swarm of bees is precisely of the 
same description as the snake recipe of Kircher ; and 
though the “ Episode of Aristaeus recovering his 
bees ” has been pronounced to be “ perhaps the 
finest piece of poetry in the world,” we must be 
permitted to say that it is quite fabulous and un- 
philosophical. The passage r\ins thus : — 

Oft from putrid gore of cattle slain 
Bees have been bred. * ^ * A narrow place, 

And for that use contracted, first they choose, 

Then more contract it, in a narrower room. 

Wall’d round, and cover’d with a low built roof. 

And add four windows, of a slanting light 
From the four winds. A b]LiUock then is sought, 

His horns just bending in their second year ; 





Him, much reluctant, with o’erpow’ringf orce. 

They bind ; his mouth and nostrils stop, and all 
The avenues of respiration close ; 

And buffet him to death: his hide no wound 
Receives ; his batter’d entrails burst within. 

Thus spent they leave him ; and beneath his sides 
Lay shreds of boughs, fresh lavender and thyme. 

This, when soft zephyr’s breeze first curls the wave, 

And prattling swallows hang their nests on high. 
Meanwhile the juices in the lender bones 
Heated ferment ; and, wondrous to behold, 

Small animals, in clusters, thick are seen, 

Short of their legs at first: on filmy wings, 

Humming, at length they rise; and more and more 
Fan the thin air; ’till, numberless as drops 
Pour’d down in rain from summer clouds, they fly. 

Trapp’s Virgil, Georg, iv. 369. 

Columella, a Roman writer on rural affairs, after 
directing; in what manner honey is to be taken from 
a hive by killing the bees, says, that if the dead bees 
be kept till spring;, and then exposed to the sun 
among; the aslies of the fig;-trec, properly pulverised, 
they may be restored to life. 

These fancies have evidently originated from mis- 
taking certain species of flies (^Syrphi^ Bomhylii^ 
&c.) for bees, v/hich, indeed, they much resemble in 
general api)earaiicc ; though they have only two 
wings, and ahort antennae, while all bees have ybi/r 
wings, and long antenna'. Neither the flies nor the 



Comparative lignres of a bee (a) and a syrphus (h). 


bees arc produced by putrefaction ; — but as the flies 
are found about animal bodies in a state of decom- 
position, the ancients fell into an error which accurate 
observation alone could explode. The maggots of 




blow-flies, as Swammerdam remarks, so often 
found in the carcasses of animals in summer, “ some- 
what resemble those produced by the eggs of 
bees. However ridiculous,” he adds, “ the opinion 
must appear, many great men have not been 
ashamed to adopt and defend it. The industrious 
Goedart has ventured to ascribe the origin of 
bees to certain dunghill worms*, and the learned 
De Mei joins with him in this opinion ; though 
neither of them had any observation to ground their 
belief upon, but that of the external resemblance 
between bees and certain kinds of flies {Syrphidai) 
produced from those worms. The mistake of such 
authors should teach us,” he continues, “to use 
great caution in our determinations concerning 
things which we have not thoroughly examine^ 
or at least to describe them with all the circum- 
stances observable in them. Therefore, although 
this opinion of bees issuing from the carcasses of 
some other animals by the power of putrefaction, 
or by a transposition of parts, be altogether absurd, 
it has had, notwithstanding, many followers, who 
must have in a manner shut their eyes in order to 
embrace it. But whoever will attentively consider 
how many requisites there are for the due hatching 
of the bee’s egg, and for its subsistence in the grub 
state, cannot be at a loss for a clue to deliver himself 
out of that labyrinth of idle fancies and unsupported 
fables, which, entangled with one another like a 
Gordian knot, have even to this day obscured the 
beautiful simplicity of this part of natural historyt.” 

Redi was by no means satisfied with the first results 
of his experiments upon the flesh of snakes, for several 

* The roag^gots of Eristalis ienax, Fabr. E. apiformis, Meigen, 
and other Syrphidee, well known in common sewers by their 
long tails, like those of rats. 

f Swaminerd. Book of Nature, i. 228. 




species of flies were produced, ^ivin^ some coun- 
tenance to the opinion of Aristotle, Pliny, Mouffet, 
and others, that different flesh eng^enders different 
flies, inheriting: the disposition of the animal they are 
bred from. He according:ly tried almost every 
species of flesh, fish, and fowl, both raw and cooked, 
and soon discovered (as he could not fail to do) that 
the same mag:g:ots and flies were produced indis- 
criminately in all. This ultimately led him to 
ascertain that no mag’gfots are ever g:enerated except 
from eggs laid by the parent flies: for when he 
carefully covered uj) pieces of meat with silk or 
paper sealed down with wax, no mag:g:ots were 
seen ; but the parent flies, attracted by the smell of 
the covered meat, not unfrequently laid their eggs 
on the outside of the paper or silk, the maggots 
hatched from these dying, of course, for want of 
nourishment. 

With respect to bees, it becomes even more absurd 
to refer their generation to putrefaction, when we 
consider that they uniformly manifest a peculiar 
antipathy to dead carcasses. This was remarked so 
long ago as the time of Aristotle and of Pliny * ; 
and Varro asserts that bees never alight upon an 
unclean place, nor upon any thing which emits an 
unpleasant smell. This is strikingly exemplified in 
their carrying out of the hive the bodies of their 
companions who chance to die there ; and in their 
covering over with propolis tlie bodies of snails, 
micef, and other small animals which they cannot 
remove J. 

These facts, which are unquestionable, may at 
first view appear to contradict the Scripture history 

• Aristotle, Hist. Animal, ix. 40. Pliny says, “Omnes carnc 
vescuntur, contra quam apes, quae nullum corpus attingunt.** 

f Huivli on Bees, p. 100. 

t Insect Architecture, p. 109. 





of Samson, who, having killed a yoiin^ lion in the 
vineyards of Timnath, “after a time turned aside to 
see the carcass of the lion : and behold a swarm of 
bees and honey in the carcass*” It only requires 
us, however, to examine the facts, to shew that 
this docs not disac^ree with the preceding statement. 
Bochart, in his Sacred Zoology, tells us that the 
word rendered “ carcass ” literally signifies skeleton ; 
and the Syriac version still more strongly renders 
it a dried body (corpus exsiccatiim). Bochart fur- 
ther contends, that the phrase “after a time’* is one 
of the commonest Hebraisms for a year. But when 
we consider the rapid desiccation caused by the sum- 
mer suns of Palestine, this extension of time will be 
unnecessary ; for travellers tell us that the bodies of 
dead camels become quite parched there in a few 
days. We have the testimony of Herodotus, that a 
swarm of bees built their cells and made honey in 
the dried carcass of a man placed above the gate of 
Athamanta. Soranus also tells us of a swarm of 
bees found in the tomb of the celebrated Hippocrates. 
“ I have been told,’* says Redi, “ by Albergotto, a 
man of profound erudition, that he had seen a swarm 
in the cranium of a horse. Bees,” he adds, “not 
only do not live upon dead bodies, but they will not 
even come near them, as 1 have oltcn proved by ex- 
periment.” “ It is probable,’* says Swammerdam, 
“ that the not rightly understanding Samson’s ad- 
venture of the lion gave rise to the popular opinion 
of bees springing from dead lions, oxen, and horses.** 
Kirby and Spence seem disposed to consider Samson’s 
bees, as we have done those of Virgil, to be flies 
resembling bees; but the “honey** which Samson 
“ took in his hands and went on eating,*’ is fatal to 
such an exposition. 

The ancients had another fancy respecting the 
? J udges, xiv. 8. 






propagation of bees, equally absurd, though much 
more poetical. Virgil tells us that, 

From herbs and fragrant flowers, with their mouths 
They cull their young. Georg, iv. 

Aii^Otle* had long before stated, and De Monfort 
in modern times repeated the assertion t, that the 
olive, the cerinthus, and some other plants, have the 
property of generating young bees from their purest 
juices. We may well say, with Lactantius, that 
“they make shipwreck of their wisdom, who adopt 
without judgment the opinions of their ancestors, 
and allow themselves to be led by others like a flock 
of sheep J.” Modern naturalists, being accustomed 
to minute accuracy in their observations, can both 
disprove and readily explain most of those erroneous 
fancies, by tracing the causes which led, and may 
still lead, inaccurate observers into such mistakes. 

It would have been well if such unfounded fancies 
had rested here ; but philosophical theorists, both of 
ancient and modern times, have promulgated dreams 
much more extravagant. The ancients taught that 
the newly-formed earth (hatched as some said from 
an egg) clothed itself with a green down like that 
on young birds, and soon after men began to sprout 
up from the ground as we now see mushrooms do. 
The refined Athenians were so firmly convinced of 
their having originally sprung up in this manner, 
that they called themselves “ Earth-born ” {Erich-- 
thonii)y and wore golden tree-hoppers {Cicadm) in 
their hair, erroneously supposing these insects to 
have a common origin with themselves §. Lucretius 

* Hist. Animal, v. 22. 

f Le Portrait de la Mouche a Miel. Liege, 1646. 

J Divin. Instit. ii. 7 ; in Redi’s motto. Shepherds on the con- 
tinent lead their sheep, as those of Israel did. See Menageries, 
vol. i. p. 81. 

5 The Cicadae do not deposit their eggs in the earth, but on 
trees, &c. See Insect Architecture^ chap. vii. 




affirms, that even in his time, when the earth was 
supposed to be growing too old to be reproductive, 
“ many animals were concreted out of mud by 
shoAvers and sunshine^.’’ 

But the ancients, it would appear, had^the 
shrewdness seldom to venture upon illustrations of 
their philosophical romances by particular examples. 
This was reserved for the more reckless theory- 
builders of our own times. We find Robinet, for 
example, asserting that, as it was nature’s chief 
object to make man, she began her “ apprentissage,” 
as he calls it, by forming minerals resembling the 
single organs of the human body, such as the brain 
in the fossil called Braiii-stone (Meandrina cerebri^ 
formis, Parkinson f). Darwin, again, taking the 
hint from Epicurus, dreams that animals arose from 
a single filament or threadlct of matter, which, by 
its efforts to procure nourishment, lengthened out 
parts of its body into arms and other members. 
For example, after this filament had improved itself 
into an oyster, and been by chance left dry by the 
ebbing of the tide, its efibrts to reach the water 
again expanded the parts nearest to the sea into arms 
and legs. If it tried to rise from its native rocks, 
the efforts produced wings, and it became an insect, 
which in due course of time imi)roved itself by fresh 
efforts till it became a bird, the more perfect members 
being always hereditarily transmitted to the progeny. 
Tlie different forms of the bills of birds, whether 
liooked, broad, or long, were, he says, gradually 
acquired by the perpetual endeavours of the creatures 
to supply their wants. The long-legged water- 

? Multaqiie nunc cli<am cxistunt anirnalia terris, 

Imbribus ct calido soils coricreta vapore. 

De Nut, Her. v. 795. 

f Robinet, Consid. Philosophiques de la Gradation Naturelle 
des Formes de I’Etrc. Paris, 176y. 





fowl (Grallatores, Vigors) in this way acquired 
length of legs sufficient to elevate their bodies above 
the water in which they waded. “A proboscis,” he 
says, “ of admirable structure has thus been acquired 
by the bee, the moth, and the humming-bird, for 
the purpose of plundering the nectaries of flowers*.” 
Lamarck, an eminent French naturalist, recently 
deceased, adopted the same visions ; and, among other 
illustrations of a similar cast, he tells us that the 
giraffe acquired its long neck by its efforts to browse 
on the high branches of trees, which, after the lapse of 
a few thousand years, it successfully accomplished. 

Theories like the preceding all originate in the en- 
deavours of human ingenuity to trace the operations 
of nature farther than ascertained facts will warrant; 
and the necessary blanks in such a system, which 
presupposes much that cannot be explained, are 
filled up by the imagination. This inability to 
trace the origin of minute plants and insects led 
to the doctrine of what is called spontaneous or 
equivocal generation, of which the fancies above- 
mentioned are some of the prominent branches. 
The experiments of Redi on the hatching of insects 
from eggs, which were published at Florence in 
1668, first brought discredit upon this doctrine, 
though it had always a few eminent disciples. At 
present it is maintained by a considerable num- 
ber of distinguished naturalists, such as Blumen- 
bach, Cuvier, Bory de St. Vincent, R. Brown, 
&c. “ The notion of spontaneous generation,” 

says Bory, “ is at first revolting to a rational mind, 
but it is, notwithstanding, demonstrable by the 
microscope. The fact is averred : Muller has seen 
it, 1 have seen it, and twenty other observers have 
seen it : the Pandorinia exhibit it every instant t.’ 

* Darwin’s Zoonomia, sect, xxxix. 3d edit. London, 1801. 

t Diet. Classique d‘ Hist, Nat., Art. Microscopiques, p. 541, 




These pandorinia he elsewhere describes as probably 
nothing more than animated scions of Zoocarpee 
(propagules animes des Zoocarpes)*. It would 
be unprofitable to go into any lengthened dis- 
cussion upon this mysterious subject ; and we have 
great doubts whether the ocular demonstration by the 
microscope would succeed except in the hands of a 
disciple of the school. Even with naturalists, whose 
business it is to deal with facts, the reason is often 
wonderfully influenced by the imagination. 

But the question immediately before us happily 
does not involve these recondite discussions; for 
if even pandorinia and other animalcules were 
proved beyond a doubt to originate in the play of 
chemical affinities or galvanic actions — (a more 
refined process, it must be confessed, than Kircher’s 
chopped snakes), it would not aflect our doctrine that 
all insects are hatched from eggs : for no naturalist 
of the present day classes such animalcules among 
insects. Leaving animalcules and zoophytes, there- 
fore, out of the question, we have only to examine 
such branches of the theory of spontaneous genera- 
tion as seem to involve the propagation of genuine 
insects, — like the fancies about putrefaction which 
we have seen refuted. 

The notion that small insects, such as aphides 
and the leaf-rolling caterpillars, are spread about, or 
rather generated, by what is termed blight (possibly 
from the Belgic hlinkan, to strike with lightning), 
is almost universally believed even by the most 
intelligent, if they have not particularly studied the 
habits of insects. Mr. Main, of Chelsea, an ingenious 
and well-informed gardener and naturalist, describes 
this as an “ easterly wind, attended by a blue mist. 
The latter is called a blight, and many people 
imagine that the aphides are wafted through the 
* Diet. Class., Art. Pandorin6es. 






air by this same mist^/’ “The farmer,” says 
Keith, “supposes these insects are wafted to him 
on the east wind, while they are only generated in 
the extravasated juices as forming a proper nidus for 
their eggst.” A more detailed account, however, 
is given by the late Dr. Mason Good, and as he 
speaks in part from personal observation, and was 
not only one of the most learned men of his time, 
but an excellent general naturalist, his testimony 
merits every attention : — 

“ That the atmosphere,” says Dr. Good, “ is 
freighted with myriads of insect eggs that elude our 
senses, and that such eggs, when they meet with a 
proper bed, are hatched in a few hours into a perfect 
form, is clear to any one who has attended to the 
rapid and wonderful eflects of what, in common lan- 
guage, is called a blight upon plantations and gar- 
dens. I have seen, as probably many who read this 
work have also, a hop-ground completely overrun 
and desolated by the apJm limnuli, or hop green - 
louse, within twelve hours after a honey-dew (which 
is a peculiar haze or mist loaded with poisonous 
miasm) has slowly swept through the plantgtion, 
and stimulated the leaves of the liop to the morbid 
secretion of a saccharine and viscid juice, which, 
while it destroys the young shoots by exhaustion, 
renders them a favourite resort for this insect, and a 
cherishing nidus for myriads of little dots that are its 
eggs. The latter are hatched within eight and forty 
hours after their deposit, and succeeded by hosts of 
other eggs of the same kind ; or, if the blight take 
place in an early part of the autumn, by hosts of the 
young insects produced viviparously ; for, in different 
seasons of the year, the aphis breeds both ways. 
Now it is highly probable that there are minute 

* Loudon’s Mag. of Nat. Hist. i. 180. 
f Keith’s Physiological Botany, ii. 48G. 








eggs, or ovula, of innumerable kinds of animalcules 
floating by myriads of myriads through the atmo- 
sphere, so diminutive as to bear no larger proportion 
to the eggs of the aphis than these bear to those of 
the wren or the liedge-sparrow ; protected at the 
same time from destruction, by the filmy integument 
that surrounds them, till they can meet with a proper 
nest for their reception, and a proper stimulating 
power to quicken them into life ; and which, with 
respect to many of them, are only found obvious to the 
senses in ditferent descriptions of animal fluids^.” 

It appears to us that it can be nothing more than 
a fancy, which is quite unsupported by evidence, to 
say that the eggs of any species of animalcules or 
insects float about in the atmosphere; for, inde- 
pendent of their weight, (every known species being 
greatly heavier than air,) the parent insects of every 
species whose history has been accurately investi- 
gated manifest the utmost anxiety to deposit their 
eggs upon or near the appropriate food of the young. 
To commit them to the winds would be a complete 
dereliction of this invariable law of insect economy. 
But admitting for a moment this hypothesis, that the 
eggs of insects are diflused through the atmosphere, 
the circumstance must be accompanied with two 
conditions, — the eggs must either be dropped by the 
parents while on the wing, or be carried off by winds 
from the terrestrial substances upon which they may 
have been deposited. 

On the supposition that the eggs are dropped by the 
mother insects while on the wing, we must also admit 
(for there is no avoiding it) that they continue to 
float about, unhatched, from the end of the summer 
till the commencement of spring, at which time only 
the broods make their appearance. Yet when we 

* Good’s Study of Medicine, v, i., p, 339, 3rd edition, London, 
1829. 

 


consider the rains, snows, and winds, to which they 
must be exposed for six or nine months, we think 
the hardiest theorist would scarcely maintain that a 
single egg could out-weather these vicissitudes, and 
continue to float in the air. It may not be out of 
place to remark, that the female aphides, which deposit 
eggs in autumn, have no wings. 

Again, on the supposition that the eggs are de- 
posited on plants, trees, or other objects, it is still 
more unlikely that they could be carried into the air ; 
for, on exclusion, they are, with very few exceptions *, 
enveloped in an adhesive cement which glues them 
to the spot on which they are deposited. When 
eggs are deposited singly, this cement usually enve- 
lopes each with a thin coating, as in the instance of 
the admirable butterfly (Vanessa Atalanta); but 
when they are placed in a group the cement is 
sometimes spread over the whole, as in the instance 
of the white satin moth (Leucoma salicis, Ste- 
phens). This cement is evidently intended by 
Nature (who seldom accommodates her plans to 
our theories) to prevent the eggs from being carried 
from the place selected by the mother insect for their 
deposition. Those eggs, therefore, which are placed 
on the outside of substances, have this provision 
for their secure attachment to the locality chosen by 
the instinct of the mother. But, on the contrary, 
the principle does not always hold in the case of those 
deposited in nests and excavations, and particularly as 
to those of ants and termites. The working ants, in- 
deed, carry the eggs from the top to the bottom of 
their galleries, according as the weather is favourable 
or unfavo\irable for hatching. The labourers of the 
white ants (Termites), again, attend their queen with 
the utmost care wlien she is laying ; for as she can- 
not then move about, they are under the necessity 
* latreille, HisUGener., xiv.; p, 342. 





of carrying off the eggs, as they are laid, to the 
nurseries. The extraordinary labour which this re- 
quires in the community may be understood, when, 
according to Smeathman, she lays 60 eggs in a 
minute, which will amount to 86,400 in a day, and 
31,536,000 in a year. The exceptions now men- 
tioned, however, do not in the least invalidate our 
general position. 



Cell of a qupon of the Termites belhcosi, broken open in front; 
the labourers surrounding the queen and carrying off her eggs. 


Another no less remarkable circumstance is the 
great weight, or specific gravity, of the eggs of in- 
sects. From numerous experiments we may venture 
to say that those of all the species which we have 
tried sink rapidly in water the moment they are 
thrown into it, from the egg of the drinker moth 
{Odojiesiis Puiatoria, Germar), which is nearly as 
large as a hemp-seed, to that of the rose-plant louse 
(^Aphis rosiE), which is so small as to be barely visible 
to the naked eye. Some eggs of the gipsey moth 
{Hypogymna dispar, Stephens), indeed, floated in 
water, because they were covered with down. It is 
well known, as we shall presently shew, that the dif- 
fusion of many of the seeds of plants is accomplished 
by the winged down with which they are clothed ; 




but the down upon the e^^s of insects does not 
conduce to this end. Whether insect ep;^s be naked 
or clothed with down, they are invariably, as far as 
their history has been invcstip^ated, deposited close to 
or upon substances capable of affording; food to the 
youngs when hatched. In making; experiments upon 
the specific g’ravity of egrg^s, it should be remembered 
that no infertile or uuimpregmated eg;g; will sink; 
for Ijaving; some hundreds of these laid by dif- 
ferent species of insects reared in our cabinet, 
we found, upon trial, that they uniformly floalcd, 
while those which w^e knew to be imprej^nated 
as uniformly sunk. A female, for example, of the 
rose-leaf roller (^Lozotamia Rosana, Stephens) 
was reared by us, in solitude, under an inverted 
wine-g;lass, upon the side of which she g*lued a 
patch of eg;gs, of course, unimpregnated : these, upon 
trial, all floated in water. But eggs of the same 
species taken from the outside of a pane of glass 
close to a rose-tree, all sunk in water ; and it is to be 
fairly presumed, as the parent of the latter was in a 
state of freedom, that these were impregnated. We 
found the same distinction, indeed, to hold in the 
eggs of the drinker moth, the gypsey moth, and 
numerous other insects^'. 

Dr. Good’s account of “ honey-dew,” which he 
describes as “ a peculiar haze or mist loaded with a 
poisonous miasm,” that stimulates “ the leaves of the 
hop to the morbid secretion of a saccharine and viscid 
juice” — appears to us unsupported by facts. Lin- 
ujEust, on the contrary, who w^as not wedded to the 
meteorological theory of a miasinatous haze, ascribes 
the honey-dew on the hop leaves to the caterpillar of 
the ghost moth (Hcpialiis Jii/myli) attacking the roots. 
Dr. Withering, favouring this account, recommends 
covering the roots with stones as a preventive ; for 

* J. R. t Quoted by Keith, Phys. Bot., ii. 143. 






the caterpillars, he avers, never attack wild hops 
which p^row in stony places, because they cannot 
get at the roots It appears to us, however, that 
there can be little doubt that tlie sweet syrupy 
coating, called honey-dew, found on the leaves of 
the hop, is nothing more than the excrement of 
the insect {Aphia fwmnU) whose propagation we 
arc discussing. “ The honey-dew,” says Loudon, 
“ moslly” (we believe always) “occurs after the crops 
have been attacked by these insects ’’ t- SirJ.E. 
Smith, who admits this to be the common cause of 
honey-dew, contends that what is found on the leaves 
of the beech is an exception; but he adduces no 
evidence at all satisfactory in proof of its being 
caused by unfavourable winds J ; while the undoubted 
fact of its being the excrement of aphides in so many 
other instances § weighs strongly against him. 

A novel theory of honey-dew has just been pub- 
lished by Mr. John Murray, who ascribes it to an 
electric change in the air. “ Last summer,’^ he 
says, “ we investigated the phenomenon with great 
care : the weather had been parched and sultry 
for some weeks previous, and the honey-dew pre- 
vailed to such an extent, that the leaves of the cur- 
rant, raspberry, &c., in the gardens, literally distilled 
from their tips a clear limpid honey-dew, excreted 
from the plant ; for the phenomenon was observable 
on those plants that were entirely free from aphides, 
and so copious was it, where these insects were 
found, that had their numbers been centuple they 
could not certainly have been the source of the sup- 
ply. The question with me, however, was set at rest 
by applying a lens, having previously washed and 

* Botan. Arrangement, ii,, 440, 3(1 ed. 

+ Encycl. of Agriculture, p. 86.5, s. 5444. 

:{: Introduction to Botany, p. 189. 

§ See Linn, Trans, vol, vi. and Willdenow, Princ. of Botany, p, 343. 

c 3 




dried the leaf by a sponp^e, for in this case the im- 
mediately excreted globules became apjiareut 

In all observations upon insects, and the other 
minute parts of creation, it is often exceedingly dif- 
ficult to distingiiisli between a cause and an effect. 
The question of the formation of honey-dew appears 
to us particularly liable to erroneous conclusions ; 
and we therefore venture to mention a few circum- 
stances which seem irreconcileable with Mr. Mur- 
ray’s ingenious theory. The hop fly {AphisJufmiili), 
we think, neither does, nor (for want of appropriate or- 
gans) can, feed on the honey-dew ; and if it did, this 
feeding would prove rather beneficial than otherwise to 
the plant, by clearing it from the leaves whose respira- 
tory functions it obstructs. So far from feeding on 
diseased plants, an aphis only selects the youngest 
and most healthy shoots, into the tender juicy parts 
of which it thrusts its beak {havMlvm)^ which in 
some species is much longer than the body, and no 
more fitted for lapping honey-dew than the bill of 
TEsop’s crane was for eating out of a shallow^ plate. 
In the experiment, tried by Mr. Murray, of wiping 
a leaf, might not the leaf have been previously 
wounded, perhaps, by the beak of some aphis, and 
hence the exudation of sap, not honey-dew? and 
may not the circumstance of his finding the lioney- 
dew on leaves where there were no aphides be 
accounted for on the principle that the aphides had 
abandoned, as they always do, the parts covered 
with their ejecta, unless these fell from insects on 
some over-hanging branch ? It is justly remarked 
by M. Sauvages, that they are careiul to eject the 
honey-dew to a distance from where they may be 
feeding t- We have now in our study a plant of 
the Chinese chrysanthemum {Aiithemis Artemisia 

? Treatise on Atmospherical Electricity, p. 14/, Lond. 1830. 
f Trans. Soc. Roy. Ue Montpellier. 





foUUy WiLLD.), the youn^ shoots of which have 
swarmed with aphides all the winter, and the leaves 
below are covered with honey-dew. We tried the 
experiment of wiping it off from a leaf, but no more 
was formed when it was protected by a })iece of 
writing-paper from the aphides above ; while the 
writinc^-paper became sprinkled all over with it in a 
few hours. By means of a lens, also, we have ac- 
tually seen the aphides ejectin«; the honey-dew * 

The almost instantaneous appearance of these 
destructive insects in frreat numbers at the same 
time, is taken notice of with wonder by almost every 
writer. This circumstance, it must be confessed, 
c;ives considerable ])lausibility to the notion of their 
bein^ broup:ht by winds, — for whence, we may be 
asked, could they otherwise come? Simply, \ve 
reply, from the e^<i's deposited the precedinc: autumn, 
which, having all been laid at the same time, and ex- 
posed to the same degrees of temperature, are of 
course all simultaneously hatched. In the case of 
the aphides, also, the fecundity is almost incalculable. 
Reaumur proved by experiment, that one aphis may 
be tlie progenitor of 5, 904,900, (K)0 descendants dur- 
ing its life; and Latreillc says, a female during 
the summer inontlis usually produces about twenty- 
live a day. Reaumur I’urther supposes, that in 
one year there may be twenty generations. We 
ourselves have counted more than a thousand 
aphides on a single leaf of the hop ; and in sea- 
sons when they are abundant — when every hop-leaf 
is peopled with a similar swarm — the number of 
eggs laid in autumn must be, to use the words of 
Good, “ myriads of myriads.” The preservation 
and hatching of these eggs in the ensuing spring 
must, it is obvious, depend on the weather and other 
* J.R. 






accidental circumstances, seldom appreciable by our 
most minute observations 
The history of other insects, erroneously referred to 
blighting winds, is more easily traced, from their 
bein^ of a larger size than the aphides. The cater- 
pillar, for example, of Lozoteenia Rosaiia, mentioned 
before, which rolls the leaf of the rose-tree, is one of 
this kind. It is well known as furnishing the common 
poetical comparison of “ a worm i* the bud.’’ Early 
in autumn the mother insect deposits an irregularly 
oval-patch of yellowish eggs, covered with a cement 



Two groups of eggs of the Rose-leaf roller yZoiona) 

on a pane of glass. 

* J. R. 





of the same colour, sometimes upon the branches of 
the rose-tree, but more frequently, as we have ob- 
served, upon some smooth object contiguous. For 
several successive seasons, we have found more than 
one ^roup of these e^p^s upon the p:lass panes, as 
well as the frame-work, of a window, beneath which 
a rose-tree has been trained. At present (January 
1830) there arc two of these groups on one pane, 
and three on the frame-work ; and as each contains 
about fifty eg'p;s, should they all be hatched, two 
or three hundred caterpillars would at once be let 
loose, and, streaming down simultaneously upon 
the rose-tree beneath, would soon devour the greater 
number of its buds. As this window faces the east, 
the sudden appearance of the insects would make 
it appear not unplausible that they had been swept 
hither by an easterly wind. 

We found, during the same winter, an extraor- 
dinary number of similar gro\ips of the eggs of a 
leaf-roller {hozolmnia Ribcana ?) on the branches of 
the gooseberry and red-currant, in a garden at Lee. 
On some small trees, from two to ten groups of eggs 
were discovered ; and as each group consisted of 
from thirty to fifty, a caterpillar might have been 
hatched for every bud. After the severity of the 
season was over, we had the piece of bark cut otf 
on which these eggs were attached ; and though they 
had been exposed on the bare branches to the intense 
frosts of 18*29-30, they were hatched in a few days 
after being brought into our study. As the currant- 
trees were not then come into leaf’, we had no Ibod 
to supply them with, and th<?y refused the leaves of 
all other plants which w^eotfered to them. Had they 
been permitted to remain on the trees till they were 
hatched, they would probably have not left a single 
leaf undevoured. For this spring, at least, these 
currant bushes will be safe from their attacks, and of 





course will set at defiance the supposed blighting 
winds, which no doubt will, as usual, be accused of 
peopling the adjacent gardens with caterpillars. It 
may be well to remark, that these caterpillars, when 
hatched, are scarcely so thick as a thread of sewing 
silk, and being of a greenish colour, they are not 
readily found on the leaves, the opening buds of 
which they gnaw to the very core 

It does not seem to have ever occurred to those 
who thus speak of insect-bearing winds, that they get 
rid of no difficulty by the suppositioa ; for where, we 
may ask, is the east or any other wind to take up 
the insects or eggs which it is said to drift along ? 
The equally sudden disappearance of insects all at 
once, which is also popularly attributed to winds, 
arises from their having arrived at maturity, and 
fulfilled the designs of Providence, by depositing 
their eggs for the ensuing season, when they all die, 
some in a few hours, though others survive for 
several days, but rarely for weeks. 

The sudden and simultaneous appearance of great 
numbers of frogs, snails, and other land animals, has 
given rise to the extravagant opinion that they have 
fallen in a shower from the clouds ; and some goodly 
theories have been devised to account for the pro- 
bable ascent of frog-spawn, and the eggs of snails, 
into the atmosphere by whirlwinds. The impossi- 
bility of this, in consequence of their specific gravity, 
is of course left out of consideration by the theorists. 
Our distinguished naturalist, Ray, when riding one 
afternoon in Berkshire, was much surprised at seeing 
an immense multitude of frogs crossing his path, and 
on looking into the adjacent fields he found that two 
or three acres of ground were nearly covered with 
them. They were all proceeding in the same direc- 
tion towards some woods and ditches ; and he traced 
* J.R. 





them back to the side of a very large pond, which, hi 
spawning time, he was informed, swarmed with 
countless numbers of fro^s. He naturally concluded, 
therefore, that, instead of having been precipitated 
from the clouds, they had been bred in the pond, from 
which they had been invited a short time before, by a 
refreshing shower, to go in quest of food Their 
great numbers will appear less marvellous, when we 
consider that a single frog spawns, as De Mont- 
beillard informs us, about 1300 eggs t* Were it not, 
indeed, for their numerous enemies, and their not 
being fit to propagate till they are three years old, 
the country would soon be overrun with these 
reptiles. We have more than once seen a similar 
legion of hair-worms {Gordii aqvatici, Linn.) in a 
garden at Lee, in Kent, every plant and spot of 
ground literally swarming with them. Their num- 
bers, however, were easily accounted for, as a stream 
at the bottom of the garden abounds with them, and, 
like frogs, they appear to be amphibious J. 

The errors of theory, as well as the mistakes of 
observers, swayed (unconsciously perhaps) by the 
influence of their theoretical opinions, may all be 
traced, we think, to the propensity of human nature 
to discover resemblances in things, which are after- 
wards magnified into close affinity, or even into 
identity. We are indebted to one of our best living 
entomologists, Mr, W. Mac Leay, for clearly point- 
ing out the broad distinction between analogy and 
affinity^. The supposed floating of the eggs of insects 
in the air thus appears to have originated in drawing 
an analogy from the seeds of plants ; though, from 
the facts we have stated, so far from there being any 

* Ray’s Wisdom of God in the Creation, p. 156. 
f Diet. Classique d’Hist. Nat., vii., p.495. J J. R, 

§ Horse Enlomologicsc, or Essays on Anuulose Animals, 8vo. 
London, 1819.21, 





analogy, there is no difference more marked than 
ill this very point — that the eggs of insects are, in 
most cases, fixed by a glue at the moment of ex- 
clusion, while the seeds of plants are uniformly 
diffusable and free. The fertile seeds of plants, 
it is true, are heavy enough to sink in water, and 
consequently as much unfitted for floating in the 
air as the eggs of insects ; but the contrivances to 
counteract this exemplify some of the most beautiful 
provisions of nature. The diffusion of the seeds of 
thistles, groundsel, dandelion, &c., by means of 
feathery down, attraets the notice of the most incuri- 
ous. Another contrivance of nature for eflecting the 
same purpose is not only curious in itself, but bears 
upon our present subject as illustrating an affinity 
which it may be supposed to have with the oviposit 
ing of certain insects. 

The seeds of the various species of violets are 
contained in a capsule of a single cell, or loculainent, 
consisting, however, of three valves. To the inner 
part of each of these valves a seed is attached, and 
it remains so for some time after the valves, in the 
process of ripening, have separated and stood open. 
The influence of the sun’s lieat causes the sides of 
each valve to shrink and collapse ; and in this state 
the edges press firmly upon the seed ; wliich, it may 
be remarked, is not only extremely smooth, polished, 
and shining, but regularly egg-shaped. Thus, when 
the collapsing edge of the valve slides gradually 
and forcibly down over the sloping part of the seed, 
it is tlirovvn with a jerk to a considerable distance. 
There is another part of the contrivance of nature for 
the same purpose, in the violaceie, worthy of remark. 
Before the seed is ripe, the capsule hangs in a droop- 
ing position, with the persisting calyx spread over it 
like an umbrella, to guard it from the rain and dews, 
which would retard the process of ripening ; but no 





sooner is the ripening completed, than the capsule 
becomes almost upris^ht, with the calyx for a support. 
This position appears to be intended by nature to ‘2:ive 
more effect to the valvular mechanism for scattering 
the seeds, as the capsule thus f^ains a higher ele- 
vation (in some cases more than an inch) from which 
to project them. Some ripe capsules of a fine variety 
of heart’s-ease (Viola tricolor), which I placed in a 
shallow ])asteboard box, in a drawer, were found to 
have projected their seeds to the distance of two feet. 
From the elevation of a capsule, therefore, at the top 
of a tall plant, these seeds might be projected twice 
or thrice that distance 

We may mention, as another very curious illustra- 
tion of the power in plants of discharging their seeds, 
the remarkable instance of a minute fungus (Sphaero- 
holm slellatua, Tode). This plant has the property 
of ejecting its seeds with great force and rapidity, 
and with a loud cracking noise ; and yet it is no 
bigger than a pin’s headf. 

The circumstance alluded to as analogous in in- 
sects to this admirable contrivance, occurs in the 
forcible discharge of the eggs of some species to a 
distance. The ghost moth (Jfcpialtis hintiuli), 
for example, ejects its minute black eggs with so 
much rapidity, that De Geer describes them as run- 
ning from the oviduct; and they are sometimes 
forcibly thrown out like pellets from a pop-gun J. 
‘‘ A friend of mine,” says Kirby, “ who had observed 
with attention the proceedings of a common crane- 
fly (Tijmla), assured me, that several females which 
he caught projected their eggs to the distance of 
more than ten inches §.” Another instance is men- 
* .T. 11. in Mag;, of Nat. Hist., i. 380. 

f For a minute account of this singular plant, see Grcville’s 
Scottish Cryptogamic Flora, No.xxxii. 

J De Geer, Mem. des Insectes, iv., 494, 

$ Kirby and Spence, Intr, iii, GQ, 



tioiied by the Abbe Preaiix, of a four- winged fly, 
called by him, Mouche batiste^ which, when caught, 
jets out its eggs at intervals, as if by the jerk of a 
spring 

The apparent analogy, however, between these in- 



A, Plants of Spheeroholus, natural size. B, magnified view. 

C, sectional view, with the seed just previous to projection. D, 
the seed in the act of projection. K,a plant imnjediately after 
projection j a, the seed } b & line indicating its course. 

? Diet. Classique d’Hist. Nat., Art. Mouches Balistes. The 
words are “ Insecte si quatre ailes, qui lance ses oeufs 2l diverses 
reprises, et comme par ua ressort, iorsqu'on le saiiit” 





sects and the plants which discharge their seeds, 
will disappear, when we consider that the scattering 
of the seeds is, in the plants, a regular and con- 
stant process of nature; whereas the insects only 
jet out their eggs from fear when caught. The 
power of throwing their eggs to a distance, indeed, 
could be of no possible use to insects, because they 
possess the more efficient power of locomotion. 

The facts which we have thus stated with regard 
to the seeds of plants being diffused by the means 
of winged down, or by the more remarkable capacity 
of being projected, differ, as we have shewn, in some 
important circumstances from the nearly similar 
arrangement of Nature in the economy of insects. 
They constitute affinities, but not analogies. On the 
other hand, the more universal law of the conti- 
nuance of insect life by every new generation being 
hatched from eggs, may be illustrated by an analogy, 
which is observed even in the most minute instances, 
in the generation of plants from seeds. 

The diffusion of the seeds of an extensive order 
of plants {Cryptogamicp, Acotyledones, Joss., 

Cellulares, De Candolle) being so universal, and 
the seeds (^sponiles) themselves being so minute as 
to elude common observation, the phenomena thence 
arising have, like the sudden appearance of newly 
hatched insects, given some colour to the doctrine of 
spontaneous generation. We may see this exem- 
plified every day on brick walls recently built, even if 
they be covered with a smooth coat of cement. The 
first indication of vegetable life on such a wall, par- 
ticularly in parts exposed to the trickling down of 
rain water, is that of a green silky-looking substance, 
having somewhat the appearance of a coat of green 
paint, Mr. Drummond, of the Cork Botanic Garden, 
by accurately watching the progress of this green 
matter, which had been unsuccessfully investigated 




by Priestley, Ingenhouz, and Ellis, and had been 
mistaken by Linnai\is for a crop of byssi, ascer- 
tained beyond question that it always consisted of 
the minute buds of common mosses, such as the wall 
screw moss (Tortvla mvralis) and the common 
hair-hood moss (Polytrichum commune) *. At 
Glasgow, we have repeatedly remarked, that on the 
walls of houses, built with freestone raised from a 
quarry more tliaii a hundred feet under the surface 
of the soil, the whole exterior would, in the course 
of one mouth, appear as green as if painted, with 
these innumerable germinating mosses f. 

The germination of mosses on walls appears to 
arise from the seeds {sporulcs) being carried into the 
air. Tliis process is facilitated by their extreme 
minuteness and their comparative lightness, for they 
do not sink in water like the seeds of phenogamous 
plants and the eggs of insects, as appears from their 
germinating on the surface of stagnant water as 
frequently as on walls. In low situations, the mode 
in which the seeds of cryptogamie plants are diffused 
is well exemplified in the puff-ball (Ly coper don) ^ 
which, when ripe, explodes its sporules in the form 
of a smoke-like cloud. Mosses again, which grow 
on trees and walls, if they do not thus explode their 
sporules, must drop them into the air ; and, as they 
chiefly ripen early in spring, the winds which then 
prevail will scatter them to considerable distances. 
But we only state this as a highly probable inference 
from Drummond’s discovery : to detect these all but 
invisible seeds boating in the atmosphere, and trace 
them in their passage from the parent plant to the wall 
or tree where they begin to germinate, we think is 
hardly ])ossible. 

If the doctrine be sound, that every plant arises 
from seed, we must either believe that innumerable 

# Linn. Trans. J. R. 






mosses are wafted to the walls throug^h the air, or 
adopt the hypothesis that they have existed for cen- 
turies in the interior of the rocks of the quarry. That 
it is not impossible the seeds may have existed in the 
rocks several curious facts would lead us to believe. 
Some seeds, for example, retain the power of germi- 
nating^ for an indefinite length of time ; since the 
wheat usually wrapt up with Egyptian mummies will 
often germinate and grow, as well as if it had been 
gathered the preceding harvest. It also bears upon 
this subject, that when a piece of ground, which has 
never been tilled, is turned up by the spade or the 
plough, it immediately becomes covered with a crop of 
annuals, not one of which may grow within many 
miles of the spot; and a number of them, such as 
hedge mustard (Sisymbriitm officinale) and chick- 
weed {Alsine media)^ whose seeds are not winged. 
It is no less worthy of remark that all these annuals 
will again disa])pear as soon as the grass is suffered 
to spread over the spot which has been dug up. It is 
mentioned by Mr. James Jennings, in Time’s Tele- 
scope for 1823, that the coltsfoot (Ttmilago farfar a) 
is usually the first plant which appears in England in 
such cases — a circumstance by no means remarkable, 
as the seeds of this plant are winged with down, and 
extremely light. 

A still more minute family of cryptogarnic plants, 
and consequently more diilicult to trace, is well known 
by the popular name of mould or mouldiness 
cedines, Linn.) This, Adolphe Brongniart justly 
remarks, is, in one of its groups, nearly allied to the 
puff-balls {Lycoperda), whose mode of diffusing their 
seeds we have just described. When mould is 
examined by the microscope it is seen to resemble 
these ; and sometimes various fungi are, when 
mature, filled with a blackish dust, supposed to be 
the seed. Micheli, of Florence, an eminent botanist, 



resolved to try whether this supposed seed would 
grow if sown on vegetable substances, and found 
that it did so. On his experiments bein^ repeated 
at Bologna, however, it was discovered that the mould 
^rew equally well where none of the black powder 
liad been sown ; but Spallanzani, by more accurate 
attention, confirmed the conclusion of Micheli. He 
collected a great quantity of the dust, and, taking a 
number of pieces of moistened bread, apples, pears, 
gourds, &c., sowed some thickly, others sparingly, 
and others not at all. The result was, that on the 
unsown substances the mould did appear, but several 
days later, and then greatly less in quantity, than on 
the sown substances; while of these two, the pieces 
thickly sown had more than double the quantity of 
the pieces thinly sown, though, when it came up 
thick, it did not grow so tall. 



Miproscopu’ views of apple and pear mould. A A, Tart of a 
shrivflled apple, covered with mould on the inside, a a a a, se- 
veral of the individual mould plants hijfhly niajinified. fc, a 
branched one. r d, seed-vessels, one biir.stinfi: and scatlering; I la 
seed, c,'* one nnishrooin- shaped. /, a jiortion of pear mould, 
of a branched form. 

We were much struck last autumn (1829), upon 
cutting an apple asunder, to find in the seed-cells a 




copious growth of the mould with the slender stems 
and globular heads figured by Spallanzani. Mould 
upon an apple is not indeed wonderful ; but the one 
in question was not only large, but apparently sound 
throughout. Whence, then, came the seeds of this 
mould in the very core of the apple ? We have also 
met with mould of a different species, resembling the 
green mould on the rind of oranges (Acrosporium 
fasciadatvm, Greville), even on the kernels of nuts, 
when there was no opening save the minute pores 
in the shell. Through these pores, then, after 
being stripped ofthehusk that covered them, the seed 
of this nut-mould must have entered. This, how- 
ever, will not account for the mould in the apple ; 
the seed of which, we think, must have been intro- 
duced while it was in embryo, in some such way as 
the seeds of the subcortical fungi so abundant on 
dead leaves and branches of trees. This again 
may be illustrated by the curious facts respecting 
substances found in the interior wood of trees. Sir 
John Clark, for example, tells us that the horns of 
a large deer were discovered in the heart of an oak in 
Whirificid Park, Cumberland, fixed in the timber 
with large iron cramps, with which, of course, it 
had at first been fastened on the outside *, The 
eminent naturalist, Adarison, on visiting Cape 
Verd, was struck with the venerable aspect of a tree 
fifty feet ill circumference; and recollecting having 
read in some old voyages that an inscription had 
been made upon such a tree, he was induced to 
search for this by cutting into the wood, and, mar- 
vellous to say, he actually found it under 300 layers 
of woodt I De Candolle, one of the greatest living 
botanists, remarked “ a frost-bitten part in the 
wood of a tree, cut down in 1800, in the forest of 

* Phil. Trans, vol. xli.,p. 448. 

t Adanson, Voyages -i Senegal. 





Fontainebleau. This bein^ covered with 91 layers 
of wood, indicated that the accident occurred in 
1709, so remarkable for a severe frost*/* With these 
facts before us, we think the introduction of the seed 
of the mould into the centre of the apple by no 
means so unaccountable as at first view it appeared. 
Be this as it may, we tried, with the seed gathered 
from this apple-mould, similar experiments to those 
of Spallanzani, with results precisely similar to his; 
and being in this way able at pleasure to produce 
mould of tlie mine species by sowing, we are entitled 
to conclude that all mould arises from seed, other- 
wise nature must produce the same effect from dis- 
similar causes, which is contrary to the first principles 
of sound j)hilosopliy t. 

* Conv. on Veg. Physiol., i. 59. f J. R. 





Physiology of Insects* Eggs. — Their Colour, Structure, Shape, Size, , 
and Number. 


It was a notion of Darwin’s, (much more in- 
g;ciiious and plausible than his metamorphoses of 
shell-fish into birds,) that the variety in the colours 
of C2'^s, as well as the colours of many animals, is 
adapted to the purposes of concealment from their 
natural enemies. Thus, he says, the snake, the wild 
cat, and the leopard, arc so coloured as to resemble 
dark leaves and their lighter interstices ; birds re- 
semble the colour of the brown ground or the 
green hedges which they frequent; while moths 
and butterflies are coloured like the flowers which 
they rob of their honey*. By following up this 
curious theory, Gloger, a German naturalist t, has 
remarked, that those birds whose eggs are of a 
bright or conspicuous colour instinctively conceal 
their nests in the hollows of trees, never quit them 
except during the night, or sit immediately after they 
have laid one or two eggs. On the other hand, in the 
case of birds who build an exposed nest, the colours 
of the eggs are less attractive. Amongst birds whose 
eggs are perfectly white — the most conspicuous of 
all colours, — he instances the kingfisher {Ala do'), 
which builds in a hole in a river’s bank; the 
woodpecker (Pzews), which builds in the hole of 
a tree ; and the swallow {Hirundo domestica), whose 

• Zoonomia, Sect. 39, p. 248, 3d.ed., and Botan. Garden, note 
on Ru*)ia. 

t Verhand, der Gesellsch. Naturforscli, Freundc. Berlin, 
1824. 


 


nest has a very small openinp^: while owls and 
hawks, which scarcely quit their nests in the day, 
and pijreons, which only lay one or two ep^gs and sit 
immediately after, have also white eg^s. The bright- 
blue, or bright-green egg, again, belongs to birds 
which build in holes, as the starling {Sturnus vulgaris)^ 
or which construct their nests of green moss, or place 
them in the midst of grass, but always well covered. 
Almost all singing birds, he alleges, lay eggs of a 
dull or dark ground, and variously speckled; and 
they for the most part build open nests with mate- 
rials similar in colour to the eggs, so that no evi- 
dent contrast is presented which might lead to 
their discovery and destruction. We may add 
from Darwin the examples of the hedge-sparrow 
{Accentor modidaris)^ whose eggs are greenish blue, 
as are those of magpies and crows, which are seen 
from beneath in wicker nests, between the eye and 
the blue of the firmament^. 

As this theory is but indirectly connected with 
our subject, we cannot here spare room to examine 
it ; but we may remark, that it appears to us much 
more beautiful and ingenious than true : for we 
could enumerate more instances in which the prin- 
ciple fails than holds good. Gloger’s instances 
also are far from accurate ; for though the king- 
fisher, for example, hides her shining white eggs in 
a hole, yet that will not conceal them from the 
piercing eyes of their chief enemy, the water rat, which, 
like all burrowing animals, can see with the least 
possible liffht. Many birds, also, which lay bright- 
coloured eggs, make open nests ; the thrush, for ex- 
ample, whose clear-blue eggs, with a few black 
blotches, arc far from being concealed by the plaster- 
ing of clay and cow-dung upon which they are de- 
posited. The green-finch {Fringilla chloris, Tem- 

* See also St. Pierre, Studies of Nature, ii., 393 ; Note, 





minck)) again, which builds an open nest of green 
moss, lined with horsehair, black or white as it can 
be had, lays clear white eggs with red spots, pre- 
cisely like those of the common wren and the willow 
wren (Sylvia Trochilus), which build covered nests 
with a small side-entrance ; while the house-sparrow 
(Fringilla domesiica) lays eggs of a dull, dirty 
green, streaked with dull black, and always builds in 
holes or under cover. These objections will render 
it unnecessary for us to follow Darwin into his 
fanciful account of the origin of the colour of eggs, 
which he ascribes to the colour of the objects amongst 
which the mother bird chiefly lives acting upon the 
shell through the medium of the nerves of the eye ; 
for, if this were correct, we should have the green- 
finch and the red-breast, instead of their white eggs, 
laying blue ones like the hedge-sparrow and the fire- 
tail. 

Upon a partial view of the subject, we might bring 
many facts to support the theory from the colour of 
the eggs of insects. The nettle butterflies, for ex- 
ample, the small tortoise shell (Vanessa TJrticcd)^ 
the peacock (V, lo), and the admirable (V. Atalanta)^ 
all lay eggs of a green colour, precisely similar in 
tint to the plant to which they are attached. On the 
contrary, the eggs of the miller moth (Apatela Le- 
porina, Steph.), which are. deposited on the grey 
bark of the willow, are light purple ; another beautiful 
geometric moth (Geometra illtfnaria), which Sepp^ 
calls Herculesje, lays its light pink eggs in the fissures 
of the bark of the elm ; the puss moth (Cerura vin uld) 
lays shining brown eggs on the green leaf of the pop- 
lar ; and the garden white butterfly (Pontia Brassicee) 
lays a group of yellow ones on a green cabbage or cole- 
wort leaf, but not of so bright a yellow as those of 
the seven-spot ladybird (Coccinella Septempunctatd)^ 
? Sepp, der Wonderen Gods, Tab. 35. 





patches of which may be found on many sorts of 
leaves during the summer months. 

The immediate origin of colour in the eggs of in- 
sects is in some cases the inclosed yolk shining 
through the transparent shell; but in others, the 
shell is not uniformly transparent, but ringed, banded, 
or dotted with o])acities of various colours. In the 
eggs of the drinker moth {Odoimtis poLatorid), for 
example, there are two circular rings of a green 
colour, from the green yolk appearing through the 
shell ; while the rest of the shell is white and opaque, 
as we have proved by dissection^. Certain ruddy 
spots on the white eggs of the small rhinoceros 
beetle (Oryctes nasicornis, Illiger) were discovered 
by Swammerdam to be the red mandibles and spi- 
racles of the unhatched grub seen through the shell ; 
and the white ground, we infer, was similarly caused 
by the body of the grubf. This, however, cannot 
be the origin of the bright red spots on the beautiful 
yellow egg of the brimstone moth (Rimiia era- 
tcBgata^ Duponchel), which may, perhaps, have a 
similar origin to those of birds. 

With respect to the eggs of birds, it has been re- 
marked by Mr. Knapp j, that in those “ of one hue, 
the colouring matter resides in the calcareous part ; 
but where there are markings, these are rather ex- 
traneous to it than mixed wdth it. The elegant blue 
that distinguishes the eggs of the fire-tail {Sylvia 
phccnicuniSj Lath.), and of the hedge-sparrow, 
though corroded away, is not destroyed by muriatic 
acid. The blue calcareous coating of the thrush’s 
egg is consumed ; but the dark spots, like the 
markings on the eggs of the yellow-hammer, house- 
sparrow, magpie, &c., still preserve their stations on 

* J.R. 

f Swammerdam, Book of Nature, i. 13- 
I Journal of a Naturalist, p. 230. 



 


the film, thongch loosened and rendered mucilaginous 
by this rough process. Though this calcareous mat- 
ter is partly taken up during incubation, the mark- 
ings upon these eggs remain little injured even to 
the last;, and are almost as strongly defined as when 
the eggs are first laid. These circumstances seem 
to imply, that the colouring matter on the shells of 
eggs does not contribute to the various hues of the 
plumage; but, it is reasonable to conclude, are de- 
signed to answer some particular object not obvious 
to us: for though the marks are so variable, }et the 
shadings and spottings of one species never wander 
so as to become exactly figured like those of another 
family, but j)rescrve year after }ear a certain charac- 
teristic figuring.” 

Most of these remarks will a]>ply to the colours of 
the eggs of insects : but though we can in most in- 
stances trace no connexion between the colours of 
eggs and the perfect insect, there is a striking ex- 
ception in the egg of the brimstone moth mentioned 
above, which corresponds exactly in colour with the 
wings of the moth, though the caterpillar is of a dull 
brown. 

The eggs of insects, like those of birds, have a 
shell enclosing the germ of the caterpillar with a 
peculiar matter for its nourishment, like the white 
and yolk of a bird’s egg, provided lor the nourish- 
ment of the contained chick. Tliese several parts, 
however, are very dilferent in substance from the 
eggs of birds. The shell of the bird’s egg is brittle, 
opake, chiefly composed of chalk {carboiialc of 
lime), and lined with a very thin tough membrane ; 
while in the egg of an insect the shell is not brittle, 
is transparent, contains no lime (for it is not per- 
ceptibly acted upon by diluted sulphuric acid), and 
no lining membrane can be detected. It aj)pears, 
indeed, very similar to the transparent ])ortion of a 






goose-quill in the eggs of the drinker and other 
moths which we have dissected * ; but in the eggs 
which are deposited in moist places, and in those of 
spiders, it is extremely thin t- The eggs of saw-flies, 
ants, &c., which grow larger, as we shall afterwards 
show, during the process of hatching, must possess 
an expansible shell to allow of their enlargement. 
The yolk and white in the eggs of birds are 
separated from each other by a very fine membran- 
ous bag in which each is contained ; but in the 
eggs of insects, what answers to the yolk consists 
ol' distinct minute globules, which float in the 
white, if we may call it so, for it does not, as we 
have ascertained, coagulate in boiling water. The 
eggs of* the gypsey moth {JTypogyvma dispar), which 
we boiled, still continued partly fluid, though the 
brown matter answering to the yolk was considerably 
thickened. The portion which does not thicken by 
boiling most probably forms the first internal fluids 
of the caterj)illar, answering to the blood of quadru- 
peds. The point where the caterpillar originates, 
— answering to the scar (Cicafricvla) in the eggs of 
birds, — we can readily distinguish even by the naked 
eye in the larger sj)ecies of eggs, as it lies always 
immediately under the shell “ Having directed,’* 
says the younger Huber, “ my close attention to the 
eggs of ants, 1 remarked that they were of different 
sizes, shades, and forms. The smallest were white, 
opa(jue, and cylindrical; the largest, transparent, 
and slightly arched at both ends ; while those of 
a middle size were semi-trans])arent. On holding 
them up to the light 1 observed a sort of white ob- 
long cloud ; in some, a trans[)arent point might be 
remarked at the superior extremity ; in others, a 
clear zone above and underneath the little cloud. The 
largest presented a single opaque and whitish point 
* J. li. f Kirby and Spence, Intr. 8G. 





in their interior. There were some whose whole 
body was so remarkably clear as to allow of ray 
very distinctly observing^ the rings. On fixing atten- 
tion more closely upon the latter, I observed the egg 
open, and the larva appear in its place. Having 
compared these eggs with those just laid, 1 con- 
stantly found the latter of a milky whiteness, com- 
pletely opaque, and smaller by one-half, so that I 
had no reason to doubt of the eggs of ants receiving 
a very considerable increase in size ; that in elong- 
ating they become transparent, but do not at this 
time disclose the form of the grub, which is always 
arched^.” 

The germ in the egg of the garden spider {Epeira 
diadeina) is described by the accurate Heroldt, as 
appearing to the eye in form of a minute white point 
immediately under the shell, and in the centre of the 
circumference. On examining this j>oint more nar- 
rowly, it is found to be of a lenticular shape, and 
composed of innunierable whitish granulations of a 
globular form, difiering only from the globules of the 
yolk in being smaller and more opaque, as may be 
seen by squeezing out the contents ot a spider’s egg 
into a watch-glass. The most singular circumstance 
observed by Heroldt was, that in some species of 
spiders an egg appeared to have a considerable 
number dispersed u])on different ])oints of the surface ; 
but all these ultimately united into a single germ t. 

The eggs of the gl(»w-worm (^Lampyris noctlluca), 
as we ascertained from those dej)Osited by one which 
we found in 1829, at Rudesheim, on the Rhine, are 
golden yellow, somewhat resembling cherry-tree 
gum, while the internal substance is similar in con- 

’i' M. P. Huber on Ants, p. G8. 

f Heroldt, Exercit. dc Generat. Aranearuin in Ovo, and bis 
Unters. iiber die liildung der Wizbelloiscu Tliiere ini Eie. 




sistencc to the wax of the ears, and in form of 
g^ranules which are even externally apparent 

We are accustomed to consider the form of e^p^s 
so nearly rep^ular, that the epithet “ ep^p^-shaped” is 
frequently applied to other things, and is well under- 
stood ; but the eggs of insects, tliough most com- 
monly round, are seldom, like those of birds, 
smaller at one end than at the other, while they often 
exhibit forms never seen in the eggs of birds, — such 
as cylindric, flat, depressed, compressed, prismatic, 
angular, s(juare, boat-shajjed &c. These varieties 
of form are justly referred by Kirby and Sj^ence to 
the “ manifold wisdom” (-TroXvTroiKiXos fTo(J)iu) + of the 
Creator; but we have some hesitation in admit- 
ting their limitation of this to his “ will to vary 
forms, and so to glorify his wisdom and power in- 
dependently of other considerations §,” and think it 
would be more truly philosophic to confess our igno- 
rance where we cannot exjdain what is above our com- 
j)rehension. Paley, indeed, says, such facts “ might in- 
duce us to believe that t^arieiy itself, distinct from every 
other consideration, was a motive in the mind of the 
Creator, or with the agents of his will but he imme- 
diately adds, “ to this great variety in organized life the 
Deity has given, or j)erhaps there arises out of it, a 
corresponding variety of animal appetites, and did 
all animals covet the same element, retreat, or food, 
it is evident how much fewer could be sup])lied and 
accommodated, than w hat at present live conveniently 
together, and find a ])lentiful subsistence ||.” The 
latter remark, we think, completely destroys the 
former, and it will lead us to what appears to be 

* J. R. 

+ Dumcril, Consider G^nerales, p. 49 ; and Insect Aichitccture, 
p. 19. 

X Kplies. iii. 10. J Inlrod,, iii. p. 95. 

II Natural Theology, p. 345, 14tli ed. 





the true cause of ttie varied forms of the e^gs of 
insects. 



The cause of the eggs of birds being nearly the 
same in shape, arises, we should say, from the similar 
forms of the animals themselves ; while insects being 
much more varied in shape, require corresponding 
varieties in the forms of their eggs. The ostrich, 
the eagle, and the wren, for example, ditfer much 
more in size than in their general form ; but the 
earwig, the garden- spider, butterflies, beetles, and 
grasshoppers, dilier much more in form than in size, 
and consequently recpiire eggs of varying forms to 
contain their progeny. We confess, however, that 
we cannot always trace the mathematical causes of 
these diversities of form in the eggs of insects ; for 
though there prevails a general resemblance in those 
families and groups the most nearly allied, yet in 
others, even the sj)ecies of the same genus exhibit 
diflerences which cannot be thus accounted for. In 
two species of Vanesm, for instance, the small and 
the great tortoise-shell butterflies, which differ in 
little but size, the egg of the small is cylindric with 
eight ])rominent ribs, while that of the great is 
shaped liked a Florence flask, and quite smooth and 
uniform 

The ribbing of the eggs of the small tortoise-shell 
? der Wonderen Godb, Tab, ii. and \iii. 

£ 3 





butterfly (Vanessa urticee)^ which is also found on 
those of most of the species, leads us to remark that 
insect ec^^s are frequently sculptured in a very beau- 
tiful manner, far out-rivallinc; in elegance of design 
and delicacy of workmanship the engravings which 
we sometimes see on eggs brought from India and 
China. Some of them, when seen through a microscope, 
remind us of the fine crustaceous shells called sea- 
eggs, — a resemblance which is well exemplified in the 
egg of the angle-shades moth (Phlo^ojihora meti- 
ciUosa^ Stephens), as compared with the Clyjieaster 
of Parkinson. 



a, og;!? of the antjh'-shades inotli (^P/ilot/Dphora metiva- 

losa ) ; b, sea-egg (^Olf/pcasfcr)^ natural size. 


These channellings appear to correspond in most 
cases with the rings of the caterpillar to be hatched 
from the egg ; but the design of the other sculptures 
on these eggs has not yet been discovered by the 
investigations of naturalists, and may, probably, for 
ever elude human penetration. But though we 
cannot tell why an insect’s egg is so tastefully carved, 
we can admire the minute delicacy and extraordinary 
regularity of the markings. The egg of the meadow 
brown butterfly (Hipparchia Jurfina) crowned at 
the upper end with sculptured work in the form of 
tiles or slates, as if to defend it from injury, while 
others arc covered with a sort of net-work of ex- 
tremely minute six-sided meshes. 






fl, the of tlu* in(*H(lo\v hrowii-lnitk'rlly, inaf^iiitied ; />, egg of 
the brim s>loDi‘- moth (liumin (’rataujata), maguiHctl. 


The desifl^ii of the appeiidac^es to some sort of 
is much more apparent, and affords us some 
admirable illustrations of prospective contrivance. 
The ef!:^s of the ephemera', for example, are smooth 
and oblong, resembling carraway comfits, a form 
which Swammerdam proved to be admirably adapted 
for diffusing them through the water, where, he says, 
they are dropt by the mother insect. For this pur- 
pose he placed “ a few of them on the point of a 
knife, and letting them tall gently into water, they 
immediately separated of themselves in a very curious 
manner*.” The same accurate observer describes a 
very remarkable apiiendage in the egg of the water 
scorpion {Nepa cinerca, Linn.), an insect by no 
means rare in Britain. This egg is furnished with 
a coronet of seven bristles disposed like the down 
on the seed of the blessed thistle, (^Cejitanrea 
henedicta, Willdenow) ; and before they are de- 
posited these bristles closely embrace the egg next 
to them in the ovary like a sort of sheath, as if a 
chain of thistle-seeds were formed, by placing each 
successively in the bosom of the down of the one 
next to it. As the mother insect deposits these eggs 
in the stems of aquatic plants, the bristles, which are 
partly left on the outside, are probably intended to 
# Swamm. Book of Nature, i. 104. 





prevent the aperture from bein^ closed up by the 
rapid growth of the plant. 

Reaumur g-ives an interesting* description of a 
similar egg deposited F)y a common dnng-fly, of a 
yellowish-orange colour, (Scafop/ia^ci stercoraria^ 
Meigen). These eggs are furnished at the upper 
end with two divergent ])cgs, whicli prevent them 
from sinking into the dung where they are placed by 
the parent, while they are permitted to enter suffi- 
ciently far to preserve them moist. Both circum- 
stances are indispensable to their hatching; for 
when Reaumur took them out of the dung, they 
shrivelled up in a few hours, and when he immersed 
them farther than the two pegs, they were suffocated, 
and could not afterwards be hatched 



a, Uiing-fly {Scatophajja Stervoraria ) he, front and side 
views of its cp;g;s inajjailied j d d d, a munber of these eg^gs 
deposited in covv-dnng. 


Before we began to study the habits of insects, we 
found upon a lilac-twig, in the neighbourhood of 
London, a singular production, which we look for a 
very delicate fungus, and suj)j)osing it not to be 
common, we carefully preserved the specimens ; but 
we have since learned, with no little surprise, that 
these are the eggs of the lace-winged fly, {Chryfiopa 
reticulata^ Leach). Reaumur says that several 
naturalists have described them as fungi, which is 
not to be wondered at ; for they consist of a small 
oval greenish-white head, similar to the apple-mould. 


* Reaumur, iv. 379. 






with a white transparent stem, more than an 
inch hi^h, not thicker than a human hair, but much 
more stiff and rifrid. About a dozen of these e^^s 
are deposited in a sinorle and sometimes in a double 
line, upon the leaves and branches of elder or other 
trees and plants aboundinp^ with aphides, upon which 
the grubs feed when hatched. The footstalks of 
these eggs are formed by the mother-fly attaching a 
drop of gluten to the branch, and drawing it out 
(as a spider does its line) to the requisite length 
before the egg is deposited on its summit. As she 
uses her body for a measure, the footstalks are by 
consequence all nearly of equal length. It is evi- 
dently the design of these footstalks to place the eggs 
out of the reach of the grubs of lady-birds (Coc- 
cinellm) and of aphidivorous flies (Syrphi)y which 



Twipf of lil.if, boaring tlio etrgs of tho lac<Mvinq:(‘il fly (C/uysopa 
reticulata, LiCACu ). The fly ib ^eeu renting ou tlie lowest leaf. 






frequent the same situations and rnifs^ht devour them. 
The footstalks are so smooth and slender that these 
grubs could not climb them, as we have proved by 
experiment *, 

The ichneumon fly {Ophion luteum), whose larvfE 
feed upon the caterpillar of the puss-moth, also 
deposits eggs with a footstalk ; and what is most 
singular, these larvae, after they are hatched, during 
the first stage of their existence, continue attached 
to the shells of their eggs. It is not till the puss 
has formed her cocoon that they devour her, and spin 
their own cocoons under its covert. 

The eggs of insects do not seem to hold any 
regular proportion, so far as regards size, with their 
parent insects ; for some large moths lay very small 
eggs, while others of a small size lay eggs consi- 
derably larger. Kirby and Spence think it probable 
that eggs which produce, females are generally larger 
than male eggs ; with the exception of the hive-bee, 
in which the reverse takes place. Huber, as we 
have seen above, found the eggs of ants of different 
sizes, from which he was led to discover that they 
increase in size after being deposited. 

It has been remarked, that animals of prey are less 
prolific than those which live on vegetable food ; 
and a similar principle a})pears to hold to a certain 
extent amongst insects, the most prolific families 
belonging, with few exceptions, to those which devour 
vegetable or animal substances beginning to decay 
and putrefy. 

Thus it is that the eagle lays only two eggs, 
while the wren lays eight, and the pheasant twenty- 
four; and in the same way the dragon-flies (Libellu- 
ILna, Mac Leay), do not lay above two dozen eggs, 
the lace-winged flies {Hein/'robidce) still fewer, and 
the noontide fly {McHcnibruia meridiana, Meigen) 

* J, K. f See Insect Architecture; pp. 1115—325; 6. 






only deposits two eg’g’s ; while a single plant-louse 
{Aphis), as we mentioned before from Rt^aumur, 
may be the living progenitor of 5,904,900,000 de- 
scendants, and the queen of the warrior white ants 
{Terrnes hellicosus, Smeathm.), produces 31,536,000 
eggs in one year. 

We may illustrate this subject by an extract exem- 
plifying the proportionate fecundity of the animal king- 
dom in general. “ Compared with the rest of ani- 
mated nature,” says Dalyell, “ infusion animalcula 
are surely the most numerous : next are worms, in- 
sects, or fislies ; amphibia and serpents, birds, quad- 
rupeds ; and last is man. The human female produces 
only one at a time, that after a considerable interval 
from birth, and but few during her whole existence. 
Many quadrupeds are subject to similar laws ; some 
are more fertile, and their fecundity is little, if at all, 
inferior to that of certain birds, for they will produce 
ten or twenty at once. Several birds will breed fre- 
quently in a year, and have more than a single egg 
at a time. How prodigious is the ditiereiice, on de- 
scending to fishes, am])hibia, reptiles, insects, and 
worms! Yet among them the numbers cannot be 
more different. According to naturalists, a scorpion 
will produce sixty-five young ; a common fly will lay 
144 eggs ; a leech, 150; and a spider, 170. I have 
seen a hydrachna j)roduce 600 eggs, and a female 
moth 1100. A tortoise, it is said, will lay 1000 eggs, 
and a frog 1100. A gall insect lias laid 5000 eggs ; a 
shrimp, 6000 ; and 10,000 have been found in the 
ovary, or what is supposed to be that part, of an 
ascarides. One naturalist found above 12,000 eggs 
in a lobster, and another above 21,000. An insect 
very similar to an ant {Mvtilla?) has produced 
80,000 in a single day ; and Leeuwenhoeck seems 
to compute four millions in a crab. Many fishes, 
and those which in some countries seldom occur, 





produce incredible numbers of ep^g;s. Above 36,000 
have been counted in a herrinsf ; 38,000 in a smelt ; 
1,000,000 in a sole ; 1,130,000 in a roach ; 3,000,000 
in a species of sturgeon ; 342,000 in a carp ; 
383,000 in a tench ; 546,000 in a mackerel ; 992,000 
in a perch ; and 1,357,000 in a flounder. But of all 
fishes hitherto discovered, the cod seems the most 
fertile. One naturalist computes that it produces 
more than 3,686,000 e^^s; another 9,000,000 ; and 
a third 9,444,000. Here, then, are eleven fishes, 
which probably, in the course of one season, will 
produce above thirteen millions of eg^s ; which is a 
number so astonishinc^ and immense, that, without 
demonstration, we could never believe it true^'.’' 

The fecundity of insects is no less remarkable than 
that of Ashes. In some instances, particularly in 
those already mentioned, the numbers ])roduced from 
the eg'gs of a siuirle female, far exceed the progeny 
of any other class of animals. It is this extraor- 
dinary fecundity which, under favourable circum- 
stances, produces countless swarms of insects that 
give origin to the opinion of their being sponta- 
neously generated by imtrcfactiou, or brought in 
some mysterious way by blighting winds. The 
numerous accidents, however, to which insects are 
exposed from the deposition of the eg'g till their Anal 
transformation, tend to keep their numbers from 
becoming excessive, or to reduce them when they 
are at any time more than commonly numerous. 

Introd. Observ. to Spallanzani, xiv. 





Matornnl Carn of Inserts in deposltinp their Efi-jrg. — Solitary Bees. — 
'W.isps. — Ichneumons. — Moths. — Butterflies. — Gnats. — Mistakes of In- 
stinct. 


Lord Katmes, in his ‘Gentleman Farmer/ men 
tions tlie singular fact that tlie female sheep, weeks 
before yeaning', selects some sheltered spot where 
she may drop her lamb with the most comfort and 
security ; and when forcibly prevented from gr<-)inp^ 
there, she manifests the utmost uneasiness. But 
this instance of prospectively ])roviding for a future 
progeny is exemplified much more strikingly in most 
insects, in conse(|uence of the great difference of 
their economy compared with that of other animals. 
The .shee[) and other mammalian (piadrupeds suckle 
their young, and watch over them with the most 
affectionate care during the earlier and more help- 
less stage of their existence. This, on the contrary, 
is oidy found in a few cases among insects, such as 
the social bees, wasjis, and ants ; for the greater 
number of species never live to see their descend- 
ants. The numerous families, indeed, of moths, 
butterflies, and other winged iiusects, seldom live 
more than a few days after they have deposited 
their eggs, though some other species probably live 
many months. The latter, however, are only ex- 
ceptions to the general rule, that insects, after depo- 
siting their eggs, very soon die. The wisdom of 
Providence, therefore, has endowed female insects 
with the most wonderful acuteness and skill in anti- 
cipating the wants of their young, when they escape 






from the egg, and have no mother to direct or pro- 
vide for them. 

We have numerous beautiful instances of this in 
the solitary bees and wasps, which perform indefa- 
tigable labours in hewing out nests in wood and 
stone, and building structures of clay, leaves, cotton, 
and other materials, as we have elsewhere detailed 
at length^. But we recently met with an exam])le of 
this, which we shall briefly notice. A small solitary 
bee, {Chtiodoiricf for isoinne not so large as the 
domestic fly, and more slender in the body, instead 
of digging into the ground like its congeners f, 
bores a hole in a tree about the diameter of a wheat 
straw, and, when empty, resembling externally the 
timber holes of the furniture beetle (^Anobii/m per- 
iinax)^ for which, indeed, we at first mistook them, 
till we were undeceived by seeing the little bees going 
in and out. When the work is completed, however, 
the hole can only be detected by a practised eye, for 
it is neatly covered with a substance, the nature of 
which remains to be discovered. ] t is a grey semi- 
transparent membrane, somewhat resembling the 
slime of a snail when dried ; but whether it is secreted 
by the bee like wax, or gathered from plants like 
propolis, we cannot tell. As we had a whole colony 
of tliese little wood-boring bees in the stumj) of a 
growing poplar at JLee, we cut out several of the 
perforations, in order to examine the interior. These 
we found more than an inch deej), and filled to the 
brim with a thin whitish honey ; but, like those of 
the larger car])enter bees of a different genus {Xylo- 
copa), they were divided by several partitions of the 
same membranous material. 

The circumstance, however, which induces us to 
give these details here, relates to the eggs deposited 


? See Insect Architecture, pp. 24 — G4, &c. f Ibid.p. 43. 





in these sins^ular perforations. It is obvious, 
if the epr^s were laid in the midst of the liquid 
honey, that they would either be prevented from 
hatching, or the c^rub would be suflbcated in the first 
stag;e of its existence. Every chamber of the 
little nest is so full of honey, that it is difficult to 
divine how this is to be avoided, and it was only 
after repeated and anxious researches that we found 
a solution of the ditliculty. It is this : the mother- 
bee, when she has filled a chamber with honey, ^lues 
a single e^£^, a hair’s breadth or two above its sur- 
face, and at a similar minute distance she stretches 
the membranous partition, leavinsc between this and 
the surface of the honey just sufficient space, and no 
more, for the newly hatched 2j“rnb to crawl all round. 
On openinp; one of these perforations after the grub 
had been some time hatched, we found it keeping 
aloof from the lioney, and resting on the upper 
margin, from which it seemed to have stretched its 
head when feedingto the centre, instead of eating at 
the circumference. The honey was also then be- 
come thicker in consistence, and, in consequence of 
what had been consumed, formed a hollow cup^. 

Reaumur describes the nest of a bee of the 
same family (Andrrna cineraria, Fabr.), which is 
found in the neighbourhood of London, and differs 
from the preceding in making’ ])erf(>rations, not in 
trees, but in the ground, and lining these witli the 
membranaceous substance that comj)oscs the parti- 
tions and the outer covering. He takes no notice, 
however, of the prospective ingenuity with which 
the egg is ])laced above the surface of the fluid 
honeyt. 

The various species of nests thus prepared by the 
parent insects for depositing their eggs, arc not 
inerely intended for holding provisions and shel- 
J. ii. Reaumur, JVlcMii., vol. \i. p. 131, 

F 2 






tering^ the youngs g^ruh from the inclemencies of the 
weather, or from beings preyed upon by birds. There 
are more insidious and no less destructive enemies 
than these to guard against. This we shall imme- 
diately show from the economy of other families of 
tile same order, whose proceedings also strictly 
illustrate the subject of maternal care. In popular 
works on natural history the insects alluded to are 
indiscriminately called Ichneumojia, a name signifying 
Pryers^ and first given by Aristotle to wasps. But 
recently this term has been considerably restricted, 
and therefore does not jiroperly apply to many 
insects whose economy resembles the true ichneu- 
mons. It is the practice, then, of a very great num- 
ber of insects, of dilferent orders and families, to take 
advantage of the labours of other insects in pro- 
viding for their progeny, in the same way as the 
common cuckoo and the cow-bunting of America 
(Ember iza pecoris, Wilson) lay their eggs in the 
nests of other birds. The venerable Dr. Jeuner was 
the first to publish^, what had long been known to 
our peasants, that the young cuckoo, when hatched, 
soon ejects from the nest into which it has been 
surreptitiously introduced the eggs or young of its 
foster parent ; but the insects under notice act still 
more ungratefully. They do not, indeed, live upon 
the honey or other ]>rovisiou stored up by the 
builder of the nest for the use of her own young, 
since, being all carnivorous, this is not to their taste; 
but they permit tlie rightful owner of the food to 
feast and fatten on it, that they may make of him a 
more substantial repast. The great numbers of dif- 
ferent species of insects which are reared in this sin- 
gular manner would appear almost incredible to one 
who had not studied their economy ; but it cannot 
fail to meet the young entomologist at the very 
? Phil. Trans, for 17c>8, p.219. 






outset of his studies ; for it is scarcely possible for many 
broods of insects to be reared without observing;* it. 

The insidious proceeding's of these cuckoo in- 
sects, as we may not inappropriately call them, give 
rise to remarkable displays of ingenuity on the part 
of the mothers whose progeny is exposed to their 
felonious designs. It is the usual practice of the 
solitary bees and wasps to leave the whole task of 
constructing and provisioning tlie nest to the fe- 
male, the male, like an American Indian, taking 
no ])art in those domestic concerns. In this case, 
though she is seldom absent from the spot for 
more than two or three minutes at a time, some 
prying Chrysis or Taohina often glides into her 
domicile, and finds time to deposit its egg and 
to escape before her return. Other solitary bees ex- 
hibit both more civilization and more cunning ; for 
the male assists, at least, in watching and guarding 
the nest, if he does not lend a hand in its construc- 
tion. The ])roceedings of one of these solitary bees 
{Hallctus fiilvocinctiifi, Stepti.), indigenous in the 
vicinity of London, has frequently fallen under our 
observation. It constructs a gallery, having on the 
outside only a single perpendicular passage, but 
branching out into seven or eight, at the bottom of 
each of which is placed a globule of pollen kneaded 
up with honey about the size of a pea, where an egg 
is deposited. Walckenacr, who observed these in- 
sects with great care, remarks, that they only work 
during the night in making their galleries ; and 
our observations so far agree with his, that though we 
have observed some dozens of their nests, we never 
saw them at work in the day. Instead of this, 
either the male or the female always remains at the 
entrance of the nest (which its head exactly fills) 
ready to give no friendly reception to any enemy 
that may venture to intrude. We have often seen, 




indeed, the ruby-tail fly (Chrysis on ap- 

proachinp; this vigilant sentinel, fly off in all haste, 
with evident fear of the consequences. But, as 
Waickenaer justly remarks, should the partner of 
its cares return from a foraging excursion, and take 
two or three circular flights around the entrance to 
announce its arrival, the sentinel bee immediately 
makes way by withdrawing into the interior. Should 
the sentinel bee be absent through any cause from 
its post, and the forager enter without announcing 
its arrival, it is immediately driven back and pu- 
nished for so unpardonable a breach of etiquette^. 

Another circumstance worthy of notice in the 
manners of these bees (Halicti) is, that they fly 
directly into the entrance of their nests without ever 
alighting upon any contiguous object, a circum- 
stance which is attributed by Waickenaer to their 
fear of enemies, numbers of which are always lurk- 
ing about with evil intent. More than one species 
of spider and several sorts of wasps lie in wait to 
make prey of them, besides those we have men- 
tioned as being on the alert to introduce their eggs 
into their nest. But their most formidable enemy is 
a solitary wasp {Crrceris ornata}, numbers of 
which make their nests in the very midst of their 
colonies. The wasps surround the interior margin 
of their holes with a rampart of sand, agglutinated 
with a whitish mortar, and well polished. The gal- 
lery is five inches deep, somewhat in the form of an S, 
in which the female lays her eggs, with a store of 
provisions for her future young, consisting of the 
living bodies of her bee neighbours, the \)00y Halicti, 
It is only on fine days, between eleven and four 
o’clock, that the mother wasp engages in the chase 
of the bees, and may be seen flying with the most 
lively ardour around their nests. When an unfortii- 
? Wulck. Mem. dcs Abeilles SoUt. Paris, 1817. 





natc bee ventures at this time to approach its home, 
the wasp pounces upon it as a hawk would pounce 
upon a sparrow, seizes it by the back of the neck, 
carries it to tlic ground, and placing it by the side of 
a small stone or clod of earth, she turns it round upon 
its back. Then standing upon its belly in an attitude 
of conscious triumph, she darts her sting into the 
lower })art of its head, in such a manner as to stupify 
it, but not to kill it outright. As soon as she has in 
this manner laid in a sufficient store of half-dead 
bees, she closes up the entrance 

Several species of this family of wasps (Cerceris 
avrila, Latr., and C. ijitadrifasriata^ Bose) are 
of essential service to agriculturists by provisioning 
their nests w itli destructive weevils {Ourcvlioiiidai^ 
so injurious to orchards and nurseries t* Other 
families of this order in a similar way provide for 
their ])rogeny a supply of living insects of different 
species, of which interesting accounts have been 
given by more than one naturalist J. 

The insects, liowever, of these marauding tribes 
are not permitted to carry on their depredations on 
their more peaceful neighbours with impunity ; for 
nature has j)ro\ided other races of animals to make 
prey of them. We do not allude merely to birds 
and reptiles, which devour as many of those carni- 
vorous wasps as they can catcli ; for there is also a 
numerous tribe of insects who have the address to 
foil them at their own weapons. All the careful 
stratagems of the mason wasp {Odynenismvrarhis, 
Latr.), in rearing her turretted outworks to defend 
her premises while she excavates her galleries §, 
often prove ineffectual in guarding against the insi- 

* Walck, ; Lutrcillc, Annales du Museum, tom. xiv. i and 
Pose, Ann. dc 1’ Aerie., vol. liii. 

f Bose, Ann. de I’Agric., vol. liii. 

X See Insect Arcliiteclure, pp. 2G — 33. § Ibid., pp, 30 — 32, 


 

dions intrusion of a common ichneumon fly (Pimpla 
manift stator i Gravenhorst), easily known by its be- 
inc^ black, with the lea^s red. This ichneumon some- 
times pays a visit to the nest of the wasp before it is 
completed, for Reaumur has seen one peep into the 
entrance and then start back as if afraid of its 
depth ; but, for the most part, she waits patiently till 
the wasp, haviiuj^ laid in a store of caterpillars for 
the youno* one, closes up the doorway with a bar- 
ricado of kneaded clay. It is this very barricado 
which the ichneumon determines to assail in order to 
find a nest ready prepared and stocked with provi- 
sions for her own progeny. With lliis design she 
makes use of her ovipositor, which is as admirably 
adapted to the purpose as those of the saw-flies or 
the tree-hoppers (Cicada!'), 

The ovipositor of all the true ichneumons (lok- 
jieumoTiidai) is similarly constructed, consisting of a 
borer enclosed in a sheath, which opens through its 
whole length like the legs of a pair of compasses. It 
is longer or shorter, and stronger or more slender, 
according to the substances which it may be neces- 
sary to penetrate when the eggs are deposited. The 
description, therefore, of the ovipositor of the one 
just alluded to (P. manifcstator) will be sufficient to 
give the reader a distinct notion of the otliers. 
Being intended to penetrate into the deep holes dug 
by mason wasps, the ovipositor of this insect is 
nearly three inches long, and, as it is not concealed 
in the body like those of gall flies, it a])pears like a 
tail formed of a long black bristle. On examining 
this a little more narrowly, we find that what 
appears to be a single bristle is in reality three, two 
side ones forming a sheath, and tlie middle one a 
borer or brad-awl for piercing the clay barricado of 
the mason wasp’s nest. The termination of the 
borer is not, liowever, smooth, like that of a brad- 






awl, but toothed like a saw, only the teeth, seven or 
eic!;ht, are not oblique, but perpendicular, a structure 
better fitted for acting upon clay, as the teeth will 
not become so readily elop^ged, and the instrument 
will be more easily retracted. The figures will make 
tiiis more perspicuous than the best description. 



wasps {Odyneri) more elFectiially, Reaumur made 
an artificial ves])iary of sand and mortar upon a 
wall, which at the same time *2:avc him an excellent 
opportunity of observing: the manceiivres of the ich- 
neumons. “ I perceived,’’ he tells us, “ one of these 
ichneumons, at the instant it aliglited on the spot 
under which so many of the little green caterpillars 
had been stored up by the wasps. Its long tail, 
which it carried horizontally, a]:)peared to form but 
one bristle, though it was really coin])osed of three ; 
and though it carried it on a line with its body, it 
soon showed me that it was capable both of raising 
and lowering it, as well as of bending it in various 
directions, and in dittcrent proportions to its length. 
It moved its ovipositor so as to bring it into a bent 
position under its body, ])rotiMiding it even beyond 
its own head ; taking care to direct it into the barri- 





cadoed nest of the mason wasp. But although the 
insect appeared not to be disturbed by my observa- 
tions, yet I was unable to perceive whetiier the 
toothed portion of the borer was pushed beyond the 
sides of the sheath. What I did see, however, con- 
vinced me that the instrument was worked in a 
manner well adapted to make its way through the 
mortar; ior she turned it half round alternately 
from right to left and from left to right, as a car- 
penter would his brad-awl, and employed altogether 
more than a quarter of an hour bef ore she succeeded 
in penetrating to a sufficient depth 


icnncuinoii nies oviposiimj?. rt ^r, an K-hnounioti fl b h, \ts 
oviptKsitoi. r, an irhiuMiinon, wliirh has just Ijured through’ the 
dosed substance ot a sand wasp’s nest at e. into wliidi her ovi- 
positor, (i, descends to the coil of caterpillars at /, where the 
eiju IS laid. 

* KC‘aumur,Meni, vi. p. 304. 







Another parasite (Pimpla strobilella, Fabr.) is 
armed with a long ovipositor, with which it deposits 
its eggs in larvm tliat burrow in the fruit-cones of 
the tir. 

The intrusion of these parasite eggs into the nests 
of insects is olten an exceedingly puzzling circum- 
stance to naturalists, in their earlier researches ; and 
sometimes even deceives those ol‘ considerable expe- 
rience and acuteness into the supposition that the 
insects ultimately produced are in reality those of 
the original builder of the nest. These deceptions 
frequently occur in the numerous species of vege- 
table galls, originating chiefly in the economy of a 
beautillil famil\ of insects (Clicdcididfe, Westwood). 
When the gall-fl y {Cynips) has deposited its eggs on 
the bud or the leaf of a plant in such a manner as to 
insure their being surrounded with a thick coating of 
vegetable substance, they are not on that account se- 
cure from the insects just alluded to ; for the Chalcis^ 
armed by nature with an instrument for the purpose, 
can penetrate in any direction the largest oak-apple 
or bedeguar of the rose^. The most obvious dis- 
tinction between these parasites and the true gall-flies, 
is, that in the latter the ovipositor is partly concealed, 
while in the former it is altogether external, like the 
ichneumons in the preceding figure; but this dis- 
tinction is of course wanting in tlie male insects. It 
was the observation of difl'erent species of insects, 
produced in this manner from the same sort of gall, 
which betrayed the illustrious Redi into the fanciful 
notion of their being generated by a vegetative and 
sensitive soul in the plant itself, to which also he 
attributed the generation of the grubs found in nuts, 
cherries, and other fruits. “There is nothing,’’ as 
Reaumur justly remarks, “ more fitted to humi- 
liate the best rcasoners, and to inspire them with a 
* bee Insect Architecture, pp. 375 — 384. 






well-founded distrust of novel opinions, than to see 
a man like Redi, who had declared open war 
a«^ainst popular prejudices, and successfully com- 
bated many of them, thus adopting a notion 
so improbable, or (to use a stronger term) so 
pitiable^.” It was Redi’s countryman, Malpighi, 
who first discovered the genuine history of gall-flies; 
but when we consider that from the bedeguar gall of 
the rose alone no less than three different species of 
insects may ])roceed, two of which {Call imone he- 
de^iiarisy txnd Enrytoma stigma, Stephens) are para- 
sites, Redi had some cause for being ])uzzled to 
explain the ])henomena. 

Two other distinguished naturalists, Goedart and 
Ray, found no less difflciilfy in accounting for the 
progeny of ichneumons issuing from the caterpillars 
and chrysalides of butterflies. Riiy, indeed, Jived to 
ascertain the fact ; but he was at one time inclined to 
believe, with Goedart, that when, from iifjy defect 
or weakness. Nature could not bring a caterpillar to 
a butterfly, in order tliat her aim might not be en- 
tirely defeated, she stopped short, and formed them 
into insects of a smaller size, and less perfect struc- 
ture t- M. Goedart oven persuaded liimself, says 
Reaumur sarcastically, that tie had observed the ca- 
terpillar interesting itself for its infant progeny, by 
weaving for them an cnvelo])c of silk, it was also 
fancied that what was wanting in size in the para- 
site flies, when compared with theex])ected butterfly, 
was made up in their greater numbers w ith as 
much probability, says Reaumur, as that a cat would 
kitten a number of mice. The simjile facts which we 
shall now state, will point out the origin of these 
strange mistakes. 

^ Reaumur, Mem. iii., p.47G. 
f Ray, Hist. Ills., Pref. XV., and Cant. 137. 

I Goedart, quoted by Reaumur, vol. ii., p. 415. 





It must have occurred to the least attentive ob- 
servers of the very common cabbage caterpillar 
(Poiitia Brassicep^, that when it ceases to feed, and 
leaves its native cabbage to creep up walls and 
palings, it is often transformed into a group of little 
balls of silk, of a fine texture and a beautiful canary 
yellow colour ; from each of which there issues, in 
process of time, a small four-winged fly (Micro- 
gaster glomeratva^ Spinola), of a black colour, ex- 
cept the legs, which are yellow. By breeding these 
flies in a state of confinement, and introducing them 
to some cabbage caterpillars, their proceedings in de- 
positing their eggs may be observed. We have more 
than once seen one of these little flies select a cater- 
pillar, and ])erch upon its back, holding her ovipositor 
ready brandished to plunge between the rings which 
she seems to prefer. When she has thus begun 
laying her eggs, she does not readily take alarm ; 
but, as Reaumur justly remarks, will permit an ob- 
server to approach her with a magnifying glass of a 
very short focus. Having de]>osited one egg, she 
withdraws her ovipositor, and again jdunges it with 
another egg into a ditferent part of the body of the 
caterpillar, till she has laid in all about thirty eggs. 
It is not a little remarkable, that the poor caterpillar, 
whose body is thus pierced with so many wounds, 
seems to bear it very patiently, and does not turn 
upon the fly, as he would be certain to do upon 
another caterpillar should it venture to ])inch him ; 
a circumstance by no means unusual. Sometimes, 
indeed, he gives a slight Jerk, but tlie fly does not 
appear to be at all incommoded by the intimation 
that her presence is disagreeable. 

The eggs, it may be remarked, are thrust suffi- 
ciently deep to prevent their being thrown off’ when 
the caterpillar casts its skin ; and, being in due time 
hatched, the grubs feed in concert on the living 
body of the caterpillar. The most wonderful circum- 



 

stance, indeed, of the whole phenomenon, is the in- 
stinct with which the grubs are evidently guided to 
avoid devouring any vital part, so that they may 
not kill the caterpillar, as in that case it would be 
useless to them for food. When full grown, they 
even eat their way through the skin of the cater- 
pillar without killing it ; though it generally dies in 
a few days without moving far from the place where 
the grubs have spun their group of silken cocoons 
in which to pass the winter. 






Generation of Ichni-uinons. a a, the caterpillar of Fontia Bras- 
siccr. b, the epfjs of that butterfly to a leaf, c, Minogaster 

glomeriifus, maffnilied. d d d, a inaf^nified view of a dissected 
caterpillar, in whose body a number of ichneumon caterpillars 
have been hatched. silk cocoons t.pun by the ichneumons. 
f, grubs spuming cocoons, grubs eating tneir way out of the 
caterpillar. 





But it is not only in the nests of bees and wasps, 
or in the bodies of caterpillars, that these provident 
mothers contrive to deposit their e 2 ^g;s; for many of 
them are so very minute, as to find in the eg^s them- 
selves of larger insects a sufficient magazine of food 
for their progeny ; and accordingly, piercing the shell 
with their ovipositor, they thrust their own into the 
perforation. The most common instance of this 
which we have remarked, occurs in the eggs of 
spiders ; patches of which may be found almost 
everywhere under the cross bars of palings, and the 
copings and corners of walls. Though spiders, for the 
most part, not only cover their eggs with a thick 
envelope of silk, but also remain near to protect them 
from enemies, yet a small four-winged fly (^Cryptus, 
Fabr.), and, if we are not mistaken, two-winged flies 
(Muscid(B, Leach), also, outbrave the danger of being 
caught and immolated by the mother spider, and 
introduce their eggs either into or among those of 
their powerful enemy. These sj)ider’s eggs are 
subsequently feasted uj)on by the progeny of the 
flies, — a very natural reprisal for the ravages com- 
mitted by this carnivorous race upon the whole gene- 
ration of their fellows. That the mother flies actually 
pierce the eggs of other insects was observed before 
the year 1730, by the accurate Vallisnieri, who says, 
“ I have seen with my own eyes a certain kind of 
wild flies deposit their eggs upon other eggs, and 
bore and pierce others with an ovipositor {aculeus), 
by means of which they have introduced the egg 
Count Zinanni, another Italian naturalist, told Rthiu- 
mur, that, his attention being attracted by a small 
ichneumon fluttering about the eggs of butterflies, 
he soon observed it alight and fix upon one of these 
eggs ; and, without being incommoded by his ob- 
serving her proceedings through a strong magnifier, 
* Vallisnieri, Lettere, 80. 


 


she bent her ovipositor, and plunG;ed it into the 
She performed the same operation upon many 
other e^g;s, which he carefully put under cover ; and 
in about three weeks had from them a brood of flies 
of the same species with the one whose remarkable 
proceedinfl:s he had watched*. 

A writer in the Magazine of Natural History 
(Jan. 1S30), gives an account of a numerous brood 
of a very minute species of ichneumon, supposed to be 
an egg parasite (Platygastcr ovvlorvm ? Stephens), 
which was produced from the caterpillars of the large 
white cabbage butterfly (Po/ii.ia Brassicce). Hav- 
ing enclosed a number of these in a wire cage, five 
or six of them soon left off feeding, and crawled 
about the cage. “ June 30,’’ he proceeds, “ I found 
them resting on large clusters of minute cocoons of 
an ovate form, the largest not exceeding two lines in 
length, and about the thickness of a caraway- 
seed. Each was enveloped with a fine yellow 
silk, resembling that of the common silkworm 
{Bomhyx Mori). On these clusters the caterpillars 
remained the whole day without moving. Fresh 
leaves were given to the rest ; but in the course of 
the day they all left off feeding, crawled about the 
cage, but underwent no other change. Early next 
day, I found they had, with the exception of two or 
three, all ejected the parasitical progeny they had 
been impregnated with; and, like the preceding 
caterpillars, continued resting on the clusters they 
had formed: the remaining three followed the ex- 
ample of the others ; and the last operation of these 
devoted caterpillars v.as to envelope each cluster in 
a veil formed of the most delicate webf.” It is 
not a little interesting to remark, that this circum- 
stance corroborates the statement before given from 

vol. vi. p. 297. 

f Loudon's Mag. Nat. Hi&t. iii.51. 





Goedart, and disbelieved by Reaumur and subse- 
quent naturalists : but we think it so very extra- 
ordinary, that we are much inclined to think the 
observer (T. H. of Clapham) has uiiwittinirly fallen 
into mistake. “ Some of them,’’ he continues, “ ex- 
ecuted the task; but the greater part were too feeble 
to complete it; and in the course of three days 
more they became motionless, and gradually, one 
after another, fell shrivelled and exhausted to the 
bottom of the cage.” Some of the clusters contained 
upwards of a hundred cocoons, and others not more 
than sixty. By July 12, the perfect flies made 
their appearance by opening a rsort of lid at the end 
of each cocoon. The flies seem to differ little, 
except in size, from the common ichneumon of the 
same caterpillar {MicrogasUr glomeratus) ; but, sup- 
posing them to be in the first instance egg parasites, 
they must have been deposited among, not in the 
eggs of the butterfly. 

The minuteness of some of these parasite insects 
may be partly conceived from the fact mentioned by 
Bonnet, — that the egg of a butterfly, not bigger than 
a pin’s head, is sufficient to nourish several of them ; 
for out of twenty such eggs of butterflies, a pro- 
digious number (une qvantiia prodigiaise) were 
evolved *. Few species of the plant-lice (Aphides) 
are a great deal larger than the butterfly’s eggs de- 
scribed by Bonnet ; yet these also have a parasitical 
enemy (Microgaster Aphidvm, Spinola), which 
plunges its eggs in their bodies ; but the larva?, 
when hatched, are by no means safe, being liable 
to the attacks of another fly of the same family 
(Gelis agilis, Thunberg), as Dr. Turton informs 
ust. 

? Bonnet, CEuvres, 8vo. ii. 344. Kirhy, referring to this pas- 
sage, assigns, by mistake, only two to each egg. introd. i. 342. 

f Transl. of Linn, iii. 48, 




It is not common, however, for the ichneumon 
flies to deposit their e^g^s in the bodies of perfect 
insects, as in most cases they prefer the ep^f^s, larvae, 
or pupae; but instances are on record of their g^rubs 
haviiif^ t)een found in the former. The troublesome 
cock-roach (Blatta) is selected by a parasite fly 
(Evania apendi^adcr, Fabr.), as remarkable in 
form as it is rare in occurrence, in Britain at least. 
It has been found in the vicinity of London ; but, 
were it abundant, it mifrht tend to reduce the num- 
bers of these black beetles, as they are incorrectly 
termed, the pests of the kitchen. 



Magnified view of a parasite fly (Evania npendlga&tar)* 

An insect parasite, still more singular in form, 
and of still rarer occurrence, was discovered by 
Kirby, above thirty years a^o, on the black bronze 
bee {A?idrcna nigroamea, Stephens). “ I had pre- 
viously,” he remarks, “ more tlian once observed 
upon other species somethin p; that I took to be a kind 
of Acarus^ which a])peared to be imrnoveably fixed 
just at the inosculations of the dorsal segments of the 
abdomen. At length, finding three or four upon a 
specimen of this bee, I determined not to lose the 
opj)ortunity of taking one off to examine and de- 
scribe ; but what was my astonishment, when, upon 
my attempting to disengage it with a pin, I drew 
forth from the body of the bee a white fleshy larva, 





a quarter of an inch in leng^th, tlie head of which I 
had mistaken for an acarus ! {hec-lousc) . After I 
had examined one specimen, I attempted to extract 
a second ; and the reader may imagine how greatly 
my astonishment was increased, when, after I had 
drawn it out hut a little way, I saw its skin burst, 
and a head as black as ink, with large staring eyes 
and antennae, consisting of two branches, break forth, 
and move itself briskly from side to side. It looked 
like a little imp of darkness just emerged from the 
infernal regions. My eagerness to set free from its 
confinement this cxtraordinaiy animal may be easily 
conjectured. Indeed I was impatient to become 
better acquainted with so singular a creature. When 
it was completely disengaged, and I had secured it 
from making its escai)c, 1 set myself to examine it as 
accurately as possible ; and I found, after a careful 
inquiry, that I had got a nondescript, whose very 
class seemed dubious^.” Of the manner in which 
this singular insect (^Stylops) introduced its eggs 
into the body of a bee nothing is yet known, and its 
rarity puts it out of the reach of the most eager 
observers. Several species of the same genus have 
since been found near London, and an allied genus 
{Xenos) has since been discovered parasite in wasps 
by Professor Peck, in America. 



Bee Parasite. {Stylops Molitta-, Kirby.) 

De Geer was one day much surprised to ob- 
serve a small white grub sucking the body of a young 
spider {Epeira diademei), having attached itself 

* Monogr. Ap, Angl, ii, 113. 





firmly to the abdomen. Having pnt it into a crlass, 
he remarked a few days afterwards, that the spider 
had spun the outline of a vertical web, had stretched 
threads from the top to the bottom, and from one 
side to the other of the «;lass, togi;ether with the rays 
of a net, but without the circular threads. The most 
sinj^ular circumstance was, that the parasite orub 
was suspended in the centre of this web, where it 
spun its cocoon, while the exhausted spider had 
fallen dead to the bottom of the p;lass*. 

These examples will suffice to prove the anxious 
care of the mother insects in depositing their eggs 
where their progeny may find abundance of food. 
The tact with which they discover this is one of those 
mysteries of nature which are api)arently beyond 
the penetration of man ever to discover; for it is 
seldom that the mother insect herself feeds upon the 
same, or similar substances, as her larvsc, and yet 
she is well aware of what is appropriate for them. 
The ichneumon flies, whose history we have just 
been sketching, eat little, except, perliaps, a small 
quantity of honey from the nectary of a flower, 
and yet they know that their ])rogeny must be 
fed by living insects; the butterflies and moths, 
whose scanty repast also consists solely of the honey 
of flowers, never make a provision ol‘ this for their 
caterpillars, but deposit their eggs on plants and 
trees where their young may eal abundantly of 
leaves or other parts “ after their kind.’’ In making 
these selections, each sj)ecies exhibits some pecu- 
liarity well worthy of observation. Some confine 
themselves to one particular sort of plant, and never 
select any other ; some make choice indifferently of 
two or three sorts ; while others take a wider range, 
and fix upon plants of very dilferent qualities. To 
exemplify this, we might mention some thousands of 


* De Geer, Memoires, vol.ii, p. 8G3. 





instances, but it will be sufficient to say, that wc never 
find the ecf-^^s of the small tortoise-shell butterfly 
(V anessa vrticed) on any plant but the nettle; its 
cong:ener, the painted lady {Cynthia cardni, 
Stephens), thoujrh it prefers the spear-thistle, is 
sometimes found on the nettle, as is the comma 
{Vanessa C. Albim), thou«^h it seems to prefer the 
hop ; while we have found the ep;p;s of the lackey 
moth {Clisiocampa neusiria) on almost every bush 
and tree, from the sweetbriar to the oak, in woods, 
hedges, orchards, and e^ardcns, without any apparent 
preference beyond the accident of the mother moth 
alii^htinp^ on a y)articular branch. In the same way 
almost all those which deposit their cp,*p;s on salad 
plants, such as the g^reat tipper {Areiia Caja^ Ste- 
phens), will as readily select the nettle as the lettuce 
or dandelion 

It is worthy of remark that our native insects fre- 
quently make choice of exotic plants, by means of 
the instinctive tact which enables them to discover 
such as suit their pxirpose. The death’s-head hawk 
moth {Achcrontia Atropos), for example, is now 
usually found on the potatoe and the jasmine, but 
previous to the introduction of these into Britain, it 
probably confined itself to the bitter sweet {Solanum 
dulcamara). We have known the moth taken in 
Ayrshire, where this plant is abundant. An instance 
in point has just occurred to us in one of the minute 
leaf-miners. Upon the leaf of an exotic plant 
{Cineraria cruenta) kept in a g’arden-pot in our 
study, we were not a little surprised to observe the 
tortuous wiiiding;s of a miner, considerably dilferent 
in the outline from any we had before examined. 
ThouG;h it was so late as December, also, the g;rub 
seemed very active, and would sometimes mine nearly 
half an inch of the leaf in the course of the day. It 
J. R. 






was transformed within the leaf, in a few days, into 
a pupa, and beinp^pntundera bell-g^lass, a small two- 
winged fly (Tephritis SerratulfB ? ) made its appear- 
ance in about a fortnight. In some garden-pots, in 
another room of the same house, were exotic plants 
of the American groundsel (Senecio elegans), the 
leaves of which were crowded with miners, whose 
paths, however, were so very different as to indicate 
a different species; but upon their transformation 
into perfect insects, they turned out exactly the same. 
They proved, indeed, to be the same with the leaf- 
miners of the swine-thistle (^Sonchus olcraceus). 



localities op various species. 





numerous specimens of which we collected in the 
immediate vicinity ; but the flies of these, from their 
previous exposure to the cold out of doors, did not 
appear till a month later. It is worthy of remark, 
that the two exotic plants are of the same natural 
family {ComposittB) ; yet, notwithstanclinjr the simi- 
larity of the common groundsel {Senecio vulgaris) to 
the American, not one leaf of the former was found 
mined, though it is an abundant native plant*. 

It is no less remarkable, that the mother insects 
of the larvae which live solitary and those which 
live in society take care to deposit their eggs with 
regard to the respective destinations of their pro- 
geny. In our earlier studies we remember being much 
interested with Harris’s description of the admirable 
butterfly {Vanessa Atalanta)^ flitting rapidly and 
stealthily from field to field, and depositing only a 
single egg on a single nettle in each, as if she were 
afraid of overstocking one place and leaving others 
uninhabited by her descendants t- Our subsequent 
observation of the manners of the insect itself has led 
us to doubt the accuracy of Harris; for we think it 
will hold as a pretty general principle, that the mo- 
thers of solitary caterpillars, for the most part, deposit 
several eggs on the same plant, often at no great 
distance, and sometimes on the same leaf. No class 
of caterpillars coidd well be considered more solitary 
than those of the hawk moths {Sphingidee, Leach), 
yet we have found from two to three eggs ol* that 
of the poplar hawk {Smerijithus Populi) upon the 
same leaf, and a similar number of the eggs of the 
puss moth, the larva of which is also solitary, on one 
leafj ; whileofthe admirable butterfly above alluded 
to, we found, in 1825, as many as from three to six 
on every plant in a small patch of about a dozen 

* J. R. ¦]• See Harris’s Aurelian, vi. fol. Lond. 1778. 

J See Insect Architecture, p. 192. 





nettles, in Copenhao^cn-fiekls, Islinp;ton. A similar 
deposition of egfgs is made by several of the mothers 
of the subsolitary caterpillars which live in the wood 
of trees. Of this we had a p^ood example in the 
clear under-wiii«' {JE^eria r/.v////br772zs),above a score 
of the small black eg*«s of which we found deposited 
in a scattered irianiier on the trunk of a single poplar 
at Lee 

The most singular disposal of eggs with which 
we are acquainted in the economy of insects, is ex- 
emplified in the common gnat {Cvlex pipiens, Linn.). 
It is admirably described by Reaumur, though it 
seems first to have been discovered by Langallo, 
who mentions it in a letter addressed to Redi, printed 
at Florence in l(i79; and by Alloa, who actually 
saw the eggs laid, and afterwards sketched a figure 
of them. Those who wish to witness this singular 
operation, must repair before five or six o’clock in the 
morning to a [)on(l or a bucket of stagnant water 
frequented l)y gnats ; when Rf'aunmr went later in 
the day he was always disa])pointed. 

The facts of this disposal of her eggs by the com- 
mon gnat, are sulTiciently curious to excite attention 
to them ; and, therefore, it is not easily to be under- 
stood how the I'ol lowing erroneous and fanciful 
account originated. “ The manner,” says Gold- 
smith, “ in which the insect lays its eggs is particu- 
larly curious ; alter having laid the proper number on 
the surface of the water, it surrounds them with a 
kind of unctuous matter, which prevents them from 
sinking, but at the same time fastens them with a 
thread to the bottom, to prevent their floating away, 
at the mercy of every breeze, from a place the warmth 
of which is proper for their production, to any other 
where the w ater may be too cold, or the animals, its 
enemies, too numerous. Thus the insects, in their 
- J. R. 





state, resemble a buoy which is fixed by an 
anchor. As they come to maturity, they sink deeper^ 
and at last, when they leave the ejro- as worms, creep 
to the bottom*,'^ This fable, which was first men- 
tioned by Pliny, is repeated verbatim by Bins^ley f- 
The impossibility of a ^iiat spiiinin«^ a thread, and 
plunfi^iufj; into the water to fix it at the bottom, never 
struck these writers. 

We are the more anxious to expose these erroneous 
accounts, from a persuasion that a tiiste for natural 
history has been more injured by numerous similar 
statements, which could not be verified by a student, 
in many popular works, than by the driest skeleton 
descriptions of those who have merely pursued Natural 
History as a science of names. 

The ])roblem of the jj^nat is to construct a boat- 
shaped raft, which will float, of e^gs heavy enoug^h to 
sink in water if dropped into it one by one. The 
eg^s are nearly of the pyramidal form of a pocket 
g*unpowder-flask, rather pointed at the upper and 
broad at the under end, with a i)rojection like the 
mouth of a bottle. The first operation of the mother 
gnat is to fix herself by the four fore-legs to the side 
of a bucket, or upon a lloating leaf, with her body 
level with and resting upon the surface of the water, 
excepting the last ring of the tail, which is a little 
raised ; she then crosses her two hind legs in form oi* 
an X, the inner opening of which is intended to form 
the scafibldiiig of her structure. She accordingly 
brings the inner angle of her crossed legs close to the 
raised part of her body and places in it an egg, covered, 
as is usual among insects, with a glutinous fluid. On 
each side of this egg she places another, all which 
adhere firmly together by means of their glue, and 
form a triangular figure thus * * , which is the stern 

* Goldsmith, Animated Nature, vi.337. 
f Bingley, Animal Biography, iii. 43^, 3d ed, 

 


of the I’aft. She proceeds in the same manner to add 
ege; after egg^ in a vertical (not a horizontal) position, 
carefully regulatings the shape by her crossed legs ; and 
as her raft increases in magnitude, she pushes the 
whole gsradually to a greater distiince, and when she 
has about half-finished she uncrosses her legs and 
places them parallel, the angle being no longer neces- 
sary for shaping the boat. Each raft consists of 
from two hundred and fifty to three hundred and 
fitly eggs, which, when all laid, float on the water 
secure from sinking, and are finally abandoned by 
the mother. They are hatched in a few days, the 
grubs issuing from the lower end ; but the boat, now 
composed of the empty shells, continues to float till it 
is destroyed by the weather^. 



Gnats form in jf their boats. «, represents the commeneement 

of the boat of egfjs ; />, the boat about two-thirds completed ; c, 
the perlfct boat resting on the surface of the water. 


Kirby justly descriljes this little vessel as resembling 
a London wherry, being sharp and higher, as sailors 
say, /ore and aft^ convex below and concave above, and 
always floating on its keel. “ The most violent agita- 
tion of the water,” he adds, “cannot sink it, and what is 
more extraordinary, and a property still a desideratum 
in our life-boats, though hollow, it never becomes 

? lU*aumur, Mem, iv, p. G21, 






filled with water, even thoiijrh exposed. To put this 
to* the test, I placed half a dozen of these Iwats upon 
the surface of a tumbler half-full of water : I then 
poured upon them a stream of that element from the 
mouth of a quart bottle held a foot above them. Yet 
after this treatment, which was so roup^h as actually 
to project one out of the p;lass, I found them floating 
as before upon their bottoms, and not a drop of w^ater 
within their cavity*.’* We have repeatedly pushed 
them to the bottom of a glass of water; but they 
always came up immediately to the surface appa- 
rently unwetted. 



Magnifipd view of flu* boat ol gnats’ 


We have contented ourselves with giving here 
only a few examples of the maternal care wliich is 
displayed by insects in dej)Ositing their eggs, though 
we could have filled the volume with similar details. 
The instincts which are thus displayed are of the 
most interesting description ; and they cannot fail to 
impress the most careless observer with a deep reve- 
rence of that providential wisdom by which they are 
implanted in these small and feeble creatures for the 
maintenance of their race. But it is not essential, in 
order to produce this reverence, to exaggerate the cir- 
cumstances under which these remarkable peculiarities 
are displayed. The infallibility of the instinct of in- 
sects in such cases is, in most books of natural his- 
tory, maintained to be without exception. “ Led by 
an instinct,” say Kirby and Spence, “ far more un- 
lutrod. iii. p. 32 . 





erring than the practised eye of the botanist, she re- 
cop^nizes the plant the moment she approaches it*.” 
And again, they talk of “ the vnerring foresight with 
which the female deposits her eggs in the precise 
place where the larvaB when excluded are sure to find 
suitable food t.’’ This unconditional position requires, 
however, to be considerably modified to make it cor- 
respond with the facts. The experiment we gave from 
Redi in our first chapter, in which the carnivorous 
flies laid their eggs on the silk and paper covering 
tainted meat, will occur to every reader as one striking 
exception ; and we can mention several others still 
more marked. When Dr. Arnold discovered that 
most singular parasitic plant, the krubut, of Sumatra, 
{RaffieMa Arnoldii, Brown,) which consists of a 
flower only, without leaf or stem, and of the extra- 
ordinary diameter of three feet, he perceived a swarm 
of flies hovering over the nectary, and apparently 
laying their eggs in its substance, mistaking it most 
probably for carrion, as it smelt like tainted beef J. 
A similar mistake is committed in our own country, 
when the common blow-fly (Musca vomitoiia) lays 
its eggs in the foetid funguses (Phalli, A garici, &c.), 
apparently under the notion that these are genuine 
carrion §. This may be more particularly observed 
on the singular class of plants, stapelias, which are 
so common in our hot-houses : whole families of 
maggots are constantly born to starve in their foetid 
flowers. 

These are instances of the mistakes of instinct in 
circumstances where it depends upon the information 
of the senses ; and similar mistakes frequently occur 
where the higher ])owers of human rationality are 
deceived by analogous phenomena. The fine nutty 
flavour of cherry laurel water and of prussic acid 

? Introd. i. p. 340. 4' Ibid. iii. p. 65. 

\ R, Brow'ji; Linn. Trans, vol. xiii. § Smellie, Philos, of Nat. Hist. 





would be certain to deceive the inexperienced ; and 
Majendie’s servant actually fell an immediate vic- 
tim to her desire of tasting* the prussic acid which 
she found in his laboratory. This would be consi- 
dered perhaps a mistake arising from the artificial 
habits acquired in society, by those who maintain 
that animals, guided by instinct, never mistake poison 
for food. But we may add another curious instance 
or two of similar mistakes in the inferior races. 

The common earth-worm {Li/mbricus terresfris) 
is instinctively afraid ol‘ moles ; and no sooner does 
it hear any subterranean noise, or feci any shaking of 
the ground, similar to those indicative of the ap- 
j)roaching movements f)f its enemy, than it makes a 
speedy escape to the surface. Every boy knows how 
to take advantage of this to ])rocure lish-baits, by 
thrusting a spade or a stake into the ground, and 
moving it backwards and forwards, to imitate the 
advance of a mole burrowing in search of prey. 
The worm, unable from its instinct to discriminate 
between its subterranean enemy and the spade, darts 
into day-light, and is instantly captured for the boy^s 
bait-bag. The lapwing anelliis cridatua, Meyer), 
it is stated by Dr. Anderson in his ‘ Bee,’ is aware 
of this instinctive fear in the earth-worm of sub- 
terranean concussions or noises; and when it can- 
not find sudiciency of slugs &c. above ground, 
it pats with its feet, till the earth-worms, mistaking 
it for an advancing mole, come forth to be feasted 
upon. 

It is well known that, whenever a hawk appears, 
he is immediately surrounded by a host of small 
birds, particularly swallows, which dart at him and 
tease him, jbr the purpose, as may be suj)posed, of 
distracting liis attention, on the princiide that 

^ “ Nourriture; — in>ectus, aiaijjnees, \ers, ct petite lima^ons,” 
Temminck, Manuel d’Ornithologie, p. 552, 2d. edit. 

u 3 



 


* wealth makes wit waver.’ Be this as it may, the 
cuckoo, which bears a strong resemblance to a 
hawk when on the win^, is certain to be accom- 
panied by a similar retinue of small birds wherever 
it flies. In the north this is so commonly observed, 
that the cuckoo is popularly believed to be always 
attended by a titling or pippet {^AntJuni pratensis, 
Bechstein), which, it is further ima«;ined, has been 
its stepmother and nurse from the epi^g : this, indeed, 
is the bird whose nest the cuckoo most frequently 
selects to deposit the e^j^s which she so strangely 
and unnaturally abandons ; though it is more pro- 
bable that it is not on this account, but because she 
appears to be a hawk, that the pippet and other small 
birds persecute her. 

Linnajus records in his ‘ Lachesis Lapponica,’ 
that at Tornea there is a meadow, or bog, full of 
water-hemlock {Cienta virosa)^ which annually 
destroys from fifty to a hundred head of cattle. It 
seems that they eat most of it in spring, when first 
turned into the pasture, partly from their eagerness 
for fresh pasture, and partly from their long fasting 
and greediness, the lierbage being then short. Be- 
sides, from the immersion of the hemlock under 
water, it may not have the proper scent to deter 
them. A similar destruction of cattle from the same 
cause occurs in the wide meadows of Leinings^. 

* J. R., in Mag. of Nat. Hist., I. 374, 


 


Hybernation of Insert Ejfflfs. — Infrrnuity of Moths. — Sing;iilaritie8 of Co- 
clienille Insectii and of Spiders. — ^Experiments of Spallanzani and John 
Hunter. 

The assertion of Paley that “ the human animal is the 
only one which can clothe itself*,” though it accords 
with what is known of quadrupeds, birds, and fishes, 
by no means holds good in the insect world, in 
which it may be disproved by the most superficial 
observer t- Men, indeed, proceed by means of rea- 
soning and experiment to the discovery of such ma- 
terials as are best fitted for protecting their bodies 
against the vicissitudes of temperature, and other 
changes of weather; while insects are taught by the 
Governor of the Universe to select instinctively the 
best materials for their clothing. This is exemplified 
in a very remai kable manner in the coverings made 
by difierent families for protecting their eggs, as we 
shall now describe. 

The maternal affection of the eider duck (Anas 
moliissima, Linn.) has frequently been celebrated by 
naturalists, from her stri])ping the down from her own 
breast to form her nest, a circumstance which is also 
exemplified in the common rabbit ; but both of these 
animals are outrivalled by more than one moth : — 
for the latter, not contented with a nest made of their 
own down, take pains to cover with it each individual 
egg. The provision which nature lias made for this 
purpose is worthy of attention. The female, for ex- 
ample, of the gypsey moth (Hypogymua dispar) has 
the hinder parts of her body thickly clothed with a 

? Nuturarriicology, p. 230. 11th edit, 
f See Insect Aichitecturc/* chaps, x., xii,, &c. 





soft down of a hair-brown colour, which is wanting 
in the male, evidently because to him it would be of 
no use. As a covering for her own body, it can be 
of but small service, since she emerges from her 
pupa-case during the hot days of August, and does 
not usually live more than a week or a fortnight. Its 
chief or sole purpose, therefore, is to furnish a co- 
vering for her eggs. 

When about to lay, the mother gypsey moth places 
herself on tlie trunk of an oak or an elm, invariably 
with her head downwards, the reason of which posi- 
tion will be immediately explained. Without the aid 
of her legs, which are too short to be used like 
those of the gnat by way of rule and compass, she 
contrives to place her eggs in the form of an inverted 
cone. She first makes a little bed of this down, into 
which she thrusts the egg intended for the point of 
her cone ; and this egg, being covered with adhesive 
gluten, attaches around it all the hairs of the down 
with which it comes in contact, and also sticks to the 
bark of the tree, from its being ])ushed home. Pro- 
ceeding in the same manner, slie continues lor seve- 
ral hours adding to the mass ; but she does not in 
general finish the operation in less than two days, 
indulging in occasional rests when fatigued with her 
labour. At intervals, also, she takes care to protect 
the eggs placed in the cone with an exterior covering 
of the same down. There is one part of these opera- 
tions not a little remarkable. In the bed which she 
first makes for the eggs, the hairs of t!ic down either 
point at right angles to the bark of the tree, or at 
least are tossed down with little regularity ; but in 
tile external coping, which is designed to keep out the 
winter rains, the hairs are carefully placed in a sloping 
direction, like the tiles on a house, or the pile of 
a well brushed hat, ]jointing downwards towards the 
base of the cone. The latter is usually concave, be- 





cause, when the moth takes her occasional rests, she 
never moves from the spot, but remains with her tail 
thrust in amonp;st the eg^^s. We liave f^iven these 
details from observations made in the Parc at Brus- 
sels, in Aupjust, 1829* ; and our entomological readers 
will perceive, that thoup^h they do notdisaG;ree with the 
facts observed by the accurate Reaumur, we have 
added several particulars not mentioned by him t- 
In order to preserve some specimens of the p^ypsey 
moth, which abounds in the Netherlands, but is rare 
in most parts of Brihiin, we inclosed two or three in 
chip boxes. U])on openin«* these, a short time after- 
wards, we found that one of the moths had deposited 
a patch of e^f>;s ; but, instead of the conical form which 
the insect would have chosen had shebeen at liberty, she 
had disposed them in the form of a wheel, of which her 
body was the radius. This, of course, was not so much to 
be wondered at, as it no doubt arose from her want of 
space to proceed in the usual manner ; but we deem it 
worthy of notice that this wheel, which was about a 
(juarter of an inch broad in the rim, was sloped with 






the s;reateRt rep^ularity, after the manner of a candle 
shade, and the down tiled upon it all round. Another 
of our prisoners, thoui^h precisely in the same circum- 
stances as to space, instead of forming a wheel, piled 
up her eggs in form of a circular mound ; but as the 
number of her eggs was not a sixth part of those of the 
other, (probably from her having deposited jmrt before 
we caught her,) this may have induced her to vary 
the shape of the group. Like the others, however, the 
regular slope and tiling of the down was carefully 
preserved *. We have now (April, 1830) a numerous 
brood of caterpillars from these very eggs. 

The eggs, which are thus deposited with so much 
care, arc destined to abide all the pitiless pelting of 
the storms of winter ; for, although they are laid in 
August, they are not hatched till the elm comes into 
leaf ill the following* spring. The covering of down, 
accordingly, from the manner in which it is tiled and 
brushed smooth by the mother moth, not only protects 
them from wet, Imt from severe cold, being one of the 
best non-conductors of heat. The ex])eriments oi‘ 
modern chemical philosophers have proved beyond a 
doubt, tliat the warmest material for clothing is not 
what imparts most heat to the body, but what best 
prevents the escape of the heat generated there. The 
feeling of cold, therefore, does not, as might be sup- 
j)()sed, arise from anything positively cold, but solely 
from a deficiency of heat. On putting the hand, for 
example, on a piece of ice, the feeling of cold docs 
not arise from cold given out by the ice to the hand, 
but from the heat which the ice takes from the hand, 
which heat can be actually traced in the water formed 
by the melting of the ice. But when the hand is laid 
upon wool, feathers, or down, these do not feel cold, 
because they do not carry off the heat of the skin so 
rapidly as the ice. 


* J.ll. 





It may appear a little paradoxical, though the doc- 
trine is sound, to assert that down and similar ma- 
terials are nearly as well calculated for protecting an 
animal from excessive outward heat as from severe 
cold» This, however, has been long well known as a 
fact to the Neapolitan peasantry, who convey snow 
from Mount Vesuvius to Naples in the summer lor the 
purposes of luxury : they preserve it from melting by 
covering it with chaff and wool. It may not be out 
of place to remark that instances of this occur among 
insects, precisely similar to what we have just detailed 
respecting the gypsey m()th. The brown-tail and the 
golden-tail moths (Porlhesia mirifua^ and P. Chry~ 
sorrhma^ Stephens), whose caterpillars spin themselves 
a warm nest before the setting-in of the winter colds*, 
seem no less careful to protect their eggs from the 
summer heats of July and August, at which time they 
are dei)osited. The down with which they are fur- 
nished for this purpose grows upon the tail of the 
female moth, in form of a thick tuft or brush, of a 
shining silky gloss, and of a different colour from the 
short hair on the body. It may be remarked that 
moths have only a mouth tube for sucking honey, and 



lemales of the brown and {rold-tailed moths, showing the bunch 
of down on the tails. 


See Ihi:ect Architecture/’ p,329“ 





no mandibles or jaws like bees, wasps, and beetles, 
for performinc^ any mechanical labour ; but the moths 
in question have an oro;an admirably contrived for 
covering their ego^s with down. This consists of an 
extensile instrument, situated in the tail, not unlike 
the points of a ])air of sugar-tonp^s, and intended to 
perform the j)art of tweezers in ])ullin^ off the down, 
and placing it upon the eg-o's. Having reared nume- 
rous broods of the moths alluded to, we can testify 
to the minute accuracy of Reaumur in detailing 
their proceedings. He remarks, that though the 
mother moth is exceedingly sluggish (lourde) in her 
general movements, she emi)loys her tweezers with 
surprising quickness, on all sides, first, to pull off a 
pinch of down, and spread it out, and then to place the 
egg upon it, and cover it neatly over, and smooth the 
down in the j)roper direction. The nature of the in- 
strument will be better understood by the following 
figures. 



Tweezers of the brown and ffold-tailed moths, rna/fiiilioil. 

Reaumur has figured the deposition of the eggs 
of an insect, the species of which is not ascertained, sent 
him by a physician of Lu^on, which are covered, like 
the preceding, with down, but are arranged in an 
elegant spiral form, as if a lady would wind one of 
the ends of her fur tippet spirally round a branch. 

• Savigny, however, has displayed much acumen in site wing 
how the suckers of moths, &c., are analogous to mandibles, — Me- 
moires sur ks Aninu sans V :rteb. 





These e^i^s were extremely small, and the down very 
fine, like the short fur of the beaver, and of a pretty 
squirrel-^rey colour. The eggs were oblong, and 
placed on end, at right angles to the branch ; as was 
also their downy envelope, which differed in this re- 
spect from tlie imbricated and smoothly brushed 
coping of the moths above described. There is no- 
thing of this kind, says Reaumur, which we ought 
to consider it difficult for an insect to execute, when 
we are accpiaintcd with the admirable instruments 
with which nature has furnished them 



The spiral form of eggs deposited upon a branch 
may, in particular years, be seen in almost every 
orchard and every hedge, being the method followed 
by the lackey moth {Clisiommpa iieustria^ Ste- 
phens) and its congeners. The precise manner iii 
which the mother lackey proceeds has not, so far as 
we know, been witnessed by any naturalist ; and 
though Reaumur reared a great number on pur- 
pose to discover it, all his efforts proved unsuccessful. 
An examination, however, of the arrangement of the 
eggs themselves, shews that they are placed in a 
manner excellently adapted to secure their adhesion 
to the branch, and to prevent their sustaining injury. 
The egg is somewhat of the form of a fimnel-shaj)ed 
wine-glass — broader at top than at bottom f ; and it 
? lU'aumur, Mcrn.ii. 107. 

+ See two of these eggs figured in “ Insect Architecture,” 
p.l9. 



 


is worthy of remark, that this is the precise form of the 
arch-stones of a bridg^e. They are, in fact, built toge- 
ther in the arched form. This, together with the 
strong cement employed in uniting them, renders 
it difficult to crush them, though considerable force 
be used for that })urpose ; and this even when they are 
slipped off the bninch, round which they are set like 
pearls on a bracelet, which is the name given them 
by the French peasantry. The cement, also, is so 
hard, that when pressed it resists the nail, though it 
may be pierced with the point of a sharp knife ; and 
not being soluble in water, “nor in any other liquid,’’ 
says Swammerdam, “ which I have tried,” the heaviest 
rain dashes upon the eggs without injury. 



It may be a question with some, when they com- 
pare these naked eggs of the lackey moth, exposed on 
a bare bnincli, with the warm downy co^erillg of those 
of the gypsey moth, how the former are protected 
from the colds of winter. This is a question which 
previous researches cannot fully answer, but one cir- 
cumstance is obvious — the lackey’s eggs are many 
degrees harder than those of the gy])sey, wliich may 
be easily crushed. Probably also, this may be con- 
nected with their electrical state; and that has always 






an intimate connection with heat in animated bodies. 
The livinfij principle, to which we shall by and bye 
advert, must also be taken into account. 

In consequence of the minuteness of insect eggs, 
notwithstanding the researches of enthusiastic ento- 
mologists, we are still unacquainted with by far the 
greater number. The hybernation of eggs is, there- 
fore, a subject upon which little is known. In the 
egg state insect life is, perhaps, less liable to acci- 
dents, than in a more advanced stage of existence ; 
and it is most probable that the greater number re- 
main unhatched during the cold season. Different 
modes of depositing eggs are resorted to by different 
species of the same genus, as may be exemplified in 
the plant lice (^Aphides), It was observed by De 
Geer, that those of the birch and the blackthorn 
(^Aphis Alni, and A. Pruni) covered each egg indivi- 
dually with a white cottony down, detached from their 
bodies by means of their hind legs, and placed by the 
same means over the eggs^. But the greater number 
of this family lay their eggs in an exposed situation, 
upon the plants where the young, when hatched, may 
find food. Thus Kirby found the small black eggs of 
a large species on the buds of birch-trees ; and we 
have just discovered (Jan. 1830) a numerous deposit 
of the eggs of the magpie plant-louse {Aphis Sam- 
bud) on an elder tree, where the insect was abundant 
the preceding summer f. These eggs arc exceedingly 
minute,but easily observed on account of their shining 
black colour. They are placed in an irregular patch 
upon a ])art of the trunk from which the bark has 
been stripped off, and are entirely unprotected. 

The cochenille insects {CoeddfP Leach), so called 
from one of the species furnishing the well-known 
valuable dye-stuff, protect their eggs in a still more 

* De Geer, Mem. sur les Insectes, iii. 48, 51. t K 

 


remarkable 'manner. The mother deposits her e^g‘s 
under her body, which becomes ^lued to the spot ; she 
then dies, and her body becomes a covering for the 
eggs. In this state the insects appear on the bark 
of trees like small warts, some species in the form of 
a boat, some kidney-shaped, and others globular ; 
and, before their history was understood, they were 
with some plausibility supposed to be vegetable galls, 
— whence they were termed Gall Insects by the French. 

Though the mother insect is seldom larger than a 
peppercorn, the number of eggs which she lays 
amounts to several thousands, and in fact fills the 
greater portion of her body. Those which are found 
on our green-house plants, and which are the pest 
of the grape-vines in the neighbourhood of London, 
both in and out of doors, secrete a sort of white 
silky gum, very like gossamer, as the first bed of 
their eggs. Reaumur could not discover that the 
mother insect was furnished with any organ similar 
to those of spiders and caterpillars for spinning this 
gossamer; and in an allied genus (Dor/^ma), Kirby 
and Spence talk of it as “ wire-drawn through nu- 
merous pores in certain oval plates in the skiii^.’* 
Having minutely observed, during several successive 
summers, some thousands of the female cocci found 
on vines in the open air, we have satisfied ourselves 
that this cottony matter is precisely similar to the 
gluten which envelopes the eggs of most insects ; 
and that it is neither spun like the threads of cater- 
pillars, or the webs of spiders, nor wire- drawn 
through numerous pores, — ^but is simply excluded 
along with the eggs. We may remark, also, that the 
covering formed by the body of the mother coccus 
prevents this substance from drying, as the webs of 
spiders do ; and, consequently, it can at any time be 
* Introd. iii., p. 183. 





drawn out into extended threads, by detaching a few 
of the eggs from the mass. 



Kp:£!:s> of the Coceus covered Avith down, and with the bodies, 
ol the mothers. 


All account, which appears to us altogether apo- 
cryphal, has been given of the migrations of the 
species which produces the cochenille (Coccus CaclU 
Linn). From the females remaining stationary, 
it is said, their numerous progeny would not find 
sulficient nutrinient on their native tree; and they 
arc, at the same time, st) delicate, that they conld not 
travel along tlie ground from one plant to another; 



Magnified cochenille insects, {Coccus cacti), a, Male. 6, Female. 

 


but nature, it is alleged, provides for them admirable 
means of emigration, since, at the period of their 
birth, a multitude of spiders fasten their nets to the 
leaves of the nopal, and along these, which serve 
them for bridges, the young cocci emigrate to the 
adjacent trees *. We have little doubt that this story 
has originated in the inaccurate observations of some 
fanciful traveller, who mistook the threads accidentally 
drawn out from the mass of eggs, for those of a 
spider. 

The gossamer envelope, however, which we have 
just described as covering the eggs of the coccus that 
is common on our British vines, is not intended as a 
defence against the cold of winter; for this species 
hybernates, according to Reaumur, in the laiTa state, 
though we have frequently searched for these larvaj 
in vain during winter, on vines where they swarmed 
in mjTiads during summer. But the Britisli species 
of coccus of the hawthorn, &c., on account of which 
we introduced the subject here, assuredly hybernates 
in the egg state ; and may be seen at the off-goings 
of the branchlets in an oval form, like that of a 
minute wood-louse (Oniscus), of a silvery grey 
colour, differing, indeed, but little from the tint of 
the bark. On raising up with the point of a pen- 
knife what appeared to be the body of the insect, we 
found that it was hard, dry, and dead, — the mere 
skin, in a word, of the mother coccus, while under- 
neath was a multitude of eggs of a deep orange 
colour. It is worthy of notice, also, that there is, 
then, no envelope of gossamer, though there is mixed 
up with the eggs a small quantity of a greyish white 
powder, which, we are inclined to conjecture, may 
be the dried remains of it ; and, the more so, that 
Reaumur figures the gossamer as abundant in the 
coccus of the hawthorn. Unfortunately he has not 
* St. Pierre, Studies of Nature, vol.i. 






mentioned at what season he procured these, and 
we have no means of ascertaining whether our species 
is the same with his^. 



a b r, Kp;G:s of flie liawtborn rocens, covered liy the body of tlio 
dead uiother. rf, oue of those niagiiilied. e, a section, shewing 
the eggs within. 

We have found the eggs just mentioned most 
abundant on the hawthorn in the hedges around 
London; but as the size, the colours, and the forms 
of the crust are very dillereut, there can be no doubt 
of there being diflerent species even on the same 
tree. “ In Jnl), 1812,” says Kirl)y, “ 1 saw a cur- 
rant-busli miserably ravaged by a sjtecies of coccus 
very much resembling the coccus of the vine. The 
eggs were of a beautiful pink, and enveloped in a 
large mass of cotloii-like web, which could he drawn 
out to a considerable length f.” From the manner in 
which this justly popular author speaks, it would ap- 
pear he had not elsewhere met with this coccus ; but 

t hilr.i. 197. 





it is by no means of rare occurrence, and may be found 
on most currant-bushes, and often on hawthorns, &c. 
around London. Tiie envelope of the egj^s is of a 
chestnut- brown colour. 

A much more singular species occurs in company 
with the preceding, and abounds on the currant- 
bushes at Lee. From their resemblance to the form 
of one of the valves of a mussel-shell, Reaumur 
named this species en coqnille (Coccus coiichiformis, 
Gmelin). He says, it imposed uj)on him for several 
years, as he supposed it to be the cocoon of some 
minute insect about to go into the pupa state ; but he 
was undeceived by finding them full of eggs. We 
were more disposed, at first, to look upon tliem as a 
subcortical fungus (such as Cucurbitaria Berber idis, 
Grev. or Cryptospfifsria Pleridis, Sowertj.), for, 
during the winter, when we first observed them, they 
appeared exactly like a little slip of' the bark elevated 
by the growth of a fungus below it. Then they were 
so crowded on some branches, that not a hair’s breadth 
of the bark remained uncovered. When, however, we 
found these minute bark-like scales full of eggs, we 
were inclined to conjecture that they had been depo- 
sited by saw-flies cutting into the bark ; but this was 
instantly disproved by removing them, and finding the 
bark below sound and uncut. Reaumur put the 
matter, beyond dispute by actually hatching the 
eggs, when insects were produced similar to other 
cocci. But our species, found on the currant-bush, 
seems to differ from his of the elm, not in form and 
colour, but in habit, being gregarious, while his was 
subsolitary 

During the severe frost of 1829*30, we observed 
several small birds, such as the long-tailed titmouse 
(Pams caudaius), and the gold-cresled wren (Rcpi- 

« j.'k. 



 


///.<? cristdtm, ^Ay)y busily peeking the eggs of the 
cocci in the hedges *. 

The resemblance of these singular insects to the 
wood-louse (Onisciis), which is not properly an in- 
sect, but a crustaceous animal, may be traced farther 
than mere external appearance ; for the body of the 
mother, in the latter, also becomes a covering for 
the egg, though she does not die immediately after 
laying as the coccus does, but carries her eggs 
under her breast in small four-valved cells. 

One of the most easily discovered depositions of 
eggs during the winter months are those made by 
various species of spiders, particularly that of the 
large garden-spider (Epcira diadema), which may 
be found in the angles of walls, in form of a ball, 
about the size of a cherry, of beautiful yellow silk, 
and much stronger than the common materials of 
the same spider’s geometric web. This substance 
Rt^aumur endeavoured to bring into use as a substitute 
for silk ; but he was unsuccessful in procuring it in 
fpiantity, owing to the ferocious habits of the spiders, 
which devoured one another when he reared them 
gregariously. As the eggs of spiders have usually a 
thin soft shell, a thick warm envelope of silk is, no 
doubt, essential to their weathering the colds of 
winter, notwithstanding the sheltered corners where 
they are usually placed. Some species weave these 
little silken nests in a very elegant form. We possess 
one of the pyriform shape of a balloon, the texture 
of which is close and netted with diagonal meshes. 
One, somewhat in form of a drinking-glass, is figured 
in Loudon’s Magazine of Natural History, as having 
been found near Wandsworth, attached to the stein 
of a rush growing in water. 

There was a deposition of eggs at the bottom, the 
rest of the space being vacant. De Geer describes 





similar spiders^ nests attached to the stems of j^ss * ; 
and we once found a larj^e one of an elongated 
shape, and composed of very white silk, on a spike of 
grass at Compton-B asset, Wiltshire t- 



Spiders* nests. 

The vapourer {Orgyia antiqua, Ociisenh.), a com- 
mon moth, takes advantage of the warm silken enve- 
lope of the pupa-case, from which she has escaped a 
few days before, to form a bed for her eggs. In our 
earlier studies of insect economy we were inclined to 
ascribe to accident the deposition of the eggs in this 
particular situation, but we have found so many 
instances of it as to reject the explanation. Swam- 
merdam also observes, that “ this custom of fastening 
the eggs to the web in a constant method, and 
by the immutable law of nature, is so peculiar 
to this species of insects, that I have never ob- 
served it in any other kind whatsoever. This 
female,” he subjoins, “like a most prudent house- 
wife, never leaves her habitation, but is always 
fixing her eggs to the surface of the web out 
of which she has herself crept, thus affording a 
beautiful instance of industrious housewifery];.” One 
? De Geer, Mem., vol. \ii. pp. ‘227 — 9. f J. R. 

t Swammerdam, pt. ii. page 7. 





reason for this is, that the female of this moth 
having; only the rudiments of wing;s, a peculiarity 
remarkable in several other moths, she cannot shift 
so readily about. But whatever may be the real 
cause, there can be no doubt that the web serves to 
keep the eg;g;s warm during; winter ; for though they 
are placed on the outside of the web, the whole is 
usually under some projection of a wall or arm of a 
tree, and the non-conducting property of the silk, 
both with regard to heat and electricity, must be of 
great benefit to the eggs in })rcserving them in an 
equable temperature, and of course promoting their 
early hatching. 



VaponrerMoth (Or^;/ia antiqua\mhh and feniale, the latter 
without winps ; with the ejrgs laid upon^the silken cocoon from 
which the mother has issued. 


We cannot better conclude these imperfect sketches 
of the hybernation of insect eggs, than by an ac- 
count of the ingenious experiments made by 
Spallanzani and John Hunter, by exposing several 
species of these to great degrees of cold as well 
as of heat. It results from these experiments that 
“ intense cold,’’ to use the words of Spallanzani, 
“ does not destroy the eggs of insects. The year 
1709, when Fahrenheit’s thermometer fell to 1°, 
is celebrated for its rigour and its fatal effects on 
plants and animals. Who can believe, exclaims 
Boerhaave, that the severity of this winter did not 
destroy the eggs of insects, especially those exposed 
to its iiillueiice in the open fields, on the naked 





earth, or on the branches of trees ? Yet, when the 
springs had tempered the air, these ej^gs produced as 
they usually did alter the mildest winters. Since that 
period there have been winters more severe. In 
France, durini^ December, 1788, the thermometer 
fell considerably lower, and in several other tempe- 
rate European climates. 

“ I have exposed e^gs to a more rigorous trial 
than the winter of* 1709. Those of several insects, 
and among others the silk-worm, moth, and elm 
butterfly (l^aiiessa polychloros?) were inclosed in a 
glass vessel and buried five hours in a mixture of ice 
and sal gem (rock salt) ; the thermometer fell 6^ 
below zero. In the middle of the following spring, 
however, caterpillars came from all the eggs, and 
at the same time as from those that had sutt'ered no 
cold. Ill the following year, I submitted them to an 
experiment still more hazardous. A. mixture of ice 
and sal gem with the fuming spirit of nitre (Nitrate 
of Ammonia)^ reduced the thermometer 22^ below 
zero, that is 23^ lower than the cold of 1709. 
They were not injured, as I had evident proof 
by their being hatched. 

“ Combining all these facts, we conclude that cold 
is less noxious to germs and eggs, than to animalcula 
and insects. Germs in general can support 2*^ 
below zero ; whereas of animalcula some die at the 
freezing point, and some at about 20°. Tiie eggs 
of many insects continue fertile after being subjected 
to a temperature of 22° below zero, while insects 
themselves die at 16° and 14°. Tliis I have ascer- 
tained in the eggs of the silk-worm moth and of the 
elm butterfly; and although there are caterpillars 
and chrysalides able to resist great cold, 1 have uni- 
formly found it to be in a less degree than what can 
be resisted by their eggs. What can be the cause of 
so great a ditference? Insects killed at 16^ and 14° 





are so penetrated and frozen by the cold, that their 
members do not yield to the pressure of the ftiij^er, 
and seem perfect ice under tlie knife. This does 
not happen to eggs, though subjected to cold of 
much «;reater intensity. Their contents remain fluid, 
even at the c^reatest cold, as may be seen by crn shin 
them with the nail. Perhaps this is derived from 
constituent spirituous or oleaj^inous parts, or from 
some principle ada})ted to abate the power of cold*. 
If eg’gs do not freeze, it is probable the included 
embryos do not freeze. Is there anything won- 
derful, therefore, that they then survive cold which 
is fatal to them when produced ? Probably for the 
same reason (and I see no objection tliat can apply), 
anirnalcula, concentrated in the germ, can support a 
decree of cold they are incapable of when developed. 

“As the temperature of freezing; still retains a 
portion of heat, why, it may be asked, should it not 
develope the germs of the most minute anirnalcula ? 
Had we never seen any eggs hatched but those of 
birds, which require 104*^, wc should have concluded 
that all others require the same. A little initiation 
into the study of minute animals teaches how many 
kinds produce at a tem])erature infinitely less. Such 
are the eggs of butterflies and many otlier insects, of 
frogs, lizards, tortoises, down to some, as those ol’ 
toads, which I have seen produce at 45^^ If these 
eggs hatch at 59^ less than is rc(juired by those of 
birds, what repugnance will there be to sui)pose that 
at 13° less, or the freezing point, the eggs of other 
animals may be hatched ? Nor should it surprise me 
to be told of animals whose eggs would produce at 
much greater cold, after knowing that there are plants, 
beings so similar to animals, and many of them, 

? In plain language, Spallanzani did not know vv hat to make of 
the facts. 


K 


 


which amidst the rigours of winter flourish and fruc- 
tify*.” 

It is remarked by John Hunter that an egg will 
freeze by a great degree of cold ; at the same time 
there seems to be a living principle which enables it to 
support cold without destruction, and when once that 
principle is destroyed, cold more easily operates. An 
egg was thus frozen by the cold of zero ; after thaw- 
ing and again exposing it to the same degree of cold, 
it froze seven minutes and a half sooner. A new-laid 
egg took an hour to freeze in 15° and 17°, but when 
thawed, it froze at 25° in half the timet* 

The principle of vitality, therefore, whatever may be 
the cause, is evidently less easily destroyed in the egg 
state than in the perfect animal; and therefore the 
inference that a rigorous winter promises a diminution 
of insects in the summer succeeding commonly proves 
erroneous. On the contrary, recorded facts prove that 
they are sometimes even more abundant than usual 
after severe frosts. During the present spring of 
1830, accordingly, notwithstanding the severe frosts 
of the preceding winter, we have observed a much 
greater number of insects, even of the smaller and 
more delicate kinds {Aleyrodes, CorethrUy Alvcitay 
&c.) as well as of larvae, both those just hatched, and 
those which have lived through the winter, than last 
year, when the frost was not so severe. We were 
particularly struck with the larvae of some small 
tipula which we found in abundance 

in Birch Wood, Kent, feeding on a fungus (Boletus 
fomentarius. Fries), and which were so beautifully 
transparent and soft, that we could not understand 
how they had escaped being frozen. It is not a 
little remarkable, in connexion with this, that the 

* Spallanzani’s Tracts, transl. by Dalyell; vol, i, p, 63. 

t Hunter ou the Animal Economy, 






minatory birds seem to have been aware of this 
abundance of insects by their appearing earlier than 
usual. We saw a pair of nightingales at Greenhithe 
on the 21st of March, and a number of swallows the 
same week at Lee, — which is two or three weeks be- 
fore their average time*. 






Hatching of Insect Eggs. 

The contents of an ee^e^ principally consist of 
nutriment adapted to the diflerent parts of the 
germ which it contains — the yolk for nourishing 
the soft parts ; the white, lor the blood and other 
fluids ; and the shell, lor the bones. In the case of 
insects, as well as of birds, fishes, and reptiles, the 
embryo is placed in the most advantageous posi- 
tion for partaking of the repast, — namely, in a parti- 
cular corner where it may breathe fresh air always 
communicated to the chamber ol‘ the egg by ^en- 
tilatory passages in the shell ; if these be shut up, 
by covering the egg with grease, varnish, or chalk, 
it is suffocated and dies. In the case of birds, 
according to Malpighi and the older physiologists 
the rudiment of the chick, while still a minute point, is 
lodged on the film that envelopes the yolk, near the 
centre of the egg ; and, — as the floating wick of a 
mariner’s lamp is constantly preserved upon a level 
with the surface by the mobility oi’ the slings and the 
weight of the oil-vcssel tending downwards, how- 
ever the ship move, — there is an ingenious natural 
mechanism, which prevents the embryo chick from 
being upset when the egg is stirred. The yolk is 
sustained by two membranous ribbons, visible at the 
aperture of the egg, and fastening it on each side to 
the common membrane glued to the shell. These 
suspensory bands being fixed above the centre of the 

?Malpighi, dc Ovo incubato; Lceuwenhoeck, Epist. phys, 
xl. j and Harvey, in Willoughhy’.s Ornilhol, c. iii. 






yolk, of course the more weig^hty part always de- 
scends, in every position of the as far as they 
will permit, and the chick being: thence prevented 
from sliding down, nourishes itself in security. 

We cannot, on account of their minuteness, ascer- 
tain whether there is any similar mechanical contriv- 
ance in the eg:^s of insects; but we have in several 
instances distinctly observed the speck where the 
embryo insect was placed just within the shell of 
the e^^. In order to stimulate it to feast and 
fatten on the g:ood things stored up in his ej^g:-shell 
chamber, it appears that a certain degpree of heat 
is indispensably requisite; for cold, though it does 
not usually, as we have seen, kill the embryo, almost 
always renders it toqiid. But the stimulus of 
heat produces activity in the livinp: principle, causes 
the embryo to devour all the nutritive contents of the 
eg-g:, and thence to increase proportionably in size. 
It is worthy of remark, however, that the stimulus of 
lig:ht, contrary to that of heat, acts unfavourably upon 
the hatching: of eg:g:s. Both of these positions may 
be illustrated by numerous facts and experiments. 

Most birds, so far as has been ascertained, supply 
the heat necessary for hatching: their eg:g;s by sitting; 
constantly upon them during: a certain number of 
days ; but reptiles, such as the crocodile, bury their 
eg:^s in the warm sand upon the banks of rivers. 
Insects, attain, seldom, if ever, sit upon their eg:f^s, as 
birds do, in order to hatch them. This, indeed, 
would be impossible, as the g;reater number of insects 
die ill a few days after depositing; their eg:g;s, the con- 
tinuation of the species being: apparently their only 
business in their last or perfect stag:e ; since, as they 
then £^enerally cease to feed, they cannot possibly live 
long:. A few instances, however, have been observed, 
of insects performing; something very similar to the 




incubation of birds, thoup^h we have the hip^h authority 
of Fabricius, that “ insects never sit upon their eg;p;s 
Upon the incontestable statements of two dis- 
tinp;uished observers of insects, Frisch t and De 
Geer, the female of the common earwig {Forjimla 
auricularia^ Linim.) sits upon her eggs. This 
circumstance, however, seems to have escaped the 
notice of other naturalists, though her attentions to 
her young ones is often witnessed. De Geer disco- 
vered a feinale earwig in the beginning of April 
under some stones, and brooding over a number of 
eggs, of whose safety she appeared to be not a little 
jealous. In order to study her proceedings the better, 
he placed her in a nursc-box filled with fresh earth, 
and scattered the eggs in it at random. She was not 
long, however, in collecting them with all care into 
one spot, caiTying them one by one in her mandibles, 
and placing herseli'over them. She never left them 
for a moment, sitting as assiduously as a bird does 
while hatching. In about five or six weeks the grubs 
were hatched, and were then of a whitish colour 
At another time, in the beginning of June, De 
Geer found under a stone a female earwig accompa- 
nied with a numerous brood of young, to all appear- 
ance newly hatched, and nestling under their mother 
like chickens under a hen. These he likewise placed 
in a nurse-box with fresh earth; but instead of burrow- 
ing into the mould, as he had expected, they crowded 
under the bosom and between the legs of their mo- 
ther, who remained quiet and evidently jdeased, suf- 
fering them to continue there for an hour or more at 
a time. He fed both this brood and the one first 
mentioned with bits oi’ripe apple; and perceived that 

* Fabricius, Vbilosoph. Etilomol. Ixxvi. 

f Inscrlen in Dt'utschland, 4lo. 17t)G. 

I De Cicei, Mem., vol. iii. p. 548, 






they p^rew from day to day, and cast their skins, as 
caterpillars do, more than once. The mother did not 
live long, probably in consecpience of confinement ; 
and her progeny devoured nearly the whole of her 
body, as they also did the bodies of their brethren, 
when any of these chanced to die. We may remark, 
in passing, that it is an unfounded popular ])rejudice 
that earwigs get into the brain by creeping into the 
ear ; for though, from being night insects, and dis- 
liking exposure to the light, tliey may, by chance, 
attempt to take shelter in the ear, the disagreeable 
odour of the wax will soon drive them out: at all 
events they could never get farther than the drum, 
w'hich completely shuts the ])assage to the brain. 
We have known, indeed, a small beetle, get into the 
ear; but it did no further injury than produce a 
strjinge tingling sensation by crawling about the 
drum, and soon made its exit"^. A little red insect 
(the harvest-bug?) sometimes gets into the ear in 
bed, and produces wonderful commotion, but no real 
injury. 



Drum of the car, shewing that there is no passage through it to 
the hrain. 


Kirby and Spence are inclined to infer that a tree 
bug {Acanihosoma Stephens) may also sit 





upon its e^^s because De Geer found a mother of 
this species surrounded with a brood of thirty or forty 
younj^ ones following her as chickens follow a hen. 
She never leaves her family; but as soon as she 
moves, all the young ones closely follow, and as- 
semble around her in a cluster wherever she makes 
a halt. De Geer once cut a branch of birch, upon 
which a family of these bugs had assembled, and the 
mother shewed every symptom of fear and distress. 
Had she not had a family to protect, she would have 
taken immediate tlight ; but instead of this, she kept 
beating her wings rapidly and incessantly, and never 
stirred from her young. But even all this, affec- 
tionately maternal as it must be considered, is far 
from authorizing the conclusion that she sits upon 
her eggs ; though it is certain she must remain near 
them till they are hatched, unless she belong to 
those mentioned by Busch as ovo- viviparous f. 

One of the most common instances of something 
similar to birds hatching their eggs occurs in several 
species of spiders, which may he seen sitting near 
or upon the silken bag in which they have inclosed 
their eggs. Many of these mothers, however, die 
before their young are hatched, — all of them, per- 
haps, when the eggs are laid late in autumn. During 
the winter of lS’^y-30, we watched a considerable 
number of the geometric spiders {Epeirye) brooding 
over their eggs for several weeks ; but though the 
weather before Christmas was little more than an 
average degree of coldness, every one of them died, 
some living a longer time, and others a shorter^. But 
this is not the case with a very common wandering 
spider called by Dr. Lister the wolf (Lycom saccata, 
Latr.), Rttd first observed, we believe, by the cele- 
brated Harvey §. “ In order,” says Swammerdam, “ to 

Jl-' Iiilro. i. 35S, and iii. 101. 

f Scliiieider, Eur();)iiischc Schinetterlingc, i. 20G. J.R. 
llarvfy, Dii fjcncralionc. 





hatch her eggs the better, she carries them about as 
it were in a case, with wonderful solicitude and affec- 
tion; insomuch, that when the skin forming this case, 
which hangs to the hinder part of her body, is by 
any accident broken off, the little insect seeks after 
it with as much earnestness and industry as a hen for 
her lost chickens, and when found fastens it again 
to its place with the greatest marks of joy 

Bonnet has given a more detailed account of 
the manners of this spider, which, though no less 
fierce and ferocious in as])ect than her congeners, 
manifests an extraordinary change of mien when 
forcibly dejnived of her eggs. Then she instantly 
appears tame, stops to look around her, and begins 
to walk at a slow pace, and search on every side for 
what she has lost, nor will she even fly when one 
threatens to seize her. But should the exj)erimenter, 
moved with compassion, restore her bag of eggs, she 
catches it up with all haste, and darts away in a mo- 
ment ; or, when left undisturbed, will leisurely attach 
it again to her body. 

“ With a view,’* continues Bonnet, “ to put 
this singular attachment to a novel test, I one day 
threw a spider with her eggs into the pit-fall of an 
ant-lion (Jdyrmdion formicarivin) t. The spider en- 
deavoured to escape, and was eagerly remounting the 
side of the ])it, when 1 again tumbled her to the 
bottom, and the ant-lion, more nimble than the first 
time, seized the bag of eggs with its mandibles, and 
attempted to drag it under the sand. The spider, on 
the other hand, made the most strenuous efforts to 
keep her hold, and struggled hard to defeat the aim 
of the concealed depredator; but the gum which 
fastened her bag, not being calculated to withstand 
such violence, at length gave way, and the ant-lion 

* Book of Nature, pt. i. p. 24. 

f See Insect Architecture, p.209. 






was about to carry off the prize in triumph. The 
spider, however, instantly reg:ained it with her man- 
dibles, and redoubled her endeavours to snatch the 
bag from her enemy ; but her efforts were vain, for 
the ant-lion, being the stronger, succeeded in dragging 
it under the sand. The unfortunate mother, now 
robbed of her eggs, might have at least saved her 
own life, as she could easily have escaped out of the 
pit-fall ; but, wonderful to tell, she chose rather to 
be buried alive along with her eggs. As the sand 
concealed from my view what was passing below, I 
laid hold of the spider, leaving the bag in the power 
of the ant-lion. But the affectionate mother, de- 
prived of her bag, would not quit the spot where she 
had lost them, though I repeatedly pushed her with 
a twig. Life itself seemed to have become a burden 
to her since all her hopes and pleasures were gone for 
ever*.” 

That some portion of heat may be communicated 
to the eggs of the spider, which are thus carried so 
assiduously under her body, is highly probable ; and 
it is also, no doubt, advantageous to the young, when 
hatched, to have the assistance of their mother to open 
the bag for them, as was remarked by De Geerf; 
“ without which,” say Kirby and Spence, “ they 
could never escape J.” But that neither of these are 
indispensable conditions we have ascertained by re- 
peated experiments. We have taken a considerable 
number of these egg-bags from their mothers, and 
put them under inverted wine-glasses and into pill- 
boxes, and ill every instance the young have been 
duly hatched, and made their way without assistance 
out of the bag. In all these experiments, the young 
spiders joined in concert in making a web across their 
prison; a circumstance at variance with the assertion, 

* Bonnet, (Kuxres, vol. ii. p. 435. 

f De Geer, Mem. vol. vii. p, 194. Introd. i. p. 361. 






copied from Lister into most subsequent works on 
natural history, that this species never spins a web. 
They might not indeed have done so if they had been 
left at liberty*. 

A spider of the same species, which Bonnet kept 
under an inverted glass, at first was so exceedingly 
attached to her bag of eggs, that he could not beat 
her away from it after it was detached. “ By and 
bye,” he continues, “ I observed with surprise that 
she had abandoned and kept aloof from the vei^ bag 
which she had previously defended with so much cou- 
rage and address ; and I marvelled still more to see 
her run away from it when 1 placed it near her. I 
remarked at the same time that she had become less 
agile, seemingly in consequence of sickness. By 
more close observation, I discovered that several of 
the young ones were hatched, and their numbers 
increased by degrees, while all ran towards their 
mother and climbed upon her body. Some placed 
themselves on her back, some on her head, and some 
on her limbs, so that she was literally covered with 
them, and appeared to bend under the weight, not so 
much from being over-loaded, as from her feeble con- 
dition ; and indeed she soon afterwards died. The 
young spiders remained in a group upon the body 
of their mother, which they did not abandon for some 
time, and for the purpose, as I was half inclined 
(pardon the odious supposition) to think, of sucking 
the juices of her bodyf.” 

In order to prove whether a spider of this species 
could distinguish her own egg-bag from that of a 
stranger, we interchanged the bags of two individuals, 
which we had put under inverted wine-glasses ; but 
both manifested great uneasiness, and would not 
touch the strange bags. We then introd\iced one of 
the mothers into the glass containing her eggs and 

* J, lit f Bonnet; CEuvreS;Vol. ii. p. 440, 






the other spider ; but even then she did not take to 
them, which we attributed to the ])resence of the other, 
as all spiders nourish mutual enmity. Upon remov- 
ing the stranger, however, she shewed the same in- 
ditference to her efij’^s as before, and we concluded, 
that, after having* lost sitrht of them for a short time, 
she was no lono’cr able to recognize them*. 

A more e\traordinai*y method of hatching; e2:g:s 
occurs in several insects, thence termed ovo-vivipa- 
rous, which retain the eg;g;s within their bodies till they 
arc hatched ; and in this way they appear, like larg’er 
animals, to produce young; instead of eg’g^s. We do 
not here allude to the cocheiiille insects formerly men- 
tioned ; for though these cover their eo-g;s with their 
bodies, it is after they are laid and imbeclded in g*os- 
samer. Neither can these sing;ular insects be properly 
said to sit upon their eg*gs, inasmuch as the mother 
always dies when she has finished laying’. 

The guffer (Blenuivs ovo-viviparus, Lacepede), 
a British sea-fish, common under stones at low-water 
anark, affords an instance of this singular mode of the 
eggs being hatched in the body of the mother; and it 
is remarkable that when the young are ready to 
a])pear, she leaves her usual haunts on the coast, and 
goes farther out to sea, that they may be out of the 
reach of their natural enemies f. Our common viper 
(^Coluber ben/s, Linn.) is also ovo-viviparous, as arc 
several other reptiles ; though it is an exception to the 
general rule in this class. We caught a female of the 
nimble lizard (Lacerta agilis^ Linn.) on a heath 
near Sorn, Ayrshire, in July, and kept it for some time 
under a glass, where it produced six young ones ; but 
in couseipience of improper food, or ol‘ confinement, 
they all soon died J. This lizard is said to be some- 
times oviparous. The observations also of the elder 


* J.R. 


f LacepCde; Poissons, ii, p. 497. 


+ J.R. 





naturalists with respect to the scorpion’s being ovo- 
viviparous, have been recently verified by Leon 
Dufour^, a living French naturalist, distinguished for 
acuteness and accuracy. 

In the case of insects, it was first discovered by 
Redi, the father of experimental entomology, that, 
though the greater number of flies lay eggs, some 
also bring forth their young alive ; and he was thence 
led to put the question, whether such flies, under dif- 
ferent circumstances of temperature, do not sometimes 
produce young, and at other times deposit eggsf. 
He might as well, says Rt^aumur, have asked whe- 
ther, in certain circumstances, a hen, instead of laying 
eggs, should bring forth chickens. The fact, on the con- 
trary, has been ascertained by Reaumur, and recently 
confirmed by DufourJ, that the ovo- viviparous insects 
are furnished with an abdominal pouch, in which the 
eggs arc deposited by the mother previous to their 
being hatched. In this respect they afford a striking 
analogy with the kangaroo, the opossum, and other 
marsupial quadriqieds, which are furnished with a 
similar pouch for protecting their young in the first 
stage of their existence. One of our most common 
flies exemjilifies this. 

It may not have occurred to many of our readers 
that there are more sorts than one of the large flies 
usually ca. ed blow-flies and flesh flies. One of these, 
distinguisheci by its brilliant shining green colour and 
black legs {Musca CcRmr, Linn.), we have adverted 
to§ in recounting the experiments of Redi; another, 
frequently called the blue-bottle {Musca vomilona, 
Linn.), is easily distinguished by the abdomen being 
of a shining blue, the shoulders black, and the forehead 
fox -coloured. The insect, however, to which we wish to 
call attention at present, though nearly the size of the 

* Nouv. Diet. d’ Hist. Nat., xxx.426. 

f Redi, Esperienze intorno alia Gen.degf Insetti, 4to. 16G8. 

J Annales des Sciences Naturelles. § Page 3. 






blue-bottle, rather longer and more slender, and black, 
with lighter stripes on the shoulders, is not blue in the 
abdomen, but greyish black, and all over chequered 
with squares of' a lighter colour. This chequered blow- 
fly (^Sarcophapra enniaria, Meigp.n) does not even 
belong to the same genus as the preceding, and differs 
from it in the remarkable circumstance of hatching 
its eggs in an abdominal pouch, and instead of eggs 
depositing maggots upon dead carcasses. The eggs 
of all the flesh flies are in sultry weather hatched with 
great rapidity ; but in the case of the chequered blow-fly, 
nature has provided the means of still more rapid de- 
struction for removing the offensive parts of carcasses. 
The arrangement of the numerous minute larvce in 
the pouch is very remarkable, and resembles the coil 
of a watch-spring, or a roll of ribbon. Reaumur 
had the patience and perseverance to uncoil this mul- 
titudinous assemblage of flies in embryo, and found it 
about two inches and a half in length, though the 
body of the mother-fly herself was only about one- 



A, the chequered Llow-fly. B, the abdomen of the cliequered 
blow fly, opeiJi-d and magtulied, thewing ihecoil of young larvae. 
C, the coil of larvse partly unwound. 





third of an inch, and he computed that there were 
about 20,000 younj^ in the coil When this extra- 
ordinary fecundity is considered, wc need not wonder 
at the countless swarms which appear as if by magic 
upon a joint of meal during hot weather. 

Like most female insects, the mother-fly dies in a 
few days after giving birth U» her numerous brood ; 
but, unlike the oviparous flies, she seems to take a 
considerable lime to deposit the whole. It would be 
impossible indeed for her pouch to contain the larvae 
if they were all hatched at the same time ; and there- 
fore it has been so ordered by Providence that they 
should aiTive at maturity in succession. From the 
early death of the mother, Reaumur conjectured that 
they did not scniplc to eat their way through her 
bowels ; but he disproved his su|)position by a most 
decisive experiment. He took a fly which had already 
deposited a few larvie, and closed the natural opening 
of the pouch with sealing-wax, so that it was impos- 
sible any more could make their exit there. The mo- 
ther lived several days longer than she would have 
done, had she been left at liberty to produce her 
young ; but not one of them attempted to force a 
passage, after being shut up for ten days. 

Another large grey fly with brick-red eye^ (species 





A, pv('v blow fly, with th“ iibilonicn opened, shewing tlie 

yoiui;^ 111 n, brpaiiiiiJi; .iiipaiuiu.-, ol liie iiiaggol ol a 

large grey biuw-fly. 

lleaumuP; Mem. iv. 417. 






not ascertained) was discovered by Reaumur to be 
ovo-viviparous ; but the embiyo flies were not ar- 
ranc^ed in the pouch in the same spiral form as the 
preceding, but longitudinally. These did not appear 
to be quite so numerous ; and they had a peculiar 
breathing apparatus, which, when shut, as it could be 
at pleasure, appeared in the form of a crown. 

Amongst several other ovo-viviparous flies discovered 
by Reaumur, there was a very minute tipulidan gnat 
(species not ascertained) with a jet-black body, white 
wings, and beaded antennae, not larger than the head 
of an ordinary pin, which was bred in great numbers 
from some cows’ dung put into one of his nurse-boxes 
for another purpose. He justly remarks upon this 
circumstance, that “ the minute and the grand are 
nothing, or rather are the same, to the Author of 
nature.’* 

The numerous genus presents the singular 

anomaly of producing eggs in the autumn and living 
young during summer, and, as Curtis tells us, even 
during winter in green-houses. De Geer, however, 
ascertained that it was not the sameindiridual a])hides 
which at one season produced young and at another 
eggs, but d iff (Tent generations''^. By a series of very 
careful and troublesome experiments Bonnet also 
ascertained the curious fact, that in three months nine 
genenitions of these insects may be produced in suc- 
cession, though the males be rigorously excluded from 
the nurse-boxes where the females are isolated. In 
fact all the aphides produced in spring from the eggs 
laid in autumn appear to be females; and no males are 
produced till the end of summer, a short time before 
the eggs are deposited for winter. Among both males 
and females are some with and some without wings, — 
the nature of which distinction does not appear to be 
yet ascertained. 

* De Geer, Mem. des Inscctes, iii, 70. 






Bonnet, however, whose opinion is entitled to 
considerable authority, seems to think that the eggs of 
aphides which are destined to survive the winter are 
very different from other eggs; and he sup])oses that the 
insect, in a state nearly perfect, quits the body of its 
mother in that covering which shelters it from the cold 
in winter, and that it is not, as other germs are in the 
egg, surrounded by food, by means of which it is de- 
veloped and supported. It is nothing more, he con- 
jectures, than an asvlnin of which the aphides ap- 
pearing at another season have no need ; and it is for 
tliis reason that some are produced naked and others 
enveloped in a covering. If this be correct, the mo- 
thers are not then truly oviparous, e\en in autumn, 
when they deposit these pseudo-eggs ; since their young 
are almost as perfect as they e\er will be, in the asy- 
lum in which they are naturally placed at birth. It 
was in vain that Bonnet endeavoured to ])rcserve 
eggs of this sort in his chamber till spring, in conse- 
quence, he imagines, of the want of a certain degree of 
moisture which tiiey would have had out of doors. We 
have been more successful, through the precaution of 
not taking the eggs from their native tree till Febru- 
ary, and in 1830 we had a brood of several hundreds 
produced of the oak aphis {Aphin Qiicrcvs) 

The failure on the part of Bonnet leads us to re- 
mark, with the younger Huber, that ants are more 
skilful in this respect than naturalists, and anxiously 
nurse, during winter, the eggs of aphides, which they 
collect with great care in the autumn. The interest- 
ing naiTative of the discovery of this we shall give in 
Huber’s own words. 

“ One day in November,” says he, “ anxious to 
know if the yellow ants {Formica flava) began to 
bury themselves in their subteiTanean chambers, I de- 
stroyed, with care, one of their habitations, story by 

J.R. 



 


story. I had not advanced far in this attempt, when 
I discovered an apartment containing an assemblage 
of little eggs, which were for the most part of the 
colour of ebony. Several ants surrounded and ap- 
peared to take great care of them, and endeavoured, 
as quickly as possible, to convey them from my sight. 

I seized upon this chamber, its inhabitants, and the 
treasure it contained. 

“ The ants did not abandon these eggs to make 
their escape ; a stronger instinct retained them : they 
hastened to conceal them under the small dwelling 
which I held in my hand, and when 1 reached home, 

I drew them from it, to observe them more attentively. 
Viewed with a microscope, they appeared nearly of 
the form of ants’ eggs, but their colour was entirely 
dilFerent ; the greater part were black ; others were of 
a cloudy yellow. I found them in several ant-hills, 
and obtained them of different degrees in shade ; they 
were not all black and yellow ; some were brown, of a 
slight and also of a brilliant red and white ; others 
were of a colour less distinct, as straw colour, greyish, 
and I remarked that they were not the same colour at 
both extremities. 

“ To observ e them more closely, I placed them in the 
corner of a box faced with glass ; they were collected 
in a heap like the eggs of ants; their guardians seemed 
to value them highly; after having visited them, they 
placed one part in the earth, but I witnessed the at- 
tention they bestowed upon the rest ; they approached 
them, slightly separating their mandibles ; passed their 
tongue between each, extended them, then walked al- 
ternately over them, depositing, 1 believe, a liquid 
substance as they proceeded. They appeared to treat 
them exactly as if they were eggs of their own 
species ; they touched them with their antennae, and 
frequently carried them in their mouths ; they did not 
quit these eggs a single instant ; they took them 





up, turned them, and after having surveyed them 
with affectionate regard, conveyed them with extreme 
tenderness to the little chamber of earth I had placed 
at their disposal. They were not, however, the eggs 
of ants ; we know that these are extremely white, be- 
coming transparent as they increase in age, but never 
acquire a colour essentially different. 1 was, tor a 
long time, unacquainted with the origin of those of 
which 1 have just spoken, and by chance discovered 
they contained little aphides ; but it was not these in- 
dividual eggs 1 saw them quit ; it was other eggs 
which were a little larger, found in the nests of yellow 
ants, and of a particular species. On opening an ant- 
hill, I discovered several chambers containing a great 
number of brown eggs, of which the ants were ex- 
tremely jealous, carrying them with the utmost expe- 
dition to the bottom of the nest, dis])iitiiig and con- 
tending for them with a zeal which left me no doubt 
of the strong attachment with which they regard 
them. 

“ Desirous of conciliating their interests, as well as 
my own, I took the ants and their treasure, and placed 
them in such a manner that J might easily observe 
them. These eggs were never abandoned. The ants 
took the same care of them as the limner. The fol- 
lowing day 1 saw one of these eggs open, and an 
aphis fully formed, having a large trunk, quit it. I 
knew it to be a puceron of the oak : the others were 
disclosed a few da^s after, and the greater number in 
my presence. They set iinmediaieiy about sucking* 
the juice from some branches of the tree 1 gave them, 
and the ants now found, within their reach, a recom- 
pense for their care and attention. The ant-hill whence 
these eggs had been taken was situated at the foot of 
an oak, which readily accounts lor their existence in 
that place. I discovered them in the spring ; the pu- 
cerons which quitted them were very large for insects 






just born, but they had not yet obtained their full 
size^.** 

It is not, however, the aphides themselves who select 
the siiug^ winter retreat of an ant-hill, or who know 
how to secure the careful nursing* of the ants. All 
this is the sole concern of the latter, to secure for them- 
selves a supply of the honey-dew, as it is erroneously 
called, secreted by the aphides in spring. The ants, 
it may be proper to remark, take similar care of their 
own eggs (as well as of their cocoons, popularly sup- 
posed to be their eggs), as was remarked by Sir E. 
King, in the reign of Charles II. lie informs us that 
they diligently gather together in a heap their true 
eggs, which are small and white like the granules of 
lump sugar, and upon these eggs they lie in multi- 
tudes, “ I suppose,” says Derham, “ by way of in- 
cubation t-” “ I have observed,” adds Sir E. King, 

“ in summer, that in the morning they bring up those 
of their young called ant-eggs (rocoo/is) towards the 
loj) of the bank, so that you may, from ten o’clock till 
five or six in the afternoon, find them near the top,^ — 
for the most part on the south side. But towards 
seven or eight at night, if it be cool, or likely to rain, 
yon may dig a loot deep before you can find themj.” 

An interesting family of two-winged flies {Hip- 
pohoscidfF, Leach) resemble the aphides in some 
points of their economy, though in others they are 
singularly peculiar. Reaumur discovered, what has 
been recently confirmed by Dufour and others, that 
the mothers not only hatch their eggs within the body, 
but retain them there till they are changed into chry- 
salides. Reaumur gives a lively narrative of his 
discov ery, and the solicitude of his serv ants to find him 
female flies ready to dej)Osit what he at first took for 

* M. P. Huber on Ants, p. 245. 
f Derham, Phys. Theol. ii. 207. llth ed, 

$ Phil. Trans. No. xxiii. 






e^^s. He was so anxious to hatch those supposed 
ec^jrs that he carried them in his pocket by day and 
took them to bed with him at ni2:ht, (as Bonnet 
afterwards did with the eggs of a])hides,) for several 
weeks successively ; but instead of grubs, as he had 
expected, perfect flies were evolved exactly similar to 
their parents. He calls them spider flies, from their 
resemblance to spiders ; and in some parts of France 
the species which infests horses (Hippohosca equina) 
is called the Spaniard or Breton : in England it is 
too well known under the name of the Ibrest fly. 



Spuk'r flies ( IhppvbosridcF, J.vach, ) 

We have the more wdllingly introduced this sub- 
ject here, that another fly {Craio'ina Hlrundinis^ 
Olfeus), of the same family, has the instinct to de- 
posit its egg-like cocoons in the warm feathery nest of 
swallows, where they have all the necessary heat 
which Reaumur, in his experiments, was so careful 
to maintain. In return for the warmth which the 
young has thus received, the j)eifect fly, dining its 
brief existence, lives by sucking the lilood of the swal- 
lows, as the one first mentioned sucks the blood of 
horses, horned cattle, and, it is also said, of man. 






The effect of heat upon the of insects has been 
carried much farther than in the experiments just 
alluded to of Reaumur and Bonnet Spallanzani was 
desirous of ascertaiiiino* what dei^ree of heat the e^gs 
of insects and other animals, as well as the seeds of 
plants, would bear when compared with their larvae; 
and he found that below 93*^ Fahr. silk-worms did 
not appear alfccted, but at 95°, and still more at 97°, 
they became restless, while at 99° they ceased to move, 
and all died at 108° The eg’pcs of these, on the 
other hand, long; resisted the influence of heat. At 
80° they were the most productive ; at 99° many still 
appeared, but with considerable diminution, and as 
the heat was increased their fertility decreased, till at 
144° not one was fertile. 'J'he egc^s and caterpillars 
of the elm butterfly (Variesfta po/ychloros?) j)crfectly 
corresponded with those of the silk-worm. In the case 
of the eg^gs of the blow-fly {Mu sea vomitoria) a great 
many produced maggots at 124° ; but at 135° and 
138° very few, and all were sterile at 140° The 
mag’gots })roduced from these eggs became restless at 
88°, and endeavoured to esca})e, and as this heat was 
increased they became i)roportionably more agitated 
till it arose to 108°, when they all perished. Full- 
grown maggots of the same kind all died at 108°; 
but when changed into flies they died when the heat 
was so low as 99°; though their pupje were produc- 
tive at 104° and 100^ but not at 1 1 l°t. 

If these experiments may, as we believe they may, 
be relied on, we have some reason to doubt that “ the 
eggs of the musca vomitoria^ our common blow-fly, 
are oiten,” as Dr. (lood affirms, “ deposited in the 
heat of summer u]K)n putrescent meat, and broiled 
with such meat over a gridiron in the form of steaks, in 
a heat not merely of' 212°, but of' three or four times 
212° ; and yet, instead of being hereby destroyed, we 

See ]n?ect Arcliilccture, p.‘24. 
t Spullanzani, Tracts by Dalyell, vol. i. p.35. 





sometimes find them quickened by this very exposure 
into their larva or gnib state It would have been 
well if some more accurate authority had been given for 
so miraculous a fact than this general staierrient : the 
appearance of maggots on broiled meat, from which the 
inference is apparently made, seems rather to indicate 
that eggs, or more probably ovo-viviparous larva% had 
been deposited there, not before^ but after the broiling. 

One certain result of all such experiments is, that 
eggs are more capable of withstanding heat than the 
animals producing them; and from similar experi- 
ments the same law appears to hold with the seeds 
of plants, which also withstand more heat than 
eggs. Water increases the destructive influence of 
heat. The causes upon which these curious facts 
depend do not ap])ear to be well understood. It is 
certain, however, tljat the life of an animal in the egg 
is feeble, or at least lethargic, in comparison with that 
of the animal produced; and that animals, when in a 
state of very feeble animation, resist external inju- 
ries with more impunity than when very vivacious. 
We once saw a very delicate young girl, emaciated 
with scrofula, have her leg amputated without even 
heaving a sigh; while a robust Irish labourer, who 
underwent the same operation immediately after her, 
roared like a bull. ' 

Experiments prove that the fluids of eggs, and con- 
sequently of their germs, are more abundant than in 
vegetable seeds ; and this excess of fluid may lend to 
destroy the germ more readily, from heat expanding 
the fluids, and thus putting them in motion : for then 
they must strike violently against the tender parts of the 
germs, and rupture and destroy them. Hence seeds 
exposed to heat are killed at lower degrees in water, 
than if dry, in the same way as ice will melt sooner 
in warm water than in air of equal temperature f- 

* Good’s Book of Nature, vol. i. p. 221. 1st edit, 
t Spallanzani, Tracts by Dalyell, vol. i. p. 43. 






In the practical manac^emeiit of the e^^s of the silk- 
worm Count Dandolo directs the temperature of the 
stove-room to be 64° when they are first put in. 
“ The third day the temperature should be raised to 
66° ; the fourth day to 6S° ; the fifth day to 7 i° ; the 
sixth day to 73°; the seventh day to 75°; the 
eighth day to 77°; the ninth day to 80°; the tenth, 
eleventh, and twelfth days to 82° When the tempe- 
rature of the sto\ e-room is raised to 75°, it is advan- 
tageous to have two dishes, in which water may be 
poured, so as to offer a surface of nearly four inches 
diameter. In four days there will iiave taken place 
an evaporation of nearly twelve ounces of water; the 
vapour, which rises very slowly, moderates the dry- 
ness which might occur in the stove-house, particu- 
larly during a northerly wind : very dry air is not 
favourable to the development of the silk-worm*.’^ 
Damp or stagnant air, or sudden changes of tempera- 
ture, either high or low, are exceedingly injurious to 
the hatching of eggs. 

From some very curious experiments of Miche- 
lotti, it appears that exposure to light is by no means 
favourable to the hatching of eggs. This ingenious 
naturalist inclosed a number of eggs in glass vessels, 
admitting the light to one series and excluding it 
from another, similar in every other particular. The 
result was, that few or none of the eggs exposed to 
light were hatched, while those in tiie dark were 
almost all fertile, lie arrived at the same results in 
his experiments upon vegetable seeds t* Kirby and 
Spence justly remark, that these curious facts may 
account for so many insects fastening their eggs to the 
under sides of leaves, and may be the final cause of 
the opaque horny texture of those exposed in full day J. 

Among the singular circumstances in which insects 
differ from the larger animals, we may reckon that 

'’Count Dandolo, on Silk-Worms, Eng. trans., p. 55. 

f Philosophical Mag. vol. ix. p. 244. J Introduc. iii. p. 77. 





of the echo’s of some increasinir in size durinp;* the pro- 
cess of hatching. The facta^jpears to have first been 
noticed by the celebrated Vallisnieri in his observa- 
tions on saw flies {Tenthredinidce^ Leach) Other 
instances were subsequently discovered by Reau- 
mur, De Geer, Derham, Rosel, and the youno;er 
Huber. “ It oua:ht not,” says Reaumur, speakino* of 
gall flies {(hjnipida^, Westwood), “ to be passed in 
silence, that the egg which I found in the gall appeared 
to me considerably larger than the eggs of the same 
species when they proceed from the body of the fly, 
or even when they are taken from the mother fly 
near the time of their being laid. The whole of 
those I look from the mother flies which 1 killed were 



Generation of a water-inite (^Ih/dravhna nhstergens'). 
a a, the water scorpion, iii whose body the mite lixes her egCT'^- 
h b, a inapiitied view of one ol it.s claws, c, a tooth lihe process 
for restraining; tlie motion of the joint, rf, the wafer- mite, c, a 
greatly iiiagnitied view of one of its eggs, f, the hook by winch 
It IS inserted into the body of the scorpion. 

See Insect Architecture, pp. 157-8. 

 


remarkably small ; and I thence inferred that the e^c^ 
would have, and indeed had, increased in the gallV* 

Rosel made a similar observation on the red eggs 
of a water-mite {Hydrachna absiergei^s) ; and he was 
induced to suppose (justly, as we think) that, as they 
are deposited upon the bodies of water-scorpions 
{Nepidfp, J^EACii), they derive their means of in- 
crease from thcmt- Geer remarked that the 
water-scorpions, when much inlested with them, be- 
came ^’ra(lually weakened as the ec^gs increased in 
size 

Huber the youno-cr, in the course of his experi- 
ments, discovered tliat the ec:p:s of ants, from being 
small and o})acjue, became comparatively large and 
transparent. “To be convinced of the truth of this,’’ 
he says, “ I viewed those eggs with the microscope. 
I also measured them, and having sejiarated them 
from each other, found the longest to be those only 
in which the grubs were hatched in my presence. 
If 1 removed them from the workers, belbre they 
attained their lull length and transparency, they 
dried up, and the grubs never quitted them.” 
Huber is inclined to attribute this remarkable in- 
crease and transparency to the humidity imparted to 
them by the working ants who so assiduously pass 
them through their mouths. “ For,’' he adds, “if they 
be not surrounded with a liquid, or jireserved from the 
influence of the external air, their pellicle, moistened 
every instant by the workers, may preserve a certain 
degree of siqipleness and expansibility, according 
to the development of the included grub§.” 

The most minute observations, however, of this 
kind, which have hitherto been jiiiblished, were made 

* Reaumur, Mem. vol. iii. p. 479. 
f Kosel, InseclctJ. vol. iii. p. 152. 

X De Geer, Mern. des In^ectcs, vol. vii. p. 145. 

§ M. P, Huber on Ants, p, 72, 






by Heroldt on the egf?s of the garden spider (Epeira 
diadema), to which we formerly alluded. He divides 
the process of hatching into twelve periods, according 
to the proo;ress of development. This ])roo;ress is not 
measured by time, as has been done in experimenting 
on the of birds. The «erm, or cicatricula, which 
is composed of minute «Tanules, when placeil in a 
due temperature, begins to expand towards the extre- 
mity of the till it takes the form of a comet, 

whose nucleus is the centre of the sferm, and whose 
tail consists of transparent globules. On continuing 
to expand, or rather to dis])erse its granules, they 
appear to be decom]M)sed into imperceptible molecules, 
producing a sort of translucent cloud, through which 
the globules of the jolk may be distinguished. The 
place which the germ previously occu})ied appears as 
a single transjDarent point. The cloudy matter » 
next accumulates round the centre of the germ, 
assumes a pearly aspect, and becomes solid and 
opacpie. This is the rudiment of the embryo sjfider, 
the outline of whose head and body becomes ap])a- 
rent, occupying a little more than a fourth of the egg. 
At first this embryo a])pears homogeneous, but by and 
bye four little archlets arc seen, which are the rudi- 
ments of the legs, and at the same time the outlines 
of the mandibles are formed. The whole seems to 
derive nourishment from the yolk, in which it is rooted 
as a parasite ])lanl u])on a tree. When the embryo 
spider is near its exclusion, it completely fills the interior 
of the egg, the shell of which moulds itself closely 
around the body, and it looks like the n)m])hof a 
beetle^. When suniciently developed, it makes a rent 
in the shell, as was first observed by De Geer, oppo- 
site the breast, through which it pushes its head, and 
successively disengages its bodv ; but the shell still 
envelopes the legs and feet, and it is not without a 
* Hejoldt, lixercit. de Gcner. Aranearuin in 0\o. 

 


^reat deal of trouble, by alternately stretchins^ out and 
contractiiis^ them, that it succeeds in rending this, and 
sets itsell’at liberty*. Even then the younp; spider can 
neither spin a web nor catch prey ; for it is still en- 
veloped in an extremely delicate membrane, which it 
docs not moult unless the weather is favourable and 

finef. 



Iliitching: of tho of Ihf t[fiY(\cn $pn]er (Epcira diadema), rt, 
natunil size, h, luaj^nilied, tlie cicatruMila (a white s])()t ) in the 
front, C, till' tterin eiilarped ; n, the head, and hy the body ot the 
embryo, d, the embryo spider ready to east ofl’ its first skin. 

The hitter circumstance will enable us to explain 
some experiments made by Eedi, who kept spiders 
newly hatched for many months without food In the 
experiments made by us upon thee«;^s of the wolf spider 
{Lycosa sarcata), we more than once kept the >oung 
in boxes, wlicre they were foro'otten and without food ; 
and we uniformly linuid that they remained lively and 
well so lon«; as they did not cast their embr)o skin; 
but when they did moult, they could not long* survive 
the want of sustenance §. 

In the cg’gs of moths, the embryo, previous to ex- 
clusion, may be seen throug’h the shell, snugly coiled 

4: De Geer, Mem. Aii., p. I'Jti. 
f Diet. Ciassique d’Hisl. Nat. xii. 141. 

J Kedi, Esperienze, 99. J. R. 







up in a ririp:, as is distinctly shewn in many of the 
beautiful and accurate figures of Sepp^. 



effg of llie privet liawlj moth { Sphtn.r Tjiqu^fri') wdgri\Redt 
shewing the inelosed embryo, b, ihe caterpillar, when grown. 

In the case of the eggs of birds, the chick, when 
fully developed, breaks the shell with its bill, the 
point of which is then furnished with a hard scale. This 
is evidently contrived by providential wisdom for this 
very jnnpose, lor it drops otl' in a few days after the 
chick is evcliided. It is probable that the larvje of 
many insects which are furnished with strong man- 
dibles gnaw their way through the egg-shell ; but we 
know that there are others which, lil\c the spider, 
rupture their envelope, since the edges ai)pear ragged 
and irregular. Otliers, again, seem to have an open- 
ing jirovided for them, in a door, which only requires 
them to push it open. This is the case with the louse 
(^Pcdiculus hintianiis)^ and witli the bird-louse 
(iV2>7??7/.s), found on the neck feathers of the golden 
pheasant. A still more ingenious contrivance was 
discovered by the Rev. R. Slieppard, in the egg of a 
field bug [Ptiitaiomay Lath.), which is not only fur- 

Der Wonderen Gods, jmssim. 



Doors in oiri;:'' for tho esofipo of fli^* larvie. 
a, ogp: of I li'" I'lUso { I‘t‘fliculus /itniinuus). 6, of llip jicntii- 
tonri c, blu'll of a inoth'b louiul upon the dou-berry, all inag- 
nwiod. 

nishcd with a convex lid, but with a lc\er of a horny 
texture, and in the form of a cross-])ow, for opening it, 
the handle beiiri^ fixed to the lower ])art of the by a 
membrane, and the bow part to the lid''^. On the 
leaf of a dew-l)erry (Rubi/s cfcsws) we found a 
beautifully ribbed eg'^ of some moth, which, having 
been brought into oiir study in January, 1830, was 
hatclied by the Avarnith, aiid exhibited an openinj^ 
similar to the elastic cocoon of the emperor-moth ; each 
of the ribs ha\in^ exj)anded to allow of the escape of 
the caterpillar. 

The ])eriod at which the eg;g:s of insects are hatched 
after deposition depends mainly upon temj)erature ; 
for by keeping them in an ice-house in summer, the 
hatching may be retarded f, as it may be hastened 
(witness the instance in the preceding paragraph) by 
heat in winter ; but there are many other circum- 
stances unknown to us \thich often hasten or retard 
the process. The eggs of the blow-fly {Muaca vomi- 
toria) are said to hatch within two hours J, while those 
of several moths, and numerous other insects, remain 
unhatched for six or nine months; perhaps, in some 
cases, even for one or more }ears It is worthy of re- 

Kirby and Spence, iii. 104. f Reaumur, Mem. 

1 Nouv. Diet. d'Hist. Nat. xii. 5G4. 






mark, however, that the periods of hatching corre- 
spond in a striking manner with the leafing of trees, 
and the appearance of other materials fitted for the food 
of the young. We observed a good example of this 
in the spring of 18r29. A lackey moth had deposited 
during autumn a spiral ring of her eggs on the branch 
of a sweet-briar planted in a garden-pot out of doors. 
We removed this into our study during the winter. 
Here the warmth caused the tree to bud, and at the 
same time hatched the lackeys about a month sooner 
than those out of doors. Owing to the same cause, se- 
veral colonies of the caterpillars of the brown-tail moth 
revi\edfrom their tor[)idity, and came forth from their 
winter nests before the hawthorns were in leaf, a cir- 
cumstance which would not have happened to them 
out of doors Kirby and Spence give an instance 
precisely similar, of the eggs of an aphis found on 
the birch, and hatched in-doors a lull month before 
those in the open airf. 

It is a remarkable circumstance, long observed by 
collectors, that the male broods of insects appear 
earlier than the female broods ; and it would appear 
from the following fact, that there is a similar retarda- 
tion ill the haichiiig of female eggs. “ Upon the 
leaf of a jioplar tree were found three eggs of the 
puss moth {Ce.rura vinula)^ two of which were hatched 
about two weeks before the other. The first were 
males, the last a female. As they were on the 
same leaf, and presumed, therefore, to have been 
laid by the same parent, at the same time, the diller* 
ence of hatching could not have, arisen from ditlcreiice 
of weather, cxiiosure, Ac. X* In the case of the 
lackeys on the sweet-briar above-mentioned, some 
were hatched several days before others, but whether 
these were of ditferent sexes we did not ascertain. 

* J. R. f Kirby and Spence, Intr. ii. 434. 

I J. Rennie, in Mag. of Nat. Hist., \ol.i. p. 373. 





Structure of Caterpillars, Grubs, and Maggots. 

It is reported by Boerhaave, in his life of Swammer- 
dam, that when the Grand Duke of Tuscany was 
visiting the curiosities of Holland, in 1668, he found 
iiothine; more worthy of his admiration than the na- 
turalist’s account of the stmcture of caterpillars , — for 
Swammerdam, by the skilful manac^ement of instni- 
ments of wonderful delicacy and fineness, shewed 
the prince in what manner the future butterfly lies 
neatly folded up in the caterpillar, like a flower in 
the unexpanded bud. He was, indeed, so struck 
with this and other wonders of the insect world, dis- 
closed to him by the ^reat naturalist, that he made 
him a princely offer to induce him to reside at his 
court; but Swammerdam, from feelings t)f indepen- 
dence, modestly declined to accept it, preferrinp^ to 
continue his deliji'htful studies at home. The facts 
which thus struck the Duke with admiration, we shall 
now endeavour, with the aid of Swammerdam, to 
trace. But, before we proceed, it may not be out of 
place to advert to some very novel views which have 

* It may be proper to repeat here, that an insect, when hatched 
from the eg-g, is called by naturalists larva; and in popular lan- 
guage, a caterpillar or grub^ if furnished with feet, and a maggoty 
wormy or gentle, if without feet. 






been recently started by continental naturalists, who 
maintain that vegetables are actually converted into 
animals, and these ac^ain into vec^etables. 

It must be obvious, we think, from the details we 
have already ^iven, that the doctrine of trammuia- 
</o7i, so far as regards insects, is equally absurd and 
impossible with the pretended alchemical transmutation 
of lead and other inferior metals into gold and silver; 
whicli doctrine was, indeed, supported upon the sup- 
posed fact of insects being thus tmnsmuted But vi- 
sionary as either of these may appear, they have both 
been supported by men of talent and distinguished re- 
putation. It does not, perhaps, at first sight seem more 
impossible, that water should be transmuted into 
diamonds, or brass into gold, than that an egg should 
disclose a chick or a cateqnllar, or that a caterpillar 
should change into a butterfly or a beetle ; but by 
adhering rigidly to facts, and rejecting as rigidly all 
fancies and analogies, how jdausible soever they may 
appear, we are certain that the latter changes are of 
common occurrence, whereas the former are contrary 
to all experience, and to the best experiments. We 
say the beat; because observations, if not experiments, 
have been made for the express purpose of proving 
such improbable transmutations. 

“ I have shewn to a great number of persons,*’ 
says Professor Agardh, “ the changeable crow-silk 
{Conferva mutabilis^ Roth ; Draparnaldia m. 
Bory St. V.) in its state of a plant, the 3d of August, 
change by the 5th into molecules endowed with loco- 
mobility, reunite by the 6th into simple articulations, 
and reconstituted by the 1 0th into the primitive form 
of the plant t-'* Prexious to this (in 1814) Professor 
Nees von Esenbeck, of Bonn, published similar obser- 

^ Sir Theodore Mayerne, Epist. Dedicat ad Theatrum Insect. 
JMoufielii. 

f Agurdh, Diss.deMetamorph.AIgarum. 1820. 





vations, in which he remarks, that “ as the phenomena 
in question appear to contradict certain principles 
admitted into the reign iiic^ systems, we often prefer 
rather to deny the conclusions of candid and ex- 
perienced observers, than to receive what has hitherto 
been regarded as untenable by generally admitted au- 
thority. In this situation are placed all observations 
upon the transition or metamorphosis of vegetable life 
(characterised by immobility) into animal life (cha- 
racterised by mobility) ; — the moment when a being, 
arrived at the period of its existence, continues itself, 
as it were, by a new creation, and the animated em- 
bryo developes itself into a motionless vegetable*.** 
Agardh, in his account of another allied family 
(^Ocillatorioi), has even given figures, first of the 
plant, and then of the animalcules into which its 
filaments are convertedt, which induced Bory St. 
Vincent to remark sarcastically, that “ all nature 
appears, to the Professor of Lund, to be nothing but 
conferva) travestied i-’* 

Passing over what has been published on this 
strange doctrine by Vaucher, Girod-Chantrans, 
Treviranus, Cams, and others, we shall only stop to 
mention the more recent observations of Francis 
Unger. Ihe plant he selected was the Conferva 
dilatata ^ of Roth. “ Within the space of one hour,** 
says he, “ I succeeded in tracing, not only the dimi- 
nution of vitality and death of the animalcules, but 
also the subsequent development of the dead animals 
into germinating plants, in such a manner as to 
establish the truth of the fact."’ He adds with great 
simplicity, “ 1 could scarcely believe my own eyes§.** 
Like Agardh, he has given figures of these miracu- 

? Quoted in Annales dcs Sciences Naturelles” for 1828. 

f Agardh, leones Als:. ined. i.lO. 

+ Did. (;las^ique d’HUt. Nat,x. 469. 

\ Annales des Sciences Nat., 1828. 





lous changes, which our readers may be curious to 
see. 



Supposed animal and vegetable metamorphoses. 


Since the only proof of tliese plants being trans- 
muted (as is alleged) into animals, appears to be 
their acquiring motion and, as linger says, 
“ swimming freely about;” we think we should be 
equally entitled to infer (hat camphor is animated 
because it moves spontaneously when thrown into 
water. This property iit camphor has not hitherto 
been satisfactorily explained; and it would undoubt- 
edly be better to leave the phenomena described by our 
advocates for transmutation likewise unexplained, 
than to leap at once to their startling conclusions. 
“ W’e might as well,” says Bory St, Vincent, 
“ astonish the world with the discovery of a fig- 
tree transmuted into a mulberry tree, because the 
Brovsfi 07 ietia, when young, has the leaves of the one, 
and when old of the other ; and by such a system of 
observing we shall end in looking upon the oak and 
the mistletoe as the same plant : the w and of Circe 
could not produce more astounding consequences 
? Nees von Esenbeck, 





than the microscope does in the hands of such 
observers^'.” 

It is apparently a branch of the same untenable 
theory, which maintains that the lliiid termed by 
Heroldt the blood of caterpillars is the only original 
portion of them, which, beinp^ endowed with a forma- 
tive power f, produces an envelope for itself of mucous 
net-work {nie mucosim), and this aG;ain, by means of 
a similar power, is successively transmuted into the 
caterpillar, the ])upa, and the perfect insect in some 
similar way, we suppose, to the formative power dis- 
played by water, when, during frost, it shoots into 
crystals of ice. But the framers of such theories seem 
to forp^et that living* * * § blood is a very different thing 
from inanimate water, and the growth and nutrition 
of animals from the chemical formation of crystals. 
Kirby and Si)ence very justly remark, that Hcroldfs 
formative power is only an apology for ignorance, and 
that his denying the existence of what he cannot trace, 
is no proof of Ids doctrine, but of his mistake in sup- 
posing the first appearance of the organs of the but- 
terfly in his microscope to be literally their first 
existence. To suppose the blood, we may also remark, 
endowed with the power of creating inse(!ts, gets rid 
of no difficulty and explains no phenomenon, while it 
is altogether a gratuitous assumi)tion, unproved 
and improbable. “ Admirable discovery,’^ exclaims 
Virey ; “ as if you should affirm that a stone falls 
because it falls§I'’ We think it is St. Pierre who 
remarks, that Nature seldom permits philosophers to 
peep to the bottom of her basket; and we have already 

* Diet. Class, d’ Hist. Nat. x. 4t)8. 

f The German term b “ Bildende Kraft,” i. e. P^is formatrix, 
or Nisus format IV us. 

:j: Heroldt, quoted by Kirby and Spence, iii. 83. 

§ Quoted by ^iby and Spence. 





recorded many instances, besides the one under con- 
sideration, of their strani^e mistakes in guessiiif^ at 
what they cannot fathom. Wc prefer folio winc^ 
Swammerdam, Reaumur, and Bonnet, in recording 
what can be actually seen on examining the structure 
of caterpillars. 

In a chapter of Swammerdam’s Book of Nature, 
quaintly headed “ An animal in an animal, or the 
butterfly hidden in the cater|)illar,” we find the fol- 
lowing details respeciing the caterpillar of the large 
cabbage butterfly (Pontia braaaicep). The egg of 
this insect is of a yellow colour, flask shaped, and 
marked with fifteen ribs, converging towards the 
smaller end, and extending a little beyond it. The 



Kg-g; of the large cabbage butterfly (^Pvntla brassiccB), magnified. 

caterpillar, but too well known from its ravages, has 
sixteen feet, a yellow line along the back, and another 
on each side, the rest of the body being bluish grey, 
spotted with black; and the whole surface sprinkled 
with thin, short, whitish hairs*. 

“ In order,” continues Swammerdam, “ to discover 
plainly that a butterfly is inclosed and hidden in the 

* Hay, Cat. Cantab., quoted by Swammerdam. See fig. a, 
page G2. 




sliin of this caterpillar, the follovvinj^ operation must 
be used. One must kill a full-grown caterpillar, tie a 
thread to its body, and dip it for a minute or two into 
boiling water. The outer skin will, after this, easily 
separate, because the fluids, between the two skins, 
are by this means rarefied and dilated, and therefore 
they break and detach both the vessels and the fibres 
wherewith they were united together. By this means 
the outer skin of the caterpillar, being separated, may 
be easily drawn off i'rom the butterfly which is contained 
and folded up in it. This done, it is clearly and dis- 
tinctly seen, that, within this skin of the caterpillar, a 
perfect and real butterfly was hidden, and therefore 
the skin of the caterpillar must be considered only as 
an outer garment, containing in it parts belonging to 
the nature of a butterfly, which have grown under its 
defence by slow degrees, in like manner as other sen- 
sitive bodies increase by accretion. 

“ But as these limbs of the butterfly which lie under 
the skill of the caterpillar cannot, without great diffi- 
culty, be discovered in the full-grown caterpillar, unless 
by a person accustomed to such experiments, — because 
they are then very soft, tender, and small, and are 
moreover complicated or folded together, and inclosed 
in some membranaceous coverings, — it is, therefore, 
necessary to defer the ojieration just now proposed, 
until the several parts of the butterfly become some- 
what more conspicuous than at first, and are more 
increased and .swelled under the skin by the force of 
the intruded blood and a(|ueous humour. This is 
known to be the case when the caterjiillar ceases to eat, 
and its skin on each side of the thorax, near under the 
head, is then observed to be more and more elevated 
by the increasing and swelling limbs, and shews the 
?ippearance of two pairs of prominent tubercles 
* Swammerdam, Book of Nature, ii. 2G. 






By similar dissections, Malpighi both actually dis- 
covered the moth in the body ol‘ a silk worm, and also 
the eggs of it and Reaumur made a similar disco- 
very in the caterpillar of the gypsey moth {Hypogymna 
dispar) t- 



Female of the perfe<;t eabhufre butterfly irontia brassic(»). 

In order to harden tlic parts of the inci})ient butterfly 
that are soft, Swammerdam immersed the caterpillar 
in a phial filled with equal parts of vinegar and spirit 
of wine for sixteen hours, when he found it would 

* Malpighi de Bombyce, 29. f Ktaumur, Mem. i. 359. 




better bear handling. It may be necessary to remark, 
that though all the parts of the butterfly are in this 
mariner discoverable in the caterpillar, they are only 
in the bud, if we may use the expression, and appear to 
be out of proportion from being so closely folded up and 
unexpanded. The whole, indeed, bears so much ana- 
logy to the embryo of a plant in the seed, or the rudi- 











a, greatly magnified view of a section of the bud of the labur- 
num. It exhibits the nascent flowers, arranged in regular order, 
previously to their bursting into perfect existence, h, section of 
a bean seed, c, seed-leaves, root, and the first true leaf of the 
beech. 





merits of a leaf or of a flower in the bud» that Swam- 
merdam has ^iven fi genres of the parallel developments 
of larvfE and of a carnation. His selection of this 
flower was not perhaps the most happy ; but our readers 
may readily obtain examples by carefully dividing^ the 
unexpanded buds of the rose, the lilac, the horse- 
chesiiut, the American walnut, or beans, and other 
lar 2 :e seeds after they have been planted in moist 
earth, but not left long’ enough to shoot into a plant. 
The preceding figures will illustrate this better than 
description. Dr. Drew proved in this manner that 
flowers which blow in spring are formed in the pre- 
ceding year ^ ; and Du Hamel, on dissecting, in 
January, the bud of a pear-tree, found under an 
envelope of about thirty leaf scales eight or ten 
embryo flowers resembling rose-buds bestudded with 
hairs f. 

The butterfly and the flower-bud, however, differ re- 
markably in the manner in which they are nourished, — 
the latter receiving sap from the enveloping leaf scales, 
the former taking food into the stomach through the 
mouth of the caterpillar. The stomach, indeed, of the 
inclosed butterfly is so capacious, that it fills the 
greater portion of its body ; and requires the caterpillar 
to occupy almost its whole time in eating in order to 
satisfy its cravings. When the food is digested in the 
stomach of the insect, it passes, as in the larger animals, 
into the small intestines I ; but it is not, as in them, 
collected by innumerable little vessels which aftenvards 
run into one, (as brooks unite to form a river,) and go 
to the lungs to be exposed to the air, supplied by 
breathing, in order to be there oxygenated and formed 
into red blood. Insects, on the contrary, do not 

^ Grew. Phys. Veg., ii. fiO. 
f Du Hamel, Physique de^' Arbres, iii., 1. 

J See Insect Architecture,” p. 309, D, D.; and this vol. p. 198. 

 

breathe by the mouth, and are not furnished with 
lunges ; for though good air is no less essential to their 
nutrition and existence, it is brought to act on the di- 
gested food in a different manner. In caterpillars, and 
in most perfect insects, the air is respired by breath- 
ing-tubes — usually eighteen in number — placed along 
the sides *, the mouths *of which may be seen moving, 
as the air passes in and out, from ten to thirty times 
in a minute. When these are covered with oil, or any 
other matter preventing the entrance of the air, the 
insect, being unable to breathe, is suffocated and dies, 
as was observed two thousand years ago by Aristotle t . 
The breathing-tubes all run into what may be called a 
wind-pipe, one of which lies along each side of the 
insect; and these two wind-pipes send off' innumerable 
small branches with air to the vessels containing the 
digested food, supplying it with oxygen for the pur- 
poses of nourishment. A fluid is thus ])re})ared ana- 
logous to the blood of the larger animals, and stored 
up in a large dorsal vessel ; but this is not at all like 
a heart, for though it has been observed to beat, its 
motions do not seem to be constant or regular, and 
no blood-vessels go off from it. The fluid analogous 
to blood may perhaps ])ass through this singular reser- 
voir, as water does through blotting pa])cr ; but as 
yet this process has not been accurately in\ estigated. 
A more distinct notion, however, of the process of 
insect breathing may be obtained from Swammer- 
dam’s sketch of the interior of the water-grub of a 
May-fly {Ephemera). 

It is further conjectured that the portion of the 
blood not immediately wanted for nourishing the or- 
gans already formed, goes to form a mass of thickish 
mucilage, contained in floating membranes of a white. 


Insect Archi. p. 308, f Aristotle, Hist. Animal., viii. 27. 










Dissection of the water pjrnh of a May fly (Ephemera). The 
back is laid open, and the nerves, intestines, and respiratory 
apparatus exhibited, a a a n a a. mx clusters of short tubes, 
opening on both sides, through which the creat re breathes: the 
air contained in the water, passing tlirough hese, enters two 
wind-pipes, h b b b, nittning from head to t il, and circulates 
through every part of the body. The eight fin and a portion of 
the tail bristle ^ have been omitted, to give tin of the figure 
on a larger scale. The central white lines are .he nerves. 


 


yellow, or p^reen colour, and apparently analogous to 
fat in the larger animals This furnishes, as is fur- 
ther supposed, a store of nutriment for promoting 
the growth of the butterfly f. 

This brief sketch will serve to give the reader a tole- 
rable notion of the internal structure of caterpillars, 
and the manner in which their food is elaborated into 
nutriment ; but when we know that Lyonnet wrote a 
large quarto volume on the structure of a single cater- 
pillar, and that Malpighi, lleroldt, Ramdohr, Spren- 
gel, and Marcel de Serres, are little less voluminous, 
it will be understood that we give it merely as a 
sketch which we could easily have extended, had it 
appeared, as it docs not, to be suitable to our plan. It 
will prove more interesting, we think, to pass now to 
the external structure and appearance. 

It will be obvious from what we have said re- 
specting the colours of eggs, that we are not in- 
clined to adopt in all its extent the theory of many 
naturalists, which maintains the peculiar colours and 
forms of animals to be gi\en them by nature lor the 
purpose of concealment from their enemies. As in 
the instance of caterpillars this theory meets us again 
in full torcc, we shall mention a few facts which ap- 
pear not only to be at variance with it, but shew, we 
think, that the facts of the theorists may stand as 
appropriately for exception’s as for a general rule. 
Since cater])illars form the staple food of soft- billed 
birds and of the young of most hard-billed birds, not 
to mention the parasite grubs of ichneumon flies which 
destroy great numbers, nature has provided an im- 
mense abundance of them beyond what is requisite 
for continuing the race. Were it maintained, there- 
fore, that they were all by design so formed and 
coloured as to deceive the eyes of birds and ichneu- 

? Lyonnet, Anat. de la Chenille, 106, 
f lleauniur,Mein. i. 145. 





mons, the purpose of their superabundant production 
would be frustrated. We have no doubt, indeed, that 
insectivorous animals can instinctively detect their 
prey, in all the usual modes of concealment, as 
acutely as the practised eye of a naturalist, who can 
with ease perceive what escapes the observation of the 
inexperienced. When a woodpecker is taught by na- 
ture to detect a wood-boring caterpillar, by the bark 
sounding hollow when lapped with his bill, and when 
an ichneumon tly can detect a chrysalis closely rolled 
up in a leaf we should be strongly inclined to doubt 
that colour or form could afford very effectual conceal- 
ment from enemies, though we readily grant that 
many probable instances of this have been adduced. 
Of these instances it may be well to give a few ex- 
amples. 

The caterpillar of a nocturnal moth (Noctua algcBy 
Fabr.) is said to assume the colour of the lichens 
upon which it feeds, being grey when it feeds on a 
grey one {Parmelia saxatilifiy Acii.), and always yel- 
low when it feeds on a yellow one (Cetraria juni- 
perina, Acii.t) ; the change of colour being (it is 
alleged) intended by Providence to conceal it from 
its enemies, as it becomes difficult to distinguish it 
from the lichens. The caterpillar of the coronet moth 
{Acronycta Li gastric Ochsknheim.), which feeds 
upon the privet, is so exactly of the colour of the un- 
derside of the leaf, to which it usunlly clings during 
the day, that a person may have the leaf in his hand 
without discovering the caterpillar J ; a circumstance 
explained upon the same principle. This, indeed, is 
no uncommon circumstance, as many caterpillars 
very nearly resemble the colour of the leaves upon 
which they feed ; and the wonder rather is, that so 

* See “Insect Arrhiteclure,” p. 174-5. 
f Fabr. Vorlcsun^. in Kirby and Sjience, ii. 220. 

[]. Brahm, Inscclcn, in ibid. p. 221. 




many others should not be similarly coloured, when 
we consider that their stomachs occupy the greater 
portion of their bodies, and are generally gorged with 
food. It would be no difficult matter, therefore, to 
enumerate several hundred examples of caterpillars 
resembling in colour the substances upon which they 
feed. It strikes us as more singular to find a great 
many which, though they feed on green leaves, re- 
semble in colour the grey or brown bark of the 
branches where they usually rest when not feeding. 



Caterpillar^ of the CUfden nonpareil feeding on the grey poplar. 

A marked instance of this occurs in the caterpillar of 
one of our largest and most beautiful moths, the Clif- 
den nonpareil {Catocala frajcin/. Sen rank), which 
feeds on the ash and the poplar, and is so similar to 
a stripe of brown lichen dotted with black, that it 
would not be readily discovered by any person but a 
naturalist^. 


*J. R. 




Caterpillars of the Clifden nonpareil in a more advaneod stagfe of jjrowth. 

Of the extraordinary tropical insects popularly 
termed Walking-leaves, belonging to several orders 
and families (Lon/s/fif, MantiSy Phaamay &c.), the 
wing-cases, not only in colour, but in texture, and 
even in veining, are so exactly like leaves, from the 
fresh green of those newly expanded to the faded 
brown of those withered and fallen, that botanists 
themselves might be deceived if they were detached 
I'rorn the insects and exhibited as real leaves. Among 
the locusts of Fabricius (Plerojihyllay Kiiiby) alone, 
we find the various species with wing-cases re- 
sembling in this m.anner the leaves of the laurel, the 
myrtle, the citron, the lily, the sage, the olive, the ca- 
mellia, thyme, and grass. 

The Spectres (P/iasmata% Lichtenstein), on the 
other hand, resemble the smaller branches of trees 
with their spray ; and so minutely detailed is this mi- 
micry that the very snags and knobs, as Kirby and 
Spence remark, are accurately imitated. Those who 
are curious in such matters may readily find similar 
instances in some of our native caterpillars, by no 
means uncommon. In the latter part of summer, for 
example, by beating the bushes of a hawthorn hedge 
while an umbrella is held under, the caterpillar of the 
brimstone moth {Rumia Crat(E^at(i? Duponchet) 
may often be found, appearing, as it stalks along the 


 



Wfilkinff-leaf insert {Vhyllia fu^mta., Dumerii.), mag;nified. 

whalebones ol’ the umbrella, like a self-moving withered 
branch, the skin being wrinkled and furrowed like 
the bark, while the bulgings of the rings and a notched 
protuberance on the back add much to the resem- 
blance. 



Transfonnations of the hrimstonc moth (Rumia Cratgf>gafa), 
a, the caterpillar in its resting position. 6, the moth, c, the eggs. 
d, the young caterpillar. 

We found during last summer, on an elder, at Lee, 
several specimens of a similar walking-branch cater- 
pillar, that of llie swallow-tail moth {Oiirapivryx 
Samhucaria, Leach), not so conmion as the preced- 
ing, but equally remarkable ; for the ringed bulgings 
on the body are precisely like those of an elder branch, 
while the longitudinal stripes arc like the cracks in 
the bark^. It is likewise worthy of remark that these 
caterpillars, when not feeding, rest upon their pro- 
legs, with their body stretched out at various angles 
from the branch, their only support being a thread of 




silk, from which the head haTifii;s, in order that they may 
always be ready to drop down in safety, by extending 
this thread, on the sndclen ajiproach of enemies. As 
they feed chiefly in the nie^ht, they may be seen con- 
tiiiuins; in this stiff atid singular attitude for a whole 
day without movinpr, “ So that, doubtless,’’ say 
Kirby and Spence, “ the sparrows and other birds 
are frequently deceived by this manoeuvre, and thus 
baulked of their prey. Rosel’s p^ardener, mistakinp^ 
one of these caterpillars for a dead twip^, started back 
in great alarm, when upon attcm})ting to break it he 
found it was a liviiiff animal*.’’ We are well 



Caterpillars of the swallow-tailed moth, resembling the twigs on 
which they rest. 

* Intr, ii, 236 3 Jlosel; lusecten; i. v. 27. 






persuaded, however, that neither a bird, an ichneumon, 
nor a naturalist, would have been apt to fall into such 
a mistake. 

This family of caterpillars (Geometridoi, Stephens) 
have been by collectors not inappropriately named 
surveyors, loopers, and geometers, from their peculiar 
manner of inovinf^, which may readily be conceived 
by those who have not seen them, when we mention 
that at the commencement of each step their bodies 
present a pretty exact tip^ure of the Greek letter Q. 
In this position, laying hold with their hinder prolep^s, 
they stretch out their lieads to the full extent of their 
body, layinpf hold with their fore legs while they bring 
forward their body into the O form again. 

Such are among the most prominent examples ad- 
duced by naturalists who advocate the theory that 
these resemblances to inanimate objects are intended 
to conceal insects from their enemies*. We shall 
now gi\e a lew instances which have suggested 
themselves as no less coiToborative of the opposite 
doctrine. The first which occurs to us is one of the 
surveyor caterpillars, whose movements we have just 
been describing, found very commonly on the cur- 
rant, the gooseberry, and the black thorn, and called 
by collectors the magpie (^Abraxas (h'ossulariata, 
Leach). This caterpillar is very conspicuous from 
being spotted, somewhat like the ])erfect insect, with 
black upon a bright yellow ground, and contrasting 
strongly both with the deep green of the leaves upon 
which it feeds, and the dark-coloured bark upon 
which it usually rests. The caterpillars of the water 
betony moth {CuevUia Scrophiflarifp, Hubncr), 
and of the burnet moth {Eudidia G/yphica, Och- 
SENHEIM.), are similarly marked with deep black on a 
yellow ground, which must render them \ery conspi- 
cuous. The caterpillars of the small tortoise-shell 
* See Kirby and Spence, Intr. ii. 219-237. 




butterfly (Vanessa Urticce)^ are, we admit, very simi- 
lar in colour to the nettles they are found on ; but we 
cannot, surely, say the same of the dark black ones 
of the peacock (V. Io)y also nettle feeders, particu- 
larly as these are not only larg^e, but keep top;ether in 
numerous companies ; which also applies to the cater- 
pillar of the Camberwell beauty (V. Antiopa)^ as 
well as to the conspicuous caterpillar of the buff tip 
(Pij^rera bvccphala^ Ochsenh.), so very destructive 
in certain years to beeches, oaks, limes, filberts, and 
other trees Some of those just mentioned, indeed, 
are provided, as vve shall afterwards see, with better 
means of defence than their colours ; but if peculiar 
colours be ^iven by nature for the purpose of conceal- 
ment, as in the instance of the caterpillars of the 
small tortoise-shell, why are these studded with thorns 
in the same way as the conspicuous caterpillars of the 
peacock and the Camberwell beauty ? In this, as 
in many other instances, the theory evidently proves 
too much. 

To the examples which we have here p;iven of 
conspicuous caterpillars, we could easily add some 
hundreds more ; but thinking these sufficient, we 
may be permitted, by way of farther illustration, to 
allude to the instances remarkable in perfect insects. 
Kirby and Spence mention a different kind of imita- 
tion of form and colour, which they think “ affords 
beautiful instance of the wisdom of Providence in 
adapting means to their end.’* One of those two- 
winged flies (Volucella'y Geoffroi), which bear a 
considerable resemblance to humble bees, lives during 
the larva state in the hives of the latter; and it is 
inferred, that as the flies “ strikingly resemble those 
bees in shape, clothing, and colour, the Author of 
nature has provided that they may enter these nests 

* All these caterpillars are figured in this volume : see contents 
pf the engravings, 





and deposit their e^^s undiscovered;” for “did 
they venture themselves amongst the humble bees in 
a less kindred form, their lives would probably pay 
the forfeit of their presumption 



A two-winged fly ( Volucella j)lumata, Mkigkv). 

We do not conceive that any dissent from this 
doctrine has a tendency to weaken or destroy the 
smallest link in the beautiful chain of causes which 
leads us upwards to the admirable superintendence 
of the p:reat First Cause; and, therefore, we state 
that, in the case before us, our justly eminent authors 
surely forgot, that bees wtII know strange individuals 
of their own species, and beat them off when they 
attempt to plunder their hives; and these robber bees 
are not only like but identical with tbeiiiselves in 
shape, clothing, and colour. Indeed, when it is con- 
sidered that in the designs of Providence, as e\idenced 
by the economy of nature, the nourishment of the 
stronger species of carnivorous animals is as much 
regarded as the means which the weaker have of 
escaping from them, such general rules cannot be but 
of very limited application. 

Darwin, as we formerly mentioned, maintained 
that butterflies resembled the coloins of the flowers 
which they frequent; and many of them may be 
granted to do so without leading us to adopt the 
Intr. ii. 223. 




inference of the theorists that they are thus coloured 
to conceal them from their enemies. Were this, in- 
deed, the true cause of these colours, the butterflies 
ou^ht to remain stationary on the flowers, without 
sportinc^ about in the sunshine, as if on purpose to 
show the birds and the drap^on flies that they are 
living insects, and not inanimate flowers. In the 
instance of many moths which fly by twilight, this is 
no less obvious; for instead of being of dark dusky 
colours, which would have effectually concealed them 
from the bats and the fern-owls, they are frequently 
white, or at least of such light colours as show well in 
the dusk. There is but small need of enumerating 
examples of this, and it will be suflicient to name the 
white-ghost moth (Hepialus Hnmvli)^ which may 
often be seen, where hops or burdocks grow, hovering 
on the wing for hours together; the satin moth 
(Lev coma Salicis, Stephens), which floats about the 
air like an animated flake of snow-white down, or 
flits conspicuously from tree to tree among the higher 
branches of a row of })oplars; and the magpie moth 
(^Abraxas grossi/lariaia), usually abundant in every 
garden, though liberally sprinkled with black spots, 
has enough of white to distinguish it in its heavy, 
lumbering flight, even when the last rays of the 
twilight are disappearing. That these are not strained 
examples of insects so coloured as to be conspicuous 
to their enemies, will farther be obvious from a com- 
mon contrivance of schoolboys to catch bats. They 
chalk the seed-heads of burdocks in such a manner 
as to resemble the white moths alluded to; and 
throwing these up where a bat is observed flying, he 
fails not to dart upon the supposed moth, and the 
bur adhering to his wings, brings him down to pay 
the penalty of his mistake*. 

If wc leave colouring out of consideration, and 
^ J. R. 





look merely at the forms of caterpillars, we think it 
must be apparent to the most indifferent observer, 
that, though they have often a rather ungainly, 
repulsive, and sometimes a formidable aspect, yet 
this renders them in numerous instances very conspi- 
cuo\is. The forms, also, we may remark, which ay^pear 
disagreeable or threatening to us, may not seem so 
to birds and ichneumons which make them their prey. 
One of the most singular of these forms of caterpil- 
lars occurs in that of the pebble moth {Notodonta 
Ziczac^ Stephens^), the form being such that it is 
not easy for one unacquainted with it to tell which is 
the head and which the tail. The puss {Centra Vi- 
7iula) is another whose form and attitudes cannot fail 
to attract the notice of the most indifferent observer. 
Dr. Shaw, in his Zoological Lectures, quotes from a 
country newspaper a most ludicrous account of this 
“ monster,’* as it is there called, having a head like a 
lion, jaws like a shark, a horn like a unicorn, and 
two tremendous stings in its tail. The gross exag- 
geration of this description will be obvious from the 
following accurate figures ; yet how formidable soever 
this caterpillar may appear to us (even Rosel, the 
entomologist, was afraid of it at first), we know that 
no one is more readily pounced upon by at least two 
syiecies of ichneumons, which seem, therefore, not to 
be afraid to deposit their eggs in its body t ; and it is 
no doubt often made prey of by birds, at least in its 
young state ; for when full grown, being about as thick 
as a man’s thumb, it may prove rather too bulky a 
morsel J. 

Our readers may like to see, by way of contrast 
to the exaggerated account quoted by Shaw, the 
excellent description of the puss caterpillar given 
by old Isaac Walton. “ The very colours of caterpil- 

? Figured in Insect Architecture, p. 172. 
t See ibid., pp, 195 and 325-6. J J. R. 






lars/’ says he, as one has observed, are ele^nt and 
beautiiuL I shall, for a taste of the rest, describe 
one of them; which I will, some time the next 
month, shew you feedinpf on a willow tree ; and you 
shall find him punctually to answer this very descrip* 
tion: his lips and mouth somewhat yellow; his eyes 






black as jet; his forehead purple; his feet and hinder 
parts g;reen; his tail two-forked and black; the 
whole body stained with a kind of red spots, which 
run alon^ the neck and shoulder-blade, not unlike the 
form of St. Andrew’s cross, or the letter X made thus 
crosswise, and a white line drawn down his back to 
his tail; all which add much beauty to his whole 
body. And it is to me observable, that at a fixed a^e 
this caterpillar g’ives over to eat, and towards winter 
comes to be covered over with a strant^e shell or crust, 
called an aurdia^\ and so lives a kind of dead life 
without eating all the winter. And as others of 
sevenil kinds turn to be several kinds of flies and 
vermin the spring following; so this caterpillar then 
turns to be a painted butterflyt.” 

Another caterpillar, called by collectors the lob- 
ster {Siauropus FagU Germar.), which is rarely 
met with, has not only very long legs, a circum- 
stance uncommon among caterpillars, hut assumes 
an attitude similar to the puss just figured, though 
the shape of the creature renders it much more 
strange. This caterpillar was known to Mouffet, 
and is indifferently figured by him, as well as by 



Lobster caterpillar (^Stauropus Fagi, Gehmab.) 

* See Insect Architecture, p. 194. 
f Walton’s Angler, chap, v 



Albin and Donovan; but Rosel’s figure, which we 
here copy, is more accurate. 

Looking at these very singular forms of caterpil- 
lars, we could not anticipate, without previous know- 
ledge, that all of them produced insects of nearly the 
same shape, though ditfering considerably in size 
and colour. It is not a little remarkable, also, 
that the colours of caterpillars, with a few excep- 
tions, such as the magpie moth {Abraxaa grossi/la- 
riata), are very different indeed from the insects into 
which they are transformed. Plain and inconspicu- 
ous caterpillars will sometimes give splendidly co- 
loured insects, as in the case of the Vanessa butter- 
flies ; while finely marked caterpillars will give 
plain insects, as the one whose gaudy stripes of sky- 
blue, scarlet, and black, has obtained it the appro- 
priate name of the lackey (Clisiocampa nenslria, 
Curtis), though the moth is of a dull brownish 
yellow. Two of our finest native insects, however, 
the swallow-tailed butterfly and the emperor-moth, 
are produced from beautifully coloured caterpillars ; 
but neither the colours nor the markings of these 
have any resemblance. 

A more extraordinary difference, however, between 
the first and the last stage of insect life occurs in the 
case of those insects whose larvae are acpiatic. One 
of our commonest families of insects, the gnats (Cw- 
licida\ Latr.), whose ingenious mode ol’ constructing 
a floating raft of eggs we have already described, 
affords a very strikingillustration of our position. When 
these eggs are hatched, the grubs appear ; but they 
do not, as is said by older naturalists, “ make them- 
selves little lodgments of glue, which they fasten to 
some solid body at the very bottom of the water, unless 
they meet with chalk, whose softness permits them to 
burrow into its substance^.” On the contrary, they 
* Spectacle de la Nature, i. 123. 






usually swim near the surface of the water, with their 
heads downwards and their tails in the air, for a pur- 
pose which will presently be obvious. These grubs, 
called scvrrs in the north, may be met with in abun- 
dance during the summer in ditches or in water- 
butts^, appearing like minute, whitish, semi-trans- 
parent shrimps or fishes, when their bodies are a little 
bent, as they frequently are. 



Aquatic grubs of gnats in a glass vessel of water. 

The organs for breathing, which are very remark- 
able in the grub of the gnat, are not situated along the 
sides, as in caterpillars, but in the tail. A tube for 
the purj)ose of respiration goes off from the terminal 
ring of the body at an angle. Its main buoys, also, 
arc its tail and its breathing-tube, both of which end in 
a sort of funnel, composed of hairs, in form of a star, 
anointed with oil, so as to repel water. Sw^ammer- 
dam remarks that when, by handling it too roughly, 
this oil is removed, the grub “ can no longer suspend 
itself on the surface of the water ; 1 have, on these 
occasions, observed it put its tail in its mouth, and 
afterwards draw it back, as a water-fowl will draw 
its feathers through its bill to prepare them for resist- 

* See Insect Art^hitecturei p, 20^ bottom figure^ on the right. 





mg water* ” The air, which enters through several 
dpenings in the breathing-tube, passes onwards to 
two lateral wind-pipes, very similar to those of cater- 
pillars, as above described. When it wishes to descend 
lo the bottom of the water, it folds up the hairs of the 
funnel, but by means of its oil retains at their ends a 
globule of air ; and when it wishes to re-ascend, it 
has only to open its hair funnel again. 



Larva of the common ^nat (Culex pipiensf ) floatinjf in water, 
fO'eatly magnified, a a, the body and head of the larva, h, the 
respiratory apparatus, situated in the tail, c, the larva, not mag- 
nified. 

A similar but more elegant apparatus for the same 
purpose occurs in the water-grub of a two-winged 
fly, which Goedart called the chameleon fly (Straiio^ 
9nys cham(pleoiu Meigen), because he found it could 
live nine months without food. The terminal ring of 
this grub is extended to a considerable length, and 
fringed at the end with a beautiful star-like funnel of 
thirty feathered hairs. Whether the creature oils these, 
* Biblia^ Naturec^ i. I54« 



like the g^rub of the gnat, we know not, but they 
perfectly repel water; and at the point where the 
insect hangs suspended, a small dimple may be 
observed on the surface. When it wishes to dive to 
the bottom, it has the power of bringing the ends of 
the hairs together, without diminishing the capacity of 
the funnel below ; and a globule of air, for the pur- 
pose of breathing under water, is thus enclosed and 
carried down, appearing, as Swammerdam says, like 
a brilliant pearl or polished silver. “ As for my 
part,” he adds, “ I dare boldly affirm, that the incom- 
prehensible greatness of the Deity manifests itself in 
these mysterious operations in a particular manner, 
and affords us an opportunity of examining, as it 
were, with our senses, the divine nature*.'* 



Buoy-like structure in tlie tail of a water-gjub of a two-wlnged fly 
i^Stratiumys Chamcelcon). 

* Swammerdam, part ii* 




The preceding’ grub may occasionally be found in 
shallow ditches, and about the edges of ponds, in 
summer ; but a remarkable larva, with a very dif- 
ferent apparatus for breathing, is much more common 
in similar situations, and also in the open drains from 
dunghills, &c. The latter is the maggot of a two- 
winged, bee-like fly (Helophibis pendulus, Meigen), 
and from its shape is appropriately termed rat^ tailed 
by Reaumur. The tail is the part of the grub which 
most merits attention, being formed somewhat after 
the telescopic model of the ovipositor of the breeze flies*. 



Telescopir-tiiiled water larvae. «, a i^lass vessel of water con- 
tiininjf the larvae, natural size, ft, inaffnjfied view of the tail, 
with The breathing-tube partially contracted, c, a still more ea. 
larged view of the tail. 

^ See Insect Architecture^ p, 403. 





but consisting only of two tubes, the outer one serv- 
ing as a sheath, within which the inner one can be 
retracted at pleasure. Both of these are composed of 
fibrous rings ; and are so very extensile, that Reaumur 
has seen them pushed out to twelve times the length 
of the body of the maggot. The contrivance by which 
the inner tube is pushed out is no less simple than 
ingenious. It is furnished at the base with two 
flexible pipes, coiled up, when it is sheathed, into 
several folds, and communicating with the double 
wind-])ipe {Trachea) in the body. When it wishes 
to extend this breathing- tube, therefore, it inflates, by 
means of air from the wind-pipe, the flexible pipes, 
and in this way pushes them outward, and with them 
the breathing- tube, to the extent required. The 
breathing-tube itself is very slender, but terminates 
similarly to those of the grub of the chameleon fly, in 
five bristles. This breathing apparatus is admirably 
adapted to the economy of these maggots ; as from 
their seeking their food amongst ooze and mud, they 
would often be exposed to suffocation, which their 
extensile tube effectually prevents. 




Water worms {Nats), a a half-concealfd in the sand, 
b b b, their sand-tubes exposed. 




It may not be improper to guard our younger 
readers against mistaking for these telescopic-tailed 
larv ae, an animal, found in the same situations, which 
has a considerable general resemblance to them, 
though it is not even an insect, but a water-worm 
(iVais),upon which Bonnet made numerous curious ex- 
periments. The nais may he easily known by its being 
reddish, while the maggot is of a dirty white colour. 

It ai)pears to be the nais^ or some similar fresh- 
water worm, which medical men, unacquainted with 
natural history, have supposed to get into the human 
stomach through the medium ol‘ water, as we shall 
presently notice. 

A no less singular structure for respiration than that 
just described, occurs in the aquatic larvae of the 
dragon-flies (Lihellulidfr, Leach), which difler so 
remarkably from the perfect insects in the beauty of 
colour and elegance of jbrrn that has procured for 
them the gallant appellation of damsels (demoiselles) 
in France. This title agrees as badly with their 
habits as the popular English name of horse-sthigers, 
since they have no apparatus for stinging; “and so 
far,” says Reaumur, “ from seeking an innocent nutri- 
ment ill the pulp of fruits, or the nectar of flowers, 
they are more like amazons than damsels, hovering 
in the air only to pounce upon other insects, which 
they crush with their powerful mandibles. Should 
they quit the margin of a pond or the banks of a 
rivulet, where they may be seen hawking about in 
multitudes, it is only to pursue and seize the moth or 
the butterfly, that has fled for shelter to the bushes.” 

Though these larvae are furnished with six feet, 
they not only move very little, but do not use them 
for walking so much as for capturing their prey. 
Their motion is effected by a very peculiar method. 
When one of these larvae is procured from the bottom 
of a pond or ttie pool of a brook, let it be put into a large 



 

saucer with water, with some of the dead leaves or sticks 
it previously employed as a covering ; these will soon 
be seen floating towards the tail, and afterwards re- 
pelled, as a floating feather will be by a stick of sealing- 
wax, or a bit of amber, when electrically excited. When 
the insect has been kept out of the water for a short 
time, the desire, or necessity, of respiration is increased, 
and when again put into the water, the pumping is 
repeated with unusual force and frequency. If it be 
held in the hand, head downwards, and some drops 
of water be let fall on its tail, it instantly sucks it in, 
and the dimensions of its body become visibly aug- 
mented ; blit it collapses again when the water is ex- 
pelled, which is effected by the same appamtus. 

While in the water, if a solution of cochineal, saf- 
fron, indigo, or any other coloured fluid, be let down, 
with great care, by means of a glass tube, just over 
the tail of the insect, it will soon be seen to eject a 
stream of the coloured solution to the distance of 
several inches. Or the same may be seen by remov- 
ing it suddenly out of a coloured fluid into limpid 
water ; when the coloured jet stream will be still more 
cons])icuous. The most extraordinary circumstance 
respecting this jet is, that it jiropels the creature 
through the water in coiisecpience of its being resisted 
by the stationary mass of the fluid behind it, and a 
contrary current being thence produced by this singu- 
lar ])uniping. As the insect, between every stroke of 
the internal piston, is obliged to draw in a fresh sup- 
ply of water, an interval consequently occurs between 
the strokes, during which it will sometimes elevate its 
tail above water and squirt out a small stream like 
that from a little syringe. 

This wonderful apparatus serves several purposes; 
for, besides aiding the insect to move, the reverberatory 
current brings small water insects within its reach : 
it is also it would appear, partly appropriated to 




respiration, like the g;ills of fish, thons^h there are 
several other spiracles in other parts of the body com- 
municating with the large convoluted windpipes. 
The anal apparatus is surrounded with five hard, 
moveable, triangular pieces, all fringed with hairs, 
which it can open or shut at pleasure. The largest 
of these pieces is placed above, while the two smallest 
stand at the sides, and two of the middle size below. 
When they are shut close they form a blunt cone 



a, grub of a dragon fly ; h ft, tho body laid open and magnified, 
to show the windpipes ; c, the ]minping appaiatus shut ; d, the 
same open ; £?, head of the insect. 


It may. not be out of place to take notice here of 
another singular structure in the same species of lar- 
vae, which is probably unmatched in the insect world. 
In the larvae of most insects the under-lip is small 
and inconspicuous, but in those of the dragon-flies, 

* De Geer, ii, 066; and Reaumur; vi. 393, &c. 





“ it is,” to follow the excellent description of Kirby 
and Spence, “by far the largest organ of the mouth, 
which, when closed, it entirely conceals, and it not 
only retains but actually seizes the animal’s prey, by 
means of a very singular pair of jaws with which it is 
furnished. Conceive your under-lip (to have recourse, 
like Reaumur on another occasion, to such a compa- 
rison) to be horny instead of fleshy, and to be elon- 
gated perpendicularly downwards, so as to wrap over 
your chin, and extend to its bottom, — that this elonga- 
tion is there expanded into a triangular convex plate, 
attached to it by a joint, so as to bend upwards 
again and fold over the face as high as the nose, con- 
cealing not only the chin and the first-mentioned 
elongation, but the mouth and part of the cheeks : 
conceive, moreover, that to the end of this last-men 
tioned ])late are fixed two other convex ones, so broad 
as to cover the whole nose and temples, — that these can 
open at pleasure transxersely like a pair of jaws, so as 
to ex])ose the nose and mouth, and that their inner 
edges where they meet are cut into numerous sharj) 
teeth, or spines, or armed with one or more long 
shaip claws ; — you will then have as accurate an 
idea as my powers of description can give of the 
strange conformation of tlie under-lip in the larvae of 
Libdlulina, which conceals the mouth and face pre- 
cisely as I have supposed a similar construction of 
your lip would do yours. You will, probably, admit 
that your own visage would present an appearance 
not very engaging while concealed by such a mask ; 
but it would strike still more awe into the spectators, 
were they to see you first open the two upper jaw 
plates, which would project from each temple like the 
blinders of a horse ; and next, having, by means of 
the joint at your chin, let down the whole apparatus, 
and uncovered your face, employ them in seizing any 





food thiLt presented itself, and conveying it to your 
mouth. Yet this procedure is that adopted by the 
larvae of the dragon-fly provided with this strange 
organ. While it is at rest, it applies close to and 
covers the face. When the insects would make use 
of it, they unfold it like an arm, catch the prey at 
which they aim by means of the mondibuliform plates, 
and then partly refold it so as to hold the prey to the 
mouth in a convenient position for the operation of the 
two pairs of jaws with which they are provided. R(;au- 
mur once found one of them thus holding and de- 
vouring a large tadpole ; a sufficient proof that Swam- 
merdam w^as greatly deceived in imagining earth to be 
the food of animals so tremendously armed and fitted 
for carnivorous purposes. In the larvae of Libellula, 
Fabr., it is so exactly resembling a mask, that if en- 
tomologists ever went to masquerades, they could not 
more effectually relieve the insipidity of such amuse- 




The mask of the drag;on*fly icrub, in four different states of 
opening and shutting. 


ments and attract the attention of the demoiselles than 
by appearing at the supper table with a mask of this 
construction, and serving themselves by its assistance. 
It would be difficult, to be sure, by mechanism, to 




supply the place of the muscles with which in the in- 
sect it is amply provided; but Merlin, or his suc- 
cessor, has surmounted greater obstacles^/’ 

The larva) of the dragon-fly do not, however, 
trust to this mask alone for surprising their prey, but 
steal upon it, as De Geer observes, as a cat does 
upon a bird, very slowly, and as if they counted their 
steps ; and then, by suddenly unmasking, seize it by 
surprise: so artful are they that insects, and even 
small fishes, find it difficult to elude their attacks f. 

The larva of a very singular insect {Reduviua per- 
sonatifs, Fabr.), which preys upon the bed bug 
(Cwicx ledulariufi)y not being furnished with a mask, 
is at the pains to construct one, composed of dust, 
particles of sand, fragments of wool or silk, and simi- 
lar matter, which makes it assume so very grotesciue a 
figure, that the animal would at first be taken for one 
of the ugliest spiders. Its awkward motions add not 
a little to the effect of its odd appearance. It can, in- 
deed, if it so chooses, move with considerable speed; 
but for the purj)oses of successful hunting, it endea- 
vours to assume the aspect of an inanimate substance, 
and hitches along in the most leisurely manner possi- 
ble. It only moves one leg at a time, and having set 
one foot forward, it pauses a little before it brings up 
the contiguous one, proceeding in the same way witli 
its other legs. It is no less carefully cautious in 
moving its antennas striking, as it were, first with 
one, and then, after a short pause, with the other. 
By means of a camel’s hair pencil, or a feather, it is 
easy to unmask the insect, for, when touched, it 
usually abandons its covering. 

* In trod, to Ent. iii. 12G. 


t De Geer, ii, 6/4. 




Growth, Moulting, Strength, Defence, and Hybernation of Larvap, 


From the facts beiiipf commonly known, we are not 
surprised, that an ostrich, nine feet hi|i’h and 150 lbs. 
weiii^ht, should be ])roduced from an eji^p^ about the 
size of a cocoa-nut, or that “a G;min of mustard-seed 
— the least of all seeds — when it is «;rown,” should 
become “a tree (Phytolacca dioica?),m that the 
birds of the air come and lodo;e in the branches 
thereof*.” But when similar facts are recorded by 
natumlists respecting* insects, general readers are apt 
to wonder, because they are less familiar with these 
details, than with the economy of trees springing from 
seeds and birds being produced from eggs. When we 
repeat, after Lyonnet, that the caterpillar of the goat- 
moth (Cossus ligniperda, Fabr.) becomes 72,000 times 
heavier than when newly batched t, we do not state 
anything more striking and admirable than that an 
embryo of small dimensions should become an ele- 
phant, or that an acorn should produce a lofty and 
magnificent oak. The facts respecting the growth of 
insects have an adventitious interest, because, in con- 
sequence of the minuteness of the objects to which 
they relate, they are less familiar to popular observa- 
tion. In the instance of the silk-worm, the progress 
of growth has been accurately ascertained by scientific 
cultivators. It appears that a single caterpillar, 
weighing when first hatched only the hundredth part 
of a grain, consumes in thirty days above an ounce of 
leaves, — that is to say, it devours in vegetable sub- 

* See Irby and Mangle’s Travels, letter v. 

f Traite Anat. de la Chenille, p, 11. 


 


stance about 60,000 times its primitive weight. In 
warmer climates, silk-worms consume a rather less 
quantity of leaves, because these are perhaps more 
nutritive ; but, in that case, the silk produced is not 
so delicate and fine. The following statements are 
the result of experiments made by Count Daiidolo ; — 

Progressive increase of silk-worms in weight. 

GRAINS. 


A hundred worms just hatched weigh about 

After the first moulting  

After the second moulting 

After the third moulting  

After the fourth moulting 

On attaining their greatest size and weight 


They have, therefore, in thirty days increased  
times their primitive weight. 


Progressive increase of silk-worms in length. 


A silk-worm just hatched measures about 



After the first moulting 



After the second moulting . . 



After the third moulting 



After the fourth moulting 



After the fifth moulting it may reach 




The length of the silk-worm, therefore, increases 
about forty times in twenty-eight days*. 

By recalling to memory the comparisons of the 
eggs of insects with the seeds of plants, and of cater- 
pillars with buds, which ought to be taken (if we 
may trust Swammerdam) literally rather than 
poetically, we shall arrive at more distinct notions of 
the manner in which the growth and changes of 
larvae are accomplished. The buds of plants are 
composed of successive leaves closely embosomed 
within each other’s foldings, the outer one being 
generally hard and corneous, from the exposure of 
its vessels to the colds of winter, while the inner 
? Count Dandolo on Silk-worms, p. 326, Eng, Trans, 






leaves, bein^ thence protected, remain soft and 
pulpy. But as soon as the inner leaves receive 
an accession of sap, which rises from the roots 
on the return of spring, their vessels swell 
and their nervures exj)and; while the outer leaf, from 
its vessels being' shrunk and partly obliterated, 
undergoes little change besides being pushed out 
and sometimes entirely thrown off by the growth of 
the inner leaves, which it had previously enclosed. 
It may be remarked, also, that this outer envelope of 
a bud is not united with the inner leaves by any 
interlacing of their substance or of their vessels, 
though ill some cases there is an adhesive gluten 
which partly binds them together ; but this is never 
so strong as to prevent the expansion of the leaves. 
On comparing one of the bud envelopes thus thrown 
off, we can scarcely persuade ourselves that so small 
a covering could ever have contained the large 
spreading leaves which have burst from them. 

A caterpillar con’esponds in several circumstances 
with the leaf * bud. The outer skin encloses a 
succession of several other skins, each becoming more 
delicate, soft, and indistinct than the one exterior to 
it, but gradually, like the expanding leaves, growing 
more substantial and firm as it receives a supply of 
nutriment. The chief mechanical difference be- 
tween the leaves folded up in the bud and the suc- 
cessive caterpillars enveloped within the skin of one 
newly hatched, is that the leaves in the bud receive 
all their nourishment through their foot-stalks from 
the root of the tree, whereas the caterpillar is nour- 
ished from within by the food digested in its stomach. 
The superfluous nourishment, usually in considerable 
quantity, and called the fat of the caterpillar, appears 
to lie between the successive skins, in a similar way 
to the adhesive gluten in the leaf bud. But as the 
first inner skin expands and increases in consistence^ 





the fat which lies between it and the outer skin 
seems to be absorbed into the body of the cater- 
pillar, and of course swellinp^ it out; while its abstrac- 
tion from the interior of the outer skin renders this 
much more dry, separates it from the inner skin, 
and disposes it to harden and shrivel. 

The absoq)tion of the fat also produces the re- 
markable consequence of gorginj:^ all the channels of 
nutrition, so that there is no lonp;er any demand 
upon the stomach for fresh supplies of food; and 
hun«-er (which wc imagine is caused either by the 
want of the accustomed pressure of food on the 
terminal nerves in the stomach, or of the irritation of 
the absorbents when they are left empty) is no 
longer felt. The caterpillar accordingly ceases to 
eat, and having no incentive to action remains motion- 
less. The outer skin, in the meanwhile, being 
deprived of its internal moisture by the absorption of 
the fat, goes on to harden and shrink, while all the 
internal organs become enlarged by the nutritive fat. 
The expansion, therefore, of the body of the cater- 
pillar on the one hand, and the shrinking of the old 
skin on the other, produce a mutual struggle, which, 
from the continued operation of the causes, must, it 
is obvious, be soon brought to a termination. 

The skin, from losing its internal moisture, loses 
also a portion of its colour, and becomes obscure 
and dull ; and the caterpillar, from being girt and 
squeezed by its pressure, begins to turn and twist 
itself in various directions, to rid itself if possible of 
the inconvenience. By continuing these movements, 
the creature succeeds at length in rending the old 
skin at its weakest part, which is usually on the 
back, just behind the head ; and in a lew minutes, 
using its body as a wedge, it may be seen issuing 
through the breach* The old skin is thus abandoned 
* E^aumur^ Mem. i. 185. 



 


like a worn shirt ; and the caterpillar appears in an 
entire new dress, the tints of which are fresher and 
brifi^hter, and the colours and markings often con- 
siderably different from the former. The insect, 
also, in consequence of the quantity of fat which has 
gone to augment its several parts, becomes all at 
once so much enlarged in size, that we can with diffi- 
culty conceive how it could have been contained in 
the old skin, out of which it has just crept. The 
cast skin is frequently so very perfect that it might 
almost be supposed to be the caterpillar itself, par- 
ticularly in those which are hairy, as this contributes 
to conceal the shrivelling. 

That the above account of the process of casting the 
skin is correct, appears both from the careful dissections 
which have been made by Swammerdam, Lyonnet, 
and Ramdohr, and also from the diseases incident 
to caterpillars from deficiency of food or of pure air. 
It is a circumstance of common occurrence to those 
who are in the habit of breeding insects, that when 
they are not supplied with a sufficient quantity of 
food, their bodies do not increase enough in thick- 
ness to rupture the old skin ; yet this becomes in due 
time hard and shrivelled from the absorption of the 
fat, though the insect, from its inability to break 
through, remains imprisoned. It might be sup- 
posed, that if plenty of food were at this moment 
supplied, it would subsequently acquire sufficient bulk 
and strength to rupture and escape from the old skin ; 
but this is impossible, as we have repeatedly found 
to our great disappointment. In the instance of 
the caterpillar of the moth, called by collectors the 
glory of Kent (Endromis versicolora, Stephens), 
which we found on a lime-tree at Lee, and were 
anxious to rear, fresh food was neglected to be 
given to it a short time before its third moult; and 
from that time it refused to eat, and soon died. By 





minute examination we found that it was impossible 
for it to eat, as all its organs were in a state of 
forward preparation for throwing off their exterior 
coat, — the old skin, in fact, covering them as a glove 
does the hand, and the new head lying distinctly 
farther back than the old. Neither the old man- 
dibles therefore, which were become dry and stiff* 
nor the new ones, which were encased in these, 
could bite the leaves ; and even if this had been 
accomplished, the entrance to the gullet was ob- 
structed by the shrivelling of the old skin there, 
and deglutition could not have taken place. The 
j)Oor caterpillar was in consequence starved to death 
in the midst of abundance of food, which it could 
neither chew nor swallow. Had it been skilfully 
assisted (as it was not) to get rid of the encum- 
brance of its old skin, we doubt not that it might 
ultimately have recovered^. Ileaumur mentions the 
very singular circumstance of a caterpillar of the 
six-spot burnet moth {Aiithrocera Filipendiiltpy 
Stephens) liaving actually, before its last moult, bit 
off portions of its old skin, which it first raised up 
and afterwards detached and tossed away. He did 
not, however, ascertain whether this was an 
accidental manoeuvre, or the usual process of this 
species of caterpillar t ; though the first, we think, is 
the more probable. 

The disorder called the Reds by the breeders of silk- 
worms, shows itself in red-coloured stains and blotches 
upon the skin ; while the caterpillars seem cramped, 
stupified, and suffocated, their rings dry up, and they 
look exactly like mummies. Count Dandolo refers this 
and most other diseases of silk- worms to cliemical 
agency. The great quantity of vegetable food 
devoured by caterpillars must be liable during hot 
weather to fermentation, if it be not digested 
* J.ll. t Reaumur, Mem. ii. 75. 




soon after it is swallowed, — a process which often 
terminates in the production of an acid; and as 
acids have a tendency to redden vegetable colours, 
the red blotches are plausibly ascribed to that 
cause. This conjecture, which originated with 
Count Dandolo, has been proved to be the fact by 
Professor Bnignatelli ; who made the very unexpected 
discovery that the red matter contains uric acid 
combined with ammonia, and consequently that the 
disorder is similar in its proximate cause to what is 
called the red gravel {Lithia renalis Goon) in 
man. This acid, then, from its excess in diseased 
caterpillars, impedes the process of nutrition, and 
prevents the animal from acquiring sufficient 
strength to throw off the old skin when the time for 
this arrives. 

It ap])ears, also, from the exi)eriments of Count 
Dandolo, that though caterpillars can live longer in 
air deprived of oxygen, or otherwise contaminated, 
than warm-blooded animals, yet they do not thrive, 
and are very liable to diseases, when they have not 
access to fresh air. In other words, the food which 
has been digested cannot without oxygen be con- 
verted into the fluid analogous to blood ; and in such 
cases, as we have repeatedly witnessed, instead of 
being appropriated to nourishment, it is thrown into 
the intestines, producing diarrhoea, or scour, as it is 
termed by the cultivators of the silk-worm. In this 
case the inner skin never acquires sufficient consist- 
ence, nor can the old one ever become dry enough to 
be cast. 

One of the most singular circumstances respecting 
the moult of caterpillars, is the manner in which the 
hairs are disposed in the new skin before moulting. 
These are not, like the feet and other organs, sheathed 
in the hairs of the old skin, but smoothly folded 
down in separate tufts; and if the old skin be 





removed a short time before it would be naturally 
cast, these tufts may be seen in a moist state, very 
similar to small wetted camel’ s-hair pencils lying 






close to the inner skin, — those on the fore part of the 
bo(fy laid towards the head, and fi’om the fourth rin^ 
backwards in a contrary direction. 

Swammerdam, Reaumur, and other naturalists, 
repeatedly tried the experiment of cutting off the 
hair from caterpillars about to moult, without in the 
least affecting; the hairs on the new skin ; but when a 
foot or any other member is accidentally mutilated, it 
is also wanting in the moulted caterpillar, facts 
which stronfl^ly corroborate the details we have given 
above. 

It is a still more singular circumstance, ascer- 
tained by Swammerdam, De Geer, Lyonnet, and 
Bonnet, that caterpillars and grubs not only cast 
their external skins, but also that which lines their 
breathing-tubes and intestines. “ Some days,” says 
Bonnet, “before the change, the caterpillar voids 
along with its excrements the membrane which in- 
vests the interior of its stomach and intestines. I 
have also remarked, that during the moult, packets of 
the tracheal vessels may be seen attached to the cast 
skin, and thrown off along with it.” De Geer has 
distinctly seen white fibres proceeding from the inte- 
rior spiracles of a butterfly remain attached to the 
pupa-case. He conjectures that these fibres consist 
of the delicate membrane which lines the wind-pipes ; 
and that they are moidted like the lining of the sto- 
mach of a lobster, or of a caterpillar. Lyonnet, in 
some measure, confirms this conjecture*. 

In his admirable description of the rhinoceros- 
beetle {Orycics jiasicoimis^ , Swammerdam says of 
the grub : “ Nothing in all nature is, in my opinion, a 
more wonderful sight, than the change of skin in 
these and other the like grubs. This matter, there- 
fore, deserves the greatest consideration, and is wor- 
thy to be called a specimen of Nature’s miracles. For 
? Bonnet, CEuvres, vol, \iii, pp.303>311. 





it is not the external skin only that these ^bs cast, 
like ser]:>ents ; but the throat and a part of the sto- 
mach, and even the inward surface of tlie great gut, 
change their skin at the same time. Yet this is not 
the whole of these wonders ; for at the same time 
some hundreds of breathing-pipes within the body of 
the grub cast also each its delicate and tender skin. 
These several skins are afterwards collected into 
eighteen thicker, and, as it were, compounded ropes, 
nine on each side of the body, which, when the skin 
is cast, slip gently and by degrees from within the 
body through the eighteen apertures or orifices of the 
tubes before described, having their tops or ends 
directed upwards towards the head. Two other 
branches, also, of the breathing-pi])es, that are 
smaller and have no point of respiration, cast a skin 
likewise. If any one separates the cast little ropes or 
congeries of breathing-pipes with a fine needle, he 



Exuvia and pulmonary vessels of the rhinoeeros beetle (Ori/ctes 
nnsivurnis^. A, magnified view of a pulmonary braiirli and 
vesicle; a «, pulmonary branch, composed of a membranous 
fcheath and cartilaginous rings; //, vesicle. B, laiwa; c c, nine 
reddish breathing-holes. C, exuvia, or cast skin of the larv^; 
dd ddf shins of the pulmonary tubes* 





will very distinctly see their several branches and 
ramifications, and also their rino^ed structure^/’ 

The caterpillars of moths and butterflies G;enerally 
cast their skins five times ; but some cast them seven 
and even ten times, as in the case, accordinp; to 
Cuvier, of the ^reat tio:er-moth {Arctia Caja, Ste- 
phens). By the breeders of silk-worms this natural 
process is ranked among their maladies ; and not alto- 
gether without reason, as it frequently proves fatal, 
from causes to which we have already alluded. 
For several hours, often for a whole day, after cast- 
ing the skin, the caterpillar continues sluggish and 
moves little ; and as the vessels are still replete with 
the fat previously absorbed, there is no stimulus for 
it to eat. But as soon as this supply is exhausted, 
it commences again to eat voraciously, in order to 
supply another store of fat for its succeeding moult. 

The moulting of caterpillars, it may be remarked, 
bears but a slight resemblance to the casting of 
the feathers in birds, and the hair in quadrupeds. 
Birds generally cast their feathers once, and many 
twice, a-year, namely, in autumn and in spring t ; 
and quadrupeds in a similar way cast their hair. But 
in both these cases the process is gradual, and 
resembles that of shedding the milk-teeth when the 
jaw enlarges. All of these changes, however, pro- 
duce considerable derangements in the animals ; and 
they are seldom accomplished without disordering 
health, and sometimes endangering life. The great 
difference between the changes in insects and the 
other classes of animals evidently arises from the 
difference of their internal structure. It must be 
obvious to all, for example, that the human body 
wears. As old age advances the bones waste away 
and become smaller, the muscles and skin shrink and 

* Swammerdam, Bib. Nat. yol. i. p. 135. 

f Temrainck, Manuel d’Omithol. Intr. 





grow dry and shrivelled, and the stature grows shorter 
and more diminutive. Even in youth similar changes 
are in progress, a system of absorbent vessels being 
provided for removing worn materials from all parts 
of the body, and carrying at least one portion of these 
along with the blood into the lungs, whence it goes 
off in minute particles with the breath. No similar 
process of removing worn materials has, so far as we 
know, been discovered in caterpillars; and it is, in- 
deed, improbable, as the successive changes of the 
skin accomplish all that is wanted in this respect. That 
the worn materials, however, of the cast skins are 
not altogether useless, appears from the singular 
circumstance of the new-clothed caterpillar often 
devouring them, as that of the hawthorn-butterfly 
(Pieris Craimgi, Stephens) does the shell of the 
egg it has Just been hatched from^. It may be 
remarked, that it is chiefly the larger caterpillars of 
the puss and some of the hawk-moths which have 
been observed to eat ihcir skins ; none of the spi- 
nous or liairy ones seem to relish this strange sort of 
food. In the case of the warty-eft (Triton palustris, 
Elem.), wliich frequently casts its outer skin, we have 
observed that it is frequently eaten by the animal 
itselff. 

The grubs of some two-winged flics (Muscidee), 
and of wasps, bees, ants, and ichneumon flies, do 
not change their skins like the larvae we have just 
been considering ; but spiders and other allied tribes 
(Arachnidre), though they exhibit no other appear- 
ance of larvae, moult frequently during their growth. 
Goldsmith, amongst other curious mis-statements 
respecting a house-spider which he himself observed, 
asserts tliat it “lived three years, every year it 
changed its skin, and got a new set of legs: I 
have sometimes plucked off a limb, which grew 
* JBonnetj QSuvres, vol. ii. p, 18. *}• J. R. 






again in two or three days” The fact is, that 
few spiders live one year, much less three ; and all 
their changes of skin are gone through in a few 
months, and their acquiring new legs for mutilated 
ones takes some weeks. It is probable, indeed, that 
Goldsmith never thought of ascertaining the iden- 
tity of this spider ; if the whole story be not a mere 
fancy, like his assertion that spiders, “ when they 
walk upon such bodies as are ])erfectly smooth, as 
looking-glass or polished marble, squeeze a little 
sponge which grows near the extremity of their 
claws, and thus ditiusing a glutinous substance, 
adhere to the surface till they make a second 
step*.” Neither spiders nor any insects with 
which we are acquainted can thus produce gum 
from their feet to aid them in walking upon glass, 





thoii^li the house-fly can walk thus by causing a 
vacuum between its feet and the glass, as we shall 
subsetiuently describe at length. But the spider and 
all caterpillars can only climb in such cases by con- 
structing a ladder of ropes, as is represented by 
Rosel in the instance of the goat moth caterpillar. 

One of these caterpillars, which we possessed* * * § , 
made its escape in a manner much more unexpected, 
if not so ingenious, by means of its great muscular 
power, in which, it is not a little singular, that 
insects, as Baron Haller remarks, appear to excel in 
proportion to their dimiriutiveness. Of this we have 
a remarkable example in the common flea, which 
can draw seventy or eighty times its own weight t* 
The muscular strength of this agile creature enables 
it not only to resist the ordinary pressure of the 
fingers in our endeavours to crush it, but to take 
leaps to the distance of two hundred times its own 
length ; which will appear more surprising when we 
consider that a man, to equal the agility of a flea, 
should be able to leap between three and four hun- 
dred yards. The flea, however, is excelled in leap- 
ing by the cuckoo-spit frog-hopper {Teiligonia spu- 
maria, Olivier), which will sometimes leap two or 
three yards, that is, more than 250 times its own 
length 1; as if (to continue the comparison) a man 
of ordinary stature should vault through the air 
to the distance of a cjuarter of a mile. The minute 
observation by which such unexpected facts are dis- 
covered has in all ages been a fertile source of ridi- 
cule for the wits, from the time when Aristophanes 
in his Clouds introduced Socrates measuring the 
leap of a fiea§, up to Peter Pindar’s lampoon on 

* See Insect Architecture, p. 189. 

Haller, Physiol., vol. ix. p. 2. 

X De Geer, Mem., vol. iii. p. 178. 

§ Aristophanes, /S. 






Sir Joseph Banks and the emperor-butterfly. To 
all such flippant wit we have merely to retort the 
question of the Abbe de la Pluche, “ if the Deity 
thought insects worthy of his divine skill in form- 
ing them, ought we to consider them beneath our 
notice* ?” 

MoulFet, in his Theatre of Insectsf, mentions that 
an English mechanic, named Mark, to shew his skill, 
constructed a chain of gold as long as his finger, 
which, together with a lock and key, were dragged 
along by a flea ; and he had heard of another flea 
which could draw a golden chariot, to which it was 
harnessed. Bingley tells us that Mr. Boverich, a 
watchmaker in the Strand, exhibited some years ago 
a little ivory chaise with four wheels, and all its 
proper apparatus, and the figure of a man sitting on 
the box, all of which were drawn by a single flea. 
The same mechanic afterwards constructed a minute 
landau, which opened and shut by springs, with 
the figures of six horses harnessed to it, and of a 
coachman on the box, a dog between his legs, four 
persons inside, two footmen behind it, and a postilion 
riding on one of the fore horses, which were all 
easily dragged along by a single flea | . Gold- 
smith remarks upon these displays of pulician 
strength, that the feats of Samson would not, to a 
community of fleas, appear to be at all miraculous §. 
Eatreille tells us a no less marvellous story of 
another flea, which dragged a silver cannon twenty- 
four times its own weight, mounted on wheels, and 
did not manifest any alarm when this was charged 
with gunpowder and fired olf ||. Professor Bradley, 
of Cambridge, also mentions a remarkable instance 
of insect strength in a stag-beetle {Lucanus Cervus) 

Spectacle de la Nature, i. 3. f Page 275. 

J Auimal Biography, iii. 468. § Animated Nature, iv. 178. 

II Nouv. Diet. d'Hist. Nat. xxviii. 249. 






which he saw carrying a wand a foot and a half long, 
and half an inch thick, and even flying with it to the 
distance of several yards 

It has been remarked, with reference to these facts 
of comparative size and strength, that a cock-chafer 
is six times stronger than a horse; and Linnaeus 
observes, that if an elephant were as strong in 
proportion as a stag-beetle, it would be able to 
tear up rocks and level mountains. The muscular 
power of fish, however, seems to bear a near compa- 
rison with that of insects. “ I have seen,” says Sir 
Gilbert Blane, “ the sword of a sword-fish sticking 
in a plank which it had penetrated from side to side ; 
and when it is considered that the animal was then 
moving through a medium even a thousand times 
more dense than that through which a bird cleaves 
its course at different heights of the atmosphere, and 
that this was performed in the same direction with 
the ship, what a conception do we form of this dis- 
play of muscular strength It should, however, 
be observed, that the muscular power of the sword- 
fish is principally shewn in the rate of swimming, by 
which the animal overtakes the ships, and thus ac- 
quires the momentum which determines the force 
of the blow. We may understand the proximate 
cause of the strength of insects, when we look 
at the prodigious number of their muscles — the 
fleshy belts or ribbons by whose means all animal 
motions are performed. The number of these in- 
struments of motion in the human body is reckoned 
about 5*29 ; but in the caterpillar of the goat-moth, 
Lyonnet counted more than seven times as many : 
in the head, 228 ; in the body, 1647 ; and around 
the intestines, 2186 ; which, after deducting 20, 

* Bradley, Phil. Account, p. 184. 
f Sir Gilbert Blatie, Select Diss. p.281. 

R 







common to the head and gullet, gives a total of 
4061 * 

“ Any lady,"' says Kirby and Spence, “ fond of 
going to be tempted with an exhibition of fine lace, 
would experience an unexpected gratification could 
she be brought to examine the muscles of a caterpillar 
under the microscope; with wonder and delight she 
would survey the innumerable muscular threads that 
in various directions envelope the gullet, stomach, 
and lower intestines of one of those little animals — 
some rumiing longitudinally, others transversely, 
others crossing each other obliquely, so as to form 
a pattern of rhomboids or squares ; others, again, 
surrounding the intestine like so many rings, and 
almost all exhibiting the appearance of being woven, 
and resembling fine lace, — one pattern ornamenting 
one organ ; another, a second ; and another, a 
third 

We put the caterpillar of the goat-moth, to which we 
have before alluded, under a bellglass, which weighed 
nearly half a pound, and of course more than ten 
times the weight of the insect ; yet it raised it up 
with the utmost ease. We then })laced over the 
glass the largest book which we had at hand — 
“ Loudon’s Encyclopaedia of Gardening,” consisting 
of about IhOO j)ages of strong paper, and weighing 
four pounds ; but this did not succeed in preventing 
the escape of the animal, which raised the glass, 
though loaded with tiie book, nearly a hundred 
times its own weight, and made good its exitj. 
The multiplicity of its muscles above enumerated, 
two hundred and thirty-six of which arc situated in 
the legs alone, will enable us to understand how this 
extraordinary feat was performed. Even this power 
of muscle, however, would doubtless have been un- 

^ Lyonnet; Traite Anat. dela Chenille, pp. 108, 584. 
f Intr. iv. 18G. J J. K. 





availing in raising the loaded glass, except in con- 
nexion with tw^o favourable circumstances under 
which the experiment was performed, and which are 
necessary to be borne in mind to render the opera- 
tion perfectly credible : — 1st, that the wedge-like 
form of the caterpillar’s head, in connexion with the 
peculiar shape of the glass, enabled it to lift it ; — 
and 2d, that, one side of the glass resting on the 
table, the insect only bore half the weight of the glass 
and book. 



Caterpillar of Cossus efecaping from under a loaded glass. 

A peculiar toughness of external covering some- 
times supplies the place of this muscular power in 
caterpillars. A singular instance occurs in the 
history of a common downy two-winged fly, with 
grey shoulders and a brown abdomen, (Eristalis 
itiiaxy Fahr.). The grub, which is rat-tailed, lives 
in muddy pools, with the water of which it has some- 
times been taken up by paper-makers, and, though 
subjected to the immense pressure of their nia- 





cflinery, it has survived in a miraculous manner. 
Such is the account oripnally ^iveu by Linneeus *. 
A recent compiler, mistaking Kirby and Spence's very 
apt comparison of this ^rub to a London porter 
nicknamed Leather-coat- J ack, from his being able to 
suffer carriages to drive over him without receiving 
any injury, forthwith fancies the porter to be 
“ another insect, called leather-coat-jack,” which 
“will bear heavy carriage wheels to pass over 
it with impunity.” Since the grub in question 
is ratlier soft, it must be the tough texture of the 
skin which preserves it, as in the similar instance of 
the caterpillar (figured at page 1*25) of the privet 
hawk-moth {Sphinx Li^nstri^, which Bonnet 
squeezed under water till it was as flat and empty as 
the finger of a glove, yet within an hour it became 
plump and lively as if nothing had happened t* 

The instances, however, which we have just re- 
corded are peculiar rather than general, for cater- 
pillars are for the most part very easily bruised and 
otherwise injured. Tliose which are large and heavy, 
therefore, such as the cater])illars of the hawk-moths 
{Sphingidce), have the power of attaching themselves 
very firmly to the spots where they feed and rest by 
means of the numerous hooks of tlieir pro-legs J, so 
that it is almost impossible to detach them from the 
branch to which they are clinging ; and hence col- 
lectors always cut tfie branch itself. All of them 
have the means of breaking their fall by spinning a 
cable of silk, which they uniformly do when acci- 
dentally forced to quit their situation. Their method 
of climbing up this cable again is wmrthy of observa- 
tion, for it differs consiclerably from the maiimuvre 
of spiders, under the same circumstances ; as must be 

* Fauna Suecica, 1799. 
t Bonnet, (Euvres, vol. ii. p. 124. 
t See Insect Architecture , p. 307, right-hand figure. 

r3 



 

obvious when we consider that the spinneret of the 
spider is placed near its tail, while that of the cater- 
pillar is in its mouth. The spider accordingly drops 
head downwards*, but when it wishes to remount 
the line, it turns round, and raising its head, it 
stretches its long tri])le-clawed legs t up the line, 
which it bundles up while it ascends. The cater- 
pillar, on the other hand, having very short legs, with 
only one smooth claw J, would make but slow pro- 
gress in this manner, which it does not attempt ; but 
bending its head downwards till it can grasp the 



Methods used by spiders and caterpillars for ascending: their 
threads. The caterpillars are those of the einperor>nioth 
QSatumia Pavonid), 


* Insect Archit., page 336. f Ibid., p, 367# 
X Ibid., p. 307, left-hand figure. 


 


cord with its hinder pair of feet, and then raisins: its 
head to the perpendicular position again, it thus 
effects one step, and proceeds in the same manner 
till it reaches the top. 

Other caterpillars, when they are disturbed, employ 
a different method of breaking their fall without 
spinning a thread, taking advantage, for this purpose, 
of the long hairs which cover their body. Those 
who have seen a hedge-hog {Ermaceus Europeej/s'), 
when attacked by a dog, roll itself up into a prickly 
ball, will readily conceive the manoeuvre of the cater- 
pillars to which we allude, it being precisely similar. 







Should one of those hairy caterpillars, when feeding 
near the top of a plant, be disturbed or alarmed, it 
instantly coils itself up into a ball and drops among 
the grass. Here it is not only difficult to discover, 
but equally so to lay hold of it ; for the pliancy and 
smoothness of the hair causes it to slip through the 
fingers as readily almost as quicksilver. The grub 
of the museum heciXe {A nthrenus Miiseorum^ Fabr.), 
the pest of our cabinets, affords another example of 
the same circumstance, being covered with tufts of 
diverging hairs which cause it to glide through 
the fingers as if they had been oiled. The six long 
tufts at the tail, which it can erect at pleasure, are 
composed of hairs, which rise from a bulb of the 
form of a halberd, and are curiously jointed with 
cones through their whole extent. The bead wood- 
louse {Armadillo vulgaris, C'uvieh), though not 
furnished with hairs, rolls itself up into a round ball, 
trusting to the fine polish of its back for escape, and 
to its hardness for defence. “ One of our maid-ser- 
vants,’* says Swammerdam, “ once found a number 
of these wood-lice in the garden contracted into 
round balls, and thinking she had found a kind of 
coral beads, she began to put them one after another 
on a thread ; it soon happened that the little crea- 
tures, being obliged to throw off the mask, resumed 
their motions : on seeing which, she was so greatly 
astonished, that she flung down both them and the 
thread in great haste, crying out, and running 
away 

The hairs with which the caterpillars of some of 
our finest native butterflies are furnished, are some- 
what of the nature of bristles or thorns, being hard, 
inflexible, and sharply pointed. This is the case with 
the caterpillars of all the fan-winged butterflies 
{Vanessce), We have alluded to that of the pea- 
* Swammerdam, pt. i. p. 174. 






cock’s eye, which must be conspicuous to birds from 
its dark black colour, prettily dotted with white, aided 
besides by the gregarious habit of feeding in a 
colony of several dozens together; but if a thrush or 
a sparrow pounces upon one of them, the formidable 
spines must present an obstacle somewhat unex- 
pected, perhaps, to the making of a comfortable 
meal. The ass, indeed, seems to relish the piquant 
stimulus of the thorns or thistles, and sheep, goats, 
and deer will browse on the still sharper leaves of 
holly*; but we think none of our soft-billed birds 
would venture on a thorny caterpillar. Madame 
Merian says “that the spines of the caterpillar of 
Urania Leilas are as hard as iron wiret*” Abbot 
tells us that many American caterpillars sting like a 



VVilhei’ingj Cot. Arrangement. Note on Ilex aquifolium. 
f Merian, Inject. Surinam; xxix. 





nettle, and blister the skin when touched ; which is 
also partly exemplified in that of our own ^ipsey moth 
(Jlypogymna dispar) ^ the slender hairs of which 
irritate and inflame the skin. The spines, in some of 
the caterpillars alluded to, are like smooth thorns or 
prickles ; but on others, they are beset, or feathered 
with shorter spines. 

It is probably for some purpose of defence or con- 
cealment that the larvae of several insects form a sin- 
gular covering for themselves of their own excrements, 
which they pile up for that purpose upon their backs. 
This material, as Kirby has observed, is not always so 
offensive as might be supposed, being in some in- 
stances (Cassida maculata et Imatidium Leayamim) 
formed into fine branching filaments, like lichens or 
dried fucus^. Others, however, which Reaumur 
aptly terms Hottentots, do not appear quite so cleanly. 
One of these, rather uncommon, was observed, 
many years ago, by Vallisnieri, which he calls the 
cantharidis of the lily {Crioceris inerdi^era^ Leach), 
and may be found in May on Solomon’ s-seal, and 
other liliaceous plants, which it devours and renders 
unsightly. Under its singular canojiy, it has no 
resemblance to an insect, but looks like an oblong 
ball of chewed grass stuck on the lily. The beetle 
which is produced from the grub is of a fine brownish 
scarlet, and elegantly sculptured with minute dots. 
Another species, more abundant, similar in man- 
ners, and less than half the size of the preceding 
(C. cyandla. Panzer), is of a fine blue colour, with 
similar dottings. The grub of the green tortoise- 
beetle (Cassida equestris, Fabr.), usually found on 
burdocks, is furnished with a more ingenious me- 
chanism for this purpose, consisting of a fork in its 
tail, which it can depress or elevate, so as to carry its 
strange canopy higher or lower, at pleasure. Like 
? Linn, Trans, iii. lO. 






the two preceding insects, this grub is also most unex- 
pectedly transformed into a very pretty green beetle, 
of the form of a tortoise, the wing-cases of which 
project all round as a covering for the legs. 






A, Cassida eqiiestris. B, its jjrub magnified to shew its anal 
forks. C, the same with its canopy of excrements. 

The larva of the golden-eyed fly {Chrysopa perla, 
Leach), whose very singular eggs we formerly men- 
tioned, covers itself with the fragments of the aphides 
which it has devoured, — a moving sepulchre of dry 
bones 

A very familiar instance of this mode of defence 
occurs in the larva of the cuckoo-spit frog-hopper 
{Tettigoiiia spvmaria, Olivier), so frequently seen 
in Runimer on willows, rose-trees, lychnis, grass, and 
other plants. This creature is of an exceedingly soft 
structure ; and it is probably, therefore, as a protection 
from the sun, that it throws up all around it the little 
tuft of white froth, called, from a popular mistake, 
cuckco-s])it. The peifect insect is covered with hard 
wing-cases, of a brown colour, with a white spot and 
pale double band. 

It would appear that the hair, which we have de- 
scribed above as covering the bodies of some cater- 
pillars, is paitly intended by nature to defend them 
Ifoni cold during the winter. The truth of this 
? R^aumuF;^ hi, 380 &c. 







amounts almost to demonstration, from a circumstance 
discovered respecting* ants by the younger Huber. 
“ The larvae of some ants,” says he, “ pass the 
winter heaped up in the lowermost floor of their 
dwelling. I have found, at this period, very small 
larva? in the nests inhabited by the yellow ant {For- 
mica Jlavd), the field ant {F, ccespiium ?), and some 
other species. Those that are to pass the winter in 
this state are covered with hair, which is not the case 
in summer ; affording another proof of that Provi- 
dence at which naturalists are struck at every step^.” 
The same growth of a warmer clothing for the 
winter is well knowui to occur among quadrupeds, 
particularly those which inhabit the higher northern 
atitudes f. 

Upon the same principle, a number of the cater- 
pillars which are hatched late in autumn, and are 
destined to live over winter, are provided with a 
warm clothing of hair or down. This is the case 
even with most of those which construct for them- 

*** M. P. Huber on Ants, p. 82. 
f See MenagerieS; vol. i.; p. 50. 





selves a snu^ nest of silk, such as the caterpillars of 
the brown-tail moth (Porthesia auriflya), and those 
of the mallow butterfly (Hesperia malvm). But there 
are others which are provided with no extraneous 
coverin*^, farther than the occasional shelter they 
may obtain by crawling under withered leaves, the 
copings of w^alls, or the bend of a branch. Among 
these some are thickly covered with hair, of which 
we have an instance in the caterpillar of the great 
tiger moth (Arctia caja, Stephens), whose mode of 
rolling itself up into a ball we have already described ; 
but a more remarkable example occurs in the cater- 
pillar of the drinker moth (Odo/ieslUi potatoria^ 
Germar.), whose very feet are covered with fine 
shaggy down. It is this, no doubt, which preserves 
it from becoming torpid during winter; and as it 
feeds on grass, it can alw^ays procure food during 
the severest weather. When a fine sunny day chances 
to break in upon the gloom of winter, this pretty 
insect may be often seen stretched at its full length 
on a low twig, or the withered stem of a nettle, 
basking in the sunsliine with apparent delight. We 
kept one of them in our study during the winter of 
1827-8 ; and it continued to feed sparingly till Febru- 
ary, when, owing to neglect, it unfortunately died*. 

There are several other caterpillars, however, 
which live during the winter, in a no less exposed 
manner, without being provided with any covering of 
hair ; though some of these, we may remark, do not 
continue to feed, but become w^holly or partially tor- 
pid, such as the caterpillar of the magpie moth 
(Abraxas grossulariata). Of this species we have 
observed numbers, about as thick as a crow-quill, 
remaining in the same position for weeks together, and 
never moving, except when some very considerable 
change of temperature, either colder or hotter, took 
place. They do not seem to select the warmest places 
? J. R, 





within their choice, bein^ usually found on an exposed 
currant branch, or under the upper cross-bar of a 
paling*. We observed one, during several months of 
the winter of 1828-9, stationary under the lintel of a 
door, where a continual current of air must have ren- 
dered it exceedingly cold. We have endeavoured 
to rouse some of these from their semi-torpidity by 
keeping them in a warm room ; but though they 
would make a few lethargic and unwilling move- 
ments, none of them would eat, and the change 
always proved fatal*. 

We might be led from this instance to conclude 
that caterpillars, not covered with hair, become tor- 
pid during winter; but such general conclusions 



a, Young caterpillar of the drinher, 6, the same full grown, 
c, smooth caterpillar of the angle shades, (f, the moth of the 

tame. 

? J.R. 




from particular facts seldom accord with actual 
nature, and ought never to be indulged in by natural- 
ists who study accuracy. Another caterpillar, not 
uncommon in gardens, on the hollyhock and other 
plants, would at once disprove such an inference: 
we allude to that of the angle shades (Phlo^ophora 
7neticnlosa, Ochsrnheimeu). This caterpillar, which 
is exceedingly smooth, and is remarkable for chang- 
ing in its last moult from a clear green to a yellow- 
ish brown, we have found during the whole winter in 
the folds of the fresh leaves of hollyhocks, cabbage- 
lettuce, savoys, &c., quite lively, and feeding in open 
weather by no means sparingly. Its defence from 
cold may perhaps consist in a superabundant supply 
of fat, which we may infer that it possesses from the 
soft flabby aspect. It is this circumstance which seems 
to protect whales from the polar cold ; as well as 
bears during their torpidity. 

Some caterpillars seem to have no less power of 
resisting severe cold than eggs ; as authentic in- 
stances are recorded of their revival after being frozen 
stitf, — a circumstance also rej)orled of some serpents 
in North America Dr. Lister in this way revived 
caterpillars frozen so hard as to chink like stones 
when thrown into a glassf ; and Mr, Stickney ex- 
posed some grubs of a common crane-fly {Tipvla 
oleracea, Linn.) to a severe frost, till they were con- 
gealed into masses of ice, yet several of them sur- 
vived];. Reaumur, however, was unsuccessful in 
similar experiments on the gregarious moth of the 
fir {Cnethocampa Piiyocampa^ Stephens), so cele- 
brated among the ancients as a poison §; for none of 
them survived a cold of 2" below zero, Fahr., by 
which they were frozen to ice||. 

* John Hunter, Obs. on Anim.Econ. p. 99. 

Goedart, Ins>crt. p. 79. ] Kirby and Speme, Intr. ii. p.453. 

§ Pill). Hist. Nat. 38, 9. || Mem. ii. 





Voracity of Caterpillars, Grubs, and Maggots. 


Insects, in the early stag;c of their existence, may 
be compared to an Indian hunter, who issues from 
his hut, as they do from the cfrs;, with a keen 
appetite. As soon as he is successful in finding 
game, he gorges himself till he can eat no more, 
and then laying him down to sleep, only bestirs 
himself again to go through a similar process of 
gorging and sleeping; just so the larvie of insects 
doze away a day or more when casting their skins, 
and then make up for their long fast by eating with 
scarcely a pause. Professor Bradley calculates 
(though upon data somewhat questionable) that a 
pair of sparrows carry to their young about three 
thousand caterpillars in a week ^ ; but this is nothing 
when compared with the voracity of caterpillars. Of 
the latter we have more accurate calculations than that 
of Bradley, who multiplied the number of caterpillars 
which he observed taken in one hour by the hours of 
sunlight in a week. Redi ascertained by experiment 
that the maggot of the common blow-fly {Musca car- 
naria) becomes from 140 to 200 times heavier within 
twenty-four hours f ; and the culthators of silk- worms 
know the exact quantities of leaves which their broods 
devour. “ The result,^' .says Count Dandolo, “ of 
the most exact calculations is, tliat the quantity of 
leaves drawn from the tree employed for each ounce 
of eggs amounts to 1609 lbs. 8 oz., divided in the 
following manner — 

? Account of the Works of Nature. 

f Esperienze de Inselii, p. 23. 






First age . . 
Second age 
Third age . 
Fourth age 
Fiftli age . . 


Sorted leaves. Refuse. 

lbs. oz. lbs. oz. 
.60 18 
.. 18 0 3 0 

.. GO 0 9 0 

..180 0 27 0 

..1098 0 102 0 


Per ounce of eggs of sorted leaves . . . .lbs. 1 362 0 1 42 8 

Refuse 142 8 

Lost from the lea\es by evaporation, &c.. . 105 0 

1G09 8 


He adds to this curious table, that from the 1362 lbs. 
of sorted leaves 2 :iven to the caterpillars, it is neces- 
sary to deduct 155 lbs. 7 oz. 4 drs. of litter, consist- 
injr of fragments of uneaten leaves, stalks, fruit, &c., 
and consequently that they actually devour only 1206 
lbs. 4 oz. 4 drs. It is necessary also to mention that 
of this quantity 745 lbs. 8 oz. of diin^ are carried from 
the hurdles; and consequently there is only dijrested 
771 lbs. 7 oz. 4 drs. of pure leaves, which produce 
120 lbs. of silk cocoons, — cciviup: a loss by evaporation 
from the worms in and vapour of 406 lbs. 4 oz., 
nearly three parts of this loss occurring^ iji the six last 
days of the tilth age 'J'hese deductions, however, 
do not aliect the amount eaten by the caterpillars 
produced from 1 oz. of eggs, which is upwards of 
1200 lbs. A single silk-worm, as we before men- 
tioned, consumes within thirty days about 60,000 
times its primitive weight. 

When we take these facts into consideration, we 
need not be surprised at the extensive ravages com- 
mitted by other caterpillars, many of which are much 
larger than the silk-worm, and all of them produced 
in broods of considerable numbers. Mr. Stephens, 
in his valuable catalogue of British insects, a work of 


? Count Dandolo’s Art of rearing Silk-Worms, p. 322-24, 
Eng. Transl. 




very extraordinary accuracy, enumerates nearly 2000 
species of native moths and butterflies ; and as the 
females of these are for the most part very prolific, we 
have little reason to be surprised at the occasional 
extent of their depredations. The 2000 species just 
mentioned are, besides, not more than a fifth of our 
native insects, most of the gTu])s and maggots of 
which are exceedingly voracious and destructive. 

It appears to be indispensable for most insects to 
feed copiously during their larva state, in order to 
supply a store of nutriment for their subsequent 
changes ; for many of them eat nothing, and most of 
them little, after they have been transformed into pu- 
pae and perfect insects. What is no less wonderful, a 
corresponding change takes place in the internal 
formation of their organs of digestion. A cater- 
pillar will, as we have seen, devour in a month 
60,000 times its own weight of leaves, while the 
moth or the butterfly into which it is afterw^ards trans- 
formed may not sip a thousandth part of its weight 
of honey during its whole existence. Now, in the 
caterpillar, nature has provided a most capacious sto- 
mach, which, indeed, fills a very large portion of its 
body ; but in the butterfly the stomach is diminished 
to a thread. By a series of minute dissections, 
conducted with great .skill, Heroldt traced these 
changes, as they successively occur, from the cater- 
pillar to the butterfly. In the caterjnllar he found 
the gullet, the honey stomach, the true stomach, and 
the intestines capacious. Two dajs after its first 
change all these are visibly diminished, as well as the 
silk reservoirs, which, in a chrysalis eight days old, 
have wholly disappeared ; while the base of the gullet 
is dilated into a crop, and the stomach still more con- 
tracted into a spindle form. When near its change 
into the perfect insect the gullet is jjftill more drawn 
out, while the crop, still small, is n^w on one side of 





View of tbe npper side. 



A, B,C, The »8o- 
pliagus Hnd its ap* 
pendages. 

D, K, The sto- 
mach; — a pair of 
muscles wind spi- 
rally round it, and 
Ly their contraction 
squeeze the digested 
food into the intes- 
tines. 

K, F, The first 
large intestine. F, 

G, the second. G, 

H, the third. 

I, I, The six small 
intestines. 


View of the under side. 



Viscera of the Cossns. 







A, A, Caterpillar of Vanessa urticae mag^nifiecl. a — ft, the 
intestines of the same, a, the gullet, h h h b, pulmonary tubes, 
cc, ligament of the stomach, d rf (2d, transparent rings of the 
.atme. k f, small intestines. //, their origin, y gh/i^ their wind- 
ings. t ft, the rectum. 






the gullet ; and in the butterfly is enlarged into a 
honey stomach. 



Intestinal canals of the caterpillar, pnpa, and butterfly.i 

1. Caterpillar, a, the ttsophagiis. b, the stonmcb, e rf, the 

two large intestines. 

2. Pupa /mo days old. o, the oesophagus. the stomach, ccf, 

H e two large intestines. 

3. Pupa dajs old. o, dilation of the oesophagus, forming 

the crop or honvy^stomat //• 

4. rn])a iniuiediatcly before its transformation, o, the honey- 

sloiiiaeh become a lateral appendage ot the oesophagus. 6, 

tlie stomach, c d, the laige intestines. 

5. Butterfly, o, honey-stoinach. h, the digesting stomach, c'd, 
the large intestines, become very long. 

It is remarkable that in men of such extraordinary 
appetite as amounts to a di.sease {Bviimia, Cullen), 
the natural capacity of the stomach, which, accord- 
ing to Blumenbach, contains about three pints*, 
is very much enlarged. This was peculiarly the 
case with Tarare, an Italian juggler, who, from swal- 
lowing flints, whole baskets of fruit, &c., seems 
to have enlarged the capacity of his stomach so as 
to render his appetite insatiable. M. Tessicr, of the 
Infirmary at Versailles, where Tarare died of con- 
sumption, found on examination that his stomach 
? Blumenbach, Physiol., s. xxiii. 





was prodigiously distendfed*. The same must have 
been the case with the French prisoner at Liverpool, 
who, on the testimony of Dr. Cochrane, consumed, 
in one day, sixteen pounds of raw meat and tallow 
candles, besides five bottles of porter 

The mandibles of caterpillars, which do not act 
perpendicularly like the jaws of quadrupeds, but ho- 
rizontally, are for the most part very sharp and stron*^, 
bein^ of a hard, horny substance, and moved by 
powerful muscles. They are, fbr the most part, 
slightly bent in the form of a reaping-hook ; having 
the concavity indented with tooth-shaped projections, 
formed out of the substance of the jaw, and not socketed 
as the teeth of quadrupeds. These are made to meet 
like the blades of a pair of pincers ; and in some cases 
they both chop and grind the I'ood J. Besides these 
there is a pair of jaws (maxi Her) placed on each side 
of the middle portion of the under lip; and from their 
being of a softer substance they seem to be more for 
the purpose of retaining the food, than for mastication. 
This formidable apparatus for masticating {Trophi) 
is well ad jpted to supply the large demands of the 
capacious stomachs ot larva'; and when we consider 
that all of them are employed in eating at least for 
ten or twelve hours in the day, and a great number 
during the night, we need not wonder at their ex- 
tensive ravages upon the substances on which they 
feed. It may be interesting, however, to give a few 
examples of their destructiveness ; and w ith this v iew 
it will be convenient to consider them under the three 
popular names of caterpillars, grubs, and maggots. 

Caterpillars. 

The ravages of caterpillars are amongst the most 

* M. Percy in Rapport d'institute Nalionelle. 

T Med. and Phys. Journ,, iii.^ 209. X Cuvier, Anat, Coin., ili., 322. 






conspicuous of insect depredations, in consequence 
of their beinp^ committed upon the leaves of trees, 
bushes, and plants, which are often stripped as bare 
as in winter. E\en tlie smaller sorts of caterpillars 
become, from their multiplicity, sometimes as destruc- 
tive as those which are of considerable magnitude. 
During the summer of 1 827 we were told that an extra- 
ordinary bli^rjithiid suddenly destroyed the leaves of all 
the trees in Oak of Honour Wood, Kent. On going 
thither, we Ibund the report had been little exagge- 
rated ; for though it was “ in the leafy month of 
June,” there was scarcely a leaf to be seen on the 
oak-trees, which constitute the greater portion of the 
wood. But we were rather surprised when we dis- 
covered, on examination, that this extensive destruc- 
tion had been effected by one of the small solitary 
leaf-rollers (Tortrix I'iridana^ Haworth) ^ ; for one 
of this sort seldom consumes more than four or five 
leaves, ii* so much, during its existence. The num- 
ber, therefore, of these caterpillars must have been 
almost beyond conception ; and that of the moths, 
the previous year, must also have been very great: 
for the mother moth only lays from fifty to a hundred 
eggs, which are glued to an oak branch, and remain 
during the winter. It is remarkable that in this 
wood during the two following summers these cater- 
pillars did not abound t- 

Instances like this, however, from solitary species, 
are, we believe, less common than those of the ravages 
of gregarious caterpillars. In 1826, colonies of the 
buff-tip {Fygara byctphala, Ochsenheim.) were in 
some parts of the country very abundant. We re- 
marked them particularly at Harrow-on-the-Hill, and 
at Compton-Basset in Wiltshire. From their feeding 
in company, they strip a tree, branch after branch, 

* See figures of this caterpillar and its moth in “ Insect Archi- 
tecture,” pp. 162-3. t J* Ik 





scarcely leaving the fragment of a leaf, till a great 
portion of it is completely bare. Some of the magni- 
ficent beeches in Compton Park, from this cause, ap- 
peared with the one-half of their branches leafless 
and naked, while the other half was untouched. 
Besides the beech, these caterpillars feed on the oak, 
the lime, the hazel, the elm, and the willow. When 
newly hatched they may be readily discovered, from 
their singular manner of marshalling themselves, like 
a file of soldiers, on a single leaf, only eating it half 
through ; and in their more advanced stage, their 
gaudy stripes of yellow and black render them very 
conspicuous on the branches which they have nearly 
stripped bare. The cuckoo feeds as greedily upon 
them as they do on leaves , and may be seen early in 



Ravages of the bnflf-tip caterpillar {Pi/geera bucephala). fl, the 
fall'grovrn caterpillar, b, the moth, c c, a line of young cater* 
pillars, advancing along a leaf and devouring it half through as 
they march, d, the eggs. 




the morning perched in the midst of their colonies, 
and devouring them by dozens*. 

Those caterpillars which feed upon fruit-trees and 
hedge shrubs are still more likely to attract attention ; 
since, when any of these are abundant, it is scarcely 
possible to stir out of doors without observing them. 
Thus, in the suburbs of London, in the summer of 
1S29, not only the orchards and gardens, but every 
hedge, swarmed with the lackey caterpillars {Clisio- 
campa neustria)^ which are what naturalists term 
polypha^om feeders, that is, they do not confine them- 
selves to a particular sort of tree, but relish a great 
number. The hawthorn, the black thorn, and the 
oak, however, seem to be most to their taste ; while 
they are rare on the willow, and we have never ob- 
served them on the poplar, or the elder. 

Another of what may be appropriately termed 
the encamping caterpillars, of a much smaller size, 
and of a different genus, is the small ermine {Ypo- 
nomeuta padetla), which does not, besides, feed quite 
so indiscriminately ; but when the bird-cherry (Pru- 
nus padus), its peculiar food, is not to be had, it 
will put up with black thorn, phim-tree, hawthorn, 
and almost any sort of orchard fruit-tree. With re- 
spect to such caterpillars as feed on different plants, 
Reaumur and De Geer make the singular remark, 
that in most cases they would only eat the sort of 
plant upon which they were originally hatched f. 
We verified this, in the case of the caterpillar in ques- 
tion, upon two different nests which we took, in 1806, 
from the bird-cherry at Crawfordland, in Ayrshire. 
Upon bringing these to Kilmarnock, we could not 
readily supply them with the leaves of this tree ; and 
having then only a slight acquaintance with the ha- 
bits of' insects, and imagining they would eat any 
sort of leaf, we tried them with almost every thing 
* J. R. 1 1^® Geer, Mem. i. 3 1 9. 

T 






green in the vicinity of the town ; but they refused to 
touch any which we offered them. After they had 
fasted several days, we at length procured some fresh 
branches of the bird-cherry, with which they gorged 
themselves so that most of them died. Last sum- 
mer (1829) w e again tried a colony of these cater- 
pillars, found on a seedling plum-tree at Lee, in 
Kent, with black thorn, hawthorn, and many other 
leaves, and even with those of the bird-cherry; but 
they would touch nothing except the seedling plum, 
refusing the grafted varieties^. 



Encampment of the caterpillar of the small ermine (Yponomeuta 
padclla) on the Siberian crab. 

A circumstance not a little remarkable in so very 
nice a feeder is, that in some cases the mother moth 
will deposit her eggs upon trees not of indigenous 
growth, and not even of the same genus with her 


 

Rfiual favourites. Thus, in 1825, the cherry-apple, 
or Siberian crab (Pyrw.? y)r7^7z?yo/7*«, Willdenow), 
so commonly ^rown in the suburbs of London, 
swarmed with them. On a single tree at Islington, 
we counted above twenty nests, each of which would 
contain from fifty to a hundred caterpillars ; and 
though these do not grow thicker than a crow-quill, 
so many of them scarcely left a leaf undevoured, and, 
of course, the fruit, which shewed abundantly in 
spring, never came to maturity. The summer fol- 
lowing they were still more abundant on the haw- 
thorn hedges, particularly near the Thames, by Bat- 
tersea and Richmond. Since tlien we have only seen 
them sparingly ; and last summer we could only find 
the single nest upon which we tried the preceding 
experiment*. This present spring (1830) they have 
again appeared in millions on the hedges. 

R(^aumur says that in some years they were ex- 
ceedingly destructive to his a]>ple-trees, though they 
did not touch his pears, plums, or apricots f, which 
agrees precisely with our own remarks. We are well 
aware that there are several species of the small er- 
mines, all similar in manners, such as the one which 
feeds on the spindle-tree, {Euonymiis), and pro- 
duces the prettiest moth of the genus {Yponomeuta 
Euonymella) ; hut our preceding remarks all apply 
to one species. 

In 1829 we remarked a very extraordinary num- 
ber of webs of some similar caterpillar, of which we 
did not ascertain the species, on the willows in Hol- 
land and the Netherlands, from Amsterdam to 
Ostend. In some districts, particularly near Bruges 
and Rotterdam, the leaves were literally stripped 
from whole rows of trees ; while other rows, at no 
considerable distance, were entirely tree from their 
ravages. A foreign naturalist, quoted by Harris in 
* J. R. t Reaumur, Mem. ii. 198. 




his Aurelian, says, that the caterpillar of the Camber- 
well beauty {Vanessa Antiopa), which feeds grega- 
riously on the willow, sometimes defoliates the trees 
of a whole district in the Low Countries ; but the 
ravages observed by us were evidently made by the 
caterpillars of some small moth*. 

None of the preceding details, however, appear so 
striking as what is recorded of the brown-tail moth 
(Porthesia avriflva)^ by Mr. W. Curtis f, whose 
multitudinous colonies spread great alarm over the 
country in the summer of 1782. This alarm was much 
increased by the exaggeration and ignorant details 
which found their way into the newspapers. The ac- 
tual numbers of these caterpillars must have been im- 
mense, since Curtis says, “ in many of the parishes 
near London subscriptions have been opened, and 
the poor people employed to cut off the webs| at one 
shilling per bushel, which have been burnt under the 
inspection of the churcliwardens, overseers, or beadle 
of the parish : at the first onset of this business four- 
score bushels, as I was most credibly informed, were 
collected in one day in the parish of Clapham.” 

It is not, therefore, very much to be wondered at, 
that the ignorant, who are so j>rone to become the 
victim of groundless fears, should have taken serious 
alarm on having so unusual a phenomenon forced 
upon their attention. Some alarmists accordingly 
asserted that the caterpillars “ were the usual presage 
of the plague ; ” and others that they not only pre- 
saged it, but woidd actually cause it, for “ their 
numbers were great enough to render the air pesti- 
lential,’^ while, to add to the mischief, “ they would 
destroy every kind of vegetation, and starve the cattle 
in the fields.” “ Almost every one,” adds Curtis, 

* J. R. 

f Curtis, Hist, of Brown-iail Moth, 4to. London, 1782. 

J See Insect Architecture, page 330, for a figure of the nest. 





“ i^orant of their history, was under the ^atest 
apprehensions concerning them ; so that even prayers 
were offered up in some churches to deliver the 
country from the apprehended approaching cala- 
mity/’ 

It seems to have been either the same catei*pillar, or 
one very nearly allied to it, probably that of the 
golden-tail {PorthesiaChrysorrh(ea)^vjh\ch. in 1731-2, 
produced a similar alarm in France. Reaumur, on 
going from Paris to Tours, in September 1730, Ibund 
every oak, great and small, literally swarming with 
them, and their leaves parched and brown as if some 
burning wind had passed over them ; for when newly 
hatched, like the young bufl-tips, they only eat one 
of the membranes of* the leaf, and of course the other 
withers away. These infant legions, under the shelter 
of their warm nests*, survived the winter in such 
numbers, that they threatened the destruction not 
only of the fruit-trees, but of the h>rests, — every tree, 
as Reaumur says, being over-run with them. The 
Parliament of Paris thought that ravages so widely 
extended loudly called for their interference, and 
they accordingly issued an edict, to compel the people 
to uncaterpillar {decheniller) the trees ; which Reau- 
mur ridiculed as impracticable, at least in the forests. 
About the middle of May, .liowever, ^ succession of 
cold rains produced so much mortality among the 
caterpillars, that the people were ha]>pily released 
from the edict ; for it soon became difficult to find a 
single individual of the species t- In the same way the 
cold rains, during the summer of 1 829, seem to have 
nearly annihilated the lackeys, which in the early part 
of the summer, swarmed on every hedge around 
London +. The ignorance displayed in France at the 
time in question, was not inferior to that recorded by 

* See Insect Architecture, p.331, for a figure. 

t Reaumur, ii.p. 137. - J Insect Architecture, p. 329. 




Curtis; for the French journalists ffravely asserted 
that part of the caterpillars were produced by spiders ; 
and that these spiders, and not the caterpillars, con- 
structed the webs of the slime of snails, which they 
were said to have been seen collecting for the pur- 
pose ! “ Verily,^’ exclaims Reaumur, “ there is 

more ignorance in our age than one might believe.” 

It is justly remarked by Curtis, that the caterpillar of 
the brown-tail moth is not so limited a feeder as some, 
nor so indiscriminate as others ; but that it always 
confines itself to trees or shrubs, and is never found 
on herbaceous plants, whose low growth would seldom 
supply a suitable foundation for its web. Hence the 
absurdity of supposing it would attack the herbage 
of the field, and produce a famine among cattle. 
Curtis says, it is found on the “ hawthorn most plen- 
tifully, oak the same, elm very plentifully, most fruit- 
trees the same, black thorn plentifully, rose-trees the 
same, bramble the same, on the willow and poplar 
scarce. None have been noticed on the elder, walnut, 
ash, fir, or herbaceous plants. With respect to fruit- 
trees the injuries they sustain are most serious, as, in 
destroying the blossoms as yet in the bud, they also 
destroy the fruit in embryo ; the owners of orchards, 
therefore, have great reason to be alarmed.” 

The suddrti appearance of great numbers of these 
caterpillars in particular years, and their scarcity in 
others, is in some degree explained by a fact stated 
by Mr. Salisbury. “ A gentleman of Chelsea,” he 
says, “ has informed me that he once took a nest 
of moths and bred them; that some of the eggs 
came the first year, some the second, and others of 
the same nest did not hatch till the third season *.” 
We reared, during 1829, several nests both of 
the brown-tails and of the golden-tails, and a num- 
ber of the females deposited their eggs in our nurse- 
? Salisbury, Hints on Orchards, p. 53, 





caffes ; but, contrary to the experiment just quoted, 
all of these were hatched during the same autumn*. 
The diflerence of temperature and moisture in par- 
ticular seasons may produce this diversity. 

An alarm, similar to those we have recorded, was 
produced in France in 1735 by the green striped 
caterpillars of a moth very common in Britain, called 
by collectors, from a mark on its upper wings, the Y, or 
more properly the 7 moth (Plvsia Gamma^ Ochs.). 
Though ranked in some classifications amongst the 
nocturnal moths, it flies chiefly by day, and maybe seen 
in Battersea-fields, or other moist meadows, flitting 
from herb to herb and flower to flower, in short and 
low flights; for it seldom soars higher than the tallest 
grass-stem, or the crimson flower-heads of the knap- 
weed, upon whose honey it sometimes regales, re- 
maining on the wing all the while it is sipping it. 
During the cold rainy summer of 1829 it was almost 
the only moth which appeared plentiful f. At least 
two broods seem to be produced during the season; 
which may account for its being found from May till 
the setting-in of the winter frosts. 

Notwithstanding it being so plentiful, however, 
we have not heard of its having ever been so destruc- 
tive here as in France, where, as usual, the most 
improbable causes were assigned for- its increase. 
“ In some places,” says Reaumur, “ they assured 
me they had seen an old soldier throw the spell ; and 
in other places an ugly and mischievous old woman 
had wrought all the evil J.” These supposed super- 
natural agents, however, must have been either very 
numerous or very active to fill, not only the gardens, 
but every field, with legions of those caterpillars, 
which devoured almost every green thing, and left 
only the stalksas monuments of their devastation. The 
alarm proceeded farther, for it began to be whispered 
? J. R. t R* t Reaumur, ii. 336. 


 


that they were poisonous ; and many were in conse- 
quence afraid to touch soups or salads. Reaumur 
thought it incumbent on him to refute this notion at 
some length; but we cannot accept his doctrine as 
very palatable, when he tells us that few dishes of soup 
or salad arc ever prepared without containing cater- 
pillars, and yet all the world are not poisoned there- 
by, any more than by eating oysters or viper broth. 
*He endeavoured also to account by calculation for 
their excess, ii'om the data of the female moth lay- 
ing about four hundred eggs. Now, if there were 
only twenty caterpillars distributed in a garden, and 
all lived through the winter, and became moths in 
the succeeding May, the eggs laid by these, if all 
fertile, would produce 800,000, a number much more 
than sufficient to efiect great destruction^. Did 
*ot Providence, therefore, put causes in operation to 



Transformations of the y moth (^Plusia Gamrud). a, the egg, 
rreatly magnified, on a morsel of leaf. 6, the egg on a leaf, na^ 
Ural size, c, the larva, d, the pupa, e, the moth. 


? R6aumur^ ii. 337. 


 

keep them in due bounds, the caterpillars of this 
moth alone, leaving out of consideration the 2000 
other British species, would soon destroy more than 
half of our vegetation. 

The caterpillar just mentioned, amongst other pot- 
herbs attacks coleworts and cabbage ; and may 
sometimes be found there along with another, not 
uncommon, but seldom very destructive, called by col- 
lectors the burnished brass (Plvsia chrysitis), which 
differs little from the caterpillar of the 7 moth, except 
in being of a brighter green. Another, called the old 
gentlewoman {Mamestra brassic<B, Treitsche), is so 
destructive to cabbages in Germany, that the gar- 
deners gather whole baskets full and bury them ; 
but as ROsel remarks, they might as well endeavour 
to kill a crab by covering it with sea-water, for it 
is natural to them to burrow under ground when 
they change into chrysalides We have seen this 
caterpillar, as well as that of the brown-eye {Mames- 
ira oleraced), do considerable damage in Wiltshire, 
but nothing to what is reported of it in Germany. 

The leaves of cabbages, cauliflower, brocoli, cole- 
worts, and turnips, are frequently devoured to a 
more considerable extent by the sub- gregarious cater- 
pillars of the white butterflies (Po/itia brassicee, P. 
7iapi, &c.) From the great multiplicity of the but- 
terflies, indeed, and from there being two broods in 
the year, we have reason to Monder that their 
ravages are not more extensive. But we have re- 
marked, that they seem more partial to wild than 
cultivated plants ; for we have seen, near Islington, 
the oleraceous weeds, such as rape {Brassica vopvs)^ 
over-run with them in the very same fields with cul- 
tivated cabbages, which were not touched t ; so that 
the caterpillars are not always so injurious as we 
might at first suppose, since in this case they tend to 
* Rbsel, liiseckten, i. iv, 170, f J K. 




keep down the weeds, while the birds and the 
ichneumon flies keep them in check by making prey 
of them. 

The gregarious caterpillars of an allied species, 
called the black-veined white butterfly (Pieri$ 
Crateegi^ Stephens), is in some seasons and districts 
no less destructive to orchards and hawthorn hedges 
than the preceding ones are to the kitchen -garden. 
Salisbury, who wrote at Chelsea in 1815, says it 
“ commits great destruction every spring, and not 
only to the apple-trees, but other kinds of fruits*/^ 
Mr. Stephens, writing in 1827, says, “ in June 1810, 
I saw it in plenty at Coombe Wood, and in the fol- 
lowing year I captured several at Muswell-hill, since 
which time I have not seen any at large t*’’ Mr. 
Haworth also says, “ it has not of late years been 
seen at Chelsea, where it formerly abounded.’’ We 
have never met with it at all. According to Salisbury 
the female butterfly lays her eggs near the extremity 
of an old rather than a young branch, and covers 
them with a coating of gluten, which is both imper- 
vious to moisture and impenetrable (this we doubt) 
to the bills of birds. “ In this state,” he adds, “ we 
have instances of their remaining without losing 
their vitality for several years, until a favourable oppor- 
tunity of their being brought into existence arrives*.” 
The caterpillars, which are at first black and hairy, 
live in common in a silken tent. They become sub- 
sequently striped with reddish brown, and disperse 
over the trees. This caterpillar and its butterfly 
are figured in a subsequent page. 

Our gooseberry and red-currant bushes are very 
frequently despoiled of their leaves, both by the 
speckled caterpillar of the magpie moth {Abraxas 
grossiilarlata), and by what Reaumur terms the 

* Hints on Orchards, p. 56. f Illustrations,!. Hauslellata, 27. 

J Hints on Orchards, p. 57. 






pseudo-caterpillars of one of the saw-flies (Nematus 
Ribesii, Stephens). The latter insect has a flat 
yellow body and four pellucid wings, the two outer 
ones marked with brown on the edge. In April it issues 
from the pupa, which has lain under ground from 
the preceding September. The female of the goose- 
berry saw-fly does not, like some of the family, cut a 
groove in the branch to deposit her eggs ; — “ of 
what use, then,” asks Reaumur, “ is her ovipositor 
saw*?” In order to satisfy himself on this point, he 
introduced a pair of the flies under a bell-glass along 
with a branch bent from a red-currant bush, that he 
might watch the process. The female immediately 
perambulated the leaves in search of a place suited to 
her purpose, and passing under a leaf began to lay, 



a a a, Saw-6y of the ffooseberry (Nemafu<i Pffccsii, Stkhhkvs). 
J, its effffs on the nerviireg of a leaf, d d, the caterpillars eating, 
c, one rolled up. /, one extended. 


? See Insect Architecture, chap.vii. fora description of-thir 
curious instrument. 





depositing six eggs within a quarter of an hour. 
Each time she placed herself as if she wished to cut 
into the leaf with her saw; but, upon taking out 
the leaf, the eggs appeared rather projecting than 
lodged in its substance. They adhered so firmly, 
however, that they could not be detached without 
crushing them. He could not discover any groove * ; 
but we think it likely that a minute cut is made in 
the exterior membrane of the leaf, the edges of which 
grasp and hold firm the part of the egg which is 
thrust into it by the insect. Be this as it may, the 
caterpillars are hatched in two or three weeks ; and 
they feed in company till after midsummer, frequently 
stripping both the leaves and fruit of an extensive 
plantation. The caterpillar has six legs and sixteen 
prolegs, and is of a green colour mixed with yellow, 
and covered with minute black dots raised like sha- 
green. In its last skin it loses the black dots and 
becomes smooth and yellowish white. The Caledo- 
nian Horticultural Society have published a number 
of plans for destroying these caterpillars. 

An allied species of saw-fly {Nematus CapretB, 
Stephens) frequently becomes extensively destruc- 
tive to several species of willow, sallow, and osier. 
It is so like that of the gooseberry and that of the 
willow {Nematus saucin') , which is not British, that it 
has been confounded with these by Pabricius, Stew- 
art, Gmelin, and other authors. In the summer of 
1828, we observed a considerable group of young 
standards of the golden osier {Salix vitellina)^ in a 
nursery at Lewisham, rendered quite leafless by these 
caterpillars ; which, when feeding, throw themselves 
into singular postures by holding only with their 
fore feet. The fly appears in spring, and places its 
eggs in a round patch on the back of the leaf, and 
not along the nervures, like the gooseberry saw fly. 

Reaumur^ V, 125. 





During the three last summers, we also remarked 
that the alders (^Alnus glutinosd) along the banks of 
the Ravensbourne, in Kent, were extensively stripped 
of their leaves by a saw-fly caterpillar, very like the 
preceding, but of a larger size*. It appears to be 
the same as one figured by RtSaumurt {Selandria 
Alni? Stephens). 



a, Nematus caprcepy on the otiieF ; J>, Selandria alni ? on the alder. 

Another slimy caterpillar of a saw-fly, allied to 
that of the cherry {Tenthredo Cerasi), is called the 
slug worm in North America, where it has increased 

* J. R. f Reaumur; vol. v.; pi. 11; fig. 1, 2* 

u 


 


SO numerously as to threaten the entire destruction of 
fruit trees, including the cherry, plum, pear, and 
quince. Where they are numerous, the air becomes 
loaded with a disagreeable and sickly effluvium. The 
history of this orchard pest has been admirably 
written by Professor Peck*. 

When a turnip crop has been fortunate enough to 
escape the ravages committed on it in the seed leaf 
by a small jumping beetle (Haltica nemorum, IiiLi- 
ger), and by a root weevil (Nedyus contr actus ^ 
Stephens), a no less formidable depredator some- 
times appears in a caterpillar belonging to the saw- 
fly family (Tenthredividfr), and apparently of the 
genus Athalia. An instance is recorded hj Mar- 
shall, in the Philosophical Transactions, of many 
thousand acres having had to be ploughed up on 
account of the devastations caused by these insects. 
It is, he informs us, the general opinion in Norfolk, 
that they come from over-sea ; and a farmer averred 
that he saw them arrive in clouds so as to darken 
the air, while the fishermen reported that they had 
repeatedly witnessed flights of them pass over their 
heads when they were at a distance from land. On 
the beech and the cliffs, indeed, they lay in heaps, 
so that they might have been taken up with shovels ; 
while three miles inland they crowded together like 
a swarm of bees t. 

We have little doubt, however, that these details 
are put in an inverse order ; as frequently occurs in 
histories of the proceedings of insects by those but 
little acquainted with their habits. Insects of this 
family, indeed, seldom fly far, and could not at all 
events cross the sea, unless it might be a narrow bay 
or inlet ; and if they had, we ought to have heard of 
their departure as well as their arrival, since their 

* Nat. Hist, of the SlugWorio, Boston, 1799. 
t Phil. Trans, vol. Ixxiii. p. 31 7, 





extraordinary number could not have failed to at- 
tract public notice on other shores. The nature of 
these insects is to lie in the pupa state during the 
winter under ground ; and when, at its appointed 
time, the fly comes forth, it only lives to lay its eggs, 
usually dying within a few days or weeks. It must 
have been, therefore, after the laying their eggs on the 
turnips, and not before, that clouds of the flies were 
seen at sea and on the shore, though not arriving, 
but going away. They were, doubtless, impelled by 
that restless desire of change felt by all animals 
when death is approaching, and which in tropical 
countries is yearly exemplified in the destruction of 
locusts, for these always make for the sea, and 
perish there. But though they were thus got rid 
of in August, 1782, they left a progeny behind them 
in the black caterpillars which were hatched from 
their eggs. In the summer of 1783, accordingly, 
we are told by Mr. Marshall, that whole districts 
were ravaged by them, — the descendants, of course, 
in the second generation, of the saw-flies which pe- 
rished on the beach and at sea the preceding au- 
tumn. 

Some caterpillars, which either conceal them- 
selves under ground, or feed on roots and the wood 
of trees, do considerable injury, without apparent 
cause ; and often give occasion to the popular notions 
respecting mysterious blights. In this manner will 
the caterpillars of the ghost moth {Hepialus Humuli) 
gnaw the roots of the burdock, and, what is of more 
consequence, of the hop plant, tjU the shoots are 
weakened and the leaves droop in bright sunshine. 
We have repeatedly seen, in the gardens about Lee, 
a large branch of the red-currant bush, though pre- 
viously healthy and loaded with fruit, all of a sud- 
den droop and wither, giving good cause to sur- 
mise, except in the leaves not being brown or 




parched, that it had been struck with lightning. On 
cutting into such branches, however, the cause was 
uniformly found to be the ravages of the caterpillar 
of the currant hawk-moth {Mgeria tipuliformis^ 
Stephens), which abounds in the vicinity. But we 
have also remarked that it only occasionally produces 
this effect upon the trees ; for several bushes upon 
which we have found old pupa-cases projecting from 
the bark, remained healthy and uninjured*. Sir 
Joseph Banks showed Mr. Kirby a currant branch 
perforated by this caterpillar to the pith, and said the 
size of the fruit was in consequence diminished f. 
In Germany it is reported to destroy even large 
bushes of the red currant. There can be no doubt 
that the caterpillars of the goat moth frequently 
destroy willow, poplar, and oak trees, of considerable 
magnitude; but the mother moth seems to prefer 
laying her eggs upon those which have already 
begun to decay. A black poplar tree, not thicker 
than a man’s leg, and stripped on one side of more 
than a foot of the bark, was bored by above a dozen 
caterpillars of the clear underwing i^Mgeria asilu 
formis, Stephens), without seeming to have its 
growth at all retarded J. 

It does not appear that a minute moth, called by 
Leeuwenhoeck, who writes its history, the wolf, and 
by Haworth the mottled- woollen (Pk. Tinea granella, 
Linnaeus), is so abundant in Britain as to do much 
damage to the grain stored in granaries, upon which 
it feeds. But it seems to have created considerable 
alarm on the Continent. It has been found near 
London, and may increase with us. The cater- 
pillar, which is smooth and white, ties together with 
silk several grains of wheat, barley, rye, or oats, weav^ 

t Kirby and Spence, vol. i. p. 197. 

X See Ins. Arcbit., p. 192, 


J. R. 


 

in^ a ^llery between them, from which it projects its 
head while feedings ; the grains, as Reaumur remarks, 
being prevented from rolling or slipping by the silk 
which unites them. He justly ridicules the absurd 
notion of its filing off the outer skin of the wheat by 
rubbing upon it with its body, the latter being the 
softer of the two ; and he disproved, by experiment, 
Leeuwenhoeck’s assertion that it will also feed on 
woollen cloth. It is from the end of May till the 
beginning of July that the moths, which are of a 
silvery grey, spotted with brown, appear and lay their 
eggs in granaries. 

The caterpillar of another still more singular 
grain moth {Tinea Horded Kirby) proves some- 
times very destructive to granaries. The mother 
moth, in May or June, lays about twenty or more 
eggs on a grain of barley or wheat ; and when the 
caterpillars are hatched they disperse, each selecting 
a single grain. M. Reaumur imagines that san- 
guinary wars must sometimes arise, in cases of pre- 
occupancy, a single grain of barley being a rich 



Transformatioas of the'^fprain moths, a, grain of barley includ- 
ing a caterpillar ; 6, c, the grain cut across, seen to be Tiollow ed 
out, and divided by a partition of silk; d, the moth (iftaea 
Hordei) ; e, j^ains of wheat tied together by the caterpillar,/ ; 
//, the moth ^uplocamvM fftaneila). 






heritage for one of these tiny insects ; but he con- 
fesses he never saw such contests*. When the 
caterpillar has eaten its way into the interior of the 
grain, it feeds on the farina, taking care not to gnaw 
the skin nor even to throw out its excrements, so that 
except the little hole, scarcely discernible, the grain 
appears quite sound. When it has eaten all the 
farina, it spins itself a case of silk within the now 
hollow grain, and changes to a pupa in November f. 

Two other caterpillars of a different family, the 
honeycomb moth {Galleria cereana^ Fabr.), and the 
honey moth {G. alvearia, Fabr.), the first having 
square, and the second rounded wings J, do very 
considerable damage to the hives of bees. The 
moths of both, according to Reaumur, appear about 
the end of June or beginning of July; and when in 
danger they run rather than fly, gliding with such 
celerity that they can easily elude the vigilance of 
the bees, which, indeed, if we may trust Swam- 
merdam, never attack them, nor prevent their en- 
trance into the hives, unless they chance to brush 
against them in their passage. But Reaumur ac- 
tually saw the bees pursue one, though without 
success. It becomes easy for a moth, at all events, 
to lay eggs among the combs ; or as Keys says, at 
the entrance of the hive: this writer adds, “she 
spins a close and strong web to defend the young § 
which is impossible, as no insect, subsequent to its 
larva state, can spin. 

The caterpillar of the first species, “ wherever it 
passes,’’ says Swammerdam, “ gnaws round holes 
through the waxen cells, one caterpillar sometimes 
breaking open and destroying fifty or sixty cells. 

See Insect Architecture, p. 231. 
f Reaumur, Mem., vol. ii. p. 486, &c. 

1 Stephens’s Catalogue, vol. ii. p. 213. 

§ Keys, Treatise on Pees, p. 178, edit. 1814. 





Wherever it penetrates it always fabricates a hollow 
tubulated web, in which, as a rabbit in its burrow, 
it can very swiftly pass from one part to another, 
and speedily run back again. It fills the whole 
comb with such webs, and turns itself in them 
every way into various bendings and windings ; so 
that the bees are not only perplexed and disturbed in 
their work, but they frequently entangle themselves 
by the claws and hairs of their legs in those webs, 
and the whole hive is destroyed.” 

The other species he accuses of being not only 
destructive to the wax, but to the bees themselves. 
“I saw one of these little caterpillars,” he says, 
“ whilst it was still small, and was breaking the cells 
in which the pupa of the bees lie, and eating the wax 






there, cover up these pupse with its excrements, so 
that they could scarcely be known.” He adds with 
great naivete, “ I have learned these matters much 
against my inclination, and have been full of wrath 
against the insect for thus defiling and killing some 
bee pupae which I had designed to observe in their 
changes*.’* 

M. Bazin, a friend of Reaumur’s, discovered the 
caterpillar of a moth of this order feeding on choco- 
late, of which it seemed very choice, always pre- 
ferring that which had the finest flavour. The moth 
is sometimes produced in September, and some- 
times in the beginning of the following summer. 
It is probable that, like the cheese-fly, it might, in 
default of chocolate, select some other aliment f. 

? Swammerdam, vol. i, p. 225. f Reaumur, vol, iii, p, 277 






Voracity of Caterpillars, Grabs, and Maggots continued. 

Grubs. 

We frequently hear farmers and gardeners com- 
plaining that their produce is destroyed by “ the 
grub ; ’’ they might with equal propriety accuse 
“ /Ae bird'’ when their ripe seeds are devoured 
by sparrows, chaffinches, linnets, and other seed- 
eaters. Instead of one sort of grub, as the expression 
seems to indicate, we are far under the mark in 
reckoning a thousand species indigenous to Britain, 
each peculiar in its food and its manners. We shall, 
however, adhere as nearly as possible to the terms in 
common use; but as the larvic of the crane-flies 
(Tipulidai, Leach), being without legs, cannot be 
accurately ranked with the legged grubs of beetles, 
we shall consider them as maggots, though they are 
usually termed grubs by the farmers. 

The most destructive, perhaps, of the creatures 
usually called grubs, arc the larv® of the may-bug 
or cockchafer (Melolontfia vulgaris), but too well 
known, particularly in the southern and midland 
districts of England, as well as in Ireland, where 
the grub is called the Connaught worm*; but fortu- 
nately not abundant in the north. We only once 
met with the cockchafer in Scotland, at Sorn, in Ayr- 
shire t- Even in the perfect state, this insect is not 
a little destructive to the leaves of both forest and 
fruit trees. In 18*23, we remember to have observed 
almost all the trees about Dulwich and Camberwell 
? Bingley, Anim. Biog. vol.iii, p. 230. t J* Ik 






defoliated by them ; and Salisbury says, the leaves 
of the oaks in Richmond Park were so eaten by 
them, that scarcely an entire leaf was left. But it is 
in their previous larva state that they are most de- 
structive, as we shall see by tracing their history. 

The mother cockchafer, when about to lay her eggs, 
digs into the earth of a meadow or corn-field to the 
depth of a span, and deposits them in a cluster at 
the bottom of the excavation. Rosel, in order to 
watch their proceedings, put some females into 
glasses half-filled with earth, covered with a tuft of 
grass, and a piece of thin muslin. In a fortnight, 
he found some hundreds of eggs deposited, of an 
oval shape and a pale yellow colour. Placing the 
glass in a cellar, the eggs were hatched towards 
autumn, and the grubs increased remarkably in size. 
In the following May they fed so voraciously that 
they required a fresh turf every second day; and 
even this proving too scanty provender, he sowed in 
several garden pots a crop of peas, lentils, and salad, 
and when the plants came up, he put a pair of grubs 
in each pot ; and in this manner he fed them through 
the second and third years. During this period, 
they cast their skins three or four times, going for 
this purpose deeper into the earth, and burrowing 
out a hole where they might effect their change un- 
disturbed ; and they do the same in winter, during 
which they become torpid and do not eat. 

When the grub changes into a pupa, in the third 
autumn after it is hatched, it digs a similar burrow 
about a yard deep ; and when kept in a pot, and pre- 
vented from going deep enough, it shows great un- 
easiness and often dies. The perfect beetle comes 
forth from the pupa in January or February ; but it is 
then as soft as it was whilst still a grub, and does 
not acquire its hardness and colour for ten or twelve 
days, nor does it venture above ground before May, 





on the fourth year from the time of its hatching. At 
this time, the beetles may be observed issuing from 
their holes in the evening, and dashing themselves 
about in the air as if blind. 



TTansfomialions of the cockchafer {Melolontha vtdgaris), a, 
newly hatched larvae, b. larva, one year old. c, the i>aine larva 
at the second year of RTOWtb. d, the same three years old. c, 
section of a hank of earth, containing: the chrysalis of the fourth 
year, the chafer first emerging: from the earth, g, the perfect 
chafer in a sitting posture, h, the same flying. 

During the three summers then of their existence 
in the grub state, these insects do immense injuiyr, 
burrowing between the turf and the soil, and devour- 
ing the roots of grass and other plants ; so that the 




turf may easily be rolled off, as if cut by a turfing 
spade^ while the soil underneath for an inch or more 
is turned into soft mould like the bed of a garden. 
Mr. Anderson, of Norwich, mentions having seen 
a whole field of fine flourishing grass so under- 
mined by these grubs, that in a few weeks it became 
as dry, brittle, and withered’ as hay *. Bingley also 
tells us that “ about sixty years ago, a farm near 
Norwich was so infested with cockchafers, that the 
farmer and his servants affirmed they gathered eighty 
bushels of them ; and the grubs had done so much 
injury, that the court of the city, in compassion to 
the poor fellow’s misfortune, allowed him twenty- 
five poundsf.” In the year 1785, a farmer, near 
Blois, in France, employed a number of children and 
poor persons to destroy the cockchafers at the rate 
of two liards a hundred, and in a few days they col- 
lected fourteen thousand 

“ I remember,” says Salisbury, “ seeing, in a nur- 
sery near Bagshot, several acres of young forest 
trees, particularly larch, the roots of which were com- 
pletely destroyed by it, so much so, that not a single 
tree was left alive §.” We are doubtful, however, 
whether this was the grub of the cockchafer, and 
think it more likely to have been that of the green 
rose beetle {Cetonia auratd), which feeds on the roots 
of trees. 

The grub of an allied genus, the midsummer 
ch&feT (Zantheumia Solstitialis, Leach), has for the 
last two years been abundant on Lewisham Hill, 
Blackheath, doing considerable injury to herbage 
and garden plants. > This beetle may be known from 
being smaller and paler than the cockchafer, and 
from its not appearing before midsummer. The grub 
is very similar. 

? Philosopb. Trans, xliv. 679. f Anim. Biog. iii. 233. 

t Anderson’s Beer, in Agricult, iii, 420. $ HiuU^ 74. 






The best way of preventing the ravages of these 
insects would be to employ children to collect the 
perfect insects when they first appear, before they lay 
their eggs ; but when a held is once overrun with 
the larva, nothing can be done with it, except paring 
and burning the surface, or ploughing it up, and 
turning in a hock of ducks or other poultry, or a 
drove of pigs, which are said to eat these grubs, 
and to fatten on the fare. Drenching the field with 
stable urine* by means of reservoir carts, like those 
used for watering roads, would, if sufficiently done, 
both kill the grubs, and beneficially manure the land. 

The grub called the wire worm, though not very 
appropriately, is the larva of one of the spring or 
click beetles (Hemirhipus lineatus^ and H, obscurus^ 
Latreille), known by their long flattish body, and 
their power of springing with a clicking sound out 
of the hand when caught. In some works on agri- 
culture, the larva of a common crane fly (Tipula 
oUracea or T. crocatd) is called the wire worm^ — we 
suppose by mistake f. The grubs of the click bee- 
tles, just alluded to, are said by Bierscander | and 
by Mr. Paul of Starston, Norfolk §, who watched 
their transformations, to continue five years before 
producing the perfect insect. During this time the 
grub feeds chiefly on the roots of wheat, rye, oats, 
barley, and grass ; but seems also sometimes to attack 
the larger roots of potatoes, carrots, and salads. Its 
ravages are often so extensive as to cut oflT entire 
crops of grain. It appears to be most partial to land 
newly broken up ; and has not been found so abun- 
dant in meadows and pastures, unless in fields recently 
laid down with grass. “ The wire worm,” says 
Spence, “ is particularly destructive for a few years 

* See the Harleian Dairy System, p. 222. 
f See Loudon’s Encycl. of Agricult. 6921. 

X Act, Holm, 1779, p.284« ^ Kirby and Spence, i, 182, 





in gardens recently converted from pasture ground. 
In the botanic garden at Hull, thus circumstanced, a 
great proportion of the annuals sown in 1813 were 
destroyed by it. A very simple and effectual remedy, 
in such cases, was mentioned to me by Sir Joseph 
Banks. He recommended that slices of potatoes 
stuck upon skewers, should be buried near the seeds 
sown, examined every day, and the wire- worms, 
which collect upon them in great numbers, de- 
stroyed 

The wire worm is long, slender, and very tough 
and hard ; but otherwise it has no resemblance to 
wire, being whitish in colour, of a flattish form, and 
jointed or ringed. Its breathing spiracles, two in 
number, are on the back of its last ring. 




a. Wire worm ; 6, Click beetle. 


An insect of this family (Elater noctilucus, Linn.) 
is exceedingly destructive, in the West Indies, to the 
sugar-cane ; the grub, according to Humboldt and 
Bonpland, feeding on its roots and killing the 
plants t* 

Instances are by no means rare, however, of in- 
sects being accused of depredations of which they are 
not guilty, from the mere circumstance of their being 


* Intr. i. 182-3. f Geog, des Plantes, 136. 






found in abundance where ravages have been com- 
mitted by others that have naturally disappeared. It 
is not improbable that this was the case with a grub 
of some beetle (Staphylinidee?)^ mentioned by 
Mr. Walford, and mistaken by him for the wire 
worm. Out of fifty acres of wheat sown in 1802, 
ten had been destroyed in October, by this grub 
eating into the centre of the young stem an inch 
below the surface and killing the plant^. It seems 
still more probable that the grub of a native beetle 
{Zabrus gibbus, Stephens), which has been found 
in considerable numbers near Worthing, Brighton, 
Hastings, and Cambridge, has been unjustly blamed 
as a destroyer of corn ; though we have the respect- 
able authority of Germar, who, with other members 
of the society of Natural History of Halle, ima- 
gined he had ascertained the fact. In the spring of 
1813, about two hundred and thirty acres of young 
wheat are said to have been destroyed by it ; and it 
is farther supposed to be the same insect which 
caused great destruction in Italy in 1776. This grub 
is said to take probably three years in coming to a 
beetle, in which state it is alleged to clamber up the 
stems at night, to get at the corn. It is important 
to remark, that along with these grubs were found 





those of a chafer (Mdolontha rujicomis^ Fabr.), ia 
the proportion of about a fourth 

To this account, Mr. Stephens appends the shrewd 
questions — “ May not these herbivorous larvae [of the 
chafer] have been the principal cause of mischief to 
the wheat, while those of the Zabrus rather contri- 
buted to lessen their numbers, than to destroy the 
corn ? And is it not probable that the perfect insects 
ascend the corn for the purj>ose of devouring the 
insect parasites thereon? This is a subject,” he 
justly adds, “that requires investigation, as it is 
highly important, for the interests of the agricul- 
turist in those districts where the insect abounds, 
that the question should be thoroughly set at rest ; 
because, should the Zabri depart from the habits of 
the group to which they belong, and become herbi- 
vorous instead of carnivorous, their destruction would 
be desirable ; while, on the contrary, if they destroy 
the devourers of our produce their preservation 
should be attempted f.” 

We have little doubt that Mr. Stephens is right, 
and Germar wrong ; but it would be improper to 
decide the question by analogy unsupported by direct 
experiment. One thing is certain, that both this 
iamily {Harpalidce, MacLeay) and the whole sec- 
tion {Adephaga, Clairville) are not herbivorous, 
but carnivorous Similar errors will come under 
our notice, as we proceed, not more defensible 
than that of the old soldier causing caterpillars in 
France. 

Even when agricultural produce escapes being 
devoured at the root, or the young shoots eaten up, 
the seeds are often made the prey of the grubs of 

* Germar, Mag. der EntomoL, i. 1-10 ; and Kirby and Spence, 
i. 169. 

f Stephens, Illustrations, i. Mandib. pp. 4 and 140. 

I See an Illustration in Insect Architect., p. 207-8. 



beetles and weevils. Amon^ the first, the gnawing 
beetles {Bruchidce, Leach) are very destructive. 
In North America, the pea beetle (Bruchw Pisi, 
Linn.) commits such extensive depredations on 
pulse, that in some districts the sowing of peas has 
been abandoned as useless. Kalm, the Swedish 
traveller, having witnessed these depredations in 
America, became quite alarmed when he discovered 
the insect among some peas he had brought to 
Sweden, lest he should be the means of introducing 
so formidable a pest*. His fears seem to us to have 
been in a great measure groundless ; for, probably, 
the insect may be indigenous to Sweden, as it is to 
Britain, though from circumstances of climate, and 
other causes, it is seldom produced in such numbers 
with us as to occasion extensive damage. It may have 
been the same or an allied species of grub mentioned 
by Amoroux as having spread an alarm in France in 
1780, when the old fancy of its being poisonous 
induced the ])ublic authorities to prohibit peas from 
being sold in the marketsf. The insect most 
destructive to our peas is the pulse beetle {Bruchus 
^ranarius, Linn.), which sometimes lays an egg on 
every pea in a pod, which the grub, when hatched, 
destroys. In the same way, clover seed is often attacked 
by two or more species of small weevil {Apion^ 
Herbst), known by the yellow colour of their 
thighs or their feet ; and when the farmer expects to 
reap considerable profit, he finds nothing but empty 
husks. 

We have mentioned the ravages committed in 
granaries by the caterpillars of small moths; but 
these are rivalled in the work of destruction by 
several species of grubs. One of these grubs is 

? Kalm’s Travels, vol. i, p. 173. 

t Amoroux, Insectes Venimcux, 288, Kirby and Spence, 
i. 177. 





called by the French cadelle (Trogosita mauritanica, 
Olivier), and is reported to have done more damage 
to housed grain than any other insect*. The pest 
of the granaries, which is but too well known in this 
country, is the grain weevil (Calandra granaria^ 
Clairville), the same, probably, which is mentioned 
by Virgil, 

— — PopuJatque ingentem farris acervum 
Curculio. Georg, i. 87 . 

The high stacks of corn 

Are wasted by the weevil, Trapp, 

Kirby and Spence calculate that a single pair of 
weevils may produce in one season 6000 descendants ; 
and they were told by an extensive brewer that he 
had collected and destroyed them by bushels t,— 
meaning, no doubt, insects and damaged grain 
together. 



Com weevil {Calandra granaria), magnified. 


Another beetle gnib, popularly called the meal 
worm, the larva of Tenehrio molitor^ Linn., which 
lives in that state two years, does no little damage to 
flour, as well as to bread, cakes, biscuit, and similar 
articles. Accounts are also given of the ravages com- 
mitted by the grubs of other beetles, of several species 
apparently not well ascertained, upon different sorts of 
provisions, such as bacon, ham, dried tongues, ship- 
biscuit, &c. Sparrman tells us, that he has wit- 
. essed the ground peas on ship-board so infested 
? Olivier, ii. 19. i. 173. 





with these grabs, that they were seen in every 
spoonful of the soup. In the case of soup, or of other 
food which has been exposed to heat, the only 
inconvenience is the disgust which must ensue; 
but, unfortunately, there may sometimes occur cir- 
cumstances of a more serious nature, — from either 
the eggs or the insects themselves being incautiously 
swallowed alive. We do not wish, however, to 
create, so much as to allay, the fears entertained by 
those who are unacquainted with the habits of 
insects ; and nothing we are persuaded will do this 
more effectually than a statement of facts well 
ascertained. “ Several people,” says the Abb^ de la 
Pluche, “ never eat fruit because they believe that 
spiders and other insects scatter their eggs upon it 
at random* but even if this were so, as it is not, 
it would be impossible for the young, should they be 
hatched in the stomach, to live there for an instant. 
The possible cases in which this may occur we shall 
now briefly notice ; they are fortunately very rare. 

The meal worm, and some of the grubs which 
feed on grain and other provisions, are recorded to 
have been swallowed, and to have given rise to 
disorders in the stomach and bowels ; but in all such 
cases it is plain, that if the insects did survive 
the increased temperature of the stomach, they 
could only live on the food swallowed from time to 
time, for, not being carnivorous, they would not attack 



Meal worm, and the beetle produced from it. 


* Spectacle de la Nature^ i. 65. 






the stomach itself. The same remark will apply no 
less forcibly to the herbivorous larvae, which might 
chance to be swallowed in salad, &c. The cater^ 
pillar of the tabby moth {Aglossa pinguincdU^ 
Latreille), which feeds on butter, the leather on 
book-boards, &c., is said, on the authority of Lin- 
naeus, to get sometimes into the stomach, and to 
produce considerable ‘disorder*; but this insect is 
very common in houses t, and, from the rarity of 
such accidents, we are led to doubt the evidence 
usually brought forward. In this case we are 
the more induced to question the authority of Lin- 
naeus, from his having made an evident mistake in a 
similar case respecting intestinal worms. 





Transformations of the tabby moth {Aglossapinguinalis). a, the 
caterpillar feeding on butter ; 6, c, d, feeding on leather under 
galleries} c, the moth with the down rubbed off; /, the same 
perfect. 

Linnsus affirms, that in the presence of seven of 
his companions he discovered, near Reuterholm, in 
Dalecarha, a tape worm in acidulous ochre (jOchram 
addularem)^ at which he marvelled the more since 

? Linnseus, quoted by Kirby and Spence, i. 136. 
t Latreille^ Hist, uv. 229. 





acidulous water of this kind had been drank with 
the design of expelling these worms This 
account, however, proves too little ; for, as Bonnet, 
Rt^aumur, Pallas, and other eminent naturalists 
remark, if such were the fact, we should find in- 
testinal worms (so very numerous in most animals) 
swarming in such places, and from their size 
(Boerhaave saw one thirty ells long) they could 
not escape observation ; whereas this was at that 
time the only instance recorded of one found 
out of the body. We are of opinion that Lin- 
neeus must have been deceived by similarity of 
form. A subsequent instance is recorded by Dr. 
Barry, of Cork, who imagined he had found the 
origin of the common small thread worm (fixyuru 
vermicidaris, Bremsek) in the water of a well — the 
aquatic only differing from the intestinal worms 
in colour. But were all descriptions as loose as this 
the grossest mistakes must ensue; for it is quite 
clear that Dr. Barry’s aquatic worms were a very 
common species {Nais)^ and though similar in 
external form, altogether different in internal 
structure from the OxyuridtB of the intestines. 
Were the latter, indeed, introduced into the body 
from water, they would not only be found in this 
particular well, two miles from Cork, but would 
swarm in all the waters in the empire ; since there 
are few individuals who are not affected with these 
worms at some period of their lives. According to 
our experiments, the ndis ceases to exist in a tem- 
perature considerably less than that of the human 
body; besides, as it lives on minute fresh-water 
molluscae, it could find no food in the intestinest- 
The celebrated Dr. J. P. Frank is no less mistaken 
in referring us for the origin of intestinal worms to 
“minute insects flying in the airj ;” for, if so, the 

* Linnaeus, quoted by Bonnet, QSuvres, iii. 137. f J. R, 
X Frank. De Curand. Homin. Morb. lib. vi. 





worms would naturally produce similar insects to 
their parents ; whereas tViey are either oviparous, as 
Goetze affirms, or, as Bremser thinks, ovo-viparous * 
both agreeing that they are not transformed into 
flying insects. Reaumur made the more plausible 
conjecture, that they might be introduced by eating 
tench and other fish, in which they are known to 
abound t ; but, independently of their being destroyed 
by heat in cooking, this has been subsequently dis- 
proved by experiment ; for M. Deslonchamps says, 
that “ when animals are fed for some time on in- 
testinal worms (Entoozaria) alone, and then killed, 
they are not found infested with these worms J.’* 
Valisnieri and Hartsocker suppose, without a shadow 
of proof, that worms are transmitted from parents 
to children like other hereditary disorders ; while 
the late M. Lamarck refers their production to “ the 
march of nature in the production of all living 
beings § !” This indefinite doctrine is also held 
by Geoffroi St. Hilaire, Cuvier, Blumenbach, and 
other distinguished living naturalists ; but we think 
it more philosophical and more manly, in such 
obscure cases, at once to confess our ignorance of the 
ways of nature, and to wait for further observation, 
than to frame idle theories, supported only by vague 
analogies and doubtful facts. 

It may not be uninteresting to mention, however, 
that upwards of 1200 species of intestinal worms 
have been discovered: and probably there may be 
twice as many more of whose existence nothing is 
yet known. Sixteen of these species have been 
found in the human body ; the rest are peculiar to 
other animals ||. Some of the more singular species 

* Bremser, Uber Lebende Wiirmer in leb. Mcnsch. 
f Letter to Bonnet, CBuvres, vol. iii. p.344. 

J Diet. Ciassique, vol. viii. p.589. 

$ Anim. sans Vertebres, vol,i. p. 15. 

II Diet. Ciassique, vol. viii. p.593. 





are here represented, from the splendid work of 
Bremser. 



Intestinal worms. 


That insects are, in some rare cases, intro- 
duced into the human stomach, has been more than 
once proved; though the greater number of the 
accounts of such facts in medical books are too 
inaccurate to be trusted*. But one extraordinary 
case has been completely authenticated, both by me- 
dical men and competent naturalists ; and is pub- 
lished in the Dublin Transactions, by Dr. Pickells 
of Corkt. Mary Riordan, aged 28, had been much 
affected by the death of her mother, and at one of 
her many visits to the grave seems to have partially 
lost her senses, having been found lying there on 
the morning of a winters day, and having been ex- 
posed to heavy rain during the night. When she 
was about fifteen, two popular Catholic priests had 
died, and she was told by some old women that if she 

* See Good’s Nosologia, Helminthia Alvij and Study of Mcd« 
vol. i. p. 336. 

+ Trans, of Assoc. Phys, in Ireland, iv. vii, and p. 177, 8vo. 

Dublin, 1824—1626, 


 


would drink daily, for a certain time, a quantity of 
water, mixed with clay taken from their graves, she 
would be for ever secure from- disease and sin. Fol- 
lowing this absurd and disgusting prescription, she 
took ^m time to time large quantities of the draught; 
some time afterwards, being affected with a burning 
pain in the stomach (Cardialgia)^ she began to eat 
large pieces of chalk, which she sometimes also mixed 
with water and drank. 

Now, whether in any or in all of these draughts she 
swallowed the eggs of insects, so be affirmed ; 
but for several years she continue ^ ^ throw up incre- 
dible numbers of grubs and magt ts, chiefly of the 
churchyard beetle (Blaps mortisaga^ Fabr.). “ Of 
the larvae of the beetle,” says Dr. Pickells, “ I am 
sure I considerably underrate, when I say that not 
less than 700 have been thrown up from the stomach 
at different times since the commencement of my 
attendance. A great proportion were destroyed by 
herself to avoid publicity; many, too, escaped im- 
mediately by running into holes in the floor. Up- 
wards of ninety were submitted to Dr. Thomson's* 
examination ; nearly all of which, including two of the 
specimens of the meal worm {Tenebrio molitor)^ I 
saw myself, thrown up at diflferent times. The aver- 
age size was about an inch and a half in length, and 
four lines and a half in girth. The larvae of the dip- 
terous insect, though voided only about seven or eight 
times, according to her account, came up almost 
literally in myriads. They were alive and moving.^' 
Altogether, Dr. Pickells saw nearly 2000 grubs of 
the beetle, and there were many which he did not 
see. Mr. Clear, an intelligent entomologist of Cork, 
kept some of them alive for more than twelve months. 
Mr. S. Cooper cannot understand whence the con- 
tinued supply of the grubs was provided, seeing that 
* The weU-kDOwa author of Zoological Researches/’ &c. 






Wv® do not propagate, and that only one pupa and 
one perfect insect were voided*; but the simple fact 
that most beetles live several years in the state of 
larvae sufficiently accounts for this. Their existing and 
thriving in the stomach, too, will appear less wonder- 
ful from the fact that it is exceedingly difficult to kill 
this insect ; for Mr. Henry Baker repeatedly plunged 
one into spirits of wine, so fiital to most insects, but it 
revived, even after being immersed a whole night, 
and afterwards lived three years t* 



^Churchyard beetle (^Biaps mortisaga), in the grub and perfect state, 
from the figures of Dr. Pickells. 


That there was no deception on the part of the 
woman, is proved by the fact that she was always 
: anxious to conceal the circumstance ; and that it was 
‘Only by accident that the medical gentlemen, Drs. 
Pickells, Herrick, and Thomson, discovered it. More- 
over, it does not appear that, though poor, she ever 
took advantage of it to extort money. It is interest- 

* Cooper's edition of Good’s Study of Medicine, i. 358. 
t Philotoph. Trans., No. 457. 

Y 





ing to leam that by means of turpentine, in large 
doses, she was at length cured. 

The grub of the nut weevil {Balaninus Nucuntj 
Germar) might, perhaps, by rare accident, get into 
the stomach, either of man or of the quadrupeds 
which feed oii nuts ; but as it is by no means so 
tenacious of life as the grub of the churchyard-beetle 
(Blaps mortisaga) above described, it is unlikely 
that it would produce any considerable disorder. 
The weevil in question, like the rest of its congeners, 
is furnished with an instrument for depositing its 
eggs considerably different from those of the ichneu- 
mons and saw-flies. For this purpose the weevil 
makes use of its long horny beak {Rostrum) to drill 
a hole in filberts and hazel-nuts, while in their young 
and soft state, about the beginning of August. The 
mother weevil may then be seen eagerly running 
over the bushes, and it would appear that she always 
rejects the nuts in which one of her neighbours may 
have previously laid an egg ; at least we never find 
two grubs in the same nut. The egg, which is thus 
thrust into the young nut, is of a brown colour, and 
is hatched in about a fortnight, the grub feeding on 
the interior of the shell as well as the soft pulp, till 
the one becomes too hard and the other too dry to be 
nutritive. It is remarkable that, during this period, 
he takes care not to injure the kernel, but permits it 
to ripen before he attacks it Had he done this pre- 
maturely, he would have ultimately been starved, as 
he has not the power of perforating another nut 
when the first is consumed. It is said also that he 
is very careful to preserve the original hole made by 
the mother, by gnawing around its inner edges, in 
order to facilitate his exit*, which he effects when the 
* Bingley, Auimal Biography, vol. iii,, p. 251. 





nut falls to the ground in September or October. 
The hole found in the nut appears much too small 
to have admitted of its passage ; but from being very 
soft it no doubt stretches itself out for the purpose, 
using its short claws as instruments of motion. 

Rosel, in order to observe the transformation of 
these nut grubs, put a number, of them, at the com- 
mencement of winter, into glasses half filled with 
earth, covered with green turf. All of them dug 
directly down into the earth, remained there all 
the winter, and did not change into pupae till the fol- 
lowing J une ; the perfect weevils appeared from the 
1st till about the 20th of August, but still kept under 
ground for the first week after their change. 



Nut and apple-tree beetles. A, a branch of the filbert-tree, 
a, egg hole in the nut ; 6, exit hole of the grub. B, the lanrse of 
the nut beetle. C, the same in the pupa state. D, female beetle. 

E, male beetle, c, the beetle that destroys the bloom-bud of the 
apple-tree ; a, the same in the larva state ; 6, the chrysalis of 
the same. 

“ During the autumn,” says Salisbury, “ we fre- 
quently observe a small red weevil busily employed 
in traversing the branches of apple-trees, on which 
it lays its eggs by perforating the bloom buds. In 
the spring, these hatch, and the grubs feed on the 




petals of the flowers, drawing up the whole flower 
into a cluster by means of their web. The bloom 
thus becomes destroyed, and the grub falls to the 
ground, where it lays itself up in the chrysalide state ; 
and in the autumn afterwards we find the weevU 
renewed, which again perforates the buds, and causes 
a similar destniction in the following spring. Mr. 
Knight, in his treatise on the apple, mentions a beetle 
which commits great destruction on the apple-trees in 
Herefordshire ; but I do not think it the same as the 
one I have described above, and which is very common 
in the gardens near London*.** Salisbury’s weevil 
is probably the Anthonomvs Pomorum oi Germar; 
and Knight’s, his Polydrvsm Mali, Another weevil 
(Rkynchites Bacchus, Herbst), one of our most 
splendid but not very common native insects, bores 
into the stone of the cherry, &c. while it is young 
and soft, and deposits an egg there, as the nut weevil 
does in the nut. 

Perhaps the most voracious grub on record is that 
of a large and beautiful beetle (Calosoma syco- 
phanta, Weber), which is rare in Britain. It is 
sometimes found in the nests of the processionary and 
other gregarious caterpillars, so gorged with those it 
has devoured that it can scarcely move without 
bursting. Not contented with this prey alone, how- 
ever, the younger grubs are said “ often to take ad- 
vantage of the helpless inactivity into which the glut- 
tony of their matiirer comrades has thrown them, 
and from mere wantonness, it should seem, when in 
no need of other food, pierce and devour themf.” It 
is a familiar occurrence to those who breed insects to 
find caterpillars, whose natural food is leaves, devour- 
ing others in the same nurse-box ; and without any 
* Salisbury's Hints on Orchards, p. 92. 
t Kirby and Spence; vol. i.p. 277. 





apparent discrimination whether these are the progeny 
of their own mother, or of a diflFerent species *. 

We have frequently observed a very remarkable 
instinct in the grubs of a species of beetle (Scolyius 
Destructor, Geoffrov), which lives under the dead 
bark of trees. The mother insect, as is usual with 
beetles, deposits her eggs in a patch or cluster in a 
chink or hole in the bark ; and when the brood is 
hatched, they begin feeding on the bark which had 
formed their cradle. There is, of course, nothing won 
derful in their eating the food selected by their mother; 
but it appears that, like the caterpillars of the clothes 
moth, and the tent insects, they cannot feed except 
under cover. They dig, therefore, long tubular galleries 
between the bark and the wood ; and, in order not 
to interfere with the runs of their brethren, they 
branch off from the place of hatching like rays from 
the centre of a circle : though these are not al- 
ways in a right line, yet, however near they may ap- 
proach to the contiguous ones, none of them ever 



Bark mined in rays by beetle grabs. 

* J. R, See also De Geer, i, 533, &c., and Reaumur, ii. 413. 




break into each other’s premises. We cannot but ad- 
mire the remarkable instinct implanted in those grubs 
by their Creator ; which guides them thus in lines di- 
verging farther and farther as they increase in size, 
so that they are prevented from interfering with the 
comforts of one another. 

The various instances of voracity which we have 
thus described sink into insignificance, when com- 
pared with the terrible devastation produced by the 
larv® of the locust (Locusta migratoriay Leach), 
— the scourge of oriental countries. “ A fire de- 
voureth before them,” says the Prophet Joel, “ and 
behind them a flame burneth : the land is as the 
garden of Eden before them, and behind them a 
desolate wilderness ; yea, and nothing shall escape 
them. The sound of their wings is as the sound of 
chariots, of many horses running to battle ; on the 
tops of mountains shall they leap, like the noise of a 
flame of fire that devoureth the stubble, as a strong 
people set in battle-array. Before their faces, the 
people shall be much pained, all faces shall gather 
blackness. They shall run like mighty men ; they 
shall climb the wall like men of war ; and they shall 
march every one in his ways, and they shall not break 
their ranks; neither shall one thrust another*.” 

The intelligent traveller. Dr. Shaw, was an eye- 
witness of their devastations in Barbary in 1724, 
where they first appeared about the end of March, 
their numbers increasing so much in the beginning 
of April as literally to darken the sun ; but by the 
middle of May they began to disappear, retiring into 
the Mettijiah and other adjacent plains to depo- 
sit their eggs. “ These were no sooner hatched 
in June,” he continues, “ than each of the broods 
collected itself into a compact body, of a furlong or 
more in square ; and marching afterwards directly 
? Joel ii. 2, &c. 





forwards toward the sea, they let nothing escape 
them, — they kept their ranks like men of war; climb- 
ing over, as they advanced, every tree or wall that 
was in their way ; nay, they entered into our very 
houses and bed-chambers, like so many thieves. 
The inhabitants, to stop their progress, formed 
trenches all over their fields and gardens, which they 
filled with water. Some placed large quantities of 
heath, stubble, and other combustible matter, in rows, 
and set them on fire on the approach of the locusts ; 
but this was all to no purpose, for the trenches were 
quickly filled up, and the fires put out, by immense 
swarms that succeeded each other. 

“ A day or two after one of these hordes was 
in motion, others were already hatched to march and 
glean after them. Having lived near a month in this 
manner, they arrived at their full growth, and threw 
off their nympha-state by casting their outward skin. 
To prepare themselves for this change, they clung 
by their hinder feet to some bush, twig, or corner of 
a stone ; and immediately, by using an undulating 
motion, their heads would first break out, and then 
the rest of their bodies. The whole transformation 
was performed in seven or eight minutes ; after which 
they lay for a small time in a torpid, and, seemingly, 
in a languishing condition ; but as soon as the sun 
and the air had hardened theirwings by drying up the 
moisture that remained upon them after casting their 
sloughs, they resumed their former voracity, with an 
addition of strength and agility. Yet they continued 
not long in this state before they were entirely dis- 
persed 

It is difficult to form an adequate conception of 
the swarms of locusts which, in 1797, invaded 
the interior of southern Africa, as recorded by Mr. 
Barrow. In the part of the country where he was, 
* Shaw’s Travels, p. 287. 




the whole surface of the ground, for an area of 
nearly two thousand square miles, might literally be 
said to be covered with them. The water of a very 
wide river was scarcely visible, on account of the dead 
carcases of locusts that floated on the surface, drowned 
in the attempt to come at the reeds that grew in it. 
They had devoured every blade of grass, and every 
green herb, except the reeds. But they are not pre- 
cisely without a choice in their food. When they at- 
tack a field of corn just come into ear, they first, ac- 
cording to Mr. Barrow, mount to the summit and 
pick out every grain before they touch the leaves and 
stem, keeping the while constantly in motion, with the 
same intent of destruction always in view. When the 
larvae, which are much more voracious than the perfect 
insects, are on a march during the day, it is utterly 
impossible to turn the direction of the troop, and this 
seems usually to correspond with that of the wind. 
Towards the setting of the sun the march is discon- 
tinued, when the troop divides into companies that sur- 
round the small shrubs, or tufts of grass, or ant- 
hills, in such thick patches, that they appear like so 
many swarms of bees ; and in this manner they rest till 
day-light. At these times it is that the farmers have 
any chance of destroying them ; this they sometimes 
effect by driving among them a flock of two or three 
thousand sheep, by whose restlessness great numbers 
of them are trampled to death. The year 1797 was 
the third of their continuance in Sneuwberg; and their 
increase had been more than a million-fold from year 
to year. 

This district, however, had been entirely free from 
them for ten years preceding their visit in 1794. 
Their former exit was singular : all the full-grown 
insects were driven into the sea by a tempestuous 
north-west wind, and were afterwards cast up on the 
beach, where they formed a bank of three or four feet 





high, and extending to a distance of nearly fifty miles. 
When this mass b^ame putrid, and the wind was at 
south-east, the stench was sensibly felt in several parts 
of Sneuwberg, although distant at least a hundred 
and fifty miles 

Pallas gives a more detailed account of the daily 
proceedings of the lar\^ffi of the Italian locust (Lo- 
custa Italica, Leach). “ In serene weather,” he 
tells us, “ the locusts are in full motion in the morn- 
ing, immediately after the evaporation of the dew ; 
and if no dew has fallen, they appear as soon as the 
sun imparts his genial warmth. At first, some are 
seen running about like messengers among the re- 
posing swarms, which are lying partly compressed 
upon the ground at the side of small eminences, and 
partly attached to tall plants and shrubs. Shortly 
after the whole body begins to move forward in one 
direction, and with little deviation. They resemble a 
swarm of ants, all taking the same course, at small 
distances, but without touching each other : they uni- 
formly travel towards a certain region as fast as a fly 
can run, and without leaping, unless pursued ; in 
which case, indeed, they disperse, but soon collect 
again and follow their former route. In this manner 
they advance from morning to evening without halt- 
ing, frequently at the rate of a hundred fathoms, and 
upwards, in the course of a day. Although they pre- 
fer marching along high roads, foot-paths, or open 
tracts, yet, when their progress is opposed by bushes, 
hedges, and ditches, they penetrate through them : 
their way can only be impeded by the waters of 
brooks or canals, as they are apparently terrified at 
every kind of moisture. Often, however, they en- 
deavour to gain the opposite bank, with the aid of 
overhanging boughs ; and, if the stalks of plants or 
shrubs l3e laid across the water, they pass in close 
? Barrow’s Travels in South Africa, p. 257. 





columns over these temporary bridges, on which they 
even seem to rest, and enjoy the refreshing coolness. 
Towards sun-set, the whole swarm gradually collect 
in parties, and creep up the plants, or encamp on 
slight eminences. On cold, cloudy, or rainy days, 
they do not travel. As soon as they acquire wings, 
they progressively disperse, but still fly about in large 
swarms*.” 

When Captains Irby and Mangles were travelling 
round the southern extremity of the Dead Sea, in the 
end of May, they had an opportunity of observing 
these insect depredators. “ In the morning,” say 
they, “ we quitted Shobek. On our way we passed a 
swarm of locusts that were resting themselves in a 
gully they were in suflBcient numbers to alter ap- 
parently the colour of the rock on which they h^ 
alighted, and to make a sort of crackling noise while 
eating, which we heard before we reached them. 
Volney compares it to the foraging of an army. Our 
conductors told us they were on their way to Gaza, 
and that they pass almost annually 

Even our own island has been alarmed by the ap- 
pearance of locusts, a considerable number having 
visited us in 1748; but they happily perished without 
propagating. Other parts of Europe have not been 
so fortunate. In 1650 a cloud of locusts were seen 
to enter Russia in three diflerent places ; and they 
afterwards spread themselves over Poland and Li- 
thuania in such astonishing multitudes, that the air 
was darkened, and the earth covered with their num- 
bers. In some places they were seen lying dead, 
heaped upon each other to the depth of four feet ; in 
others they covered the surface of the ground like a 
black cloth : the trees bent with their weight, and the 


? Travels in Russia, ii, 422-6. 
t Irby and Mangles’ Travels in Egypt and Syria, p. 443. 





damage the country sustained exceeded computation 
They have frequently come also from Africa into 
Italy and Spain. In the year 591 an infinite army 
of locusts, of a size unusually large, ravaged a con- 
siderable part of Italy, and being at last cast into the 
sea, (as seems for the most part to be their fate,) 
a pestilence, it is alleged, arose from their stench, 
which carried off nearly a million of men and beasts. 
In the Venetian territory, likewise, in 1478, more 
than 30,000 persons are said to have perished in a 
famine chiefly occasioned by the depredations of 
locusts t- 

* Bingley, Anim. Biog., iii., 280. 

f MoujOTetj Theatr. Insect., 123. 




Voracity of Caterpillars, Grabs, and Magfgots conducted* 

Maggots. 

Adhering to the distinction of terming those larvae 
which are destitute of feet, maggotSy we shall notice 
here a very destructive one, which is sometimes popu- 
larly called the grub, and sometimes confounded with 
the wire worm*. We allude to the larvae of one or two 
common species of crane flies {Tipulid(B)y well known 
by the provincial names of father-long-legs, Jenny- 
spiniiers, and tailors. These insects are so common 
in some meadows, that, being very shy and fearful of 
danger, they rise in swarms at every step — some of 
them flying high, others only skipping over the grass, 
and others running and using their long legs as the 
inhabitants of marshy countries use stilts, and em- 
ploying their wings like the ostrich to aid their 
limbs. 

These flies deposit their eggs in the earth ; some- 
times in grass fields or moist meadows, and some- 
times in the tilled ground of gardens and farms. 
For this purpose the female is provided with an ovi- 
positor well adapted to the opeiation, consisting of a 
sort of pincers or forceps of a horny consistence, and 
sharp at the point. By pressure, as Reaumur says, 
the eggs may be extruded from this in the same way 
as the stone can be easily squeezed out of a ripe 
cherry, as in the following figure. 

* See Stickney’s Observ, era the Grub, 8vo. Hull, 1800. 



Maggots of crane plies. 




Ovipositor and eggs of the crane fly {Tipula), 

The eggs are exceedingly small and black, like 
grains of gunpowder, and each female lays a good 
many hundreds. The position which she assumes 
appears somewhat awkward, for she raises herself 
perpendicularly on her two hind legs, using her ovi- 
positor as a point of support, and resting with her 
fore-legs upon the contiguous herbage. She then 
thrusts her ovipositor into the ground as far as 
the first ring of her body, and leaves one or more 
eggs in the hole ; and next moves onwards to ano- 
ther place, but without bringing herself into a hori- 
zontal position. The maggot, when hatched from 
the egg, immediately attacks the roots of the grass 
and other herbage which it finds nearest to it ; and 
of course the portion of the plant above ground 
withers for lack of nourishment. 

The maggots of this family which seem to do most 
injury are those of Tipula oleracea and T, cornicina. 
In the summer of 1828, we observed more than an 
acre of ground, adjoining the Bishop of Oxford’s 
garden, at Blackheath, as entirely stripped, both of 
grass and every thing green, as if the turf had been 







Crane fly ovipositing, and the larva beneath, in the earth, feeding' 
upon grass roots. 

pared off from the surface, the only plant untouched 
being the tiny bird tare {Ornithopus perpusillm): 
On digging here to learn the cause, we found these 
larvae already full-fed, and about to pass into pupae, 
after having left nothing upon which they could subsist. 
It was not a little remarkable that they seemed to be 
altogether confined to this spot ; for we did not meet 
with a single foot of turf destroyed by them in any 
other part of the heath, or in the adjacent fields- So 




very complete, however, was their destruction of the 
roots on the spot in question, that even now, at the 
distance of two years, it is still visibly thinner of 
herbage than the parts around it 

Reaumur gives a similar account of their ravages 
in Poitou* where, in certain seasons, the grass of the 
low moist meadows has been so parched up in conse- 
quence, as not to afford sufficient provender for the 
cattle. He describes the soil in Poitou as a black 
peat mould; and it was the same in which we found 
them at Blackheath, with this difference, that the spot 
was elevated and dry. According to M. Rt^aumur, also, 
their only food is this sort of black mould, and not the 
roots of grass and herbage, which he thinks are only 
loosened by their burrowing t* This view of the matter 
appears strongly corrolx)rated by the fact that several 
species of the family feed upon the mould in the holes 
of decaying trees, particularly the larva of a very 
beautiful one {Ctenophora Jlaveolata^ Meigen), 
which is very rare in Britain. It is proper to men- 
tion, however, that Mr. Stickney’s experiments J, 
contrary to the conclusions of Reaumur, indicate 
that these larvae devour the roots of grass ; and Stew- 
art says they “ feed on the roots of plants, corn, and 
grasses, and are thence destructive to gardens, fields, 
and meadows. They prevailed in the neighbourhood 
of Edinburgh, and other places in Scotland, in the 
spring of 1800, when they laid waste whole fields of 
oats and other grain §.” 

In many districts of England these insects cut off 
a large proportion of the wheal crop, particularly, it 
would appear, when it had been sown on clover leys. 
“ In the rich distiict,'’ say Kirby and Spence, “ of 
Sunk Island, in Holderness, in the spring of 1813, 
hundreds of acres of pasture have been entirely de- 

* J. R. t Reaumur, v. 12, &c. 

Obs. on the Grub, ^ ^ Elements, ii., 267. 




^troyed by them, being rendered as completely brown 
as if they had suffered a three months’ drought, and 
destitute of all vegetation except a few thistles. A 
square foot of the dead turf* being dug up, 210 grubs 
were counted on it ; and, what furnishes a striking 
proof of the prolific powers of those insects, last year 
it was difficult to find a single one 

It is worthy of remark that the mandibles of these 
destructive creatures, which are claw-shaped and 
transverse, do not act against each other as is usual 
among insects, but against two other pieces which are 
immoveable, convex, and toothed, — as if the under- 
jaw in quadrupeds were divided into two, and should 
act vertically on the two portions of the immoveable 
upper-jaw thrown in between them. 

The maggot of a minute fly of the same family, 
known by the name of the wheat fly (Ceddo- 
myia Tritici, Kirby), is frequently productive of 
great damage in the crops of wheat. Its history was 
first investigated by Marsham, and subsequently by 
Kirby, and several other intelligent naturalists The 
parent fly is very small, not unlike a midge (Ciilicoi- 
des punctata, Latr.), of an orange colour, and wings 
rounded at the tip, and fringed with hairs t. The 
female is furnished with a retractile ovipositor, four 
times as long as the body, and as fine as a hair, for 
depositing her eggs, which she does in the glumes 
of the florets of the grain. The following account of 
its proceedings is given by Mr. Shireff, an intelli- 
gent farmer of East Lothian. 

“ Wheat-flies,” he says, “ were first observed here 
this season on the evening of the 21st of June, and, 
from the vast number seen, it is probable a few of 
them may have been in existence some days previous. 

• Intr. i. 318, note. 

f Linn. Trans., iii., 243 — iv., 234-240 ; v., 96. 






The eggs were visible on the 28d, the larvae on the 
80th of that month, and the pupae on the 29th of 
July. The flies were observed depositinp^ egc^s on 
the 28th, and finally disappeared on the 30th July ; 
thus having existed throughout a period of thirty- 
nine days. 

“ The flies were observed to frequent the wheat- 
plant, including the thick-rooted couch-grass (Triti- 
cum repens). They generally reposed on the lower 
parts of the stems during the day, and became active 
about sunset, except when the wind was high. I 
have, however, seen them flying about on cloudy 
mornings, till seven o’clock ; and, upon one occasion, 
witnessed them de])ositing their eggs, in a shaded 
situation, at two in the afternoon. Their movements 
appear to be influenced by the rays of light, of which 
they seem impatient, being active when the sun is 
below or near the horizon : they frequent the most 
umbrageous part of the crop, and shun that which is 
deficient in foliage. 

“ The flies almost invariably preferred the ears 
emerging from the vagina to those farther advanced, 
for depositing their eggs on ; and as one side only 
of the ear is exposed when the plant is in this stage 
of growth, the other side generally remained unin- 
jured. The fly deserted the fields as the crop ad- 
vanced towards maturity, and were found longest 
on the spring-sown portion of the crop. It seemed 
to feed on the gum adhering to the newly emerged 
ears ; and as there is a great diversity in the time of 
sowing wheat in this neighbourhood, and conse- 
quently of the ears escaping from the vagina, I 
attribute the unusual length of time it has existed 
this season, to the supply of food thus gradually 
fiirnished. 

“ The fly deposits its eggs with much intensity, 
and may easily be taken when so employed. Upon 




one occasion, I numbered thirty-five flies on a single 
ear ; and, after carrying it a distance of a quarter of 
a mile, six of them still continued to deposit eggs. 
At another time, I placed a fly, then laying, between 
the face and glass of my watch, where it deposited 
several eggs, although invariably interrupted by the 
revolution of the moment hand. 

“ The eggs of the fly are generally found in clus- 
ters, varying in number from two to ten, upon the 
inner chaff, in which the furrowed side of the grain is 
embedded, and are also occasionally to be seen in 
the interior parts of the flower and chaff The eggs 
are deposited by means of a long slender tube, and 
fixed with a glutinous substance possessed by the fly. 
A thread of glutinous matter frequently connects a 
cluster of eggs with the style, where the larvae seem 
to subsist on the pollen ; in one instance, fifteen eggs 
were numbered on such a thread, several of which 
were suspended on the portion extending between 
the chaff and the style. The fly not only seems thus 
to provide a conveyance from the larvae to the style, 
but also food for their support. The anthers are 
prevented from leaving the style in consequence of 
being gummed down by the glutinous matter of the 
fly, and the pollen thereby detained for the use of the 
larvae, which otherwise would, in part, be carried out 
of the glumes by the expansion of the filaments, — 
known to fanners by the term bloom. In the exertion 
of gumming down the anthers, many of the flies are 
entangled in the vascules of the corolla, and thus 
become a sacrifice to their maternal affection. 

“The larvae are produced from the eggs in the 
course of eight or ten days : they are at first perfectly 
transparent, and assume a yellow colour a few days 
afterwards. They travel not from one floret to an- 
other, and forty-seven have been numbered in one. 
Occasionally there are found in the same floret larvae 



 

and a grain, which is generally shrivelled, as if de- 
prived of nourishment ; and although the pollen may 
furnish the larvae with food in the first instance, 
they soon crowd around the lower part of the germen, 
and there, in all probability, subsist on the matter 
destined to have formed the grain* 



Germination of a prain of wheat, n, the heart of the grain, 
the part devoured by tlie insect, b, ha? of the seed, c, the root, 
d, vessels to convey the nutriment for the root, e, feathers con- 
veying the pollen to fructify the seed. 

Another intelligent observer, Mr. Gorrie, of Anna! 
Gardens, Perthshire, found that by the first of August 
all the maggots leave the ears, and go into the ground 
about the depth of half an inch, where it is probable 
they pass the winter in the pupa state t.” 

, It is interesting to learn that this destructive iu- 

? Loudon’s Mag. of Nat. Hist., Nov. 1829, p. 450. 
f Ibid. September, 1829, p. 324. 





IVansformations of the wheat jSjt. a, the female fljr magnified ; 
ft, lafvse, natural faize, feeding ; c, one magnified. 

sect is providentially prevented from multiplying so 
numerously as it might otherwise do, by at least two 
species of ichneumons, which deposit their eggs in the 
larvae. One of these {Encyrtus imerensy Latr.) is 
very small, black, and shining. The other {Platy- 
gaster Tipul^B, Latr.) is also black, with red feet, and a 
blunt tail. These have been frequently mistaken for 
the wheat-iiy ; but as it has only two wings, while they 
have fouTy the distinction is obvious. In order to 
observe the proceedings of the ichneumons, Kirby 
placed a number of the larvae of the wheat-fly on a 
sheet of white paper, and set a female ichneumon in 
the midst of them. She soon pounced upon her vic- 
tim, and intensely vibrating her antennae, and bending 
herself obliquely, plunged her ovipositor into the body 
of the larva, depositing in it a single egg. She then 
passed to a second, and proceeded in the same man- 
ner, depositing a single egg in each. Nay, when 
she examined one which she found had already been 
pricked, she always rejected it and passed to another *. 
Mr. ShirefF repeated these experiments successfully, 
except that he saw an ichneumon twice prick the 
same maggot, which “ writhed in seeming agony,*' 
and “ it was again stung three times by the same 
fly.*’ He adds, “ the earwig also destroys the larvee, 
three of which I successively presented to an earwig, 
which devoured them immediately f.*’ Mr. Gorrie 
describes these ichneumons as appearing in myriads 
^ Linn, Trans, vt supra* f Loudon’s Mag, ut supra* 





on the outside of the ear ; but as impatient of bright 
light, sheltering themselves from the sun's rays 
among the husks. 

Our English naturalists were for many years of 
opinion, that the insect called the Hessian-fly, so 
destructive to wheat crops in America, belonged to 
the same family (Muscidis) with the common house- 
fly ; and Mr. Markwick, an intelligent naturalist, by 
a series of observations on a British fly (Chlorops 
pumilionis, Meigen) which attacks the stems of 
wheat, created no little alarm among agriculturists. 
Markwick’s fly is less than a fourth of an inch in 
length, with dark shoulders striped with two yellow 
lines, and the maggot is white. He planted roots of 
wheat containing larvae in a small flower- pot, and 
covered them with gauze. Each stem produced one 
of the above flies. The crop of wheat attacked by 
this maggot, though at first it appeared to fail, 
turned out well in consequence of numerous side 
shoots. It is only the early wheat sown in October 
that is affected by it *. 




a. The Hessian fly (^Cecidomyia destructor); b, Markmck fly 
Chlurups pumilionis) magnihed. 

It now appears that Markwick was altogether 
mistaken in identifying his insect with the Hessian 
fly (Cecidomyia destructor y Say), which has been 
accurately described by Mr. Say in the “ Journal of 
the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia” 
* Mag. Nat. Hist. July 1829, p. 292. 






for 1817. It is a little larger than our wheat-fly, 
more slender in the body, has longer legs, and is 
not orange, but black and fulvous. The female 
deposits from one to eight or more eggs on a single 
plant of wheat, between the sheath of the inner leaf 
and the stem nearest the roots ; in which situation, 
with its head towards the root or first joint, the 
young larva passes the winter, eating into the stem, 
and causing it to break 

The devastation committed by the Hessian fly 
seems to have been first observed in 1776, and it 
was erroneously supposed that the insect was con- 
veyed among straw by the Hessian troops from Ger- 
many. It was first noticed in the wheat fields of 
Liong Island, from which it spread gradually at the 
rate of fifteen or twenty miles round ; and in 1789 it 
had advanced two hundred miles from its original 
station in Long Island. Other accounts state that it 
did not travel more than seven miles annually, and 
did little serious damage before 1788. Their num- 
bers seem almost incredible. The houses in the 
infested districts swarmed with them to so great a 
degree, that every vessel was filled with them ; five 
hundred were actually counted on a glass tumbler 
which had been set down for a few minutes with a 
little beer in it. They were observed crossing the 
Delaware river like a cloud ; and even mountains do 
not seem to interrupt their progress f. We can well 
understand, therefore, that so formidable a ravager 
should have caused a very great alarm ; and even our 
own government was in fear lest the insect should be 
imported. The privy council, indeed, sat day after 
day in deep consultation what measures should be 
adopted to ward off the danger of a calamity more to 
be dreaded, as they well knew, than the plague or 
the pestilence. Expresses were sent off in all direc- 
* Mag. Nat. Hist., vol. i. p.22S. 





tions to the officers of the customs at the different out- 
ports respecting the examination of cargoes,-— de- 
spatches were written to the ambassadors in France, 
Austria, Prussia, and America, to gain information, — 
and so important altogether was the business deemed, 
that the minutes of council, and the documents col- 
lected from all quarters, fill upwards of two hundred 
pages 

As in the case of the English wheat-fly, the Ame- 
rican Hessian fly has a formidable enemy in a 
minute four-wingedfly destructor. Say), 

which deposits its eggs in the larvae. Were it not 
for the Ceraphron, indeed, Mr. Say is of opinion that 
the crops of wheat would be totally annihilated in 
the districts where the Hessian fly prevails t. 

Those who have, from popular associations, been 
accustomed to look with disgust at the little white 
larvae common in cheese, well known under the name 
of hoppers, will be somewhat surprised to hear the 
illustrious Swammerdam say, “ 1 can take upon me 
to affirm, that the limbs and other parts of this 
maggot are so uncommon and elegant, and con- 
trived with so much art and design, that it is impos- 
sible not to acknowledge them to be the work ot infi- 
nite power and wisdom, from which nothing is hid, 
and to which nothing is impossible J” But who- 
ever will examine it with care, will find that Swam- 
merdam has not exaggerated the facts. 

The cheese-fly {Piophila Casei, Fallen) is very 
small and black, vidth whitish wings, margined with 
black. It was one of those experimented upon by 
Redi to prove that insects, in the fabric of which so 
much art, order, contrivance, and wisdom appear, 

* Young, Annals of Agric., vol. xi. 
t Journ. of Acad. Philadelph. ut supra, 

J Bibl, Naturae, vol. ii. p. 63. 





could not be the production of chance or rottenness, 
but the work of the same Omnipotent hand which 
created the heavens and the earth. This tiny little 
fly is accordingly furnished with an admirable instru- 
ment for depositing its eggs, in an ovipositor, which 
it can thrust out and extend to a great length, so 
that it can penetrate to a considerable depth into the 
cracks of cheese, where it lays its eggs, 256 in 
number. “ I have seen them myself,’* says Swam- 
merdam, “thrust out their tails for this purpose to an 
amazing length, and by that method bury the eggs 
in the deepest cavities. I found in a few days after- 
wards a number of maggots which had sprung from 
those eggs, perfectly resembling those of the first 
brood that had produced the mother fly, I cannot 
but also take notice that the rottenness of cheese is 
really caused by these maggots ; for they both crum- 
ble the substance of it into small particles and also 
moisten it with some sort of liquid, so that the 
decayed part rapidly spreads. I once observed a 
cheese which I had purposely exposed to this kind of 
fly grow moist in a short time in those parts of it 
where eggs had been deposited, and had afterwards 
been hatched into maggots; though, before, the 
cheese was perfectly sound and entire*.” 

The cheese-hopper is furnished with two homy 
claw-shaped mandibles, which it uses both for dig- 
ging into the cheese and for moving itself, being 
destitute of feet. Its powers of leaping have been 
observed by every one ; and Swammerdam says, “ I 
have seen one, whose length did not exceed the 
fourth of an inch, leap out of a box six inches deep, 
that is, twenty-four times the length of its own 
body: others leap a great deal higher t.** For this 
purpose it first erects itself on its tail, which is fur- 
nished with two wart-like projections, to enable it to 

? Swammerdam, vol. ii. p. 69. f Bibl. Nat., vol. ii. p. 65, 





mamtain its balance. It then bends itself into a 
circle, catches the skin near its tail with its hooked 
mandibles, and after strongly contracting itself from 
a circular into an oblong form, it throws itself with a 
jerk into a straight line, and thus makes the leap. 



Cheese hoppers (^Piophila casein Fallen), the maggot ex- 
tended ; 6, in a leaping position; d, the same magnitied ; e, the 
fly magnified ; /, g, the fly, natural size. 

One very surprising provision is remarkable in 
the breathing-tubes of the cheese maggot, which are 
not placed, as in caterpillars, along the sides, but a 
pair near the head and another pair near the tail. 
Now, when burrowing in the moist cheese, these 
would be apt to be obstructed ; but to prevent this, 
it has the power of bringing over the front pair a 
fold of the skin, breathing in the meanwhile through 
the under pair. Well may Swammerdam denomi- 
nate tliese contrivances “ surprising miracles of God's 
power and wisdom in this abject creature.” 

Like the other destructive insects above men- 
tioned, the multiplication of the cheese fly is checked 
by some insect, whose history, so far as we are 
aware, is not yet known. Swammerdam found 
many of the maggots with other larvae in their 
bodies ; but he did not trace their transformations. 
If they were the larvae of an ichneumon, it must be 
exceedingly minute. 

It must have attracted ^he attention of the most 




incurious, to sec, during the summer, swarms of flies 
crowding about the droppings of cattle, so as almost 
to conceal the nuisance, and presenting instead a 
display of their shining corslets and twinkling 
wings. The object of all this busy bustle is to 
deposit their eggs where their progeny may finil 
abundant food ; and the final cause is obviously both 
to remove the nuisance and to provide abundant 
food for birds and other animals, which prey upon 
flies or their larvae. The same remarks apply with 
no less force to the blow flies which deposit their 
eggs, and in some cases their young, upon carcasses. 
The common house fly ^Musca domeiticd) belongs 
to the first division, the natural food of its larvae 
being horse-dung ; consequently it is always most 
abundant in houses in the vicinity of stables, cu- 
cumber beds, &c., to which, when its numbers 
become annoying, attention should be primarily 
directed, rather than having recourse to fly-waters. 

Another common insect {Bibio horiulanus, 
Meigen) lives in the larva state in cesspools, along with 
rat-tailed larvae, &c. The maggot of the bibio is very 
peculiar in form. They are hatched from eggs with 
shells as hard as Paris plaster, deposited on the adja- 
cent walls, and frequently upon the pupa case which the 
mother has previously quitted. Like the larvjE of the 
crane flies above described, this one moves itself chiefly 
by means of its mandibles, and therefore it can make no 
progress on a piece of smooth glass. Its skin, it may 
be remarked, is so exceedingly hard and tough, that 
it is no easy matter to kill it We have introduced 
this insect here, however, chiefly for the purpose of 
refuting an erroneous popular accusation against 
it, which is supported by the high authorities of 
Ray and Rt$aumur. Our great English naturalist 
calls it the deadliest enemy of the flowers in spring, 
and accuses it of despoiling the gardens and fields of 
* Swammerdam, x. 212. 






^very blossom*. iU^aumur is less decided in his opi- 
nion ; for though he perceived that, not being fur- 
nished with mandibles, they could not, as is supposed, 
gnaw the buds of fruit-trees ; yet, from their being 
found crowded upon flowers and buds, he thinks they 
may suck the juices of these, and thus cause them to 
wither f. Wc are satisfied, by repeated observation, 
that the fly only uses its sucker {havMellum) for sip- 
ping the honey of flowers, or the gum with which 
the opening bud is usually covered. The damage 
of which it is accused is more probably done by 
cateri)illars, snails, or other night-feeding insects, 
which, not being seen by day, the fly is blamed for 
what it is entirely innocent ofj. 



Transformations of Bihio hortulanus^ Meigen. a* the ogg 
inagnififed ; h, the same when Imtched ; c, d, the maggot and 
pupa magnified ; e, /, the same, natural size ; ji, the fly. 

In the case of the blow-flies, Linnaeus tells us that 
the larvae of three females of Musca vomitoria will 
devour the carcase of a horse as quickly as would 
a lion ; and we are not indisposed to take this 

* Rsai Hist. Insect, Pref, p. xi., + Reaumur, v, 56. 

1 J. R. 


2 A 2 






literally, when we know that one mother of an allied 
species {M, carnaria) produces about 20,000, and 
that they have been proved by Redi to increase in 
weight two-hundred-fold within twenty-four hours. 
The most extraordinary fact, illustrative of the voracity 
of these maggots which we have met with, is the 
following, given by Kirby and Spence, from “ Bell's 
Weekly Messenger — 

“ On Thursday, June 25th, died at Asbornby, 
Lincolnshire, John Page, a pauper belonging to 
Silk-Willoughby, under circumstances truly singular. 
He being of a restless disposition, and not choosing 
to stay in the parish work-house, was in the habit of 
strolling about the neighbouring villages, subsisting on 
the pittance obtained from door to door : the support 
he usually received from the benevolent was bread and 
meat ; and after satisfying the cravings of nature, it 
was his custom to deposit the surplus provision, par- 
ticularly the meat, betwixt his shirt and skin. Hav- 
ing a considerable portion of this provision in store, 
so deposited, he was taken rather unwell, and laid 
himself down in a field, in the parish of Scredington ; 
when, from the heat of the season at that time, the 
meat speedily became putrid, and was of course 
struck by the flies : these not only proceeded to 
devour the inanimate pieces of flesh, but also literally 
to prey upon the living substance ; and when the 
wretched man was accidentally found by some of the 
inhabitants, he was so eaten by the maggots that his 
death seemed inevitable. After clearing away, as 
well as they were able, these shocking vermin, those 
who found Page conveyed him to Asbornby, and a 
surgeon was immediately procured, who declared that 
his body was in such a state, that dressing it must be 
little short of instantaneous death ; and, in fact, the 
man did survive the operation but a few hours. 
When first found, and again when examined by the 





surgeon, he presented a sight loathsome in the ex* 
treme ; white maggots of enormous size were crawl- 
ing in and upon his body, which they had most 
shockingly mangled, and the removing of the exter- 
nal ones served only to render the sight more horrid.” 
Kirby adds, “ in passing through this parish last 
spring,. I inquired of the mail-coachman whether he 
had heard this story ; and he said the fact was well 
known*.” The year in which this remarkable cir- 
cumstance occurred is not mentioned. 

The importance of the insects just mentioned, in 
removing with great rapidity what might otherwise 
prove nuisances of considerable magnitude, naturally 
leads us to notice another sort of larva, no less useful 
in diminishing the numbers of the plant-lice (^Aphides) 
which do so much damage to cultivated vegetables. 
We do this also the more readily, that these very 
insects, which are so beneficial to the husbandmau 
and the gardener, are often erroneously accused of 
being themselves the cause of the mischief. A corre- 
spondent of the Natural History Magazine, for exam- 
ple, says, “ the lady-bird is remarkably abundant this 
season. The shriraji (larva) of this insect destroys 
both turnips and peas in many parts of England t-*’ 
The truth is, however, that all the species of lady- 
birds (CoccinellidfPy Latr.), both in the larva and the 
perfect state, feed exclusively on aphides, and never 
touch vegetable substances. The eggs are usually 
placed in a group of twenty or more upon a leaf, 
where aphides a^und; and when the young are 
hatched they find themselves in the midst of their 
prey. There are a considerable number of species of 
this family (Mr. Stephens enumerates fifty) ; but the 
most common, perhaps, is the seven- spotted lady- 
bird (Coccinella septempunctata)y whose larva is of 

? Intr.1. 140, and note. f Mag. of Nat. Htst. i. 191. 




oonsiderabie size, and, of course, when abundant, 
must destroy a vast number of aphides. 



Transformations of the lady-bird {Coccinella ^-punctata., 
Linn.) a, the eggs, b, the larva, c, the pupa, d, the beetle, 
e, the same flying. /, Coucinella 20-punctata, Linn., flying. 


The mai^gots of many species of a beautiful femily 
(^Syrphid<s, Leach) of two-winged flies are also 
voracious devourers of the aphides. These larvee are 
of a tapering form, and they can contract or lengthen 
their bodies to a considerable extent ; while they have 
a retractile instrument, armed with three prongs like 
a trident, with which they transfix their helpless and 
hapless victims. “ When disposed to feed,” says 
Kirby, “ he fixes himself by his tail, and being blind, 
gropes about on every side, as the Cyclops did for 
Ulysses and his companions, till he touches one, 
which he immediately transfixes with his trident. 




elevates into the air, that he may not be disturbed with 
its struggles, and soon devours. The havoc which 
these grubs make amongst the aphides is astonish- 
ing. It was but last week that 1 observed the top 
of every young shoot of the currant-trees in my gar- 
den curled up by myriads of these insects. On ex- 
amining them this day, not an individual remained ; 
but beneath each leaf are three or four full-fed larvae of 
aphidivorous flies, surrounded with heaps of the skins 
of the slain, the trophies of their successful warfare 
The larvae of the lace-winged flies {HemerohidtEj 
Leach) are even more destructive to the aphides 
than either of the preceding ; insomuch that Reaumur 
was induced to call them the lions of the aphides. 
The mandibles of the larva of Hemerobius are some- 
what crescent-shaped, and, like those of the ant-lion, 
are hollow, by means of which they suck the juices 
of their victims. These are rarely so numerous as 
the two preceding families, but they make up for 
their fewness in the voracity with which they devour 
the little destroyers of our vegetables. 

* Intr. i. 264. 




Meclianiim of luspendin^ Chrysalldtis. 


A SAILOR would find it no easy process to cut for 
himself a suit of clothes out of a set sail, holding, the 
Awhile, only by the portion that he Was cutting. 
This is an operation which is performed every day by 
the tent-making caterpillars^. Difficult, however, 
as this may be considered to be, it appears as nothing 
when compared with another problem performed by 
a different family of caterpillars. “ Country fellows, 
for a prize,” says Kirby, “ sometimes amuse the 
assembled inhabitants of a village by running races 
in sacks : take one of the most active and adroit of 
these, bind him hand and foot, suspend him by the 
bottom of his sack, head downwards, to the branch 
of a lofty tree ; make an opening in one side of the 
sack, and set him to extricate himself from it, to de- 
taieh it from its hold, and suspend himself by his feet 
in its place. Though endowed with the suppleness 
of an Indian juggler, and promised his sack full of 
gold for a reward, you would set him an absolute 
impossibility; yet this is what our caterpillars, in- 
structed by a beneficent Creator, easily perform f.*’ 
The manner in which this is effected we shall now 
describe. 

A caterpillar, when about to change into a chry- 
* See Insect Architecture; p. 223. f Intr. iii. 209. 





salis, usually steals away from the plant on which it 
has been feeding, to find some secluded corner where 
it may undergo its transformation unmolested ; as if 
it were previously aware that it would no longer be 
able to escape from its enemies. Those which we 
shall first notice climb up the highest objects near 
them, such as walls, gates, palings, and trees, under 
the projections of which they think they may begin 
their operations in safety. Thus we once found a ca- 
terpillar of the small tortoiseshell butterfly upon the 
branch of a fir-tree, in Epping Forest, from ten to 
twelve feet above its native patch of nettles below ; 
and we have seen the cabbage butterfly under the 
lintel of a window on the third story*. 

Having thus selected a safe spot, the caterpillar 
begins, in order to attach itself securely, to weave a 
mooring of silk, the structure of which is well worthy 
of notice. The threads of which this is composed are 
so fine, that they are not easily distinguished ; and 
we recollect being not a little astonished at seeing a 
chrysalis of the admirable butterfly {Vanessa Ata- 
lanta) hanging within an inverted glass tumbler, 
where we had confined it, the silk being transparent, 
and all but invisible. It is necessary, therefore, in 
order to see it distinctly, to confine the caterpillars 
within a black box or other vessel. The silk threads 
are not drawn tight along, so as to be parallel with 
the surface, but are formed into a sort of projecting 
button, the caterpillar, for this purpose, alternately 
raising and depressing its head over the spot so as to 
draw out the threads, in the same way as a tambour- 
ing needle is worked in making a dot upon muslin : 
the base is accordingly made the broadest part, and 
the centre the most projecting, for a reason which 
will immediately appear. 

When it has flnished this little button of silk 

? J.R. 





(i, Caterpillar of Vanessa Antiopa weaving its button of silk. 
h, suspended by its hinder pro-legs irom the silk button . e, bend- 
ing in order to spUt the old skin. 

which is thickly interlaced and strongs, it turns round 
to examine it with its hinder pair of pro-legs ; and if 
it judges it to be sufficiently firm, it thrusts these 
among the meshes, taking secure hold with the nu- 
merous hooks with which these are fringed*, and 
swings itself fearlessly into the air, hanging with its 
head downwards. Ail this seems easy enough of 
perfbrmance, but it is only preliminary ; for it has 
still to throw off its skin, together with the hooks by 
which it is suspended, and this without losing its 
hold. The old skin is rent by the forcible bending 
round of the upper part of the body, which pushes 
through some of the angular projections of the chry- 
salis — a tedious and probably a painful operation, in 
See Insect Architecture^ p. 307, right hand figure. 





which it is often engaged the greater part of a day, 
and sometimes two, according to its strength. 'When 
the first rent is made, however, the included chrysalis 
soon wedges itself through the breach, the lower por- 
tion swelling out greatly more than the upper, so as 
to form an inverted but somewhat irregular cone. 
The included insect continuing its laborious exertions, 
by successively contracting and dilating the rings of its 
body, pushes off the now rent skin by degrees from the 
head towards the tail, as the sack-racers mentioned 
by Kirby would disengage themselves from the sacks 
in which they were inclosed, or as one would roll 
down a stocking from the leg. There are two cir- 
cumstances worthy of notice in this process : the 
position of the insect in hanging with its head down- 
wards, throws a greater portion of the fluids of the 
body towards the head, by means of their weight, 
which swell out the part that splits ; and also pushes 
back the old skin, while the sloughing skin is pre- 
vented from resiliating by a series of pegs, which act 
like the toothed rack of a sluice-gate. The old skin, 
being by these means pushed towards the tail, is of 
course compressed into several folds, which in some 
degree prevent the extension of the rent, and serve 
to keep the chrysalis from falling ; for being now 
detached from the skin, it has no hold upon the 
meshes of the silk button, and is, in fact, at some 
distance from it. 

This, then, is the part of the process where the 
nicety of the mechanism is most worthy of admira- 
tion ; for the hooks by which the insect i^ in the first 
instance suspended from the meshes of the silk are 
sloughed off, together with the skin, the grasp of 
whose folds becomes then the only support of the 
chrysalis. But this chrysalis, now deprived of feet, 
and some distance from the suspensory cordage of silk, 
has still to reach this, fix itself there, and cast off the 





sloughed skin altogether. This operation causes, says 
Bonnet, a spectator to tremble for the consequences, 
for every movement seems to render its iall almoK;^^ 
certain. It is, however, provided with means which 
answer the same purpose as hands, to enable it to 
climb ; it can elongate and contract at pleasure the 
rings of its body. It accordingly, with two con- 
tiguous rings, lays hold, as with a pair of pincers, of 
the portion of the sloughed skin nearest the head ; and 
elongating the rings beyond this, seizes upon a more 
distant portion, while it lets go the first. Repeating 
this process several times, it at length arrives at the 
silk button. 



pupa. 

The tail of a chrysalis, to an ordinary observer, 
would appear smooth, and quite unfitted for being 


Suspension op PuPifl. 





fixed to the silk in such a manner as to sustain its 
weight ; but careful examination discovers that it has 
been furnished with an efficient apparatus ibr this 
purpose, in a number of very minute hooks, similar 
to those of the pro-legs which have been sloughed off. 
Feeling about then with its tail for the silk, it insinu' 
ales these hooks among the meshes, and being no 
longer in danger of falling, it can swing secure, 
as it had previously done in the caterpillar state. 

Reaumur has, however, seen some chrysalides 
fall before they completed the process, in conse- 
quence, as he thinks, of having spun too slight a 
mesh-work of silk. In order to ascertain the cor- 
rectness of this inference, we tried a series of experi- 
ments upon a considerable number of a brood of the 
peacock butterfly {Vanessa lo), the same upon which 
Reaumur made his observations. We allowed some 
to spin only half the usual portion, and removed them 
to another station. Here they eagerly recommenced 
the task, and, if left unmolested, never fell from the 
spot; but if previously removed a second time, they 
seldom succeeded in completing the process in the 
usual way. They did not, indeed, in such cases, 
attempt spinning an imperfect silken suspensory; but 
abandoning in despair what they felt themselves in- 
capable of performing, they crept down to the bottom 
of the nurse box, and cast their skins without having 
anything to which they could attach themselves*. 

When the hooks of a chrysalis have been properly 
fixed among the meshes, it remains suspended con- 
tiguous to the skin which it has just cast ; but not 
liking the neighbourhood of its now useless spoil, it 
sets itself to get rid of it. For this purpose it con- 
torts itself in various ways, sometimes assuming a 
figure similar to an S, so that it may push against 
* J. R, 






the spines of the old skin ; ancl then giving itself a 
sudden jerk, it spins itself rapidly round a dozen or 
twenty times. Rt^aumur says that this gyration 
usually throws off the slough, in consequence of its 
being farther from the centre of motion, and there- 
fore exposed to a greater centrifugal force ; but un- 
luckily for this refined philosophy, it is not the silk 
button, but the chrysalis which spins round, and con- 
sequently the old skin does not twirl at all, and only 
moves like a pendulum ; — ^the best method, evidently, 
of disengaging the hooks it hangs by. Besides, the 
threads of the silk are not broken by the gyration, as 
Reaumur, followed by Kirby and Spence, asserts ; 
otherwise the weight of the chrysalis would to a cer- 
tainty break its threads, more easily than the sup- 
posed centrifugal force would break those which 
suspend the slough. Repeated observation has satis- 
fied us, therefore, that the twirling of the chrysalis is 
both for the purpose of disengaging the old skin and 
strengthening its own hold*. Bonnet may be right 
or wrong in thinking the stimulus of the spines of the 
old skin is the cause of the twirling : we have ob- 
served that the insects which change into chrysalides. 



a, 6, front and side view of chrysalides of Vanessa urticee sus- 
pended by their anal hooks, c, anal hooks magnified, d, old 
skin fallen off. 


* J. R. 






after being removed from their suspensories, also roll 
about and manifest great uneasiness* 

But this is only one mode by which chrysalides 
are suspended ; for nature, rich in variety, has taught 
others to employ a different mechanism, and consi- 
derably more complicated, not only fixing themselves 
by the tail, but throwing around their body a girdle 
of silk, which binds it firmly to the spot selected, and 
frequently in a horizontal position. Amongst those, 
the caterpillars of the pretty butterflies called by col- 
lectors hairstreaks (ThecleBy Fabr.), are remarkable, 
both for their resemblance in shape to the common 
woodlouse (Oniscus), and for their singular proceed- 
ings. In order to construct a silken cincture around the 
middle of its body, after it has secured itself at the tail, 
the Theda draws back its head, and pushing out its 
spinneret on one side, forms an arched thread by pass- 
ing it over to the other side. It then insinuates its 
head under this thread, and pressing the fore part of its 
body down as closely as possible, it contrives to place 
the girth over its middle. This circumstance is the more 
remarkable when it is considered that the silk is so 
fine as scarcely to be distinguishable to the eye, and 
that the back of the caterpillar over which it has to pass 
is thickly bestudded with spines. Th^ caterpillars, in- 
deed, of this whole family (LyccBncdidm, Leach), 
which includes our splendid blue and copper butter- 
flies, seem to follow the same process, repeating it 
from thirty to fifty times, in order to strengthen the 
band. As the caterpillars of the family just men- 
tioned are but seldom found, those who are desirous 
of observing the formation of the cincture of a chry- 
salis may readily gratify their curiosity by watching 
a brood of any of the native white butterflies, as 
those of the cabbage or of the hawthorn (Pieris 
Crateegiy Stephens). A caterpillar of this kind, 
* Bonnet; CEuvreS, vol. ii., p. 109. 

2 B 2 



 


however, though it forms a silken suspensory girth 
similar to the LyccRnmdtB^ constructs it in a different 
manner. Instead of retracting its head, it takes 
advantage of its great pliability, and bending itself 
nearly double, fixes a thread, carrying it over to the 
other side simply by turning its head. It repeats 
this process a great number of times, till it has 
formed a packet of threads sufficient for its cincture. 
It then stretches its head out into a right line with 
the body, and remains in this position till it casts its 
skin. The usual position of the chrysalides belong- 
ing to the family {Papilionidm^ Leach) in question, 
is horizontal ; but they frequently also hang vertically, 
and at different angles. We possess one of the large 
garden white butterfly {Pontia BrassictB)^ which 
was bound horizontally on the upper surface of a 
leaf of the abele tree (Populus alba)y being laid, and 
not hung, as is almost the invariable practice of the 
species. The leaf, moreover, is drawn together in 



a, Caterpillar of the black-veined white butterfly spinning its 
gUKpensory band. 6, chrysalis horizontally bound to a branch. 
c, we butterfly (^Pieris Cratceffi)^ siualler than in nature. 




the manner of the leaf-rollers, another most unusual 
and remarkable circumstance 

Another caterpillar of the same family, that of 
the swallow-tailed butterfly (Papilio Machadn^ 
liiNN.), one of our finest but local native insects, 
having a body less pliable than the preceding, has 
recourse to a still different method of forming a 
cincture. The proceedings of this beautiful cater- 
pillar, distinguished by two retractile horns, like 
those of a snail, may be illustrated by the mode in 
which a skein of silk is wound from the hand. The 
insect first attaches the end of his thread to the spot 
selected for hanging up the chrysalis, such as the 
bend of a branch of fennel or wild carrot, on which he 
has been feeding ; and extends it outwards by the 
hooks on his claws, by whicih means he keeps it 
stretched till he fixes it on the other side, forming a 



Caterpillar of the swallow-tailed butterfly, weaving its sus- 
pensory cincture, ft, . the caterpillar suspended for its change, 
c, the chrysalis sospeaded in a similar manner. 


* J. R. 




loop about twice the diameter of his body. He re- 
peats this process successively till he has spun forty, 
sixty, or as many threads as he deems strong enough 
for his cincture ; and then throwing it over his head 
towards the middle of his body, he proceeds to dis* 
encumber himself of his old skin. 

As the numerous threads composing the cincture 
are not glued together, but remain separate, it some- 
time happens that they slip, in whole or in part, from 
the claws of the caterpillar ; and Rt$aumur had one 
which was foiled in all its efforts to repair such an 
accident. It did not, indeed, make any attempt to 
spin a fresh cincture, probably from its materials 
being exhausted or from want of strength ; so that 
when it could not recover the fallen and entangled 
threads, it collected a few of them, suspended in 
which it cast its skin, but they, being too weak to sus- 
tain it, gave way, and it fell and perished *. 

We will not revert in this place to the varied con- 
trivances of those insects which construct coverings 
either of silk or other materials for inclosing their 
pupae, such as the silk worm, the puss-moth cater- 
pillar, the tent-makers, &c. ; but there is one family 
whose proceedings are so singular that they well 
merit investigation. We refer to the numerous spe- 
cies of what are indefinitely termed common flies, 
(Muscidai), and some families allied to them. Un- 
like most other larvae, these never cast their skins, 
not even when they change into pupae. The mag- 
got of the common blow-fly (Musca vomitorid)^ for 
example, when about to undergo its transformation, 
quits the carcase where it has been feeding, and bur- 
rows for an inch or two into the first soft earth it can 
meet with. Here it draws in its body into a shorter 
compass, and the soft skin being thus condensed, 


* Mem. 8ur les lasecte?, vob. i. ix« 






it acquires in thickness what it loses in extension : its 
moisture, also, disappearing by evaporation, or more 
probably by internal absorption, it becomes hard and 
tough, like thin parchment, and of a dull reddish- 
brown colour. The form is now that of an oblong 
ball ; and it was from that circumstance termed an egg 
by Redi and other early naturalists, — a term at which 
Swammerdam takes great offence in this instance. 
The various changes undergone by the included insect 
were traced from hour to hour by Reaumur with his 
usual patience and accuracy: but few of the minute 
circumstances detailed by him would probably interest 
our readers; except that in casting its mandibles, 
which are henceforth useless, they are not thrown off 
on the outside of the case, but remain on the inside. 

Were such an extraordinary transformation as this 
to happen to one of the larger animals, it would be 
held forth as altogether miraculous. Were a lion or 
an elephant, for example, to coil itself up into a ball, 
compressing its skin into twice the thickness and half 
the extent, while it remained uniform in shape and 
without joinings or openings ; and, at the same time, 
were it entirely to separate its whole body from this 
skin, and lie within it, as a kernel does in a nut, or a 
chick in an egg, throwing off its now useless tusks 
into a corner, — and then, after a space, should it 
acquire wings, break through the envelope, and take 
its flight through the air, — there would be no bounds 
to our admiration. Yet the very same circumstances 
in miniature take place every day during summer, 
almost under the eye of every individual, in the case 
of the blow fly, without attracting the aticntion of one 
person in a million. 

The maggots of the genus of two-winged flies 
(Syrphidee) mentioned above as feeding voraciously 
on aphides, do not, like those of the blow fly, burrow 
in the earth, but attach themselves to a leaf or a 




branch. Bein^ furnished with a species of adhesive 
gluten, a maggot of this sort applies a portion of this 
with its mouth to the spot which it has selected fbr 
its transformation, and, pressing its body upon it, 
becomes immoveably glued down there. When thus 
securely fixed, it contracts and shortens its body 
similarly to the maggot of the blow-fly ; but, instead of 
becoming like that, uniformly oblong, the head swells 
out and the tail becomes slender, till it terminates in 
a point, just reversing the previous form of the mag- 
got, which is rounded at the tail and pointed at the 
head. When the change is completed, indeed, it 
is a good deal in the form of one of Prince Rupert’s 
glass drops. When we first met with these pup», in* 
deed, we concluded they were galls, and were not a 
little surprised to see large wasp-looking flies issue 
from them ; but as they may be found in considerable 
abundance, it becomes easy to gratify curiosity and 
to confirm the facts just stated. It may not be out of 
place to remark, that several species of ichneumon 
b 



tt, Fnpa of blow fly. h, the same magnified, c, head of pupa- 
rium opened to shew the cast mandibles, dt, pupa.of syrphut* 






flies make reprisals upon them for their destruction of 
the helpless aphides. Swammerdam observed eight 
of these parasites issue from one pupa of a Syrphus^ 

The lady-birds (Coccinellidee) glue their pupae to 
leaves in much the same manner with the flies just 
mentioned : but their skin, instead of becoming smooth, 
wrinkles up by the shortening of the body of the 
grub ; because it is not so soft and pliable, and 
cannot, therefore, be compressed. The interior, how- 
ever, is smooth t. 

Those insects which live during their first stages 
in the water, exhibit a very different economy when 
they change from larvae into nymphs, as may be 
exemplified in the May-flies (Ephemeridas) and the 
dragon-flies (Libellulina). But as these will require to 
be described in a future page, we shall content our- 
selves at present with an account of an interesting 
but minute species of tipulidan gnat {Corethra plu~ 
micornisy Meigen), of a straw colour, whose history 
was first given by Reaumur and De Geer. The 
latter was induced, from the beautiful transparency 
of the larva, to name it Tipvla cristallina , — a qua- 
lity which renders it, its size being also very minute, 
rather difficult to discover : it is, however, a good 
subject for microscopical observations. Taking ad- 
vantage of the recent improvements in microscopes. 
Dr. Goring has accordingly given coloured figures 
both of the larva and pupa, as observed by him, in 
which he has added a few minute details | that are 
not in the otherwise very accurate figures of Reau- 
mur. 

The larva is rather less than a quarter of an inch 
long, and somewhat resembles in form those of the 
same family, particularly in the parts about the head, 

* Part ii., p. 99. t J. R. 

X Goring and Pritchard’s Nat. Hist., No. 1 ; and Reaumur, vol. 
V., mem. 1. 


 


the mandibles being horny, jointed, and capable of 
uniting into one pointed borer. The tail is furnished 
with plumed bristles, which appear to serve the pur- 
pose of fins. The nearer this crystalline larva is to 
its transformation, the more distinctly may be seen 
four kidney-shaped transparent bodies, of a brown 
colour, a pair on the fourth ring from the tail, and 
another pair at the shoulders. The former, perhaps, 
serve to inclose the tail fins of the pupa ; the latter 
the horns of the pupa, which again encase the an- 
tenna of the gnat ; but in another species (fiorethra 
culiciformis) De Geer supposed these to be respi- 
ratory organs. We are not aware that this larva has 
been actually seen to cast its skin, but there can be 
no doubt of the fact, for Rt^aumur found exuviae at 
the bottom of the glasses where he kept them* ; and 
we are not, consequently, authorized to assert that its 
transformation is “ not effected, as in other insects, 
by casting the outer skin, but by an actual conver- 
ijiou of' one form of matter into another We 
watched above a hundred of them without being so 
fortunate as to see their transformation into pupse, 
though we more than once observed the emergence 
of the fly. 

Our chief reason, however, for introducing it here, 
is to shew tlie mode in which the pupa is suspended, 
or rather buoyed up, in the water, by means of its 
foliated tail and the shape of its body, which is 
bulged out above, and narrowed as it approaches the 
lower extremity. It is, besides, very lively in the 
pupa state, and jerks about with great agility, but 
usually keeps close to the surface of the water, so as 
to project its horns or antenn® cases above it. In 
the figures we have endeavoured to combine the 
details of Reaumur and Dr. Goring. 

* Reaumur, vol. v., p. 41-2. 

•f Goring and Pritchard, Nat. Hist., No, 1, p.23. 




a a, larva of Corethra plumicornis magfnified. h, theraan- 
dibles and palpi, c, the respiratory fins, d, the pupa ma^rnified. 
e, pupa, natural size, f, larva, natural size, the female fly. 
A, the male fly. 


We possess a small aquatic pupa which is furnished 
at the tail with four horny hooks resembling* the 
prickles on the stem of a rose-tree, and evidently 
intended as suspensory appendages. It was found 
hanging to a deal board, which had been immersed 
in running water, and seems from its form to be the 
pupa of a moth (fiydrocampa ?)*. 


* J.R. 






Form and Structure of Pupa, 


The figures delineated in the preceding chapter shew 
how different in form many pupae are, both from 
their larvae and from the insects to be afterwards 
evolved from them, — as different, indeed, as the form 
of a bud from the seedling tree, or from the leaf, 
branch, or blossom, which is destined to shoot from it. 
Pupae, as we formerly remarked, have as striking an 
analogy to the buds of plants, as eggs have to seeds ; 
— and this is the more necessary to be insisted on, 
that their nature .has been grossly misrepresented 
even by authors of eminence, and, in other matters, of 
unquestionable accuracy. The term Metamorphosis^ 
so long applied to the various stages of insect life, 
has been one of the chief means of propagating the 
erroneous views in question, inasmuch as it implies 
a supernatural change like those described in the 
poetical fables of Ovid. The term Traiirformation, 
though not perhaps free from a similar implication, 
is much less strong and less likely to mislead. 

That our objection does not originate in hypercri- 
tical nicety, but is of no little importance with regard 
to the accurate knowledge of the history of insects, 
could be proved by reference to many well-known 
works of natural history; but we shall limit our 
illustrations to one or two of those strange fancies 
which have obscured and perplexed this branch of 
our subject. 

We shall begin with the illustrious Harvey, — the 
discoverer of the circulation of the blood, — ^who, in 





his exercitations on the generation of animals, says — 
“ There are two ways in which we observe one thing 
to be made out of another (as out of matter), both 
in art and nature, especially in the generation of 
animals: one is, when a thing is made out of ano- 
ther already in being, as a bed out of wood, and 
a statue out of a stone ; when, for example, all 
the materials of the workmanship exist before the 
workman begins the work or attempts to give it any 
form. The other way is, when the stuff receives both 
being and form at the same time. As, therefore, the 
works of art are performed two ways ; the one by the 
workman’s dividing, cutting, and paring away the 
matter prepared for those operations, so as to leave 
behind, like a statuary, the figure of the thing he 
intends to make : the other, by the workman’s adding 
and moulding, as well as paring away, the materials, 
and at the same time tempering the matter itself, so 
as to produce, like a potter, the figure ; which, for 
this reason, may be said to be made, rather than 
formed; — in the same manner it happens in the 
generation of animals ; some of which are formed and 
transfigured out of matter already digested and in- 
creased for this purpose, all the parts springing out 
together distinctly by a kind of metamorphosis, and 
thus forming a perfect animal, while other animals 
are made piece by piece.” 

He proceeds to tell us, that the generation of insects 
is performed after the first manner; the egg, by 
metamorphosis, producing the worm ; or matter in a 
state of putrefaction, when it becomes too dry or too 
moist, producing the primary rudiments ; and these 
again, by metamorphosis, a caterpillar, which, when 
grown to its full size, is metamorphosed into an aurelia 
{pupa)y a butterfly, or a common fly. “ Bees,” he 
subjoins, “ wasps, hornets, or butterflies, and whatever 




Other animals are generated by metamorphosis from a 
creeping insect, are said to be the offspring of chance, 
and therefore never to keep up their species. But 
the lion or cock are never produced spontaneously or 
by chance. In the generation by metamorphosis, 
animals are fashioned as it were by the impression of 
a seal, or framed in a curious mould, all the matter 
of which they consist being transformed 

Goedart, a later naturalist of eminence, both falls 
into the foolish fancy of supposing that the form of 
the human face can be traced in the chrysalis, of 
which he has actually given a figure in his plates, 
as Rtjaumur has done after him ; and also tells us, 
“ that wherever the legs are situated in the cater- 
pillar, there is placed the back of the insect which is 
to arise by transmutation; and, on the contrary, 
where the back of the caterpillar was, there are the 
legs in the insect to be produced from it. This 
metamorphosis,” he adds, “ is performed in a short 
space of time, so that it may be distinctly seen ; be- 
cause, immediately after shedding its skin, this change 
appears to the eyet-’’ 

Had this most absurd and untrue doctrine passed 
into oblivion, or become obsolete, we should have 
passed it by in silence ; but as, like many of the 
theories of former *ages, it often meets us even in 
modern books J, where we might least expect to find 
it, we deemed it proper to give it in the language of 
two of its most eminent advocates, which Swammer- 
dam justly says contains almost as many errors as 
words. The best method of opposing and over- 
turning error being the simple explanation of the 
truth, we snaii proceed to describe the form and 

* Harvey, de General. Anim., Exercit. xlv. 
f De Insectis, Exp. 77. 

* Sec our quotation from Goring and Pritchard; p. 286. 





structure of pupas, rather than stop to refiite cir- 
cumstantially the preceding theory of Harvey and 
Goedart. 

In the pupa state, then, we may remark, that the 
legs, wings, and other external appendages of the 
insect, are, in the greater number of instances, closely 
folded up and enveloped by an external covering, 
usually of a membranous structure, and differing 
considerably both from the skin of the larva and from 
that of the perfect insect. It is as different, indeed, 
as the winter envelope of the bud of a tree is from 
the bark or from the cuticle of a leaf. The angular 
forms exhibited in some chrysalides, are for the pur- 
pose of encasing particular limbs, &c. of the insect 
which Providence has not seen meet to fold down 
smoothly to the body. The spines, hooks, and hairs, 
again, which are also of occasional occurrence, and 
which Goedart strangely enough mistook for feet*, 
are manifestly for aiding the animal in casting its old 
skin, as has been explained in a preceding page; 
while the grooves, ridges, and other markings, are 
the indications of the various members of the insects 
folded up, or otherwise disposed under them. 

As we have shown all the parts of the perfect insect 
contained in the caterpillar, so these can be much 
more easily exhibited in the pupa, particularly when 
near its final change ; for in more early periods the 
substance is so soft and pulpy — almost fluid indeed 
— that it would be next to impossible to develop 
them artificially. In some pupae the parts can even 
be seen through the membranous envelope, which in 
other cases requires, for this purpose, to be removed. 
In order to exhibit this, we shall select a few instances 
in which the facts may be readily verified, by those 
who will take the trouble of breeding the insects. 

The first we shall advert to is that of the chame- 
* Goedart, de Insectis, 77. 



leon fly {Stratiomys chameleori), whose singular 
larva we formerly described When this draws near 
the period of its transformation, it leaves the water, 
betaking itself to the adjacent bank, or to the plants 
which float on the water, creeping up so as to leave 
only a part of its tail submersed. In this position 
it remains, contracting itself by degrees in a manner 
scarcely perceivable, and losing all power of loco- 
motion. The internal portion of the tail at the same 
time separates gradually and insensibly from the 
exterior skin, becoming greatly contracted ; and, ga- 
thering into three or four curvatures, the extremity is 
thereby left empty. Into this space the air penetrates 
and soon fills the place previously occupied by the 
body, which is now contracted to one-third of its 
former size. When the air is prevented by too much 




A, Pupa of diameleon fly, with the lid of the pnpariuxn raised. 
B, the same maRiiifled, and the puparium laid open to shew the 
embryo fly. C, tlie embryo fly magfnified : — a a, antennae ; b 6, 
the eyes; c, sucker; d d, first pair of leffs ; <? e, second pair; 
//, the wings folded up ; gh u rings of the body j A A, breathing- 
tubes. 





moisture from entering and distending the «kin, it 
shrivels up; but this occurs seldom. If the old skin, 
now become detached and forming a tubular enve- 
lope, be cut open, the pupa will be brought into view, 
exhibiting the parts of the future fly neatly folded 
down upon the body, as may be seen in the figure. 

This is one of the larvae which Swammerdam ob- 
served to cast, along with its external skin, the lining 
of the intestines, and breathing-tubes likewise, which, 
he remarks, “ is very singular, and amazingly shows 
the miracles of God, teaching at the same time how 
the former body is entirely cast off and renewed 
The pupa, when exposed in the preceding manner, is 
of a bright green colour, interspersed with white 
transparent particles, and the spiracles of the wind- 
pipe glittering like pearls. 

When the pupa of the lappit moth {Gastropacha 
quercifolia) is disengaged from the cocoon, it has 
much the appearance of an Egyi^tian mummy, or an 
infant in the old-fashioned swaddling bands. The 
feet are crossed over the breast, and folded closely 
down nearly in the same manner as in the instance 
of the chameleon fly just mentioned ; but the wings 
are compressed into a very small compass. This 
appears the more remarkable as the wings of the 
moth are large and conspicuous, and so like the 
withered leaf of an oak, both in form and colour, that 
the insect would readily impose upon a careless 
observer. It is, we believe, the only British example 
of what have been popularly termed leaf insects, — 
which have given origin to the fanciful and untenable 
theory of intentional deception on the part of Provi- 
dence. It was by opening one of these pupae that 
R(?aumur first discovered the various sheaths appro- 
priated to the feet, the antennae, and the wings ; the 
sheath of the suck^ (haustellum) being wanting, as it 
* Bibl. Nat. vol. ii. p. 54. 

 


is obsolescent in the moth. It is furnished, however, 
with a peculiar horn or projection on the forehead, 
—the palpi — which the theorists to whom we have 
alluded might term its leaf stalk. 



a. Pupa of lappit moth, under side of the moth, with its 

feet folded up. c, side view of the same. 

We can demonstrate the same position still more 
obviously in the chrysalis of a butterfly, — ^for ex- 
ample, in that of the peacock {Vanessa Jo), whose ca- 
terpillars feed on the nettle. This chrysalis is an- 
gular like the others of the genus, — the two termi- 
nating angles encasing the eyes, and the four lateral 
ones the marginal folds of the wings, the contour of 
which is disposed on what may be called the shoulder 
of the chrysalis (Ptero-theca, Kirby). The legs, an- 
tennae, and sucker, are folded down longitudinally 
upon the breast, very similarly to what occurs in the 
moth just described. When the membranous cover- 
ing, which is thinner but more firm and elastic than 
Indian paper, has been carefully removed, — selecting 
for this operation an advanced period of the chrysalis, 
— the several members of the butterfly may be seen 



folded up in the manner we have here indicated. 
The wings are still covered with moisture, so that the 
powdery down which clothes them is scarcely visible, 
and they have not yet assumed their beautiful colours 
and elegant markings, but are of a dusky ash-grey. 
The legs, however, are already so firm that the insect 
moves them about, and also coils up its sucker, and 
plays its antennae. It is worthy of remark, that the 




a, under side of the clirjsalis of the peacock butterfly. the 
wines and antennae traced out from the same, c, the perfect in* 
sect t Vanessa lo) fully developed* 



ixtecabmi^e which i^overs the more prominentl|c exposed 
parts, such as the legs, is considerably thicker than the 
other portions Our description will be rendered 
more intelligible by the preceding figures. 

It will obviously appear from these details, in what 
manner superficial observations led to the fancy of 
one insect being on a sudden miraculously metamor- 
phosed or transmuted into another. Those, indeed, 
who persuaded themselves that a morsel of tainted 
beef, or a bit of rotten wood, could, by some inexpli- 
cable chemistry, grow into limbs, wings, eyes, and all 
the other parts of an insect, with its admirable orga- 
nization of muscles, nerves, and digestive apparatus, 
had no difficulty to overcome in believing that the 
green pulpy mass of a chrysalis could be transmuted 
into the light airy wings of a butterfly: — nay, they con- 
sidered the matter as proved, and admired the sup- 
posed metamorphosis, without giving themselves the 
trouble of investigating whether it was real or possi- 
ble t- Accurate observation, founded on the princi- 
ples of the Baconian philosophy, gradually put to 
flight the reveries of those who (to use the words of 
Harvey) “ philosophize by traduction, who are not a 
whit wiser than the inanimate books through which 
they come at their ill-digested notions J.” Yet this 
distinguished physiologist, though he could so express 
himself, occasionally struck upon the very sand-bank 
of which he here warns us to take care ; perhaps in 
consequence of a cause shrewdly and profoundly 
assigned for philosophical errors by Des Cartes, in 
his Essay on Method, who says, “ I was always of 
opinion, that more truth is to be found in those 
reasonings which men make use of in the common 
affairs of life, whose bad success may prove a kind ot‘ 
punishment for their reasoning ill, than those which 
* Swammerdam, vol. li. p. 17 . 

t Reaumur, vol. i. p. 350. f Harvey, De Gen. An., Exer. 44. 






some idle doctor, cooped up in his study, has in- 
vented, that conduce nothing to the ease and happi- 
ness of life, and from which he expects no other ad- 
vantage unless that of reaping so much the greater 
harvest of empty glory from his arguments ; as they 
contain less of truth and common sense, on account 
of the extraordinary strength of genius and applica- 
tion requisite to give an imposing air to such ab- 
surdities.** 

It was the decided opinion of Swammerdam that 
the several transformations of insects, particularly the 
change from the egg to the caterpillar, and from the 
pupa to the perfect insect, are chiefly effected by the 
evaporation of the superabundant fluids. Thus he 
tells us that the nit, or egg of the louse {Pediculus 
kiimanus), is nothing more than the insect itself, 
which only requires the evaporation of the surround- 
ing moisture and the casting of the old skin, to bring 
it to its perfect form *, It is not a little surprising 
that so very accurate a naturalist should never have 
thought of investigating the truth of such an opinion 
by experiment. That he neglected this precaution, is 
an instance, among thousands more, of the imperfec- 
tion of human studies ; for his very first trial would 
have demonstrated the error, which pervades every 
page of his great work. He was evidently misled 
into the opinion by perceiving how fluid the contents 
of an egg or of a pupa are when opened previous to 
their change, and how dry the insect is upon its 
evolution. 

It is much more surprising to find Kirby and 
Spence repeating the same, or nearly the same opi- 
nion, at the very time, too, when they are in the act 
of quoting the experiments of Rt5aumur, by which it 
is refuted, though the great experimenter himself mis- 
interpreted them. “ If you open a pupa,** say they, 
^ Swammerdam, passim. 





“ soon after its assumption of that state, you will find 
its interior filled with a milky fluid, in the midst of 
which the rudiments of its future limbs and organs, 
themselves almost as fluid, swim. Now the end to 
be accomplished during the pupa’s existence is, the 
gradual evaporation of the watery parts of this fluid, 
and the developement of the organs of the enclosed 
animal by the absorption and assimilation of the resi- 
duum*.” The evaporation, however, is so very 
inconsiderable, that it is evidently only of secondary 
consequence. 

When the great quantity of fluid in the body of thp 
chrysalis is taken into consideration, we must infer 
that if it were evaporated to any extent, the insect 
would be reduced to a mere shadow. We are dis- 
posed, therefore, to agree with Rt^aumur in thinking 
it more probable that the fluids of pupte become 
united to the more solid parts, in the same way 
as the blood and lymph in oui* own bodies go 
to the extension or to the repair of our bones and 
muscles. To put this to the test of experiment, 
Reaumur, in the month of J uly, accurately weighed 
two chrysalides the instant they were disencumbered 
of the sloughs of the larvae. The lightest weighed a 
trifle less than 18, and the heavier a trifle less than 
19 grains. Putting them aside separately, with a 
note of their respective weights, he re-weighed them 
every two or three days for sixteen days successively, 
that is, till they were transformed into perfect insects. 
On the last day, the lighter weighed more than 17, 
and the heavier more than 18 grains ; consequently 
the fluid evaporated during this peried did not amount 
to a grain, perhaps not to more than f of a grain. On 
weighing the insects themselves which issued from 
these pupa, together with the cast slough, the weight 
was not sensibly diflerent. The fluid, therefore, 
* Introd. iii, 262. 



which escapes by what is termed insensible perspi- 
ration, is not so great as might have been supposed. 
To ascertain what it was, Reaumur enclosed several 
chrysalides, whose envelope seemed very dry, hi se- 
parate glass tubes, terminating at one end in a bulb, 
and at the other hermetically sealed. He kept these 
in a temperature of from 14° to 15° of his own 
thermometer, corresponding to 63° — 65° Fahr. ; and 
in a few days minute drops of water appeared on the 
sides of the tube, which rolled down into the bulb 
in form of a larger drop — not “ eight or ten large 
drops,’* as Kirby and Spence, by some oversight, 
have stated 

It would certainly be considered a strange and 
untenable doctrine to maintain that it is the evapo- 
ration produced from the egg by the heat of the in- 
cubating mother, which causes the development of 
the chick in the egg ; yet this is precisely similar to 
what is maintained by Swammerdam, Kirby, and 
Spence, — the chief difference being, as Reaumur ob- 
serves, that the chick has obvious organs for appro- 
priating the nutriment contained in the egg, while the 
insect in the pupa is surrounded, and, as it were, 
bathed by the fluid, whose passage into the interior 
vessels we cannot trace by the eye t- That they do 
find their way thither, the experiments above recorded 
unanswerably demonstrate. 

The pupae of insects, though they, in most in- 
stances, cease from locomotion, and appear torpid, 
are by no means really so ; for it would be no less 
incorrect to look upon them in such a light, than to 
consider an ox torpid when reclining in a meadow to 
ruminate and digest the grass he had just been de- 


• Reaumur, vol. i. p.S^S, “ Une goutte beaucoup plus grosse j” 
and Kirby and Spence, Intro, iil. 262, 
t Mem, yol, i, p, 362; &c. 






vouling. This is, in fact, the nearest analogy which 
occurs to us among the other classes of animals ; 
for the pupa, though it does not chew the cud like 
the ox, assuredly rests for the purpose of digesting or 
(if the term be preferred) of assimilating the cruder 
fluids stored up by the caterpillar, and forming or 
perfecting therefrom the organs and members of the 
mature insect 

Some pupaB have a slight motion, particularly of 
the lower parts of the body, and a few others differ 
little from the perfect insect, continuing to move and 
feed ; but the greater number remain apparently mo- 
tionless. That they have internal though impercep- 
tible motions, however, is proved by their possessing 
similar organs of respiration with caterpillars and 
perfect insects. We have adverted, in a former page, 
to the eighteen spiracles which communicate with 
the double windpipe of caterpillars, and the same ap- 
paratus is always found in chrysalides, situated on 
the sides of the abdominal rings. This we think 
might have convinced such distinguished observers 
as Lyonnet andMuschenbrok, that the most quiescent 
pupae could not exist without breathing. 




0 , Chrysalis of Oonepteryx Rhamni. 6, pupa of Lariafascelina, 
Cf pupa of Spkifue Ligwtri. 

* J. R. 






m 

Reaumur and De Geer proved this position by 
numerous experiments. When a chrysalis, for in- 
stance, is suspended by a thread and immersed in oil 
up to the tip of the wing-cases, it does not seem to 
be much injured, and the perfect insect is disclosed 
in due time. If respiration, therefore, be essential to 
the life of the chrysalis, it appears as if it could exist 
with at least the greater number of its spiracles ob- 
structed ; but this does not happen with a chrysalis 
just formed, which always dies. By immersing the 
whole chrysalis in oil, it is certainly killed ; and even 
by immersing its head downwards as far as the first 
pair of spiracles situated near the head. This seems to 
indicate accordingly that this first pair is more essen- 
tial to the insect than all the rest ; and in other ex- 
periments it is also found to emit a much greater 
quantity of air by this first pair* It seems of much 
importance in such experiments to attend to the age 
of the pupa ; for when near the change the function 
of respiration is carried on more feebly, and at length 
nearly ceases. 

Besides the decisive experiments of immersion in 
oil, Rtfaumur placed pupee of various species in the 
exhausted receiver of an air-pump, and at every 
fresh stroke of the piston their bodies both bulged 
out and became elongated : because, as he inferred, 
the envelope is not pervious to the air contained in 
the body, and the spiracles do not allow of its escape 
with sufficient rapidity to keep pace with the ex- 
haustion of the receiver ; — contrary to what happens 
when caterpillars are subjected to the same circum- 
stances. Varying his experiments, he placed in the 
exhausted receiver a vessel containing water deprived 
of its air, and in this plunged a chrysalis, keeping 
it immersed by means of a weight attached by a 
thread. At the two or three first strokes of the pis- 
ton, bubbles of air appeared at each of the spiracles, 



idsum^ by jets, ^fld a few smaller bubbles over the 
body of the chrysalis, probably from not taking the 
precaution afterwards suggested by Bonnet, of 
moistening it before immersion* 

Upon examining the structure of the spiracles, 
M. Reaumur farther discovered that their mouths are 
furnished with ciliary valves, which are shut when 
the pupa is plunged into water, but opened again 
when it is taken out. This circumstance accounts 
for the swelling of the body under the exhausted 
receiver of the air-pump, for it may be supposed the 
animal would closely shut the valves when it felt the 
air forcibly extracted from its body. It is remarkable, 
however, that though the shutting of the valves pre- 
vents the entrance of water, it has not the power of 
excluding oil ; because, as Reaumur conjectures, 
it is not in the ordinary course of its nature exposed 
to such an accident, and therefore Providence made 
no provision for itf. It may be recollected that the 
larvae of the cheese-fly and of blow-flies are provided 
with a sort of valve with which they can cover such 
of their spiracles as become immersed in any greasy 
matter J, 



Spiracles of pupae, a, the valve open ; 6 , tbe same shut. 


In the aquatic pupa of the ringed China-mark 
moth {Hydrocampa stratiotata, Stephens) De Geer 
? Bonnet, CEuvres, voL iii., p. 39, &c. f Mem. i, 407, &c. 

I See page 205, 


found three pairs of conspicuous spiracles, occupying 
the second, third, and fourth rings, and placed on 
cylindrical tubes. It is worthy of remark, that the 
caterpillar spins a double cocoon, the outer of a thin, 
and the inner of a close texture ; and when the re- 
spiratory gills of the larva are cast otf with the old 
skin, the insect knows how to surround itself with an 
atmosphere of air in the midst of the water where it 
resides, the inner cocoon being impervious to 
moisture. How it contrives to renew this air when 
vitiated is not yet known, but that it derives it from 
the water is proved by its always dying if removed 
in^) the air *. 

We have formerly described the beautiful appara- 
tus for respiration in the larvae of the gnat family 
(CHlicicidd, Latr.) t ; but this is rivalled by the organs 
destined for the same purpose in their pupa?, which 
organs are situated in the head instead of the tail. The 
pupa, ip the same way, changes its position in the water, 
swimiping with its head upwards instead of down- 
wards as before. To enable it to maintain this position, 
the pupa is farther provided with a fin-tail^ Uke a fish, 
by which it can move itself at pleasure in the water. 
It no longer, indeed, requires to take food, but air is 
indispensable to it ; and water being so unstable, 
were the pupa incapable of swimming, it w'ould sel- 
dom escape being drowned. Its respiratory appara- 
tus consists of two tubes, situated behind the head, 
on what may be called the shoulders. They are of a 
funnel shape, and project very sensibly, though we 
should not be disposed to compare them, as Reaumur 
does, to asses’ ears. The transparency of this pupa 
renders it easy to see in it the parts of the gnat. 

An apparently more simple, though no less re- 
markable, apparatus for respiration, was observed by 
Reaumur in the pupa of a small crane-fly (Tipula^ 
* DeQeer, Mem. i. 531. f 




This consisted in a singfle tube, two or 
three times longer than the body of the pupa, and as 
fine as a hair. The point of this hair always remains 
above or at the surface of the water, for the purpose 
of carrying on respiration, till the perfect fly is ready 
to emerge from the water. 



a, Tipula, f h, telescopic-tailed pupa of the same. 

c, front view of the pupa of the common gnat (^Culex pipient), 

d, side view of the same. 

In another genus of this family the external organs 
of respiration are very elegant in form, resembling 
more the fibrillae of minute aquatic mosses (Coti- 
fervoidem) than the appendages of an animal. The 
larva of this insect is well known to anglers, under 
the name of the blood worm; though we do not find 
it mentioned by Walton, Brookes, Best, Sir H. Davy, 
or any of the other writers upon angling. It is 
usually less than half an inch long, flat, and jointed 
like the wire worm, with several small appendages at 
the tail, which appear to be breathing- tubes, of the 




nature of gills ; for the larva lives under water in 
streams and ditches, enclosed for the most part in a 
tube of earth. It is of a fine crimson colour, the 
origin of its popular name ; but it becomes more 
dark and opaque in the pupa state. 

The appendages which are thrown off by the larva 



o, Chironomus plumoms. 6, larva of the same, called the 
blood worm, c d, pupae of the same, maguified to sheiv their 
plumed spiracles. 


 


are replaced by a brush-like bunch of bristles, the 
points of which, it is probable, have the power of 
extracting air from the water ; and a similar coronet 
is produced on each side of the head, disposed in a 
five-rayed star of plumes. It is not a little remark- 
able, that a double envelope for the feet projects 
from each side of the breast, a circumstance which 
seems peculiar to this insect. In a few days it is 
transformed into a pretty gnat, with feathered an- 
tennas fChironomus pluTnosuSy Meigen). 

Such are a few examples of the beautiful con- 
trivances for carrying on the important process of 
respiration in that stage of life during which few 
insects take any food. Considering the great diffi- 
culties presented to us in the investigation of this 
subject, we may well wonder that experiments have 
elucidated and proved so many facts. We are still 
ignorant, however, of the nature of the effects pro- 
duced by respiration on the fluids of pupae. 






Transformation of Fnpm into perfect Insects. 


The period which pupae require to come to maturity 
seems to depend mainly on temperature and size, 
though there are several other causes at work appa- 
rently inscrutable to human research. Those who 
adopt, after Swammerdam, the untenable theory of 
evaporation being all that is requisite to bring an 
insect to maturity, tell us that these two circum- 
stances will account for all the phenomena ; but we shall 
immediately have to record several curious facts quite 
at variance with such a conclusion. “ It is plain,'* 
say Kirby and Spence, “ that this necessary transpi- 
ration, other circumstances being alike, must take 
place sooner in a small than in a lar^e pupa. Since 
the more speedy or more tardy evaporation of fluids 
depends upon their exposure to a greater or less 
degree of heat, we might, d priorU conclude that 
pupai exposed to a high temperature would sooner 
attain maturity, even though larger in bulk, than 
others exposed to a low one : and this is the fact. 
The pupa of a large moth, which has assumed that 
state in the early part of summer, will often disclose 
the perfect insect in twelve or fourteen days ; while 
that of an ichneumon, not one-hundredth part of its 
size, that did not enter this state till late in autumn, 
will not appear as a fly for seven or eight months. 
But this is not the whole. The very same insect, 
according as it has become a pupa at an earlier or a 
later period of the year, will at one time live but 





a few weeks, at another several months in that 
state 

But though we admit all these facts, which are 
known to every naturalist, and too well ascertained 
to be denied, we submit that the inference of evapo- 
ration being the exclusive effect, is, upon the whole, 
inadmissible. Reaumur, though he does not abso- 
lutely state his belief in such an inference, shows by 
his reasoning that he was strongly disposed to adopt 
notions closely bordering upon it. The theoretical 
doctrine, it may be perceived, takes for granted that 
evaporation is the only result of heat ; overlooking 
the no less obvious effect of expansion, besides 
the disposition it produces in chemical principles to 
combine or be decomposed. But these are only 
spme of its inanimate results, which would occur 
npon material objects independently of life ; whereas 
in living bodies, what may be called chemical changes 
are frequently very difierent from what can be effected 
out of the living body, and consequently we cannot 
trace all the effects produced by heat in the two great 
internal processes of secretion and consolidation. 
In detailing, therefore, the interesting experiments 
of Reaumur on pupee, which he subjected to different 
degrees of heat and cold, we shall not adopt his in- 
ferences respecting evaporation. The accuracy of 
the experiments themselves is unquestionable. 

Reasoning from some of the facts above stated, 
Reaumur thought it might be possible to hasten or 
retard the exclusion of insects from their pupae, in 
the ^an^e way as some flowers are forced to blow 
early, and others kept back from blowing at their due 
season ; apdhe commenced a series of experiments to 
ascertain the facts. In January, 1734, he accordingly 
placed p g^eat number of the chrysalides of moths 
and bnUe^ies of various species in one of the royal 
^ f Imr. iii. 263. ... 





hot-houses at Paris. His success was equal to his 
expectations, for the insects appeared in the middle 
of winter, some in ten or twelve days, and others in 
from three to six weeks from the time of their removal 
into a warmer atmosphere. Five or six days, indeed, 
seemed to be equal to a month of natural temperature. 
A week was even equal to a month for the chrysalides 
which naturally required the temperature of mid- 
summer to bring them to maturity; because the arti- 
ficial temperature was both high and more uniform, 
particularly during the night. The butterflies and 
moths thus forced into premature appearance, were 
equally full grown, healthy and lively, with those 
produced in the usual way ; and the females deposited 
their eggs and soon afterwards died, as they always 
do in summer in the open fields. The life of these 
insects was, therefore, shortened by some months. 

The following November, Reaumur tried a similar 
experiment, which was consequently begun two 
months earlier than the former ; and the insects were 
also evolved proportionally sooner. Those, for ex- 
ample, which ought naturally to have appeared in 
May, he obtained in December. In butteries which 
have a double brood, such experiments become still 
more interesting to the physiologist. The beautiful 
swallow-tailed butterfly (Papilio Machaoii) is one of 
those which are double brooded, the first going into 
chrysalis in July, and the butterfly appearing in 
thirteen days ; — the second, in the autumn, and the 
butterfly not appearing till the succeeding June. But 
if placed in an artificial temperature of due warmth, 
and properly regulated, the second brood will appear 
in about the same time as the first. 

Reaumur tried some experiments, still more inge- 
nious, with chrysalides, which were suggested by the 
effects produced by birds sitting upon their eggs in 
order to hatch them. He concluded, that if chry- 





saUdes were placed under a sitting bird, they woul4 
be matured in a sinular way as he had found them 
to be the green-house. The difficulty was to pre- 
vent them from being bruised and crushed by the 
bird, as they are much softer and more easily injured 
than eggs. This he obviated by enclosing them ip 
hollow glass balls about the size of a hen's egg, which 
at the same time as readily deceived the bird as a piece 
of chalk passes with the eggs set to hatch under a hen. 
The chrysalides which he first tried were those of the 
small tortoiseshell butterfly {Vanessa Urticce), eight 
of which, attached to square pieces of paper, were sus- 
pended within the glass egg as near to each other as 
possible, and placed under a hen on the 22d of June. 
The aperture of the glass egg was closed, but in such 
a manner as to leave a communication with the ex- 
ternal air. The effect of the heat manifested itself 
the first day, in the moisture exhaled from the chrysa- 
lides, all the interior of the glass being covered with 
minute drops of water, which he allowed to evaporate 
by unstopping the glass, lest the moisture might spoil 
his experiment. When it was dry, he replaced it 
under the hen, and he observed no moisture exhaled 
on the following days, the chief transpiration having 
occurred in the first twenty-four hours. In about 
four days the first butterfly that, perhaps, was ever 
hatched under a hen made its appearance. He found 
four more evolved next morning, and one on the suc- 
ceeding day, the 28th of J une. Those of the same 
brood which were contained in a nurse-box placed in 
a window, did not appear before the 5th, and some 
ppt before the 8th of J uly, which was ten or twelve 
days later. Two out of eight of the chrysalides which 
had been enclosed in the glass egg died. He made 
a similar experiment with the same success upon 
several c^salides of the peacock butterfly (Vanessa 
Jo). With the pupae also of twp-winged flies and 






other insects, he tried all the preceding etperirheiits 
with very similar results. The heat cortimuhicated to 
the glass egg was very considerable, amounting to 
31® or 32® of Re^aumtir’s thermometer % or about 100® 
Fahr. It was not surprising, therefore, that some Of 
the pupae perished : we think it more wonderful that 
any of them survived. 

Rt^aumur suggests, from these experiments, that 
those who are curious in obtaining the productions 
of summer during winter, may add to the gaiety 
of their forced flowers, by forcing a brood of butter- 
flies into life to sport amongst them ; and he records 
an instance in which a friend of his at Strasburgh in 
this way hatched, by means of a stove, all the pupae 
he could obtain. We have in several instances suc- 
ceeded in obtaining butterflies in winter, by keeping 
chrysalides under glasses on a mantel -piece in a room 
with a constant tire ; but during the winter of 1829-30, 
all which were thus kept died, probably ftom the firCs 
required by the unusual severity of the season being 
too great for them. Several, on the other hand, 
which we found on walls, and which had been ex- 
posed to all tlie rigours of the winter, were disclosed 
in due lime in a perfect state. 

Having thus ascertained that heat produced the 
effects which he had anticipated, Reaumur next tried an 
opposite series of experiments, by placing chrysalides 
in diminished temperatures. He accordingly en- 
closed in nurse-boxes a number of pupae fornied in 
August 1733, and in the following January placed 
them in a coal-cellar : their natural period of appear- 
ing in the perfect state being July 1734. During the 
hot months of this year he wetit from time to time to 
see whether these pupae indicated an approaching 
change, but they remained in their original state 
during July and August, and continued so till the SUC- 
* E^aumuf; Mem* vol. ii* p* 17* 





ceedin^ August, 1735, at the time he was writing this 
account, when he found them still living and healthy, 
but not transformed into perfect insects. We are not 
aware whether he ever published the termination of 
the experiment 

In another instance, he placed in a coal-cellar the 
pupee of the emperor moth {Saturnia pavonid)j about 
a fortnight or three weeks before the usual time of 
their evolution ; and they were in consequence retarded 
to five or six weeks later than those of the same 
brood which he had kept in his cabinet. The chry- 
salides of the large garden white butterfly (Pontia 
Braasicee)^ when placed in the cellar in January, 
appeared two months later than those in the tem- 
perature of the atmosphere. A still more decisive 
experiment was made with the chrysalides of the 
small tortoiseshell butterfly (Vanessa UriioB), which 
require fourteen days of summer heat to mature 
them, and which, when hatched under a hen, had 
appeared in four days. Some of these he placed in 
the cellar the 12th of June, and they did not appear 
till the 2d and 3d of August, — about six weeks later 
than in their natural temperature. 

Reaumur, still haunted by the notion of the ex- 
halation of moisture being the only cause of the 
development of chrysalides, tried upon them similar 
ingenious experiments to those which he had success- 
fully made upon eggs, by varnishing them in order to 
prevent the escape of moisture. His experiments 
upon varnishing eggs have led to a most useful dis- 
covery, now extensively acted upon in practice for 
the preservation of eggs all over Europe. Those 
upon chrysalides, however, were not conducted with 
the same degree of acute accuracy. To prevent the 
chrysalides from coming to maturity at the usual 
time, by preventing the exhalation of their moisture, 
he conceived it would be sufficient to varnish over 





the envelope, taking care to leave the respiratory 
spiracles unobstructed. But it is most obvious, that 
the greater part of all the evaporation which occurs 
must be through the spiracles, in the same way as a 
large proportion of the moisture of the human body 
passes off by the breath. The result, however, of 
R«5aumur’s experiments with the varnished chrysalides 
was, that they were developed several weeks later 
tlian when placed in their natural circumstances, — 
which proves, we think, that the envelope has consi- 
derable influence on the transformatory process going 
on in the interior, even were we to leave the trans- 
piration of moisture out of the question 

We may remark, that the results of these experi- 
ments afford interesting illustrations of the torpidity 
of both the larger animals and of plants. In the 
United States of America, for example, many species 
of animals which become torpid in Pennsylvania, and 
other more northern parts of the country, remain 
lively in the Carolinas, and other southern parts of 
the continent t. Mr. Gough found that the dormouse 
may be prevented from becoming torpid by supplying 
it plentifully with food; and Dr. Reeve, of Norwich, 
observed the same circumstance in a hedge-hog, 
which being kept warm and well fed, showed no dis- 
position to become torpid even during severe wea- 
ther J. Pallas had a tame marmot, also, which having 
become very fat during the summer, showed no dis- 
position to torpidity, though exposed to a tempera- 
ture which threw the whole species into a torpid 
state in that part of Siberia, In the vegetable king- 
dom, again, it is a very common phenomenon to see 
plants revive after exposure to severe frosts. Mr. 

* Reaumur, Mem. vol. ii. p. 56. 
f Barton, in Amer. Phil. Trans, vol. iv. 

J Reeve on Torpidity, p, 73. 



Gough made some ingenious experiments in proof of 
this upon several plants, such as the small duck^s 
meat (Lemna minor) y and the viviparous fescue 
grass (Festuca vwipara)y which led to the conclusion 
that they could accommodate themselves without 
perishing to the vicissitudes of variable situations*. 

We observed a no less marked instance than those 
recorded by Mr. Gough, in a plant of the geranium, 
named Prince Leopold (Pelargonium macranthon. 
Sweet), the whole of whose leaves were so hard 
frozen as to break rather than bend. We immersed 
the whole of the plant in cold water, a few degrees 
above freezing, till it was thawed, and it recovered 
so completely, that not a single frosted spot appeared 
on any of the leaves t. 

Several extraordinary facts relating to insects 
prove that temperature alone will not account for the 
variations of the periods of their disclosure. It is 
stated by Marsham, that Mr. Jones of Chelsea, in one 
of his excursions, caught a female of the spotted 
muslin moth (Diaphora mendicuy Stephens), which 
laid a number of eggs, and he fed thirty-six of the 
caterpillars hatched from these, till they spun their 
tocoons and became pupae. At the usual season 
only a third of these produced moths, and he con- 
cluded the rest were dead : but, to ^^is utter astonish- 
ment, twelve more made their appearance the second 
season ; and the remaining twelve were evolved the 
third season, as jierfect and healthy as those which 
had been first produced J. 

The same extraordinary fact has been obsehred in 
the pupae of the small egger-moth {Eriogaster la- 
ne8tris)y the greater number of those which spin up 
in summer appearing in the succeeding February ; 

* Manchester Trans. f J, R. 

J Linn. Trans, vol. x, p , 402. 





but others of them requiring two, three, and even 
four years* * * § . Meinecken kept several pupse of the 
emperor-moth (Saturnia pavonia) through the winter 
in a room heated daily by a stove, and others in a cpld 
chamber. Some of both these appeared in March, 
and others, though evidently healthy, had not ap- 
peared in J uly t. 

It is certain, however, that this is not the natural 
order of things, even in this species ; for we have 
reared several broods of the species respecting which 
the preceding facts are recorded, without having 
observed them. In a large brood of the small egger 
(Eriogaster lanestris) five or six of the cocoons did 
not produce insects, and we consequently anticipated 
their appearance next year, but we have now kept 
them five years without any change, and therefore 
conclude they are deadj. The inference deduced, 
however, from the facts observed, is very plausible, 
namely, that it is intended by Providence to preserve 
the species : for were all the individuals of a brood to 
appear in the same season, it might happen to be so 
ungenial, particularly in the early months of spring, 
as to destroy them before they could deposit their 
eggs ; whereas, by their appearing in different seasons, 
some of them have the chance of coming forth in 
mild weather §. Yet, perhaps, this may be an unne- 
cessary though ingenious refining upon a final cause : 
for even in the most ungenial spring weather, there 
always occur some fine days, and, further, a brood of 
insects does not all appear on one day, but more usually 
on many successive days, as may be seen by the experi- 
meqts of Reaumur recorded at the beginning of this 

* Scriba, Journ. i., vol. iii. p. 222 ; and Haworth, Lepidopt. 

Brit., vol. i. p. 125. 

f Naturf., vol. viii. p. 143. J J. R. 

§ Kirby and Spence, vol. iii. p. 267. 

2 £ 2 






chapter. In the instance of the clear underwing (JEge- 
ria asiliformis, Stephens), we discovered a brood of 
above a dozen of the pupae in the trunk of a black pop- 
lar; but though, from feeding on the wood of the tree, 
the caterpillars must have been well protected from the 
vicissitudes of the seasons, there was nearly a month 
between the appearance of the first and the last*. 
This, indeed, is so very common an occurrence that 
it is almost superfluous to mention particular in- 
stances. 

The moths just mentioned, we may remark, were 
only observed to appear about noon ; and many 
other insects are known to emerge from the pupa 
only at one particular time of the day, similar to the 
flowers, such as the goat’s-beard {Tragopogon), and 
the night-flowering cereus {Cactus grandijiorus)^ 
which only blow at particular hours. Some insects 
are produced at sunrise, others at noon, and others 
again only at night. Several species are extremely 
regular in their appearance, such as the orange-tip 
butterfly {Poniia Cardamines)^ which is usually seen 
about the end of April, varying but few days in the 
course of many years. The various species, also, of 
May-flies {Ephemerae) are confined in their appear- 
ance to two or three days ; and those observed by 
Reaumur appear at no other time than between 
eight or ten in the evening. Those which we no- 
ticed on the Rhine in August, 1829, began to 
appear at sunset, and before morning were all dead. 
In the great square at Wiesbaden, their bodies were 
so thickly strewn about that it seemed as if a shower 
of snow had fallen during the night, their wings 
being white, and about the size of a broad snow- 
flake t» • 

The pupae of these May-flies, when about to un- 
? J. R. t J. R. 





dergo their transformation, emerge from their suba- 
queous galleries and come to the surface of the 
water. As they must keep their wings dry, the pro- 
cess would appear to be one of considerable aiffi- 
culty ; yet an observer may remark that they perform 
it with the utmost ease. In the instance of the gnat, 
this process of emerging from the water is still more 
conspicuous on account of the difference of form in 
the pupa and the fly. 

About eight or ten days after the larva of a gnat is 
transformed into a pupa, it prepares, generally to- 
wards noon, for emerging into the air, raising itself 
up to the surface so as to elevate its shoulders just 
above the level of the water. It has scarcely got into 
this position for an instant, when, by swelling the 
part of its body above water, the skin cracks between 
the two breathing tubes, and immediately the head of 
the gnat makes its appearance through the rent. 
The shoulders instantly follow, enlarging the breach 
so as to render the extrication of the body compara- 
tively easy. The most important and indeed indis- 
pensable part of the mechanism, is the maintaining 
of its upright position so as not to get wetted, which 
would spoil its wings and prevent it from flying. Its 
chief support is the rugosity of the envelope which it 
is throwing off, and which now serves it as a life-boat 
till it gets its wings set at liberty and trimmed for 
flight. The body of the insect serves this little boat 
for a mast, which is raised in a manner similar to 
moveable masts in lighters constructed for pass- 
ing under a bridge, with this difference, that the 
gnat raises its body in an upright direction from the 
first. “ When the naturalist,” says Reaumur, “ ob- 
serves how deep the prow of the tiny boat dips into 
the water, he becomes anxious for the fate of the 
little mariner, particularly if a breeze ripples the 

2 F 3 






surface, for the least agitation of the air will waft it 
rapidly along, since its body performs the duty of a 
sail as well as of a mast : but as it bears a much 
greater proportion to the little bark than the largest 
sail does to a ship, it appears in great danger of 
being upset ; and once laid on its side, all is over. 
I have sometimes seen the surface of the water 
covered with the bodies of gnats which had perished 
in this way ; but for the most part all terminates 
favourably, and the danger is instantly over*.*’ 
When the gnat has extricated itself all but the tail, 
it first stretches out its two fore-legs t, and then the 
middle pair, bending them down to feel for the 
water, upon which it is able to walk as upon dry 
land, the only aquatic faculty which it retains after 
having winged its way above the element where it 



^ The gnat {Culex pipiens) escaping from the pupa. 

? Mem., vol. iv. p. 613. 

t Kirby and Spence, by mistake, say it ‘‘draws’’ these out of 
their case,'* vol. iii, p. 288. 





spent the first stages of its existence. “ It leaves,* 
says Swammerdam, “ its cast skin on the water 
where it insensibly decays*.” Reaumur doubts 
whether Swammerdam ever actually saw this inte- 
resting transformation. We have seen it twice only. 

The beautiful pupa formed from the blood worm, 
as before described, proceeds in its transformation 
much in the same way as the common gnat. But 
how, it may be asked, can the insect raise its 
shoulders above the surface of the water, than which 
it is specifically heavier, and suspend itself there 
without motion? “ By a most singular and beau- 
tiful contrivance, which,” says Kirby, “ I shall ex- 
plain, the more particularly because it has escaped 
Rt^aumur, and, as far as I know, all other entomo- 
logical observers. The middle of the back of the 
thorax has the property of repelling water, appa- 
rently from being covered with some oily secretion. 
Hence, as soon as the pupa has once forced this 
part of its body above the surface, the water is seen 
to retreat from it on all sides, leaving an oval space 
in the disk, which is quite dry. Now though the 
specific gravity of the pupa is greater than that ot 
water, it is but so very slightly greater, that the mere 
attraction of the air to the dry part of the thorax, 
when once exposed to it, is sufficient to retain it at 
the surface ; just as a small dry needle swims under 
similar circumstances. That this is a true solution 
of the phenomenon, I am convinced by the result of 
several experiments. If, when the pupa is sus- 
pended at the surface, a drop of water be let fall 
upon the dry portion of the thorax, it instantly sinks 
to the bottom t, the thorax, which belongs to the 
heaviest half, being the lowest ; and if the pupa be 

* Part i. p. 156. 

f But, if so, we may ask what has become of the power of the 
thorax to repel water ? J. R. 


 

a^in brought to the sutface, so that the fluid is 
r^elled from its disk, it remains there, without 
enort, as before. Just before the exclusion of the 
fly {Chironomus plumosusy Meigen), the dry part 
of the thorax is seen to split in the middle. The 
air enters, and forms a brilliant stratum, resembling 
quicksilver, between the body of the insect and its 
puparium ; and the former pushing forth its head 
and fore- legs, like the gnat, rests the latter upon the 
water, and in a few seconds extricates itself wholly 
from its envelope*.’’ 

The grubs of several of the four-winged water 
flies (PhryganidtE, Stephens), popularly called 
case worms and caddis worms, construct a remark- 
able apparatus for protecting the pupa during its 
state of inactivity and helplessness. So long as it 
remains in the grub state it can withdraw itself within 
its case of shells, stones, or reed-stems ; but as soon as 
it feels its change approaching, it contrives additional 
security. It weaves, for this purpose, at the entrance 
of its gallery, a grating of its singular sill^, which 
hardens in water and remains indissoluble, as was 
first observed by Vallisnieri. The strong threads 
are made to cross each other, forming a small 
thiekish circular plate of brown silk, which becomes 
as hard as gum, fitting exactly into the opening, 
and placed a little within the margin. One of these 
gratings (described by De Geer) is pierced all over 
with holes, disposed in concentric circles, separated 
by ridges running from the centre to the circum- 
ference, though not quite so regularly as the spokes 
of a wheel. Other ridges, again, are made to tra- 
verse the concentric rays, following the course of the 
circles of holes, in such a manner as to form com- 
partments, each having a hole in its centre f. Reau- 
mur found that these holes were for the purpose of 
? Intr., iii. p. 290. f 1^® Geer, Mem,, vol. ii. p. 519 — 45. 






breathing, by admitting a current of fresh water, 
effected, no doubt, by the spiracles of the pupa ; and 
he actually saw the grate-work in alternate motion 
from convex to concave, as the water passed out 
and in. 

Our motive, however, for introducing a notice of 
these structures is for the purpose of explaining the 
contrivance by which the pupa makes its exit through 
the grating. To effect this, it is provided with a pair 
of curved mandibles, which appear to be applied 
to no other use, for they are thrown off upon its 
transformation into a fly, as was observed by Vallis- 
nieri. These facts may be verified by searching for 
caddis worms during the early spring months, as 
most of them are transformed in the first part of the 
summer. 



a. Pupa of a case-fly (Phryganea). v d, grate-works of the 
same at the openings of the cases, greatly magnifled. b, the 
perfect insect. 


In the common blow-fly (Musca carnaria)^ and 
many of the same family, the exit of the perfect 
insect from the pupa case is effected by a very dif- 
ferent, but no less admirable contrivance. The head 
of the perfect fly, it may be remarked, is hard and 
unyielding ; but in the pupa it is soft, and capable 



 

of great distension. When the insect, therefore, 
becomes desirous of escaping from its prison, it 
blows out the extensile part of its head like a bladder, 
alternately pushing it forward in the form of a muzzle, 
and swelling it out at the sides in the form of a ball, 
till it succeeds in rupturing the pupa case. As this 
envelope is too opaque to see the process distinctly 
on the outside, it is necessary to open the pupa just 
before its transformation, when the movements be- 
come obvious. The same mechanism occurs in the 
pupae of some of the fibrous gall flies (Tephritea) , 
for the purpose of dissevering the woody fibres 
which imprison the insects. In the instance of the 
thistle gall fly (Tephritis Cardui)^ Reaumur found 
that those kept in his study often became too rigid 
for the insects to force their passage, and after 
making repeated efforts they gave up the task in 
despair and died *. In the open air this accident is 
prevented by the rain moistening the galls. We 
have more than once had occasion to make the same 
remark in the woody galls, such as the bedeguar of 
the rose, in which the flies have to gnaw for them- 
selves a passage, but which they cannot always 
efiect when the galls are kept through the winter in 
a dry roomf. 

In another genus of flies, the pupa does not 
make use of its head, but turns round and employs 
its tail to force a passage. This may be observed 
in the pupa formed from the rat-tailed maggot of 
the common-sewer fly {Erisialis tenax, Fabricius), 
which was observed by Reaumur to push off the lid 
of its pupa case by means of its tail. 

The caterpillar of the clear- wing hawk moth 
{Mgeria asiliformis, Stephens), before going into 
pupa, gnaws away the wood of the poplar tree, 
where it is lodged, till it leaves only a plate of it as 
* Reaumur, iv., Mem. 8. t 






thin as writing-paper. The head of this pupa being 
obtuse, it cannot of course cut through this wooden 
covering, thin as it is, but can only push against it 
till it burst it open, which we have more than once 
seen it actually do*. It is enabled to exert consi- 
derable force in this process, by means of the beauti- 
fully serrated structure of its rings, resembling in this 
tespect the caterpillars of cossms and other wood- 
borers. 



Pupae of Cossus, a, and JEgeria^ Bhewing the serratiiTes of 
their rings. 

Lyonnet justly remarks that in the cosms there 
are sharp points upon the head for the purpose of 
making the first breach, the rest of the body acting 
as a wedge to tear open the cocoon. Professor Peck 
has given a very interesting account of similar pro- 
ceedings in the case of the locust moth (Cossus Ro~ 
binicB, Peck). “ In the silk moth,” he says, “ and 
all others which I have had an opportunity to ob- 
serve, the chrysalis bursts in the cocoon, and the fluid 
which surrounded the new insect in it escaping at the 
same time, so weakens or dissolves the fibre and 
texture of the silkt, that the moth is able to extri- 
cate itself, leaving the chrysalis behind it ; but this is 
liot the manner in the locust moth. After remaining 
till all its parts are fully grown, and it is ready to 
quit its prison, a certain quantity of exercise is ne- 
cessary to break the ligaments which attach the moth 
? J. R. 

f See some observations on this doctrine; Insect Architec- 
ture,” pages 316,317, and 195, 






to the shell of the chrysalis, and to loosen the folds 
of the abdomen. In taking this exercise, it can 
only move the abdomen in various directions; as 
one side of the rings is moved forward, the hooks in 
the serrated lines take hold of the silk and prevent 
their sliding back ; the next flexure brings forward 
the opposite side of the rings, which are prevented 
by the points on that side from slipping back in the 
same manner, and the chrysalis is forced out of the 
slightly-woven extremity of the cocoon, and through 
the silk-lined cavity, till it is protruded for about one- 
third of its length out of the opening in the bark and 
into the air*.” i 

A no less ingenious contrivance for escape was 
observed by Bonnet in one of the leaf-rollers, which 
feeds on the leaves of young ash trees. It rolls up the 
leaf into a cone, and is transformed into a small pupa, 
resembling a grain of oats. The chamber which it 
forms is not only extensive in proportion to the size 
of the insect, but is so very compact, that it does not 
appear in what manner it is to effect its escape. 
Within the capacious chamber of the leaf it hangs 
itself up by two lines, after the manner of a sailor's 
hammock. But, previous to this, it gnaws a cir- 
cular piece half through the leaf, taking care not to 
injure the exterior membrane. In order to render 
this little door easy to be found, the caterpillar, as if 
foreseeing that the blind pupa could not otherwise 
discover it, fixes one of the suspensory threads near 
its margin, guided by which the insect makes its 
exit with the utmost ease, for the head is uniformly 
swung up by the door thread f. 

A very similar proceeding is recorded of the mi- 
nute granary moth (Tinea granella)^ which we 
have before mentioned as destructive to grain. The 

* Peck, quoted by Kirby and Spence. 

+ Bonnet, (Euvres, vol, ii., p. 207. 





eggs being laid on the outside of the grain, the 
entrance of the caterpillar into the interior is not 
larger than a pin’s point, and of course entirely use- 
less as a passage for the moth ; but, before its trans- 
formation into the pupa, it shapes out a door in the 
skin of the grain, so that it may be easily broken open 
from within, while it appears entire on the outside. 
By pushing it accordingly it at once gives way. 

A prospective contrivance of the same kind occurs 
in the economy of a caterpillar which lives on the 
dry pith in the seed heads of the wild teazle fDipsa- 
CU8 sylvestrisj. The hole by which the newly hatched 
caterpillar enters is so minute, that in some hun- 
dreds of teazle heads, containing full-grown ones, 
we have never been able to detect it ; but its subse- 
quent proceedings are easily traced. From the first 
it is not contented with the protection afforded by 
the walls of the seed head, but always spins a gallery 
of thick silk to cover it while feeding, the outside of 
which is generally covered with its ejectamenta. Up 
to the period of its approaching change, the walls of 
the seed head are left quite entire, as it only eats the 
dry pith contained in their cavity ; but through these 
it would be impossible for the moth to make its way, 
inasmuch as it is unprovided with mandibles for 
gnawing. The provident caterpillar, therefore, takes 
care before its change to cut a circular hole into the 
teazle at the end of its own silken gallery, through 
which the nascent moth may find an easy passage. 
Bonnet gives it farther credit for a piece of ingenuity 
which we have not been able to verify. After cutting 
the hole, he tells us, it carefully fortifies it on the out- 
side by amassing the fibres and seeds of the plant in 
a loose manner over the hole, to prevent the intrusion 
of rapacious insects from without ; and he gives a 
very minute detail of his discovery of this fortifica- 





tion** But we have only to examine the arrange- 
ment of the teazle seeds to perceive that he must 
have been mistaken. In a dozen specimens now 
before us we find that, besides gnawing through the 
wall, the insect has eaten about an eighth of an inch 
into the seeds themselves and the chaff which sur- 
rounds them, leaving on the outside the extremities 
untouched, but lining the whole with a slight tissue 
of silk, — the circumstance, no doubt, which misled 
Bonnet. As these are extremely common in the 
vicinity of London, almost two-thirds of the seed 
heads of teazle containing a caterpillar, the pro* 
ceedings of the insect may be easily examined t* 

A similar prospective contrivance occurs in the 
instance of a caterpillar which feeds on the cow 
parsnip (Heraclevm ftpondylivm)^ and makes a cir- 
cular hole in the stem for the exit of the moth. 

In all the preceding instances, the pupa is left to 
effect its extrication by its own unassisted efforts. 
But amidst the variety which claims our admiration 
in the economy of insects, we have to notice pro- 
ceedings no less remarkable in the case of those 
pupae which require extraneous assistance in their 
transformations. An instance of this is mentioned 
by Kirby and Spence, on the authority of the Hon. 
Captain Percy, K.N., who, while he was watching 
some female crane flies (Tipvlte oleract^ee ?) busily 
employed in depositing their eggs amongst the roots 
of grass, saw one quitting her pupa case. She had 
already, by her own efforts, got her head, shoulders, 
and fore-legs disengaged, when two male flies arrived 
to assist in her extrication. They immediately laid 
hold of her pupa case with their anal forceps and hind- 
legs, while with their fore-legs and mouths they 
seemed to push her upwards, moving her backwards 
* Bonnet, (Earres, vol. ii., obs. xix. f J.ft. 






and forwards, and shifting their hold till she was 
entirely extricated, when they left her to recover her 
strength by herself. “ Probably,'* say our authors, 
“ the extreme length of the two pair of hind-legs of 
these animals may render such assistance necessary 
for their extrication*.** We, however, imagitie 
that Captain Percy’s instance was accidental and 
anomalous ; for the insect having already extricated 
her head, shoulders, and fore-legs, all the difficulties 
were surmounted. From the insect being so very 
common, also, the circumstance of such assistance, 
if it did happen, must be matter of frequent ob- 
servation ; but we have witnessed a considerable 
number of several species of this family undergo the 
change without any assistance whatever f. 

The best ascertaitied case of assistance occurs 
among ants, and was first observed by the accurate 
Swedish naturalist De Geer, though the best ac- 
count of it is given by the younger Huber. “ The 
greater part of the pupse,” says he, “ are enclosed in 
a tissue spu i by themselves before their change; 
but they cannot, like other insects, liberate themselves 
from this covering by effecting an opening in it with 
their teeth. They have scarcely the power of mov- 
ing ; their covering is of too compact a texture, and 
formed of too strong a silk, to allow of their tearing 
it without the assistance of the workers. But how do 
these indefatigable attendants ascertain the proper 
moment for this process? If they possessed the fa- 
culty of hearing, we might imagine they knew the tit 
time, from some noise produced in the interior of the 
prison by the insects whose developement has com- 
menced ; but there is no indication favouring this 
opinion ; it is probable they have a knowledge of it 
from some sight movements that take place within, 
which they ascertain through the medium of their 
* Intr. iii. 286. f J. R. 

 

antennee ; for these organs are endowed with a sensi- 
bility, of which it would be difficult to form a just 
idea : whatever it be, they are never deceived. 

“ Let us still follow them in that labour in which 
are displayed a zeal and attachment that would justly 
merit our attention, even were they the real parents 
of these pupae ; how much greater then must be our 
astonishment, when we consider that they bear no 
further relation to them than that of being born under 
the same roof. Several males and females lay in 
their envelopes in one of the largest cavities of my 
glazed ant-hill. The labourer-ants assembled toge- 
ther and appeared to be in continual motion around 
them. I noticed three or four mounted upon one of 
these cocoons, endeavouring to open it with their 
teeth at that extremity answering to the head of the 
pupa. They began to thin it by tearing away some 
threads of silk where they wished to pierce it, and at 
length, by dint of pinching and biting this tissue, so 
extremely difficult to break, they formed in it a vast 
number of apertures. They afterwards attempted to 
enlarge these openings, by tearing or drawing away 
the silk ; but these efforts proving ineffectual, they 
passed one of their mandibles into the cocoon through 
the apertures they had formed, and by cutting each 
thread, one after the other with great patience, at 
length effected a passage, of a line in diameter, in the 
superior part of the web. They now uncovered the 
head and feet of the prisoner, to which they were de- 
sirous of giving liberty, but, before they could effect 
its release, it was absolutely necessary to enlarge the 
opening. For this purpose these guardians cut out 
a portion in the longitudinal direction of the^cocoon,* 
with their teeth alone, employing these instruments 
as we are in the habit of employing a pair of scissors. 
A considerable degree of agitation prevailed in this 
part of the ant-hill A number of labourer-ants were 






occupied in diaen^ging the winged individual from 
its envelope; they took repose and relieved each 
other by turns, evincing great eagerness in seconding 
their companions in the task. To expedite the work, 
some raised up a little slip cut out in the length of 
the cocoon, whilst others drew the insect gently from 
its imprisonment. When the ant was extricated from 
its enveloping membrane, it was not, like other in- 
sects, capable of enjoying its freedom and taking 
flight; it could neither fly, nor walk, nor, without 
difficulty, stand ; for the body was still confined by 
another membrane, from which it could not by its 
own exertions disengage itself. 

“In this fresh embarrassment, the labnurer-ants 
did not forsake it: they removed the satin-like- pel- 
licle which embraced every part of the body, drew 
the antennae gently from their investment, then dis- 
engaged the feet and the wings, and lastly the body, 
with the abdomen and its peduncle. The insect was 
now in a condition to walk and receive nourishment, 
for which it appeared there was urgent need. The 
first attention, therefore, paid it by the guardians was 
that of giving it the food I had placed within their 
reach. 

“ The ants in every part of the ant-hill were occu- 
pied in giving liberty to the males, females, and 
young iabourer-ants, which were still enveloped. Ou 
being disencumbered of their coverings, the rem- 
nants were collected and placed aside in one of the 
most distant lodges of their habitation ; for these in- 
sects observe the greatest order and regularity. 
Some species of ants remove these shreds to a dis^ 
tauce from the ant-hill, others cover the exterior sur- 
face of their nest with them, or collect them in parti- 
cular apartments*.** 

A very interesting experiment upon this subject 
was tried by f)r. J. R. Johnson, of Bristol. “Among 
' ? Huber on Ants, p. 88. 



those ants I kept in confinement,^* says he, I ob- 
served that considerable bustle prevailed when any of 
the pupse were about to quit the cocoon. For the 
most part two or ‘three stationed themselves on 
or near each cocoon. From seeing, more than 
once, two engaged in the operation, I placed 
in a wine-glass, with a little moistened earth, 
one of the yellow ants (Formica flavd)^ with 
three or four pupae ; the first object with this little 
creature was that of excavating a chamber for the 
deposition of its treasure. The pupae were then 
brought up, and laid on the surface of the earth from 
day to day, to receive the sun’s warmth. In a few 
days I saw the scattered remnants of one of the 
cocoons, and the worker, with his assistant, engaged 
in giving liberty to the remaining ants. I did not, 
at the time, notice whether the pupae were or were 
not capable of effecting their own liberation ; but ac- 
cording to the statement of De Geer, the pupa dies 
when neglected by the workers*.” 

The latter circumstance is contradicted by the 
testimony of Swammerdam, one of the highest 
authorities which could be adduced. The species he 
describes as flesh-coloured, and he was not a little 
surprised that they spun a cocoon like the silk- worm. 
“ This web,” he says, “ was of an oval figure, and 
wrought with delicate and fine threads about the 
body, being of a rusty iron colour, and when I opened 
it I found a pupa in the interior. I likewise carried 
some of these enclosed pupee to Amsterdam, which 
after some days gnawed their way out of their webs, 
and produced some male ants ; this happened on the 
eighteenth of Julyf.*' It is obvious, therefore, that 
at least some species can extritate themselves with- 
out assistance ; though this seems to be the regular 
process. 

? Notes to Huber, p. 87. 
t Swammerdam, Biblia Nat, vol i. p. 130. 



 


We might have been led by analogy to suppose 
that bees would adopt a similar method of extricating 
their young ; but observation shows that they do 
not, for they break through their cocoon by means of 
their mandibles, at the same time forcing their way 
through the wax that is fastened down above to the 
web and bursting it into several jagged pieces, which 
they throw off on all sides. The other bees carry 
these broken pieces away, and clear the cells so tho- 
roughly as to make them quite smooth and even. 
The male, as well as the queen bees, force their way 
also out of their cells in the same manner as the 
common or working kind, and all undergo the same 
change*. But there is one very remarkable difference 
peculiar to the royal cocoons, first observed by the 
elder Huber, which well merits to be mentioned. 

A hive of bees is so essentially monarchical, that 
when more queens than one are produced they ex- 
hibit mutual and deadly animosity, which leads them 
to destroy one another. When there are several 
royal pupae, therefore, in a hive, the first transformed 
attacks the rest and stings them to death ; though, if 
these pupae were enveloped in complete cocoons, this 
murder could not be perpetrated ; — for the silk is of 
so close a texture, that the sting could not penetrate 
it; and if it did, the barbs would stick fast in the 
meshes, and the royal assailant, unable to retract her 
weapon, would become the victim of her own fury. 
In order, therefore, that she may destroy her rivals, 
it is necessary for the hinder rings to remain unco- 
vered, and on this account it is inferred the royal 
grubs spin only imperfect cocoons, open behind, and 
enveloping only the head, shoulders, and first ring of 
the abdomen. » 

H uber was exceedingly anxious to discover whe- 
ther the royal grubs spun their cocoons imperfect in 
consequence of a particular instinct, or of the greater 
* Swammerdam; vol. i. p. 187. 




width of the cells preventing them from stretching 
the thread up to the top. To ascertain this he dis- 
lodged several royal grubs about to spin their 
cocoons, and introduced them into glass cells blown 
of varying dimensions. “ They soon prepared to 
work/* he says, “ and commenced by stretching the 
fore part of the body in a straight line, while the 
other was bent in a curve, — thus forming an arc of 
which the sides of the cells afforded two points of 
support. It next directed the head to such parts of 
the cell as it could reach, and carpeted the surface 
with a thick bed of silk. I remarked that the threads 
were not carried from one side to another, which 
would have been impracticable, for the larvae, being 
obliged to support themselves, had to keep the pos- 
terior rings curved ; and the free and moveable part 
6f the body was not long enough to admit of the 
mouth reaching the opposite sides. The first expe- 
riments obviated the probability of any particular in- 
stinct in the royal larvae, and proved that they spin 
incomplete cocoons, because they are forced to do so 
by the figure of their cells. But desirous of evidence 
still more direct, I put them into cylindrical glass 
cells, where I had the satisfaction of seeing tliem 
spin complete cocoons in the same manner as the 
larvae of workers. In fine, I put plebeian larvae into 
very wide cells, and they left the cocoon open, as is 
done by the royal larvae. I also found that royal 
larvae, when lodged in artificial cells, where they can 
spin complete cocoons, undergo all their transfoi ma- 
tions equally well. Thus the necessity which nature 
imposes on them of leaving the cocoon open, is not 
on account of their increment ; nor does it appear to 
have any other object than that bf exposing them to 
the certainty of perishing by the wounds of their 
natural enemy ; — ^an observation truly new and sin^ 
giilar 


? Hub«r on Bees, p. 133. 




Expansion of the Body and Wings in Insects newly transformed. 

The mechanism by which winged insects, as well as 
birds, are enabled to support themselves in the air, is 
one of the most admirable instances of providential 
wisdom, to facilitate the locomotion and the distribu- 
tion of the smaller animals. The great agent em- 
ployed for this purpose is air, which is made to 
serve the double purpose of assisting in the assimi- 
lation of nutriment by the supply of oxygen and the 
removal of carbon, and of diminishing the weight of 
the body in order to render it buoyant. In birds, 
the lungs have several openings communicating with 
corresponding air-bags or cells which fill the whole 
cavity of the body from the neck downwards, and 
into which the air passes and repasses in the pro- 
cess of breathing. This is not all : the very bones of 
birds are hollowed out with the design of receiving 
air from the lungs, from which air-pipes are con- 
veyed to the most solid parts of the body, and even 
into the quills and plumelets of the feathers, which are 
hollow or spongy for its reception. As all these 
hollow parts, as well as the cells, are only open on 
the side communicating with the lungs, the bird 
requires only to tak§ in a full breath to fill and dis- 
tend its whole body with air, which, in consequence 
of the considerable heat of its body, is rendered much 
lighter than the air of the atmosphere. By forcing 
this air out of the body again, the weight becomes so 


 


much increased that birds of large size can dart down 
from great heights iu the air with astonishing velocity. 

In insects a similar mechanism occurs, though it 
is more difficult to trace it, on account of the great 
minuteness of the several organs ; but so far as ihe 
circumstances can be observed, they well merit our 
attention. The most remarkable nf these is the 
expansion of ihe body and wings on the perfect 
insect emerging from the pupa case. A very 
striking exemplification of this occurs in the trans- 
formation of the ant-lion (Myrmeieon formicarium), 
whose singular stratagems in the grub state are so 
familiar to the readers of books on natural history*. 
When it is about to change into a pupa it constructs 
a cocoon of sand, which it lines with a beautiful 
tapestry of silk, the whole being less than half an 
inch in diameter, the pupa itself, when rolled up, 
filling only a space of about half this dimension. 
When it has remained in the cocoon about three 
weeks, it breaks through the envelope and emerges to 
the outside, as the chrysalides of wood-borers make 
their way to the exterior of a tree to facilitate the exit 
of the perfect insect ; with this difference, that the 
nascent myrmeleon-fly makes use of its mandibles to 
gnaw the cocoon. When it has arrived on the out- 
side it only requires to expand its wings and body to 
complete its transformation. But this is the process 
most calculated to excite our admiration ; for though 
it is not on its emergence more than half an inch in 
length, it almost instantaneously stretches out to an 
inch and a quarter, while its wings, which did not 
exceed the sixth of an inch, acquire an immediate 
expansion of nearly three inches 

To the real wonders attending the history of this 
remarkable insect, it has been fancifully added, that, 
as it has cast off the spoils and cumbersome weight 
* See Insect Architecture/’ page 209, &c. 






of its first form, so is it likewise divested of its bar- 
barity and ravenous malignity ; but the formidable 
structure of its mandibles, as Rtkiuinur justly re» 
marks, evidently disprove this opinion. A lady dis- 
covered that it would eat fruit, and Rt^aumur ac- 
tually saw one munch part of a pear ; but he thinks 
that this is not its natural food*. Its close resem- 
blance, indeed, to the dragon-fiies (Libellulina)^ 
except in being more slow in flight, affords a strong 
analogical indication of its carnivorous propensities. 




a, Myrmeleon formknrivm, the fly of fhft ant rion. 6, the head 
mafi'nitied to thew the caliiper formed mandibles, c. the pupa, 
d, the pupa ekcaping; from its cocoon. 


A still more striking difference of size may be 
remarked in the pupa and the perfect insect of a lace- 
winged fly {Chrysopa Perla, Leach), by no means 
uncommon near London, and well known by its 
golden eyes and green wings t. The cocoon of this 

* Mem., vd. ri. p. 375. f See page 45. 


 


insect is not bigger than a small pea, while the fly is 
nearly an inch in length, and the expanse of the 
wings about two inches. 

In some aquatic insects this transformation is the 
more conspicuous from the change of element, the 
pupa emerging into the dry atmosphere, where the fly 
is evolved. In the case of the dragon-flies just men- 
tioned, the approaching change is evinced by the 
increasing transparency of the pupa, exhibiting the 
growing brilliancy of the large lustrous eyes of the in- 
cluded insect, which may be then brought into view 
by removing the envelope. At this period it may be 
seen removing out of the water to a dry place, such 
as a grassy bank or the stems of aquatic plants, into 
which it pushes its sharp claws, and remains for a 
short time immoveable. By the swelling of the 
upper part of the body the envelope is soon distended 
and burst asunder on the back of the head and 
shoulders, and, through the opening, first the head 
and then the legs of the perfect fly make their exit, 
whilst the empty slough of the legs continues fixed 
in its place. After this first part of the process is 
accomplished, it hsOigs down its head and rests for 
a space, as if exhausted by previous exertion, or 
rather to allow the newly excluded parts to dry and 
become more firm. It next erects itself, and laying 
hold of the upper part of the slough with its feet, 
pulls the parts still enveloped further out, then 
creeping forward by degrees, it disengages the en- 
tire body, and again rests for a time immoveable. 
The wings now begin to expand themselves, and 
their plaits and folds become gradually smooth. 
The body, also, becomes insensibly larger and 
longer, and the limbs acquire their just size and pro- 
portions. While the wings are undergoing this 
operation of drying and expanding, the insect takes 
care to keep them from coming into contact with the 




A, the drajcon fly, beginning to escape from the pupa ; a, the fly ; 
6, the pnpa case. B, the process further advanced ; c, the fly ; d, 
the pupa case. C, the fly nearly free, and forming an arch ; e, the 
» /» pupa case. I), the fly bending back its body, so as not 
to oMtruct the expansion of the wings. ¦ 



body, by bending itself into the form of a crescent ; 
for if they were obstructed, whilst wet, they could 
not afterwards be set to rights. 

All these changes are perfected, according to 
Swammerdam, by the force of the circulating fluids 
and the air, impelled by respiration, a fact of which, 
we think, there cannot be any doubt It is very 
seldom, however, that we can surprise insects at the 
precise moment of their transformation, as it is for 
the most part very speedily accomplished, for the 
whole of the preceding evolutions are usually com- 
pleted in ten or fifteen minutes. “ It happened by 
mere chance,** says Swammerdam, “ that I observed 
them for the first time : one of these verm ides 
adhered to a stone-wall in the river Loire, and it was 
so softened by the water dashing up against it, that it 
could only half perfect its change, so that I took it 
partly free and partly yet fixed in the skin. I once 
afterwards saw this change in the large kind of 
dragon-fly {Mshna f) which had crept to land out 
of a small lake, and cast its skin sitting in the 
grass * ’* 



a, newly-hstcbfd blow-fly inaKnified, shewing the jmlpy, 
eniinpled state of the wings, tlie wings, dry and fully ex* 
pand^ 


* BibL Nat., vol. i. p. 98. 






Some species of flies have their win^s shortened 
very considerably in the pupa state by zia^-zag or 
transverse folds ; so that, when newly e\olved, it 
might be supposed, from their moist and crumpled 
appearance, that they could never become so fine, 
gauzy, and translucent, as they are actually seen to 
do. This will be better understood from the above 
figures than by description. 

We have taken the preceding examples of expan- 
sion of the wings from those insects in which these 
are more or less transparent, and consequently the 
branching of the tubes {nervurex) through them is 
more obvious th^n in moths and butterflies, in 
which the wings are covered with feathery scales. 
It is, however, less rare to see the latter transformed 
than the former, from the greater facility of rearing 
them, and on that account, it may be proper to take 
some notice here of their transformation. We 
cannot in this find better guides than Swammerdam 
and the celebrated Italian anatomist, Malpighi, in 
his account of the silk-worm. “At length,” says 
the latter, “ within four days, the heart {dorsal vessel) 
of the silk-worm continues moving slowly, and the 
body growing bigger ; having thrown off the out- 
ward skin like a slough, the pupa appears a new 
creature. The throwing off the old and assuming 
this new form, is completed in the space of one 
minute and ten seconds ; and it is thus done, as I 
chanced to see it. The motion of the heart {dorsal 
vessel) is very quick at first, and the whole frame of 
the body appears convulsed ; so that the several cir- 
cular folds of the segments emerge, and by the 
transverse contraction of the sides, the external 
skin is separated from the inner; hence, upon 
making an effort, and thrusting the body, which now 
appears particularly thick towards the head, the skin 




is driven backward and downward ; and the portions 
of the windpipe being separated from their external 
proper orifices, are thrown away with the skin which 
is then cast off. By this motion, a cleft or opening 
is made in the back near the head, and through the 
aperture the body makes its way, the skin being by 
degrees drawn back towards the tail. This process 
is assisted greatly by a yellow kind of ichor which 
exudes from the cavities of the skull ; and the pupa 
appears then free and disengaged. 

“ While the insect is making its passage out, the 
antennae are separated from the body of the pupa, 
and are torn, as it were, out of two cavities of the 
skull ; and their length, as they become unfolded, 
occupies the same place which the two muscles of the 
mandibles formerly occupied. The wings, also, and 
the legs appear to be circumscribed in their limits ; 
the wings being drawn from their situation near the 
fore-legs, and the legs from the lateral parts of the 
back. But as these unfolded parts are yet mucous, 
they easily stick to each other, and, insensibly grow- 
ing dry, they become so closely united that the pupa 
appears like one entire garment. Now as these parts 
are peculiar to the moths, and are destined for their 
use, the nature of the moths seems to be to emerge 
sooner from the state of the caterpillar than is com- 
monly believed, and also to be earlier implanted 
in it ; for evidently, in the silk-worm, the beginnings 
of the wings may be seen under the second and 
third ring of the body, before the texture of the 
web. The antennae are likewise delineated on the 
skull, and the web being finished, they have their 
own termination ; nor will it be improper to suppose 
that the new kind of life in the pupa is only a mask 
or veil of the moth, which is already perfect within, 
the intent of which is, that it should not be struck or 


 

destroyed by external injuries, but might grow strong 
and ripen*” 

While the little creature remains in this condition, 
there is produced, as Swammerdam tells us, a vio* 
lent agitation in its fluids, so that they are driven 
from the internal vessels through the tubes in the 
wings, which are likewise supplied with air from the 
windpipe. The insect, besides, labours violently with 
its legs, and all these motions concurring with the 
growth of the wings, it is impossible that the tender 
skill which covers it should not at length give way, 
which it does by bursting in four distinct and regular 
pieces. When the legs become disengaged they 
much assist in freeing the body and other parts that 
are yet bound up ; at the same time, the skin on the 
back flies open and uncovers the wings and shoulders. 
The insect, after this, remains for sometime in a state 
of rest, with its wings drooping down hke wet paper, 
and its legs fixed in the skin which it has just cast 
off, together with the lining of the windpipe and 
breathing spiracles. This latter circumstance enables 
the insect to take more air into its body, and thereby 
renders it the better able to fly, and perform the 
other functions dependant on a good supply of air. 
In consequence of this the wings expand so rapidly, 
that it is by no means easy to trace their unfold- 
ing ; for in the space of a few minutes, they increase 
in dimensions about five-fold. Their spots and 
colours at the same time, previously so small as to 
be scarcely discernible, become proportionally ex- 
tended, so that what but a few minutes before ap- 
peared as a number of confused and indistinct points, 
acquires many varied beauties of colour and form. 
From the wings extending themselves so suddenly, 
their soft wrinkled appearance is, in less than half 
? Malpighi, De Bombyce. 

 


an hour, no longer visible, and the insect becomes 
fitted for flight*. 

Kirby, in speaking of the swallow-tailed butterfly 
(Papilio Machaon)^ says, “ I had the pleasure of 
seeing it leave its puparium the 16 th of May. With 
great care I placed it upon my arm, where it kept 
pacing about for the space of more than an hour ; 
when all its parts appearing consolidated and deve- 
loped, and the animal perfect in beauty, I secured it, 
though not without great reluctance, for my cabinet 
—it being the only living specimen of this fine fly I 
had ever seen. To observe how gradual, and yet 
how rapid, was the developement of the parts and 
organs, and particularly of the wings, and the perfect 
coming forth of the colour and spots, as the sun gave 
vigour to it, was a most interesting spectacle. At 
first, it was unable to elevate or even move its wings; 
but in proportion as the aerial or other fluid was 
forced by the motions of its trunk into their nervures, 
their numerous corrugations and folds gradually 
yielded to the action till they had gained their greatest 
extent, and the film between all the nervures became 
tense. The ocelli, and spots and bars, which appeared 
at first as but germs or rudiments of what they were 
to be, grew with the growing wing, and shone forth 
upon its complete expansion in full magnitude and 
beauty t.” 

The probable object of the movements which an 
insect makes, upon just escaping from the chrysalis, 
is to impel the fluids that had been compressed 
during its confinement, and more particularly air, 
into the various parts of the expanding body and 
wings. The wings, it may be remarked, are not, on 
the exclusion of the insect, folded up as are the long 
wings of an earwig {Forjicula auricularia)^ but are 
• Swammerdam, ii. 7, &c. f Intr. iii. 293. 





of a thick structure and easily expanded. They differ in 
this from full-formed wings, which cannot be stretched 
a hair’s breadth without tearing them ; whereas we 
have taken the wing of a butterfly on its emerging 
from the chrysalis, and extended it to four times its 
original expansion. That the fluids of the body are 
at this period impelled into the wings, is proved by 
an experiment first tried, we believe, by Swammer- 
dam, on the wings of bees. “ The blood in the bee,” 
he says, “.is a limpid fluid, as maybe observed, if a 
little part be at this time cut off from the wings ; for 
then the fluid exudes from the cut part, appearing, by 
reason of the extreme smallness of the blood-vessels, 
under the form of little pellucid globules, which in- 
sensibly and by degrees increase into considerable 
little drops.” — “ The wings of the bee have likewise 
many pulmonary tubes, which, when the nymph is 
casting its last skin, have also, together with all the 
other parts, once more to throw off* their exuvise. 
After this, when these tubes are again distended by 
the freshly impelled air, and the air-vessels, which 
have hitherto been contracted, are inflated and dis- 
tended with the same air, it follows that the whole 
wing afterwards expands itself, and becomes thrice, 
nay, four times larger than it was before. This 
expansion of the wings depends, therefore, both upon 
the impulsion of the air and of the blood ; for at the 
same time when the air is impelled into the wings, a 
considerable quantity of blood is likewise driven into 
the vessels of the wings.” — “ The female bees do not, 
as the common bees and the male, come forth with 
their wings folded up, but expanded and displayed, 
and in a state ready for flight. On this account, the 
all-wise Author of Nature has provided for them a 
more spacious mansion, in which they may expand 
their wings conveniently and properly ; so that after 
they have burst from their cells they may be pre- 





pared forswarmingf immediately, if there be a necessity 
for it, or that the youn^ queen may be in a condi- 
tion to drive out her royal mother and take her place 
if there be occasion*.” 

It does not appear, however, that Swammerdam 
proved by dissection the simultaneous existence of 
air and blood vessels in the wings, but merely infers 
this, as Reaumur afterwards did, from the phenomena. 
Blit Jurine has since actually demonstrated that every 
vein (nervure) of a wing contains an air-tube, which 
originates in the windpipe, and follows in a serpen- 
tine form, without filling, every branchlet of the 
nervures. Those who have not paid attention to this 
curious subject have little conception of the great 
diversity of forms which are exhibited by the branch- 
ings of these nervures, not only in different orders, 
but even in different species of insects. They differ, 
indeed, as much in this respect as the leaves of plants 
do in their mode of veining. 



Wiogs of insectti a, wiog of » beetle ; 6, wing of an earwig ; 
c, wing of a saw fly; d, wing of a crane fly ; e, wing of a com- 
mon fly (^Musca) ; /, wing of a midge iPsychuda). 


* Swammerdam, i. 187. 






In moths and butterflies the nervures are in a ^reat 
measure concealed by the feathery scales but when 
these are removed they are rendered apparent, and 
appear to resemble in some measure the arrangement 
observed in the two-winged flies. To this arrange- 
ment there occurs a remarkable exception in the 
family of plumed moths (^AlucitideB, Leach), of 
which Stephens enumerates twenty-nine British 
species. One of the most common of these is the 
large white plume (Pterophorus pentadactylus^ 
Leach), which maybe seen, during the summer, in 
hedges and gardens, flitting about like a tuft of down 
or a snow-white feather dropt from the breast of the 
eider duck. From being slow in its motions it is 
easily taken; but if rudely handled all its snowy 
plumage will come off. Another of the family, also 
very common, is the twenty-plume moth {Alucita 
hexadactyla^ Leach), which may be seen from March 



a, the twenty-plume moth. 6, the same magnified, c, the white 
plume moth. 

till October, on windows and the walls of rooms, or, 
still more probably, on the leaves of honey-suckles, 




on which its caterpillar feeds. Relaumur, who had 
never found the caterpillar, thought that so delicate 
an insect could not exist out of doors during the bleak 
weather of spring; and concludes that it feeds like 
the clothes nioth.in>doors — an instance among hun- 
dreds more how frequently our most plausible reason- 
ings are far removed from the facts. This moth is so 
small that it is not ready to catch the eye of those who 
are unacquainted with it, and even when it is found 
it requires a magnifying-glass to perceive all its 
beauties. 

The movements of insects just escaped from the 
chrysalis appear, then, to be analogous in their design 
to the restless motions of the young of larger animats. 
In Darwin’s fanciful language, the accumulation of 
excitability in the sensorium impels the creature to 
be frisky for the purpose of getting rid of the super- 
abundant stimulus ; but whatever the exciting cause 
may be, we are certain that the final cause and certain 
effect is the brisker impulsion of fluids, and particu- 
larly air, through the vessels appropriated to their 
circulation, and consequently the more perfect 
nourishment and speedy growth of the several mem- 
bers. The analogy between the larger animals and 
insects is, that th« latter, when they have undergone 
their last change from the pupa into the perfect 
insect, never increase in size, as the former remain 
stationary soon after puberty. 

We notice this the more readily, as those who are 
but little acquainted with insects are exceedingly 
apt to think they grow like other animals, and from 
this cause commit many mistakes, not perhaps of 
great moment, but which in a work like this it may 
prove interesting to rectify. “ The most common 
British butterflies,” it has been remarked, “ most 
persons may have observed to be those which are 
white; and all these are usually looked upon as 





of the same species, differing in nothing, except, 
perhaps, in the size ; the latter being erroneously 
ascribed to difference of age. But the fact is, that 
there are a considerable number of species of our 
white butterflies, as well as several genera, and pro- 
bably more varieties even of these than have yet been 
ascertained or described. It is certain, indeed, that 
butterflies do not, like the larger animals, increase 
in size as they grow older; for every individual, 
from the moment it becomes a butterfly, continues 
invariably of the same size till its death. Butter- 
flies, indeed, seldom live longer than a few days, or 
at most a few weeks, and during this time they eat 
little, except a sip of honey : and since this is so, it 
would be absurd to expect that they could increase in 
size. It must not, however, be understood from this, 
that the same species will always measure or weigh 
precisely the same ; for though this will hold as a 
general rule, there are many exceptions, arising from 
the accidents the caterpillar may have suffered from 
which an individual butterfly originated. It is only 
during the caterpillar state that the insect eats vora- 
ciously, and grows in proportion ; and if it is, during 
this stage of its existence, thrown upon short allow- 
ance, it cannot acquire the standard magnitude, and 
the butterfly will be dwarfed from the first. The 
same remarks with respect to growth apply to insects 
of every kind, and the fact cannot be better exemplified 
than in the uniformity of size in the house fly {Mvsca 
domeslica) among which scarcely one individual in a 
thousand will be found to differ a hair’s breadth in 
dimensions from its fellows*.’* 

We may add, that there are many flies occasion- 
ally found in houses both larger and smaller than the 
Mvsca domestica, but these are of a different spe- 

• J. Rennie on the White Butterflies of Britain, Mag. Nat. Hist. 
Tol. ii. p. 225. 






cies, and not, as is popularly believed, the old or 
the young of the house fly; no more than the mid- 
summer ( Zanihenmia solstitial^, Leach) 

is the young of the common cockchafer (Melolontka 
vulgaris). It would be equally correct to say that 
an ass is the young of a blood-horse, or a mouse the 
young of a rat. Nor is this mistake confined merely 
to popular belief, for we find it not only stated in 
books of natural history, but reasons assigned for its 
correctness. “It is held by some apiarians,” says 
Huish, “ that the bee, in emerging from its cell, has 
attained its full growth ; I would, however, recom- 
mend to those gentlemen to try to thrust either a 
bee or a drone into one of the breeding-cells, and 
he will find that the capacity of their bodies is too 
large for the dimensions of the celP.” This experi- 
ment would not, of course, succeed ; but that does 
not prove the doctrine, for the author does not take 
into consideration the great quantity of air by which 
the body is distended ; and even if this were ex- 
pelled by putting the bee under the exhausted 
receiver of an air-pump, the wings and other parts, 
now become dry and rigid, could not be folded up 
in the very compact manner in which they existed in 
the pupa state. 

Tile fact of the expansion of the wings by the 
impulsion of air and fluids into their nervures, 
may be illustrated by the accidental circumstances 
into which chrysalides may fall. We have men- 
tioned in a preceding page, that the thread by which 
a chrysalis is suspended may sometimes snap asun- 
der. When this happens, and the chrysalis is allowed 
to remain, it will not usually produce an insect com- 
plete in all its parts ; for the side upon which it lies 
being pressed against an unyielding substance by its 
own weight, instead of hanging lightly suspended 
* Huish on Bees, p. 43. 





by R silken cord, is prevented from becoming duly 
expanded, and when the insect is excluded it is found 
to be deformed. This might by some be imagined 
to be a mere theoretical view deduced from physio- 
logical reasoning; but we can prove it by specimens 
of moths and butterflies which we have reared. A 
colony of the brown- tail moth (Portheda aurijlua)^ 
which we reared during the summer of 1829, spun in 
the corner of a nurse-box a common web of several 
chambers for containing the pupae. One of these 
chambers being accidentally torn, a pupa fell upon 
the earth in the bottom of the box, and in due time a 
female moth was produced from it ; but she never 
succeeded in expanding her wings, which remained 
till her death shrunk, rumpled, and totally useless for 
the purpose of flying, though in every other respect 
she was full grown, and deposited in the box a group 
of fertile eggs, covered with down from her tail as 
neatly as was done by her sisters of the same brood. 
In the summer of 1825, the chrysalis of a small tor- 
toiseshell butterfly (Vanessa UrticceJ lost its hold of 
its silken suspensory, and fell upon the pasteboard 
bottom of a nurse-box, resting in a sort of angular 
position, so that the case of the upper wing on the 
left side pressed upon the box with the whole weight 
of the chrysalis above it. When the butterfly made 
its appearance, it expanded its wings as usual, but 
the wing upon which it had rested was not half the 
size of the one on the right side which had lain 
uppermost. Another of the same brood had by 
some cause not grown so large in the caterpillar 
state as the rest. It was transformed, notwithstand- 
ing, into a chrysalis, which appeared healthy and 
well formed ; but when the butterfly appeared, though 
it did not ditier from the usual appearance, its wings 
never expanded a single liair’s breadth, and remained 




always in the same state as when it issued from the 
chrysalis*. 



0, Vnnetfa utiica^ with one wlnff imperfect, h, brown-tlil 
moth, Purthcsia auriflua, with vhriTelied wings, c, Fanesia vrttcce, 
with unexpanded wings. 


It is not a little remarkable, that when insects are 
evolved from the pupa state, they always discharge 
some substance. It is important to remark, that the 
matter voided at this period by many butterflies {Va- 
nessa, &c.) is of a red colour, resembling blood, while 
that of several moths is orange or whitish. It could 
not readily be supposed that this should become the 
object of superstitious terror, yet so it has been in 
more instances than one. M outlet tells us, from 
Sleidan, that in the year 1553 a prodigious multitude 
of butterflies swarmed throughout a great portion of 
Germany, and sprinkled plants, leaves, buildings, 
clothes, and men, with bloody drops as if it had rained 
blood t. Several historians, indeed, have recorded 
showers of blood among the prodigies which have 
struck nations with consternation, as the supposed 
omen of the destruction of cities and the overthrow 
of empires. About the beginning of July, 1608, one 
of these showers of blood was supposed to have fallen 
* J.R. f Mouflet, Theatr. Ins. 107* 






In the suburbs of Alx. and for many miles around 
it. and particularly the walls of a churchyard were 
spotted with the blood. This occurrence would, no 
doubt, have been chronicled in history as a super- 
natural prodigj, had not Aix possessed at this time, 
in M. Peiresc, a philosopher, who, in the eager pur- 
suit of all kinds of knowledge, had not neglected the 
study of insects. It is accordingly related, in the 
curious life of Peiresc by Gassendi, that he had, 
about the time of the rumoured shower of blood, 
happened to find a large chrysalis, the beauty of 
which made him preserve it in a box. Some time 
after, hearing a noise in the box, he opened it and 
found a fine butterfly, which had left upon the bottom 
a red stain of considerable magnitude, and apparently 
of exactly the same nature with the drops on the stones, 
popularly supposed to be blood. He remarked, at 
the same time, that there were countless numbers of 
butterflies flying about, which confirmed him in the 
belief of his having discovered the true cause ; and 
this was further corroborated by his finding none of 
the red drops in the heart of the city, where the butter- 
flies were rarely seen. He also remarked, that the 
drops were never on tiles, and seldom on the upper 
part of a stone, as they must have been had they 
fallen from the heavens, but usually appeared in 
cavities and parts protected by some angular projec- 
tion. What Peiresc had thus ascertained, he lost 
no time in disclosing to many persons of knowledge 
and curiosity, who had been puzzling themselves to 
account for the circumstance by far-fetched reason- 
ings, such as a supposed vapour which had carried 
up a supposed red earth into the air that had tinged 
the rain ; — no less wide of the truth than the popular 
superstition which ascribed it to magic, or to the 
devil himself^. Those who are curious to verify the 
* R^aumur^ voi. i. p. 638. 




discovery, as we may well call it, of Peiresc, may 
easily do so by rearing any of the spinous caterpillars 
which feed on the nettle till they are transformed into 
the butterfly. We have witnessed the circumstance 
in innumerable instances. 

It is a curious and interesting probability, that the 
crimson snow of the Alpine and Arctic regions, which 
has recently excited so much scientific inquiry, should 
be referable to a somewhat similar cause, — a circum- 
stance which will apologize for our taking some notice 
of it here by way of illustration. According to 
Professor Agardh, red snow is very common in all 
the alpine districts of Europe, and is probably of the 
same nature w^ith that brought from the polar regions 
by Captain Ross. Saussure saw it in abundance on 
Mont Brevern, in Switzerland, and elsewhere ; 
Ramond found it on the Pyrenees ; and Sommerfeldt 
in Norway. In March, 1808, the whole country 
about Cadone, Belluno, and Feltri, is reported to 
have been covered in a single night with rose-coloured 
snow ; and at the same time a similar shower was 
witnessed on the mountains of Valtelin, Brescia, 
Carinthia, and Tyrol. But the most remarkable red 
snow shower was that which fell on the night between 
the 14th and Ibth of March, 1823, in Calabria^ 
in Abruzzo, in Tuscany, at Bologna, and through the 
whole chain of the Apennines. 

Upon the return of Captain Ross from the Polar 
expedition some years ago, the specimens of red 
snow which he brought home were examined by 
three of our most distinguished observers, Wollaston, 
Bauer, and Robert Brown, w'ho all came to the 
conclusion that it was of a vegetable nature, but 
diftered as to its botanical characteristics. Dr. 
Wollaston supposed it to be the seed of some moss ; 
Mr. Brown was inclined to consider it an algse, re- 
lated to Tremella cruentay a common native plant ; 





while Mr. Bauer thought it was a fungus of the genus 
Uredo. Professor Agardh refers it with Brown to 
the lowest order of algse, but standing as a distinct 
genus upon the very limits of the animal and vegeta- 
ble kingdoms. Saussure, indeed, from finding that 
the red snow of the Alps gave out, when burnt, a 
smell like that of plants, concluded that it was of 
vegetable origin, and supposed it to consist of the 
farina of some plant, though he could not trace it to 
its source. Baron Wrangel, again, who discovered a 
production similar or identical with Agardh’s Proto- 
€occus nivalis growing upon limestone rocks, men- 
tions that it was easily detached when placed under 
water, and in three days it was converted into ani- 
mated globules like infusory animalcules, which 
swam about and were made prey of by other infusoria. 
Professor Nees von Esenbeck, of Bonn, is inclined 
to think that the minute red globules, of which 
the Protococcus consists, are the vegetable state of 
bodies which had gone through a previous animal 
existence. 

The Rev. W. Scoresby, on the other hand, conjee 
lures that the red colour of the snow may be traced 
to the same cause as the orange- coloured ice of the 
polar seas, which arises from innumerable minute 
animals belonging to the Radiata, and similar to the 
Beroe globulosa oi' L’dnmrvk. It is about the size of 
a pin’s head, transparent, and marked with twelve 
brownish patches of dots. In olive-green sea water, 
he estimated 110,592 of these in a cubic foot*. 

Agardh remarks, that it is agreed upon all hands 
that the crimson snow always falls in the night, from 
which he infers that it has not been actually seen to 
fall. He thinks it is called into existence by the vivi- 
fying power of the sun’s light, after its warmth has 
caused the snow to dissolve, accompanied by the 
* JaiMson’t Bdin. Jouro., Jan. 1829, p. 55. 

 

incomprehensible power in white snow of producing 
a colour*. 

Rt^aumur says, with much justice, on another oc- 
casion, that an ordinary spectator frequently discovers 
what has escaped the notice of the best observers, 
and so it should seem it has happened in the present 
case, — the learned naturalists just mentioned having 
gone as wide of the facts, as the philosophers at Aix 
in accounting for the supposed shower of blood. 
Mr. Thomas Nicholson, accompanied with two other 
gentlemen, made an excursion the 24th July, 1821, 
to Sowallick Point, near Bushman’s Island, in Prince 
Regent’s Bay, in quest of meteoric iron. “ The 
summit of the hill,” he says, “ forming the point, is 
covered with huge masses of granite, whilst the side 
which forms a gentle declivity towards the bay was 
covered with crimson snow. It was evident, at first 
view, that this colour was imparted to the snow by a 
substance lying on the surface. This substance lay 
scattered here and there in small masses, bearing 
some resemblance to powdered cochineal, surrounded 
by a lighter shade, which was produced by the co- 
louring matter being partly dissolved and diffused by 
the deliquescent snow. During this examination our 
hats and upper garments were observed to be daubed 
with a substance of a similar red colour, and a mo- 
ment’s reflection convinced us that this was the excre- 
ment of the little auk ( Uria alle^ Temminck), my- 
riads of which were continually flying over our heads, 
having their nests among the loose masses of granite. 
A ready explanation of the origin of the red snow 
was now presented to us, and not a doubt remained 
in the mind of any that this was the correct one. 
The snow on the mountains of higher elevation than 
the nests of these birds was perfectly white, and a ra- 
vine at a short distance, which was filled with snow 
* liOudon's Encycl. of Plants^ Pfvtococcus,^ 





from top to bottom, but which afforded no hiding-place 
for these birds to form their nests, presented an ap- 
pearance uniformly white*.” 

This testimony seems to be as clear and indisput- 
able as the explanation given by Peiresc of the 
ejecta of the butterflies at Aix. But though it will 
account, perhaps, for the red snow of the polar re- 
gions, it will not explain that of the Alps, the Apen- 
nines, and the Pyrenees, which are not, so far as we 
know, visited by the little auk. Thus the matter at 
present rests, till it be elucidated by further obser- 
vations. 

* Mag. of Nat. Hist. vol. ii. p. 322. 



NeTHiNG that has life seems capable of existing long 
without motion. The oyster fixed upon the rock 
must open and shut its shell, and the most gnarled 
oak must wave its branches, otherwise their fluids 
will stagnate, and disease will ensue. In our own 
case, we cannot, if we would, put a stop for any 
length of time to all our motions. We have the 
power, indeed, of interrupting the nictitation of the 
eyelids ; but if we keep our eyes fixed for a few mi- 
nutes they become dry and painful for want of the 
regular sufjply of moisture spread over them by the 
process of winking. Breathing, again, being a more 
important operation, cannot be long inlerruyited, 
without serious consequences ; and when the motion 
of any of the limbs is prevented by the accidental 
injury of its joint, it usually shrinks and dwindles 
into less than half its natural magnitude, because the 
proper quantity of the nutritive fluids is not impelled 
thither in consequence of its deficiency of motion. 

We have already seen how indispensable the mo- 
tions of insects are to the due expanding of their 
wings upon emerging from the pupa state; and 
several remarkable circumstances show that, inde- 
pendent of change of place in search «)f food or of 
other localities for their progeny, motion is necessary 
to their well-being. At least there does not seem 
any other plausible explication of what we may term 
stationary motions. Kirby and Spence’s “ motions of 
insects reposing*,” appears to be a phrase which 
would not apply, for example, to an ox chewing the 
cud, or a cat washing her face with her paw, — mo- 
tions precisely similar to many of those of insects 
* Introd. vol. ii. p. 304. 




mentioned by them under this head. The mode 
adopted by cats of cleaning themselves with their 
paws, is, indeed, not a little similar to that of the 
house fly (Musca domestica), which, while it is bask- 
ing in a window and enjoying the heat of the sun, 
may be frequently seen not only brushing its feet 
upon one another to rub off the dust, but equally 
assiduous in cleaning its eyes, head, and corslet with 
its fore-legs, while it brushes its wings with its hind- 
legs*. At the time of writing this, March, 1830, 
we have just witnessed a similar process in a water 
measurer {Hydromeira stagnorum^ Latr.), which 
we had put into a glass containing water, with a 
leaf for it to rest upon. Not liking the narrow pool 
in the glass so well as the brook at Lee, from which 
it had been taken, it began to climb the edges of the 
glass, for which its feet were far from being well 
adapted, and it slipped at every step ; but, deter- 
mined not to be baulked, after several unsuccessful 
trials, it betook itself to the leaf as if to survey the 
obstacles before it again attempted the steep ascent. 
After deliberating for a moment, the thought seemed 
to strike it that its feet were not in the best trim for 
climbing ; and it forthwith began with great assiduity 
to clean them somewhat in a similar way to the fly 
by wiping them upon one another, but with this dif- 
ference, that it did not, like the fly, cross its legs from 
opposite sides, the length and rigidity of the thighs 
preventing such a movement. It did not forget at 
the same time to clean with much care its long an- 
tennae, in order, no doubt, to fit them the better for 
exploring an unknown path. It spent several mi- 
nutes in this preliminary trimming, when it again be- 
gan to mount, and we were no less pleased, perhaps, 
than itself, to see its perseverance rewarded; for, 
aided either by the greater cleanness of its feet, or by 
* iSee Insect Architecture, p* 368. 




some particles of slime and sand adhering to the 
glass, it triumphantly gained the brim, which it began 
to perambulate with an apparent air of proud exul- 
tation *. This insect is figured at 6, page 3S2. 

The process of cleaning and brushing the legs, as 
birds are seen to preen their feathers, is, however, 
the most remarkable, though, perhaps, but seldom 
taken notice of among spiders. The same process, as 
we have recently discovered, is employed by the Pha- 
langia. The apparatus for this is admirably con- 
trived. In the common garden geometric spider 
{Epeira diadem a), the teeth are used as a comb, 
the smooth mandible being employed to hold down 
the limb while it is slowly drawn between the teeth, 
to free it from flue and dust. In some other species, 
instead of smooth teeth, there is a thick-set brush 
of hairs, which is used in the same manner, and 
must be a still more efficient instrument. The former, 
if we do not mistake, chiefly occurs among the 
geometric spiders, whose webs are meshed and thin ; 
while the brush prevails among those which weave 
thick webs, such as the red spider {Dysdera try- 
ihrina, Walckenaeh), which we found in the cre- 
vice of a chalk rock near Erith, in Kent, but which is 
by no means common in Britain, though abundant in 
France. We kept this one for some time in a glass, 
and observed that it spent the greater part of its 
time in brushing its legs. The eyes are placed in 
form of a horse- shoe f. 

It must have struck those who have visited a 
menagerie of wild animals, that, even while they are 
standing in their cages, they frequently throw their 
heads, and also their bodies, into a sort of oscillatory 
movement, evidently not for the purpose of getting 
through the bars, but to supply the place of their 
Ratur^ exercise which conhuement prevents them 
? J. R. t K 







^ red spider (Dyiiera erythrina). 6, the head 6f the red 
spider, magiiitied. c c, the mandibles, fringed on the inside with 
hair, d, the eight eyes, in form of a horse-shoe, e, the head of 
the garden spider \Aranea diadema). fjf, the eight eyes. 
g gt the upper mandibles. A, tojtbed comb. 

from taking*. Perhaps this may help us to account 
for the singular motions of some of the crane flies 
(Tipulid(B)j while stationary upon a window or a 
wall, their whole body vibrating alternately outwards 
and inwards from the wall, with a pendulum-like 
movement, as rapid, or more so, than the clicking of 
a Watch. Kirby and Spence say, this is produced by 
the weight of their bodies and the elasticity of their 
legs ; and that, unless it be connected with respira- 
tion, it is not easy to say what is its object^. To us 
it appears, like the motion of the caged animals just 
mentioned, to be for the purpose of exercising them- 
selves and of driving the fluids into their long legs, 
which may not be ettected in the exercise of flying on 
account of their legs then remaining almost motion- 
less. Others of the same family may be seen hang- 
ing from a wall or ceiling by their fore-legs, whde the 
hind ones are perked out into the air, and moving up 
and down in a slow manner, probably to watch against 
approaching danger, as they are very timid ; and if 
the door of the room where they are be hastily opened 
or shut, or if any other agitation of the air be pttH 

Intr. ii. 306. 

 


duced, they immediately fly o(F*. The long-legged 
spiders, popularly called shepherds and harvest men 
(PhalangidtB, Leach), have a similar mode of ele- 
vating their legs, particularly the second pair, which 
they move about in all directions. 



a, Phalangium ; 6, Hi/drometra stagnorunit magnified. 

It can scarcely have escaped the remark of the 
most indifferent observer, that when butterflies (par- 
ticularly those of the genus Vanessa) alight during 
sunshine on a leaf or a pathway, they flirt their 
wings as a lady does her fan, and perhaps, as has 
been conjectured, for the similar purpose of cooling 
their bodies. But to us it appears more probably with 
the design of impelling air into the tubes of their 
wings to fit them the better for flight ; for we have 
remarked that they uniformly fan their wings when 
about to rise, though they had previously remained 
motionless for an hour together. A pretty family of 
two-winged flies {Syrphid(E'\) may frequently be 
remarked in lanes and on the borders of woods, 
hovering on the wing for a considerable time without 
shifting a hair's-breadth from their place, though the 
motion of their wings is all the while so rapid as to 
be almost imperceptible, similar to some moths 
{Sphingida, Plusia gammaXy whilst sipping 
? J. R. f Seep, 4. • t See p. 214. 




the honey of flowers. The vibratory motion of the 
wings in these instances is only to buoy them up so 
as to retain their place; but the instant they are 
alarmed by the approach of danger, they may be 
seen to take several long slrokes with their wings, 
and dart off with the rapidity of lightning. This is 
well illustrated by the motions of birds preparatory 
to flight, as they may be observed always to take se- 
veral deep inspirations, at the same time often rising 
on tiptoe, and puffing out and balancing their bodies 
to feel whether they have thrown enough air into 
their bones and feathers to float them along. Birds 
of prey (Raptores^ Vigors) seem to have the 
greatest power both of filling their bodies with air 
and of expelling it again at pleasure. Hence the kes- 
tril (Falco tinnuncxdus) may be seen floating about 
for a considerable time without moving a wing, or per- 
haps drawing a breath, till it can hold out no longer, 
when it flutters its wings rapidly, not for moving to 
a different place, for it remains stationary, but to 
recover its decreasing buoyancy by inhaling a fresh 
supply of air. For the same reason a trout will 
oscillate its body when losing ground by the rapidity 
of a stream. The osprey {Falco ossifragus), on the 
other hand, we have seen, at the Kyles of Bute and 
elsewhere, shoot down like a thunderbolt from the 
air into the sea, plunging far into the water upon a 
fish she had marked for her prey^, — a movement only 
to be explained by the rapid expulsion of the air 
which had been the chief agent in keeping her pre- 
viously afloat in the region of the clouds. Many 
birds which prey on smaller game have somewhat 
similar methods of poising and balancing their 
bodies, of which the water-ouzel {Cinclus aquaticus^ 

* ‘‘Super est Haliaetos,” says Pliny, “clarissimsl oculorum 
acie, librans ex alto sese, visoque in inari pisce, pra^cepa in eum 
ruens, et discussis aquis, rapiens.’*— //{«/. Nat, 




Bechstein) furnishes a good example, putting itself 
in a constant state of preparation, jerking its pie- 
bald head up and down as it skips from stone to 
stone of the brook, to pounce under water upon the 
first grub it espies swimming. In the same way 
the red-breast (Sylvia rubeeula) pops jerking about 
when on the look-out for caterpillars ; and so habitual 
does this become, that he does not fail to go through 
the manoeuvre when he pecks up a crumb at the cot- 
tage door, as well as when he pounces upon a cater- 
pillar in the woods, where it is often indispensable to 
secure the aim to prevent the insect putting in force 
some stratagem of escape*. 

We may next turn to a small two-winged fly, 
which, though equally common in gardens and else- 
where with the fanning butterflies {Vanessts) just 
alluded to, we can scarcely (considering its size) ex- 
pect to have attracted the notice of tliose who pay 
little attention to insects. We allude to the vibrating 
fly (Seioptera vihravs^ Kirby), which is not above a 
third of the size of the house-fly, but may be known 
by its shining black body, scarlet head, and transpa- 
rent wings, tipped with black. This tiny little crea- 
ture whether it trips over a leaf, or remains sta- 
tionary basking in the sunshine, is continually vi- 
brating its wings. “This motion,’^ says Kirby, “I 
have reason to think, assists its respiration but as 
he has not stated his reason, we are led, from an 
experiment which we tried, to doubt the conclusion. 
Having always seen the fly vibrating its wings in 
the sunshine only, as if it enjoyed the warmth and 
rejoiced in the feeling of existence, we wished to see 
how it would comport itself at night, and enclosed 
one under an inverted wine glass for observation. 
The conjecture which we had formed appeared to be 
correct ; for though, when moving about the glass, 
?J.R. 


 


it vibrated its wings as much by candle-light as in 
the sunshine, probably from the habit of associating 
the two movements, yet, whenever it remained sta- 
tionary, it kept the wings motionless. Had the 
motion been indispensable to respiration, and analo- 
gous to the motion of the gills of fish, or the panting 
in the anal scale of the water-louse (Asellus aqua- 
ticus^ Leach), this cessation would not have taken 
place at night. 

We are, therefore, perhaps justified in concluding 
that the vibration of the wings in this little fly is an 
indication of being pleased ; in the same way as a 
nestling sparrow, when fed by its dam, will half 
stretch its wings, and, as Thomson finely expresses 
it, will 

Quiver eveiy feather with desire 

or as a lamb when sucking will vibrate its tail, as 
well as the pretty birds popularly termed wagtails 
{Motacillce), when they perambulate the margin of a 
stream and find a plentiful banquet of insects to 
their liking. 

It may prove still more interesting, we think, to 
turn our attention to some other movements of in- 
sects which seem to be expressive of pleasure when 
they are not stationary, and leaving out of considera- 
tion, also, their foraging for food. A familiar in- 
stance of what we allude to (occurs in the aerial 
dances of the tipulidan gnats and some other in- 
sects. These are performed not only in summer, but 
frequently even in winter and in the earlier months 
of spring, — in sheltered places, indeed, such as under 
trees and hedges, in lanes, and when a day chances 
to be finer than usual, though the mildest day is of 
course at these seasons comparatively chill. The 
most common of these winter dancers is called by 
Harris the tell-tale {Trichocera hiemalis, Meigen), a 




troop of which may be occasionally seen gamboling 
in a sunny nook, though the ground be covered with 
snow. When the weather is warm and mild, how- 
ever, the dancing TipxdidfB prefer the decline of day; 
and we have remarked them keeping it up as long 
as we could distinguish them between the eye and 
the waning light of the western horizon : how much 
longer they continued to dance we cannot tell. 

It is a very singular fact connected with these 
gnat dances, that the company always consists exclu- 
sively of males. This any person who will take the 
trouble may verify by enclosing a group of them in 
a butterfly-net. If this be not at hand, )\e may pro- 
cure good evidence by wetting the hand, and passing 
it quickly amongst the thickest of the crowd ; when 
several will be caught, and will uniformly exhibit the 
beautifully fringed or plumed antennae, which in the 
female are without the hairs or the plumelets. What 
it may be, besides the same delighted and buoyant 
spirit which causes lambs to group together in their 
frolics, that induces those tiny gnats to sport in this 
manner on the wing, is, perhaps, inexplicable. 

Wordsworth^s opinion, though adopted by Kirby 
and Spence, is, perhaps, as we shall presently endea- 
vour to show, more poetical than correct. His words 
are:— 

** Nor wanting here to entertain the thought, 

Creatures that in communities exist, 

Less, as might seem, for general guardianship, 

Or through dependence upon mutual aid, 

Than by participation of delight, 

And a strict love of fellowship combined. 

What other spirit can it be that prompts 
The gilded summer flies to mix and weave 
Their sports together in the solar beam. 

Or, in the gloom and twilight, hum their joy.” 

T/ie Excursion, 

Tlie evening gamboling of rooks on the wing, 






when they return from their more distant excursions 
during the autumn, may with more certainty be re- 
ferred to this cause. White says, they rendezvous 
by thousands over Selborne Down, wheeling round 
and diving in a playful manner in the air, and when 
this ceremony is over, with the last gleam of light, 
they retire to the deep beech woods of Tisted and 
Kepley. It may not be improper, however, to dis- 
tinguish between this and the restless tossing about 
and flapping of the wings, often exhibited by rooks 
previous to a storm, which more usually occurs in the 
morning, and closely resembles the tossing of sea- 
birds on the billows during a gale*. 

The quickness of the vision of tipulidan gnats, and 
the rapidity as well as the dexterity of their motion, 
may be considered not a little remarkable, from the 
circumstance of their flying unwetted in a heavy 
shower of rain, whose drops — bigger than their own 
bodies — if they fell upon them, must dash them to the 
ground t ; unless it may be that the drops glide off 
their wings as they do off the feathers of a duck, while 
the elasticity of their bodies may save them from 
accidents, even when they chance to be pelted. 

Avery pretty species of these choral flies (CAzro- 
nomvs aterrimm\ Meigen), is exceedingly common 
in the vicinity of London, appearing about the close 
of winter, and readily distinguished by its shining 
snow-white wings, rendered more conspicuous by the 
contrast of its black body, while the male has his 
antenna} adorned with beautiful lead* grey plumelets. 
Though groups of these may be found sporting on 
the borders of woods and near water, even in January, 
proving that, though not half the size of the common 
gnat {Culex pipiens), they can brave the bleak winds 
of winter, — yet they often crowd into our apartments, 
like many others of the family. We have just been 
* J. R. -j- Kirby and Spence, vol.ii. p. 374. 




watching the proceedings of a pair of these elegant 
little creatures by candle-light, when they are more 
lively and alert than in the sunshine. We were 
reading a large quarto book with wide print and very 
broad margins, the white colour of which seemed not 
only to attract but to deceive them in the same way 
as a bird or a blow-fly will mistake a pane of glass 
for the “ viewless air,** and dash recklessly against 
it. Our little snowy-winged flies, apparently from a 
similar mistake, dashed themselves about on the 
pages of the book. We have been accustomed, from 
boyhood, to see gnats and other insects tumbling 
about in a similar manner when we have been read- 
ing at night, a circumstance which few of our readers 
can have failed to observe ; but we always pitied them 
on the supposition that it was in consequence of their 
heedlessly singeing their wings in the candle, and 
thus unfitting themselves to fly. This, no doubt, is a 
frequent cause of their falling on a book ; but it was 
not so with the two flies which we observed, for they 
remained quite perfect and uninjured. The most 
remarkable circumstance was, that they almost uni- 
formly fell on the back, which seems to indicate that 
they fly with the back downwards, a mode of flight 
not a little singular, though it has an analogy to the 
swimming of some aquatic insects {Notojiectidee^ 
Leach). When they felt the paper, they spun round 
in circles and half circles with great rapidity, and 
evidently not so much for the purpose of getting 
upon their feet as of continuing the gyrations they 
had been performing while on the wing. This we in- 
ferred from their being in no hurry to get up, and 
from their continuing, even when they got upon their 
feet, to wheel round and round, as if waltzing with 
the express design of showing that they could dance 
on the “ light fantastic toe,** as well as on the wing. 
Their circular movement is not peculiar to them, 





being observable in several others of the family, par- 
ticularly in a still smaller fly with black pellucid 
wings {Molobrus?)^ and not uncommon in sum- 
mer, whose extremely rapid motion we have often 
admired as it performs its minute gyrations on a 
leaf or the petal of a flower. 

It was no less remarkable, that the two snowy- 
winged gnats just mentioned were male and fe- 
male, as the latter is seldom seen, and when the 
males swarm upon a window, a single female can 
scarcely be found ; but though they were flirting 
about on the same page, they took not the slightest 
notice of one another, and each went through its 
gyrations as if unconscious of the other’s presence. 
The female, besides, contrary to what is usual among 
insects, was by far the most alert and agile of the 
two ; in so much that, though it was early in March, 
we at first mistook her for the minute summer fly 
alluded to in last paragraph *. 

From all we have observed, we think it probable, 
that notwithstanding the apparent sociality of the 
dancing gnats {Tipvlida'^, they do not congregate 
in consequence of any gregarious feelings, or for 
mutual assistance ; but merely because they are pro- 
duced in numbers in the same places, and individually 
prefer similar haunts. The individual sportive move- 
ments of the two snowy-winged flies just described, 
which were performed on the contiguous pages of a 
book, or severally at the top and bottom of the same 
page, prove that they do not consider the presence 
of numbers indispensable. This position is farther 
illustrated by the proceedings of an insect of a very 
different family — the whirlwig beetles {GyrinidcBy 
Leach), which may be seen on the surface of every 
pool weaving their eccentric dances, and twinkling 
their polished corselets in the sun, both in summer 
and, as we have remarked, throughout the winter. 

? J.R. 


 


These are most frequently observed frolicking in 
parties of from two to a dozen or more ; but we 
have very frequently seen an individual performing 
his gyrations with the same alacrity when alone as 
when mingling with his companions. We conclude, 
therefore, that the apparent sociality of these insects 
has no closer bond than that of the vultures which 
crowd to devour the same carcase, or of the unsocial 
sea-birds which congregate near a shoal of fish*. 

Kirby and Spence appear to be of a different 
opinion : — these “ little beetles,” say they, “ which 
may be seen clustering in groups under warm banks 
in every river and every pool, and wheeling round 
and round with great velocity ; at your approach 
dispersing and diving under water, but, as soon as 
you retire, resuming their accustomed movements, — 
seem to be under the influence of the social principle, 
and to form their assemblies for no other purpose 
than to enjoy together in the sun-shine the mazy 
dance t.*’ 

The following account of the manners of this 
beetle, by Mr. Knapp, is well worth extracting; 
though it is much more lively and interesting than 
strictly correct : 

“ Water, quiet, still water, affords a place of action 
to a very amusing little fellow (^Gy rimes natator)^ 
which, about the month of April, if the weather be 
tolerably mild, we see gamboling upon the surface 
of the sheltered pool ; and every schoolboy, who has 
angled for minnows in the brook, is well acquainted 
with this merry swimmer in his shining black 
Jacket. Retiring in the autumn, and reposing all the 
winter in the mud at the bottom of the pond, it 
awakens in the spring, rises to the surface, and com- 
mences its summer sports J. They associate in small 

* .T. R. f Intr. vol. ii. p. 4. 

J We have seen them throughout the severe winter of 1829-30, 
sporting on the unfrozen springs at Lee, in Kent, J. R. 





parties of ten or a dozen, near the bank, where some 
little projection forms a bay, or renders the water 
particularly tranquil ; and here they will circle round 
each other without contention, each in his sphere, 
and with no apparent object, from morning until 
night, with great sprightliness and animation ; and so 
lightly do they move on the fluid, as to form only 
some faint and transient circles on its surface. Very 
fond of society, we seldom see them alone, or, if 
parted by accident, they soon rejoin their busy com- 
panions. One pool commonly affords space for the 
amusement of several parties ; yet they do not unite 
or contend, but perform their cheerful circlings in 
separate family associations. If we interfere with 
their merriment they seem greatly alarmed, disperse, 
or dive to the bottom, where their fears shortly sub- 
side, as we soon again see our little merry friends 
gamboling as before. This plain, tiny, gliding 
water- flea seems a very unlikely creature to arrest 
our young attentions; but the boy with his angle has 
not often much to engage his notice, and the social 
active parties of this nimble swimmer, presenting 
themselves at these periods of vacancy, become in- 
sensibly familiar to his sight, and by many of us are 
not observed in after-life without recalling former 
hours, scenes of, perhaps, less anxious days: for 
trifles like these, by reason of some association, are 
often remembered, when things of greater moment 
pass off* and leave no trace upon the mind^.” 

“ The gyrinus,’’ say Kirby and Spence, “ seems 
the merriest and most agile of all the inhabitants of 
the waves. Wonderful is the velocity with which 
they turn round and round, as it were pursuing each 
other in incessant circles, sometimes moving in 
oblique, and indeed in every other direction. Now 
and then they repose on the surface as if fatigued 
* Journal of a Naturalist, p.307. 





with their dances, and desirous of enjoying the full 
effect of the sunbeam: if you approach, they are 
instantaneously in motion again. Attempt to entrap 
them with your net, and they are under the water and 
dispersed in a moment. When the danger ceases, 
they re-appear and resume their vagaries. Covered 
with lucid armour, when the sun shines they look like 
little dancing masses of silver and brilliant pearl 
The gyrations of the whirlwig are equalled in 
rapidity by its diving, when its sports are intruded 
upon by our approach. Its great quickness of sight, 
indeed, is quite surprising ; and is to be accounted for 
by one of the most striking instances of providential 
contrivance with which we are acquainted. Land 
animals see indifferently under water, and aquatic 
animals imperfectly in air ; and an animal with an 
eye equally fitted for seeing in water and in air, 
can, on account of the great difference of the me- 
diums, possess but imperfect vision in either. The 
little whirlwig, to obviate this difficulty, is furnished 
with two sets of eyes, one pair being placed on the 
upper part of the forehead for seeing in air, and 
another pair on the under part of the forehead, ex- 
actly under the first, and separated from them by a 
thin membrane, for seeing in water. As it swims 
half submerged, the latter pair of eyes must be 
very useful in warning the insect of approaching 
danger, from fishes or rapacious larvae below, while 
the former watch with equal keenness the ap- 
proach of enemies above. The hind feet are no less 
admirably formed for swimming, being broad, thin 
and elastic ; while the fore feet are constructed to 
answer the purpose of hands for the seizing of prey. 
The little animal is, besides all these wonderful 
organs, furnished with a pair of ample wings for 
transporting itself, should the water of its native 
? Intr, voU ii. p, 372, 





pool chance to dry up in summer, and force it to 
emigrate. 

The sporting of butterflies in pairs, trios, or more, 
has been looked upon by some as pugnacious skir- 
mishing. “ A few of our lepidopterous creatures,” 
says Mr. Knapp, “ especially the common white 
butterflies of our gardens, are contentious animals, 
and drive away a rival from their haunts. We see 
them progressively ascending into the air, in ardent 
unheeding contest ; and thus they are observed, cap- 
tured, and consumed in a moment by some watchful 
bird ; but we have few more jealous and pugnacious 
than the little elegant blue argus butterfly {Polyom- 
matus Alexis^ Stephens), noted and admired by all. 
When fully animated it will not sutfer any of its 
tribe to cross its path, or approach the flower on 
which it sits, with impunity ; even the large admirable 
(Vanessa atalania^y at these times, it will assail and 
drive away. There is another small butterfly, the 
copper (Lyccena Phlceas^ Fabr.), however, as hand- 
some and, perhaps, still more quarrelsome, frequent- 
ing too the same station and flowers ; and a constant 
warfare exists between them. We shall see these 
diminutive creatures, whenever they come near each 
other, dart into action, and continue bulFeting one 
another about till one retires from the contest ; when 
the victor returns in triumph to the station he had 
left. Should the enemy again advance, the combat 
is renewed ; but should a cloud obscure the sun, or 
a breeze chill the air, their ardour becomes abated 
and contention ceases. The copper butterfly enjoys 
a combat even with its kindred. Two of them are 
seldom disturbed, when basking on a knot of asters 
in September, without mutual strife ensuing. Being 
less aflected by cold and moisture than the argus, 
they remain with us longer, and these contentions 
are protracted till late in the autumn. The pugna- 
cious disposition of tlie argus butterfly soon deprives 


 


it of much of its beauty ; and, unless captured soon 
after its birth, we find the margins of its wings torn 
and jagged, the elegant blue plumage rubbed from the 
wings, and the creature become dark and shabby*.” 

We are of opinion, on the other hand, that these 
butterfly skirmishings are not prompted by testiness 
nor Jealousy, but by the spirit of gaiety and frolic — 
the buoyant feelings arising from the air expanded 
in their wings and bodies by the warm sunshine, 
causing the living principle to increase even to exu- 
berance. Were these, indeed, actual combats among 
the males, like those which take place among game- 
cocks or ruff’s {Tringa pygnax, Linn.), nature 
would probably have furnished them with weapons 
suited to such warfare. But butterflies have neither 
spurs, claws, nor sharp bills, wherewith to assail an 
enemy ; and though they might flap one another with 
their wings, till their tiny feathers flew about like a 
snow-shower, yet we never have observed them do 
so, as Mr. Knapp’s description seems to imply. On 
the contrary, they appear actually to take care that 
such an accident should not occur while they frisk 
about one another, rising, falling, and performing 
zigzag pirouettes in the air, as we see kittens or 
puppies do on the ground, in their more clumsy but 
no less frolicksome gambols. Did these skirmishes, 
besides, originate in rivalry or jealousy, we should 
always see the butterflies combating in couples, for we 
never see two or three game-cocks set upon an indi- 
vidual ; but it is by no means uncommon to see three 
and we have observed as many as five butterflies, all 
equally engaged in these supposed battles, and each 
bouncing and popping indiscriminately at the others 
without ever coming to blows. It seldom happens 
that they actually touch one another, however long 
they may be at play, — a circumstance which of itself 
is sufficient to prove our position. 

? Journ, of a Naturalist, p. 277. 





A more extraordinary display of insect dancing-, 
and which in some instances seems better entitled to 
the name of a balU than our own dancing parties, 
occurs amongst the day-flies (EphemeridiB), whose 
short-lived existence renders it necessary for them to 
make the most of the few hours at their disposal. 
The narrative of the observations made by Reaumur 
upon this subject is too interesting to admit of much 
abridgment. It is not a little singular, he remarks, 
that moths, which fly only in the night, and shun the 
day, should be precisely those that come to seek the 
light in our apartments ; but it is still more wonderful 
that the ephemerie — which, appearing after sun-set 
and dying before sun-rise, are destined never to 
behold the dawn of day, — should have so strong an 
inclination for any luminous object. 

It is usually about the middle of August that 
the ephemerae of the Seine and Marne are ex- 
pected by the fishermen, and when their season is 
come they talk of the manna beginning to appear, 
calling the insects by this term on account of the 
quantity of food for the fish, which falls as the manna 
is recorded to have done in the desert. On the 
19th of August, ReJaumur, having received notice 
that the flies had begun to appear, and that millions 
of them were coming out of the water, got into his 
boat about three hours before sunset ; but after stay- 
ing in the boat till eight o’clock without seeing any, 
he resolved, as a storm was foreboded, to return. 
He had previously detached from the banks of the 
river several masses of earth filled with pupa?, which 
he put into a large tub full of water. His servants, 
who were carrying the tub home, had scarcely set it 
upon one of the steps of the stairs leading from his 
garden to the Marne, when he heard them exclaim, 

“ What a prodigious number of ephemerae are here!” 
He immediately seized one of the torches and ran to 

 


the tub, where he found every piece of earth above 
the surface of the water swarming with the flies, 
some just beginning to quit their old skin, others 
preparing to fly, and others already on the wing, 
while every where under water they were seen in a 
greater or less degree of forwardness. The threatened 
storm of rain and lightning at length coming on, he 
was compelled to leave the interesting scene ; but, to 
prevent the escape of the insects, he had the tub 
covered with a cloth. The violence of the rain ceased 
in about half an hour, when he returned to the garden, 
and as soon as the cloth was removed from the tub 
he perceived that the number of the flies was pro- 
digiously augmented, and continued to increase for 
some time as he stood watching them. Many flew 
away, and many more were drowned, but the number 
which had already undergone their transformation 
from the earth in the tub w^ould have been sufiicient 
to fill it, exclusively of crowds of others which the 
light had attracted from a distance. He again spread 
the cloth over the tub, and the light was held above 
it: immediately the cloth was almost concealed by 
the vast multitudes which alighted upon it, and they 
might have been taken by handfulls ifom the candle- 
stick. What he had observed, however, at the tub, 
was nothing to the scene now exhibited on the banks 
of the river, to which he was again attracted by the 
exclamations of his gardener. 

“ The countless numbers,’' he says, “ of ephe- 
merae which swarmed over the water can neither be 
conceived nor expressed. Wlien snow falls thickest 
and in the largest flakes, the air is never so com- 
pletely full of them as that which we witnessed filled 
with ephemersB. 1 had scarcely remained a few 
minutes in one place, when the step on which I stood 
was covered in every part with their bodies, from two 
to four inches in depth. Near the lowest step, a 





surface of water, of five or six feet dimensions every 
way, was entirely covered with a thick layer of them, 
and those which the stream swept away were more 
than replaced by the multitudes that were continually 
falling, I was repeatedly compelled to abandon my 
station, from not being able to bear the shower of 
insects, which, not falling perpendicularly like rain, 
struck me incessantly and in a manner extremely 
uncomfortable, pelting against every part of my face, 
and filling iny eyes, nose, and mouth almost to suffo- 
cation. On this occasion it was no pleasant post to 
hold the light, for our torch-bearer had his clothes 
covered with the insects in a few moments, which 
rushed in from all quarters to overwhelm him. 

“ The light of the torch gave origin to a spectacle 
which enchanted every one who beheld it, and alto- 
gether different from a meteorological shower; even the 
most stupid and iinobserving of my domestics were 
never satisfied with gazing at it. No armillary sphere 
was ever formed of so many circular zones in every 
possible direction, having the light for their common 
centre. Their number seemed to be infinite, crossing 
each other in all directions, and in every imaginable 
degree and inclination — all of which were more or less 
oblique. Each of these zones was composed of an 
unbroken string of ephemera?, which followed each 
other close in the same line as if they had been tied 
together head and tail, resembling a piece of silver 
ribbon deeply indented on its edges, and consisting 
of equal triangles placed end to end — so that the 
angles of those that followed were supported by the 
base of those which preceded, the whole moving 
round with incredible velocity. This spectacle was 
caused by the wings of the insects, which alone could 
be distinguished. Each of these flies, after having 
described one or two orbits, fell to the. earth, or into 


 


the water, though not in consequence of having been 
burned*.” 

It is conjectured by Kirby and Spence, that 
Reaumur, though he was unquestionably a most 
accurate observer, may have mistaken the rapid 
movements of single flies, and the deception of 
vision thence arising, for a numerous troop, following 
one another in zoned circular lines, — a mistake which 
they were once upon the point of committing when 
observing the dances of certain small flies which 
moved in spirals ; closer observation, however, proved 
that what appeared to be a continuous line of flies, 
was produced by the rapid motion of an individual. 
Be this as it may, it will not alter the singularity of 
the spectacle. Some of our British ephemerae begin 
their dances with the dawn, instead of waiting till 
sun-set, — rising and falling continually over the 
meaidows in May, sometimes beating the air rapidly 
with their wings, and sometimes skimming about like 
hawks t. Those again which we observed in August, 
rising from the Rhine, did not dance at all, but flew 
in a heavy, unsteady, and lumbering manner above 
the current of the river 

In speaking of what appear to be the sports of 
insects, we cannot omit taking notice of the very 
singular proceedings of some species of ants, which, 
at the intervals of busy industry, amuse themselves 
with something apparently analogous to our wrest- 
ling and racing matches. Bonnet says, he observed 
a small species of ants, which employed themselves 
in carrying each other on their backs, the rider hold- 
ing with his mandibles the neck of his bearer, and 
embracing it closely with his legs§, the position 

? Reaumur, Mem. vol. vi. p. 485. 

f Kirby and Spence, vol. ii. p. 373. J J. R. 

§ Bonnet, CEuvres, vol.ii. p. 407. 




which the renowned John Gilpin may have some- 
times been disposed to assume in his famous race 
throui^h Edmonton. But thou<^h the very palpable 
mistakes committed by Bonnet respecting^ these very 
ants* may, perhaps, tend to invalidate his authority 
with respect to their riding*, we have the undoubted 
testimony of both Gould and Huber for their wrest- 
lings. “ Yon may frequently,** says Gould, “ per- 
ceive one of these ants (Formica ntfa, Latr,) run 
to and fro with a fellow-labourer in his Ibrceps of 
the same species and colony.** Mr. Gould observed, 
that, after being carried for some time, it was let go 
in a friendly manner and received no personal injury. 
This amusement is often repeated, particularly among 
the hill ants, who are very fond of this sportive 
exercise t- 

It was amongst the same species, that Huber ob- 
served similar proceedings,which he has describedwith 
his usual minuteness and accuracy. “ I approached,** 
he says, “ one day to the formicary of wood ants, 
exposed to the sun and sheltered from the north. 
The ants were heaped upon one another in great 
numbers, and appeared to enjoy the temperature on 
the surface of the nest. None of them were at work, 
and the immense multitude of insects ])resented the 
appearance of a liquid iii the state of ebullition, upon 
which the eye could scarcely be fixed without diffi- 
culty; but when I examined the conduct of each 
ant, 1 saw them approach one another, moving their 
antenna? with astonishing rapidity, while they patted 
with a slight movement the cheeks of other ants. 
After these preliniinary gestures which resembled 
caressing, they were observed to raise themselves 
upright oil their hind legs by pairs, struggle together, 
seize each other by a mandible, foot, or antenna, and 

? Huber on Ants, pref, and pp. 21 1 and 233. 
f Gould on Ants, p. 102, &c. 

 


then immediately relax their hold to recommence the 
attack. They fastened upon each other’s shoulders, 
or bellies, embraced and overthrew each other, then 
raised themselves by turns, taking their revenge 
without producing any serious mischief. They did not 
spurt out their venom as in their combats, nor retain 
their opponents with that obstinacy which we observe 
in their real quarrels. They presently abandoned 
those which they had first seized, and endeavoured to 
catch others. I have seen some who were so eager 
in these exercises, that they pursued several workers 
in succession, and struggled with them a few 
moments, the skirmish only terminating when the least 
animated, having overthrown his antagonist, succeeded 
in escaping and hiding in one of the galleries. In 
one place, two ants appeared to be gamboling 
about a stalk of grass,— turning alternately to avoid 
or seize each other, which brought to my recollection 
the sport and pastime of young dogs when they rise 
on their hind-legs, attempting to bite, overthrow, and 
seize each other, without once closing their teeth. 
To witness these facts, it is necessary to approach the 
ant-hills with much caution, that the ants should 
have no idea of our presence; if they had, they 
would cease at the moment their plays or their occu- 
pations, would put themselves in a posture of defence, 
curve up their tails, and ejaculate their venom*.” 

? M. P. Huber on Ants, p. 203. 





Peculiar Looomotioni. 

Those who have attended to the paces of the larger 
animals, are well aware of their almost infinite 
variety ; but the differences between the heavy tread of 
the elephant or the waddling roll of an overgrown 
pig, the elegant pace of a blood-horse or the 
sprightly trip of an antelope, will bear no comparison 
with the infinite diversities observable among the 
movements of insects. We look upon the long legs 
of the giraffe and the crane as inelegant and dispro- 
portionate, how well suited soever they may be to 
their mode of life : but what should we think of a 
species of giraffe, with legs long enough to enable it 
to overtop the tallest trees, so as to browse on their 
tops as oxen do on the grass of a meadow, while it 
walked at ease through woods and forests ; or of a 
wren or sparrow with legs as long as the hop-poles 
among which it prowled to prey upon aphides and 
lady-birds. But animals of such descriptions, wildly 
imaginary as they must be confessed to be, may be 
readily matched in the insect world. The pendulum 
crane fly (Tipula motitatrix), formerly mentioned, 
as well as the shepherd spider fPhalavgivm 
opilioj, described in the same place, are remarkable 
examples of this; and we have still more striking 
instances in the large clouded-winged crane fly 
(Tipula gigantea, Meigen), popularly termed father 
longlegs, or jenny-spinner, their stilted legs enabling 
these insects to overtop the grass as they walk in the 
meadows, in the same way as our imaginary giraffe 



 


would overtop the trees in a forest. We have been 
more struck with instances of this in some of the 
bug tribe, because here it was least to have been 
expected. In our earlier entomological researches, 
we frequently noticed, upon a white-washed wall, a 
very strange looking insect, if insect it might be 
called, moving about in the most awkward manner 
imaginable. It looked, however, more like a slip of 
gray tree bark, not half the breadth of a wheat-straw, 
that had been accidentally caught on some straggling 
films of spiders’ web, which allowed it to oscillate 
irregularly in the air, than a real living creature, — for 
the long gossamer legs did not, to the unassisted eye, 
appear to move at all, and the slender awkward 
body progressed by interrupted jerks (if such 
slow motions may be so termed), resembling the 
movement of the minute-hand of a clock. The 
glass, however, showed that the body was covered by 
the folds of four membranous wings, prettily mottled, 
which lay in a hollow groove on the back, while the 
long slender legs were elegantly ringed with white. 
It was, in short, one of the numerous family of plant- 
bugs (Neides elegans? Curtis) which had strayed 
from the adjacent garden to the wall. Another 
occurred in the same place somewhat similar, but 
considerably smaller, and stalked along with equally 
awkward jerks, upon only its four hind-legs, while it 
kept its two fore-legs, which were greatly shorter, 
folded up under its belly, in readiness, probably, to 
seize on the first luckless mite or aphis that came in 
its way*. The latter appears to be the wandering 
plant-bug (Ploiaria vagabunday Scopoli). 

Many insects are capable of performing a feat 
which no other animal could accomplish without the 
aid of the water-shoes lately invented — we allude to 
walking on the water, as distinct from swimming, 
* J. R. 



a h 


a, Ploiaria vagabunda^ magnified, b, Ncides elegans^ magnified. 

which most, if not all animals, save man, can do 
without instruction. The whirl wig beetle (fiyrinus 
natator) can scarcely be said either to walk, run, or 
swim, — for, as we have taken some pains to ascertain, 
it appears not to keep its “ oary feet^' plunged in 
the water as it flits about, but strikes smartly out, 
and suddenly folds them flat under its belly ; on the 
same principle as a waterman on the Thames may 
be seen to give two or three quick pulls with his oars, 
to put way, as he calls it, upon his wherry, and then 
perking them up out of the water, lets it skim along 
while he rests motionless. Thus does the little 
whirlwig glide along the water as if by magic, for 
we cannot see its I’eet moving on account of the 
border of the wing cases {elytra) which overlap 
them ; no more than we can discern the feet of a swan, 
from their dark colour, resembling that of the water, 
even when she skims about at a small distance from 
the shore*. 

Most people must have been amused by observing 
the groups of water insects which seem to delight in 

* J.R. 







swimminir against small streams, and apparently 
more for the purpose of maintaining their place than 
of making farther progress upwards. The most 
common of these are two aquatic bugs of different 
genera — the one {Gerris locustris, La.tr.) with a 
long blackish body and legs, and white belly, though 
more clumsy in form than the water measurer (Hy- 
drometra stagnorum) formerly mentioned ; and the 
other (Velia currens^ Latr.), with short body 
and feet, black, with a red line running along each 
side. We have been still more amused with a 
dark greenish grey spider {Lycosa Saccata, Latr.), 
which, when we approach near its haunts on the 
margin of a stream, does not take shelter in the grass, 
nor in the holes of the bank, as most of its kindred 
would do, but trips away over the water, where it 
appears to know instinctively that we cannot so easily 
pursue it. This is not, however, the diving water 
spider (Argyroneta aqnaiica)^ for though it can 
dive and remain under water, it does not seem to 
relish this, except when driven to the measure 



A Hydrmctra stagnorum. c rf, Hydrachnn Geographicay Lath., 
front and back Tio)v, both magnibeo. 0, Vclia rivuhrum^ Lata. 

* J. R. 





Some of these water insects have such slender feet, 
that we can only explain their not sinking in the water 
on the same principle as that of a small needle float- 
ing when very dry and laid exactly level. Others 
again have their feet fringed with fine hairs which 
buoy them up; while the tipiilidan gnats {Chironomi) 
and other flies, are, perhaps, aided by their wings in 
keeping them afloat; for we have observed several 
aquatic flies skimming on the surface of the water, 
apparently half running, half flying. Linnaeus saw 
one of these little tipula% of a black colour, per- 
forming gyrations on the water similar to those of 
the whirlwig {Gyrinvs): others use their wings as 
the swan does, by way of a sail. 

Other insects walk both through the water, and at 
its bottom, in a similar manner to walking on land, 
and not by striking with their feet, as is done in 
swimming. It is in this manner that the minute 
pretty water-mite {Hydrachna geographical Mul- 
ler), may be seen in every ditch and pond around 
London, pacing along, often in company with a still 
more showy one {Limvochares holoacricca, Latr.), 
whose bright scarlet colour renders it very easily re- 
cognised, and may readily lead a young naturalist to 
suppose that the scarlet satin mite {Trombidium 
holosericeiim^ Latr.), so frequent on dry banks in the 
spring, has abandoned the laud for the water. The 
latter, however, is much larger. 

The amphibious nature ol' those winged beetles 
which can walk at the bottom of water, is matched, 
if not out-rivalled, by the water-ouzel {Cinclus 
aquations, Bechstein), which we have repeatedly seen 
walk deliberately under water, and continue its pace 
for many yards, as if it had been on land*. As this 


* J.R. 



 


little bird lives on water insects and the fry of fish, 
its amphibious powers are indispensable. 

Some of these aquatic insects, such as the whirl wig, 
are so highly polished, that the water will not adhere 
to their bodies ; while others (Hydrophilic &c.) are 
covered below with a thick coating of silky hair, which 
repels the water and usually surrounds them with a 
globule of air that shines under v\ ater like quicksilver. 
The spider mentioned above is similarly furnished 
with downy hair for the same purpose. 

In walking, insects exhibit endless peculiarities. 
The hunting spiders, and many of the midges (Psy- 
chod(By Latr.), instead of walking straightforwards, 
most usually walk obliquely, and often at right-angles 
to the line of their own bodies ; while most insects 
can, when it is necessary, walk directly backwards 
with almost as much facility as forwards. Wlien 
the centipedes (Scolopeiidridce, Leach) walk back- 
wards, they only use their four hind-legs, and these, 
when they walk in the usual way, are not employed, 
but dragged after them like the locked wheel of a mail- 
coach in driving down a steep hill. It was first 
observed, we believe, by Kirby, that a millepede 
common under stones, the bark of trees, and the 
hollow stems of decaying plants, and provincially 
called maggy-manyfeet (Julus terrestris)^ performs 
its serpent-like motion by extending alternate por- 
tions of its numerous legs beyond the line of the 
body, while those in the intervals preserve a vertical 
direction. So long, then, as it keeps moving, little 
bunches of the legs are alternately in and out from 
one end to the other of its long body, the undulating 
line pf motion successively beginning at the head and 
passing off at the tail*. We may ^d, that the form 
and structure of this insect are admirably adapted 
* Intr, vol, ii. p. 309. 





to its mode of life, it being long and of small dia- 
meter, to enable it to thread its way through narrow 
holes ; while its covering is highly polished to facili- 
tate its passage, and so hard as to prevent it being 
lacerated by any splinter of wood which it might 
chance to encounter, while it is at the same time so 
flexible, that it can coil itself up into a circle of very 
small diameter. The hardness and the flexibility, 
though apparently incompatible, are produced by a 
similar contrivance to that of the spine in man — the 
whole body of the julus being composed of small 
hard rings united by flexible joints*. 

Instances have occurred in which a sheep or a 
cow has come into the world with legs upon its back: 
this, of course, is a monstrosity out of the usual course 
of nature; but in a very singular insect, the bat- 
louse (JSfycteribia Hermanniy Leach), the legs 
appear to have their usual place on the back. “It 
transports itself,” says Colonel Montagu, “ with 
such celerity, from one part of the animal it inhabits 
to the opposite and most distant, although obstructed 
by the extreme thickness of the fur, that it is not 
readily taken.” — “ When two or three were put into 
a small phial, their agility appeared inconceivably 
great ; for, as their feet are incapable of fixing upon 
so smooth a body, their whole exertion was employed 
in laying hold of each other ; and in this most curious 
struggle, they appeared actually flying in circles: 
and when the bottle was reclined, they would fre- 
quently pass from one end to the other with astonish- 
ing velocity, accompanied by the same gyrations : if 
by accident they escaped each other, they very soon 
became motionless ; and as quickly were the whole 
put in motion again by the least touch of the bottle 
or the movement of an individual t.” 

Many of the beetles run with great velocity, and 
I*R. f Linn, Trans, vol, xi. p. 13. 

2 I 






dart off into holes and comers so suddenly, as often 
to escape the quickest movements of an insect 
hunter. It is remarkable, however, that those swift- 
footed insects seldom run far without making a full 
pause to reconnoitre their position, as a deer may be 
seen to arch his neck from behind a tree to examine 
a stranger, and, after tripping off to some distance, 
turn round again to take another peep at the intruder. 
The same habit is observable among spiders, parti- 
cularly the hunters, and those which run about 
meadows and the margins of water (Lycosa saccaia, 
&c.) Some of the mites are still more rapid in their 
movements, and we have often admired a very com- 
mon one {Gamniasus Baccanim^ Fabr.) which fre- 
quents strawberry-beds in gardens, and, as Kirby 
and Spence justly say, appears rather to glide or fly 
than to use its legs^. Its minuteness adds to the 






0, terrettris. h. tlie tame roiled np. c, oil beetle 
ioatxibaui vulgariM). d, Ngcttrihia H$rmanHi. 

* Intr. vol.ii. p.311. 





surprise produced by its movements, for it is litUe 
larger than a grain of sand, of a pale reddish colour, 
with two black dots on the back ; — and though the 
clods of garden-mould are mountains in comparison 
to its size, it gallops over them at a thousand times 
greater proportional speed than the swiftest race- 
horse*. 

As a contrast to the quick moving insects just 
mentioned, we may turn for a moment to those which 
move very slowly. The hunting spiders, though they 
can dart with the rapidity of lightning upon their 
prey, yet take care to approach a victim with such 
extraordinary caution, that the shadow upon a sun-dial 
advances not more imperceptibly t. Some of the 
beetles again move very slowly, particularly the one 
popularly called the oil-beetle (Proscarab (BU s vul~ 
Stephens), on account of the oily-looking 
fluid which oozes out from it when seized or alarmed. 
The unwieldy bulk of this animal makes it almost 
painful to look at the efforts it apparently has to 
make as it lumbers along. It always reminds us 
of those bees which, during autumn, may often be 
seen crawling lifelessly upon flowers, as if so over- 
gorged with the honey which they had extracted, that 
they are unfit to fly. How the oil-beetle becomes 
so fat, it is not easy to say, when we consider that it 
feeds upon plants, and is seen very early in spring. 
After the severe winter of 18:29-30, we found several, 
in the beginning of March, feeding on the bulbous- 
rooted buttercup (Ranunculus biilbosus), at Charl- 
ton, in Kent, and as plump as if there had not been 
a day’s frost during the winter. 

Another very common insect, popularly called the 
bloody-nosed beetle (Timarcha ienebricosa, Me- 
gerle), from its ejecting a red fluid from its mouth 
when caught, is one of the very slow walkers ; but 
? J.E. j- Insect Architecture, p. 355, 

2 r 2 






it is furnished with feet most admirably contrived for 
taking hold of the catchweed {Galium Apariue)^ 
and other trailing plants, on which it feeds. This 
contrivance consists of cushions, formed of a slightly 
concave mass of thick soft hair, which both adheres 
by its points, and also produces somewhat of a va- 
cuum, which enables it to walk as easily with its head 
perpendicularly downwards as upwards. 

The most perfect contrivance of this kind, however, 
occurs in the domestic fly {Musca domestica), and 
its congeners, as well as in several other insects. 
Few can have failed to remark, that flies walk with 
the utmost ease along the ceiling of a room, and no less 
so upon a perpendicular looking-glass ; and though 
this were turned downwards, the flies would not fall 
off, but could maintain their position undisturbed 
with their backs hanging downwards. The conjectures 
devised by naturalists, to account for this singular 
circumstance, previous to the ascertaining of the 
actual facts, are not a little amusing. “ Some sup- 
pose,’^ says the Abbe de la Pluche, “ that when the 
fly marches over any polished body, on which neither 
her claws nor her points can fasten, she sometimes 
compresses her sponge and causes it to evacuate a 
fluid, which fixes her in such a manner as prevents 
her falling without diminishing the facility of her 
progress; but it is much more probable, that the 
sponges correspond with the fleshy balls which ac- 
company the claws of dogs and cats and that they 
enable the fly to proceed with a softer pace, and con- 
tribute to the preservation of its claws, whose pointed 
extremities would soon be impaired without this 
prevention t.*’ — “ Its ability to walk on glass, says 
S. Shaw, “ proceeds partly from some little rugged- 
ness thereon, but chiefly from a tarnish, or dirty 

* See Menageries, Lib. of Entertain. Knowl. vol, i. p. 173. 
f Spect. cle la Nat. vol. i. p. 116. 






smoky substance, adhering to the surface; so that, 
though the sharp points on the sponges cannot pene- 
trate the surface of the glass, it may easily catch hold 
of the tarnish*.** This is evidently borrowed from 
Hookf. But it is singular that none of these fanciers 
ever took the trouble to ascertain the existence of 
either a gluten squeezed out by the fly, or of the 
smoky tarnish on glass. Even the shrewd Reaumur 
could not give a satisfactory explanation of the 
circumstance. 

The earliest correct notion on this curious subject 
was entertained by Derham, who, upon mentioning 
the provision made for insects that hang on smooth 
surfaces, says, “ I might here name divers flies and 
other insects, who, besides their sharp-hooked nails, 
have also skinny palms to their feet to enable them 
to stick to glass and other smooth bodies, by means 
of the pressure of the atmosphere — after the manner 
as I have seen boys carry heavy stones with only a 
wet piece of leather clapped on the top of the stonej.” 
The justly celebrated Mr. White, of Selborne, ap- 
parently without the aid of microscopical investiga- 
tion, adopted Derham’s opinion, adding the interest- 
ing illustration, that in the decline of the year, when 
the flies crowd to Avindows and become sluggish and 
torpid, they are scarcely able to lift their legs, which 
seem glued to the glass, where many actually stick 
till they die; whereas they are, during warm weather, 
so brisk and alert that they easily overcome the 
pressure of the atmosphere §. 

This singular mechanism, however, is not peculiar 
to flies, for some animals, a hundred times as large, 
can walk upon glass by the same means. St. Pierre 

? Nature Displ. vol. iii. p. 98. Lond. 1823. 
j- Micrographia, p. 170. 

J Physico-Theology, vol.ii. p. 194, note (6), 11th ed. 

§ Nat. Hist, of Selborne, vol. ii. p. 274. 

2 l3 






mentions a very small handsome lizard, about a 
finger’s length, which climbs along the walls, and 
even along glass, in pursuit of hies and other in- 
sects*;” and Sir Joseph Banks noticed another 
lizard, named the gecko (Lacerta Gecko^ Linn.) which 
could walk against gravity, and which made him 
desirous of having the subject thoroughly investigated. 
On mentioning it to Sir Everard Home, he and Mr. 
Bauer commenced a series of researches, by which 
they proved incontrovertibly, that in climbing upon 
glass, and walking along the ceilings with the back 
downwards, a vacuum is produced by a particular 
apparatus in the feet, sufficient to cause atmospheric 
pressure upon their exterior surface. 

The apparatus in the feet of the fly consists of two 
or three membranous suckers connected with the last 
joint of the foot by a narrow neck, of a funnel shape, 
immediately under the base of each claw, and move- 
able in all directions. These suckers are convex 
above and hollow below the edges, being margined 
with minute serratures, and the hollow portion 
covered with down. In order to produce the vacuum 
and the pressure, these membranes are separated and 
expanded, and when the fly is about to lift its foot, 
it brings them together, and folds them up as it were 
between the two claws. By means of a common 
microscope, these interesting movements may be 
observed when a fly is confined in a wine-glass f. 

It is a very remarkable analogy, that many flying 
insects, as well as many birds, instead of walking, 
leap or hop along somewhat in the manner of a 
kangaroo or a jerboa. But the most common and 
best known instance of a leaping insect, is the flea 
(Pulex irritans)^ whose wings are, according to 
Kirby, obsolescent. The structure of this annoying 

* Voyage to the Tsie of France, p. 73. 

f Philosoph, Trans, for 1816, p. 325. 






Feet of the blue-bottle fly, 6400 times. A, a view of the under 

side of the last joint of the toe, with the two suckers expanded, as seen 
when the fly is walking against gravity. B, side of ditto. 



^ Feet of the hihio febrilts^ C^ATR.Omagnified 6400 times. A, the under 
side of the last joint of the toe, with the three suckers expanded. B, 
side view of ditto. 



 


creature is well fitted for its mode of life — it being 
furnished with so tough a skin that it is no easy 
matter to crush it, while it is so smooth that it would 
almost glide through a pin-hole. The extraordinary 
muscular power of the thighs, again, combined with 
their elasticity, enable it to perform most astonishing 
leaps, as we have remarked in a preceding page ; 
while its comparative lightness and the toughness of 
its skin prevent it from receiving any injury, from 
whatever height it may fall. It is very doubtful, 
indeed, as it appears to us, whether it observes the 
good old proverb of looking before it leaps, for we 
have seen fleas leap from the bottom of a deep pill- 
box, where they could not possibly perceive whither 
they were leaping It may not be out of place here to 
mention, that fleas (Piilicidip?) undergo similar trans- 
formations to other insects, laying their eggs at the 
roots of the hair of animals, the feathers of birds, or 
in woollen stuffs. These, in a few days, produce a 
minute whitish grub, which, in warm weather 
changes to a perfect flea in about six weeks : as may 
be verified by whoever will take the trouble of en- 
closing some female fleas, which are always the 
largest, in glass tubes, and feeding them with flies or 
raw beef, as was done by ROsel, De Geer, and many 



Flea magnified, to allow the moseular atructoie of the leai* 
• J.B. 






others. Mr. Stephens enumerates no less than twelve 
species, from which it appears that those found on 
the dog, the pigeon, and other animals, are quite 
ditferent from the common flea, and it is probable 
these will not readily pass from their natural habit to 
infest us, as is commonly believed. 

The extraordinary power of leaping in grasshoppers 
and their congeners is matter of common observa- 
tion. The motion is ettected by means of very 
strong muscles with which the hind thighs are fur- 
nished ; and it is a similar structure which enables the 
frog-hoppers {CercojyidcB, Leach), so common on 
plants during summer, to perform leaps of extraor- 
dinary extent, in which, however, they have likewise 
the assistance of their wings. Some species make 
use of their faculty of leaping to escape from their 
enemies, as well as for the purpose of changing 
place, while others use it to spring upon their prey. 
Among the former we may mention a family 
of small insects (Poduridm, Leach), some of them 
inhabiting water or damp places, though most of the 
species are found under decaying bark or vegetable re- 
fuse. The one that is most likely to attract attention 
is a very small gregarious one, the water spring-tail 
(Podura aquatica)^ which may often be seen, during 
the summer, crowded upon the rain-water collected 
in the footsteps of cattle, the ruts of cart-wheels, or 
by the edges of small ponds, and looking precisely 
as if one had strewed about a handful of coal-ashes 
or gunpowder ; but, though at first glance they seem 
inanimated, closer inspection will show that they are 
in active motion, and particularly if they be alarmed 
— leaping about and upon one another, and on the 
water, like so many minute fire-works. Those which 
are solitary are much larger, among which we may 
mention the velvet spring-tail {Podura holosericea)^ 
of which we here give a magnified figure, to shew 





the spring in the tail, by means of which it leaps* 
jerking it downwards and outwards from its body as 
the flea does its legs. 



Leaping position of the velvet spring-tail, magnified. 

Amongst the insects which spring upon their prey 
like the cat and the lion, the most commonly observed 
is the little hunting spider {Salticusi scenicus) , whose 
zebra stripes of white and brown render it easily 
discovered on our window-frames and palings*. 
But all the spiders — even those which form webs — 
are accustomed to spring in a similar way upon what 
they have caught ; and when we are told of the 
gigantic American one {My gale avicularia), which 
even makes prey of small birds {Trochilidee), the 
necessity of extraordinary agility must be obvious; 
for these tiny birds are described to move with 
almost the velocity of light, — the eye, notwithstand- 
ing the brilliancy of their metallic colours, being 
frequently baffled in tracking their flight. The 
spider itself, however, being three inches in length, 
one and a half in breadth, and eleven inches in the 
expansion of its legs, is little less than the bird upon 
which it pounces, as may be seen from the following 
figure, taken from the splendid work of Madame 
Merian upon the insects of Surinam. 

All animals which fly are furnished with powerful 
muscles for moving their wings, in the same way as 
the limbs of those which leap are similarly provided ; 

?^See Insect Architecture, p. 355. 






My gale avicularia, rom Madame Merian. 


and we may, therefore, remark, in passing, that any 
invention for enabling men to fly must take the 
comparative weakness of our muscles into primary 
consideration. Let any one try merely to stretch out 
his arm as a hawk, or a swift fly {Fotucplla), does its 
wings, when hovering apparently motionless in the 
air, — and the quick recurrence of weariness, speedily 
increasing to pain, will atford unequivocal jjroof ot 
the apparently exhaustless vigour of their volitant 
muscles, compared with ours. It would be no very 
difficult matter to give voluminous illustrations on 
this curious subject. A French naturalist, M. C ha- 
brier, has actually written an elaborate quarto vo- 
lume, on the flight of insects*. Though Chabrier 
has unquestionable talents of the first order for re- 
search, it is unfortunate that he permits his fancy to 
travel somewhat beyond the boundaries of fact ; and 
to this, no doubt, we are to ascribe his retracting his 
* Essai 8ur le Vol d«5 Insectes, 4lo. Paris, 1801. 


 


former opinions on the fligfht of insects ; yet it might 
have been supposed, that in writing so voluminously 
on the subject, he had left no point uninvestigated. 
Nothing, however, can be more praiseworthy than 
the candour (not very common in such cases) with 
which Chabrier corrects his own mistake. 

In the two-winged flies {Dipterd) Chabrier de- 
scribes two sets of Ihuscular ribbons for putting the 
wings in play — the dorsal^ placed lengthwise, and 
used to lower the wings, and the stcrno-dorsal^ placed 
obliquely across these for raising the wings. In the 
dragon-flies {Libcllulina) , again, the disposition is 
somewhat different, the sterno-dorsal muscles being 
placed intermediate, while another set of powerful 
muscles, called pectoral^ are placed lengthwise, and 
are inserted immediately into the wings. In his first 
work, our autlior thought these muscles acted sepa- 
rately, but he now says they act in concert; and he 
is not now inclined to ascribe, as he at first did, 
so much influence to the air in the interior of the 
body, nor to the spring of the harder parts of the 
back and breast. “ Certainly,” he adds, “ the elas- 
ticity of these parts, and the re-action of the interior 
air have their use : the fluid, particularly, contained 
in their numerous vesicles, is, perhaps, very light, and 
contributes to reduce the specific gravity of the 
insect. Besides, by enveloping the interior organs, 
it appears to me intended to protect these against 
the violent motions of flight, and to contribute to 
the expansion of the chest, dilating immediately 
after being compressed by the contraction of the 
muscles in the act of raising the wings*.” 

It will appear, from this brief abstract, that the 
subject is not a little interesting ; yet it is not so easy 
to throw it into a form likely to be understood by a 
general reader. Flying with wings, however, is a 

* M. Chabrier in Ann, des Soc. Nat., Avril 1829, p. 505. 








Majfnified views of the muscular ribbons for moving the wings 
in Sj/iphus inanit. a, part of the belly. 6, the costo dorsal mus- 
cles.* V, df the isternu dorsal, e, part of the head. 

less difficult subject of investigation than flying with- 
out wings, as is practised by the gossamer spider 
(Aranea obtextrix, Bechstein), and its congeners. 
We do not allude merely to the threads carried out 
from a spider by a current of air, till it is fixed and 
forms a bridge, along which the creature can pass, 
nor to the similar lines which are lell to float freely, 
in the case of the gossamer, without attachment*. 
We refer to the power which the spider apparently 
possesses of directing its flight. Let any one endea- 
vour to catch one of the spiders which may frequently 
be seen dropping from the ceiling of a room, the 
branch of a tree, or other elevated object, and he will 
find it no easy task to lay hold of the little web spin- 
? See Ingect Architecture, pp, 339-54, 





ner, for it will not only drop perpendicularly by 
spinning a longer thread (it seldom tries to escape 
by remounting)* but it will swing itself away from the 
approaching hand, in a manner which it seems not a 
little difficult to comprehend, for it does not move a 
limb to produce an impulse in the air, as the diving 
spider {Argyroneta aquatica) does when it moves 
through the water. In instances when no escape is 
intended, when spiders, even of considerable size, 
drop from a height, we have often seen them swing 
out of the perpendicular without any apparent aid 
from the wind. It is highly ptolmble that this 
movement is effected by some internal apparatus 
analogous to the swim-bladder of fishes; but at 
present we are not aware that anything beyond con- 
jecture has been published upon the subject. We 
may state, however, that they cannot in this manner 
move far. 





Rest of Insects. 

Mr. Bright well is reported to have once observed 
an individual living specimen of Haltica concinna, 
which appeared to remain motionless on the same 
spot of a wall for three successive days * ; but though 
this is given as something unusual, we liave made 
similar observations in the case of numerous insects 
of all orders and families. The continual stationary 
appearance, however, is, in most of such cases, quite 
fallacious. To use a familiar illustration, we might 
as well think the snail stationary which we see 
every day, perhaps for weeks together, coiled up in 
the same niche of the garden-wall, as if it were glued 
to the spot, and had never moved from it a hair’s- 
breadth, — were it not that the depredations committed 
upon a contiguous lettuce, prove that it does not 
always sleep, though its excursions from its chosen 
niche, as they take place only at night, are seldom, if 
ever, observed. Like a very large portion of the 
whole insect world, snails always sleep throughout the 
day, unless roused by an accidental shower of rain, 
which tempts them to banquet on the refreshed 
herbage. Upon butterflies, and some other day insects, 
again, the occurrence of rain or cloudy weather 
usually operates like a continuance or a renewal of 
night ; and this seems to happen even in-doors, where 
the air is warm and comparatively dry. We had a 
female of the brimstone butterfly {Gonepteryx 
Rhamni) in our study, which we were desirous of 
? Kirby and Spence, Intr, vol. iv. p. 193. 




having deposit her eggs on a plant of the buckthorn 
{Rhamnus franguld)^ which we had placed in a 
garden-pot for this purpose ; and we remarked that 
she manifested no inclination to move from the same 
leaf, except for an hour or two in the forenoon, and 
when it was damp or cloudy, not even then. If 
disturbed in her repose, she would fall down as if life- 
less, and continue her sleep — (if sleep it was), without 
being awakened by the fall, till her regular period of 
animation returned. 

We have used the qualifying phrase — “ if sleep it 
was;” because the rest of insects, though correspond- 
ing, in the circumstance of remaining without motion, 
with the sleep of the larger animals, may not agree 
in any other respect, — and particularly in the 
quiescence of the senses. In the important point of 
the state of the brain, it does not appear how there 
could be any agreement in the phenomenon ; as may 
be inferred from comparing the structure of insects, 
as respects their nerves and blood-vessels, with that 
of man. 

Insects, though possessed of nerves, have nothing 
similar to our brain and spinal cord, the two sources 
of our nerves of feeling and of motion, as so beauti- 
fully explained by the recent discoveries of Mr. Charles 
Bell. Instead of this, they have a chain of what are 
called ganglia, or bundles of nervous substance, and 
from each of these bundles nerves branch out to the 
parts contiguous, — each ganglion forming the centre 
of feeling to the parts to which its nerves run ; and 
hence it is that insects will live, and (so far as we 
can perceive) feel comparatively little general pain 
and inconvenience from the loss of their limbs or 
even of their heads. Thus the tail of a wasp or a 
bee will sting long after it is severed from the body, 
and the head of a dragon-fly will eat as voraciously 
fifter it is Qut oft‘, as if it had to supply an insatiable 


 


fitomach, — phenomena easily accounted for from the 
want of a brain, and from each ganglion having it# 
own set of nerves. This may be better understood by 
looking at the central chain of ganglia in the larva of 
the day-fly before figured*. 

Insects again differ from man in having no heart 
nor circulating blood, at least so far as has hitherto 
been discovered f. Dr. Carus, of Dresden, is, indeed, 
at present endeavouring to establish a claim to the dis- 
covery of the circulation of the blood in insects ; but 
this circulation, which is most probably only partial, 
has, we think, been observed by naturalists of a former 
age. “ De Geer,” say Kirby and Spence, “ whose 
love of truth and accuracy no one will call in 
question, saw the appearance of blood-vessels in 
the leg of the larva of a caddis fly (Phryganea^ 
Linn.), as Lyonnet did in those of a flea|, and in 
the transparent thigh of the bird fly (Ornithomyia 
avicularia) he discovered a pulse like that of an 
artery §. Baker, whose only object was to record 
what he saw, speaks of the current of the blood 
being remarkably visible in the legs of some small 
bugs II; what he meant by that term is uncer- 
tain, but they could not be spiders, which he had 
just distinguished. This author has likewise seen 
a green fluid passing through the vessels of the wing^ 
of grasshoppers *![ ; and M. Chabrier is of opinion 
that insects possess the power of propelling a fluid 
into the nervures of their wings, and withdrawing it 
at pleasure, as they are elevated or depressed**: but 

? See page 139. 

f See Cuvier, Anat. Corap. vol. iv. p. 478, &c. And Marcel 
de Serres, Mem. du Mus. pour 1819. 

X Lesser, vol. ii. p. 84, note. 

§ De Geer, vol. ii. p. 505 ; vol. vi. p. 287. 

II On the Microscope, vol. i. p. 130. ^ Ibid, 

?* Sur le Vol des Inssctes. 




these two last facts must be accounted for on other 
principles, as there is clearly no circulation 

The statement recently published by one of these 
authors (Mr. Spence), respecting the alleged dis- 
covery of insect circulation by Dr. Cams, is founded 
on facts which were shown and explained to him 
by the doctor himself. “ The first insect,” says 
Mr. Spence, “ to which Dr. Cams directed my 
attention, was the larva of ephemera vulgata (or an 
allied species), in which, near to the bronchiae and 
parallel with each side of the body, was very distinctly 
visible a constant current, towards the tail, of oblong 
globules swimming in a transparent fluid, propelled 
with a regular pulsating motion ; and on cutting the 
body of the larva across near the tail, three globules 
were most plainly seen pushed out of the divided 
vessels in a distinct mass, which increased at each 
pulsation. I cannot express the pleasure which it 
gave me, to see thus clearly this ocular demonstra- 
tion of one of the most important physiological dis- 
coveries of modern times ; and my gratification was 
heightened by the next object which Dr. Cams placed 
before his microscope, viz. — a specimen of semblis 
viridis (the green lace-winged fly), in which pre- 
cisely the same phenomena, but, if possible, more 
clearly, were seen in the nervures of the wings and 
in the antennae, in both which the constant current 
of globules was most apparent ; and in the former, 
the sudden turning of these globules, at the apex of 
the wing, out of the exterior nervure into a central 
one, with which it joins and forms an acute angle, 
was equally curious and striking. On cutting off the 
end of the antennae, precisely the same emission of 
globules (which soon assume a greenish tint) took 
place as in the former case, forming a mass, which 
was increased with a sudden gush at each pulsation. 

? Introd* vol. iv. p. 86. 





Dr. Cams has observed the same phenomena in the 
wings of Semblis hilineata^ and in the elytra (wing 
cases) of Lampyris iwctiluca (the glow-worm), and 
L, Italica^ as well as in the fin-like appendages at the 
tail of the larva of Agrion puella (the damsel dragon 
fly), in which he first made the discovery, and in 
which the circulation is remarkably distinct * ” 

We apprehend, as far as we can collect from this 
description, that the alleged discovery of Dr. Carus 
does not advance a step in demonstrating a circu- 
lation in insects similar to that of other classes of 
animals ; for it is to be recollected, that the dorsal 
vessel, the only organ in insects analogous to a 
heart, although it pulsates irregularly, has no ap- 
parent arteries or veins connected with it : and 
therefore the impulsions described by De Geer, the 
current mentioned by Baker, and the phenomena 
exhibited by Carus, furnish no proof whatever of 
a general circulatory system, though they appear to 
indicate local movements in the fluids of insects, 
agreeably to the original views of Chabrier, or those 
of Swammerdam formerly quoted t. 

It may appear to some, that the preceding has but 
a very remote connexion with the subject immediately 
before us; but we shall presently show its con- 
nexion with the phenomena of insect sleep. We 
agree with Professor Blumenbach, that sleep in man 
most probably consists in a diminished or impeded 
flow of arterial blood into the brain. For example, 
if, by cold feet, a fit of passion, or a heavy supper, 
a gush of blood is forced into the brain and stag- 
nates there, the consequence will be the snoring 
death-like sleep of apoplexy; and the same will 
happen, if a blow on the head, or a fever, throws 
a quantity of blood upon the brain. Blumenbach 

? Spence in Mag. of Nat. Hist., Jan. 1830, p.49. 
t See page 343. 




had ocular demonstration of the fact contended for, 
with respect to the diminished flow of blood, in a 
man whose brain was exposed by the accidental re- 
moval of a part of the skull ; for, whenever this man 
fell asleep, the brain was seen to shrink and subside, 
but the moment he awoke a tide of blood was seen 
rushing through the vessels and swelling the brain. 
The same is also proved by the fact, that in madness 
and inflammation of the brain, when the blood flows 
rapidly, the unhappy sufferer is altogether deprived 
of sleep, unless the current of the blood is retarded 
by strong doses of opium, or by taking away a large 
quantity by the lancet. It will follow, that when the 
blood-vessels of the brain are gorged, as well as when 
they are not sufficiently full, — sleep will be equally 
produced. Force more blood into the brain than can 
find room to flow, and drowsiness, sleep, perhaps 
apoplexy, will follow; — diminish the quantity, so that 
it may lack force to keep up the current, and sleep 
will also come on. On these principles it it is that 
thinking, by bestirring the brain and driving thither a 
brisker current of blood, prevents sleep; while, 
bathing the feet in warm water, eating a moderate 
supper, or rubbing the body with a flesh-brush, by 
drawing a superabundance of blood to the feet, to the 
stomach, or to the skin, will cause sleep. Again, it 
is a general law of animated nature, for rest to suc- 
ceed fatigue, as temporary insensibility succeeds vivid 
sensations. The pain of a burn, for example, comes 
and goes alternately; and by holding out the arm 
from the body, the feeling of fatigue and pain soon 
become so insupportable, that rest cannot be dis- 
pensed with. Sleep, then, seems to be a general 
consequence of this rest after fatigue. 

Wifti regard to insects, it is evident that many of 
the above facts will not at all apply ; for as insects 
have neither a heart nor a brain, their sleep cannot 





be proximately caused by a retarded current of blood. 
We want data also for determining whether similar 
effects are produced upon the senses of insects during 
their quiescence, or apparent sleep, as take place in 
ourselves. Tlie shutting of the eye-lids, next to 
motionless rest, is one of the most obvious charac- 
teristics of sleep in man ; but in insects nothing like 
this can be observed, because they have nothing 
analogous to eye-lids. The senses of insects, indeed, 
may not sleep at all — and what renders this the more 
probable is, that in the case of gnats, crane-flies 
(Tipulide^, moths, butterflies, &c., however long they 
may have been observed to be quiescent, or sleeping, 
in the same place, they are instantly on the alert at 
the approach of danger, though no noise be made to 
alarm them *. It may serve to illustrate this state of 
wakefulness in the senses of quiescent insects, that 
the senses in man do not all sleep in the same degree 
of profundity. This very curious fact was first, we 
believe, observed by M. Cabanis, who also found 
that some of our senses and members go to sleep 
sooner than others — in proportion, it may be pre- 
sumed to their fatigue from their waking exertions, 
and to the flow of blood through them. According 
to Cabanis, then, the muscles of the legs and arms 
are the first to become drowsy, and next those that 
sustain the head, which, losing its support, falls for- 
ward ; the muscles of the back follow, and it becomes 
bent. Among the senses, the eye is the first that 
goes to sleep ; and after it the smell, taste, hearing, 
and touch, become drowsy in succession. The sense 
of touch never sleeps so profoundly as the others,— 
a fact inferred from our frequent change of position 
during sleep, which must be the consequence of 
uneasy sensations of touch. Besides this, it is well 
known that a slight tickling of the soles of the feet 
* J.R, 





will waken a person whom no noise could rouse. In 
the order of their awaking again, taste and smell are 
always last, and sight appears more difficult to awaken 
than hearing ; for a slight noise will often rouse a 
sleep-walker, who had borne an intense light on his 
unshut eyes, without seeming in the least to feel its 
influence *, 

The torpidity of insects during winter, which in 
some of its circumstances is analogous to sleep, will 
require the less to be discussed here, that we have, 
under our three former divisions of Eggs, Pupae; and 
Larvae, considered it very amply. The number of 
insects, indeed, which hybernate in the perfect state 
are comparatively few. Of the brimstone butterfly 
(Gonepteryx Rhamni), Mr. Stephens tells us the se- 
cond brood appears in autumn, “ and of the latter,*' 
he adds, “ many individuals of both sexes remain 
throughout the winter, and make their appearance on 
the first sunny day in spring. I have seen them 
sometimes so early as the middle of February t*” 
The commonly perfect state of the wings in such 
cases might, we think, lead to the contrary con- 
clusion, that the butterfly has just been evolved 
from its chrysalis. Several other species, however, 
chiefly of the genus Vanessa, do live through the 
winter in the perfect state; but this, as far as ge- 
neral observation extends, can only be affirmed 
of the female. Yet will insects bear almost incre- 
dible degrees of cold with impunity. Out of the 
multiplicity of instances of this on record we shall 
select two. In Newfoundland, Captain Buchan saw 
a lake, which in the evening was entirely still and 
frozen over, but as soon as the sun had dissolved the 
ice in the morning, it was all in a bustle of anima- 
tion, in consequence, as was discovered, of myriads 

? Cabanis, Rapports du Physique ct Moral, 
f Illustrations, vol. i. p. 9. 




of flies let loose, while many still remained “ infixed 
and frozen round.” A still stronger instance is men- 
tioned by Ellis, in which a large black mass, like 
coal or peat upon the hearth, dissolved, when thrown 
upon the fire, into a cloud of mosquitoes (^Culicidai) 

It has been remarked by most writers upon the 
torpidity of warm-blooded animals, that cold does 
not seem to be its only cause, and the same appa- 
rently holds in the case of insects. Bees, indeed, 
which remain semi-torpid during the winter, may be 
prematurely animated into activity by the occurrence 
of some days of extraordinary mildness in spring ; 
but, what is not a little wonderful and inexplicable, 
they are not roused by much milder weather when 
it occurs before Christmas, — on the same principle, 
perhaps, that a man is more easily awakened after he 
has slept six or seven hours than in the earlier part 
of the night. Immediately after the first severe frost 
in the winter of 1829-30, we dug down into the 
lower chaml>ers of a nest of the wood-ant {Formica 
rufd)j at Forest Hill, Kent, which we had thatched 
thickly with fern-leaves the preceding November, both 
to mark the spot and to protect the ants in winter. 
About two feet deep we found the little colonists all 
huddled up in contiguous separate chambers, quite 
motionless till they were exy^osed to the warm sun- 
shine, when they began to drag themselves slug- 
gishly and reluctantly along. Even upon bringing 
some of them into a warm room, they did not awaken 
into summer activity, but remained lethargic, un- 
willing to move, and refusing to eat, and continued 
in the same state of semi-torpidity till their brethren 
in the woods began to bestir themselves to repair the 
damages caused by the winter storms in the out- 
works of their encampments t- 


? Quarterly Review, April 1821, p,200, t ^ 




The younger Huber has given an interesting ac- 
count of the hybernation of ants, which differs in 
some particulars from what we have observed of the 
wood-ant ; but he speaks of ants in general. The 
subject, indeed, derives importance from the popular 
opinion, that they amass wheat and other grain as a 
winter store, having been refuted by the experiments 
of Gould and other accurate observers. “We 
have endeavoured,” says M. Huber, “ to explain 
their preservation, by supposing them to fall into a 
state of torpor at this period. They, in fact, be- 
came torpid during the intense cold, but when the 
season is not very severe, the depth of their nest 
guards them from the effects of the frost : they do 
not become torpid unless the temperature is reduced 
to the second degree of Reaumur under the freezing 
point, (27° Fahrenheit). I have occasionally seen 
them walking upon the snow, engaged in their cus- 
tomary avocations. In so reduced a temperature, 
they would be exposed to the horrors of famine, 
were they not supplied with food by the pucerons, 
who, by an admirable concurrence of circumstances, 
which we cannot attribute to chance, become torpid 
at precisely the same degree of cold as the ants, and 
recover from this state also at the same time : the 
ants, therefore, always find them when they need 
them. 

“ Those ants that do not possess the knowledge of 
the mode of assembling these insects, are, at least, 
acquainted with their retreat ; they follow them to the 
feet of the trees and the branches of the shrubs they 
before frequented, and pass at the first degree of frost 
along the hedges, following the paths which con- 
duct to these insects. They bring back to the re- 
public a small quantity of honey ; a very little sufficing 
for their support in winter. As soon as the ants 
recover from their torpid state, they venture forth to 





procure their food. The aliment contained in their 
stomach is, on their return, equally distributed to 
their companions. These juices scarcely evaporate, 
during this season, owing to the thickness of the 
honey rings investing the body. I have known ants 
preserve, during a considerable time, their interhal 
stock of provisions, when they could not impart it to 
their companions. When the cold increases in a 
gradual manner, (and this is commonly what the 
ants experience, who are screened from it by a thick 
wall of earth,) they collect and lie upon each other 
by thousands, and appear all hooked together. Is 
this done in order to provide themselves a little heat ? 
I presume this to be the case, but our thermometers 
are not sufficiently delicate to indicate if this be really 
the fact*.” 

During the frosts of 1629-30, we opened two 
nests of the yellow ant (Formica jflavd), in which we 
found the inhabitants by no means torpid or inactive, 
although not so lively as in summer; but these 
nests were in a peculiarly warm situation, being both 
in the old trunks of willows, rendered quite spong}^ 
by the dry-rot, and facing the south-west, where they 
had the benefit of every glimpse of sunshine. We 
searched with great minuteness for the eggs of the 
aphides mentioned by Huber, but without success, 
and we cannot account for their means of subsist- 
ence, unless they fed on the various insects and crus- 
taceous animals which abounded in the trees, 
(Onisciy JulidtBy &c.) They were also, in both in- 
stances, within a yard of a stream of water, to the 
vicinity of which we have observed that this species 
is partial, and it is not improbable that it may form 
an indispensable part of their subsistence. No spe- 
cies of ants, indeed, can live without drinking. In 
February of the same year, immediately after the 
* Huber on Ants, p. 239, See also this volume, pages 113-116. 




breaking up of the first fVost, we also observed num* 
bers of the small black ant {Formica fiisca) running 
about the sunny sides of hedge-banks ; and though 
we did not trace them to their winter quarters, we 
think it not improbable, from their very early appear- 
ance, that they had never been completely torpid 
The bee is popularly believed to hybernate, the seven 
winter sleepers being said to be, “the bat, the bee, the 
butterfly, the cuckoo, and the three swallows but, 
like many of the popular notions on natural history, 
this is almost wholly erroneous, for at least, out of 
these seven, the four birds certainly do not become 
torpid. With respect to the bee, again, we find some 
of the most distinguished observers at variance. 
Reaumur is an advocate for the popular opinion. 
“ It has been established,’* he says, “ with a wis- 
dom, which we cannot but admire, — with which 
everything in nature has been made and ordained, — 
that during the greater part of the time in which the 
country furnishes nothing to bees, they have no 
longer need to eat. The cold which arrests the ve- 
getation of plants — which deprives our fields and 
meadows of their flowers — throws the bees into a 
state in which nourishment ceases to be necessary to 
them : it keeps them in a sort of torpidity, in which 
no transpiration from them takes place, or at least 
during which the quantity of what transpires is so 
inconsiderable, that it cannot be restored by aliment 
without their lives being endangered. In winter, 
while it freezes, we may observe without fear the in- 
terior of hives that are not of glass ; for we may lay 
them on their sides, and even turn them bottom 
upwards, without putting any bee into motion. We 
see the bees crowded and closely pressed one against 
the other ; little space then suffices for them t-’’ — 
Again, when mentioning the custom of putting bee- 
• J.K. t Mem.v.p.667. 





hives during the winter into out-houses and cellars, 
he says, ‘‘that in such situations, the air, though 
more temperate than out of doors, during the greater 
part of the winter, is yet sufficiently cold to keep the 
bees in that species of torpidity which does away 
with the necessity of their eating He also says, 
positively, that the milder the weather, the more risk 
there is of the bees consuming their honey before the 
spring, and dying of hunger ; confirming his posi- 
tion by an account of a striking experiment, in 
which .a hive that he transferred during winter into 
his study, where the temperature was usually, in the 
day, 10° or 12° of Rt^aumur’s thermometer above 
freezing, or 59° Fahrenheit, though the bees were pro- 
vided with a plentiful supply of honey, that if they 
had been in a garden would have served past the 
end of April, had consumed nearly their whole stock 
before the end of February t. 

But the elder Huber records some observations 
directly opposed to these, affirming unequivocally, 
that, so far from being torpid in \^dnter, the heat in a 
well peopled hive is as high as 25° Rt^aumur, or 86° 
Fahrenheit, even when the thermometer in the open 
air is several degrees below zero, the heat thus ob- 
served being generated in the hive by their clustering 
together, and keeping themselves in motion ; and 
even in the middle of winter they may be heard 
buzzing as they always do when ventilating the 
hive, — a process which appears to have been origi- 
nally discovered by Huber, and of which, on account 
of its connexion with the disputed question before us, 
we shall give his own description : 

“ During fine weather,” (in summer), says he, “ a 
certain number of bees always appear before the en- 
trance of the hive occupied in vibrating their wings, 
but still more are found to be engaged in ventilating 
* Mem. voL v. p. 682. f Ib. vol. v. p. 668. 




the interior. The ordinary place of ventilation is on 
the board ; those outside of the entrance have their 
heads towards it ; those within have them in the 
opposite direction. 

‘‘ We may affirm that they arrange themselves re- 
gularly to ventilate more at ease, thus forming files, 
which terminate at the entrance, and sometimes dis- 
posed like ; so many diverging rays. This order is 
not uniform, but is probably owing to the necessity 
for the ventilating bees ^ving way to those going 
and coming, whose rapid course compels them to 
range themselves in a file, to avoid being hurt or 
overthrown every instant. 

“ Sometimes above twenty bees ventilate at the 
bottom of a hive, at other times their number is 
more circumscribed, and their employment of various 
duration. We have seen them engaged in it during 
twenty-five minutes, only taking breath, as it were, 
by the shortest interruption of the vibration. On 
ceasing, they are succeeded by others, so that there 
is never any intermission of the buzzing of a popu- 
lous hive. 

“ If under the necessity of ventilating during 
winter, being then united near the centre of the mass 
towards the top of their dwelling, doubtless the bees 
perform this important function among vacuities of 
the irregular combs, where there is room for their 
wings to expand, as at least half an inch is requisite 
for them to play freely. 

“ The ventilation of the bees, or the buzzing 
which denotes it, seems to me more active during 
winter than at any other time. It was easy to prove 
that this operation established a current of air ; for 
anemometers of light paper or cotton, hung by a 
thread, were impelled towards the entrance and re- 
pelled from it with equal rapidity. The action on 
them never was entirely interrupted, and its force 





appeared proportional to the number of bees &iming 
themselves. 

If some cultivators of bees shut up the entrance 
of their hives in winter without prejudice to the bees, 
it must be considered that the air will penetrate 
through the straw composing them. 1 confided an 
experiment on this to M. Burnens, then at a dis- 
tance from me. Having closed down a very popu* 
Ions straw hive fast on its board, he found that a 
piece of the finest paper, suspended by a hair before 
the entrance, oscillated above an inch off the perpen- 
dicular line. He poured liquid honey through an 
opening in the top, when a buzzing soon began, and 
a tumult increasing within, several bees departed. 
The oscillations now became stronger and more fre- 
quent. His experiments were made at three o’clock, 
the sun shining and the thermometer in the shade 
standing at 44®*.” 

Swammerdam also seems to indicate that bees 
remain active during the winter, and in order to 
enable them to bear its inclemency, they both fortify 
their hive and provide a store of honey. “ The order,” 
he says, “ in which bees that live in the winter 
months conduct themselves is this ; they first open 
the cells and eat the honey deposited in the lowest 
part of the hive, ascending by degrees to the upper 
parts. This they do in order to preserve a mutual 
warmth between them ; and the female deposits her 
eggs in the little cells as they are emptied. There- 
fore I discovered both stock and nymphs about the 
beginning of March. Let no one be surprised at 
this, since towards the beginning of August I have 
seen some thousand eggs enclosed in the ovary of a 
female bee ; so that it is natural for the bees at any 
time of the year to lay their eggs and increase their 
family t**’ 

Huber on Bees, p. 295. f Book of Nature, i. 160. 




John Hunter, whose authority stands as high as 
any on record, found a hive to grow lighter in a cold 
than in a warm week of winter, and that a hive, from 
November 10th till February 9th, lost more than 
four pounds in weight* , a loss which could not well 
be ascribed to evaporation. 

These discrepancies among naturalists so distin- 
guished as both shrewd and faithful observers, forbid 
us, we think, to come to any decided conclusion on the 
subject, till further researches and experiments have 
been made. It is not improbable, however, that the 
truth lies in the middle between the two extremes, — 
for it is quite accordant with what we know both of 
insects and other animals, that a high degree of cold 
should render them torpid, while they may continue 
active if there should be a certain degree of warmth. 
The following observations by the ingenious Mr. 
Gough, of Manchester, form an interesting illustra- 
tion of this curious subject with respect to another 
insect 

“ Those,” says he, “ who have attended to the 
manners of the hearth cricket {Acheta domesticd) 
know that it passes the hottest part of the summer 
in sunny situations, concealed in the crevices of walls 
and heaps of rubbish. It quits its summer abode 
about the end of August, and fixes its residence by 
the fireside of kitchens or cottages, where it mul- 
tiplies its species, and is as merry at Christmas as 
other insects in the dog-days. Thus do the comforts 
of a warm hearth afford the cricket a safe refuge, 
not from death, but from temporary torpidity, which 
it can support for a long time, when deprived by 
accident of artificial warmth. — I came to the know- 
ledge of this fact,” continues Mr. Gough, “ by plant- 
ing a colony of these insects in a kitchen, where a 
constant fire was kept through the summer, but 
* Phil. TransJor 1790, p. 161. 





which is discontinued from November tillJune,with 
the exception of a day once in six or eight weeks. The 
crickets were brought from a distance, and let go in 
this room, in the beginning of September, 1806 ; 
here they increased considerably in the course of two 
months, but were not heard or seen after the fire was 
removed. Their disappearance led me to conclude 
that the cold had killed them ; but in this 1 was 
mistaken ; for a brisk fire being kept up for a whole 
day in the winter, the warmth of it invited my colony 
from their hiding-place, but not before the evening : 
after which they continued to skip about and chirp 
the greater part of the following day, when they 
again disappeared ; being compelled, by the return- 
ing cold, to take refuge in their former retreats. 
They left the chimney corner on the 25th of May, 
1807,. after a fit of very hot weather, and revisited 
their wiixter residence on the 31st of August. Here 
they spent the summer merely, and lie torpid at 
present (January 1808) in the crevices of the chim- 
ney, with the exception of those days on which they 
are recalled to a temporary existence by the comforts 
of a fire 

* Reeve, Essay on the Torpidity of Animals, p. 84. 



[The subject of Insects will be completed in a Third 
Volume, which will comprise many Miscellaneous 
Facts that were not capable of being classed under 
the heads of “ Insect Architecture,’’ or “ Insect 
Transformations with directions for the collection 
and preservation of Insects for purposes of study ; 
and a popular account of the various Systems of 
Classification.] 






Page 

Comparative fignres of a bee and a syrphus 

Cell of a queen of the Termites bellicosit broken open in front  

Ihc labourers surrounding the queen, and carrying off the eggs 

Groups of eggs of the rose-leaf roller on a pane of glass 

Plants of sphofrohulus, natural size .

Ditto, magnihed view .. 

 Ditto, sectional view, with the seed just previous (o projection .

 Ditto, with the seed in the act of projection 

 Ditto, immediately after projection 

 Microscopic views of apple and pear mould . 

. Kggs of a butterfly and of a moth, magnified 

. Magnified egg of the angle-shades moth 

 Sea egg, natural size .. 

 Egg of the meadow brown butterfly, magnified  

 Egg of the briinstone moth, magnified 

 Dung-fiy, with its eggs magnified, and mode of deposition 

 Lace-winged fly, and position of its eggs on a twig of lilac 

 Ichneumon fly, with its ovipositor, magnified 

. Ichneamon flies ovipositing

. Generation of ichneumons, seven figures

 Magnified view of a parasite fly (^Evania apendigaster) 

 'Bee pAraaite (^Stglops Melittof) 

 Leaf-mining maggots and fly, four figures  

 Gnats forming their egg-boats 

 Magnified view of the boat of gnats’ eggs  

Female gypsey moths, and modes of depositing their eggs, four 

figures 

Females of the brown and gold-tailed moths, two figures .

 Tweezers of the brown and gold tailed moths, magnified, two 

figures 

 Spiral groups of eggs of an unknown moth .

 Eggs of the lackey moth wound spirally round a twig of hawthorn, 

natural size and magnified, two figures 

 Eggs of the coccus, covered with down, and with the bodies of the 

mothers 

 Magnified cochenille insects, male and female, two figures

 Eggs of the hawthorn coccus, covered by the body of the dead 

mother 

 Ditto, one of these magnified

 Section of ditto, showing the eggs within 

 Suspended spiders’ nests, three figures  

 VapourcT moth, male and female, and deposition of eggs, three figures
 Drum of the ear, shewing that there is no passage through it to 

the brain 

38. Chequered blow fly 






Abdomen of dittOy opened and magnified, shewing the coil of 

young larvn ib. 

Coil of larva of ditto, partly unwound ib. 

 Large grey blow-fly, with the abdomen opened, shewing the young 

maggots

 Breathing apparatus of the maggot of a large grey blow-fly . ib. 

 Spider flies, two figures 

Generation of a water-mite, four figures 

 Hatching of the egg of the garden spider, four figures 

 Egg of the privet hawk moth, magnified, shewing the inclosed 

embryo 125 

 Caterpillar of ditto, when grown 

 Construction of eggs to facilitate the escape of the larvae, three 

figures 

. Supposed animal and vegetable metamorphoses  

 Egg of the large cabbage butterfly 

 Embryo butterflies as they appear in the bodies of caterpillars, 

two figures

 Female of the perfect cabbage butterfly .... ib. 

 Magnified view of a section of the bud of a laburnum . 

 Section of a bean-seed ib. 

 Seed-leaves, root, and first true leaf of the beech • • . ib. 

 Dissection of the water grub of a May-fly . 

 Caterpillars of the Clifden nonpareil feeding on the grey poplar  

Ditto, in a more advanced stage of growth  

 Wnlking-leaf insect, magnified 

 Transformations of the brimstone moth  

. Caterpillars of the swallow-tailed moth 

 A two- winged fly (Foluceilapiumata)  

 Transformations of the puss moth  

 Lobster caterpillar 

Aquatic pubs of gnats in a glass vessel of water 

Larv» of the common gnat, floating in water, two figures 

 Buoy-like structure in the tail of a water-grub of a two-winged fly 

 Telescopic-tailed water larvae, three figures

WAter-worms, two figures 

 Grub of the dragon-fly, and various parts of its body magnified, 

five figures 

 Mask of the dragon-fly grub, four figures 

 Moulting of caterpillars, and magnified views of parts, ten figures 

 Exuvia and pulmonary vessels of the rhinoceros beetle 

 Goat moth caterpillar escaping from a drinking-glass . 

 Magnified view of the dorsal muscles of the upper half of the oossus

 Caterpillar of cossus escaping from under a loaded glass 

 Methods used by spiders and caterpillars for ascending their 

threads

 Caterpillar of the tiger-moth, two figures

 Grub of the museum beetle, natural size and magnified, two figures ib. 

. Tail of ditto, magnified 

 Hairs of ditto, magnified, two figures . 

 Thorny hairs of caterpillars, three figures 

. Green Wtoise beetle {Cam'da 

 Grub of ditto, magnified, to shew its anal forks .. 

 Grub of ditto, with its canopy of excrements  

Spit frog-hopper, and froth covering the grub of the same, two 

figures 

 Caterpillar of the drinker moth, two figures  

 Caterpillar of the angle-shades moth ib. 






 Moth of ditto ih. 

Viscera of the cosaust two figures

Caterpillar of KanesM itrticee, magnified .... 

 Intestines of ditto ib. 

Intestinal canals of the caterpillar, pupae, and butterfijr, five figures  

 Buff-tip caterpillar, and moth of ditto, two figures .

 Encampment of the caterpillar of the small ermine on the Siberian 

crab .

 Transformations of the gamma moth, five figures 

. Saw-fly of the gooseberry, and caterpillars, four figures 

 Caterpillar of the saw-fly {Nematus Caprca) on the osier  

 Caterpillar of the saw-fly (Selandria mni) on the alder . 

 Transformations of the grain moth, seven figures .  

 Transformations of the honeycomb moth, seven figures . 

 Transformations of the cockchafer, nine figures . 

. Wire-worm and click beetle 

 Zaltrus gibbus 

. Melolont/ui rujicornia ib. 
. Corn weevil 
 Meal-worm, and the beetle produced from it . 

 Transformations of the tabby moth, six figures . 

Intestinal worms, three figures

 Churchyard beetle, in the grub and perfect state, four figures 

. Nut and apple-tree beetles, eight figures 

. Bark mined in rays by beetle grubs 

 Locust 

 Ovipositor and eggs of the crane-fly 

Crane fly ovipositing, and the larva beneath in the earth feeding 

upon grass roots 

. Germination of a grain of wheat 

 Transformation of the wheat-fly, three figures 

 The Hessian fly . 

 The Markwick fly 

 Transformations of the cheese-hopper, seven figures 
 Transformations of Bibio hortulanus^ six figures 
. Transformations of the lady-bird, six figures 
 Transformations of the lace-winged fly and syrphus, five figures 
 Cateipillar of Vanessa Antiopay three figures 
 Suspended caterpillar of Vanessa Antiopa splitting its skin for 

the evolution of the chrysalis, four figures .
. Chrysalides of Vanessa urticee suspended, w'ith the anal hooks 

magnified, and old skin fallen off, four figures .
 Black-veined white butterfly, caterpillar, and chrysalis, three 

figures 

Caterpillar and chrysalis of swallow- tailed butterfly, three- 

figures 

 Pupae of blow-fly and syrphus, four figures 

 Transformations of the gnat (Corct/tra pfumtcomis), six figures

 Pupa of chameleon fly, three figures  

 Pupa of lappit moth, three figures 

Chrysalis of Gonepteryx li/tamni 

 Tapa of Laria fascelina ? 

 F uyifi of Sphinx Ligustri . 

 Spiracles of pupae, two figures

 Pupae of the gnat and Tipula . four figures

 Transformations of CV«ronoi»«sjj/ttnwm, four figures 

. Case fly, with the pupa, and the grate-works of the opening of 

the latter, four fibres


 

.

Fapm o( Coitnt wnd JEgfiria 

TlieOy and ^pa of the ant-lion, foai' figures 
Transformation of the dragon-fly, five figures

Blow-fly, magnified, two fignre

Wings of insects, shewing the nervnres, six figures 

Twenty. plume moth, two figures 345 

'^i^plume moth ib. 

Specimens of deformed batterflies and moth, three figures 
Red sptder, and the head, magnified, two figures  

Head of the garden spider magnified

PAalangium, 

Hydrometra stagnorum^ magnified. 

Floiaria vagahunda, magnified 

iVetdes magnified 

Hydrometra^ta^nortim, natural size 

J^dracAaajjf&o^rajsAtc'O, magnified, two figures 

Velia rivulorum ib. 

Jtt/ia terrestns, two figures 

Oil-beetle

Nycterihia Hermanni  

Feet of the fly, greatly magnified, four figures 

Flea, magnified 

Velvet spring-tail, magnified 

American snider (Mygale avwularia) destroying a bird 

Muscular ribbons for moving the wings in JSyi'phus inanis, mag- 
nified, two figures 

Syrphus  






