


PREFACE 



These books are intended to interest children in 
country life. They are written in the simplest language, 
so as to be fit for each class to read aloud. But 
the information given in them requires explanation 
and illustration by the teacher. I have, in fact, tried 
to make each lesson the groundwork for oral teaching, 
in the course of which the children should be en- 
couraged to observe, to bring in specimens, and to ask 
questions. Then when the chapter is read and re-read, 
as is the case with most school books, it will become 
part of the child's own knowledge. 

No one can be more aware than I am how very 
slight these outlines arc, and how much more might 
have been given if space permitted. But I hope that 
rnuch is suggested, and a teacher who loves nature 
will fill in the gaps. 

The charming illustrations will enable the children 
to identify the animals and plants mentioned. 

ARABELLA B. BUCKLEY 

(Mrs. Fisheh). 



CONTENTS. 



LESSON Book I.— WILD LIFE IN WOODS AND FIELDS 

INTRODUCTION 

I. Spiders on the Common 

II. The Woodpecker's Nest 



PAOB 

. 5 

. 6 

. 10 

III. Spring Flowers 14 

IV. A Family of Squirrels , 17 

V. The Skylark and her Enemy 1? 

VI. Nuts and Nut-eaters 23 

VII. The Mouse and the Shrew 29 

VIII. The Ant-hill • , ... 32 

IX. The Humble Bee's Nest 35 

X. Peters Cat 39 

XI. The Greedy Stranger 43 

XII. The Mole and his Home 46 

Book IL— BY POND AND RIVER. 

t. A FRoa's Life 5 

IL The Dragon-fly and his Companionship 8 

III. Down Below , . . 13 

IV. The Stickleback's Nest 15 

V. The Kingfisher .... 19 

VI. The Water-rat, or Water-vole 22 

VII. The Water-hen and the Coot 27 

VIII. The Water-bugs ... 30 

IX. Along the River 33 

X. The Otter Family 38 

XL Flowers for the Show 41 

XII. Peggy's Water-plants 45 

Book IIL— PLANT LIFE IN FIELD AND GARDEN. 

I. The Shepherd's Purse 5 

II. The Work Done by Leaves 7 

IIL The Story op a Turnip 13 

IV. How a Seed Grows 17 

V. Making New Seeds 22 

VI. How Insects Help 26 

VII. Seed-boxes which we Eat as Vegetables . . . .32 

VIII. The Cabbage Plant 38 

IX. How Plants Defend Themselves -40 

X. Wild Flowehs and Garden Flowers . . . ... 47 

XL The Rose Family .50 

XII. The Dead-nettle and the Pea-flower ..... 56 

XIII. Climbing Plants 59 

XIV. How Plants Store Food 66 

XV. Underground Vegetables . 70 

XVI. How SEBD3 Travel . 7H 



17 CONTENTS. 

LES30N Book IV.— BIEDS OF THE AIR. paqb 

I. Birds "We Know 5 

' II. The Song of Birds ... 8 

III. The Nests of Birds 13 

IV. Birds' Eggs 17 

V. Baby Birds 23 

VI. Birds Feeding their Young . , 27 

VII. Where do Birds Sleep? . , 33 

VIII. Feeding in Summer 30 

IX. Migrating in Autumn 44 

X. Bird-food in Winter 50 

XI. Other Small Birds 56 

XII. Birds of Prey 60 

XIII. Rooks and their Companions 65 

XIV. Web-footed Birds 70 

XV. Bird Enemies 76 

Book V.— TREES AND SHRUBS. 

I. The Value of Trees 5 

II. How a Tree Starts 11 

III. How a Tree Grows— The Hokse-Chestnut .... 16 

IV. Trees with Catkin Flowers 21 

V. The British Oak 26 

VI. Guests of the Oak 32 

VII. The Beech and the Sweet Chestnut 38 

VIII. Trees which bear Conks 43 

IX. Hedgerow Shrubs and Trees ....... 50 

X. Garden Shrubs in Bloom 57 

XI. The Ash and the Elm 63 

XII. In the Park 69 

XIII. Leaves— Their Shape and Position 75 

Book VI.— INSECT LIFE. 

I. What is an Insect ? 5 

II. Parts of a Caterpillar 12 

III. Familiar Moths 16 

IV. Familiar Butterflies 23 

V. Injurious Beetles. . . 27 

VI. Useful Beetles ... ...... 34 

VII. Wasps and their Ways 41 

VIII. SOUTARY Beks ... 49 

IX. Hive-Bees 55 

X. The Two- winged Flies . - 63 

XI. Crickets and Grasshoppebs .67 

XII. Ants and their Honey-cows 76 

Scientific Names op Orders ok Insects, with Explanation - : 80 





We three friends, Peter, Peggy, and Paul, 
walk to school together every day. We all 
love flowers and animals, and each day we try 
to find something new. 

Peter is a little boy. He can only just read. 
But he has sharp eyes. He sees most things 
in the hedges. Peggy's father is a gamekeeper. 
She knows the birds and where to find their 
nests. Paul comes from the farm. He is a big 
boy and will soon be a teacher. 

We meet at the big pond under the elm 
trees. Then we walk along a narrow lane, 
across the common, through the wood, and over 
three fields to the village school. 

In the pond we find all kinds of creatures. 
In the lane are beetles and mice, flowers and 
berries, biids' nests and wasps' nests. On the 




common the spiders spin their webs on the 
yellow gorse. In the ploughed field the lark 
hides her nest. In the grass field there are 
buttercups and daisies. In the cornfield there 
are poppies and cornflowers. 

Paul is going to write down for us aU we 
see and put it in a book. 

 

When we cross the common on a fine summer 
morning, we see many spiders' webs sparkling 
in the sun. The webs on the gorse bushes are 
round. They are fastened to the gorse prickles 
by long silk threads, and each web has spokes 
like a wheel. These spokes are joined together 
with rings of silk. There are drops of gum all 
over the rings. It is these drops which sparkle 
like diamonds, and make the web so pretty. 

The spider spins a little tent in the centre of 
the web. In this tent she hides, till some insect 
flies against the gummy threads. Then she feels 
the web shake, and darts out to catch the fly 
before it breaks the threads. 

We saw a little bee to-day fly right against 
the web on the gorte bush. Out came the 
spider from her tent. She bit the bee with her 
sharp fangs, tore off its wings, and then sat and 
sucked the juice out of its bodv. 




Paul caught her, while she was busy, and 
showed us the two fangs with sharp points, 
which hang down in front of her head. Above 
them are her eight eyes, four large ones and four 
small ones. She has eight legs with such 
strange claws ! Each one is like a comb. 
What do you think they are- for ? She uses 







them to guide the silk threads as she makes her 
web. 

We turned her on her back and saw, undei 
her body, six little pockets, out of which she 
pulls the silk. It comes out through tiny holes. 
She draws it through the combs on her legs, 
and so makes her web as she runs along. 

Besides the webs on the gorse, there are 
webs all over the common close to the ground 
These are not made with spokes like the round 




webs. The threads are mixed up Hke wool. 
For a long time we could not find the spider= 
At last one day Paul said, " Here is a hole right 
in the middle of the web. It goes down into 
the ground." 

This hole was lined with silk threads. Just 
then a beetle crawled on to the web, and shook 
it. At once the spider darted out from the 

tunnel in the 
ground and seized 
the beetle. She 
was so quick that 
she had carried 
him down into 

HUNTING SPIDER WITH HER

EGO-BAG. could catch her. 

There are many spiders on the common 
which do not spin webs, though they hang from 
a thread. They spring on the flies and beetles 
on the ground, and are called "hunting-spiders." 

The mother hunting-spiders carry their eggs 
about with them in a round bag. Peter caught 
one of these as she was running along with this 
white ball under her body. He took the ball 
away and put it on the ground. When he let 
her go, she ran up and seized it. He took it 
away three times. Each time she caught it 
up again, and at last ran away before we could 
catch her. 






We were lying under the shade of the trees 
in the wood one afternoon. All was very quiet, 
when suddenly we heard such a strange cry. 
It was like someone laughing, " Yafhl, Yaffil, 
Yaffil." "That is the woodpecker," said Peggy. 
" Wait and see what he will do." 

80 we lay quite still under the tree. Soon 
the sound came nearer, and a great heavy bird, 
bigger than a large thrush, flew towards us. He 
was a beautiful bird. His wings were green, and 
so was his breast. He had yellow on his tail. 
His head was red, and he had a red streak on 
his throat. His beak was long and grey. 

He came quite close to us, hopping along. 
Then he stopped, and a long shining tongue 
came out of his mouth, and went back so 
quickly that we could scarcely see it. 

" He is eating ants," said Peggy. " The tip 
of his tongue is sticky and he draws them into 
his mouth." 

Then he began to climb the tree so funnily. 
His tail is jquite stiff and wiry, and he bent it 
against the tree, and pushed himself up, jump, 
jump, holding on with his sharp hooked toes. 
He jumped first to the right, then to the left* 
Then he ran round the tree and came out on tjfie 
oth«r side. 





All the while he was trying the hark with his 
beak. Tap, tap, tap. At last he found a soft 
spot. Then he tore off the bark and ate the 
grubs, which had made the tree rotten in that 
place. After this he came down tlie tree 
again. 

It was so funn}^ to see him. He came down 
backwards tail first, using it to steady himself. 
Then he spread his wings and flew slowly 
away. 

We crept after him, and bj^-and-by he 
stopped at an old elm tree and flew round it. 
Then we could see no more of him. : ? 

" His nest must be in this tree," said Peter. 
" Give me a back, Paul, and I will soon find 
it." 

So Paul let Peter climb on his back till he 
could reach the branches of the tree. Then 
Peter caught hold of the boughs, and crept 
round the trunk. 

" Here it is," he cried at last " There is a 
small hole, just big enough for a bird to creep 
in. But they have made such a big hole inside 
the tree. I can only just reach down." 

Then Peter drew his hand back with the 
mother bird in it. Her head was not so red 
as the father's, and she had no red whiskers. 
He let her fly away, and then pulled out six 
white shining eggs. 





I can feel a number of soft chips of wood at 
 the bottom of the 
hole," said he. 
''Shall I put the 



eggs back?" 

" Of course,'' 
said Paul ; " then 
the mother will fly 
back and sit on 
them, and we will 
come again and see 
the little birds when 
they are hatched." 

So we went 
away. But every 
day, as we came 
from school, we 
turned aside to see if the 
little woodpeckers had 
come out of their shells. 
At last one day we saw 
the old woodpeckers carry- 
ing insects into the hole. 






After some time we saw 
the young birds out on 
the tree. They could not 
fly. But they ran about 

the branches, and jumped so funnily with their 

stiff tails. 




A week later we saw them flying about, and 
when we came again they were all gone. Peter 
climbed up and found the nest quite empty. 


We are always glad when April comes. Then 
we can find many flowers on our way to school. 
Even in February there are snowdrops in the 
orchard, and Peter knows where he can some- 
times find a primrose or violet in flower. 

But we cannot get a good bunch till April. 
Before that the plants are busy growing their 
leaves. 

The first bright flowers we find are the 
daffodils in the fields, and the anemones in 
the woods. We call the daffodils "Lent lilies" 
and we put them in the church at Easter. 
They have very long, narrow leaves which come 
straight out of the ground. Each flower hangs 
on its own tall stalk. It has a deep yellow 
tube in the middle, with a crown of pale yellow 
leaves round it. If you dig up a daffodil plant 
you will find that it has a bulb like an onion. 
Paul says this is why it blooms so early. It 
stores up food in the bulb in the autumn. Then 
it uses this food in January to make its leaves 
and flowers. 

The wood - anemone is Peggy's favourite 








flower. It is called the '' wind-flower " because 
it nods so prettily in the wind. Its soft pink 
and white flower stands high up on a long stalk, 

which has three 
feathery green 
leaves half-way 
down. When 
the sun shines, 
it is a little pink 
and white cup, 
but when the 
clouds gather 
and the rain 
falls, it shuts up 
in a tight bud, 
till sunshine 
comes again. 

Peggy once 
bit one of the 
leaves of the anemone. It 
burnt her tongue and tasted 
T ery bitter. Then Paul told 
us that the plant is poi- 
sonous. This is one reason 
why there are so many 
anemones in the wood. 
Animals will not eat the leaves, but leave them 
alone to grow. 

The anemone has not got a bulb. It has a 




thick brown stem under the ground in which it 
stores its food. 

Before the daffodils and anemones are over, 
the primroses and violets cover the banks. It is 
pretty to watch the primrose plant on a wet 
morning. The leaves are not smooth. They 
have hills and valleys all along them. The 
water runs so cleverly down the valleys of the 
leaf. These guide it down to the roots, so that 
the plant can drink. 

How busy, too, the bees and flies are. They 
jettle first on one primrose, then on another. 
We know what they find there. If you pull off 
the yellow crown of the primrose, and suck the 
end of the tube, you will taste something sweet. 
This is the honey that the bees come to find. 
And besides the honey they carry off some 
yellow dust from flower to flower. Paul says 
that this is good for the flowers, as we shall 
learn some day. 

The honey in the violets is not so easy to 
find. But we have found it. When a violet 
looks straight at you, it shows five purple leaves 
and a little yellow beak in the middle. But if 
you look behind, you will find a small long bag, 
like the finger of a glove. We have often pulled 
this off and sucked it. It is full of honey. When 
the bee sits on the flower, and thrusts her head 
into the yeUow beak in the middle, she sips out 




the toney with her tongue from the bag or spur 
behind the flower. 

With primroses and violets and blue-hells 
the bees can now find plenty of ho'aey to fil? 
their hives. 


We have a pet called Bobby, and we love him 
very much. He is a little squirrel, living among 
the beech trees of the wood. 

We see him every morning leaping from 
branch to branch, with his long furry tail 
stretched out behind. Sometimes he leaps right 
down on to the ground and runs about picking 
up beech nuts. 

Sometimes he sits bolt upright on a branch, 
with a nut or acorn in his paws. Then his tail 
is bent up against his back. 

We have known him for two years, and when 
we whistle to him he comes to us. But if any- 
thing frightens him he darts away to the nearest 
tree. He climbs up in a moment with his sharp 
claws, and peeps back through the green leaves 
We see his bright black eyes looking down at 
us. 

His back is covered with a brown red fur, 
but under his body the fur is white. His lovely 
red tail is like a brush on his back. His hind 




legs are long. That is why he can jump so well. 
On his front paws one toe stands out from the 
others, almost like our thumb. He uses his 
paws like hands, when he sits up with a nut in 
them, and peels off the brown skin with his 
teeth. 

Sometimes he steals birds' eggs. Then he 
holds the egg in his paws, cracks the top, and 
sucks out the yolk. 

He has such funny ears ! They have long 
tufts of hair behind them He sometimes comes 
out of his hole in winter to eat, and we see that 
the tufts are much longer then than in summer. 

But for most of the winter we never see him. 
He is fast asleep in a hole in a tree. We know 
where his hole is, for Peter found it once. He 
had seen Bobby come down one mild day to feed 
on his store of acorns, buried at the foot of the 
tree, and he watched him as he went back. Then 
he climbed up the tree, and in a hole in the trunk 
he saw Bobby's bushy tail curled round. So he 
knew that Bobby was snag a,nd cosy in the hole. 

Bobby has a little wife, and they always 
keep near each other. But she is very shy, and 
will not come to us. In the spring, when there 
are no nuts, they eat the buds of the trees. 

About May they are very busy. They gather 
leaves, and moss, and twigs. These they weave 
into a nest in a fork of the tree, far from the 




ground. Tlien in June their little ones are born, 
Paul climbed up and saw four such lovely little 
squirrels, covered with soft red and white fur. 
They stayed in the nest for some time, though 
we often saw them moving about among the 
branches. The old squirrels took such care of 
them, and they stayed together all the summer. 
In the autumn they hid little heaps of nuts and 
acorns at the foot of the tree, to eat when they 
should awake in the mild days in winter. 

Then we did not see them again. We do not 
know whether they all crept into one hole, or 
whether they each found a hole, and curled 
themselves up to sleep. 



Theee are a great many larks near our home. 
They sing so gaily in the morning as we go to 
school. But they sing much earlier than that. 

We wanted once to try if we could get up 
before the lark. So we agreed to meet at five 
o'clock in the morning, in the meadow where 
one has been singing all this year. We heard 
him before we got out of the lane. There he 
was, rising up into the air, going a little to the 
right, and then a little to the left, rising and 
singing all the time, as if he wanted to wake all 
the world with joy. 





We watched him till he was quite a tiny 
speck in the sky. Then he came down again. 
When he was only a few feet from the ground 
le shut his wings and dropped into the grass. 

The next morning we went at four o'clock, 
That lark was not singing, but one in the next 
field was rising up as gay as a lark could be. 
Then our mothers said we must not get up 
any earlier. So we could not rise before the 
larks. 

We caught a lark once to look at it, and then 
let it fly away again. It is not a gay bird. It 
has brown wings marked with dark streaks. 
Its breast and throat are a dull white, dotted 
with brown spots, and it has a white streak 
above its eye. Its feet are curious. The toes lie 
flat on the ground, and the hind toe has a very 
long claw. If you watch a lark you will see 
that he runs, he does not hop. Neither does he 
perch in the trees, and only sometimes on a low 
bush. He lives on the ground, except when he 
rises up to sing. 

In the winter, as we go to school, we see large 
flocks of larks in the fields, looking for insects, 
and seeds of wheat and oats. When we come 
near them, they get up, a few at a time, and fly 
away a little further. Then they wheel round 
and settle down to feed. 

In the winter thej'' scarcely ever sing. It 



i 






is in the spring, when they pair, that they sing 
so beautifully- 

About March we can often find a lark's nest 
hidden in the 
grass. They 
build in a rut, 
or a little hollow 
in the ground, 
often in the 
middle of the 
field. They line 
the nest with 
dry grass, and 
lay four or five 
eggs in it. The 
eggs are a dirty 
grey colour with 
brown spots on 
them, and they 
lie very snugly 
in the thick 
tufts of grass. 

When the lark comes down after singing he 
does not drop close to the nest but a little way 
off. Then he runs up to the nest through the 
grass. This is because he is afraid that the 
sparrow-hawk might see the nest, and pounce on 
the little ones. 

The sparrow-hawk is the lark's great enemv. 




One day we were looking at a lark rising up, and 
all at once we saw a sparrow-liawk just going to 
pounce upon it. The lark saw him too, and 
darted up faster than the hawk could soar. Then 
the hawk flew away a little and hovered about 
till the lark was tired and was obliged to come 
down. Then once more the hawk tried to 
pounce. But the lark was too clever for him. 
He closed his wings and dropped right down 
into the thick grass, and the hawk could not 
find him. We were glad the little lark was safe, 
and got back to his wife and little ones. 

 

We pass through a small nut-wood on our way 
to school. In the winter, when there are no 
leaves on the trees, we see the grey clusters 
which we call "lambs-tails" hanging on the 
nut-bushes, Paul says their real name is " cat- 
kins." 

We often look at them to see how they grow. 
At first they are only like little grey buds on the 
branch. Then they grow larger and hang down. 
By degrees they become very loose, like tassels, 
and under the grey scales come some little bags 
of yellow dust . 

Then in March, still before the leaves are on 


the trees, the wind shakes the tree and blows the 
yellow dust about. 

. By this time we find small flowers, grow- 
ing near the end of the branches. You have to 
look well to find them. But they are very 
pretty. Each flower has two tiny red horns, 
and there are many flowers in one green 
cup. 

We know that these red flowers grow into 
nuts, for we find the nuts just in that place in 
September. When the wind blows the yellow 
dust out of the lambs- tails, some of it falls on 
the red horns of the flowers, and this makes the 
nut grow. 

In the autumn we look out well to see when 
the nuts are ripe. We want to get some before 
the Squirrels, and the little birds called Nut- 
hatches, carry them all away. 

Peggy is in such a hurry that she picks them 
sometimes before they are ripe. This is foolish, 
for then there is only a very small watery kernel 
inside. The rest of the shell is filled mth white 
soft stuff. 

Paul says this white stuff is the food which 
the nut uses to make itself large and firm. 
When the nuts are ripe they drop quite easily 
out of the brown leafy cup in which they sit. 

Sometimes when we pick the nuts we find 
one with a little hole in the shell. Then we 



know that the nut is a bad one, and we shall 

most likely find a maggot inside. 

It is so curious ! Paul tells us that this 

maggot is a young beetle. 

It does not look like one. 

But many beetles when 

they are young have no 

legs and are only grubs. 
This nut-beetle is 

called a Weevil. When 

the nut is quite young and soft, the mother 

weevil comes and lays an eg^ in it. She is a 

very small beetle and has a long snout. With 

her snout she makes a hole in the soft green 

nutshell, and then la3^s a tinj egg in the hole. 

By-and-by the egg hatches into a maggot. 

It grows fat by 
feeding on the 
nut. So when 
we gather it, 
the nut is half 
eaten, and the 
maggot is 
curled up 







in- 



side. 



If we had not picked the nut, the maggot 
would have eaten a large hole in the nutshell 
with its horny mouth, and then have crept out 
ot its mao^crot skin as a little weevil with wings. 



So the yellow dust and the red flowers make 
nuts. Some of these nuts we get. Some the 
squirrels get. Some the nuthatch gets. Some 
fall to the ground and grow up into young nut 
trees, and some the weevil grub gets, before 
they are ripe. 



Peteb has a fine old cat. She is very clever. 
She rattles the handle of the front door when 
she wants to come in. If she comes home very 
late at night she jumi3s on the wire which runs 
along the garden wall. This rings a bell, and 
Peter comes down and lets her in. 

But in one thing she is very stupid. She 
cannot learn that a shrew and a mouse are not 
the same kind of animal. We are glad when 
she catches the mice in the garden and in the 
field. For the mice eat our peas and the bulbs 
of our crocuses. They hide in the corn-ricks 
and eat the wheat and oats. 

But shrews eat insects and worms and slugs, 
and this is good for us, because insects and 
slugs eat our plants. 

It is so silly of Pussy, for she ought to know. 
When she has killed them, she does know them 
apart, for she eats a mouse and Hkes it, but 
she will not eat the sh?'ew. She only kills it 





ana leaves it lying on the path. We think she 
kills it because it runs away ; and does not eat 
it because it has a bad smell. 

A great many people do not 
know a 

mouse
from
shrew, 

for they are very 
much alike. A 
shrew is not 
qijite so large as 
a field-mouse, 
and a little 
larger than 
the dear little 
harvest-mouse, 
which makes a 
round nest of 
dry grass among  

the corn-stalks. 

We found one of these 
nests last summer. It was 
about as big as a large 
swan's egg, and the same 
shape. We peeped inside 
and found seven wee little harvest-mice, with, 
red-brown fur on their backs and white fui 
underneath. 




The shrew is more of a grey colour. But 
there is one way by which you can always tell a 
mouse from a shrew. The mouse has a short 
snout and four broad white teeth in front. It 
uses these for gnawing roots and bulbs, and 
biting the ears of corn. 

But the shrew has a long, thin snout, and it^ 
Grown teeth are very small and pointed, so that 
it can kill and eat insects, worms, and snails. 

Shrews and mice are both very busy in the 
evening. We go out sometimes to watch them 
when the moon is shining. The mice run along 
so fast out into the field and back to the hedge. 
Paul says they are carrying seeds and bits of 
roots into their hole in the bank. For they 
know that they will want food when they wake 
up in the winter, and there is none to be found. 
The shrews move more quietly under the hedge. 
They push their long snouts into the thick 
grass, and eat the earwigs and caterpillars. 

Both the mice and the shrews are very much 
afraid of the Barn Owl, which comes out at 
night and carries them away in her sharp claws 
to feed her young owls. 

Shrews do not store up food, for they sleep 
in a hole in the bank all the winter through. 
Then in the spring they line the hole with soft 
dry grass, and there the mother brings up five or 
six little shrews. 





The mouse, too, burrows deep into the bank. 
She lays up a nice store of food and goes to 
sleep. But she often wakes and has a feed, and 
goes to sleep again. She brings up a great 
many families in a year. This is why there are 
many mice. 



There is a big ant-hill in the wood on the way 
to school. It is at the foot of the old oak tree, 
near the path, and is almost as tall as Peter. 
It looks like a loose heap of leaves, mixed with 
sticks and earth. It is broad at the bottom, and 
round at the top. 

When we come home in the evening aU is 
quiet on the ant-hill. We cannot see even 
one ant outside. It looks as if no one lived 
there. But when we pass in the morning, and 
the sun is warm and bright, we can see the ants 
creeping out of the cracks and running about 
the heap. 

They are as big as a grain of barley, and have 
a tiny knob in the middle of their body. They 
have long feelers and strong jaws. They bite 
hard if you touch them. But they do not sting 
with their tails, as our house ants do. 

At dinner-time we find them still more busy. 
They have opened many holes in the hill, and 




hurry to and fro. Some fetch hits of leaves and 
sticks, and add them to the heap. Others bring 
in food. One day Paul saw a number of ants 
pulling a dead worm to pieces. Then each ant 
carried a tiny bit in her jaws to the hillj and went 
in at a hole. 

Sometimes the ants bring some little white 
lumps in their mouths out of the hill. Peggy's 
father, the gamekeeper, gives these white lumps 
to his birds to eat. He calls them ant-eggs. 
But Paul says they are not eggs. They are 
baby ants shut up in silk bags, and thej^ are 
called " cocoons." 

Keal ant-eggs are much smaller. When the 
baby ant comes out of the egg it is blind and 





has no legs. It is called a grub. The nursing 
ants feed it with honey, and it puts a silk thread 
out of its mouth and spins a bag round itself. 
When the bag is done, the nurses cannot feed 




the grub any more. So they take care of it. 
They carry it up to the sunshine by day, and 
down below at ni^ht. Inside the bag, the gmb 



grows into a real ant, with eyes and legs. Then 
the nurses help it out of its prison, and it begins 
work. 

One day Paul poked a hole in the ant-hill 
with his stick. We saw in the ground, under 
the leaves, a hollow place full of white cocoons. 
The ants were very angry. Some bit us, others 
picked up the cocoons in their jaws and ran 
away, for fear we should hurt their babies. 

When we came back in the evening the ants 
had mended the hill. Every hole was closed, 
and all the cocoons were safe inside. 




 

One day in summer we saw a number of ants 
with wings, flying over the ant-hill. Paul says 
these are the father and mother ants. The antp 
without wings are the nurses and workers. 




Last March, when the days began to be warm, we 
saw a big Humble Bee, or Bumble Bee, as the 
little ones call it, buzzing along across the field. 

"Look out, Peter," said Peggy; "that is a 
mother humble bee, who has been asleep all the 
winter. She must be making a nest." So Peter 
followed her. She flew to a bank, and went in 
among some tufts of grass. Peter put a large 
stick there, and we went to see her every day. 

We used to find her dragging in little piecey 
of moss. But we did not look in, for fear she 
should go away. After a fortnight Paul said we 
might look, and, hidden in the grass, we found a 
small round patch of moss lined with bees -wax. 




It was like a tiny saucer turned upside down. 
We lifted it up and found under it a few round 
Eat pockets, some as big as a halfpenny, some 
not larger than a farthing. They were made of 
brown, sticky wax, and when we opened one we 




found inside seven tiny eggs, as small as poppy 
seeds, and some little brown balls. The balls, 
Paul said, were made of honey, and of the 
yellow dust from flowers. In another pocket we 
found grubs which had already been hatched 
from eggs. These were feeding on the brown 
balls near them. 

The mother bee was very uneasy while we 
were looking at her nest. She sat down quite 





near. We could see how big and stout she was. 
She was so handsome. Her brown body was 
covered with soft yellow^ hairs, with stripes of 
black hairs between. Her wings were broad, 
and shone so brightly in the sun. She did not 
stiDg- us. Paul says that humble bees are very 
gentle But she was afraid we should hurt the 
grubs, which were going to grow up into work- 
ing bees. We put the cover back and waited 
two months. Then it was June. We were 
afraid the horses might tread on the nest when 
the hay was cut. So we went to look at it. 

Oh ! how big it was now. There was a large 
round moss roof. It was lined with wax, and 
was so strong that we had to cut it with a knife. 
The only way for the bees to get into it was by 
a long tunnel just under the ground. Under 
the roof were a number of dirty yellow silk 
cocoons. In these were the grubs, growing into 
humble bees. The cocoons were stuck together 
with wax. Some of them were open, for the young 
bees had come out. These had honey in them. 

There w^ere a great many humble bees going 
in and out. These had all come from eggs 
laid by the mother bee in two months. They 
were very busy bringing in honey and bee- 
bread for the grubs to eat. But Paul says they 
do not store honey, like our hive-bees. For 
when the cold damp weather comes, they aU 




die, except a few mothers. These creep into 
holes ill the trees or into a warm haystack, and 
sleep till the spring comes again. 

Ahout Christmas time we went to look at the 
nest. The roof was hroken, and the cells all 
crushed. There was not one humble bee to be 
found. 


Peter's cat is very fond of going into the wood. 
We are afraid she will be killed some day. For 
Peggy's father shoots all the cats he finds in the 
wood, because they eat the rabbits and pheasants. 

But Peter cannot keep her at home. As 
soon as it gets dusk, she slips out, aud often does 
not come home all night. She goes in the 
dusk, because then all the animals are feeding. 
So she can catch mice and young rabbits, as well 
as partridges asleep on the ground, and other 
birds in the trees. 

She is a very clever hunter. Her body is so 
well made for catching her prey. She is slender, 
but very strong. She can kill a mouse with one 
stroke of her paw. She can spring ever so far, 
and so quickly that few mice or birds can escape 
her. 

Then she has soft pads under her feet, so 
that she can creep along very quietly. And she 









can jump down from a high wall because the soft 
pads keep her feet from being hurt when she 
reaches the ground. 

We all know what sharp claws she has at 
the end of her toes. But when she is playing 
with her kitten or with Peter, her paw is so 
soft you would not 
think she could 
scratch. This is be- 
cause she has a groove 
in each toe under the 
skin, and when she 
does not want her 
claws, she draws each 
one back into its own 
sheath. 

But when she springs on a mouse or a bird, 
she strikes with her paw, and as she bends her 
toes, out come the claws and pierce the flesh of 
her prey. 

But how does she see the rats and mice in 
the night ? Paul showed us that she can open 
the middle of her eye very wide in the dark. 
We took pussy near to the lamp and saw that 
the hole or " pupil" of her eye was only a little 
narrow slit Then we shut her up in a dark 
room for some minutes, and took her outside 
and looked at her eyes in the moonlight. The 
little slit had become a large round black hole. 






The slit lets in enough light for pussy to see 
in the daytime, and vjhen she goes out at night 
the slit stretches out into a big round hole which 
lets in all the light there is, from the moon or 
the stars. 

But if it is very dark indeed, she feels hei 
way with her whiskers. Paul says it 
is very cruel to cut a cat's whiskers, 
for they are a great help to her in 
the dark. 

Pussy has a very rough tongue- 
If you let her lick your hand, you 
will feel how different it is from 
your own tongue, or that of a dog. 
It is so rough that she can rasp the 
scraps of meat off a bone, after she 
has torn away the flesh with her long pointed 
front teeth. 

Pussy is very clever in getting her living, 
and if you look at her head you will see why. 
For she has a good broad forehead with plenty 
of room inside for a large brain. We put a 
rabbit's head near hers the. other day. It was 
so narrow, and had so little room for a brain, 
we were not surprised that the cat is too 
cunning for him. 

Who would think that Pussy, who sits and 
purrs with her kitten by the fire, is so fierce in 
the wood ^ But Paul savs that there were once 




wild cats in Scotland and the north of England, 
and they were as fierce as tigers. Tigers and cats 
are very much alike. Tigers can be loving too. 
We heard a tiger purr one day in a wild beast 
show, when she was licking her cub. 

It was the middle of April this year when we 
first heard the cuckoo. We love to hear it, for 
it tells us that spring has come. This year we 
were very lucky. We saw a young cuckoo grow 
up in his nest. 

This was how it happened. 

We had heard the cuckoo for some time, 
cuck-oo, cuck-oo, and it seemed as if many 
cuckoos were singing. One day we heard such 
a funny noise, like kik-kik-kik. " Ah ! " said 
Peggy, "father says that is the cry of the 
mother cuckoo which lays the eggs. That is 
why there are so many cuckoos about. They 
are singing to her." 

"Well then," said Peter, "if she stops here, 
perhaps we may find one of her eggs. I do s( 
want to see a young cuckoo." 

About a week after this Peter found a tit- 
lark's * nest. It was in a tuft of grass, on the 

* Now called a " Pipit." But country children know it ag 
the " Titlark." 




bank, near the wood. Two small dull-grey eggs, 
spotted with brown, were lying in the nest. 
The next day, as we went to school, there were 
three eggs. The next morning there were four. 
But as we came back from school that afternoon 
there were five eggs. 

" The titlark cannot have laid two eggs in 
one day," said Peter. " I wonder if the cuckoo 
has brought one of her eggs here." 

For we know that the cuckoo lays her eggs 
on the ground, and brings it in her wide beak to 
the nest of some other bird. We looked every 
day for a fortnight. The little titlark was so 
used to our coming, she did not even fly off the 
nest. She was a pretty little bird, with brown 
spotted wings and a yellow throat and chin. 

At the end of a fortnight two little titlarks 
came out of their shells, and the next day two 
more. They opened their beaks for food, and 
the father titlark flew out to the field, and 
brought flies and caterpillars to feed them. But 
the mother still sat on the fifth egg. 

Two days later the fifth bird came out. It 
had a curved beak, and bent toes with short, 
sharp claws. Its toes were two in front and two 
at the back. Titlarks have straight beaks and 
flat toes, three in front and one at the back. 

So we knew our young cuckoo by his beak 
and toes. 




We came next day to look. The little tit- 
larks had quills on their wings where the 
feathers were growing, and their eyes were open. 
The cuckoo was naked and blind. But he had 
pushed two of the titlarks out of the nest, and 
they lay on the bank quite dead. 

The cuckoo had grown bigger 
Dven in one day, 
and the old tit- 
larks kept feed- 
ing him with 
insects as he sat 
with his beak 
wide open. 
While we were 
booking at him, 
the cuckoo 
pushed about in 
bhe nest and 
shoved another little titlark over the edge, on 
fco the bank. We put it back in the nest and 
then we had to go on to school. When we 
came back the cuckoo sat in the nest alone. 
All the four little titlarks were dead on the 
bank. He had pushed them all out. 

The old birds did not seem to see their dead 
children They were so busy feeding the big 
hungry stranger. They fed him for five or six 
weeks, even after he could come out of the nest. 





It was so fanny to see I The cuckoo was  arger than a thrush and the titlarks not bigger 
than a sparrow. Yet the big bird sat on a 
branch with his beak open, and let these Uttle 
birds carry all his food. 

At last he flew away. We heard a cuckoo 
singing in August, when we knew the old birds 
were all gone. We wondered if it was our 
young ''greedy stranger." 



There were so many moles in the barn field last 
summer. We used to see mole heaps thrown up 
all over the field. At last Paul's father sent for 
the mole-catcher. He put traps in the runs and 
brought in many dead moles. 

A mole is a curious creature. We country 
children call him a " wunt." He has a long, 
plump body and a short, stumpy tail. His dark 
brown fur is like velvet, it is so soft and close. 
He has a long, pointed snout, very hard at the 
tip, and his mouth is full of strong, sharp teeth. 

His feet are very curious. They have no fur 
on them, but are naked and pink. His front 
paws are like broad flat hands with very strong 
claws. They turn away from his body, and look 
too big for such a small, soft creature. 

Paul says these paws are the mole's shovels. 



He lives under the ground and catches worms tc 
eat. As he goes along he makes a hole with his 
hard nose, and then shovels away the earth with 
his strong hands. In this way he makes a tunnel, 
and when he wants to get rid of the loose earth 
he pokes it above ground with his snout. This is 
how the mole-hills are made. 



But the moles do not always stay under the 
ground. We have seen them sometimes on a 
warm summer's evening poking about in the 
hedges, looking for slugs and snails. There are 
more he-moles than she- moles. 

We wanted so much to find a mole's home. 
We dug down below some of the mole-hills 
hoping to find one, but we only found a tunnel. 
The mole-catcher laughed at us for digging 
there. He asked us if we thought that the mole 
would put a heap of loose earth over his home, 
to tell his enemies wliere to find him 




At last, one day a gentleman came to Paul's 
father and asked him to open a mole's home for 
him. He wanted to see what it was like. This 
was just what we wanted, so we went too. 

The mole-catcher took us some way across the 
field. At the corner near the wood we came to a 
large mound, under the trees, covered with grass. 

Then he began to dig away the side of the 
mound. By-and-bye, about the middle, he 
stopped and cleared away the earth very care- 
fully with his hands. And there, just below the 
ground, was a big round hole covered with a roof 
of very hard earth. He had taken away the 
side, and we could see in. The hole was lined 
with dry grass, and in it lay four tiny moles. 
We filled it in again very carefully and left the 
baby moles safe and quiet. 

We saw four holes in the sides of the nest. 
These led to the runs through which the old 
moles went in and out to feed. We are afraid 
they got rather filled with earth from our digging, 
but the mole-catcher said that they would soon 
be put right by the old moles. 

He says that the father mole lives in another 
home like this all alone in the winter, feeding 
on worms. Sometimes he comes up above the 
ground, and if it is very frosty weather he dies of 
Dold. He only takes a wife in the spring. 


 

Croak, croak, croak, we hear the frogs in the 
month of March. They make a great deal of 
noise in this month, because they are jnst awake 
from their winter's sleep, at the bottom of the 
pond. 

The mother frogs are laying then tiny dart 
eggs in the water. Each egg is not bigger than 
a grain of sand. But it has a coat of jelly, and 
this jelly swells and swells in the water, till it is 
as large as a pea, with a little black dot in the 
middle. The jelly lumps all cliug together. You 
may see them in almost any pond, driven up to 
the side by the wind. 

Soon the dark speck lengthens. A head 
grows at one end, and a tail at the other. The 
head has a mouth, but no eyes as yet. The tail 
has a fin all round it, and the tadpole wrigglep 
about in its slimy bed. 

In about a week it wriggles out of the jelly, 




and hangs by its mouth to the weeds (1). Then 
two curious tufts grow on each side of its head. 
It uses these tufts to breathe, by taking ah out 
of the water. You can see them if you dip a 
glass into the pond and catch a few tadpoles. 

By this time the tadpole has let go of the 
weed and is swimming about. A sharp beak has 
grown on to his mouth. He uses it to tear off 
pieces of weed to eat. Now he grows eyes, nose- 
holes and flat ears. His tufts shrivel up, and a 
cover grows over them (2), so that you cannot 
see them. They are now like the gills of a fish. 
He gulps water in at his mouth and sends it out 
through the cover. As it passes, the gills take 
the air out of it, and so the tadpole breathes. 

Soon two small lumps appear on each side of 
his body, behind the cover, just where it joins 
his tail. They grow larger and larger, till at last 
two hind legs come out. These legs grow very 
long and strong, and he uses them to swim. Two 
front legs are growing as well, but you cannot see 
them, because they are under the cover. In a 
few days these peep out (3), but they are short 
and stumpy. 

Our tadpole has now four legs and a tail. 
He has four toes on the front feet, and five toes 
on the hind feet, with a skin between the toes. 
So his hind legs are web-footed, and this helrss 
him to swim. 




He comes to the top of the water much more 
often than before, and sends a bubble of air out 
of his mouth. What do you think has hap- 
pened ? The gills under his cover have closed 
up, and a small air-bag has grown inside him. 
So he comes up to breathe in the air through his 
mouth, instead of taking it out of the water 
through his gills. 

Now he likes to jump on a piece of weed and 
sit in the shade. He does not want his tail any 
longer, for he can swim quite well with his legs. 
So his tail is slowly sucked in to feed his body. 

There you have yom- little frog (4) . If you look 
through the web of his foot at the sun, you will 
see that he has red blood now. But it is not 
warm blood like ours. He is always cold and 
clammy, because his blood moves slowly. 

He has a number of teeth in the top of his 
mouth, and such a curious tongue. It is tied 
down to the front of his mouth, and the tip, 
which is very sticky, lies back down his throat. 
He does not eat weed now. He feeds on insects 
and slugs. He catches them by throwing out 
his tongue and drawing it rack very quickly. 

He lives chiefly on land during the summer 
if he is not eaten by ducks, rats, or snakes. Then 
he drops to the bottom of the pond to sleep in the 
mud all the winter. 




EvEEY country boy or girl, who wants to learn 
xbout water-animals, should make a pond net. 
You have only to get a willow twig, and bind it 
into a hoop with string. Then make a muslin 
bag and sew a small stone in the bottom of it, 
and sew the mouth of the bag on to the hoop. 
Get a stick out of the hedge and fasten to it 
a long piece of string. Split the string near the 
end, and tie it to the two sides of the hoop. 
Then you have a net which you can let down 
and fish up animals from the bottom of the 
pond. You had better have a wide-mouthed bottle 
as well in which you can put what you catch. I 
know a shady pond just outside a farmyard at the 
turn of a lane. There on a bright sunny day the 
insects are often very busy. 

In one corner of the pond the little whirligig 
beetles are swimming round and round, making 
circles in the water. Their shining black backs 
look almost green in the sun. Every now and 
then one jumps up to catch a fly in the air, or 
another dives down to eat a grub. Drop your net 
into the water and bring it up quickly under a 
beetle, and put him in the bottle so that you can 
see him. 
jpsif You will think that he has four eyes, for each 
if his two eyes is divided. One half looks up 



into the air, and one half looks down into the 
water. So as he whirls about, he can see the 
flies in the air and the grubs in the water. 

Gnats are flitting to and fro over the pond, 
and there is quite a crowd of those large flies 
with gauze wings which we call May-flies. And 

now a more 
splendid fly, 
three inches 
long, with 
four big 
gauze wings 
rises out of 
the bulrushes 
and flies over 
the pond. 

All boys 
know the 
dragon - fly. 
H i s lovely 
wings are 
covered with 
cross-bars filled with air, and they glitter in the 
sunshine with red, blue, and green colours. He 
has a long tail and a thick body with six legs, 
and a round head with huge eyes. 

Each eye has more than ten thousand tiny 
window.'^' jn it, so that he can see up and down, 
right ^d left, as he darts about, killing the butter- 




flies and moths that come in his way. Then he 
settles down on a plant or bush by the water-side, 
and rests till he starts off again across the poiui. 

If you go often in April to a pond where 
dragon-flies are, you may perhaps see one begin 
its life in the air. This is how it happens. 

Under the water a large insect crawls up the 
stem of a plant. He has a body as big as a dragon- 
fly and has six legs. But he has a curious dull 
look in his face, and where his wings should be 
there are only two short stumps. 

He crawls very slowly up the stem, till he 
comes out of the water into the air. Then a 
strange thing happens. The skin of his l)ack 
cracks, and out creeps a real dragon-flv. 

First his head, then his body with its six le'>'s 
and four soft, crumpled wings, and lastly his 
tail. He cannot tly yet. He stands by his old 
empty skin, and slowly stretches out his wings 
to the sun. In a few hours they are long and 
strong and hard. Then he is ready (o fly over 
the pond and feed. 

This is how the (U-agon-ily comes up to the 
air. You will not lind him so easily under the 
water, but we will try next week with our ; net. 
We have seen so much at the top of the pond 
to-day that we have not had time to dredge in 
the mud below. 

To-day we will use our net. Hold the stick 
tight, and throw the net out into the pond as a 
fisherman throws a fly. Then the stone will 
sink the net slowly. If now you pull it gently 
through the mud and water-plants, you are sure 
to get something. 

Bring the net to land and lower it on the 
grass, and put all you can find into the clear 
water in the bottle. You may find a little fish, 
or some tadpoles, or water- snails. Or there may 
be one of the curious creatures shown at «, on 
page 10. I am sure you would not think this was 
the grub of a dragon-fly. But it is. It is a long 
insect, all joints, with six legs, and eyes some- 
thing like those of the dragon-fly. It has no 
wings, but a curious kind of arm, with pincers 
at the end, comes out from under its chin. 

This is really part of its under-lip. It is 
called a mask, and has a hinge, so that it can be 
folded back under the chin. Now when the 
grub wants food, he waits quietly in the mud, till 
a beetle or a water-bug passes by. Then he 
throws out his mask, and catches his prey with 
the pincers. 

Look nelt at the end of its tail. Some- 
times it is pointed, sometimes it opens; out like 
the leaves of a flower. Wben it is open tha^rub 





draws water in, and uses the air in it to breathe. 

Then it shoots the water out and so pushes 

itself across the pond. 

This dragon-fly grub lives at the bottom of 

the pond for two years. 
So you ought to catch 
one some time if you 
try. It changes its skin 
many times, and grows 
some wing-stumps. 
Then it creeps up a 





stem, as we saw in the last lesson, and becomes 
a dragon-fly. 

And now what is this in our net ? At first 
you may think it is only a bit of stick, or a 
piece of mud with little stones in it, or a 
number of bits of grass matted together. And 
cio it is. But there is something alive inside. If 
you look carefully you can see the head of an 
inswt sticking out with six legs behind it. This 




is a soft little creature called a caddis- worm. If 
you clear off the pieces of grass, or stick, or smalJ 
stones, or shells, you will find the soft grub in- 
side. It has six legs and a number of little tufts 
under its body. It breathes with these tufts just 
as the tadpole does with its tufts. 

You may often see caddis-worms creeping 
along the bottom of brooks, looking like tiny, 
moving bundles of sticks or stones. You may pick 
them up without using a net. They build these 
cases round themselves to try to protect their 
soft bodies, which the fish like to eat. 

By-and-by they will turn into little yellow- 
brown flies like moths. They rise and fall in the 
an over the water in the evening. We did not 
see them with the May-flies and gnats, because 
they do not like the sunshine. 

You wiU very likely fish out a good many 
little water grubs in your net. But you must 
look carefully, for they are very small. Some 
have tufts all along their sides. These are the 
grubs of the gnats and May-flies you saw flying 
over the pond. They all live some time in the 
water. And when they come out into the air 
they do not live more than a few hours. 


It was a lovely day in May. The sun was 
shining, the grass was green, and the bushes 




on the banks of tlie river Thames weie covered 
with fi^esh leaves. 

In a hollow place in the river a little fish 
was building a nest. The fish was a stickleback. 
It was not more than two inches long. It had 
three spines sticking up on its back. .Boys 
often catch this fish, and keep it in bottles or 
sell it to people who have aquariums. 

It was more pleasant to watch him at work 
under the shade of the bushes. He brought 
little pieces of fine root-threads and narrow 
grass, and made them into a tiny saucer at the 
bottom of the river. Then he brought more 
pieces and stuck them on with slime from his 
mouth. In this way he made sides and a round 
roof. When he had done, the nest was as big 
as a large gooseberry. 

It was about six inches below the top of the 
water, and had a hole right through it. When 
the stickleback put his head out at one end, his 
tail stuck out at the other. But he had not 
built it to live in. He wanted it for the eggs of 
liis young ones. 

He was a lovely little fish with a shining 
back, and bright red belly. He had a bluish 
green eye that shone like a jewel. 

Now that his nest was built he swam ofi" to 
fetch a mate. He soon came back with another 
fish, not so bright as himself. He played with 




her, and drove her, and coaxed her, till at last 

she went m at one 

hole of the nest 

and, after a 

little while, 

came out at the 

other end. 

She had de- 
posited a tiny 
packet of yellow 
eggs, which she 
left behind her 
Then she went 
away and took 
no more care 
of them. 

The 
father 
stickleback 
now went 
t hrougli 
the nest 
and took 
charge 
of the 
eggs. 
Each 

not bigger than a poppy seed, and the whole 
bunch was very tiny. He shook the nest up 
and poked the eggs into a snug, safe corner. 
Then he swam over the top of the nest, waving 
his fins, so that fresh water went in and out. 

Sometimes he went into the nest and 
brought out some dirty sand in his mouth. 
This he puffed away into the water. You see 
he wanted to keep the nest clean. 

He did this every day for three weeks, till 
the eggs were hatched. Then a number of tiny 
fish came out. They were so small and trans- 
parent that you would think no other fish would 
see them. But the stickleback knew better. 
There were plenty of hungry fish watching to 
eat the tiny fry, which were very weak and had 
to carry a bag of food under their body, to suck 
in till they could eat. 

So the brave little stickleback stuck up his 
three spines, and dashed angrily at any fish 
which snapped at his little ones. He seized 
their fins, and struck at their eyes and drove 
them away. 

He made a small round place in the sand at 
blie bottom of the river and gathered the little 
sticklebacks into it, and there he watched over 
them. Even after their spines were grown and 
they could swim boldly, he followed them out 
into the river to see that they were safe. 




You may find plenty of stickleback's nests in 
rivers and ponds, if you look carefully for them. 
Or if you catch several sticklebacks in a bottle 
and put them in a large pan with plenty of 
weeds and food, most likely you will see a 
stickleback build his nest, and learn what a 
good father he is. 



Hush ! Do not make a noise ! There is a 
kingfisher sitting on the bough of the willow tree 
hanging over the river. If we once startle him, 
he will fly away and we shall not see him again. 

How lovely he looks against the grey leaves. 
With his long beak and his stumpy tail he is not 
much larger than a sparrow, yet he seems to wear 
all the colours of the rainbow. 

He has a bright blue streak down his back, 
his head and wings are a lovely green, with blue 
spots on the tips of the feathers. His beak is 
black. His chin and throat are white. He has 
a red streak behind his eye, with soft white 
feathers beyond, and his breast is like shining 
copper. Even his feet are red, and look quite 
gay against the dull branch. 

> He is peering down into the quiet pool under 
the willow, watching the fish swimming below, 
There ! he has darted down to the water. New. 



 

he is up again with something in his mouth. It 
is a small minnow. He taps its head against 
bhe branch, and gulps it down, head first. -- 

One more, and still one more fish he catches 
in the same way. While he is eating the last, 
another kingfisher comes and perches by his side. 
This is his mate, who has been fishing a little 
way off. She is not quite so bright as he is, and 
has a httle bit of red under her chin. 

Now they are going home, and they fly away 
crying " Seep-seep-seep " as they go. They live 
in the trees and bushes by the side of the river. 
For you must always remember that birds do not 
live in nests. The nest is only a cradle for their 
eggs and their little ones. As soon as they are 
able to fly, the young birds leave it with their 
parents, and do not often live in a nest again, till 
they make one for their own eggs. 

I do not think you will easily find a king- 
fisher's nest, so I must tell you about it. When 
the mother wants to lay her eggs, the kingfishers 
dig a tunnel in the bank, and when it is made 
they dart into it so fast that you cannot see 
where they go. 

But if you could know where it is and dig 
down from above, you would find a snug chamber 
which measures about six inches across. At the 
bottom of this chamber are a number of fish 
bones Tshiph the old birds have put there. They 






are mixed up together so that they make a nice 
open floor, where the wet can get away. 

On the fish bones lie some shining white eggs. 
There will be seven, if the mother has laid as 
many as usual. And, if the eggs are hatched, 
there will be seven little birds. Each bird will 
have all the lovely colours of which I have told 
you. The only difference between them and the 
old birds is that their beaks are shorter. 

Though you may, perhaps, not find a king- 
fisher's nest, you will very likely see some young 
birds on the river. I was once out with a friend 
who was fishing, and while his rod was over the 
water, all at once two small kingfishers flew up 
and settled upon it. They rested a moment, and 
then flew on. He had only just thrown his fly 
again on to the water, when two more kingfishers 
flew up and sat on the rod. They, too, soon went 
on. It was clear that they were young birds 
just out of the nest and could not fly far. 

The kingfishers are the brightest birds you 
can see on the river. They look so pretty among 
the green leaves, and hovering over the water, that 
if you have once seen them, you will want to see 
them again. 



Have you ever seen a water-rat? T do not mean 
aiartdfTat swimming in the water, but a water-rat. 




or icater-vole, as he ought to be called, for he is 
not a true rat. I saw one once when he did not 
see me. What do 3'ou think he was doing? He 
was sitting up on his hind legs, and in his front 
paws he held a piece of the leaf of the sweet 
yellow flag, which grows so thickly by the river. 
It was that part of the leaf near the root which 
is thick and juicy. He was gnawing it so busily 
that he did not see me at first. 

He was a stout little fellow, not quite so big as 
a rat. He feeds on plants. When he cannot get 
pieces of yellow flag he eats duckweed, or even 
the bark of young willows. I could see that he 
had a short, thick neck and round head, with a 
short snout. His eyes were small, and I could 
scarcelv see his oars, they were so thickly covered 
with fur. His round tail was not very long and 
had short hairs on it. 

I sat down very ([uietly on the bank, not far 
from him. And i)resently he looked round and 
saw me. But as 1 did not move perhaps he did 
not think I was alive, for he went on munching 
his leaf. 

At last I touched a dead leaf with my foot. 
His ears heard quickly enough. He turned his.- 
little bright eyes to me, and in a second he was 
in the water and swam away. I was toe; late to 
see him go into his hole, but I found one not far 
from the flags, just under the water. ' ' 







I knew I should not find his home; for the 
water-voles make long burrows. I went for several 
days to the same place, and took some bread to 
leave there. At last one day, as I sat watching, out 
came my little friend and ate the bread. After that 
we met several times, and he became quite tame. 
But I had to be very careful. The least thing 
frightened him, and plop he went, into the water ! 

If you go often to a pond or river, when all is 
very quiet in the evening or early morning, you 
may sometimes see a water-vole swimming in the 
water, or feeding on the bank. He has beautiful 
yellow teeth. The lower ones are large and show 
very clearly above his short lower lip. 

The young water-voles are such pretty little 
creatures. They are born in a nest of dry grass, 
which the old voles make in the burrow, and 
when they come out they swim about with the 
old ones, and feed on the duckweed. 

But though the water-vole lives mostly in the 
water, he can come on land to gather his winter 
store. He is often a great trouble to the farmer, 
for he likes the carrots and potatoes and even 
the broad beans, which grow in the fields, and he 
comes in the evening to eat them and to carry 
pieces back to his home. 

A farmer once dug out a water-vole's burrow 
and found enough pieces of potato and mangold- 
v^rzel to fill a gallon measure. 



If your way to school lies along a river-path, 
where trees hang over the water, you will very 
likely have seen a water-hen and her little ones. 
Perhaps you may know where a nest is, either 
among the rushes, or on a bough of a tree over- 
hanging the water. 

It is made of dead rushes, and though it is 
quite close to the water, it is dry and warm. If 
you are bathing you may look in. You will find 
about eight pale-grey eggs spotted with red-brown 
patches. Or perhaps some of the eggs may be 
hatched, and then the young birds will be hidden 
with their mother in the rushes. They are little 
black balls of fluff with red on their heads and 
white tail-feathers, and they can run and swim 
directly they are born. All the time you are 
looking, the mother, hidden in the rushes, will 
cry " Crr-ooh^ crr-ooh " to drive you away. 

She is a black bird, about as big as a pigeon, 
with a bright red forehead and yellow beak. And 
she has white feathers on the edge of her wings 
and under her tail. When she is in the water, 
she keeps jerking her head down, so that you see 
the white feathers, and even her green legs with 
their red garters. 

Very soon after the young water-hens are 
hatched, they slip out of the nest and sw' 




round her. If you are lying very still among the 
bushes, you may perhaps see them all come out 
on to the bank, to feed on worms or snails. Then 
you can notice that their feet are not webbed like 
a duck's feet, but all four toes are separate.. 

But if you make the least noise, the mother 
will cry ^^ KreJc-hrek" to her little ones, and 
they will dive into the water and swim to a safe 
place among the rushes. They will not go back 
to the nest, and even if you beat the rushes with 
a stick they will not move. They know that they 
are safer in their hiding place. 

This bird is often called a moor-hen and she 
does go to the moors sometimes. But Water- 
hen is her better name. 

And now, if there is a large lake anywhere 
near, you will see the water-hen there, and 
another bird, which you may think is the same, 
for she jerks her head and dives just in the same 
way. But if you look you will see that this 
second bird has not got a red forehead, but a 
large, bald patch on its head, and it is larger than 
the water-hen. 

It is a bird called the coot, and often the 
•' bald-headed coot," because of its bald patch. 
If you see one on the bank feeding on seeds or 
insects, you will notice that it has a wavy skin 
round each of its three front tpe^^ though they 
are not joined together. 


But the coot is not easy to see, for she is 
very shy. She runs up a tree, or dives under 
water, before you can get near her. She has 
sharp claws, which help her to climb, and which 
will hurt you if you catch her alive. 

She builds her nest among the flags or rushes, 
almost touching the water. Sometimes her little 
ones are drowned when there is a flood. 

If a boat comes near her nest, she slips off it 
into the rushes and cries '' Keiv-Jcew" to entice 
you away. If you find it, you will see about ten 
eggs in it. They are like the water-hen's eggs, 
but larger, and the spots are darker and smaller. 
If the eggs are hatched, you will know the little 
birds by their bald patch, though they are black, 
fluffy balls just like those of the water-hen. 

You will not find the coot in rivers ; nor will 
you find her on the ponds in the winter. Then 
she starts off with a number of other coots to the 
sea in the south of England, and stays tiU spring 
comes again. 


When you go home from school, if you pass a 
pond, you are almost sure to be able to find one, 
or more, of the three water-bugs of this lesson, 
and I want you to look at them. 

The first is a long, thin, black insect. He 


walks on top of the water, looking like a needle 
on legs. He is sometimes called a "needle- 
bug," but more often a "water-measurer," 
because he seems to measure the water with his 
legs as he runs. 

He has very iine haii's under his body and on 
his legs. The air between these hairs prevents 
him from getting wet and being drowned. He 
has two long feelers, and a long thin beak. His 
legs and body are a reddish colour and his 
wings a glossy black. 

If you watch him, you will see him start all 
at once across the pond. He is catching a 
water-fly. Then he will hold it in his front 
claws, and suck the juice out of its body. 
Though the water-measurer has wings, he does 
not often fly. 

The next water-bug is not so thin. He is 
about an inch long, and has a flat body with grey 
wings folded across it. He has only very short 
feelers, and his front legs are thick and strong, 
with pincers at the end, and this is why he is 
called the "water-scorpion." He uses these 
pincers to seize the insects in the water, and 
sucks them dry through his sharp beak. 

He swims under water very slowly, or crawls 
in the mud, and is easily caught. You may 
catch him too when he comes up to get air. 
This he does in a verv funny way. He has two 






long bristles at the end of his tail. When he 
puts these together they make a tube like a 
hollow straw. He comes near the top of the 
water, and thrusts out the end of this tube into 
the air, and draws some into his body. The 

eggs of the 
mother water- 
scorpion are 
stuck on to the 
leaves of water- 
plants, and look 
like seeds. 

The last 

water-bug I am 

sure you know. 

He is a 

little 

fellow, 

" rather 

like a 

beetle, 

with six 

legs, two 

of them being very long ones ; and he swims 
apside down, rowing himself along with these 
two legs, as if they were oars. This is why 
he is called a "water-boatman," 

He has a long, sucking beak, but you will 
hardly see it unless you dip him out with a glass 




and look close. For as lie swims upside down, 
the bug bends liis head down on his chest, so 
that his beak lies between his legs. 

His eyes at the side of his head are very 
large, so that he can look both down and up. 
This is very useful, for he swims under tadpoles 
and grubs, and catches them in his claws. Then 
he bites them with his sharp beak, and sucks out 
their soft body. He is always swimming in the 
water, or crawling in the mud. In the evening 
he sometimes comes out and flies to another pond 
or ditch. 

The mother water-boatman lays small, long, 
white eggs on stems and leaves in the water. 
You may often find them in March, and in April 
you may see the little bugs swimming upside 
down like their parents. 

If you take the trouble, yon may catch these 
three water-bugs in a net, and put them in a 
glass, and see all I have told you. 

ljET us stroll a short distance along the river. 
How pretty it is, with the evening sun shining 
through the trees ! What a number of little 
creatures are enjoying themselves in the air 
and in the water ! 

Pale little TommY, who has come from 





London for a holiday, slips his hand in mine and 
says, "I wish I could live in the country.'' 
When he goes back to his own home in a narrow 
street, where there is only a hard pavement 
instead of green grass, and no shady trees nor 





flowing water, he will remember this walk by the 
river. 

Look at those fish, about three inches long, 
swimming up and down under the bridge. Those 
are bull-heads. They are called so because they 
have such broad, thick heads. And they have a 
sharp spine on each side of their head, which we 
might call the bull's horns. You will feel those 





spines if you try to hold them in your hand. The 
kingfisher knows them well enough, if he tries to 
swallow one, for they stick in his throat. 

You boys call them " millers' thumbs." 1 
wonder why you think that millers have broad 
thumbs ? The bull-heads hide under stones, and 
eat water insects, and the eggs of other fish. Ah ! 




Fred has caught one and put it in the bottle. 
Now Tommy can see what a lovely eye the bull- 
head has, and the red, green, brown and yellow 
colours on his scales. 

How busy those flies are with long wings and 
three long bristles on their tails. They are May- 
flies rising and falling over the water. They are 
not feeding, for May-flies do not eat, and only 
live a few hours. But they have lived a long time 
under water as grubs, Hke the di-agon-fly grub. 
They only want now to lav their eggs and die. 


The gnats flying over that quiet pool near the 
mill are quite different. One has just pricked 
my hand and sucked some blood, so I know that 
he can feed. But then gnats have not had so 
long a life in the water as the May -flies. 

Those gnats flying over the pool were onl5> 
born a few weeks ago. Their mother laid some 
3ticky eggs, each not bigger than the point of 
a pin, and left them in a packet on the top of 
the still water. They were very soon hatched, 
and a number of grubs came out, looking like 
very tiny worms with fine hairs on their sides. 
Each swam about in the water and ate specks of 
weed. 

Why do you think they swam with their 
heads down ? Because they could only breathe 
near their tails, and so had to stick them up in 
the air. 

In about three weeks each grub had changed 
his skin three times. The fourth time he came 
out with a wrapper round him, and if you could 
have looked at him then, you would have seen a 
perfect gnat, with wings, cuddled up inside. 

Now he had to creep out, and that was very 
risky. For if he fell in the water he would be 
drowned. So he stretched himself very carefully 
on the top of the pool, and began to push his 
head through a slit in the wrapper. 

Then he drew himself gently out, and stood 





on tiptoe on the empty skin, which floated Hke a 
boat on the water. He spread his wings, and 
then he was safe and flew away. Sometimes the 
wind blows him over before he can get out, and 
then he is drowned. 

If you take a pail of water out of a pond in 
May, and keep it in the open air, you may be 
able to see a gnat grow up, for there will most 
likely be a great many in it. But you must have 
sharp eyes, for they are very tiny. 

And now the sun is setting and birds and 
beasts and flow^ers are all soino- to rest. Soon 
the night-moths and the owls and bats will be 
coming out. We must go home. 


About live o'clock one tine morning in May, Tom, 
the gamekeeper's son, was examining the traps 
set for weasels, stoats, and other vermin. His 
way led him over a bridge across the river, and 
as he came near it he heard a strange whistling 
noise. 

Now, Tom was a Devonshire lad, and all 
country boys in the West of England have sharp 
ears for the calls of animals. Tom knew that 
this cry came from a father or mother otter who 
were fishing in the river with their little ones. 

Just below the bridge, where the bank wai 





very high, there grew an old willow tree, with 
branches hanging over the river. The water had 
washed away the bank under the willow, so that 
there was a big hole between its strong roots. 

Now, Tom knew that this hole was the home 
of some otters. Many a time the otter-hounds 
had stood in the water near this hole baying with 
all their might. But they could not get in, and 
the otters took care not to come out. 

The hounds were far away now, and every- 
thing was very quiet in the early morning. So 
Tom lay down in the thick grass at the top of 
the bank and waited. By-and-bye on came 
the otters, swimming smoothly along with only 
their noses above water. 

The old otters swam so quietly that Tom 
would not have known they were there. But 
the young otters were playing and twisting about, 
so that first their brown furry backs, and then 
their white bellies, shone in the light of the 
early morning sun, and the water splashed about 
them. 

The river was very broad in this place, and 
just opposite the willow was a small island. Tom 
was so well hidden in the tall grass that the 
otters had no idea that he was there. So ojie 
by one they scrambled up on the island, each 
with a fish in its mouth. Then they each took 
hold of their fish with their front ffijet, and began



bo eat just behind the head. They ate on till 
they nearly reached the tail and then left that. 

While they were eating, Tom could see what 
they were like. They had long bending bodies, 
and broad, flat heads, and their mouths and noses 
were short and broad. Their feet were webbed 
like duck's feet, but each foot had very sharp 
claws at the end. Then- fm' was a lovely soft 
brown, but the long hairs on the old otters were 
coarse, and they did not look so soft as the little 
ones. Their tails were thick and strong, and 
very useful for helping them to swim. 

The father tore the fish with his teeth quite 
fiercely, and sometimes threw small pieces to 
the young ones, who had soon finished their tiny 
fish. At last all was eaten up, except the heads 
and tails. Then the father otter slid down the 
bank, and the others followed him, and they all 
went to fish again. 

There are fewer otters than there used to be 
in the rivers of England. But they are still 
to be found in many places. Only, if you want 
to see them at home, you must get up early 
in the morning. 



"Where are you going, Peggy?" asked Peter, 
as he passed her in the lane, one Saturday 
afternoon in July- 
'' I am going to look for flowers, foi' the 
flower-show next week. I shall not gather them, 
but I want to see what I can find." 

" May I go with you ? " 

"Yes, if you can keep a secret. I want to 
make quite a new kind of nosegay, of flowers 
that grow in the water." 

" But they will all fade if you put them in a 
bunch." 

" I am not going to put them in a bunch. I 
am going to get one of father's large zinc pans 
which he uses for the dogs' food, and let the 
plants float in the water." 

So Peggy and Peter started ofi" to their 
favourite pond. 

" See, Peter, I must have one of those lovely 
yellow ' water-hlies,' with its large, shiny green 
leaf, and one of its curious seed-boxes, which 
remain after the yellow flower-leaves have fallen 
off. I know that this plant has a thick stem 
in the mud at the bottom of the pond, and the 
long stalks grow right up, so that the leaves 
float on the top of the water. Little beetles 
crawl inside the flower and get honey from 
under the smaU yellow flower-leaves inside. 

' Then I must have some of those white stars 
with yellow in the middle. They look so pretty 
among their small green leaves, which are cut into 
three half-rounds. That is the ' water-crow-foot,' 





and if you hook a bit in with your stick we shall 
see that it has some other leaves under water, 
which are cut into strips like fine blades of grass." 

" Why should it 
have two kinds of 
leaves, Peggy ? " 

'^ One set are 
its floating leaves 
to keep the flowers 
above water, where 
the insects can get 
at them, and the 
others are lighter 
and can spread out 
in the water with- 
out making so much 
green leaf. And 
look, Peter, the 
yellow lines on the 
white flowers point 
straight to the nar- 
row end of the flower- 
leaf, where the in- 
sects find the honey. 

" Then I must have some duckweed. It 
will cover the pan so nicely." 

" But the duckweed is not pretty, Peggy. It 
is all leaves." 

"No, Peter, that is just what it is not. Paul 




told me the other day that the duckweed has no 
real leaves. Each plant is a httle bit of stem 
with a thin root hanging down in the water. 
Very tiny flowers sometimes grow in a little split 
in the side of the stem. I shall try to get one 
of these, but they are so very small, and are only 
made of two little dust-bags and a seed-box. But 
the duckweed will float on the water. 

'' Now, Peter, I want to find a 'bog-bean ' in 
flower. I am afraid it is rather late in the year, 
but there are some, I know, at the shallow 
end of the pond You must look for a large 
spike of pink- white flowers, shaped something 
like wide blue-bells and lined with a number 
of white hairs. Ah ! here is one with the buds 
just opening ; it will be all right for Wednesday. 

" Now we must have one more. A little 
plant called the ' water-milfoil,' which is almost 
ill under water, except the spike of tiny pink 
flowers which stands straight up in the air. 
Look at its fine leaves arranged in stars round 
the stem. They lie out so well in the water. If 
you look very carefully at the flowers, you will 
see that the top ones have only dust-bags 
in them, and the lower ones only seed-boxes. 
But they are so small it is not easy to see this. 

" Now I must not choose any more, for I 
must describe each one on my show-card, and it 
will take a long time." 



When Wednesday came, Peggy's pan was ready. 
She had taken it to the pond, and dipped it 
gently under the duckweed. She brought it up 
quite full, and picked it over very carefully, 
leaving only the best plants. Then she carried 
it to the show-room. 

There she put the yellow lily into the middle 
of the pan, so that the flower, and the stalk with 
the seed-vessel, fitted into the hollow between 
the ears of the large green leaf just at the leaf- 
stalk. Next she put pieces of the water-crowfoot 
here and there, the pretty white blossoms streaked 
with yellow resting upon the top of the water. 

She stuck two spikes of bog-bean, with their 
leaves, one on each side of the water-lily. Lastly, 
she put spikes of the water-milfoil round the edge 
of the pan. Their leaves made little green stars 
in the water all the way round, and their tiny 
pink flower-spikes made a lovely edge. 

Then she wrote her card. This is what she 
said : 

1. The yellow water-lily grows in the pond 
near the farm. It has a thick stem rooted in the 
mud down at the bottom. I saw it once when 
they cleaned the pond. We see nothing on the 
top of the water in March. But in May the large 




shining green leaves have grown to the top of 
the water on long stalks. They are shaped rather 
like a heart, but are pointed at the tip. 

In June the buds 
come up. They are like 
green knobs tipped with 
yellow. But as they 
grow bigger, the five 
outer leaves, or sepals^ 
open, and they are 
quite yellow in- 
side. Then we can 
see the small inner 
flower - leaves, or 
petals, arranged in 
two rows ; after 
them come a num- 
ber of stamens, 
made of thin 
threads, with dust-bags 
on the top. TheL right 
in the middle is the 
seed-box, or ovary. It 
is shaped like a water-bottle 
with a round cushion on the 
top, and has a number of 
sticky points, which lie on the 
cushion in the shape of a star. w\ter-buttbbcdp, 
Little beetles are often foiind i™ <i^L^?;™ 



in the flowers. They fly m, and suck the 
honey at the back of the petals. 

2. The water-crowfoot grows 

in our pond. It is a kind oi 

buttercup. It has five outer 

green leaves, or sepals. They 

turn back against the stem 

when the flower is open. 

They often fall ofi". There are 

five white petals. They are 

streaked with yellow near the 

middle of the flower, where 

there are drops of honey. Aftei 

the petals, come many 

stamens, and then, in the 

middle of the flower, a 

number of seed-boxes, 

each with one seed 

inside. 

The water- crow- 
foot has two kinds 
of leaves. The 
leaves which float 
on the top of 
the water are 
flat and cut 









into three half 
rounds. The leaves under water are cut into 
threads and spread out on all sides. 



 

3. There is a great deal of duckweed in our 
pond. Each plant has one little root in the 
water and a kind of stem at the top. It has no 
leaves. The tiny flowers sometimes come out of 
a slit in the side of the stem. Each flower is 
nothing but two dust-spikes and a tiny seed-box. 

4. The bog-bean, or buck -bean, is nearly out 
of flower now. It grows at the edge of the pond, 
and its leaves are cut into three long parts. 
The pinkish flowers stand out on little stalks 
upon a tall stem. They are cup-shaped, with 
five points, and have a number of white hairs 
inside. 

5. The water-milfoil grows almost all under 
water. Only the small pink flowers stand in a 
spike out in the air. The flowers at the top of 
the spike have only stamens in them. Lower 
down some have both dust-bags and seed-boxes. 
The ones at the bottom have seed-boxes, or 
ovaries, only. Milfoil leaves are narrow, like 
grass, but quite short. They stand round the 
stem like the spokes of a wheel, or the rays oi 
a star. 

Peggy's water-nosegay and show-card won 
the prize. 



It is seven o'clock on a lovely summer morning. 
Jump up and look out of the window. It is a 
shame to be in bed when the sun is shining so 
brightly, and the birds are singing, and the bees 
are flying from flower to flower. 

Why are the bees at Avork so early ? They want 
to gather the yellow pollen-dust from the flowers, 
and the dew helps them to wet it, so that they can 
roll it up in little balls. Then they pack these balls 
into a groove in their hind legs, and fly away to 
the hive. There they mix it with honey, and make 
it into bee-bread to feed the young bees. 

See how busy that woodpecker is, under the elm 
tree. He is catching insects to carry home to his 
little ones, which have been hatched more than a 
week. Further away in the field is a thrush 
struggling with a big worm : I expect that he too 
is getting a breakfast for his family. 




How busy they all are, and you in bed! K 1 
were you I would get up and pull up some ^v^eeds in 
the garden. Then you will be of some use, and you 
can learn many interesting things, while you are at 
work. 

Here is a weed, growing among the cabbages. 
Do you know its name? It is called "The 
Shepherd's Purse" (see picture, p. 12) because of its 
curious seed-pods. These grow on stalks up the 
stem of the plant, below the little white floTvers. 
If you open one of them very carefully, you wiU 
find that there is a small bag on each side, which 
can be pulled away from the middle, when the 
pod is ripe, leaving the seeds hanging on a small 
division. 

So the pod is a kind of purse, ^vith two pockets, 
and we can pretend that the seeds are the shep- 
herd's money. 

Take hold of this plant, and I will tell you about 
its different parts. First look at the root. That 
always grows downwards into the ground. It has 
small rootlets growing out of it. The root and the 
rootlets all have tender tips, and they drink in the 
food of the plant out of the ground. 

You know that your father puts manure into 
the earth before he sows his seeds, or plants his 
fruit trees. Then the rain sinks into the earth and 
takes the juice out of the manure. This makes a 
rich drink for the roots to suck in, and so the plants 
grow strong. 

Next look at the stem. You can tell where it 
begins, for a tuft of leaves grows close to the 




ground. A root never has any leaves on it, so 
where the leaves grow must be the . stem. The 
place where the stem joins the root is often called 
the stock. 

Look carefully at this tuft of leaves. You will 
see that they do not grow exactly one above the 
other. The leaves in the upper row always grow^ 
just between the leaves of the lower row. And as 
the stem grows upwards, and the leaves are farther 
apart, they still grow so that they are not exactly 
one above the other. 

Why do you think they grow like this ? Because 
they want to get as much sun as they can. If they 
grew exactly one above the other, the upper leaf 
w^ould keep the sun away from the lower one. But 
now they get as much as there is to be had. 

You see then that a plant has a root which 
gro'^s doTvnwards to take in water out of the 
ground, and stems to grow upwards and carry the 
leaves up into the sunlight. What the leaves do 
we will learn in the next lesson. 




The leaves want a great deal of sunshine and air, 
for they are busy all day long, making food. Have 
you ever thought how wonderful it is that plants 
can make their own food ? You do not make your 
food, and no animals make their own food. AH 
you eat has once been either an animal or a plant. 




In a cake, for instance, the flour conies from grains 
of wheat, the currants from a Httle tree, the sugar 
from the sugar-cane, the spices come from trees, 
and the candied peel from fruits. 

The other things you eat are meat, fish, birds, 
vegetables, and fruits, and all these have once been 
alive. 

Plants do not feed like this. Their roots take in 
water out ot the earth, and other substances, such 
as lime, soda, and potash, dissolved in it. The 
leaves take in gases out of the air. But earth, 
air, and water are not living food. You or I could 
not live on them. The plant can. 

The pretty green leaves we love so much work 
very hard. When the sun shines upon them they 
can turn the water and gases into living food, and 
this food makes more leaves, flowers, and fruits 
which we eat. 

See how useful plants are ! If they did not make 
food, there could be nothing alive in the world. 
Insects feed on plants, and birds feed on insects. 
Sheep feed on grass, and we feed on sheep. Rabbits 
feed on plants, and foxes and weasels feed on 
rabbits. If there were no plants, there could be 
no insects, no birds, no animals, and no men alive. 

But this is not the only useful work which plants 
do. You know that if many people are shut up in 
a room, they use up the fresh air, and breathe back 
bad air, which is not fit to use again. Now plants 
want this foul air. They take it in through their 
leaves, and use a gas which is in it to help them 
t-o grow. So they not only turn gases into food 









for us to eat, but in doing this they use the bad 
air we send out of our mouths, and give it back 
to us fresh and pure. This is why it is so healthy 

to Kve in the country, wliere 
there are so many plants. 

You will find it very in- 
teresting to look at the leaves 
of plants, and notice their 
shapes, and how they are 
arranged on their stems so 
as to get light and air. 

I think you must know 
the common Dead- 
nettle, which is so 
like a stinging- 
nettle but does not 
sting. It grows in 
the hedges, and 
has a pretty purple 
or white flower 
slipped like a hood. 
J, Its leaves are ar- 

ranged in pairs all 
 up the stem, and 

each pair stands 
exactly across the 
pair below it, so as 
to let in plenty of 
light. 

The glossy green leaves ot the ivy on the wall 
(ie out flat, and have long stalks, so that they can 
stand out well into the air. 
B — in 





The leaves of the Nasturtiums in our gardens 
are shaped Hke a round shield. The leaf -stalk grows 
from under the middle of the leaf and is very long. 
So the leaf looks up straight to the sky, and gets 
plenty of light and air. 

The leaf of the Horse Chestnut tree is divided 
into leaflets, so that it looks as if it were made of 
five leaves, and each leaflet is spread out to the 
light. 

The leaves of the little Wood Sorrel, which 
children love to bite because it tastes sour, have 
three round leaflets like the Shamrock, and these 
leaflets droop down at night, or on a wet day, but 
Btand up wide open when the sun is shining. 

And now let us go back to our shepherd's purse. 
We have not yet looked for the flowers ; they grow 
on stalks which come out between the leaf-stalks 
and the stem. On these stalks there are some 
smaller leaves and a good many seed-pods. 

Above the seed-pods at the top of the stalk are 
some white flowers grooving close together. They 
are so small that you can scarcely see the parts. 
But you can make out that they have four outer 
green leaves and four white inner leaves. In the 
next lesson we will learn more about these. 

Gather six plants with different shaped leaves and notice 
how they grow upon the stem. 



The flowers of the Shepherd's Purse are very small 
so we will get the flowers of another plant to help 
us to learn about them. If you can find, in the 
garden, a turnip plant that has run to seed, you 
will see that it has flowers very like those of the 
Shepherd's Purse, only they are larger, and yellow 
instead of white. 

In both flowers there are four outer green 
leaves. These are called sepals. They form the 
cup or calyx of the flower. Then there are the 
four coloured leaves, which grow above the sepals. 
These are called petals. They make the crown or 
corolla of the flower. They are white in the 
Shepherd's Purse, and yellow in the Turnip flower. 
But in both flowers they stand in the form of a 
cross. 

Next come six thin threads with little knobs on 
the top. Two of them are short, and four are long. 
These are called stamens. The knobs are called 
inthers, they are the dust-bags which hold the 
yellow dust or pollen. Lastly, in the middle of the 
flower, is the seed-box or ovary. In the Shepherd's 
Purse the ovary is shaped like a heart, in the 
Turnip flower it is a long pod. 

The pods grow on little stalks down the stem 
They once had flower-leaves round them. But 
these have withered away, and the pods have 
grown large. 
 

Some of the best vegetables in your garden 
have flowers Kke these in the form of a cross, and 
with four long and two short stamens. Some, like 
the turnip and radish, have roots that are good to 
eat. In others, such as the cabbage and mustard- 
and-cress, we eat the leaves. In cauliflower and 
broccoli we eat the flowers. 

Now let us go back to our turnip. What a 
splendid round root it has ! You can find a kind of 
turnip growing wild in the lanes, but the root is 
hard — you would not like to eat it. Our turnips are 
good, l)ecause they have been grown in good 
ground, and had good food for hundreds of years, 
ind only the best seeds are sow^n. 

Now I daresay you think that, as we dig the 
ground and sow the seed, we ought to keep the 
turnip for ourselves. But there are a good many 
animals and insects wdiich want their share. As 
soon as the turnip seed has sent up its first green 
leaves, a little beetle is there, ready to eat them. 
When its wings are closed it is not much bigger 
than the letter O in the title of this lesson. It has 
long hind legs and can hop very far, so it is called 
the Turnip Flea-beetle. 

In the winter these beetles sleep under the clods 
of earth, or under dead leaves. W hen spring comes 
they wake up, and feed on the Shepherd's Purse, or 
some other weed, which conies up early in the year, 
riie mother fiea-beetle lays her eggs under the 
leaves, and very soon the tiny maggots come out, 
and eat tunnels in them. 

In a fortnight they are fat. Then they fall to 





rhe ground, and wrap themselves up in their cocoor 
skin, just as the baby ants did in the ant-hill. In 
another fortni<^ht they become little beetles. 



By that time the early turnips are just sending 
up their first leaves, and the flea-beetles will hop a 
long way to eat them. So, when you get up some 
morning, you may find the turnip bed very bare, 
ind if you have sharp eyes you may catch the little 
black shiny beetles which have done the mischief. 
A whole field of swedes or yellow turnips may be 
eaten down in this way. 

If you clear away all the weeds early in the year, 
and rake the ground, so that the young turnips 
grow quickly, you may keep the flea-beetle away. 
But then other creatures are wanting their share. 
The turnip-weevil will lay her egg in the root 
underground, as the nut-weevil did in the nut in 
the tree (see Book I.). If you pull up a turnip with 
little lumps or galls on it, you may know that a 
weevil maggot has been hatched inside. 

Then, when the large turnip leaves have grown, 
the pretty orange saw-fly Avill leave her eggs in 
them, so that the maggots eat them all away. 
Then the rabbit, if he can get in, will eat the tops, 
while the mice will nibble at the root. Lastly, if 
you grow turnips for seed, the pretty little green 
flower-beetle wants his share, and he eats the 
flower-buds. 

So you see the turnips feed many creatures 
besides the sheep and ourselves. A good gardener 
enjoys learning how to keep these garden thieves 
away. 

Bring the flowers of wallflower, stock, candytuft, penny- 
cress, turnip-flower, and shepherd's purse, and notice their 
likeness in the form and arran cement of their parts. 



We saw in the last two lessons that a plant has a 
root, stem, leaves, flowers, and seed-boxes. To-day 
I ^vant to tell you how these grow. 

If your teacher will let you make a little ex- 
periment, you can watch a plant j^ourself as it 
grows out of the seed. Get a savicer and a small 
piece of flannel. Put the flannel in the saucer, and 
pour water over it till it is quite wet. Then get 
someone to give you a pinch of mustard seed, and 
scatter it on the flannel. Put this on the window- 
sill, or on the table, and take care to keep the flannel 
wet. Then watch w hat happens. 

The second day after you have sown the seeds, 
you will find that they are swollen and soft. They 
have sucked up some water, and are using it to 
grow. On the third day many of the seeds will 
have sent out a tiny white root, which will cling 
to the flannel. 

The tip of the root will now suck in more water, 
and if you will open a seed you will find that it is 
splitting in half. Each of the two halves is going 
to be a leaf. But they are not green, they are 
still quite white, and you would not think that they 
were leaves. 

When you go to school on the fourth morning 
you may find these two halves out of their coat. 
Some of them are white, but some are Lurning 
green above and i)urple belo^v, and everyone 
would flow call them leaves. They grow up ou h 



stem, and the empty coat of the seed still hangs 
on the place where the stem and the root meet. 

Look well at the shape of these leaves, they are 
made of two rounds with a dent in the middle- 
They are the seed-leaves of the mustard plant. They 
have come out of the seed, and have used the food 
that was in it, to spread themselves out, and rise up 
into the sunlight. Now as the light pours do"\vn 
on them, they turn green, and can make their own 
food out of the water and gases, which the roots 
suck in. For the root has now many rootlets and 
root-hairs on it, as you w'll see if ycu will iDull one 
out of the flannel. 

In a few days a grejn tip shows between the 
two seed-leaves, and grows up, opening out into 
two more leaves. These again have a little bud 
growing between them, which spreads out into 
other leaves, and so the plant goes on getting 
larger. 

But the new leaves are quite different in shape 
from the seed-leaves. They are long, and are cut 
up into five leaflets, one large one at the tip, and 
two small ones on each side. 

What you have seen happen to the mustard 
seed on the flannel is just what happens to every 
seed you sow in the ground. First it swells, when 
the warm rain reaches it. Then it puts out a tiny 
root. The seed-leaves stretch themselves out, their 
stem grows, and they creep out of their coat, and 
find their way above ground. 

There they turn green in the sunlight, and 
begin to work up nourishing food. With this 








food tiiey make fresh stems and leaves, till they 
grow^ into big plants, or even trees. 

Another pretty experiment you can make is to 
soak a haricot bean in warm water, and put it on 
the top of some earth in a pot. Keep the earth 
moist and watch the bean, as you did the mustard 
seed. It will take longer to grow. It may be 





1. Soaked Seed. 2. Root appearing. 3. Arched Stem before the Seed-leaves 
rise up. 4. Seed-leaves open with shoots between. 5. Full-grown Bean- 
plant. 

nearly a week before the root finds its way into 
the earth, and another week before the big green 
seed-leaves break out of the seed-coat. 

It is very curious to ^vatch the root. First it 
sends out only one rootlet. Then several more 
grow out, till the bean looks like a big spider 
with long legs. The heavy bean still lies on t)i 


eartli, while the stem goes on growing. So the 
stem forms an arch, with the seed at one end, 
and the root at the other. At last the seed-leaves 
grow thinner as the plant uses the food in them, 
and the stem is strong enough to lift them, so 
that they stand up in the air. They do not leave 
the seed-coat down below, as the mustard seed 
did. They carry it up with them, and it dries and 
falls off at the top. Then you can see the new 
bud, between the seed-leaves, which soon opens 
out into real leaves. 

Grow mustard seed on damp flannel. Soak a haricot bean 
in warm water for one night, and then keep it on very damp 
earth in a flower-pot. 


We left our plants, at the end of the last lesson, 
growing green leaves in the sunlight. Now they go 
on very quickly. Their roots take in water from 
the ground, and the leaves take in gases from the 
air. 

When the plant has made plenty of roots, stems, 
and leaves, it begins to store up food for making 
flowers, in which new seeds will be formed. This is 
a very important work, for seeds are needed 
to grow up into new plants, and so many are 
destroyed by birds and insects or stifled by othei 
plants that, if there were not plenty, the plants 
ivould die out. 

So the seed-l)ox, or ovary, is very carefully 
protected. It grows right in the middle of the 





flower, where it can be closely wrapped up in the 
bud. Even when it grows below the flower, as in 

the honeysucltle, the 
sticky tip is always safe 
inside the bud. 

Gather a Primrose 
and Buttercup in the 
field, and a flower from 
the ro^v of Peas in the 
garden, and look for 
their seed-boxes. In the 
middle of the butter- 
cup flow^er you will find a great number, shaped 
like pears standing up.ido down, with their stalks 
upwards, and in each of these seed-boxes there 
is the beginning of 
a little seed. 

You will have to 
pull the yellow 
crown off the Prim- 
rose before you can 
see the little round 
seed-box sitting in 
the green cup. It 
has a tube growing 
out of it Avith a 
round knob on the 
top. 

In the Pea-flower 
you will find one 
single pod inside 
the flower-leaves, and it has a 




tip. When you open the pod yor will see seven 
or eight white balls inside it, which are the baby 
peas. If you can cut open the seed-box of the 
primrose, you will find the same kind of balls, but 
very small indeed. These balls are soft and trans- 
parent. You can crush them with your fingers 
easily. They are not yet real seeds, but only bags 
of juice, called " ovules." Before they can grow 
into hard seeds, they must use some of the yellow 
grains out of the dust-bags which grow round 
chem. 

This is why the seed-boxes have tips, and beaks 
and knobs. The tip of the buttercup pods, the beak 
at the end of the pea-pod, and the knob at the top 
of the primrose-tube, are all sticky. The yellow 
grains stick to them liKe flies on fly-paper. Tnen 
the grains burst and send some juice down to the 
ovules in the seed-box, and turn them into real 
hard seeds. 

As you go home pick any flower you gee, and 
'-.ry to find its seed-box. You may perhaps pick 
a Poppy in the cornfield. That iias a fine large 
seed-box, like a covered cup, with holes under the 
cover. When the seed-box is ripe, and hangs down 
its head, the seeds fall out at the holes. There are 
so many you could not count them. 

You may pick a Violet, and when you have 
taken off the coloured leaves, you will find a very 
curious seed-box. For the tube, and the sticky 
knob at the top, are just like a bird's neck and 
head. The dust-bags which fit close round the 
seed-box are a lovely orange colour. 




If you can find a pretty purple flower called the 
Marsh Mallow, you will see that the seed-box is like 
a round flat cheese, with a long tube standing up 
in the middle. This tube has eight or twelve red 
sticky points ; there are a great many yellow 
stamens round it. Country 
children often call the 
seed-boxes of the mallow 
"cheeses," ^vhen they are 
ripe and the long tube has 
fallen ofl^. 

But very likely you maj 
pick a Daisy or a Dande- 
lion. Then you will be 
puzzled, for you will not 
find a seed-box in the 
middle. This is because a 
daisy or a dandelion is not 
one flower, but a great 
many flowers crowded to- 
gether in one head. 

Take a dandelion flower- 
head to pieces, and you will 
find that each tiny flower 
will come away from the 
rest. There are more than 

a hundred in one dandelion head. Take one of 
these florets in your hand and have a look at it. 

At the bottom there is an oval bag, that is the 
seed-box. On the top of it there are some fine hairs, 
these are the sepals. Then there is the yellow 
crown with a long strap to it. Inside the crown 




come the stamens, with very long dust-bags, whicb 
cling round the tube. On the top of the tube stand 
two yellow sticky horns. 

So you see this tiny thing is a whole flower, 
growing with its companions on the dandelion 
nead. The daisy is the same, with some little 
differences. See if you can make that out for your- 
self. 

Find the seed-boxes of the pea, wallflowers, shepherd's 
purse, buttercup, primrose, poppy, marsh-mallow, and dande- 
lion. 


As soon as the sun begins to warm the earth you 
may look out for spring flowers. If j^ou have any 
damp ditches near you, you may find in March the 
Marsh Marigold in flower (picture, p. 82). This is 
a plant with hollow stems and dark green leaves 
shaped like a heart, and notched round the edge. 
It has large bright yellow flowers, which children 
often call "king-cups." 

The yellow cuj^ has only one set ot flower-leaves, 
and inside it there are a great many dust-bags and 
yeed-boxes. If you take off one of these seed-boxes 
and look on each side, yovi will find a little hollow 
with some honey in it. 

The bees are very eager to get this honey, as 
it is so early in the year that there are very few 
plants in flower. They want too some of the 
pollen dust to make bee-bread for the baby-beea 

 

The early flies too are in search of food. If you 
watch a bed of king-cups on a sunny day, you will 
see a number of bees and flies settling on the 
flowers. 

They fly from flower to flower sipping a drop in 
each, and as they rub against the dust-bags, they 
carry the pollen-grains with them. 

We saw in the last lesson that plants cannot 
Lnake seeds unless the pollen grows downwards 
into the seed-box, and we find by experiments that 
they make better seeds when the pollen - grains 
come from another flo^ver. So the bees do the 
flowers good, by carrying the pollen, in return for 
the honey that the plants give to them. 

You are sure to find somewhere in the lanes in 
March a pretty little yellow flower like a star, with 
shining heart-shaped green leaves. It is the Lesser 
Celandine, and has a cup of five green sepals, and a 
crown of eight or ten yellow petals. Flies and bees 
come to it in numbers, for it has a drop of honey at 
the thin end of each petal, in the middle of the 
crown. 

If you dig up a bit of this plant, you will find 
some white lumps growing among the roots. Each 
of these has a small bud at the top, and will groAV 
into a plant if you put it into the ground. 

Another flower already out in the fields is the 
common yellow Coltsfoot, a very tiresome weed to 
the farmers. It has a long creeping stem, and 
spreads very quickly underground. It has a flower- 
head, like the dandelion, made of luiudreds of tiny 
flowers. This head grows on a flully stem which 





is covered with pink scales. The leaves do not 
grow till after the flowers are over. 

Look carefully at the flower-head. You wiU 
find about forty tiny round flowers in the middle. 
They have dust-bags in them, and a large drop of 
honey. Round these stand about three hundred 
little flowers, each with a long yellow strap, and 
inside each of these outer flowers is a seed-box 
with two sticky horns. The bees and flies creep 
over these outer florets to suck the honey from 
the flowers in the middle, and on their way back 
they bring some pollen and leave it on the sticky 
horns. 

And now, if you can find in the hedges the 
Cuckoo-pint or Arum I will show you a real trap 
for insects. It is a plant with a green pointed 
hood, and a purple club sticking up in the middle. 
We used to call it "Lords and Ladies," but many 
children call it " Parson-in-the-pulpit." In spring 
this plant has a very strong smell. When the 
flies smell it, they crawl down the purple club to 
look for honey. 

On their way they pass a row of stiff hairs 
(1, p. 33) which bend down with their weight and 
let them pass. Then they come to a ring of red 
dust-bags (2) which are not yet open. Next they 
pass some useless seed-boxes (3) and reach at last 
the true seed-boxes (4) with sticky points. 

Now they have come to the bottom, and they 
look for some honey. Alas! There is none thera 
Then they try to get back. But the stiff hairs 
will not bend upwards, and they are prisoners. 





They are shut in for a day or two, and then the 

sticky points of 

the seed-boxes 

wither, and each 

gives out a drop 

of honey. So the 

flies have not 

been cheated. At 

the same time 

the dust-bags 

burst, and the 

pollen dust falls 

on the flies. Then 

the stamens and 

the hairs wither 

away and the 

flies can get out 

again. 

As they pass 
the withered 
dust-bags, they 
brush off any 
pollen - grains 
which remain, 
and have plenty 
on their backs 
to carry to 
another flower- 
trap. 

You can see 
this for yourself 
if you will look 
V — ni 





for the Parson-in-the-pulpit, and chose two plants, 
one young one with the dust-bags full, and one 
old one in which they are withered. 

Look for marsh marigold, lesser celandine, coltsfoot, and 
arum or cuckoo-pint. 



When the seed-boxes of plants are ripe we call 
them " fruits." I daresay it seems strange to you 
to call a pea-pod a fruit. But if you think of all 
the other fruits you know, you will find that they 
are all seed-boxes. 

The apple is the seed-box of the apple-blossom. 
The gooseberry holds the seed of the gooseberry 
plant. The nut is the fruit of the nut-tree. The 
acorn is the fruit of the oak. 

In peas and broad beans we eat the seeds out of 
the fruit. But in French beans and scarlet-runners 
we eat the whole fruit, seed-box as well as seeds. 
If you walk round a kitchen garden I think you 
can find one, and perhaps two, vegetables of which 
we eat the whole fruit. 

In most gardens there is some corner where the 
dead leaves and rubbish are heaped up to make 
a hot-bed. Earth is thrown over the heap, and 
cucumbers and vegetable marrows are grown 
there. You will see at once that cucumbers and 
marrows are fleshy seed-boxes, for tbev are full of 
seeds. 




Have you ever looked at the flowers of the 
Vegetable Marrow? They are as large and beau- 
tiful as many garden flowers. I want you to notice 
something curiovis in them. 

If you look at several flowers you will see that 
they are not all alike. They all have a pale green 
cup, with five long points, and a grand yellow 
crown. But some, which are very big, have the 
beginning of a 
young marrow 
just under the 
green cup 
while others, 
which are 
smaller, have 
nothing but 
the stem under 
the cup. In a 
few days the 
young mar- 
row will have 
grown bigger. 
But the flow- 
ers which have no marrows under tlum will be 
fading away. 

Look inside the fading flowers. You will see 
some curious twisted pouches full of yellow pollen- 
dust, but you will not find a sticky knob in the 
middle. Then look at the big flower at the top 
of the young marrow. Inside that flower you will 
find some sticky lumps, and most likely some 
yellow dust on them. So you will know that 



these lumps are the top of the seed-box. But 
you will not find any dust-bags in this flower. 

So you see that the vegetable marrow has its 
dust-bags in one flower and its seed-box in another. 
How can the yellow grains get from one flower to 
the other to make the seeds grow ? 

Here the insects help. We found them trouble- 
some when they spoilt the turnips, but now they 
are going to be useful. 

Inside each marrow flower there are some juic^' 
folds, which the bees and flies love to nibble, to 
get the sweet juice. When they press into the 
flower to bite the folds they rub against the 
pouches and carry off some yellow grains on their 
backs. Then they go into the bigger flower to 
bite the folds, and pass the sticky lumps on their 
way. The yellow grains stick on to the lumps, 
and so the ovules of the marrow get the pollen-food 
and are able to grow into seeds. 

The Cucumber flowers are of two kinds, like 
those of the marrow. Perhaps now^ you can guess 
why the gardener is careful to open his frames 
every day. He must not only let in the fresh air. 
He must also give the insects a chance to fly in tc 
the flowers. For if they did not come, there would 
be no one to carry the pollen from one flower to the 
other. Some gardeners pick off a flower with dust- 
bags, and rub it against the sticky lumps of the 
large flower, and so do the same work as the 
insects. 

Pumpkins, melons, and gourds have two kinds of 
flowers like the cucumber and marrow. 






There is one more fruit AV'hieli we eat as a 
vegetable, but I am not sure if you will have 
it in your garden. It is the beautiful tomato, 
vvhich looks like a deep red apple. If you hav€ 
not got it 5'ou should tr}^ to grow it. Cottagers 
often grow it in Devonshire, even when they have 
only a sandy path to plant it in. 

Sow the seeds in a box in February, put a 
piece of glass over it, and keep it in the kitchen 
where it is warm. Then when the little jilants 
have two or three leaves on them, put each plant 
in a small pot with some very sandy earth. 

Keep the plants well watered, and in May put 
the pots outside the house in a warm corner. As 
soon as they are a little hardened you may scoop 
a deep hole in the bed, or path, under a sunny 
wall. Fill it with manure and earth, and put the 
plants in out of the pots. They will grow against 
the wall and give you fine tomatoes. Only you 
must be careful to keep off the slugs and snails, 
for they love the sweet tomato juice as much as 
we do. 

When the fruits are big, if the weather is i\v.\ 
warm enough for them to ripen out of doors, you 
may pick them and put them on the kitchen 
shelves and they will turn red and be fit to 
eat. 

Bring the two kinds of flowers which grow on the vegetable 
man-ow plant— also those of the cucumber. Bring in the fruit 
of a marrow, a cucumber, and a tomato. 



When the spring flowers are beginning to peep out 
in the fields, your father will be hard at work in the 
garden. In March, if not before, neat seed beds of 
cabbage, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, and cauliflo^wer 
will have to be sown, for planting out by-and-by. 
Early turnips must now be sown in their rows, 
and radishes and mustard and cress may be grown 
for salad. 

All these belong to the family which have 
flowers in the form of a cross. So you see this is a 
very useful family to gardeners. It gives us, besides 
the lovely wallflower, the purple stock and the 
sweet alyssum in our flower garden, as well as the 
watercress in the brooks. 

But as soon as our cabbage plants begin to grow, 
we find that the insects, vi^hich are so useful in help- 
ing to make seeds, can do harm in a kitchen garden. 
Early in May, before the plants are very large, you 
will see the white cabbage butterfly with two black 
spots on her wings, flitting about the garden. (Sec 
p. S.) 

Where do you think she has come from? All 
the winter her body has been covered with a hard 
gum, which spread over it when she wriggled out 
of her caterpillar skin, and fastened herself by 
?silken threads to the stem of an old cabbage stalk» 
or hid perhaps in a crack in the palings. 

Now that the sun is warm she has come out to 
lay her eggs. She does not feed on cabbages her- 
self, she sips honey from the floweps. But slie fed 



on leaves when she was a caterpillar, so she lays her 
eggs under a cabbage leaf, where the caterpillars 
will find food when they are hatched. 

The Tortoiseshell Butterfly, out in the fields, layt 
her eggs on stinging nettles, because her cater- 
pillars feed on nettle leaves. They weave a little 
tent under the leaves to come back to at night, and 
there you may find them. 

But if you want to save your cabbages from 
being eaten by caterpillars, you must look for the 
eggs of the white cabbage butterfly under the 
cabbage leaves. They are very tiny, but in a 
fortnight they will hatch out into little green 
caterpillars with black spots, and a yellow line 
down their backs. 

They eat and eat for about a month, and then 
about July or August they creep away to some tree 
or paling, and bind themselves there by their silken 
thread till next spring. Then each Lutterfly como^^ 
out to lay her eggs on fresh cabbages. 

il: you search very carefully all about your 
garden and in the shed, and along the palings in 
the winter, you may find and destroy the chrysalis 
and help to save your cabbages from the cater- 
pillars. 

But if you see some little white balls, about the 
size of a hemp-seed, lying near a dead caterpillar, 
take care not to destroy them. They are the 
cocoons of a little fly, which lays her egg in the 
body of the caterpillar of the white cabbage butter- 
fly, and when the egg is hatched the grub feeds 
upon the inside of the caterpillar. 





Is it not a curious history ? The butterfly sucks 
honey from the flowers, and carries their pollen- 
dust for them. Then she lays her eggs under a 
cabbage leaf and dies. The caterpillar feeds on 
the cabbage, and then perhaps a little fly comes, 
and lays her e^^ in him ; and the grub feeds on 
him, so that "when the time comes for him to turn 
into a butterfly he dies instead. 

Many other creatures feed on our cabbage. 
Slugs and snails like green meat, and the gall 
?weevil, which we saw feeding on the turnip, likes 
cabbage root as well. The best way to keep all 
enemies away is to make the ground clean and 
free from weeds, and to pick off all the insects 
you find. 

Find any Crucifers (flowers formed in a cross) you can — 
wallflower, candytuft, stock, charlock, turnip, and any cab- 
bage plant which is run to seed. Try to find the chrysalis 
of the cabbage butterfly. 





In May the hedgerows will be full of flowers. I 
have not room to describe them all to you. You 
should pick one of each, on your way to school, and 
ask your teacher about them. On the tops of the. 
banks, and nestling in the wood, you "will find the 
wild hyacmths, which children call bluebells, and 
the red ragged-robin, and the lovely starworts or 
stitchw^orts with flowers like pure white stars and 
narrow pointed leaves. Children call these " snap- 




Jacks," because the seed-box, when it is ripe, snaps 
if you pinch it. There are many kinds of star- 
worts. One of them with small floAvers is called 
chickweed. 

The meadows are now golden with buttercvips, 
and the ditches are blue with forget-me-nots, and 
you can find the little blue Sj)eedwell or Bird's-eye 
almost anywhere. It is a weed, with thin weak 
stalks, and you may know it by its four blue petals, 
and its two stamens standing out like horns. Be- 
fore long the tall Meadow-sweet, with its clusters 
of tiny white flowers, will be blooming by the side 
of the streams and in damp j)laces ; and the pretty 
little Bird's-foot Trefoil will brighten the hedgerows 
and fields. 

You will know this little flower well. It grows 
quite low down, and is like a very small yellow 
pea-flower. About four or five little blossoms grow 
on tb.e top of each flower-stalk, and the buds have 
bright red streaks upon them. When the pods are 
ripe they stand out like the toes of a bird's foot. 

These, and many other flowers, you can find in 
the fields and hedges and you know now how to 
look for their seed-boxes and dust-bags; and I am 
sure you will watch to see what flies and bees and 
beetles come to fetch honey and pollen-dust. 

If you do this and keep your eyes open, you will 
find out that other creatures come to the i)lants and 
flowers, which are not as useful to them as the bees. 
There is the cow, which takes large mouthfuls of 
their leaves as she grazes. There is the donkey, 
which feeds on the thistles. There is the rabbit, 





which conies out in the evening., to nibble at the 
tender young shoots ; and there are the little field- 
mice, w^hich scrape away the earth and feed on 
the thick stems and roots underground. 

Now let me tell you of a few plants which 
protect themselves, and perhaps you can find more. 
First come the Anemone and the meadow Butter- 
cup. Both these have bitter leaves which burn your 
tongue w^hen you bite them. If you walk across 
a field which has many buttercups in it you will 
find that the cows and the sheep have left them 
alone as much as they can. If they eat the leaves, 
they will not touch the flowers, which are much the 
most acrid. So these plants prevent the cows from 
killing them. In the same Avay the leaves of wild 
geraniums have a disagreeable taste and smell. 

Then there are the Ferns. They have a great deal 
of bitter tannin in them. You will find that if cows 
or sheep have been feeding where the Bracken fern 
is grow^ing, they will not have touched it. So the 
ferns keep themselves safe. 

Then the little Wood-sorrel tastes acid, and the 
Speedwells dry up the inside of your mouth if you 
eat their leaves. So these plants are left alone. 
Lastly the Parson-in-the-pulpit has such poisonous 
berries, leaves, and underground stems, that no 
animal will eat it above ground, and no sensible 
field-mouse would think of nibbling at it under- 
ground. 

Then there are the plants which grow thorns on 
their stems. Cows and horses do not like to eat 
gorse for it hurts their tender mouths. These 



Plants want bees and flies to visit their flowers, 
because they carry their pollen from flower to 
flower. But other insects, such as ants and spiders, 
like honey too, and they only crawl ; they rub ofC 
any dust which falls on them before they reach 
another flower. So they rob the flowers of their 
honey and do nothing in return. 

How do you think the plants protect them- 
selves? In many difl'erent ways. The Teasel has 
a large flower-head full of honey. But the ants 
cannot steal it because its leaves grow opposite to 
each other on the stem, and join round it so that 
they make a little basin. The dew and the rain 
collect in the basin, and stop the ants from creep- 
ing past. 

Then the piants we call Campions, of which the 
ragged-robin is one (p. 45), often have their flower 
stems covered with flne hairs, and the stem near 
the flower is very sticky. When the ants climb up 
to try to steal the honey they stick fast, and can 
get no further. This is why some of the campions 
ire often called " catch-flies." 

A very common plant in the hedges is the Sun- 
spurge (p. 45), which has curious small green 
flowers. This plant has a poisonous milky juice 
in its stem. When the ants try to climb up, they 
prick holes with their claws, and stick fast and die. 

I wish I could tell j^ou more of the way in which 
plants protect themselves by jjrickles, by hairs, and 
by poisons, but you must look for yourselves. 

Bring in sun-spurge, campion or catch-fly, wood-sorrel, 
bracken teasel, and wild geranium. 




Now you know how wild plants grow, how insects 
halp to make the seeds, and how plants have to 
defend themselves from enemies which would eat 
their leaves or steal their honey. 

Next let us look at the flow^ers in our gardens 
and see how far they are like the wild ones in the 
fields. All garden plants grow wild in some part 
of the world. We have taken them into our 
gardens, and made their flowers larger and 
brighter. Some still live wild in England, others 
have been brought from foreign countries. 

The forget-me-nots in the garden border are 
very much the same as those we find in the lanes. 
The snowdrop has run wild in many parts of Eng- 
land. The lovely blue periwinkle, with its dark 
shiny leaves, grows in every Devonshire lane. The 
large ox-eye daisies which gro^v in our gardens are 
the same as those in the cornfields. The honey- 
suckle is as fine in the hedges as on the trellis-work 
of the porch. 

But the large purple clematis and the beau- 
tiful yellow and white chrysanthemums, which 
gro^v^ in so many cottage gardens, come from 
abroad. I knew an old woman once who called 
them "Christmas anthems." I think she imagined 
that they flowered late in the year on purpose for 
Christmas. 

The lovely yellow and purple pansies, which 





bloom all the summer, seem at first too grand to 
have come from wild ones. But you can gather 
small wild pansies in the lanes, and if you look 
inside the flower of the garden pansy you will see 

the curious bird's head 
on the top of its seed- 
box which w^e found 
in the violet. So the 
pansy, or Heartsease, 
is a true English 
plant. 

I am sure you have 
some of the yellow 
and bro^vn polyanthus 
in your garden. At 
first you will think 
there is nothing like 
it in the fields. But if 
you gather a cowslip 
and compare it with 
the polyanthus, you 
will find that all their 
parts are alike. For 
the polyanthus was 
once wild like the 
cowslip, and the gardeners have manured it, and 
chosen out the best seeds, till they have given it 
the bright colours it has now. 

The reason that garden flowers are often larger 
and more beautiful in their colours than wild 
flowers is because the plants are not obliged to 
take so much pains to live nor to make so many 



 

seeds. The gardener puts tliem in good ground, 
feeds them well, and picks out the seeds of the 
best flowers to sow next year. 

You can do the same if you try, and though you 
pannot do much in a few years you will get much 
finer flowers for your trouble. You must watch the 
plant and pick off all the withered leaves, and keep 
the ground raked, well manured, and free from 
weeds. Then you must settle which of the plants 
have the best and brightest flowers. Tie a little 
piece of cotton round the stem of these flowers, 
and watch when their seed-boxes are ripe, then 
keep those seeds to sow next year. In two or 
three years you will have much better flowers. 

The pinks and carnations are some of the 
prettiest and sweetest of our garden flowers. 
They belong to an English family, called the Pink 
Family. You may perhaps not have any wild pinks 
in your part of the country. But you will have the 
ragged robin and the campion, and these belong to 
the same family. 

If you compare their flowers with the pink, you 
will find that they both have narrow leaves grow- 
ing opposite each other. The stem is swollen at 
the joint where they grow. They both have a long 
green cup with points, and five pink or white petals, 
ragged at the edge. Ten stamens grow inside on 
the top of the stem, and there is a tall seed-box in 
the middle, with two or three sticky horns. 

Now try to find a ripe seed-box. It will be 
open at the top and its points bend out like the top 
of a vase. Inside is a little upright pillar with the 



seeds growing round it. When you find all this in 
a flower you will know that it belongs to the Pink 
Family. 

Chickweed, starwort, campion, soapwort, ragged 
robin, and wild pink can all be found in the lanes. 

But no doubt you have in your garden some 
double flowers — pinks, wallflowers, stocks, and roses. 
These have a great many coloured petals, and 
hardly any dust-bags or seed-box, sometimes none 
at all. Gardeners have made these double flowers 
by growing the j)lants in very rich earth, and 
sowing the seeds of those which grew the most 
flower-leaves instead of stamens. 

Plants in the fields hardly ever have double 
flowers. They must make plenty of seeds. If you 
turn a plant with double flowers out into poor 
grovmd and let it run wild, it will go back to single 
flowers. But gardeners want fine blooms. So they 
grow double hollyhocks, dahlias, peonies, and prmi- 
roses, as well as single ones. 

Compare wild and garden rose, wild and garden pansy, 
cowslip and polyanthus, pink and ragged robin. 



In June the dog-roses are in bloom. They look very 
pretty thrusting their pink and white flowers out 
of the hedge. Though they have thorns, you can 
manage to cut a branch and take it to school. We 
will learn to-day about the rose family. 

I shall want you to bring a good many flowers 




and fruits from the hedges and the garden, besides 
the rose. You remember that some of our best 
vegetables come from the flowers shaped hke a cross. 
Now you will see that some of our best fruits come 
from the Rose Family. (See frontispiece.) 

So bring from the hedges a branch of wild rose. 
It must be ^"ild, for you remember our garden roses 
have turned most of their stamens into flower- 
leaves. Next get if you can a piece of bramble with 
a blackberry flower on it. Then from the bank 
below bring a wild strawberry plant. Get one if 
you can with a ripe strawberry hanging on it, as 
well as the flower. For there is another plant 
called the potentilla which is so like the wild straw- 
berry that you might bring it by mistake, unless 
you saw the little strawberry fruit. 

Then bring from your garden a straw^berry, f 
raspberry, a cherry, and a plum, a green apple and 
a pear. What a number we shall have ! And yel 
you might bring a peach, a medlar, a quince, a 
nectarine, and an apricot as well, for all these fruits 
belong to the Rose Family. Only I expect you will 
not have them in your garden. 

First let us look at the flowers. You will see 
that the Wild Rose has a very deep cup, with five 
green sepals, which stick out in long points. (See 
p. 47.) 

If it is a dog-rose its crown will be made of five 
lovely pink petals. They are all separate, so that 
you can pull each one off the green cup, without 
disturbing the others. If you pull them all off, you 
will find that there are a great many dust-bags 
gro"^dng on the rim of the green cup. 





No\v look for the seed-boxes. Their sticky tops 
are peeping out of the cup. But you will have to 
tear the cup open to find them inside. Then you 
will see that they are all separate and that each 
one has a sticky top of its own. 

Now look at the Strawberry flower: it too has 
five green sepals and five white petals, and a great 
many dust-bags, just like the rose. But it has no 
deep cup. Its seed-boxes grow on a little mound 
inside the sepals. By-and-by this mound ^\all 
swell and grow soft and juicy and sweet, and the 
tiny seed-boxes will be buried in it, like pins in a 
pincushion. Look at the little fruit of the wild 
strawberry and the big fruit of the garden straw- 
berry and you will see this. People often call these 
dry pips " seeds," but they are not seeds, they are 
tiny seed-boxes, each with one seed inside. 

Now look at the Blackberry flower. It is just 
like the strawberry, and its seed-boxes grow on a 
mound. But when the fruit is ripe, you will find 
that the mound is no bigger. In the blackberry, 
the seed-boxes themselves grow soft, and become 
small balls full of sweet juice. You can separate 
them one from another, and you will find a seed 
inside each. 

The Raspberry is like the blackberry, only the 
little red juicy seed-boxes shrink away from the 
mound. So you can pull them off like a cap, 
leaving the white pointed mound behind. 

And now how about the other fruits ? Next 
spring Av hen the Plum trees and Cherry trees are 
in bloom, you will find that they have the same 




kind of flowers as the rose. But they have only 
one seed-box to each flower. This seed-box groAvs 
juicy outside, and leaves a very hard shell inside, 
round the seed. So you have to eat the juicy 
covering and crack ths 
hard shell before you can 
get at the kernel or 
seed. 

The Apple and the 
Pear will puzzle you, till 
you cut an apple across. 
Then you will see the 
five Httle seed-boxes ar- 
ranged like a star in 
the middle of the fruit. 
Each seed-box will have 
one or two pips or seeds 
in it, and the boxes are 
what we call the core of 
the apple. The green cup 
has grown thick and 
fleshy all round them. 
You can see the dried 
tips of the green sepals 
on the top of the apple. 
In the apple blossom the 
seed-boxes are separate, 
till the cup grows round them, and makes one big 
apple. 

Bring a wild rose, a piece of blackberry in flower, a wild 
strawben-y in flower, an apple, near, plum, cherry, raspberry, 
and g iden strawberry. 




 

When a bee goes in search of honey, there is one 
plant she is very glad to find. This is the Dead- 
nettle. She does not mind whether it has white 
or purple flowers. She knows that unless some 
other bee has been there before 
her she will find some honey. 

There are generally plenty of 
dead-nettles to be found, for their 
leaves do not taste nice, and they 
look so like stinging-nettles that 
very few animals will eat them. 

The real nettle has only small 
green flowers, while the dead- 
nettle has clusters of red or ^vhite 
blossoms growing all round the 
stem, just above each pair of 
leaves. These flowers are shaped 
like helmets, and they have a 
broad lip hanging down in front, which has a 
deep notch in the middle. 

The stem of the plant is not round, like the 
stems of most i3lants. It is square with four sides. 
By this you may always know it from a sting- 
ing-nettle, even when it is not in flower. The 
coarse leaves grow opposite to each other, and 
each pair grows across the one below it, as we saw 
in Lesson II. 

Now let us look at the flower. You had better 




take a white dead-nettle, as the flowers are k^rt^e. 
Take hokl of the hehnet and pull it very gently. It 
will come off, leaving the green cup with its five 
points. But most likely you will have hrought 
away the long tube w' itli sticky horns, which grows 
out of the seed-box, for 
it comes off very easily. 

If you have, try an- 
other flower, and tear 
the helmet open very 
carefully. Then you 
will see that at the 
bottom of the cup there 
are four little seed- 
boxes, like nuts, with 
a long tube standing 
right up in the middle 
of them. It has two 
sticky horns. 

Now look inside an- 
other flower. You will 
find four stamens grow- 
ing on the cro^vn, and 
two of them are so long that they reach right up 
into the hood. Before you pulled the hood off the 
sticky horns w^ere close to them. At the bottom 
of the tube there is plenty of honey, but creeping 
insects cannot get it, for there is a thick fringe of 
hairs in the tube to keep them away. 

But when the bee comes for honey, she pushes 
her trunk through the hairs, and as she sucks she 
brushes the dust out of the bags. Then she goes 





to another flower and leaves it on the sticky 
horns. There are a great many flowers with lips 
like the dead-nettle. Mint, Sage, Balm, Thyme, 
Pepx^ermint, Lavender, Rosemary, and the pretty 
blue and white bugle flowers in the hedges are all 
lipped— you wall know them by their square stems, 

opposite leaves, and the 
four little seed-boxes. 

In Sage plants the 
anthers swing on a bar. 
The bee hits her head 
against the lower end, 

 which Is empty, and the 

 full dust-bag COmeS down 



on her back. 

Another flower which the bee loves is the Pea, 
There again she is sure to find honey. In the 
kitchen garden on a fine morning you will see the 
bees buzzing along the rows of peas and beans, and 
only stopping to poke their heads into the flowers. 

Get a pea-flower and let us see how they do it. 
Hold the flower facing you. At the back is one 
large petal, with a deep dent in the middle. This 
stands up like a flag to tell the bee where to come 
for honey. So it is called the " standard." Two 
smaller petals are folded together, just below it. 
These are called "wings." Between these wangs are 
two more petals, which are joined together like the 
end of a boat. These are called the " keel." 

If you take hold of the wings, and pull them 
gently down, you will find they bring the keel witu 
them. Then you will see the dust-bags of ten 





stamens and the sticky beak of the tiny pea-pod 
These Tvere hidden before in the keel. 

If you pick the flower to pieces, you will see why 
Ihe keel came down. Inside each wing there is a 
knob, which fits into a hollow in the side of the 
keel. Is not this curious ? When the bee settles on 
the wings, she presses them down with her weight. 
They press down the keel, and the dust-bags knock 
against the breast of the bee. So she goes away to 
the next flower covered with pollen-dust. 

There are almost as many flowers like the pea 
as there are like the dead-nettle. The beautiful 
3^ellow Gorse, the little Trefoil, and all the Vetches 
in the hedges belong to this family. So do the 
sweet Clovers which we grow for clover hay. Each 
head of clover is a cluster of tiny flowers shaped 
like a pea. 

Then in the flower garden ^ve have the Laburnum, 
and in the kitchen garden the Scarlet-runners and 
the Broad Beans. 

Examine a dead-nettle, mint, thyme, and meadow-sage. 
Notice the cuiious swinging anther of the meadow-sage. Also 
a pea blossom, gorse blossom, tare, and bird's-foot trefoil. 



When you were picking the flowers of the peas and 
scarlet-runners, if you kept your eyes open, you must 
have noticed that they climb up the sticks which we 
put for them. But I daresay you did not ask your- 
self why theyclimb, nor how they climb. 







You know that if you took the sticks away they 
would fall in a tangled mass on the ground. For 
peas and scarlet-runners have thin weak steins. 
They could not get enough light and air all tumbled 

together on the 
ground. They 

would be stifled 
under other plants 
So they have learnt 
to climb up on a 
hedge or sticks, or 
anything they can 
find, to lift them 
towards the sky. 

That is why 
they climb, now let 
us see how they 
do it. For they do 
not both set to 
work in the same 
way. 

You will find 
on the pea-plant 
that in many places 
where a leaf ought 
to be, there is a 
little curled green 
thread, which clings round the twig of the stick, 
just as a baby clings to its mother's finger. We 
call these threads " tendrils." They hold the plant 
up to the light and air, and let the blossoms hang 
out where the bees can find them. The scarlet 






runners do their climbing differently. They do 
not use their loaves, but twine their whole 

stem round the 
sticks. 

If you look 
along the hedges 
you will find 
many climbing 
plants, which 
manage to use 
the thick 
bushes as a 




sort of bank on which to spread out their leaves 
and flowers. There is the Clematis, or Traveller's 
Joy. It has not turned its leaves into tendrils, 




nor twined its stem. It twists the stalk of the 
leaves tightly round the twigs, so that the leaves 
stand out at the end. Its pretty greenish flowers 
are spread in this way all over the top of the 
hedge, and by-and-by the feathery seed-boxes will 
hang like an old man's beard, just where the wind 
can catch them to blow them away. 

I think you must know the Goose-grass or 
Cleavers, which grows over everything in the lanes 
Its narrow green leaves are arranged round the 
stem like a star, and it has very tiny white flowers. 
The stem, leaves and seed-boxes are all crowded 
with tiny hooks so that it clings to your hand 
when you gather it. It is really a very weak 
plant, but it clings to other plants which are 
stronger, and so raises itself up. 

The blackberry and other brambles climb in 
the same way, and the wild rose climbs by its 
thorns. Further along the hedgerow the wild Hop 
may be growing. Its stems die down every year 
and grow up again in the spring. Yet it manages 
to spread a long way, for its stem twines round 
twigs and small trees, and everything it can find, 
spreading out its broad leaves shaped like a heart. 
You will find the flowers of the hop rather puzzling, 
for its dust-bags and seed-boxes grow on different 
2)lants. 

The Honeysuckle, too, twines its stem, as you 
must have seen on the porch or the paling. Some- 
times when it twines round a young branch, it 
winds itself so tightly that the branch cannot grow 
in the places where the honevsuckle binds it. So 




it is marked all the way up, as if it had a ribbon 

round it. 

Then there are the pretty p)lants called Tares or 

vetches, which have flowers like small j^ea-flowers. 

They cKmb everywhere by their tendrils. I think 

you will be able to find 
all these as well as the 
Convolvulus or bindweed, 
which twines round all 
plants, even our goose- 
berry and currant bushes, 
and wants weeding out 
very carefully. But I am 
not quite sure whether 
you can find a curious 
plant called the Dodder. 
You must look for it on 
the common, climbing 
over the heath and gorse 
bushes. It is only a thin 
wiry stem, with clusters 
of tiny pink flowers on 
it. It has no leaves at 
all. How then can it live 
since it has no leaves to 
make food? It twines 

round the gorse, or heath, or clover, and sends its 

roots into their stems and sucks out ready-made 

food! 

The Vine and the pretty Virginia creepers turn 

their small branches into threads for climbing. 

Very likely you have a Virginia creeper on your 




wall, which turns red in the autumn. Two kinds 
of this creeper have a very curious plan for 
climbing. . When the threads, or tendrils, touch 
the wall, their tips turn red, and swell into little 
cushions. These cushions stick so fast to the ^vall 
that even when the branch is dead you have to 
pull them off. Lastly the Ivy climbs by small 
roots, which grow all along the stems. 

Now you know all the four dodges which plants 
have for climbing. By hooks, by threads, by their 
roots, and by the ^vhole plant twining itself round. 
Try to see how many you can find. 

Bring one of each kind of climbing plant. 



Some plants live for one year only. Some live for 
two years. Some live for many years. 

Have you not noticed that you have to sow 
mignonette, marigolds, and peas and beans fresh 
every year in the garden? — unless you keep the 
young seedlings, which grow from the seeds that 
fall. In the fields, wheat and oats only live till 
their grains are rij)e, and then die away if they 
are left in the ground till winter comes. 

In the same way chick^veed, the corn poppy, and 
our old friend the shepherd's purse die when their 
seeds are ripe. These plants are like people who 
earn just enough to live from day to day, an(3 
cannot save for next .year, 



But if you want to have Sweet Williams, or 
Canterbury Bells in flower in the summer, you must 
sow the seeds the summer before. For these plants 
do not flower the first year. They only grow their 
root, and a short stem with leaAes on it. The 
plant is busy making food, and storing it up in 
the root and stem, as starch and sugar and gum, 
so that it is ready to make a strong flowering plaiit 
next year. 

Then after they have flowered and made theii 
seeds, these plants die. They have only stored 
enough for a short life, and cannot live anothei 
year. Foxgloves, Thistles, and Wild Parsley behave 
in this way. 

Lastly, you know that Snowdrops, Crocuses, 
Daisies, Primroses, Pansies, and Dahlias live on for 
many years, dying down in the autumn and coming 
up again in the spring. These plants send down 
the starch and sugar into the root, or the lower 
part of the stem, or into the bottom of the leaves 
underground. 

Some of them grow more than two years before 
they try to flower. They are like people who save 
when they are young, and always go on saving, so 
that they have something to spare. 

You can sometimes make a plant store up food. 
If you sow some mignonette and put one plant in a 
pot, and keep on nipping off the flower-buds so that 
it cannot make seeds, it will grow into a little shrub, 
and flower for two or three years. 

Different plants store . their food in differenf' 
parts. The wild carrot and the acorn, which is. 


growing into an oak, store theirs in the root. The 
carrot is fleshy and only lasts two years. But the 
root of the oak is woody and lives long. 

The lesser celandine, you remember, stores its 
food in small white lumps like white sugar-plums, 
which are swollen roots with a bud at the top. The 
marsh marigolds, and the pretty yellow flags, which 
^row by the river, store theirs in an underground 
stem. You must follow the stalks of the marsh 
marigold right back till you come close to the roots, 
and there you will find the thick knob, which lives 
on, all through the winter, and sends up fresh leaves 
in the spring. 

If you can get a long piece of the creeping stem 
of the yellow flag, you will see the marks of the 
places w^here the flowering stems have come up year 
after year. They follow each other along the stem 
till you come to the plant of this year. And beyond 
that is the bud for next year. 

Thei'e is a very pretty plant called Solomon's Seal, 
which is wild in some parts of England, and is often 
grown in cottage gardens. It has a tall flower- 
stalk with rather narrow leaves, and lovely white 
flowers, with green tips. The flowers hang down all 
on one side of the stalk. If you dig up a piece of 
the stem of this plant you will see large scars like 
seals upon it. These are the places where the stems 
have grown year after year, and this is why it is 
called Solomon's Seal. 

You can make out for yourself the mass of stems 
and buds people call a primrose root. I want now 
to show you an underground bud or bulb. Dig up 



a wild hyacinth, usually called a 
will find that it has a large knob 
with small roots grooving 
out of it. Cut tliis knoh in 
half, and notice that it is a 
bulb made of 
scaly leaves 
folded one 
over the 
other, ex- 
actly like an 
onion. 

If you dig 
it up in the 
spring, the 
flower - stalk 
will be standing 
up in the niiddk*, 
and when you pull 
the scaly leaves off 
one by one, you 
w^ill find another 
bud very small 
close to the bottom of the flower- 
stalk. If you dig up another 
plant in the autumn, the flower- 
stalk will have withered away, 
and the baby bud will be peeping 
out of the top of the bulb. 

This is what has happened. 
After the hyacinth left off 
flowering, the leaves grew long 



blue-bell. You 
at the bottom, 




primrose and solo 
mon's seal. 

Showing tlin thick stems ill 
which food is stored. 



and made food. 




and sent it down to the scaly leaves under- 
ground. The bulb grew fat and strong, and the 
}niall bulb mside grew larger. Now it is ready to 
lie quiet all the winter. When the spring conies 
the little bulb will take the food from the thick 
scaly leaves, and grow into a new plant. 

Bring six plants — two with food stored in the root, two 
in the vmdei'ground stem, two in bulbs. 



Now you will be able to understand how it is that 
we get such nourishing vegetables from the kitchen 
garden. The bees take honey and pollen from the 
flowers of plants. We take the sugar and starch 
and other food, which they store up in their leaves, 
and steins, and roots. 

Carrots, Parsnips, and Beet-roots are plants Avhich 
store up food in their roots the first year, and 
flower the second year. So we sow them, and feed 
them very w ell the first year, and ^ hen they have 
laid up a good store of sweet food, we jjuU them up 
and eat them before they can flower. 

If you can get your father to leave one of these 
plants in the ground till the second year, you will 
see it flower and make its seeds. But a turnip will 
flower in the first year, if you sow it early in the 
spring, and leave it all the summer. This is why 
we sow our largest stock of turnips in June and 
July so that they may not flower before w^e want 
them in the winter 






A carrot badly-grown and well-grown. Asparagus in the bud, as we eat it, and with its 
red seeds as it ripens. Onion cut across to show the scaly leaves iu which food 
is stored. 




Now I think I hear a little boy saying, " She has 
forgotten potatoes." No, I have not. But potatoes 
are not roots, like carrots and turnips. Cut one 
open and you will see some dark spots in it called 
' eyes," Indeed you may see tliem without cutting 
if you wash it and look carefully. 

Each of these eyes is a little bud, with a growing 
tip, and the beginning of leaves. Noav you know 
that a root cannot bear leaves. It can onlj^ have 
one bud on the top where the stem begins. So the 
potato cannot be a root. 

Next time you dig up some potatoes for dinner, 
look at the roots carefully before j^ou shake off the 
potatoes. You will then see that each potato grows 
at the end of a white stalk, very different from the 
roots. For a potato is a swelling at the end of a 
stem, which grows underground. It is a " tuber " 
hke the Jerusalem Artichokes, which I expect you 
also have in the garden. 

If you cut up either an artichoke or a ])otato into 
pieces, and leave a bud in each piece, it will grow 
vip into a new plant, and send down food into the 
stems below the ground, and form more tubers. 
The potato plant flowers, and forms seed every 
year. The seed-box is poisonous, and so are the 
seed-boxes of many of the Potato Family. The 
Deadly Nightshade, with its dark black berries, 
belongs to this family. It is never safe to eat 
any berry, or other fruit, unless you know what 
it is, for many berries -which even the birds eat, 
are poisonous to some animals and to man. 

The potato plant stores its poison only in its 





seed-box, which is green, there is none in the 
potato. The potato disease which gives us so 
much trouble is a little plant like the mould on 
jam, which eats the potato away. 

In Celery we eat the stems which gro^\' above 
ground. But we earth them up to keep them 
white. For plants cannot become green without 
sunlight. In Asparagus we eat the green stem with 
the bud at the top. Those buds which we do not 
eat branch out in summer, and have beautiful 
leaves and bright red berries. 

Lastly in Onions, Leeks, and Shallots we eat 
the bulbs, or underground buds, like that of the 
hyacinth. They have plenty of good food in them 
stored up in the scaly leaves. 

Now let us see what you must do if you want 
your roots, bulbs, and stems to grow into good 
vegetables. First you must drain the ground if it 
wants it, and dig it deeply and break the earth up 
so that the roots have no hard lumps in their way 
and can grow straight and strong. Then you must 
dig in some manure. And be careful that you dig 
it in deep, for grubs and maggots like carrots and 
onions as much as we do ; and in the autumn and 
spring, when you dig the garden, they are lying 
about in their cocoon shells. If you bviry them 
deeply in the ground, then when they turn into 
flies they cannot get out to lay eggs. 

There is another way in which you can get the 
better of them. Each plant has its own grub which 
feeds upon it. There is the grub of the onion fly, of 
bhe carrot fly, and so on. So when you sow your 





seed, if you so^v the carrots where the onions were 
last year, and the onions in the old parsnip bed, 
when the fly is hatched she does not find the leaves 
for her eggs close at hand, and you may save your 
roots. 

Then in such plants as carrots and onions you 
must keep the roots and bulbs well covered, and 
when you thin them out you must make the 
ground firm again. For the onion fly and the 
carrot fly lay their eggs on the root or bulb, and 
if they cannot find their way in, the root is 
safe. 

Lastly, you know the troublesome wireworm 
which wriggles along just underground and eats 
everything it finds. To be even with him you must 
keep the ground clean, for he likes rubbish to hide 
in, and you had better mix some salt or lime with 
the earth. If he is still troublesome you can put 
some slices of potato just under the ground and 
stick a t^ag in, to show where they are, and you 
are pretty sure to find him underneath in the 
early morning. 

Bring six vegetables — 1, root ; 2, bulb ; 3, stern ; 4, tnber; 
5. leaves ; 6, flowers. 




In the autumn, when the plants have left off 
flowering, there is plenty for us to do in looking 
for fruits, and finding out how they scatter their 
seeds. 

Some drop them near at home. The poppy, as 
we saw, has a hard fruit with little openings under 
the cover. When the stalk bends the seeds fall out 
through these holes and grow in the ground all 
around. 

If you look at the dry seed-boxes of the wild 
geranium which grows in the lanes, you will see 
that each one has curled up from the bottom. 
There will be five little curls round the sticky 
knob in the middle, and the seeds will be gone. 

There is a tall yellow Balsam which is found wild 
in some parts of England, and another with reddish 
flowers, which is often grown in cottage gardens, 
which have a most amusing seed-box. When it is 
ripe it bursts open and flings out its seeds. If you 
can get a friend to touch a ripe pod, it will make 
you laugh to see how he jumps as it pops with a 
bang ill his hand. This is why the plant is often 
called " touch-me-not." 

But plants want their seeds to be carried farther 

away than even pojiping will send them. Think 

iiow many flowers there are crowded together in 

hedgerow. If all the seeds fell close round they 




would stifle each other. So plants try all sorts of 
plans to get their seeds scattered. 

I am sure you have blown the feathery dande- 
lion "clocks" on your way home from school. 
Next time you do it look at one of the little floating 




messengers. Do you remember that when we 
looked at the dandelion we found that it was a 
flower-head with hundreds of tiny flowers, and 
that each flower had an oval seed-bag at the 
bottom Avith a number of fine hairs on the top of 
it and a yellow crown with a long strap ? 




Now the yellow cro^vn has withered away, and 
che top of the seed-box has grown up into a long 
neck with the hairy sepals on the top {see Fig., p. 25). 
A.nd when the wind catches these hairs it carries 
the tiny fruit along perhaps for miles, and then 
it drops down to grow. 

Thistles and sow-thistles, groundsel and teasels, 
and a number of other flowers of that kind have 
these feathery seeds. So you see when you let 
them grow on your own ground you spoil the 
ground of other people as well. 

This is the way that wind carries seeds. 

Other seeds are washed down by streams and 
left on their banks, Others, again, are often 
carried in the mud that sticks to the feet of birds. 

Another plan is to grow tiny hooks on the seed- 
boxes so that animals carry them. The goose-grass 
does this. We saw on p. 64 that it has tiny hooks 
all over its stem and leaves, which it uses for 
climbing. It has the same kind of hooks on its 
tiny seeds. If you take a bunch of goose-grass 
in your hand you will get a number of the very 
small seed-boxes sticking to your fingers. 

But there is a much bigger " burr," wnich 
grows on the common Burdock in the lanes. The 
burdock (see p. 77) is a tall plant, with very large 
heart-shaped leaves and pink flower-heads, some- 
thing like a thistle. You often bring its burrs 
home on your clothes, dogs carry them in their 
hair, and sheep in their fleece. Each of these burrs 
is a cup of leaves covered with hooks. The leaves 
grow together into a ball with the flowers peeping 




Out at the top, and if you open a ripe burr you will 
find the tiny fruit inside. 

So you, and the dogs, and the sheep carry the 
seeds for the plants. 

But the prettiest plan of all is when the seed- 
box growls into a sloe, or a cherry, or into some 
bright berry like the berries of the hawthorn and 
the honeysuckle. For then the birds come to eat 
the nice fruit, and when they carry it off to some 
tree near they drop the stone down in a new place. 
Or they eat the berry, and the hard seeds pass 
through their body, and fall with their droppings 
somewhere far ofP. 

Now you see why the blackberry and the rasp- 
berry grow juicy pulp round their seeds, and why 
the little hard seed-boxes of the strawberry stick 
in the juicy mound. All this is to tempt the birds 
to eat them and carry their seeds. 

So too in the hip of the wild rose, the green cup 
grows large and soft, and turns a bright red just 
when w^inter is coming, and there is not much food. 
Then the birds come and peck at the cup, and the 
seed-boxes inside stick to their beaks or are swal- 
lowed, and so are carried away. 

You know that in a hard winter the holly 
berries and mistletoe, the hips and haws, and even 
the berries of the yew and the honeysuckle, are 
often all gone before Christmas. But I daresay 
you did not know before that the birds were 
carrying about seeds to grow up next year. 

But if you keep your eyes open, you can learn 
a great many things like these, which children shut 





up in towns cannot see. You are happy to live in 
the beautiful country, among the birds and the 
flowers. You breathe the fresh air, which the 
plants make sweet, you gather your own flowers, 
and grow your own vegetables and fruit, and you 
can watch the plants in your garden growing 
prettier every year. 

Try to find the fruits of the wild geranium, yellow balsam, 
dandelion, groundsel, thistle, teasel, goose-grass, burdock, rose, 
hawthorn, honeysuckle, yew, and other plants. 



These lessons are intended to be read after the teacher 
has given one or more lectures on the subject. It is not 
necessary to read the book straight through. Different lessons 
are suited for different seasons, and in some cases one lesson 
may serve for a month's work ; the children being enconraeed 
to observe and ooUect. 


I WONDER how many birds you know by sight, and 
what you could tell about their nests and their 
lives ? 

There are between three and four hundred 
different British birds, and very few people know 
them all. But in any one place there are not more 
common birds than you could learn in a year. You 
can look for the rare ones afterwards. 

The best ^vay to begin is to write down those 
you are sure about, and say ho'w you recognise 
them. You cannot mistake a Rol)in, with his red 
breast, his plump little body, and his brown wings. 
The mother robin's breast is not quite so red, ano 
the young have no red at all. But when you have 
seen them with the cock-robin, you will soon know 
them by their shape. 

But a Chaffinch has a red breast. How can you 
tell him from a robin ? His breast is much browner 
than the robin's, and even at a distance you may 


know him by the white bands on his dark wings, 
and the yellow tips to some of his feathers. Then 
his body is longer, and he moves more gracefully 
than the robin, while his loud ^^ pink, pink" if you 
go near his nest, will tell you at once T\^hat he is. 

The Lark you know by his slender brown body 
and white speckled throat, and by the way he soars, 
as he sings his sweet song. The common green 
Woodpecker is easily known by his bright colours, 
his curious feet, and his stiff tail, which he uses to 
jerk himself up a tree. And though a Nuthatch 
also goes up a tree by jumps, you would never take 
him for a woodpecker, for he is no bigger than a 
sparrow, and he has a short tail and blue-grey 
wings with a dingy red breast. 

Then you know the cooing Wood-pigeon, the 
chattering Magpie, the soaring Hawk with his 
hooked beak, and the downy Owl. And I daresay 
you could tell me of many more. 

The birds you kno^v best will most of them be 
with us all the year round. But not all. The Swifts 
fly away to the south in August, and the Swallows 
and the Martins follow in October. When they are 
gone the Fieldfares come from the north, and feed in 
flocks on the worms in the damp fields, and on the 
holly berries when the ground is hard ^vith frost. 

The Swallow^ and the House Martin are so alike 
trhat, as they come and go together, you might not 
know them apart, unless you remember that a 
Swallow has a blue-black collar across his breast, 
and that the fork of his tail is longer than that of 
the Martin {see p. 45). You may be busy all the 





year round watching the birds, seeing when they 
come and go, what food they eat, how they fly. 
whether they sing in the morning or evening, and 
where they build their nests. 

Many farmers and gardeners shoot little birds 
because they eat their corn and peas and fruit. But 
a large number of birds feed chiefly on insects. You 
ought to know which these are, for they are very 
useful in clearing away earwigs and caterpillars, as 
well as slugs and snails. If you look out early 
some morning and see a Thrush tapj)ing a snail- 
shell against a stone to get at the snail, you will 
say he is a good gardener. You will not grudge 
him a little fruit in the summer. 

Then there are the nests and the young birds to 
Tvatch. You need not take the nests, nor rob the 
birds of their eggs. You will learn much more 
by pulling back the leaves and the twigs, and 
peeping gently into the nest. For then you can 
come another day and watch when the eggs hatch, 
and how the young birds grow. If you are careful 
not to disturb the bush nor touch the eggs, the 
mother will not desert them. Last year a pair of 
Thrushes built their nest in a hedge by the side of 
a path where people were always passing. But 
though I w^ent often to look at it, the mothei 
brought up all her four little ones. She would 
even sit still on the nest Tvhen I peeped in, while 
her mate sang on a tree close by. 

Point out and describe six birds common in the neighbour- 
hood. 


Birds sing when they are happy, and cry out ^when 
they are frightened, just as children do. Only 
they have songs and cries of their own. You can 
always tell ^when the little song-birds are happy, 
for each one trills out his joyous notes as he sits 
3n a branch of a tree, or the top of a hedge. 

In the early mornings of the spring, you wdll 
hear singing in the garden almost before it is light. 
First there is a little chirping and twittering, as 
if the birds were saying " good-morning " and pre- 
paring their throats. Then, as the sun rises, there 
conies a burst of song. 

Robins, Thrushes, Blackbirds, Chaffinches, and 
Wrens whistle away merrily, and many other little 
birds join in. While they are all singing together, 
it is not easy to tell one song from another, though 
the Thrush sings loudest and clearest of all. 

Then they fly away to their breakfast and, as 
the day goes on, you hear one or two at a time. 
So you can listen to the notes of each song, and 
if you go near very quietly, you can see the throat 
of the bird swelling and quivering as he works the 
little voice-chords inside, w^hich make the notes. 

It is not easy to write down what a bird sings, 
for it is like whistling — there are no words in it. 
But people often try to imitate their songs in 
words. Listen to the Thrush. You can fancy he 
says "cherry-tree, cherry-tree, cherry-tree" three 
times. Then, after some other notes, he sings 




"harry-up, hurry -up," and "go-it, go-it." For the 
thrush has a great many notes. 

The pretty Yellowhanimer, with its brignt yellow 
head, sings "a little bit of bread, and no ehe-e-s-e." 
The Chiff-chaff calls "chiff-chaff, chiff-chaff" quite 
distinctly. Any child can imitate the cuckoo, or the 
coo-oo-oo of the wood-pigeon. 

As the days grow hotter, the birds sing less. 
They sit on the branches of the trees, or on the 
hedges under the shade of the leaves, or hop about 
in the wood. 

Then when the evening comes, and long shadows 
creep over the grass, each bird looks out for his 
supper. When he is satisfied he sings his evening 
song of content, before he goes to sleep. 

What a concert it is! Finches, tomtits, sparrows, 
wrens, robins, and chaffinches all singing at once. 
And above them all, come the song of the thrushes 
and blackbirds, the cooing of the wood-pigeon 
and the caw-caw of the rooks as they fly home 
from the fields. As the thrushes were the first to 
begin in the morning, except the lark, so they are 
the last to leave off at night, and often one thrush 
will go on long after all the others are quiet. 

Then at last all seem to have settled down for 
the night. But no ! If you live in Kent, or any 
part of the south or east of England, you may hear 
in May or June a sweet sound, like a flute, coming 
softly from many parts of the wood. This comes 
from the Nightingales, who, in the warm summer, 
will sing nearly all night. 

They sing in the day as well, but their note is 


so soft that often you cannot hear it when the 
more noisy birds are singing. In the still night you 
ean hear the sweet song rising up six notes and 
then bubbling like a flute played in water. When 
you have once heard a nightingale sing you will 
never forget it. In Yorkshiie or Devonshire you 
will not hear him, for he does not go so far to 
the North or to the West. 

Birds sing most in the spring, for then they are 
making their nests, and the father bird sings to the 
mother while she is building, and when she is 
sitting on the eggs. You may often find out 
where a Robin's nest is hidden by seeing the cock- 
robin sitting on a branch singing to his mate. 
Most people too, have seen the Wood-pigeon 
puffing out his throat and cooing and bowing to 
the mother bird on her nest. For pigeons make 
love all the year round. 

When the mother bird is sitting, the father sings 
for joy, and when the young birds are hatched he 
teaches them his song. Song-birds have very deli- 
cate throats. They have muscles, which quiver like 
the strings of a violin, and the young birds have 
to learn to work these muscles. 

It is curious to hear a young Blackbird or 
Thrush beginning to try a tune. First he sounds 
one note, then two or three. They are not always 
In tune, but he tries again and again. So little by 
little he learns his father's song. 

Listen to the song of birds— robins, thrushes, blackbirds, 
larks, nightingales, bullfinches and others, and try to imitate 
them by whistling. 



If you want to know how cleverly nests are made, 
you should collect a few which the birds have 
deserted, or from which the young birds have 
flown. 

You will find a Hedge-sparrow's nest in many 
a hawthorn bush, and though it is a simple nest, 
I think you will find, if you pull it to pieces, that 
you cannot put it together again as well as the 
bird did. 

A Chaffinch s neat is more fiuely woven. You 
will most likely find one in the apple trees in the 
orchard. It is made of dry grass and moss matted 
together with wool in the shape of a deep cup, and 
lined with hair and feathers. Outside, the bird will 
most likely have stuck pieces of grey or white 
lichen. Lichen is the papery-looking plant which 
grows on apple trees, and which children call grey 
moss. The pieces woven in help to hide the nest in 
an apple tree. When the Chaffinch builds in a 
green hedge she often uses green moss instead. 

Now try to find a Thrush's nest. It may be in a 
laurel-bush or a fir-tree. It is large and quite firm, 
not soft like the hedge-sparrow's nest. For the 
thrush plasters the inside with mud, or cow-dung, 
or rotten wood, till it is almost as hard as the 
inside of a cocoa-nut shell. 

When you have looked at these nests, you will 
want to see one built next spring. But this is not 
so easy. For birds try to hide the cradles of their 



little ones, and do not like to work when anyone is 
near. 

Rooks are the easiest to watch, for they build in 
high trees, and therefore are not shy. You may see 
them flying along ^th pieces of stick in their 
mouths, and bringing mud and clay to plaster them 
together. Sometimes you may see the old rooks 
staying behind in the rookery, to steal the sticks 
from the nests of the young rooks while they 
are away, instead of fetching them for themselves. 

Birds do not all make the same shaped nests. 
The Lark makes her nest of grass in a rut or a 
furrow of the field. The green Plover or Peewit, 
whose cry you know so well, "pee-Tveet, pee-weet," 
lays a few bits of grass, or rush, in a marsh or in 
a rough field. Her little ones run about as soon 
as they come out of the egg. 

The Swallows build their nests of mud and straw 
on the rafters of barns, or under the ledges of 
chinmeys, in the shajie of a shallow basin, and line 
them with feathers. But the Martins build under 
the eaves. They make their nests of clay stuck 
against the wall like a bag, with only a small hole 
at tJie top. It is very funny to see the tail of a 
martin sticking out, when she puts her head into 
her nest to feed the young ones. 

The Woodpecker makes a hole in a tree for her 
nest, and lines it with chips of wood. The Nuthatch 
looks out for a hole in a branch, and lines it with 
flakes of bark and dry loaves. Then, if it is too big, 
she fills up the opening with clay all except one 
little hole 




Rooks and Pigeons build coarse nests. Th€ 
rooks build theirs of sticks and turf lined with 

grass and moss. The pigeon 
leaves hers so loose that the 
eggs almost slip through. 

Then the Httle 
singing birds, the 
Warblers, the 
Thrushes, the Nightin- 
gales, and the Robins 
build lovely cup-nests. 
Reed - warblers weave 
their nest round two 
or three reeds, or other 
plants, near the ^vater. 
It is made of blades of 
grass and lined with 
water-weed. The Wren, 
the long-tailed Tit- 
mouse, and the Chiff- 
chaff, build nests in the shape 
of a ball, with a hole in one 
side. The chiff-chaff lines 
hers with a beautifully soft 
layer of feathers. 

Wrens build in all sorts 
of strange places, in walls 
and trees, in holes of rocks, 
on the tops of hedges and on the banks of rivers. 
If you look about near the nest in which the wren 
lias laid her eggs you will often find one or two 
other nests built exactly like it, but not lined with 


feathers. They are called "cock's nests.' We do 
not know why the birds build them. Perhaps one 
day you may find out if you watch. The chiff- 
chaff hides her nests in the hedges or banks, and 
the long-tailed titmouse loves to build in the gorse 
bushes. 

Once two Wrens were watched building their 
nest in a juniper tree. They began at seven o'clock 
in the morning. The mother wren brought some 
leaves from a lime-tree. She put one leaf in a fork 
of the tree, and laid the others round it. Then she 
went back for more. So she went on all day, bring- 
ing in leaves, and matting them together with moss, 
and all the while the cock-wren sang to her from 
the top of the tree. 

By seven o'clock in the evening she had made the 
outside of the nest, in the shape of a ball with a 
hole in one side. 

Next day the two birds began work together at 
half-past three in the morning. They worked for 
eight days, carrying in moss and feathers. When 
they had done, the nest was a firm little ball, lined 
with a thick layer of soft feathers, for the wee 
wrens to lie in, when they were hatched. 

Then the mother wren laid five small white eggs 
with a few red spots upon them, and sat for a whole 
fortnight, while her mate sang to her, and brought 
her insects to eat. 

Examine nests. Mxid-huilt — swallow, martin. Roughly 
woven — honse-spaiTow. Cup-nests — hedge-sparrow, chaffinch. 
Woven and mud-lined — thrush. 


When you have looked at several birds' nests, you 
will want to see what the eggs are like. Try first to 
find those which are near your home. Some are 
so well hidden, that you will have to watch T^^here 
the old birds go in and out, before you can find 
them. Others, like the nests of rooks, magj)ies and 
jays, are easy to see, but not easy to reach. 

Do not take the eggs. Each ^dll hatch out into 
a happy little bird, and if you carried the egg home 
it would only be broken. Your teacher will very 
likely collect one of each kind, which will do to 
show the class for many years. 

But look Tvell at the eggs in the nest. Then you 
will know them again when you find them in 
another place. Count how^ many there are, and 
notice if any more are laid afterwards. Then 
reckon how long the eggs are being hatched, after 
the last one is laid. You vnU. find it is about a 
fortnight for the small birds and a day or two 
longer for rooks and pigeons. Then you can 
watch the feeding of the young birds, which we 
shall talk about in the next two lessons. 

It is better not even to touch the eggs ; for some 
birds, like the wood-pigeon, will desert their nests 
if the eggs have been handled. Other birds are not 
so particular. Mr. Kearton tells us that when he 
vvas a boy he used to find plovers' nests and amuse 
himself by turning the large end of the egg into the 
middle of the nest. As soon as the tidy mother 



came oack, she always turned them round again 
with the points in the middle. The baby bird 
always comes out at the large end, so this gives 
them more room, as they hatch out. 

If you have a laurel hedge in the garden jca 
may find a Thrush's nest in it, with four to six 
beautiful blue eggs, about an inch long and spotted 
with black at the large end (see picture, p. 10). The 
mother will scold you well, and perhaps will not 
leave the nest, and you will have to take your 
chance ^vhen she is away. You may find a Black- 
bird's nest not far off. You will know it from 
the thrush's nest because it is lined with fine 
roots and grass, so is not hard inside. The eggs 
are greener with red-brown spots. The Missel 
thrush generally builds in a tree, and her eggs are 
a light buff colour spotted with reddish brown and 
pale lilac. 

The Chaffinch will build close to your house, 
or in the apple trees of the orchard ; and a pair 
of Bullfinches may make their nest in the ivy of 
the old garden wall, though they are shy birds. 
The chaffinch's eggs are a pale brown-green colour 
with brown spots (see picture, p. 20). They are 
about one-third the size of the thrush's egg. The 
bullfinch's are a pale blue, spotted with bro^^ni or 
purple. Be careful when you look at the bull- 
finch's nest, for though the mother will sit still, 
the father will be angry, and he may make her 
desert her nest, if he sees you. 

You will have to get a ladder if you want to see 
a Martin's nest, for they build under the eaves of 




fche house. And when you pull away a little of the 
nest and look in, make sure that you see the right 
sggs, for a sparrow will often take a martin's nest 
and lay her eggs in it. You can find out, by 
watching which bird goes into the nest. But if 
you cannot do this, you may know by the colour 
of the eggs. A martin's e^g is white without any 
spots upon it, A sparrow's egg is grey with brown 
blotches on it. When the sparrow builds her own 
nest, it is made of straw or hay lined with feathers. 
It has about live or six eggs in it. 

It is easier to look into a Swallow's nest than 
into a martin's, for it is not covered at the top, 
and is often put upon a rafter in a barn. It will 
have about five white eggs in it, with dark red 
patches on them. Watch these nests carefully, for 
when the eggs are hatched it is very pretty to 
see the old swallows teaching the young ones to 
catch flies {see picture, p. 45). 

We must not forget the Robins, though I expect 
you know their eggs well. They are white, spotted 
?with light red, and you may easily find them, for in 
the spring there is a robin's nest in almost every 
bank or hedgerow. 

You may look for a Tomtit's nest in all sorts of 
strange places, from a hole in a tree, to a flower-pot 
which has been thrown away. There will be s 
number of little white eggs in it speckled with 
red. The mother will hiss and peck at you to 
prevent you from taking them away. But in a 
few days she will not be afraid, for she is a bold 
little bird. 


You must learn to look for other eggs your- 
selves. In the barn you may find the Owl's large 
white eggs, and sometimes young birds and eggs 
together. In a bank of a river, or a hole in a 
wall, you may find the nest of a Water-wagtail 
with greyish white spotted eggs. The Rook's bluish 
green eggs sometimes fall down from their nests; 
and the Jackdaws will build in your chimneys. 

When you have spent some time hunting for 
nests and eggs, you will notice how cunningly they 
are hidden by their colour and their marks. 

Wherever you find white eggs like those of the 
owl, the martin, the woodpecker, the kingfisher, and 
the pigeon, they are either quite hidden in a bank, 
a tree trunk, or a deep nest, or they are high up 
out of reach. Most other eggs are spotted, and 
they are either some shade of green or grey or 
brown, like the moss and leaves and twigs of the 
nest. 

In any nest yon can find, see how many of the eggs grow 
up into yoiing birds, (-hoose one nest each, to watch and see 
ivhich child can count vip most young birds. 



The mother bird sits on the nest and keeps the 
eggs Aivarni all the time that the little birds are 
growing inside. She never leaves them except to 
stretch herself and get food. Sometimes the father 
bird sits while she is away, or he brings food to 
her. Sometimes he only sings to her. 

The first thing that the baby-birds do for them- 
selves is to get out of the egg. When they are 
ready you may hear them crying " cheep, cheep " 
inside. Then they tap away at the big end with 
a little horny tip, which grows on the top of theii 
beak, and the shell cracks, and out they come. 

If you can catch a chicken as soon as it is out 
of the egg, you may see this horny tip. But you 
must be quick, for a chicken is a very active baby- 
bird. It runs about directly it is hatched, and the 
horny tip falls off. 

The next thing young birds do is to open 
their beaks and cry for food. Some, like the 
chickens, ducks, and partridges come out with 
downy feathers all over them. These run about 
and get food for themselves. Their mother takes 
care of them, and they cuddle under her wing when 
she calls to them. 

Others, like the pigeon, the sparrow, and the 
thrush, are naked, blind, and helpless when thejf 
are hatched. They cannot get out of the nest, and 
their parents have to feed them. 

 



If you keep doves in a cage, or it you can climb 
up to the pigeon-boxes where the pigeons have 
their nests, you may learn a good deal by watching 
a baby pigeon. 

The day it conies out of the e^^ its eyelids are 
tightly closed. It has only a few downy tufts on 
its naked body, so you can see its fleshy wing and 
feel the bones. Handle it carefully and notice that 






its wing has three joints, just like your arm. 
One at the shoulder (s) close to the body, one at 
the elboiv (e), and one at the wrist (w). 

As it lies in the nest, it draws its elbow back 
and touches its shoulder with its hand. Then the 
wing is shut. But if you take hold of the hand {h] 
gently, and pull the arm out straight, then the 
wing is open. This is just what a bird does when 
he stretches his wings to fly. 

Now watch the little ones day by day. By 
degrees pimples come out all over the body. Then 
the middle of each pimple sinks in and some 


The first feathers are quite 
limp. The little 
featherlets grow 
all round the steir 
like hairs on a cat's 
tail. These are the 
down feathers. 
There are not many 
on a young pigeon. 
The next feathei^ 
are quite difPerent 
They are flat and 
much stiffer. The 
featherlets only 
grow on each side 
of the stem. They 
are tinted, and you 
- can see now 

whether the pigeon 
is going to be w^hite or 
coloured. 

It is these "covering^ 
feathers which are so 
beautiful in most birda 
They do not grow all over 
the body. If you push 
back the feathers of a 
dead bird you w ill see that 
they grow^ in places only, 
and spread themselves 
over the rest. 



Meanwhile the long tail and wing feathers have 





been growing. Those for the tip of the wing grow 
on the hand, those for the edge of the wing on the 
arm, between the wrist and the elbow, and above 
these, like tiles on a roof, gro^v the small feathers 

right up to the 
s shoulder, making 

the wing round 
and firm. 

Feel one of 
the long wing 
feathers. It has 
a strong quill 
down the middle, 
which tapers 
away at the end 
so that the 
feather will bend, 
No"w try to pull 
the featherlets apart. You will find that 
they stick together, as if they were glued. 
This is because there are tiny hooks all along each 
little branch, by which it is hooked on to the next 
one. So when the wings beat the air, it cannot 
pass through them, especially as the small side of 
each feather lies over the broad side of the next 
one. 

By this time the young pigeons will have opened 
their eyes. But though they can stand up, they are 
very weak, and take all their food from their 
mother. 

Then about a month after coming out of the 
egg, t}iey go to the edge of the pigeon-house and 




watch the other pigeons. From time to time they 
stretch out their wings, and flap them a Httle. As 
they flap them downwards, the air under the front 
of the wing cannot get away there, and is driven 
out behind just as water is driven by an oar when 
we row. But as they Kft the wing up again the 
feathers turn so that the air can pass through. 
Therefore, as they flap their wings they raise them- 
selves a Httle, and flutter to the next ledge, and at 
last they fly to the ground and begin to jDick up 
food with their parents. 

Compare a yoving pigeon and a young chicken. Examine 
the down feathers, covering feathers, and long quill feathers. 


You will find it very interesting to peep into nests 
and see "which birds are naked and which are 
downy, -which can see, and which are blind. 

By the river the little Water-hens come out of 
the egg as black fluffy balls with red heads, and 
swim away at once after their mother. But King- 
fishers come out of the egg naked and helpless. 
They have to wait till their feathers have grown, 
before they can leave the nest, and meanwhile theii 
mother feeds them with fish. 

Then if you see a young Owl in its nest in a barn, 
or pick up a young Hawk which has fallen out of 





a tree, you will find that they are quite blind and 
helpless, though they are covered with down. Their 
mothers have to bring them insects, mice, and 
young rabbits till they are full-grown. 

Those of you who live by the seaside know quite 
well the Gulls which fly out to sea and float on the 
waves. In the spring and early summer you may 
hear the young gulls, called Sea-mews or Kitti- 
wakes, mewing like kittens on the ledges of the 
cliffs. They are calling to their parents to feed 
them {see picture, p. 71). 

For though these young gulls can see and are 
covered with down, they are born so high up on 
the cliffs that they must sit and wait till they are 
strong. Even then they can only creep along the 
ledges till their wings are full-grown. They sit 
there with open beaks, crying to be fed, and the 
old sea-birds bring fish for them to eat. The com- 
mon gulls and the herring gulls generally lay 
their eggs on islands, and the little ones swim about 
when they are only a few days old. 

Or, if you live far away from the sea in the 
depths of the country, you will enjoy seeing the 
other kinds of birds feeding their young ones in 
the trees and in the hedges. Sometimes the mother 
does all the work, and sometimes the father takes 
his share. 

Mr. Kearton, who knows so much about birds, 
tells us that he once helped in the feeding. One 
day he watched a mother Chiff-chaff bringing food 
to her five little ones in a nest under a thorn- 
bush. Chiff-chaffs are verv small, graceful birds. 



Their back and wings are a kind of dull olive green 
colour, and their breast a yellowish white. The 
mother was bringing in caterpillars and flies, about 
four or five every five minutes, and she popped 
them into the little beaks stretched to reach them. 
As she worked, her mate flew first to one bough, 
then to another singing " chiff-chafp, chiff-chaff," 

Mr. Kearton thought he ^vould help the little 
mother. He collected some green caterpillars, and 
put them on the edge of the nest while she was 
away. Then he knelt do^Ti a little way off. 

The mother flew to and fro at her work and 
looked at him as she passed, but he did not move. 
At last she picked up the insects he had brought 
and divided them among the little mouths. Then 
she flew away for more. 

That little mother worked all day long, only 
resting for half an hour in the afternoon. She not 
only brought food, but also cleaned the nest be- 
tween each journey, j^icking out the pellets of 
dung, and making everything clean and neat. I 
think she must have been very glad of the little 
heaps of insects which her friend put near her 
nest from time to time. 

Tomtits are such bold little birds that you may 
often see them going in and out of a hole in some 
wall, or a tree stumj), with insects in their mouths. 
The father and mother Tit both help in feeding 
(see p. 36). They go out and come back together, 
laden with caterpillars, and after giving them to 
the young ones they start off again, calling to 
each other as they go. 



We had some young Robins once which were fed 
by three birds. They were born in the hedge of 
our garden. We called the third bird the uncle. 
He worked quite as hard as the other two. By-and- 
bye the old robins flew away. But the young ones 
stayed with us all the summer and used to hop 
about the dinner table and pick up the crumbs. 

Blackbirds feed their baby-birds with large 
worms, which they pull to pieces, giving a bit to 
each. The jay looks as if she brought nothing, 
but she pours the food from her crop into the 
mouth of the little one. The mother pigeon throw^s 
the food up from her crop into her mouth, and the 
little ]3igeon puts its beak in at the side of its 
mother's beak and sucks out the food. 

Most parent birds go on feeding the little ones 
for some time after they can fly. You may often 
see little sparrows or thrushes sitting in a row on 
ii bough while the mother j)ops the food into their 
beaks. She begins at one end and goes quite fairly 
from one to another, each in its turn. 

Watch for birds feeding young in the spring. Thrushes, 
sparrows, robins, tomtits. 1. In the nest. 2. Sitting oi\ 
branches. 3. Small birds feeding a young cuckoo. 4. Young 
pigeon taking food from the mother. 



Where are all the birds at night ? In the daytime 
we see them in the fields, on the trees and hedges. 
or on the cliffs. They feed in the garden, the 
orchard, and the Avood. But in the evening, when 
the sun sets, we hear them singing as if they 
were saying "gocJ-night," and then they disappear 
Only the night birds are about after sunset. Owls 
hoot and fly after dark, nightingales sing all night 
in warm summer weather, and if there are any 
corn-crakes about, you will hear their tiresome 
cry, " craake, craake," long after you want to go to 
sleep. 

But the other birds are nowhere to be seen. 
Where are they ? It is not easy to find them, 
for they hide themselves, from fear of the owls, 
the weasels and the stoats, and they wake and 
flutter away very soon if you come near them. 

The small birds sleep chiefly in the hedges. 
You will be surprised how difficult it is to see 
them, even in winter when the leaves are off the 
trees ; for the twigs and branches crossing each 
other hide them well. No owl or hawk could 
seize a bird in a hawthorn hedge. 

But how do they keep themselves upon the 
twigs when they are fast asleep ? If you or I 
tried to sleep standing up we should fall. For our 
muscles would grow slack, our heads would nod, 
and our knees would give way under us. 


It is different with a bird. He sits on a branch, 
and grasps it with his claws. Then he squats down 
ind bends his legs. As he does this, a muscle round 
his knee-joints pulls the muscles of his toes quite 
tight, so that his claws are kept clasped round 
the branch. He cannot move till he has raised 
himself up and straightened his legs, and thus set 
his claws free. So the more soundly he sleeps the 
tighter he grasps the bough, and the less likely he 
is to fall. 

Birds sleep out of doors both summer and 
winter, and they have a curious covering to keep 
them warm. It is made of air. When a bird 
goes to roost, he tucks his head under the plumage 
of his shoulder, and puffs out his feathers, so that 
the air gets in between them, and settles all among 
the soft down which grows close to his body. This 
air soon becomes warm, and, as it cannot get out, it 
prevents the bird's warm body from being chilled 
by the cold air outside. 

Still, in bad weather birds often like to find 
warm nooks to sleep in. House-sparrows, tits, 
wrens, and other small birds sometimes make 
holes in hay-stacks for their beds. The owls keep 
themselves warm in barns, church towers, and 
sometimes in holes in the trunks of trees. The 
blue-tit loves to sleep under a thatched roof, and 
Wrens often hunt up old nests in winter, and 
huddle together in them to keep themselves 
warm. 

Swallows and swifts do not want to be kept 
warm, for they fly south in cold weather. In 




summer they perch on the rafters in the barns, 
and if you go into a barn after dark, you may 
often hear them flitting from one rafter to another 
if they are disturbed. 

Wood-pigeons roost on the fir-trees in the wood, 
and hawks on the branches of the taller trees. 
Pheasants, too, roost in the trees of the wood, 
and it is curious that they always tell you where 
they go to bed. For they call " crok, crok," as they 
settle down to sleep. 

But partridges sleep on the ground in the fields. 
They lie in a circle with their heads outwards and 
their tails together. The father generally sleeps 
a little way off as a sentinel. Then if a fox, or 
a weasel, tries to catch them in their sleep, any 
one that is awake and sees the enemy can give 
the alarm to the rest. 

All these birds sleep inland in the woods and 
fields. But if you can go to the sea-shore some 
summer evening and lie on the beach under the 
high cliffs, you may see other birds coming home 
to roost. Just as the sun is setting many little 
birds from the fields perch in the bushes at the 
top of the rocks. Next come any jackdaws, a\ Inch 
happen to live near the sea, cackling and chasing 
each other over the cliffs. They creep into holes 
to sleep. Then a few big cormorants sail in from 
the sea, followed by the gulls, and settle on the 
ledges half-way down the face of the cliff. Some 
croaking ravens come flying from the land, and 
twist and tumble about, before they too sit down 
for the night. The sand-martins disappear into 





their holes in the sandstone-rocks, and perhaps a 
falcon will come circling round in the air and swoop 
down in some quiet nook. 



Then after a time the cackling and the croaking 
cease and as the moon rises all is quiet. But if you 
look on the silvery water you will see that many of 
the gulls are still floating on the waves, and they 
may remain there all the night. 

Watch the birds going to roost at night, and notice their 
special haunts. 





Spring and summer are happy times for birds. 
Then there is plenty of food for them and their 
httle ones. Let us go out some fine sunnner morn- 
ing, and watch the different birds as they feed. You 
will not see them all in one day. But you ought to 
find each one some time during the summer. 

Close to the house you are sure to see a House 
Sparrow picking up scraps in the yard and eating 
the caterpillars and red spiders on the gooseberry 
bushes in the kitchen garden. For the sparrow^ i? 
not dainty. He will eat most things, from a grain 
of wheat to a scrap of meat. 

In the kitchen garden, too, you may see the 
Chaffinch breaking the husks of seeds with his sharp 
little beak. He is not j^articular whether he takes 
them from the weeds, or from the beds of radishes 
or turnips which we have sown. But he does us 
more good than harm, for he destroys a great deal 
of groundsel and chickweed. 

Out in the fields the little brown Lark, which has 
been singing in the sky, drops down to hunt for 
seeds in the furrows turned up by the plough. In 
the rickyard I can see several little Finches, the 
greenfinch and the yellowhammer, picking up the 
grains of corn. 

All these birds feed usually on grain, .•uid liave 
short sharp beaks which will split tiie husks, 






though they sometimes eat insects and feed their 
young ones on them. We have to drive them 
away from our wheat and oats for a few weeks 
in the year, but they are very useful in keeping 
down the weeds, for they eat every seed they can 
find. 

The Swallows, Swifts, and Martins have very 


 

different beaks. If you watch them as they skim 
along in the air, you will see they can open their 
mouths very wide to catch the flies and gnats. But 
fche hard beak itself is very small. They have weak 
legs and strong wings, for they catch all their food 
as they fly. Notice how near the ground they keep 
in dull weather. Then the insects are flying low, 
and the swallows follow them. But on a bright day 



the gnats and midges fly higher, so swallows fly- 
higher too. 

That big Thrush which is hopping about on the 



grass is very different from the swallows. He has 
strong feet and legs, and a long, narrow, round beak. 
He feeds on worms and snails in the summer, and 
on berries in the autumn. Look at him now. He 
has his feet firmly planted on the grass, and he is 



pulling away at a worm with all his might. He will 
get it out of the ground soon, and carry it away to 
feed his little ones. 

Many of the smaller perching birds feed only on 
insects. I am sure you ^11 love them. They are 
such pretty little things. First, there is the Wag- 
tail with his black and white wings, and his long 
tail bobbing up and down as he hunts for insects 
in the grass. Not far off is a little Wren hopping 
on a rose-tree and picking off the green-fly, which 
does so much harm. 

On a bush near, sits a small brown bird with 
a grey speckled breast. He only came back to 
England from warm countries at the end of May. 
He is the common spotted Fly-catcher. Look how^ 
still he sits. Then all at once he darts into the air 
with wide open mouth, snaps his beak, and goes 
back to his place. He has cavight a fly and will 
now^ sit and w^ait for another. 

Next I want you to look at a little bird which I 
love because he is so bright and gay. He is a Blue 
Tit or Tomtit {see picture, p. 36), a small bird with 
a bright blue head and wings, and a yellow breast. 
He is hanging upside down on the branch of a tree 
watching for spiders. When he has caught one he 
will flutter off to another tree and get a good 
breakfast in a very little while. He is a very bold 
little bird, and in the winter you may learn to 
know him well, if you will give him some food. 

These birds, the thrush, the wagtail, the fly- 
catcher, the wren and the tomtit are very useful to 
UAx They kill the snails and slugs, the caterpillars, 



maggots, and grubs. So do the nightingale and the 
blackbird, and another little bird, which I want you 
to knoT^^ This is the Hedge-sparrow, a small brown 
bird with a blue-grey breast, which flutters along 
the lanes. I am sure you must have seen him. He 
picks up a tiny insect, flits a little way and picks up 
another, and then flits away again jvist in front 
of you as you walk along the lane. You must not 
confuse him with the house-sparrow. He is quite 
another kind of bird, he is one of the warblers and 
sings very sweetly. He is sometimes called the 
"hedge-warbler," and this is a much better and 
truer name for him. 

We have not much time to watch other birds. 
But w^e must look at the rooks hunting for worms 
and slugs in the ploughed fields ; and as we come 
near the wood I see a partridge feeding on ants 
under the trees. He flies away with a loud whirr 
long before "w^e get near him, and as he cries " cluck, 
cluck" I expect the mother bird and her nest are 
not far off. 

If you go into the wood you may see the little 
Tree-creejier running up the trees looking for 
insects, and the woodpecker darting out his sticky 
tongue and tapping at the trunks of the trees, and 
the wood-pigeon flying home with her crop full of 
oats or peas to feed her little ones. 

Or if you stroll by the river there may be the 
tiny kingfisher darting down to seize tiny fish ; or 
the grave heron sitting quite still, with his neck 
stretched out, till in a moment his head shoots 
forward, and he brings up a big eel in his beak. 





You can notice many of these things for your- 
selves. The great secret is to look at every bird 
you see and try to learn something about it. 

Notice the hard beaks of birds which eat seeds— ChaflQnch. 
The hooked beaks of birds which eat flesh— Hawk. The wide 
gape of birds which catch insects on the wing — Swallow. The 
long, slender beaks of birds which feel underground for food — 
Woodcock. 



When the summer is over, there is not so much 
food for the birds, and some begin to go away. 
Those which live on flying insects go first. The 
cuckoo is generally gone by the end of July. The 
swifts start off in August, and about the middle 
of September the swallows begin to find very 
few flies, gnats, or moths, and get ready for their 
long journey. 

If you keep a sharp look-out you may see the 
Swallows and Martins collecting, about the 15th of 
September, on some church tower, or perhaps on 
the roof of a barn, and flying off together to roost 
in the trees. This they never do in the summer 
Then they sleep on the rafters of some barn, or 
under the eaves of a roof, always keeping near 
buildings. But before they fly away for the winter 
they gather together in the trees, or on the willows 
in the osier beds. 

Then ggjjie morning yery early they all dis- 





appear. They have started to fly steadily in large 
flocks, for hundreds of miles, to Africa, where they 
will have Avarni weather, and insects to eat, all the 
winter. You will not see them again till next April. 





The little Fly-catchers and the Nightingales go 
away about the same time as the swallows, and the 
Chiff-chafP goes in October. Some of the Wagtails 
and Robins go too, but not nearly all. 




A great many birds shift from place to place in 
England during the autumn, for food begins to be 
scarce, and they wander in search of it. Many 
thrushes and redwings come to us from Norway 
and Germany, and robins, finches, and other birds 
come from the north of England to the south, 
They leave the cold moors and mountains of Cum- 
berland and Yorkshire to feed in Hampshire and 
Devonshire, where they can find more berries, such 
as hips and haws, holly-berries, juniper-berries, 
sloes, and the red berries of the mountain ash. So 
if you live in the south of England, you may see 
more robins, thrushes, chafiinches, and yellow- 
hammers in the winter than you did in the 
summer. 

You will find it very interesting to watch for the 
different birds, and see when they come and go, and 
whether you see many or few of any one kind. 

You will notice that in winter the little birds 
move about in flocks, instead of alone, or in pairs, 
as they do in the summer, ^len they have their 
nests and families. In November you will see a 
great many larks together. The cock-chaffinches 
sometimes fly in one flock, and the hen-chaffinches 
in another. The Finches, too, fly in parties ; yellow- 
hammers, greenfinches, and goldfinches all together. 
They hunt about for seeds, and sleep on the ground, 
or in the ivy bushes. But the Bullfinches, with their 
lovely blue-black wings and bright red breasts, keep 
together in small flocks, flying in a line one after 
the other along the hedges. 

These flocks of different birds flit about from 



one field to another, keeping together, and scatter- 
ing over one place at a time, looking for food. 

When many of our summer birds have gone 
to the sunny south, other birds come to us from 
still colder countries. The Fieldfares fly over from 
Norway and Sweden. You may see them, in parties 
of about forty or fifty, wheeling round in the air, and 
settling down on a field to look for grubs and seeds. 
They are pretty grey birds with brown-red wings 
and buff speckled breasts. But you cannot often 
get near enough to see them, for they are very shy. 
If they hear a noise they are off in a moment, and 
over the hedge into the next field, where they drop 
down again to feed. They sleep on the ground ; 
and go back to Norway to build their nests in the 
spring. 

A great many Starlings come from Norway and 
Germany in the ^nter, and join those which live 
with us always. They often fiy about with the 
rooks, but sometimes in flocks by themselves peck- 
ing in the fields and chattering one to another. 

So when the song-birds are silent in the wintei*, 
you can look out for all these other birds and find 
out where they feed and sleep ; when you first see 
them come, and when you see the last one go. But 
the thrush and the robin will sing all the year 
through, when the weather is mild. 

Make a list of summer birds which yoxi do not see in the 
winter. Make a list of winter birds which go away in the 
spring. Make another list of birds you see all the year roimd. 


When Christinas is past and the real winter cold 
begins, the poor little birds often have a hard time. 
So long as the weather is mild, the thrush picks out 
the slugs and snails from their hiding-places in the 
walls and palings. The robin and the wren bustle 
about, looking for seeds and insects. The little wag- 
tails run about the lawns wagging their tails, as 
they try to find a stray grub or beetle. In the 
wood the tree-creeper hunts for spiders and the 
eggs of insects in the bark of the trees, and the 
nut-hatches and pigeons feed under the beeches. 

But after a while, when a hard frost comes, 
and snow lies deep on the ground, the birds look 
very sad. The larks and the linnets crouch down 
under the banks of the cornfields to keep warm. 
The thrushes fly from tree to tree to look for a 
few mistletoe berries, now that all the others are 
eaten. The chaffinches and the yellow-hammers 
fly round the farmers ricks, to pull out some 
grains of wheat or oats, or grass seeds. The field- 
fares wander sadly about in flocks. The rooks, 
starlings, and jackdaws fly from field to field 
screaming and cawing as they try to find some 
place where the wind has blown the snow away and 
they can peck in the furrows. The lapwings, which 
you may know b}^ the feathers, which stand up on 
the back of their head, cry " peewit, peewit " mourn- 
fully, as they journey to the sea-coast, where they 
find food on the sands and mudflats at low tide. 




It IS sad to think how often little birds are 
starved to death. They do not so much mind the 




cold, for you remember that the air under their 
teathers keeps them warm. But in a hard winter 
they often die from want of food. If you pick up a 
dead robin, starling, or rook after a long frost, you 





will find that the bones are only covered with skin 
and feathers. Its flesh has all wasted away. 

Now is your time to be kind to the birds which 
have sung to you all the summer. They did good 
work then, eating the caterpillars and grubs, the 
tvire-worms and maggots, the slugs and snails, and 
keeping down the weeds by eating the seeds. Now^ 
you can feed them, for a little while, till the frost 
and snow^ are gone. 

You will learn to know a great many birds in 
this way, and you need only give them a few scraps, 
which you can well spare. Some birds, you will 
remember, like seeds and crumbs and green food, 
Others, which eat insects in the summer, will be 
glad of a little gristle or fat. 

So you must save up every scrap from break- 
fast, dinner, and supper, and keep it for the next 
morning — crusts of bread, the crumbs off the 
table, cold potatoes, and potato skins. You can 
get your mother to boil the potatoes in their 
skins, and then the birds will like the peel. 
Perhaps, too, you may save some pieces of 
cabbage, some apple parings, and a little fat. 

All this will make a nice dish for starving birds, 
if you chop it up and pour a little hot w^ater over 
the crusts. And if you live on a farm you may be 
able to sweep up a few grains of corn in the 
stables, before they are thro^wn away with the 
manure. 

Then clear the snow away in front of your door, 
throw the food down and go back out of sight. 
The birds will soon come, and in a few days they 




win even be waiting about for their morning meal 
before you bring it. 

You must not forget to hang a piece of fat from 
the branch of a tree, so that you may see the tits 
hang head downwards on the string to peck at it. 
A.nd if you hang up a bone with a httle meat on 
it the starKngs and jackdaws will come too. 





Then remember that birds want to drink. You 
can put water for them in a pan, if you change it 
when it freezes. But if you can spare a few pence 
to buy a cocoa-nut, you may make it serve two 
purposes. 

Saw it across the middle, and scoop out all the 
white from one half. Bore two holes near the rim of 
this cup, and make a handle with a piece of string 
Then hang it on a tree and put some water in it 
The l.urds will sit on the rim and drink. And as 



they nialcG it swing to and fro the water will not 
freeze. Then hang up the other half in the same 
way, but leave the white inside. The little tomtits 
will peck away, and light for the sweet food till it 
is all gone. 

A number of birds will come — robins, chaffinches, 
sparrows, wrens, starlings, rooks, jackdaws, 
thrushes, and many others. You will be able to 
notice the difference between the big missel-thrush, 
with his white spotted breast, and the smaller 
brown song-thrush. And if you put some nuts on 
the window-sill the nuthatch may come to fetch 
them if he lives near. 

So you will see the birds more closely than you 
can at any other time, and next summer, when 
they sing in the trees, they will be old friends. 

Iake a list of the birds which come to feed at youi' door in 
winter. 

There are many other small birds which you may 
find out for yourselves, but I should like to tell you of 
a few which are interesting. First there is the little 
Goldfinch, which is so useful to us because it eats 
thistle seeds and dandelion seeds. It builds a lovely 
little nest of fine roots, wool, and horsehair, and 
often lines it with the soft down of the coltsfoot, 
that big yellow flower which blooms in the spring 


and has feathery seed-boxes. The goldfinch has a 
beautiful red forehead and throat, and black wings 
barred with yellow, and tij)ped 'with, white. You 
may know it from the bullfinch because its breast 
is pale brown, while the bullfinch has a rich red 
breast and grey and black wings. 

Then there is the cock-Linnet with his crimson 
breast, bro^n wings, and a red patch on his head. 
Linnets change colour at difl^erent times of the 
year. In the winter, the breasts of both birds are 
grey striped with brown. 

All birds moult, that is change their feathers, at 
least once a year. The father-birds are nearly 
alw^ays more gaudy ^vhen they are building their 
nests. You will notice too that hen-birds are 
scarcely ever so gay as their mates. This is most 
likely because they sit on the nests, and it would 
not do for them to be seen too easily. 

Linnets feed in big flocks in the winter. You 
may see them in the evening dropping down among 
the gorse and other bushes to sleep. It is sad that 
both the goldfinch and the linnet are caught and 
sold to sing in cages. This is why we have not 
nearly so many in England as ^ve used to have. 

I hope you wall look out for the Nuthatch, a 
little bird with a short black beak, a blue-grey 
back and wings, and a pale yellow breast, shaded 
with red. He is often seen in orchards and gardens 
m the autumn, when the nuts are ripe. You may 
catch sight of him coming down a nut tree, head 
downwards. He sticks the nuts into the cracks of 
the trunk and hammers them with his beak to 



break them. You may sometimes find a little 
store of nuts which he has hidden at the foot of 
the tree. . He feeds on other things, besides nuts 
and beech-mast, and he will peck at a piece of 
bacon in winter, if you hang it out for him. 

You must listen for the Blackcap. You will hear 
him more easily than you will see him. He is a 
little dark grey bird, with a black head and a pale 
grey breast, and sings almost as well as a nightin- 
gale. He comes back to England in April, and if 
you listen well you may hear him practising his 
song. He hides himself in a thick bush and begins 
gently in a low voice, singing over and over again 
till he gains strength. In a few days his voice is 
ready, and he trills out a wild, sweet song all the 
summer day, flitting from bush to bush as he sings. 
He feeds on insects and berries, and brings up four 
or five little ones in a lovely nest made of dry grass 
and spiders' Tvebs, and lined with horsehair. Then 
he flies away in October till the next spring. But 
he has been so often caught that he is not so 
common as he used to be. 

Then there is the little Whitetnroat, which 
creeps along almost everywhere under the hedges, 
and is often called the " nettle-creeper." He too is 
a brown-grey bird with a little red at the tips oi 
his feathers and on his breast. He hops and flies 
a little way as the hedge-sparrow does, chattering 
all the time, and sometimes flying higher and 
higher and singing louder. He, too, comes in 
May and goes in October. 
. There are two other little birds you may very 





likely see. One is the Stonechat, which Uves on 

commons and sits on the top of the furze bushes. 

It is a small brown-black 

bird with white markings 

and a rusty red breast. It 

cries " chat, chat, chat," 

and hides its nest so well 

in the gorse bushes that 

you will scarcely find one. 

The other is the little 
Dipper or water- 
ouzel, which hops 
about the stones 
in the bed of " 
rapid streams 
ana rivers. It feeds on 
insects and water snails. 
It is a black bird not 
quite as big as a thrush, 
with a very short tail and a 
sno^'y-white breast. It has a 
curious way of dipping its head 
down and flirting its tail. 

There is no room to tell about 
magpies or jays, but if you have 
any near you, you will know 
them already. 






Find out these small birds and any others in your neigh- 
oourhood, and try to know their nests and eggs. 


We call " Birds of Prey " those which feed on the 
smaller animals, such as rabbits, mice, frogs, and 
snakes, as well as on other birds. The chief kinds 
in our country are eagles, falcons, hawks, and 
owls. 

If you live in the mountains of Scotland, or the 
north of England, you may, perhaps, have seen 
an eagle {see picture, p. 51). But the birds of 
prey you are most likely to know are hawks 
and owls. 

I am sure that sometimes when you are in the 
fields, you must have seen a bird with long pointed 
wings and a tail like a fan hovering in the air. 
This is the Kestrel or common hawk. Country 
people call him the " wind-hover." His wings beat 
the air so quickly that you can scarcely see them 
move, yet he keeps quite still in the same place. 
His bright eyes look eagerly on the ground. Now 
he darts a little up or down, and floats along some 
distance. Now he hovers again, and all at once 
drops to the ground. He has seen a mouse in the 
grass, and rises up with it in his claws. 

Farmers often shoot kestrels because they steal 
young partridges and chickens, when they cannot 
find other food. But they are very useful in killing 
field-mice, moles, beetles, and all kinds of vermin. 

If you cannot tame a young hawk, nor find a 



dead one, you can see on pp. 51 aiid 61 how to 
know a bird of prey. Look at the long toes and 
sharp claws of the eagle or the hawk. They pierce 
the skin of any animal he seizes. His hooked beak 
is A'ery strong, and has sharp edges, so that it cuts 
Uke shears. The upper half is pointed, and hangs 
over the lower half. A few strong pecks with this 
cruel beak soon kill the tiny mouse or larger 
animals, which are swallowed whole or torn to 
pieces. After a little time the furry skin and the 
bones are thrown up in a ball. The feet and legs of 
a bird of prey are covered ^th scales, so that when 
he is fighting he is not so much hurt by hard pecks. 

The kestrel's wings are strong and pointed, and 
he can fly quickly, or keep himself floating, as he 
pleases. He is about as large as a wood-pigeon. 
His back and ^ngs are a bright brick-red, and 
his tail is grey, tipped with white, with a black 
band across. The long feathers of his wings are 
black, while his breast is pale yellow. 

Another common hawk is the Sparrow-hawk, 
which has dark grey wings and a reddish-brown 
breast with orange stripes. He does not often 
hover, but glides along the hedges looking for 
birds and mice. He does more harm than the 
kestrel, for he often kills game. But he is useful in 
destroying mice, and insects, and in preventing the 
small birds, which eat the corn, from becoming too 
numerous. The mother sparrow-hawk is much 
larger than the father. 

Owls, like hawks, have hooked beaks and long 
sharp claws. But their beak is not so strong, and 



their feet are more useful for climbing. Their four 
toes stand, three in front and one behind, like most 
birds, but they can turn back the outer front toe so 
as to have two in front and two behind, like the 
woodpecker. 

Notice too the difference in their eyes. A hawk 
has his eyes on the sides of his head, but the ow^l 
has his in front of his face like you or 1. So, 
when he hunts in the twilight, he can peer down 
at things close to him. He can make the pupil of 
his eye as large as the cat does, so as to gather all 
the light there is. His feathers are so soft and 
downy that he makes very little noise as he flies, 
and he has large hidden ears with flaps over them, 
and can hear the slightest sound. Some owls have 
ear tufts sticking up in the air like a cat's ear. 

The owl you hear so often crying " to-whoo, 
to-whoo " is the brown or Ta^vny Owl. He hunts in 
the early morning and late evening. In the day- 
time he hides in holes of the trees and in church 
towers. If he is driven into the sunlight he winks 
and blinks, and cannot see clearly. But in the 
dusk, or the moonlight he flies noiselessly along 
the hedges, and catches mice, moles, frogs, and 
birds, swallowing the small ones whole and throvi^- 
ing back the feathers and skin in little balls. 

The Barn Owl is a much lighter bird than the 
brown owl. His back and wings are buff colour, 
and his breast and face are white. He cries "te- 
whit, te-whee " in a loud screech, and is therefore 
often called the "Screech Owl." He hides in the 
barn, or in trees, by day and hunts by night, feeding 



chiefly on mice. When he conies out by daylight 
the chaffinches and other little birds tease him, for 
they know he cannot see well. 

Compare a hawk and an owl. Notice the cere, or piece of 
bare skin at the top of the beak, which all birds of prey have. 
It is partly covered by bristles in the owls. Try to draw the 
foot and beak of the eagle, pp. 51 and 73. 




"You go and scare they rooks out o' that field. 
They be eating all the seed," I heard a Devonshire 
farmer say to his boy one day. He was quite right. 
He had not sown his wheat deep enough, and the 
rooks were feeding on it. 

But some time after another farmer pointed to 
the rooks in his field, where the corn was green. 
"See how they be pulling up they young oats," 
said he. And so they were. But when we looked 
at the plants which they had pecked up, we found 
that each one had a place in the root where a grub 
had been living. 

This time the rooks had been doing useful work. 
Wire-worms and other grubs eat away the roots of 
grass, corn, and turnips all across a field. When the 
rooks kill a few grubs, they often save the whole 
crop. 

Once, a long time ago, some Devoi:shire farmers 
gave a large reward for rooks' heads, thinking they 
did harm to the farms. All the rooks around were 

 

soon killed. But the farmers were sorry after- 
wards. During the next three years all their crops 
were destroyed by insects and grubs. They had to 
persuade some fresh rooks to build in their neigh- 
bourhood to keep down the insects. 

No doubt rooks do some mischief, for they eat 
birds' eggs, and newly sown corn, new potatoes, and 
green walnuts. They even sometimes pull grain 
out of the stacks, when they are short of food. But 
they destroy so many wire-worms and grubs, snails 
and slugs, maggots and insects of all kinds, that 
they do more good than harm. 

You all know the heavy whirring cockchafer, 
which flops into your face in the evening. But 
perhaps you do not know that before he had wings 
he lived for three or four years undergrovmd feed- 
ing on the roots of grass and corn. Rooks eat these 
cockchafer grubs wherever they can find them, 
and so save our crops. 

I hope you have rooks near you, for they are 
delightful to watch. When they build their huge 
nests high up in the forks of trees, they make a 
great deal of noise and bustle. The father-rook 
begins to fetch food for his mate even before she 
lays her eggs, and feeds her all the time she is 
sitting. 

The old birds feed the young ones long after 
they are hatched. If you watch, you may see the 
young ones sitting on the edge of the nest opening 
their mouths to be fed. Rooks like to build near 
old houses, and use the same nests year after year. 
They will not allow strange rooks to join them. 





If the trees in which they huild lose their leaves 
ill winter, the rooks do not stay there long after 




the last young ones are able to ny. About August 
or September they often go to the beech and pine 
woods to sleep, and do not come back to their 



rookery till the spring. But every now and then 
on their way to and fro they call at their rookery 
and look after their nests. 

Crows do not live together in numbers like 
rooks. They live in pairs, and build their nests 
in the top of some high tree away from houses. 
They are more mischievous than rooks, for they 
feed on birds and young lambs, young pigeons, 
ducks, or chickens. 

You may tell a crow from a rook at a dis- 
tance because you very seldom see more than two 
together. When you can see them near, you will 
know them apart, because the rook, after he is a 
year old, has a bald patch on his head just above 
his beak, where the crow has feathers. 

Have you ever noticed how gravely a rook 
walks across a field? He does not hop like a 
thrush or a sparrow, but moves one foot after the 
other, and gives a little jump every now and then. 
One or two always remain on the trees near, to 
give notice of danger, and when these sentinels cry 
" caw-caw " the whole flock rises. They fly away, 
flapping their wings slowly, and drop down one 
by one in another field. 

A friend of mine who lives near a rookery says 
she often sees from her window one or two sen- 
tinel rooks go round every morning and wake up 
the others, and it is very funny to see how the 
lazy ones scramble up in a great hurry at the last, 
so as to be in time to fly away with the rest. 

Though rooks will not allow another party of 
their own kind to join them, they allow starlings, 




jackdaws, and fieldfares to feed with them. A 
Jackdaw moves much Hke a rook, though he is 
a more sprightly bird. He is smaller and has a 
grey patch on his 
head. The Starling 
{see p. 53) is a walk- 
ing bird. Though 
his head and back 
are black, he has so 
many bright colours 
on the tips of his 
feathers that he does 
not look so dark as 
the rook and the 
jackdaw, but very 
bright and gay. 

I wonder why 
these birds like so 
much to follow the 
rooks ? Perhaps it is 
because the rook has 
a keen scent, and 

turns up the earth for food with his long beak. 
The jackdaw and starling only pick up what they 
find above ground, so when the rook turns up the 
earth, they may get some of the food. 





Try to see a rook, a crow, a jackdaw, and a starling, a 
magpie and a jay, and point out how you know them apart. 

 

Besides the birds which live and feed on the land 
there are a great many which live mostly on the 
water. Some of these are called "waders," and 
some are " swimmers " and have webbed feet. We 
read about two waders, the coot and the moorhen, 
in Book II. To-day we will talk about the swim 
ming birds. 

If you live by the seaside, you will know the 
gulls which float on the sea, and often fly a long 
way up the rivers. Gulls come up the river Thames 
as far as London, and feed in the ponds of the 
parks. In the winter it is a pretty sight to watch 
them circling round and round, and catching the 
food which people throw to them. 

You may have seen Cormorants {see p. 38), big 
black birds which fly heavily over the sea, with 
their long necks stretched out and their narrow 
wings beating the air. Then they settle on the 
water, and suddenly jump up and dive down head 
foremost, presently coming up with a fish, which 
it takes them often some time to swallow. 

But if you live in the country near a large lake 
or a river, you are more likely to see a curious little 
swimming bird called the little Grebe or dabchick. 
This is a brown bird with a thin neck and head, 
which paddles about among the reeds on the bank 
of a river, or swims along quietly, diving down 
every now and then to catch water-snails, fish, or 






weeds. You will have to move very quietly if you 
want to get near the dabchick, for it dives down 
at the least alarm and comes up a long way off, out 
of sight. 

If you have not seen any of these web-footed 
birds, nor even a wild duck yet every child knows 






the tame Duck which lives in our farmyards. Our 
ducks and drakes ^vere tamed long, long ago from 
wild ducks, and are still very like them. Let us see 
what we can learn about a duck. 

First I want you to look at her as she waddles 
across the yard. Her feet have a skin between the 
three front toes which joins them together. That is 



to say she is " web-footed." Now notice that, as she 
lifts her foot, the skin folds up like a fan, and when 
she puts her foot down, it spreads out again. When 
she reaches the pond, she glides into the water and 
begins to paddle, using one foot after the other, just 
as you do when you walk. In clear water you can 
see that as she puts her foot forward the skin shuts 
up, as it did when she walked, but when she puts 
it back and strikes the water, it opens and makes 
a paddle, and so she rows herself along. 

Her legs grow far back on her body, so that she 
can use them to twist and turn herself about, and 
she can tip her head and body down into the water 
to look for water-snails and tadpoles, while she 
paddles along with her tail up in the air. 

Next notice how light her body is. It floats quite 
on the top of the water. This is partly because she 
has a layer of light fat under her skin, and partly 
because she has a thick covering of down under her 
feathers. There is a great deal of air caught in this 
down, and this makes her light. 

Do you know why her feathers do not get wet 
and draggled in the water? The reason is very 
curious. Her outer feathers are all smeared with 
oil which she gets from a little pocket near hei 
tail. Look at her when she comes out of the 
water. She presses her beak against her tail and 
then draws the feathers through the beak. When 
she has oiled them in this way, they are water 
proof and keep the wet off her body. 

Next watch her as she feeds. She goes gobble, 
gobble through tlie mud, and often throws her 



"head up to swallow something she has found. Her 
beak is broad and flat. It is hooked at the tip, but 
higher up it is covered with a soft skin full of 
nerves. With this skin the duck feels what is in 
the mud as well as if she saw it. The tip and edges 
of the beak are very horny and sharp, and, both 

above and below, it is lined 
•with, thin strips of horn. 
When she closes her beak 
these strips fit into each 
other and make a strainer 
With her sharp beak she 
cuts the weeds or kills the 
snails. With the strainer 
she sifts the mud and 
keeps the food in her 
mouth, forcing out the 
water with her thick 
tongue. Geese, swans, and all wild ducks have 
feet and beaks much like our farmyard duck. 

You may have seen wild-ducks in the lakes or 
rivers. The drake is a very handsome bird. His 
head and neck are a dark shiny green. He has a 
white collar, and his breast is the colour of a 
chestnut. His wings and back are partly brown 
and partly green. The four middle feathers of his 
tail are a glossy black and curl up. The others 
are grey, edged with white. When the wild drake 
changes his coat in June he puts oif this beautiful 
plumage, and puts on a plain brown and grey suit- 
like the mother duck, till August. Then he begins 
to moult again, and in October is as gay as before. 


The cormorants and gulls have not beaks like the 
duck, for they do not grope in the mud. Their bills 
are sharp and strong for fishing, and their ^ngs 
long for flying. The little dabchick, on the contrary, 
has short wings, as he chiefly floats on the water. 
His beak is not very long, and it has no hook at the 
end. His feet are rather large, but the web is not 
wide as in ducks. 

There are a great many other web-footed birds. 
Try if you can find some. 

Examine a dead duck. Notice the webbed foot, the parts of 
the beak, the thick down, and the glossy oiled feathers not 
wetted in water. Draw the foot of any dead bird you can 
find. 



Almost every morning, when I yvsike, I hear a 
curious cry, " tek-tek-tek," in my garden, and I 
know that if I go out and look, I shall see the cat 
about somewhere. Sometimes many birds "will be 
making the same cry all together, and when the 
cat is on the lawn I have seen the swallows swoop 
down and peck her back, and then rise up again 
before she can turn round. 

For the birds know very well that the cat is 
their enemy, and scold at her when she conies near^ 
especially when they have young ones. 


I wonder if you have ever thought as you lie 
snugly in bed how many dangers there are for the 
little birds outside? The owl prowling along the 





hedge is on the look-out for sitting mothers and 
for young birds. The cat may climb the tree and 
put her sharp claws into the nest. Weasels and 
stoats are hunting about to catch any birds which 



are sleeping near the ground, or even in the trees, 
and snakes like eggs for their early breakfast as 
much as you or I do. 

The fox is a great enemy of the ground birds 
Partridges, pheasants, and grouse dread a fox at 
night, as the fowls and ducks do in the farmyard; 
while in the daytime the hawk is a terror to aU 
birds. The mother lark, on her nest, crouches down 
in the hope that the grass may hide her. The 
father lark, as he soars, rises or falls to try to 
escape. Other little song-birds flutter away to 
the bushes; partridges run to cover, and pigeons 
hide in the wood w^hen a hawk is near. 

All these are the birds' natural enemies; for of 
course animals must kill their food, and we too 
kill birds to eat. But we need not destroy their 
nests nor take their eggs for show, nor catch them, 
as many do, in nets to put them in cages, or to use 
their feathers for ornaments. 

Many birds, which were quite common thirty 
years ago, are rare now because such a number of 
eggs and birds have been taken. So laws have 
been made to protect the little song-birds, birds 
of prey, and sea-birds, as well as partridges and 
pheasants. 

All over England people are now forbidden to 
shoot or snare any wild hh^ds except on their own 
land, or to take their eggs, between the 15th of 
-March and the 1st of August. This leaves the birds 
time to bring up their little ones. And there is a 
special list of birds which people may not disturb, 
even in their own garden, during this "close time." 


I am sure you will be glad to know that the 
lark is one of these birds. 

Then there are some parts of England where 
people are not allowed to take the eggs of wild 
birds at any time. These are places, such as some 
of the Broads in Norfolk, and the sea-shore at 
Slapton Lee in Devonshire, where many birds 
breed. 

You cannot know all these places, but there is 
one very safe rule. Do not take any eggs, nor kill 
any birds ; then you are sure not to do "wrong. 

Watch the birds in the garden, and the fields, 
and the woods. Learn to know where they build 
their nests round your house, and take care they 
are not disturbed. When you wake up in the 
morning listen to their songs. You will soon know 
them, and know too when they are happy, or when 
something is frightening them. Then notice what 
good work they do, eating the slugs and snails, the 
wire-worms and grubs. 

You must drive them away when you see them 
eating your seeds, or your young buds, or the 
sprouting corn. But you can feed them in winter 
to make them your friends, and you will be sur- 
prised how much you can learn about their ways. 




These lessons are intended to be read after the teacher 
has given one or more lectures on the subject. It is not 
necessary to read the book straight through. Different lessons 
are suited for different seasons, and in some cases one lesson 
may serve for a month's work ; the children being encouraged 
to observe and collect. 


I "WONDER if you have ever stopped to think 
how usefvil trees are in the ?\;\^orld. We saw in 
Book III. that plants make the air i^iire for ns to 
breathe. Trees, with their hundreds of leaves, do 
a lar^e part of this work, and they do a great 
deal besides. 

Let us imagine a little tree growing up in the 
wood, or in the field. It may perhaps be eaten 
away by rabbits or squirrels before it is a year 
old. If so, it has been useful as food. But if it 
grows up, it begins even the first year to drop 
some leaves in the autumn, and these help to 
make leyf-mould, and so give food for other 
plants. 

So it goes on each year, making leaves, puri- 
fying the air, and producing leaf-mould. But very 
soon insects begin to make their home in the young 
sapling, for every kind of tree has some insects 

living on it. A moth conies and lays her eggi^ 
under the leaves, and the caterpillars feed on theno 
when they are hatched. A beetle conies and lays 
her eggs in the bark, and the grub feeds there, 
till it turns into a beetle, or til^ the woodpecker or 
the nuthatch find and eat it. 

In this way every tree is quite a little colony 
of living creatures. Then the birds come and sleep 
in its boughs at night and build their nests there 
in the spring. If the trees are elms the rooks 
often choose them for their rookery. If they are 
firs in a wood the woodpigeon ^vill sleep there, or 
pheasants and hawks perch on their branches, 
^lile the thrush and the blackbird spend the night 
in laurels, or hollies and other evergreen trees. 

When the tree has grown big it bears flowers 
and fruits. These fruits, jr the seeds in them, 
serve as food for many creatures. The birds feed 
on the berries, the nuts, and the acorns. The 
squirrel makes its home in the beech-trees, and 
eats all kinds of nuts it can find. The field-mouse, 
hedgehog, and pig make good meals off the beech- 
nuts and acorns on the ground, while we eat the 
fruit of the sweet chestnut and the walnut tree, the 
apples, pears and cherries from the orchard. 

How useful the trees are to man ! They help 
to keep the ground moist and fresh. There is 
always more rain in a country where there are 
trees, and the ground Avould grow parched and 
dry, if it were not for their pleasant shade. How 
the cattle gather under them, when the sun is 
bright, and stand chewing the cud so peacefully 



out of the glare and heat ! And how glad you are 
on your way to school, if you can walk through 
a shady lane instead of along the high road. 
Then they are so beautiful in the spring ; when 
the fresh green leases burst out they make us 
glad to think that every year tree-life begins 
again. 

On the other hand, some trees are so old, 
several hundreds of years, that they remind us 
of times long gone by, and make us love our 
country when we think Mdiat a long history 
those trees could tell. 

But even trees must die at last, and, if they 
are to be of use to us we must cut them down 
before they decay. Then, after the tree is dead, 
how useful it is ! 

Let us just go through one day of your life, 
and see how much of a tree you use. You get 
up in the morning, and the first thing to be 
done is to light a fire with wood. You sit on a 
chair : that is made of wood. You open the door : 
that is of ^'ood too. You take up your umbrella 
when you start for school : the handle was once 
the bough of a tree. You go upstairs to fetch 
your bag : the stairs are made out of planks. 
You set off on your way, and have to cross a 
brook : the bridge is made of wood. You are 
careful to shut the gate of the field : that, too, 
is made of a tree, and so is the paling round the 
school. 

You take your place in class. Your feet rest 
on deal planks which come from the fir-tree. 




You sit on a ^vooden bench. Your slate has a 
wooden frame. Your pen has a wooden handle. 
The teacher puts up a wooden easel and a wooden 
blackboard upon it. She opens the ink-bottle to 
fill the inkstands, and the cork of the bottle comes 
from the bark of a tree, while the ink itself is 
made with acid which comes from a gall made 
by an insect on an oak-tree. 

Dinner-time comes. Surely, now, you will not 
want any wood. You fetch your basket with your 
dinner in it. That may be made of wood-chips or 
willow twigs, and the pastry which you eat is 
made of j)aste, which your mother rolled out on 
a wooden board with a wooden rolling-pin. 

As you come out from school you get a lift in 
a farm-cart, that too is made of wood, and so is 
the wheelbarrow you use, when you get home, 
for wheeling manure into the garden. You put 
your school things away in the old oak-chest in 
the corner, and when yovi go to bed after supper, 
you look up at the old beams across the ceiling 
and fall asleep dreaming of wood everywhere. 

You could add many more things that I have 
forgotten ; and even no^\' we have not reckoned 
up the gums, the turpentine, the oils, the tannin, 
and the many sweet scents which we get from 
trees. Nor have we spoken of boats, and railway 
carriages, nor of the beautiful wood-carvings in 
our churches and other public buildings. Surely 
the world would get on very badly without trees ! 

Name any things made of wood besides those given in the 
/esson. 









We saw in Book III. that some plants live much 
longer than others. Some live for one year only, 
make their seeds and die. These we call arinuals. 
Others live two years. They grow their roots and 
leaves one year, and flower and make their seeds 
the next year. These we call biennials, because bi 
means two. Others live for many years, and are 
called 23e?^ennm/s. Trees are perennials, for they 
live for very many years. There are some oak 
trees more than a thousand years old. 

Yet all these old trees began their lives as little 
seedlings, like the bean you grew on the top of 
the earth in the flower-pot. How, then, have 
they managed to live so long > We shall learn 
this best by looking at a young seedling. 

If you poke about in a wood, you will easily 
find some small plant, either of oak, or beech, or 
hazel, which has grown up from a nut, or an 
acorn trodden into the ground. I am going to 
take an oak tree, because I have one close to my 
door and can give you a picture of it. If you 
get an acorn and stick it in the neck of a bottle 
the same way up as it sits in its cup, and keep 
the bottle full of water, you can grow^ a small oak 
for yourself, and see if yours is like mine. 

First the acorn puts out some roots downwards. 
Then the husk splits, and you can see the two thick 
seed-leaves open, with the growing tip between 



them. This tip now grows steadily upwards and 
Koon puts forth leaves. There may be one, or 

even two, one above the 
other, on the sides of the 
stem. But there will cer- 
tainly be two or three close 
together at the top of the little tree 
by the time autumn comes. At 
the foot of each leaf, nestling up 
to the stem, will be a little bud, and 
at the end of the stem will be a 
stout bud, bigger than all the rest. 

The difference between the oak- 
plant and the bean which we grew in 
Book III. is that the stem is woody.' 
If you get another oak-plant of the 
same age from the wood, and cut off 
its head this is what you will see 
(Fig. 1, p. 13). In the middle there is 
a round white patch, p. This is 
the pith, or soft part, which you 
scoop out of the branch of an 
elder-tree when you make a 
popgun. Next conies a ring of 
soft whitish wood, iv. Outside 
this again is the harl:, b. 

Now you know that water, 
with earthy matter in it, has 
to rise up from the roots and 
go to the leaves, to be made 
into food. It travels up through this ring of living 
wood, and when it comes back it makes new wood 






and new bark just where the wood and the bark 
meet. You know how easy it is to peel the bark 
off wood. That is because the tender new part 
is between them, and gives way easily. 

But as soon as autumn comes, the roots leave 
off taking in water ; and the crude s«p, as it is 


called, does not rise up any more. The stalks of 
the leaves dry up where they join the stem, and 
they fall off. The tree rests for the winter. 

Now watch your little plant next spring. You 
will see the big bud at the tip, and often two 
other buds close to it, begin to grow into branches 
and have leaves of their own. But in a very young 
tree the smaller ones usually die away and the 
trunk grows straight up. However, you can always 
tell where the new growth began in the spring, 
because there is a ring (r, p. 12) left by the scales of 
the buds. The wood of the new piece will be just 




like the wood of the lower piece was last year. 
But that lower piece "will be growing some fresh 
wood and getting bigger (Fig. 2, p. 13). The sap 
will go up and down as before, and a new ring of 
wood (to i2) ^11 form outside the old wood, and a 
v^ery thin new ring of bark inside the old bark. 
So at the end of the second year, while the ne^v 
piece will have only one ring of wood, the old 
piece below the scales will have two rings {iv and 
w2), with a mark between the rings, showing 
where the tree rested in the winter. 

All this is rather difficult to see in such small 
trees, and you must look at the diagrams. But 
if you go into the wood when they are cutting 
down timber, you "will see the rings much more 
distinctly in the older trees, and you will like to 
look at the trunks, and try to make out how old 
the trees are. You cannot be quite sure that you 
count all the years, because as the new wood grows, 
the old is squeezed together, and makes a very hard 
wood, called " heart- wood," in the middle of the 
trunk. But you can be sure that the tree is not 
younger, and most likely much older, than the 
rings you can count. 

Now to come back to our question, how trees 
live to be so old. Year after year they make a 
new ring of wood, narrower and narrower as they 
grow older. Through the younger rings the crude 
sap goes up to the leaves, and the food-sap conies 
down to feed the parts of the tree. Buds tire 
formed every spring on the stems at the foot of 
each leaf, and these buds are Kke new plants. 





They start with fresh strength, making new food 
for the tree, which carries them up on its trunk 
and branches into the Hglit and air. 

The heart-wood of the tree is really dead, and 
sometimes decays away while the outer part of 
the tree is still flourishing. But many of the 
rings of wood far inside the trunk still want 
food, and if you look at a felled tree you can see 
how they get it. Besides the rings, you will see 
some lines (in), like the spokes of a wheel, starting 
from the centre of the trunk and spreading out 
to the bark. These lines are made of pith, like 
that "\ve saw in the middle of the young seedling 
oak. Until they are squeezed away the sap passes 
along them all through the tree. 

There are some trees, such as the palms, which 
you see in hot-houses, which do not grow in rings. 
But these are not English, and do not concern us 
here. 

Get several pieces of tree-branches and tr-y to see the bark, 
the inner bark, the rings of wood and the heart-wood — Lilac, 
Lime, and Elder show the parts well. Oak and Pine show 
heart-wood best. 



When a young tree has made plenty of wood and 
branches, it begins to use some of its buds for 
making flowers. These buds groTV in the same 
places as leaf -buds. In some trees they grow where 
the leaf joins the stem. In others they grow at 
the tips of the twigs. They are generally rounder 
and less pointed than the leaf-buds. 

The flowers of the oak are very small, so you 
had better look out for a horse-chestnut tree and 
gather a bough for this lesson. You will find bvids 
on a horse-chestnut tree almost any time in the 
year, except when it is in full leaf, and then they 
will be very small. 

The best time to look is just at the end of the 
winter, "when the tree is bare. First notice the 
smaller buds, which grow two and two opposite 
each other along the twig. You will see belo^w each 
bud a scar marking the place on which the leaf 
grew last year. This scar is shaped like a horseshoe, 
and has several black spots on it arranged like the 
nails. These spots show where the bundles of tubes 
were, which carried the sap into the leaf. 

Now pick one of the buds to pieces. They are 
^mall, and you will not find it very easy, but you 
can take off the brown sticky scales, and you will 
find inside, first some soft gummy do\\^i, and then 
bhe young green leaves, tightly folded togetheri 
with, a green growing tip between them. 




So if you had left that bud, and it could got food 
enough, it would have grown into a small branch in 
the spring, with leaves on it. But it is very seldom 
that all the buds on a branch grow. The stronger 
ones take the food, and 
the weaker ones either 
die or wait till next year. 

Now look at the buds 
on the tips of the 
branches. They are very |^ 
much larger than those 
growing on the sides, and 
you can examine them 
easily. When you have 
taken away from twelve 
to seventeen sticky scales, 
you will come to the same 3-. 
kind of soft Avliite gummy i- - 
down which you found 
in the leaf-buds, making 
a warm bed for the 
tender growing parts in- 
side. 

But this bud is not 
all leaves like the smaller 
one. It has four small 
bright green leaves, and wrapped up inside them 
is a tiny spike covered with little knobs (f). 

You cannot examine the flowers on this spike 
without a microscope. But if you wait and watch 
till May, you will see others like it gradually open- 
ing out into a lovely branch of flowers, and I think 




you will like them all the better for knowing how 
the tree prepared them last autumn, when it was 
covered with leaves, and wrapped them up warm 
all the winter in sticky buds. 

And while you are waiting for the flowers, look 
at the tree itself. The trunk is smooth and round 
The branches begin to grow out of it about ten feel 
from the ground. They grow two and two opposite 
to each other like the leaves, except where a bud 
has failed. The lower branches, which of course 
are the oldest, stretch out farthest, so that the tree 
rounds off very gracefully up to the top. 

Then, as April comes, the brown scales fall from 
the leaf-buds, and the tree is covered with bright 
green downy leaves. They are each cut into seven 
leaflets, which hang down from the tip of the leaf- 
stalk like a half-opened umbrella. Little by little, as 
they grow stronger, they rise up into a broad leaf 
with seven fingers. It is while they are doing this 
that the flower-buds throw off their scales, the four 
green leaves open out, and the flower spike begins 
to hang out its snow-white flowers, streaked with 
pink and yellow (see p. 10). 

The flowers nearest to the branch open first and 
grow strong. They are perfect flowers, with five 
green sepals and five beautiful crimped petals, and 
have both stamens and seed-box inside. These will 
^orm the chestnuts which ripen in the autumn. The 
flowers nearer to the tip of the spike have only 
stamens inside the petals. They wither away as 
soon as they have shed their pollen-dust. 

If you can get an old flower spike when the 



flowers are withered, and c at the seed-box of a flower 
across, you will see that it has three divisions with 
two little seeds in each. But when you pick up the 
prickly fruit in the autumn, though it burst into 
three parts, there are generally only two horse- 
chestnuts inside (see p. 10), with another very tiny 
One. The two big seeds have starved out the other 
four little ones and grown big and strong. If the 
chestnuts are brown and shiny, they are ripe, and 
will grow if you sow them. 

Though the horse-chestnut is very beautiful in 
the summer, its leaves turn yellow very early 
and fall in August, and then you can see tlie buds 
already formed for next year. All boys know 
that horse-chestnuts are bitter and not good 
eating. The sweet chestnuts, which we roast, come 
from quite a different tree, and are not seeds, 
but fruits. 

Bring a branch of Ilorse-chestniit and examine the buds. 
Find a flower spilce in May ; look at the ovary in June, and 
the fruit in September. 


The horse-chestnut is the only big English tree 
which has large flower-spikes. There are many 
pretty flowering shrubs in the hedge, such as the 
Blackthorn, the May, and the Guelder rose. But 
all the big trees have tiny flowers As some of 
these trees flower before they open their ieo^ves, 



you can see their blossoms. So we will look at a 
few. 

If you live where there are many bees, and 
where there are any trees of the conmion Sallow 
Willow growing in the hedges, or the woods, go out 
some sunny day in March, and lie down under one 
of the trees and listen. 

Before long you will hear a buzzing, which will 
go on as long as the sun is bright. For the bees 
have wakened from their long winter sleep, and 
want honey and pollen to make bee-bread. There 
are very few flowers open in March and, as the 
sweet smell of honey comes from the blossoms of 
the willow, the bees are quick to find them out. 

Perhaps you will ask me how you are to know 
a Sallow^ Willow, You know it quite well, though 
you may not know the name. It is a big shrubby 
tree, with a purple-brown stem, w^hich grows in 
the hedges and woods, and from which people 
cut branches before Palm Sunday, and call them 
palms. 

All up the twigs you will see in March and 
April round soft bodies about as big as thimbles 
growing now on one side now on the other. It is 
into these that the bees are poking their heads. 
You remember the catkins which we saw on the 
nut-trees in Book I. These soft bodies clinging 
close to the willow stems are also catkins. In 
willows they stand up, instead of hanging down as 
they do on the nut-trees, and on the sallow willow 
tjiey hug the stem. 

But now I want yoi: to look a little further. 






rhe tree under which you sit may ha\e broad 
yellow catkins (2, plate, p. 20), and if you gathei 
a branch and look closely at it, you will see 
the yellow anthers standing out all rooind the 
catkin. Children call these "golden palms." But 
you may find, not so very far away, another of 
the same kind of tree, on which the catkins 
are soft and grey 
(1, plate, p. 20). 
They are much 
longer and nar- 
rower than the 
golden catkins. 
Children call them 

' silver pussy - 
palms." 

Gather a branch 
from each of these 
trees and take 
them to school. 
When you pick 
them to pieces, 
you will find that each catkin is ma^do up of a 
number of tiny flowers. In the golden catkins 
each flower is only a little scaly leaf (l, 2) 
with two stamens growing on it. No ! I forgot. 
There is something else, for at the bottom of each 
scaly leaf is a small cup (fl), holding a drop of 
honey. So you see there are i)lenty of drops of 

honey in a catkin. 

Then if you pick the silver-pussy-palm to pieces, 
you will find the same honey cup («) at the 




bottom of the scale, but instead of stamens, there 
is a Kttle seed-box or ovary (o) shaped hke a bottle, 
with a crumpled stigma (s). 

^ Now you see the use of the honey. As the dust- 
bags and the seed-boxes are on different trees, the 
flowers have to tempt the bees to carry the pollen. 
It is wise to plant willows near where bees are 
kept, for they get plenty of honey from them in 
the spring. The Osier willow, which grows in the 
marshes, and is used for making baskets, is in 
bloom at the same time as the sallow. But the 
common English willow which grows into a large 
tree, and the Crack willow whose branches break 
off so easily when you bend them, bloom later, 
when their narrow pointed leaves are out. They 
all bloom early, however, and when the tiny seeds 
covered Tvith down are blown out of the catkins 
many a little bird uses them to line its nest. 

Another tree, which blooms before its leaves 
come, is the English poplar, which groTvs by the 
streams, or in the woods. Poplars have their two 
kinds of flowers on different trees, like the ^villows. 
But they have no honey, and no bees come near 
them. I think that if you have any poplars in your 
woods and watch them, you will guess how they 
manage. For when the wild March winds are 
blowing, the long hanging catkins swing to and 
fro, and the dry pollen-dust is blown through the 
lair from tree to tree. 

I wonder if you know which tree I mean by the 
English poplar? Not those tall stiff trees which 
point straight up to the sky. Those come from 



TREES WITH CATKIN FLOWERS. 



25 



Italy and are called Lombardy poplars. The 
English poplars are graceful trees with very broad 



leaves hanging on long stalks. The white poplar 
has soft white hairs under its leaves, and the leaves 
of the aspon or trembling poplar are silky under- 
neath. The leaves turn on their long stalks when 

 

the wind blows and look very pretty as they show 
their white sides. 

One other tree you must look for, which has it? 
stamens in long loose catkins and its ovary in a 
little bud with scales round it. This is our friend 
the oak after it has grown into a large tree. The 
oak flowers in the spring, just as the leaves are 
coming out. You will easily see the catkins waving 
in the wind, but the flowers which will grow into 
acorns are very small and grow singly, or in pairs, 
between the leaf -stalk and the stem. Each one has 
a number of small scales round it, which by-and-by 
will harden into the cup of the acorn. 

But the oak is such a i important tree that we 
must talk of it in a separate lesson. 

Bring willow branches in March with stamen-catkins, and 
others with seed-forming catkins. Look for the honey cup 
Bring leaves and flowers of the English poplai*. 


I WONDER if you have any woods near you with 
oak trees growing close together, or mixed with 
beech and ash trees. This is the way they are 
grown, when they are to be cut into long planks, 
or poles, and most likely there will be some wood, 
where you can stop and look at them on your way 
home from school. 

They will have straight, smooth trunks; some 
twenty, some thirty, some perhaps fifty feet liigh, 
before the branches spread out above. Yet you 



know that your seedling oak has buds, first on one 
side, then on the other, all up the stem. Ho"w is it 
that these buds have not groTVTi into branches? 

The reason is that in a thick w'ood, where the 
trees crowd each other, every tree wants to raise 
its head up to the light. So- in tae spring when the 
leaves and buds open out at the top of the little 
tree, and the crude sap rises up to them from the 
roots, the tree wants so much to use for growing 
up higher that only a small quantity goes down 
again to make new wood. So the buds lower down 
do not get enough food to grow, and they either 
die or become dormant. That is, they remain 
waiting for another opportunity, which often never 
comes. For this reason oaks in a wood grow 
taller and taller with only a crown of branches 
and leaves near the top. 

But if you can find an old oak out in the open 
field, or at the edge of the wood, ^vhere it has 
plenty of room, you will see that it has grown 
differently. The trunk is much larger, and the 
branches grow out lower down. In many big oaks 
a man can reach the lower boughs as he stands 
under it.' The branches are very heavy and stretch 
out widely all round, so that an old oak tree covers 
a great deal of space in open ground. If the trunk 
were not very strong it could not bear the weight 
of such huge branches. But it is very broad at the 
bottom and then curves in and rises like a stout 
pillar till it becomes broad again where the 
branches divide away from it. 

When Smeaton, the great engineer, built the 


Eddystone lighthouse, he shaped it like the trunk 
of an oak, and the lighthouse stood firm against 
wind and waves for more than a hundred years. 

The oak has a very thick strong root from which 
long ropy roots run out all round the tree. I will 
tell you a way by Tv^hich you may know how far the 
roots of a tree spread underground. Look at the 
branches and see how far they stretch out from 
the trunk, for the roots will reach just as far 
underground as the branches do above ground. 

The reason of this is very interesting. You will 
remember that the tips of the roots are the mouths 
of a plant. They drink in the Tvater. Now when it 
rains, the raindrops trickle from leaf to leaf till 
they come to the tips of the branches, and then they 
drip down and sink into the ground. The roots 
would get very little rain-water if they stopped 
under the tree where you and I stand to keep out 
of the rain. But as the tree grows, the roots find 
their way farther and farther out, till they reach 
the place where the drip will be. 

You Avill find it useful to know this in gardening 
and farming, for tree roots are often very trouble- 
some. 

When you have looked at the rugged bark of 
the old oak, which is so useful for tanning leather, 
look up at the branches. They twist and turn in all 
directions, and there is a very thick joint wherever 
a new branch starts. 

You can see the reason of this, if you look at 
your young tree (p. 12), or at a t^vig of the old tree. 
There is not one bud at the tip of the twigs as there 





was in the horse-c4iestniit, but two, three, or some- 
times more. All these buds crowd each other, and 
vhe middle one generally dies. The others go off 
different ways, and so make what carpenters call 
" knee-joints." These were used for shipbuilding in 
olden days, because they are very strong. But now 
that ships are made of iron, knee-timber is not so 
much wanted, 
and straight 
planks and poles 



are more valu- 
able. So it is 
best now to plant 
oaks in woods, 
where their stems 
grow straight 
and smooth. 

Oak timber has 
always been valu- 
able. The beams 
of Westminster 
Hall, which was 
built about nine 
hundred years ago, were made of Durmast Oak, and 
were only recently i*epaired. Man}' country cottages 
have old chests and carved chairs in them quite 
as old as this. The heartwood of the oak is very 
firm and strong, and this is why the old song says : 

"Heaits of Oak are our ships, 
Hearts of Oak are oui- men." 

You can see the trunk and V)ranches of the oak 

best in winter. Then when April is nearly over, a 


pretty crfmson colour comes on all the buds, the 
leaves open out, and the loose catkins hang down 
between them, while the tiny acorn flowers nestle 
between the leaf -stalk and the stem. 

When the leaves are fully out, and the acorns 
are beginning to form, try if you can find the two 
kinds of English oak. Their leaves are much the 
same shape, long and cut into deep divisions. But 
the leaves of the Common Oak (1, p. 30) have very 
short leaf -stalks, they almost touch the stem, while 
the acorns stand on long stalks. In the other tree 
called the Durmast Oak the leaves usually have 
longer stalks, and the acorns have none. 

The evergreen oak, which is often grown in 
gardens, was brought from Italy. Its leaves are 
something like the leaves of the holly, so it is called 
the holm oak or holly oak. 

Get a branch of oak and notice the crowded buds. Get a 
log of oak and notice the dark heartwood and the rings round 
it. Also the rugged bark. Try to find the two kinds of English 
oak. Notice the scales grown together in the acoi-n cup. 



The oak feeds more creatures than any other 
English tree. Not only do the pigs, the hedgehogs, 
the squirrels, and the field-mice feed on the acorns, 
but more than fifty kinds of insects get their food 
from some part of the tree. 

Many of these are too small for you to find, but 
you will enjoy looking out for others. If you 







examine an oak-tree in May, you will most likely 
Rnd some of its leaves rolled up, either from the 
tip towards the stalk, or from side to side. Undo 
this roll and you will find a caterpillar inside, or 
perhaps a chrysalis. There are two kinds of 
caterpillars which roll up oak leaves. One, which 
is called simply the Oak-moth caterpillar, is large. 
It rolls up the leaf rather untidily, and spins a 
cocoon round itself 
inside, in the shape 
of a Httle boat. The 
moth when it comes 
out has bright green 
wings with two white 
bands on them. 

The other cater- 
pillar, which you are 
almost sure to find, 

does its work more tidily. It makes a very neat 
roll, and fastens it together with fine threads. 
Then it feeds on the inner rolls till it goes to sleep, 
and turns into a moth. If you shake an oak-tree in 
June numbers of these little moths will often fly 
out. They are called the Green Oak-moth, though 
their hind wings are browoi. They are much 
smaller than the oak-moth, whose caterpillar spins 
the boat cocoon. 

Another insect which you may find, is the grub 
of the great Stag Beetle. For this you will have to 
cut into the trunks of old trees, where the big grub 
hollows out a bed for itself under the bark. It 
stays there and feeds on the wood of the tree for 



three or four years, till it turns into the beetle. 
You remember that the woodpecker taps with his 
beak as he climbs the trees. It is grubs like these 
that he is trying to find. 

But the most curious homes on an oak-tree are 
the galls made by mother insects, which lay their 
eggs on some part of the tree. Every country child 




knows the red -brown rosy -cheeked oak-apple, 
which grows on the tips of the oak-twigs, and 
which many people mistake for fruit. Boys used 
to stick these in their hats on the twenty-ninth 
of May, because Charles the Second, who hid from 
his enemies in an oak-tree, came back to his throne 
on that day. 

Instead of sticking it into your caps, cut the 


oak-apple across ^vith a sharp knife. You will 
find that it is soft and spongy, and is divided into 
a number of small cells. In each of these cells 
there will be either a grub, or a cocoon, or a perfect 
fly ready to come out. Or perhaps the home may 
be empty, all the inmates having flown away. 

Let us see how this oak-apple came to be there. 
Early in the spring a small wasp-fly, called a 
Cynips, settled on the twig, and pierced the bark 
^vith a sharp-pointed tube. She carries this tube 
coiled up at the end of her body, till she wants to 
use it. Then she darts it out into the twig and 
squeezes some juice into the hole, together with 
several eggs. 

In a very short time a swelling rises up, and the 
spongy oak-aj)ple grows round the eggs, each one 
being in a cell by itself. So when the grubs are 
hatched they find plenty of soft food to eat, till 
they spin their cocoons. 

Another of these flies lays its eggs on the loose 
catkins. You may easily find them hanging like 
little brown currants on the stalk (3, p. 39), after the 
flowers have withered. For though the stalk falls 
off as a rule, yet when these galls ai-e on it, it 
remains hanging till the fly comes out. 

These "currant galls" have each one grub in 
them, and so too have the galls which you will 
find under the leaves. There are at least two 
kinds of leaf -galls. One is bright red, and is called a 
" cherry gall." The other is very small, pink, hairy, 
and flat. There are a great many of these under 
each leaf, and they are called "oak-spangles" (2, p. 39), 



The grub remains in these galls after the leaves 
have fallen, so you will be able to find them. 

The next gall (1, p. 39) I am sure you will thinV 
is a bud. It is called the " artichoke gall," and really 
begins in the oak-bud, in which the fly lays her eggs 
early in the spring. Then instead of growing into 
a twig with green leaves, the bud covers itself with 
scales, and a number of grubs are hatched inside. 

Last of all there are the big brown galls, specially 
called " oak-galls " (4, p. 39). They grow half-way 
down the twigs, and remain hanging on the tree all 
the winter, after the flies have flo^vn out. This gall 
was first seen in England about sixty years ago, in 
1840. It has spread very fast, and is hurtful to 
the trees, for it sucks out a great deal of sap. It 
is very like the galls ^vhich we get from Asia, in 
order to use the acid in them for making ink. 

Many other trees have galls on them besides 
the oak, and I advise you when you find a curious 
lump or a strange-shaped bud, unlike anything you 
expect to find on a tree, to cut it open and see if 
there is a grub inside. 

Find as many different kinds of oak-gall as you can. Find 
the leaf-rolling caterpillar's, and try to find the grub of the 
stag-beetle. 

 

As you go through the woods in spring, you 
should watch the trees when they break out into 
leaf One of the prettiest is the Beech Tree (1, plate, 
p. 36). You may know it in the middle of winter by 





its olive-grey bark, its tall, smooth trunk with a 
broad crown of branches on the top, and its brown 



sharp-pointed buds which grow one after the other, 
now on one side, now on the other of the stem. 
How different thev are from the thick buds of the 




horse-chestnut, and yet they keep the Kttle leaves 
inside quite as safe and warm. 

Pick one of them to pieces in the early spring, 
just before they burst open (see p. 41). You will find, 
first, a number of shiny brown scales folded tight one 
over the other. Then inside these, some transparent 
scales as soft as silk, wrapping round the delicate 
tiny leaves which are folded up like a fan, and have 
a fringe of silvery hairs on them. Lastly, in the 
middle, the tender growing tip lies safely hidden. 

A few days later these bright green leaves will 
open, and the scales hang loosely below them, 
while the silken fringe now shows as hairs 
under the leaves. Each leaf is oval and notched 
at the edge, and the twigs on which they grow 
drooj) at first, and then slowly raise themselves. 
By the time the leaves are full grown the brown 
clusters of flowers are hanging among them. 

Those with the stamens in them are soft and 
silky, and hang on long, thin stalks ; but those 
with the seed-boxes, stand up on short stalks near 
the end of the twigs. There are two or three of 
them on each stalk, with their sticky horns stand- 
ing up, and a number of prickly scales round them. 

These scales are like those we saw round the 
acorn. They grow into a hard husk covered with 
prickles, and by-and-by quite shut in the two or 
three little nuts. But when autumn comes, the 
"beech-mast" (2, p. 36), as it is called, falls dowTi, 
the husk bursts open into four pieces, and then 
you see inside the three-cornered nuts with the 
withered horns still on the top. 





Now, why do you think these scales grow into 
such a hard husk and shut in the fruit, and why 
do they burst in the autumn? Because the squir- 
rels and field-mice feed chiefly on beech-nuts, and 
if there were no husk to pro- 
tect the nuts while they are 
green, they would be eaten 
before they were ripe. But 
now the husk falls and bursts, 
just when they are ready to 
grow. The tree can spare a 
good many to be eaten, if the 
squirrels and other animals 
tread a few^ into the ground or 
bury them so that they grow. 
Beech trees spring up so well 
from seed that there is no 
need to plant them. But if 
you want to keep a beech 
wood healthy and cut it 
down for timber you must 
take care of it. The trees live 
for more than two hundred 
years, though they are ready 
to be cut down when they are 
about ninety years old. 

Good foresters cut down 
one block at a time, so that there is always some 
part of the wood getting ready for timber. In 
the part they are going to cut, they first clear 
away the other kinds of trees and the young 
stunted beeches, so as to let in the light and air. 





Then they wait for a year or two, till there 
comes a season when the beech-mast is good, and 
the seeds are strong and will grow well. This 
happens generally about every three or four 
years. Then they begin to thin out the trees for 
timber, and so to leave room for young seedlings to 
grow up and begin a new crop. 

After this they go on cutting down some every 
year, and clear that piece of the wood in about ten 
years or more. By that time the new beech-trees 
have a good crown of branches and leaves on the 
top and go on and grow, while the forester begins 
to cut down another part of the wood. 

If the beech-tree is pretty in spring, it is still 
more lovely in the autumn, when its leaves turn a 
bright red, and by-and-by fall and make a lovely 
carpet of leaves in the wood. The young beech- 
trees keep their dead leaves on all through the 
winter, and so do beech-hedges, which are kept cut 
and not allowed to grow into trees. 

There is another tree you know well, which 
shuts up its fruit in a husk made of prickly scales. 
This is the sweet or Spanish chestnut (3, p. 36), 
which the Romans brought to our country, and 
which now grows in the woods, or is often planted 
in the avenues leading to big houses. It opens its 
leaves later than the beech, and does not bloom 
till July. Still by October the nuts are ripe, and 
the husks burst open on the ground. And when 
you pick up the nuts to take them home to roast, 
you may notice the dry remains of the flower 
making » kind of bristling fringe on their points 




(4, p. 36). Quite late in the autumn the chestnut is 
a lovely tree. Its long narrow leaves, cut in sharp 
points at the edge turn a beautiful golden brown 
and hang on a long time. 

Many beams of old houses are made of chestnut, 
and the trunks of the young trees are made into 
hop-poles. Beech-wood is used very largely for 
making chairs. 

The Birch and the Alder are both trees with 
catkins and hard-shelled fruits like the beech and 
the oak. They flower in the early spring before 
the leaves are fully out. The alder grows near 
streams or on wet ground. The birch you will find 
in the woods, and know it by its slender, graceful 
trunk, marked with brown, yellow and silvery 
streaks, its purple-brown twigs, and its dark green 
leaves — these smell very strong after rain, because 
the resin oozes from them. Some diseased birches 
have large tufts of twigs growing on the upper 
branches, looking like crows' nests. 

Bring, in spring, a beech branch with its buds. Bring, in 
autumn, beech-nuts and chestnuts in their husks. Compare a 
chestnut, which is a fruit, with a horse chestnut, which is a 
seed. Find Birch and Alder fruits. 

 
Pines, firs, and larches grow in almost all parts oi 
England. They are very interesting and useful 
trees. They all form their seeds in woody cones, 
and their leaves are very narrow or needle-shapedj 
quite unlike the leaves of most other trees. 





A large part of the timber we use comes from 
pines and firs, grown in Norway and other countries. 
It is called pine-wood and deal. No doubt you 
have noticed the small round jjieces called " knots " 
in deal, and have poked them out, leaving a hole. 
These are places where branches grew and broke 
off, and then the trunk closed round them ; they 
are common in deal and pinewood. The sap in 
these trees is very resinous and they are tapped 
for turpentine. If you walk in a pine wood, or 
crush the leaves of a pine or fir, you will notice 
the strong scent of this resinous juice. 

Every country child has picked up fir cones, and 
you may easily find three different kinds, those 
belonging to the Scotch pine, the Spruce fir, and the 
Larch. Of these three, only the Scotch pine is a 
native of Great Britain, the other two have been 
brought from abroad. 

There were once dense forests of Scotch pine in 
England, but these have been cut down long ago, 
and the pine woods we have now, have grown up 
fron\ the seeds of trees brought from the great 
forests in Scotland, Norway, and France. It is a tall 
tree with spreading branches and a trunk covered 
with a red or brown scaly bark. Perhaps you know 
it as Scotch fir, for people confuse these two names, 
and call the same tree " j)ine " or " fir," though you 
may know the difference if you look at the cones. 

The dark-green leaves of the Scotch pine are 
very narrow, and about two inches long (see col- 
oured plate). They grow hco together in a sheath 
of brown scales. Its cones have no stalks, and 



 

they bulge out at the bottom, and taper away to a 
blunt point at the vipper end. They are made of a 
number of thick woody scales which look as if they 
were folded back at the top, making a solid thick 
knob with a brown scaly spot where the tip ends 
{see p. 45). These scales fit over each other so 
tightly that, before the cone is ripe, not even a 
drop of rain can get in, and they take two or three 
years to ripen. Sometimes they hang all the time 
on the tree. Sometimes they fall off earlier. As 
they ripen, the woody scales bend outwards and 
you can see two thin, transparent scales inside 
each, which look like the wings of a fly. They 
stand upright against the woody scale. 

Shp a knife carefully down under these, right 
to the bottom and pull them out. You will find 
a seed at the end of each, if you have not broken 
the tender transparent membrane. 

For these are "winged seeds, which have no 
seed-box over them, but grow naked inside the 
woody scale. After a time they fall out and are 
blown away by the wind. If you get a cone that 
is too old they will be gone. 

kW trees with cones have these winged seeds, 
and the cones of true pines are very much alike. 
You will easily know the Cluster pine, which has 
been brought from France and is found in many 
English woods among the Scotch j)ines. Its large 
cones grow in clusters roand the branches, four or 
sometimes eight together. They are larger and 
browner than the cones Of the Scotch pine and 
they often remain a great many years on the tree. 







The Spruce fir (2, p. 45) is very different from 
the Scotch pm^?. Its spreading branches grow 
nearly down to the ground, and its needle-shaped 
leaves, which are barely an inch long grow singly 
on the stem. Its cones are long and narrow and 
the scales are not so thick as in pines. But 
the chief difference is that the 
tips are not bent back 
into knobs, they are 
polluted and 
bend in a little, 
and by this 

you may 
know fir- 
cones from 
pine-cones. 
The firs have two 
seeds inside each scale 
like the pine, but these 
ripen in one year. The 
spruce fir came from Nor- 
LARCH TWIG BEARING CONES, way, aud uow grows all 

over England 
The Larch, which came from Switzerland, and 
the Cedar, which came from Lebanon in Palestine, 
both grow their seeds in cones, but they are rather 
different from the pines and firs. Their needle- 
leaves are very thin and grow in tuffs eighteen 
or twenty together in the same sheath of scales. 
The cones cf the cedar stand upright and are 
shaped like an egg, but the tree does not often 
bear cones in England. 






Larch cones are quite small, not more than an 
inch in length ; they grow along the twigs in a row. 
The woody scales do not fit very tightly together. 

I think you 
can find the cones 
of all these trees 
except the cedar. 
Of course you 
must look for fir 
and larch cones 
in the autumn, 
because they 
ripen each year, 
but pine-cones 
are on the trees 
all the year 
round. If you 
look at any of 
these trees in the 
spring and early 
summer, you will see their 
stamen - catkins hanging 
from the branches, and 
the yellow pollen blowing 
about in clouds so as to 
tall on the young cones. 

'Pines, firs, and cedars are evergreen trees. Their 
leaves remain on the tree three years or more; 
and as the branches are not of the same age, the 
leaves fall ofP in difPerent years, so that the trees 
are always green. But the larch sheds its leaves 
every year, and you may easily know it in the 




autumn by its bare drooping boughs covered with 
small brown cones. 

Pines and firs will flourish in very poor soil and 
their seeds grow up easily. If you are near a pine 
wood, or a wood of mixed trees with pines or firs 
in it, try and find a seedling tree. It is curious to 
look at, for it shoots up with a long, thin stalk, and 
carries up the seed-coat with it. When this coat 
falls off, you see five or six long seed-leaves under- 
neath, and in the middle of them a bud with the 
real pine or fir leaves. 

There is another tree which you know well, 
which has needle-shaped leaves. They grow all 
round the stem, two together in each sheath, but 
they are flattened down on two sides of the stem 
like the featherlets of a feather. This is the Yew 
tree (see p. 49), which you find so often in church- 
yards. It does not bear cones. Its naked seeds sit 
each one in a red juicy cup. The stamen-catkins 
are not on the same tree as the red cups, but if you 
search well you will find them on another yew tree. 

Bring in a bunch of the Scotch pine and the Spruce fir. 
Compare the cones of the two trees. Try to find a branch 
of Cedar, a branch of the Larch with cones, a seedling pine or 
fir, a branch of Yew with stamen flowers in March, and another 
with the red cup and naked seed in the autumn. 


There is no country in tlie world where the hedge- 
rows are so beautiful as in England. Whether we 
look at the neatly trimmed hedges round our 




gardens, or the roughly trimmed fences between 
the fields, they each have their beauty. Perhaps 
the most delightful of all, to look at, are the hedges 
which are not cut more than once in six years. 
But these are not good for the fields. 

Let us look first at the garden hedges. Have you 
ever thought that these are all made of young trees, 
clipped so that they remain only branches and 
leaves, and do not grow tall trunks? A box hedge 
is made of box trees closely cut. The holly hedge, 
whose prickly leaves are so useful in preventing the 
cattle from breaking through, would grow into tall 
trees if left alone. I know a garden in Devonshire 
where there are holly trees thirty feet high, growing 
here and there in a holly hedge. 

The hawthorn fence is the same as the May-tree 
which grows on the lawn. The beech hedge is made 
of beech trees, kept well clipped, and the dead leaves 
hang on it in winter, as they do on young beeches. 
The yew hedge is the same as the big yew tree in 
the churchyard, and it is well to be careful how you 
plant it anyAvhere near cattle and horses, for in a 
hard winter they sometimes eat the poisonous leaves 
and die. 

But each of these hedges is made of only one 
kind of tree. They are not nearly so interesting as 
the mixed hedges which grow between the fields. 
There we find blackberries and nuts and all sorts of 
curious fruits and flowers. 

Do you know the Blackthorn bush, whose small 
white flowers grow on its black stem, almost before 
winter is over, and while it has no leaves ? If you 




do, 1 expect you know that you vnW. find purple sloes 
on it in the autumn, under its small dark-green 
leaves, and you can gather the fruit to make sloe 
syrup or sloe wine. The blackthorn is not a good 
hedge plant, for its roots wander far out into the 
field, and it often grows into a tree and so leaves a 
gap in the fence. 

The Hawthorn or May is much better, for it 
grows into a thick quickset hedge, if it is properly 
cut, and the cattle do not break through it, because 
of its thorns. But you cannot use the fruit of the 
hawthorn, you must leave the haws for the birds. 

Then, in the hedge, or the wood, you will most 
likely find the Crab-apple tree, with its spreading 
branches, often covered with thorns. It has oval 
leaves ^vith sharp points, which are dowaiy under- 
neath when they are young. Its rosy pink-and- 
white blossoms come out in May, and in the autumn 
you will find the red crab-apple in their place. This 
fruit is sour and bitter. 

Another hedgerow treo is tlie W ild Cherry, ^wdiose 
fruit feeds the birds in the summer, and helps to 
keep them away from the corn. It is a bushy shrub 
with a red bark and blue-green egg-shaped leaves, 
very much notched round the edge. Its flowers 
grow on short stalks four or five from one point 
like our garden cherries, and the fruit, when it is 
ripe, is a bright red. If you live in Wales, or the 
middle or north of England, you may find another 
tree called the Bird-cherry (1, p. 56), whose fiowers 
grow along a thin stalk, and its fi-uit is black. 
But be sure you find the right one with long, 




drooping flower clusters, for many people call the 
wild dwarf cherry by this name. 

The blackthorn, hawthorn, crab-apple, and cherry 
all belong to the rose family, which, j^ou remember, 
has so many fruit-bearing plants in it. So does 
the pretty Rowan tree (plate, p. 51), often called the 
Mountain Ash, because its leaves are cut into leaf- 
lets ver3^ like those of the ash-tree. You will find the 
small white flowers of the Rowan tree (see l,p. 51) open 
in May. But you will like it best in autvimn Avhen the 
clusters of beautiful red berries are ripe. Perhaps 
you have one over your gate, for they were often 
planted there when people believed in witches, as 
they were supposed to keep them away. 

I must find room to tell you of two more hedge- 
1 ow shrubs. One is the Guelder Rose (2, p. 56), which 
has dark-green leaves cut into three or five points 
with a jagged edge. These leaves turn a lovely red 
in the autumn. Its white flowers grow in a flat 
cluster. The outer ones are large and have neither 
stamens nor seed-box in them. Their use is to 
attract the bees and flies, which come to the smaller 
flowers in the middle to fetch honey. These middle 
flowers are perfect and so the insects help them to 
form seed. The guelder rose has beautiful coral- 
red berries in the autumn. 

The other bush, which grows about five feet high 
in the hedge, is called the Spindle tree (2, p. 51), 
because its wood is used for making spindles and 
skewers. It has a smooth, grey stem and narrow, 
green leaves, which are very poisonous. You wiH 
scarcely notice j<^s small green-wbUc flfuvcrs in Ma 





But in the autumn it has a lovely and curious fruit. 
Four red seed-boxes gro^sv together in a clump on 
a short stalk. They lock very quaint, and if you 








open them you will find that the seed inside is 
covered with a blight orange-coloured membrane. 

Find the flowers and fruit of the hlackthorn, may, apple 
and wild cherry, rowan tree, guelder rose- and spindle tree. 




There is not room to grow large trees in a 
cottage garden, but many flowering shrubs can 
be planted in corners, and some of them are very 
lovely. The first to bloom in the year is the Japan 
pear, JPyrus japonica (plate, p. 61). It grows on 
many cottage walls, and makes them bright when 
the trees are bare of leaves. Its deep-red buds are 
showing even in January, and by the end of Feb- 
ruary the w'all is covered with them. They are like 
pear blossoms in shape, and grow in little bunches 
close against the stem. If you have not got one 
you will easily find a sucker, growing out from 
some neighbour's plant, and it is not difficult to rear. 
In the autumn you will see its hard, green fruit. 

Soon after the Japan pear is in full bloom 
the Rihes, or "flowering currant," will be showing 
its red tassels in most gardens. It was first brought 
from North America, and has spread all over Eng- 
land. You will easily know it, because its leaves 
are very like those of the currant-bushes in the 
kitchen garden, and its pretty hanging clusters 
of red or pink flowers are shaped like the little 
green blossoms of our currants and gooseberries 
Then in the autumn it has hanging bunches of 
dark berries, which are not good to eat. A piece 
of Ribes cut oft" and stuck in the ground will grow 
without any trouble. 

Another very pretty bush flowers in early summer. 






This is the Barberry, whose small scarlet fruits 
used at one time to be put inside sugar plums. 
The barberry is an interesting shrub, for it has 
turned some of its leaves into thorns, so that at 
each joint there is a three-pronged thorn, as well 
as the smooth, fringed leaves. The wild 
barberry has yellow flowers 
with bright red anthers, but 
there is a garden kind with 
ever-green leaves, 
which has deep 
orange-coloured 
flowers. They are 







small and 
, hang in a 
long spray, 
and if you are 
clever you can 
?A try an experiment 
with either the wild 
or garden barberry. 
Look carefully at one of the flowers and you 
will see that the six stamens are spread out, one 
lying down vipon each petal. At the bottom of 
the petal, near the middle of the flower, are two 
bags, out of which oozes honey in drops. The 
sticky stigma on the top of the seed-box stands 
up in the middle of the flower. 




Now take a needle and touch one of the stamens 
fit its base, just where the honey drops are. It will 
jump up, as if moved by a spring, and touch the 
sticky stigma, then after a Httle "vvhile it ^vill fall 
doTV n again. Now when a bee puts her head in for 
honey she irritates the stamen so that it jumps up 
and hits her and she carries the pollen-dust to 
another flower. Or the anther leaves some pollen 
on its own stigma, before it falls down again. 

But we must go on, for when the " March winds 
and April showers bring forth May flowers " there 
will be plenty of shrubs to look at. There is the 
Spanish Broom, with its bright yellow blossoms 
shaped like a pea-flower. You can find wild 
broom growing on the heaths. It is very like 
gorse, only it has smooth, green stems, and no 
prickles. But in the wild broom the blossoms 
grow^ singly on the stem, while in Spanish broom 
they form bright yellow clusters. The broom has 
no honey, but the bees come to it for pollen-dust to 
make bee-bread. 

If there is a Lilac bush growing near the broom 
you will notice how lovely the two colours, yellow 
and lilac, look together. You can make a very 
pretty nosegay from the two shrubs. But you 
will make a more graceful one, if you can find 
a Laburnum with its long sprays of golden blos- 
som. The laburnum has plenty of honey in its 
flowers, and, as the bees have to gnaw a lump to 
get at it, they often stop a long time at each 
flower, and you may see many on one tree. 
Laburnum pods are like small pea-pods, but take 





care not to eat the seeds in them, for they ax"e very 
poisonons. 

Next the Rhododendrons will be opening their 
beautiful bunches of red-purple flowers among 
their glossy, green leaves. These come from 
North America. But the Elderbush, which grows 
in the corner, making a pleasant shade over a 
little seat, is a true English shrub, which almost 
deserves to be called a tree. It does not bloom 
much before July, but it is one of the first trees 
to put out its leaves in the early sj)ring. Though 
it is not tall, it has very thick stems, and its bark is 
rough and corky. 

You must take the young branches if you want 
to make pop-guns, for in the old ones the pith 
is crushed up into quite a tiny space by the rings 
of wood outside. The leaves of the elder grow 
opposite to each other on the stem, and each leaf 
is cut into seven or nine leaflets, with one at the 
end. The small w^hite flowers grow in very large 
flat clusters, and leave the sweet elder -berries 
behind them in the autunni. 

If you have not an elder tree in the garden, you 
will very likely have a Snowball tree (see plate). 
This is a garden kind of Guelder rose. Its blossoms 
are not in a flat bunch as they are on the wild tree. 
They grow in a ball and they have no stamens or 
seedbox in them, so they make no seeds. But the 
leaves turn purple in the autumn and are very lovely. 

By this time the big purple Clematis will be 
out over the porch. It will last in bloom till 
October, and behind it on tl^e wall grows the 





Myrtle, which will be covered with white flowers 
in August. We all know the myrtle so well that 
it is difficult to believe that it is not a British 
shrub. It came from the south of France, and 
now grows in all warm parts of England, keeping 
our walls green all the year round. Its oval 
leaves give a delightful scent from the little pockets 
of oil, which you may see if you look through the 
leaf at the light. 


Next to the oak, the two hardwood trees which are 
most useful are the ash and the elm. Both these 
trees grow in the hedgerows as well as in the open 
fields, and they both blossom quite early in the 
year, before they put forth their leaves. 

You may know Ash stems anywhere, even in 
winter, by two things. First by the tips of its 
branches, which are flat, as if they had been pressed 
under a weight. And secondly by its black buds 
shaped like little pyramids (see p. 65). No other 
tree has black buds like these. The trunk is an 
ash-grey colour, and the branches grow very grace- 
fully, first di[)ping do^vn from the boughs and then 
tilting up again like the horns of a deer. 

In April the ash-buds on the side branches near 
to the tip begin to open out into clusters of purple- 
black flowers (2). Each flower is very small. It has 
no flower-leaves, nothing but a seed-box and two 




purple stamens. But these tiny flowers are so closely 
crowded that the whole tree is coloured by them. 

Then, at the end of May, the leaf -buds begin to 
open. The leaves grow opposite to each other on 
the branches, and each leaf (1) is cut into seven or 
more leaflets, with an odd one at the end. Many 
leaves are cut up like this, and you might think 
each leaflet was a leaf. But if they were leaves, a 
bud would grow at the base of each, near the stem, 
and there would be a growing tip at the end. So 
when there are neither of these you may know 
that all the leaflets make up one leaf ; and when it 
fades, the whole falls off together. 

All through the summer the tree is very beauti- 
ful, and its bluish-grey leaves differ from those of 
any other tree. But early in the autumn they turn 
yellow and fall. Then you will know the tree by its 
curious long, flat, narrow fruits (3), which hang in 
groups from the branches like bunches of keys. In 
fact, they are called " keys." They hang on some- 
times quite into the winter, till the rough winds 
tear them off. 

You may often find a young ash-tree growing in 
your garden, for they are very hardy. But rabbits 
are fond of eating the young seedlings, so they have 
not much chance to grow. Young ash stems are 
often used for walking-sticks and hop-poles, and the 
wood, when full-grown, sells very well for coach- 
building and for making furniture. 

We all know Elm-trees so well that perhaps you 
may think that there is nothing interesting to learn 
about them. But I wonder if you have noticed that 





the twigs of an elm grow on the trunk almost to the 
bottom of the tree unless they are lopped o£P. And 
I am almost sure that many of you do not know that 






the twigs are often covered with little lumps of cork 
making the branch look as if it were diseased. 

It is really quite healthy, but it tells a secret, 







namely, that the elm has a very corky bark. Even 
on the trunk the cork is thick and rugged, and on 
the small branches it has no room to spread, and 
has to lie in lumps. The inner part of the bark 
called the "liber" is very tough, and is used for 

making mats and 
ropes. 

The common 
elm, which so often 
grows in rows be- 
tween the fields, or 
is planted on the 
village green, was 
brought to England 
by the Romans. It is not quite 
at home even now, for its seeds do 
not ripen, except in very hot 
summers, and new trees have to 
be planted from suckers. 

The real old elm of England is 

the Wych elm or Scotch elm. It 

has not such a tall trunk as the 

common elm, for its big branches 

grow out much lower do^vn. Its 

leaves are bigger, and its seeds ripen 

and grow, when they are sown. But 

it is not very common in our country and grows 

chiefly in Scotland, Wales, and the West of 

England. 

Even ill winter you can count a great number 
of buds on the elm, and when April comes, if you 
look up through the boughs, ycu will see a purple 








tinge all over the top of the ti'ee. This is caused by 
the t\ny purple flowers which burst out on the 
twigs. Now watch the tree. At the end of April 

. 

the fresh green lea\-es peep out of the leaf-buds. 
But already the seed-boxes are begiiniing to fall and 
are blown into heaps by the wind. 




I am sure you must kno^v^ these little, flat, green 
plates, with a lump in the middle where the seed 
lies. They are blown along the fields, and often 
down the village street, filling the gutters. If they 
fall from the Common elm it is very doubtful 
whether they will grow. But if you have a Wych 
elm on the green, you may know its seed-boxes, be- 
cause the seed ai\\^ays lies quite in the middle of 
the plate, while in the common elm it lies nearer 
the point. These seeds are ripe and worth sowing. 

There are a great many kinds of elm in England, 
very like each other, but it is easy to know the 
Cornish elm because it grows such a great deal of 
cork on its twigs. All the big forest elms are very 
useful for timber. They sometimes live for four or 
five hundred years, but the best time for cutting 
them down is when they are about one hundred 
and twenty years old. 

A great many insects feed on the elm. The most 
destructive one is a beetle which eats its way down 
to the inner bark, and sucks the sap. Then the 
mother beetle works her way down about two 
inches and makes little galleries all along the tube 
on each side. In each gallery she lays an egg, and 
the grubs when they are hatched eat the wood. The 
trees of whole forests have been killed by this "elm- 
destroying beetle," 

Bring an ash branch to look at the twigs and buds. Find 
a, bunch of ash-keys. Find the corky twigs of the ehn, and the 
green seed-plates in May. Look in decayed elms for the gal« 
leries of the elm-destroying beetle. 




In our great parks you will find the largest 
and grandest English trees, besides many which 
are interesting because they come from abroad. 
Avenues, of a mile or two miles long, are often 
planted with one kind of tree, chestnut, beech, 
oak, horse-chestnut, or lime, while in the open 
ground the oaks and horse-chestnuts grow into 
much finer trees than in the fields. 

We have not yet spoken of the Lime-tree, but 
you know it quite well, with its straight, smooth 
trunk, its bright, heart-shaped green leaves, bigger 
on one side than the other, and pointed at the 
tip, and its bunches ol yellowish green flowers, 
which grow on a long stalk coming out of the 
middle of a yellow-green leaf (2, p. 71). 

Get some of these flowers in July, or some 
of the round, downy fruit with ribs on it in the 
autumn when it is ripe. The leaf out of which 
they grow is called a bract, and is the same kind 
of leaf as the scales on which the willow stamens, 
and the pine seeds grow. But in the Lime it has 
become a long leaf which can be carried by the 
wind. The inner bark or "liber" of the lime tree 
is very useful in making ropes, and of all trees the 
bees love this one, for the flowers have a sweet 
scent and plenty of honey in their cups. 

There is another tree which is ahnost as useful 





to the bees, which blooms rather earlier than the 
lime. This is the Sycamore, ^vhose clusters of 
green flowers hang from the twigs in May, before 
the leaves are quite out. The sycamore is a very 
handsome tree with large leaves cut into five 
broad divisions. It is really a kind of maple, very 
like the common English field maple which grows 
in the hedges. If you stand under a sycamore in 
warm weather you will often notice that drops 
fall from it, and you will find that its leaves are 
sticky. This is because all maples have a great 
deal of very sugary juice or sap in them, which 
rises up and oozes out of the leaves, either from 
cracks made by the leaf being dry, or because some 
insect has , bitten a hole. You must have seen 
the little green blight-insects which cling on rose 
trees and other plants, and suck out their juice. 
Hundreds and thousands of these, besides other 
bugs (such as the cuckoo-spit, "which you find 
covered with froth), suck the sap of trees. So 
through the cracks they have made the sugary 
juice of the sycamore or the maple oozes out 
over the leaves. 

The fruit of these trees is very curious. It is 
winged like the keys of the ash, but two fruits 
grow together, so that the two wings spread out 
like those of a moth (see p. 73). The wings of the 
Field Maple fruit are spread more widely than 
those of the sycamore. 

Maple wood is very useful for furniture. A 
great many of our desks and wardrobes are 
made from American maple. Maple sugar, which 










American children love, conies from the sugary 
sap of an American species. 

Another tree which you will find in the park 
is the Walnut, which was brought to England by 
the Romans. It is a large, 
spreading tree with a rough 
trunk and strong, crooked 
branches. Its leaves are cut 
like those 

of the ash, > 

but they 
are much 
larger. They 
h a V e a 
pretty red 
tinge when 
they are 
young, and 
always have 
a strong 
smell when 
they are 
crushed. 

These trees grow so quickly that 
they are twenty feet high in ten years, (^, 
and then begin to flower and make sycamoiu; twig 
fruit. They go on growing till they ^^'^th ns fruit 
are about seventy feet high. You 
can see the long catkins hanging from the tree in 
April just as the leaves are opening. The stamen 
catkins are at the tip of last year's tAvigs. But 
the little grouj) of flowers which will grow into 





walnuts are on the new twigs, which have just come 
from buds. In autumn every boy knows the 
walnut fruit shut up in the green husk, Avhich 
stains your fingers brown as you peel it off. When 
the husk is off you can slip a knife between the 
halves of the hard shell and split them aj)art. In 
doing this you divide the two seed-leaves of the 
seed, which are the parts you eat ; and if you look 
carefully you will see the little white bud and 
root, lying bet^veen them, at the pointed end of the 
walnut. Walnut wood is very useful for furni- 
ture, for it becomes a deep brown when the tree 
is old, and has very beautiful veins in it. 

There is one more tree or shrub w^hicli grows 
only in parks and shrubberies, about which I must 
tell you, because it is so pretty. But I am not 
sure you will be able to find one. It is the Arbutus, 
or Strawberry tree (plate, p. 71) so called because its 
fruits look like strawberries. It is an evergreen 
shrub with green, glossy leaves shaped like a bay leaf 
and very notched at the edge. Its flowers are bell- 
shaped and waxy like the flowers of the heath, and 
they hang on bent stalks. But the curious thing 
about them is, that the fruits take a year to ripen. 
First they are a pale yellow, then they grow deeper 
and deeper in colour till they are a bright scarlet, 
hanging in twos and threes among the dark-green 
leaves, just when the tree blooms afresh Avith its 
pretty, greenish-white flowers. 

Other trees which you may find in the park are 
the Chili pine, or monkey-puzzle, a tree which bears 
cones and has such prickly leaves close together. 





that it would indeed puzzle a monkey to climb it, 
and the large magnolias and tulip-trees which have 
such beautiful white and pinkish flowers as large 
as bowls. But these are foreigners and w^e must 
be content wdth knowing about English-growing 
trees. 

Find the flowers and fruit of the lime tree ; the leaves of the 
sycamore sticky with honey-dew ; the winged seeds of the 
maple and the sycamore ; the leaves and catkins of the walnut 
tree. Open a walnut and find the young shoot inside. 



In the summer when the trees are in full leaf, and 
you have learnt to know" them, you should bring 
in leafy twigs from each tree and note how the 
leaves grow on the stem, and what shapes they 
have. 

We have already noticed that some trees, such 
as the horse-chestnut and the maple, have their 
leaves opposite to each other on the stem, two 
growing on each joint, Avhile others, such as the elm 
and the beech for example, have their leaves 
alternate, one only growing from each joint. But 
there are many kinds of alternate leaves, and you 
mil enjoy finding them out. 

In the elm and the beech every other leaf comes 
exactly above the one below. Leaf 1 comes on one 
side of the stem, leaf 2 on the other side, leaf 3 
exactly above leaf 1. But if you take a twig of the 




trembling poplar, or Aspen, it ^vill be leaf 4 which 
conies above leaf 1. They have crept more slowly 
round the stem. Then take a twig of oak. You 
will find that you will have to count six leaves 
before you find one exactly over the first one. All 
these differences have their use, and when you are 
in the lanes, if you look at the trees, you will see 
how these arrangements bring the leaves into posi- 
tions where they can best get light and air. 

The next thing to look at is the shape of the 
leaves themselves. Botanists have a great many 
names to describe the shapes, the edges, the veins, 
and the divisions of leaves. I can only tell you of a 
few, so that you may keep your eyes open and 
notice others. 

Leaves which are whole, so that you cannot pull 
off one i3iece without tearing it away from the rest, 
are called simple. The leaves of the elm, beech, 
sweet-chestnut, lime, oak, "willow, sycamore, and 
many others are simple. 

Leaves which are cut into separate leaflets, so 
that you can pull one off without touching the 
others, are called co7tipou7id. The leaves of the 
horse-chestnut, ash, rose, rowan-tree, and elder are 
co7npound. You will remember that you know the 
divisions are leaflets and not leaves, because there 
is no growing tip at the end, and there are no buds 
in the angles. The leaflets grow out from the top 
of the leaf stalk (horse-chestnut), or from the 
narrow, green line, up the middle (rose), which is 
not a stalk, but the niidrib of the leaf. 

Now take all the simple leaves you have and see 





what sIlapo$ they are. The hest way to find out 
this is to lay a leaf on your slate and draw a line 
round it. This is very easy Avith a beech leaf, or the 
leaf of a sweet- chestnut. But when you take art 
oak leaf, you will want to know whether you are to 
rvm in and out of the divisions. 

For the shape of a leaf you are not to do this. 










You are to begin at the leaf stalk and run round the 
outside points of the leaf all the way till you come 
back to the leaf stalk again. If you go round a 
maple leaf Kke this you will have a shape something 
hke a kidnerj. A sycamore leaf will be more heart- 
shaped, longer, and ending in a bhnit tip. An oak 
leaf will be oblong, longer than it is broad. The 




leaf of an elm or a beech you will find is shaped 
like an egg, and so is called oval, while the leaf of 
l;he sweet-chestnut is narrow and long. Lastly, if 
you take a lime leaf it will be heart-shaped, but 
uneven, one side of the leaf larger than the other. 
It is called oblique. 

Now let us see how much the different leaves 
are cut. Some, like those of the lilac and ivy, are 
smooth at the edge. Others are wavy, and the holly 
has prickles at the end of its waves to protect it. 
But, if you look at holly leaves near the top of a 
tree where the cattle cannot reach, you w^ill often 
find they do not take the trouble to grow prickles. 

Other leaves have teeth round the edge. The 
leaf of the sweet-chestnut is toothed like a saw. So 
is a birch leaf, but if you look closely you will find 
it has two sets of teeth. The large teeth have their 
edges cut into small teeth. This leaf has a double- 
sawed edge. Some leaves again are very deeply cut 
into divisions or lobes. An oak leaf is cut, sometimes 
only in a wavy line, and sometimes into quite large 
divisions. A sycamore leaf has five large pointed 
divisions or lobes. 

Get these two leaves and compare them. You 
will see that the veins which make the skeleton of 
the different shapes are not the same. In the syca- 
more leaf the large veins, or ribs, start from the 
top of the stalk, and spread out like five fingers, 
while the little veins start out from them. A leaf 
like this is called a palm-veined or palmate-veined 
leaf because the veins are like fingers on a hand. 
In the oak leaf, on the contrary, one long rib runs 




up the middle. The smaller ones start from it, like 
the featherlets of a bird's feather. So an oak leaf is 
said to be feather-veined or pinnate-veined, from 
pi7ina, a feather. 

Now take the compound leaves of the horse- 
chestnut, ash, and rose. In the horse-chestnut the 
leaflets grow just like the veins of the sycamore. 
Seven fingers start from the top of the leaf stalk 
and spread out like fingers, so it is called a pahnate 
leaf. But the ash and the rose have a rib up the 
middle and the separate leaflets are arranged 
feather-wise. So these leaves are called pinnate. 

There are a great many leaves with shapes 
between these, and if you collect them and arrange 
them in an old copy book, you will soon get an 
idea of the meaning of their names. 

Describe the leaves of the oak, horse-chestnut, and elm and 
their position on the stem. Arrange any simple leaves and 
compound leaves you can find in a copy book and describe 
them. 



It is a lovely svinimer morning. Let us shut up 
our books and wander in the garden and field, in 
search of insects. The best way is to take a few 
card match-boxes with us, and drop one insect into 
each as we find them. Then when we get back to 
school, we can put them separately under tumblers, 

Insects are so small that we often pass them by. 
But they form three-fourths of the whole animal 
kingdom, and they do us so much good and so 
much harm that we ought to know about them. 

As we start I see a Cabbage Butterfly in the 
kitchen garden, and a beautiful Red Admiral 
flitting about among the flowers. We will takt 
the Cabbage Butterfly, so that she may not lay 
her eggs on our cabbages. 

Next stop at this rose-tree, there are a number 
of tiny insects on the flower-stalks. If you look 
closely, you will see that each one has his beak 
buried in the stem, so as to suck out the juice. 
These are Dlant-lice, Each one is called an Aphis 



We must syringe the tree with soft soap and 
tobacco water, or it will soon be covered Tvith 
xhese insects, for they increase at the rate of more 
than a million in a month, and they suck out all 
the sweet sap from the plants to which they cling. 
On the same tree you ^11 very likely find a Lady- 
bird, for she feeds on ajjliides. 

Now look into the flower of this old Cabbage 
Rose, which grows in most cottage gardens. You 
are almost sure to find in it a lovely Rose-beetle 
with green shining wings shot Tvith gold. Take 
it up and look at the bright wing-cases. While 
you are looking, it may open these cases and 
spread out the transparent ^vings underneath ; but 
if it flies away you can easily get another. 

Now, look ! At your feet runs a beetle which is 
not half so pretty. It is the Cocktail, or Rove 
Beetle (see p. 36), often called the Devil's Coach- 
horse. As you pick him up he will cock up his tail 
and squirt out a very disagreeable fluid over your 
fingers, while he raises his head and snaps with his 
jaws. So drop him in his box quickly. The fact 
is, he is terribly frightened, and hopes to make 
you set him free. 

Now we will go out into the newly-mown field, 
and there you will see a number of small green 
Grasshoppers hopping about. They have been 
hatched under the earth-clods, and are eating 
the tips of the young grass. Some will have 
wings, but others, which are not fully grown, 




I have not asked 
for a Spider. You 
had better get one, 
and also a Hun dred- 
legs or Centipede, 
if you can find 
it. 

When you hav^ 
put these specimens 
under their glasses, 
look carefully at 
them. You will 
find a difference 
between the spider, 



will have none. 

Pick one up and 

make him too a 

prisoner. 

Next try to find a 

Wasp or a Bee. You 

can pick it up in your 

handkerchief and drop 

it in its box. We must 

go down to the river to 

find a May - fly or a 

Dragon - fly, and near 

there w^e shall easily get 

a Daddy-long-legs. But 

if there is not one to be 

seen, a Blue-bottle or a 

Gnat will do. 

You will wonder that 




the hundred-legs and all the others. The spider 
has eight legs and the centii)ede a very great 
many, while all the others have only six. 

Now look at the Grasshopper, the Wasp, and 
the Daddy-long-legs. You can see very clearly 
that their bodies are divided into three parts — 
(a) the head ; (6) the front body, on which the six 
legs and the wings grow ; (c) the hind body, which 
has no legs on it, even when it is very long, as in 
the daddy-long-legs and the May-fly. You cannot 
see these divisions quite so well in the beetle be- 
cause its wing-cases cover the join between the 
front and hind body. 

Wo had better call these three divisions by 
their light names — (a) head; (b) front body, or 
thorax; (c) hind body, or abdomen. It is because 
insects are cut into these three parts that they 
have their name. It conies from the Latin " inseco" 
(/ cut into). The Spider's head is not clearly divided 
from i<s body, and a Centipede has not three 
divisions. For this reason, and because they have 
not six legs, some naturalists separate them from 
the true insects. This is why I did not call them 
insects 

Another thing you can notice well in the little 
green Grasshopper : his body is divided into rings 
(r), from his tail up to his head ; and you can 
see the same i^ the wasp and the daddy-long-legs, 
the aphis and tiie cocktail beetle. All insects 
have ringed bodies. 

It is these rings which enable the Wasp to 
bend her abdomen (c) when she wants to sting 






and to breathe. You can see, as she stands, 
how it keeps moving up and down all the time. 
This is because she is breathing. How do you 
think she does it ? Not through her mouth as 
we do, but through her sides. 

If you look closely at the grasshopper you will 
see along the sides of his body, some little black 
dots (h, p. 7), one in each ring. These are breathing 
holes, and through them the air goes in and out. 
They are smaller in a wasp, but they are there, and 
she is pumping the air in and out of them. 

NoT\^ that we have put aside the spider and 
the centipede, those that remain are true insects. 
But there is a difference between the daddy-long- 
legs and the rest, which you must notice. This 
is that they all have four wings and he has only 
two. This would be very strange if it Avere not 
that we can find some remains of the right number. 
He has two little knobs (k) behind his front wings, 
and with these he balances himself. So he has two 
wings and the stumps of two more. 

There is a great deal more to be learnt about 
these insects. But I want you to remember now 
— that they have six legs ; that their body is divided 
into three parts ; that you can see the rings in 
their hind body or abdomen ; that their legs and 
wings grow on the front body or thorax ; and that 
they never breathe through their mouths. Also 
that while bees, butterflies, and beetles have four 
wings, flies have two wings and two stumps. 

Find as many insects as you can, and notice their different 
parts. 



In the last lesson we found the full-grown insects 
very easily. But it is often more difficult to know 
some of them when they are young. Grasshoppers, 
crickets, and plant-lice, when they come out of the 
egg, are very much the same as -when they are 
grown up, except that they have no wings. But 
the daddy-long-legs begins its life as a grub under- 
ground. The lady-bird when young is a kind of 
caterpillar and runs over the plants eating plant- 
lice. And beetles are grubs with six small legs 
jefore they grow into perfect beetles with wings. 

The caterpillars of Moths and Butterflies are easy 
to find, so we will look at one in this lesson. There 
is hardly any time in the summer that you cannot 
find a caterpillar. Those of the Orange-tipped 
Butterfly come out first in April. In May the 
Cabbage Butterfly lays her eggs, and soon the 
caterpillars are eating the young cabbage leaves. 
A little later you may find among the nettles the 
black caterj)illars with white spots (2, p. 10) which 
will tvirn in June into the Peacock Butterfly; or 
the dark green caterj)illars of the Red Admiral. 
These are hidden in a bunch of leaves generally tied 
up with caterpillar silk. 

If you do not find either of these you cannot 
miss the heaps of little black caterpillars striped 
with yellow "which feed under the leaves of nettles, 
and turn into the small Tortoiseshell Butterfly. 
These caterpillars are very useful in killing nettles^ 




SO the butterfly is one you should always be glad 
to see. Then towards the autumn the caterpillars 
of the big Hawk-moths do a great deal of mischief. 
If you go out in the evening or early morning you 
may find the caterpillar of the Sjjurge Hawk-moth 
feeding on the green spurge in the hedges. It is 
a fine creature three inches 
long, with three bright 
lines on its back, and yel- 
low spots on each ring. 

But the most common 
one, which I have often 
found, is the caterpillar of 
the Privet Hawk-moth {see 
coloured picture, p. 20), 
which feeds in the evening

on the privet hedge or the 
lilac bushes. It is from 

three to four inches long, and is a bright apple- 
green, with seven sloping violet stripes on its sides, 
and a horn at the end of its body. Its head is 
green, edged with black, and the breathing holes 
on its sides are circled with bright orange. 

It destroys the hedges terribly, for it is very 
nungry and w^ants to store up food so that it 
may grow into a moth. Though its body is 
soft, its head is hard and horny, and as its mouth 
has nothing to do in breathing, or making any 
noise, it can be used all the time for eating. It 
is made of a great many pieces, but the parts 
you can see well are the large upper lip (ul) 
and the two broad strong outer jaws (j) which 




move to and fro sideways as it gnaws the leaf. As 
soon as a piece is cut off the caterpillar tucks it 
into his inner jaws (ij), where it is chewed and 
swallowed. Under the jaws is the flat lower lip 
(ZZ), through which passes a little tube. Look well 
at this tube (s). It is the place from which comes 
the silk which he uses to sj)in his cocoon, in which 
he sleeps while his butterfly body is growing. 

You remember Ave read in Book I. that the 
spider spins her web out of silk which comes from 
six little pockets under her body. But a caterpillar 
or a silkworm brings its silk out of its mouth. 

Now look at the legs. There are three pairs, 
one on each ring of the thorax. They have joints 
in them and claws at the end (2, p. 15). These are 
true legs, and they are hard and horny like the 
head. When the caterpillar turns into a moth 
these six legs will remain. But it has also some 
cushion feet {see p. 20), on the other rings of its 
body, which it uses to hold fast to the twigs. 
These are not true legs, but only fleshy cushions 
(1, p. 15) with a ring of hooks under them, and they 
will disappear with the caterpillar's body when the 
moth grows up. There are generally four pairs 
of cushion feet behind the true legs, and two 
pairs at the end of the body, but some cater- 
pillars do not have so many. Do you know hose 
called "Loopers," which bend their body ii to an 
arch or loop? You may often find them on the 
currant bushes, where they do a great deal of 
mischief They have only six true legs and four 
cushion feet at the end of their body, and they 





walk in a curious fashion. They hold firmly to 
the twig by their front legs, and then draw up 
their cushion feet till their body makes a loop in 
the air. Then they let go with their front legs and 
lift up their head like an elephant raises his trunk, 
and stretch forward fvirther up the twig. 

As a caterpillar is always eating, his skin be- 
comes so full that there comes a time when he 
cannot put in any more food. Then he remains 
quiet for a few hours, and swells 
out his rings. His skin splits and 
he creeps out, with a new soft skin 
ready underneath. This will stretch, 
and very soon he is eating away as i cushion feet of 
merrily as ever, caterpillar. 



Me does this about nve tunes m 
his caterpillar life, and then he stops eating and 
remains without moving for some days. His colour 
fades, and ^vhen he splits his skin and shuffles it 
off, all the parts of the butterfly or moth are to be 
seen underneath, soft and unfinished. Soon a kind 
of gum oozes out over them. This hardens and 
keeps the tender body safe from harm while it is 
growing. 

Now he is called a chrysalis, or sometimes a pupa 
or doll ; and, indeed, he looks like a crumpled doll 
as you sec his legs bent together and his head folded 
down over them under the hard gum. The pupa 
of a butterfly is generally broad at the top and 
narrow at the bottom, and it has ridges and 
prickles on it (3, Plate, p. 10). But the pupas of 
moths are shaped more like an egg, and are smooth 




(3, Plate, p. 20). Moths generally wrap their pupa 
in a silk bag" or cocoon, but butterflies leave theirs 
naked, and fasten it to a stem or a blade of grass 
with a silken cord (5, Plate, p. 10). 

The caterpillar of the Hawk-moth works its way 
down into the ground and lies in a hole which it 
lines with silk. I had one in a large flower-pot 
once for many months. After about seven months, 
or sometimes much longer, the pupa wriggles up 
to the top of the ground, and then breaks through 
its cover and conies out as a moth. 

Bring in sone caterpillai^s, each witli the plant on which 
you find it. Keep them fed and watch tlieir changes. 


When Moths creep out of their cases they no 
longer do us any harm. They spread their wings 
and fly about sipping honey from the flowers. 
Their strong jaws have almost disappeared, and 
featliery lips take their place. Their inner jaws 
have grown very long, and are rolled together 
into a long double tube (p. 17) — very like a tiny 
elephant's trunk. When the insect is not using 
this trunk it is rolled up under its lip, but when 
it wants to reach the honey in the flowers it 
unrolls the trunk and thrusts it into the blossoms. 

In the early morning, or evening in August, j^ou 
may see the Privet Hawk-moth (1, p. 20) with its 
beautiful rose-coloured wings striped with black, 
thrusting its head into the honeysuckle in the 
hedge. Cr the large brown Humming-bird moth 




may be hovering in the sunshine over a bed of 
flowers in the garden, or sucking honey out of 
the deep flowers of the evening primrose. You 
may know it partly by the humming noise it 
makes ^"ith its wings, and partly because it does 
not settle on the floAA^ers, but suclvs as it flies. 

Then there is the Death's-iiead Hawk-moth, 
which is the largest moth in England, and has this 
curious name because the grey marks on the back 
of its thorax are something like a 
skull. It has brown front wings, 
and yellow^ hind wings, with dark 
bands across them, and its feelers 
and trunk are very short. You may « ' 
find it, if you look out after sunset 
in the autumn, fluttering over the 
hedge, for it is not nearly so rare as 
people think, only it always flies by head of a moth. 


If you get one of these big moths 
you will be surprised to see how different it is from 
the caterpillar out of which it grows. The six legs 
are still there on the three rings of the thorax, but 
there are four splendid wings above them. These 
wings are made of very fine transparent skin, and 
are covered all over with scales, which are arranged 
like tiles on a roof. However carefully you take 
hold of a moth or a butterfly you will always find 
some fine dust left on your fingers. Each grain of 
this dust is a lovely scale, and it Is these wliich give 
the moth its beautiful colours. Moths and butter- 
flies are called Lejiidoptera, because this word means 







scale-winged. The caterpillar had six small eyes, 
so tiny that we did not notice them. The moth has 
these still, hut it has besides two glorious globes (e, 
p. 17) on each side of its head, cut into hundreds of 
little ^windows, so that the moth can look every way, 
although the eyes do not move. The eyes of the 
Death's-head moth shine like red 
imps in the dark night. 
The moth is plainly divided 
the three parts. Its hind 
is oval and pointed, its 
broad front body carries its 
legs and wings, and its head 
carries the big eyes (e), the 
delicate feelers, and the 
sucking trunk (p. 17). The 
feelers or anteniice of 
moths are broad in the 
middle and pointed at 
the end, and they have 
tiny feathers on them. By this you may know 
moths from butterflies. For the antennae of butter- 
flies are nearly always round and thick at the ends 
like a club and have no feathers on them. 

Another difl^erence between them is, that butter- 
flies fold their wings upicards over their backs so 
chat the upper side of the wings touch each other, 
while moths lay theirs down on their backs like a 
roof on a house. 

One common moth you may find is the Goat- 
moth. It has a short body and brownish white 
wings with wavy black lines on them. You will 






find it resting on the leaves of the willow or poplar. 
It does not fly about much, for it has no trunk, and 
does not eat any food during its short moth life. 
It only wants to find a place on which to lay its 
eggs, which will hatch into a naked red grub. This 
grub "svill bore its way into the tree and live there 
for years, eating 
the ^vood. 

Many moth 
grubs live inside 
trunks an d 

branches. If you 
look over the cur- 
rant bushes on a 
hot summer's day 
you ^vill often find 
a pretty little moth 
with a narrow 
yellow and black 
body, thin legs, 
long feelers and 
clear transparent 
wings, very unlike 
most moths. This is one of the Clear-wing-moths 
(5, Plate, p. 20), which have scales round the edge of 
their wings only. It is so lazy that you will easily 
catch it, and it looks so like a gnat that it is called 
the Gnat Clearwing. This moth lays its eggs in the 
twigs of the currant bushes, and its little yellow 
caterpillar, with a black line on its back, eats its 
way into the pith of the twigs. You should always 
clear away the dead or faded twigs on the currant 
c — VI 



bushes, for fear these caterpillars should be in 
them. 

Another moth which you may find flying in the 
bright sunshine is of a dark blue-green colour, with 
six bright crimson spots on its wings. It is the 
Six-spot Burnet-moth, whose cocoons you may 
find in May fastened on the blades of long grass 
in the meadow. By August the moth is out and 
flits from flo^ver to flower. 

There is one more moth which you will like to 
knoTV% because its caterpillar is the Woolly Bear, 
or Hairy Man, which curls itself up in a ball when 
you pick it up. It is very fond of feeding on the 
lettuces and strawberries, and when it is ready to 
change it bites off its long hairs and weaves them 
into its cocoon. When the moth comes out it runs 
about the flower beds in the evening and does not 
fly very high. But everyone knows it as the Tiger- 
moth (4, p. 20), for it is the grandest moth w^e 
have. Its front wings are cream coloured with 
wavy brown stripes on them. The hind ones are 
bright scarlet spotted with black. Its thorax has a 
bright red band on it, and its abdomen is scarlet 
with black bars. If you can find a Woolly Bear in 
the early summer and keep it in a box with a piece 
of wire over it and give it plenty of dead nettles to 
eat you may see its cocoon and the grand Tiger-moth 
which comes out of it. 

Try to find a Hawk -moth, a Clearwing-moth, a Tiger-moth, 
and the cocoon of the Burnet-moth. Bring in caterpillars and 
cocoons, when you can find them, always with a piece of the 
plant ou which they feed. 


There are not nearly so many butterflies as there 
are moths. But as the moths often fly at night, we 
know butterflies best, because they flutter about in 
the bright sunshine. Their caterpillars do not do so 
m.uch harm in the garden as the moth caterpillars, 
except those of the Cabbage butterfly, which we 
read about in Book III. 

You will find it very interesting, in the spring 
and early summer, to look for the chrysalis of each 
common butterfly, and keep them in a box with a 
piece of coarse muslin over it, so as to watch when 
they come out. 

If you do this you will see their colours much 
better than by catching them, because when they 
first come out of their sheath, their wings are not 
battered with wind and rain. And you need not kill 
them ; when you have looked at them you can set 
them free to enjoy the sunshine. 

It is curious that so many butterflies lay their 
eggs on the leaves of stinging nettles. Perhaps it is 
because the cows and sheep will not eat these 
plants, so the eggs are safe. The Peacock butterfly, 
the small Tortoiseshell, and the Red Admiral all 
leave their eggs on nettles. It is there that you 
will find their pupas or chrysalises. Let me tell 
you how to know them. 

The eggs of the Peacock butterfly are gummed 
in patches under the nettle leaves, and in June 
you may find the little black caterpillars spotted 
with white all feeding together in groups. Early 


in July they will each of them have spun a little 
cushion of silk under some leaf, by which the 
curious stiff chrysalis hangs head downwards, look- 
ing like a brown shining shell (3, Plate, p. 10). 

If you carry home either the caterpillar (2), 
or the chrysalis, you will find that about the end 
of July a glorious butterfly (1) will come out. Its 
hind ^wings are brown and its front wings bright 
red and blue, and on each of the four wings 
there is a large bright eye-spot, like the eyes on 
a peacock's tail. The body is dark blue, and the 
feelers on the head are long and thin, with 
knobs at the end. But when the butterfly shuts its 
wings (la), all the bright colours are hidden and 
the whole insect is brown like the trunk of a tree, 
with pale edges like wood newly cut, so that the 
birds are not so likely to see it when it is resting. 

But, if you bring home another chrysalis from 
the nettles by mistake, a different butterfly will 
surprise you. This one has wings much notched 
round the edge, and they are coloured black 
with red markings and white spots. It is the 
Red Admiral, whose pupa also hangs head down- 
wards under nettle leaves. You will not make 
this mistake if you find the caterpillar, for it is 
not black like that of the Peacock butterfly, but 
dark green with a yellow line on its sides, and it 
has spikes all over it. It feeds on nettle leaves 
which it ties round itself with silken threads. And 
you must remember that these green and yellow 
caterpillars will turn into Red Admirals. 

Again, you may find a bunch of settle leaves tied 




together with silk, which have many caterpillars 
inside them. These will be very spiny, and have 
four yellow stripes on their black bodies. They will 
turn into small Tortoiseshell 
butterflies. 

Unless you know these 
three kinds of caterpillars 
well, the safe way is to 
bring them all home 
and keep them till the 
butterflies come out, 
and then notice many 
little differences which 
I cannot give you here. 

On the thistles jow 
may find another 
caterpillar which 
draws the leaves 
round it, and whose 
chrysalis has gold 
spots upon it. This 
will turn into a reddisl 
fly called the Painted ] 
years there are very 
while in other years they are plentif i 

Our next search shall be among 
the alder trees by the riverside 
either in the early spring or al)out 
the end of July, for there are two 
broods of this butterfly. 

You must look among the small twigs for a 
pretty green chrysalis with red dots on it, something 




like a ribbed shell. It will be tied round the middle 
to the stem of the twig by a fine rope of silk (5, 
Plate, p. 10). Notice how cleverly the caterpillar 
has swung it, so that the heavy broad end balances 
the long thin one. Then cut off the twig and take 
it home. The chrysalis will turn into the Brim- 
stone butterfly (4), whose pale yellow wings 
have four red spots on them. You will know it 
quite well, for it is generally the first butterfly to 
come out in the spring. 

Next we shall have to look low down among the 
plants by the roadside. There are some with white 
and pink flowers 'whose petals are in the form of a 
cross. They are called rockcress and bittercress, and 
if you can find out which they are, and look under 
their leaves you may find a most curious chrysalis 
(7, p. 10) shaped like a boat pointed at both ends. 
This will turn into the Orange-tip butterfly (6), 
which has a broad orange patch on the tip of its 
front wings. This butterfly is very gay when it is 
flying, but when it settles (8) and folds its wings 
upwards, it can scarcely be seen on the flowers of 
the wild parsley from which it sips honey. This is 
because the underside of the wings are dotted with 
green and white, like the tiny parsley flowers with 
their white petals and green centres. 

Another common butterfly is the small Heath 
(9) which may be seen any fine day in June or 
September sipping honey from the heath on the 
common. It feeds as a green caterpillar on the tall 
grasses, and comes out a pretty little butterfly with 
tawny yellow wings, with a round eye-spot. 




Now you kno^v liow^ to look for caterpillars, 
and chrysalises, and butterflies, you can learn 
about them for yourself. Anywhere on the violet 
beds you may find the spiny caterpillars* of the 
pretty striped and dotted butterflies called Fritil- 
laries. Blue butterflies are found mostly in chalk 
districts, though the Common Blue lives almost 
everywhere, and you may often see the little 
Copper butterflies flying with it, their dark glitter- 
ing wings gleaming amongst the lovely blues. And 
wherever you see a butterfly on the wing you 
should try to follow it till it alights, for one of the 
most interesting points to notice, among all butter 
flies, is how the under colour of their wings helps 
to hide them when they are resting, while the 
upper colour is bright and gay. 

Bring in caterpillai's and chrysalises, and watch them. 
Notice the plant on which the caterpillar feeds. Compare the 
under surface of their wings with the plants on which they 
settle, 



All living creatures must hunt for food, and 
insects eat a great deal for their size. Beetles 
are very heavy feeders. They eat most when they 
are grubs, but some, like Cockchafers and Tiger- 
beetles, eat almost as much when they are full- 
grown and have their wings. 

There are plant-eating beetles, and beetles which 
feed on other insects and animals. Altogether 
there are more than 3,000 species of beetles ir the 




British Isles. It is useful to know w^hat kind of food 
a beetle eats, for some do good work in the fields and 
gardens, while others do great injury to the crops. 

One of the most mischievous is the Cockchafer. 
You know^ him quite well when he flies in your 
face in the evening. But perhaps you do not 
know him as a grub, when he lives for three or 
four years underground, and eats the roots of the 
grass, corn, and vegetables. If you see plants in 
the cornfield or garden looking sickly and yellow, 
and drooping their leaves although the ground is 
damp, it is most likely that there is a grub under- 
neath, and it may be the grub of a Cockchafer. 

Dig up the plant and you will find an ugly 
white creature (3, Plate, p. 30) like a huge maggot, 
almost as thick as your little finger, with a red 
head and very strong jaws. It has six long legs, 
with five joints, growing on the rings behind its 
head, and is so full of food that it can hardly crawl. 
The end of its tail is swollen into a thick cushion, 
and you can see the breathing all along its sides very 
clearly because it is so distended with food. You 
remember that it does not take in breath through 
its mouth, so it can go on eating all the time. 
If you had not disturbed it, it would have crept 
on from plant to i3lant across the field, doing 
nothing but eat for three years. It goes down 
deeper in the ground in winter to keep "warm 
during the frosty weather. 

At last in the autumn of the third year it draws 
itself together (4, p. 30), and leaves off eating for 
nearly eight months. If you can find one at this 



time you will be able to see the parts of the real 
beetle crumpled up under the clear skin, and for 
the last few months it will be a full-grown sleeping 
cockchafer. 

Then, when tlie warm summer comes, it crawls 
up above ground and flies into the trees, eating 
their leaves as greedily as it ate their roots while 
it was a grub. This is the time to catch and kill 
them, for they only live about a month, and mean- 
while the mother cockchafer lays the eggs which 
will hatch into grubs. 

You will be surprised to see how different the 
beetle is from the white grub you found under- 
ground. It is now a flying insect, about half an 
inch long, with brown powdery wing-cases, covering 
a pair of transparent wings. Its hind-body, or 
abdomen, ends in a fine point, and on its head 
it carries a pair of feelers tipped with broad folds 
like a half-open fan. 

These folds are very handsome in the male 
Chafer (1, p. 30), but much smaller in the female 
(2), and by this you may know the mother which 
will lay the eggs. You must catch and kill these 
last if you want to save your crops, and the most 
merciful way to do this is to drop them into boiling 
water. A crushed beetle is a long time dying, but 
boiling water kills them at once. 

You will find that they rest in the daytime on 
favourite trees, and, if you spread a cloth under- 
neath, you may beat the boughs and so catch a 
good many. Farmers use gas-lime and other dress- 
ings to kill the grubs in the ground. 



Another very mischievous creature is the young 
of the Skipjack or Click-beetle (5, Plate, p. 30). All 
children know these little beetles, though perhaps 
you may not know their name. They are narrow 
and flat, about half an inch long, with very short 
legs. The most common one in England has 
reddish wing-cases, striped with long furrows, and 
a black head and thorax. Boys love to pick them 
up, and turn them on their backs, for they bend 
themselves up in the middle so as to rest on their 
head and tail. Then with a sudden jerk and a click 
they straighten themselves, so that their back hits 
your hand and sends them up in the air, and they 
come down the right way up. Sometimes they fall 
again on their backs, then they rest a little and 
begin again. 

These amusing little creatures are very destruc- 
tive when they are grubs, for the iviretcorms we 
know so well are the young of the Click-beetle. If 
you find a wireworm and look at it carefully you 
will see that it is not a worm, but has the six legs 
on the rings behind its head, by which you kno\\" 
that it is an insect. Wireworms feed on the roots 
of most plants. They are long and narrow like a 
piece of wire, and are generally of a reddish yellow 
colour, and have very tough skins. 

The Click-beetle lays her eggs in meadows, and 
among the roots of plants, and the wireworm when 
it is hatched often feeds for five years before turn- 
ing into a beetle. Therefore Click-beetles must be 
desti'oyed, and salt and lime sprinkled on the earth 
to kill the grubs. 




Unfortunately the pretty little "Weevil-bt^etles 
are also very destructive. We read in Book I. 
about the Nut-weevil, and almost every plant and 
tree has some weevil which attacks it. There i;- 
the weevil of the apple-blossom (4), the Pea-weevil 
(1 and 2), the Bean-weevil (3), the Furze-weevil, the 
Vine-weevil, and many others. They all begin life 




as little soft maggots with no true legs, but only 
cushion feet, and Avith horny heads and sharp jaws. 

You may know the full-grown weevils by their 
prominent snouts, sometimes broad and sometimes 
long. They are beautiful little creatures with 
polished wings which shine like jewels, and bright 
eyes ; but as grubs they destroy the flowers, fruits, 
and green shoots everywhere. 

Some of the most curious are the Stem-boring 
weevils. They have long snouts and very sharp 




jaws, and their feet have hairy pads underneath 
with sharp hooks at the end, so that they can 
cHng firmly to smooth stems. If you search on 
the poplar tree in summer you may find a lovely 
Stem-borer with shining green wings and red 
eyes; and on the fruit trees of the orchard you 
are almost sure to find the Steel-blue weevil which 
lays her eggs in their shoots. 

When the mother stem-borer wants to lay, she 
bores a hole in a young shoot with her snout and 
forces an egg into it. When she has laid several 
in this way, she sets to work to cut off the shoot 
with her sharp jaws. This often takes her some 
weeks, and if you see the hanging shoot and burn 
it you will destroy the grubs. But at last, when it 
hangs by only a thread of bark, she weighs it down, 
and it falls to the ground, where the grub feeds 
in peace when it is hatched. 

Try to find Cockchafers — male, female, and grub. Bring in 
a Click-beetle and a Wireworm. Find as many weevils as 
you can ; and twigs, flowers, and fruit with grubs in them. 




We cannot help destroying some beetles when- 
there are so many that they eat our crops. But 
it is pleasant to know that there are others which 
do us so much good that we need not wage war 
upon them. 

The Tiger-beetles (1, Plate, p. 36), for example, 
are very hungry creatures ; but, as they feed on 


other insects, they destroy the weevil and cock- 
chafer grubs, wireworms and caterpillars, and so 
save our plants. Their name is given to them 
because they are so fierce and cunning. They are 
not very large — our common tiger-beetle is not 
more than three-quarters of an inch in length — 
but their long slender legs are very strong, and 
they can fly very fast. 

There are always plenty running about in the 
hot sun across dry, dusty fields or commons in 
summer. Their wing-cases are a beautiful shining 
green colour shot with copper, and dotted with 
five yellow spots. They run very gracefully, and 
so fast that you will find it difficult to catch one. 
Just as you think you have it, it will suddenly 
open its wing-cases, spread its delicate transparent; 
wings, and be off almost before you can see it go. 

But if you can catch it, you will see that it has 
large eyes standing out on each side of its head 
and tAvo sharp jagged jaws for tearing its prey, 
while the lower ones are covered with stiff bristles 
which help to hold it. 

And now you must look for its grub, which is 
a very curious creature. The best way to find it 
is to go to some soft part of a sandy field where 
you have seen the Tiger-beetles running about. 
Then look at any small holes in the sand, and 
try to find one which leads to a tunnel in the 
ground. The grub of the Tiger-beetle sits at the 
mouth of this tunnel to catch insects as they pass- 
It will disappear as soon as you come near, but if 
you put a blade of grass into the hole and shake 



it, the grub will grasp the blade, and you can pull it 
out. 

Then you can see the tools it uses. It is a 
long soft white grub with a horny head, and jaws 
like sickles, and, besides its six brown spiny feet, 
it has two soft humps on its back with little hooks 
on them. As soon as this grub is hatched in the 
ground, it scoops a tunnel in the soft sand with 
its spiny legs, and pulls itself up to the top, holding 
on by its legs and the hooks on its back. Its head 
just fills the hole, and as it is a poor weakly 
creature and cannot move fast, it keeps quiet till 
some insect passes, and then darts its head out and 
pulls its victim down. ..If you have the patience 
to find some of these tunnels, and sit still and 
watch, you may see the grub catch its prey. 

The Rove or Cocktail-beetles (2, p. 36), which 
we found in the first lesson, are very useful in 
eating insects, though they are not beautiful. But 
the Ground-beetles, which have only very small 
wings under their wing cases, and seldom fly, are 
the best hunters. You may sometimes see a good- 
sized beetle with long legs running along through 
the grass. Its body is very dark, shaded with red 
and violet. This is the Violet Ground-beetle, and 
it is hunting for grubs and wire worms. 

There are some very curious beetles not difficult 
to find which will interest you. These are the 
Sexton, or Burying-beetles. When you see a dead 
mouse or bird lying in some part of the field or 
garden, pick it up quietly. If it has been there a 
few days it will already have a bad smell, and you 



are almost sure to find underneath it two or more 
beetles with thick bodies and strong legs. They are 
generally black with red feelers, and two light red 
bands on their abdomen. These are Sexton-beetles 
(3, p. 36), which have scented the dead body and 
flown, often for some distance, to bury it. 

They scrape away the soft ground underneath, 
till the body sinks down, and then they drag the 
earth over it. Why do you think they do this ? 
Because the mother beetle wants to lay her eggs 
there that the grubs may feed on the flesh. She 
does this as soon as the animal is buried, and in 
a few days the grubs are hatched. They are 
narrow, and each has six legs and a number of 
spines along its back. With these it wriggles 
through the flesh, and eats away till it buries itself 
in the ground and turns into a beetle. 

A great many beetles are useful to us by eating 
dead and living animals. Among these are the 
little black shining Mimic-beetles, which draw up 
their legs and pretend to be dead %vhen they are 
touched, and the Glow-worms, which shine sc 
brightly in the lanes in the summer nights. 

A good gardener who sees a glow-worm in a 
hedge will always pick it up gently, and put it in 
his garden when he has the chance. For the young 
of the glow-worm is a soft grub (3, p. 40), which 
works its way into the shells of small snails and 
feeds upon them. 

If you find a dry snail-shell with a white grub 
in it, it will most likely be the grub of the glow- 
worm. You may know it by a tuft of white threads 






on its tail, which it uses to brush off the sHme of 
the snail from its back. 

When they are full-grown you will find the 
mother glow-worm (1) very easily at night, because 









she gives out such a bright light. She has no 
wings, and you might take her for a slug if you 
did not notice her six little legs. The male glow- 
Avorm (2) has two spots of light near his tail. But 
he is not so bright hs the fei-iale. He has long 



soft "wing-cases and broad wings, with which he 
often flies into a lightf^d room w^hen the window 
is left open. 

The last useful beetle w^e can mention is the 
little Ladybird. She feeds all her life long on the 
plant bugs and aphides which destroy our plants. 
Wherever there are plant-lice, there the ladybird 
lays a bunch of yellow eggs and, wdien they are 
hatched, the long dark grubs clamber vij) the plant 
stalks and poke the lice into their mouths with 
their front feet. After a time each one glues its 
tail to a leaf and hangs till it becomes a ladybird, 
and then it flies away to feed on plant-lice on some 
other bush and to laj' more eggs. 

Bring in a Tiger-beetle, and try to find its grub. Search for 
Sexton-beetles under dead animals. Bring in a Mimic-beetle. 
Find a male and female glow-worm. Look for the grub of the 
Ladybird. 



"We all like Butterflies because they are pretty, 
and Bees because they give us honey. But no one 
likes Wasps, for w^e are always afraid that they 
w^ll sting, and they spoil our garden fruit. Yet 
w^asps are very industrious and interesting. They 
act as scavengers, eating otfal, raw^ meat, and 
insects, and they never sting unless they are 
frightened. You may be stung by pressing a 
wasp without knowing it. But people are very 
silly who flap them, and keep dodging about when 



they are near, for if you sit qiiite still they Tvill 
not hurt you. 

We are obliged to kill wasps, or we should be 
overrun by them and have no fruit, and the best 
way is to keep a good look out in the spring and 
early summer. The few big ones ^vhich come 
out then are queen wasps, or mothers, and each 
one will found a nest. It is more merciful to 
kill these, than to have to take nests in the summer, 
when there may be as many as 3,000 or 4,000 in 
each. Most boys have seen a wasps' nest dug out at 
night, but perhaps you have never looked at one 
carefully. Let us see how it is made. 

When the queen-wasp comes out from under 
the moss or grass, w^here she has spent the winter, 
she looks out for a hole in the ground, left perhaps 
by a mouse or a mole. Creeping into it, she makes 
it larger by biting the earth and kicking it out 
with her hind feet. Then she flies away and 
scrapes small pieces of fibre off the trees and 
plants. You may sometimes see her scraping 
window frames or posts with her ja^vs^s. She is 
getting shreds of wood. With these she goes back 
to the hole, and works them up, with some gluey 
matter from her mouth, into a kind of greyish 
paper or cardboard. 

Before it hardens she plasters this into the top 
of the hole, making a thick lump, which she glues 
to the roots of plants. Then she starts afresh for 
more fibre, and with it builds a few cells under 
the lump. 

She lays an egg in each, and tlien go'^s ou making 





more paj)er and more cells. In about eight days 
the first eggs are hatched into legless grubs, and 
she feeds them with honey and insects, still going 
on with her work. In about three weeks Cie grubs 





spin their cocoons, and in another week they come 
out as working wasps. After that, some come out 
almost every day, and the queen-wasp leaves them 
to do the work of building the nest and feeding 
the grubs, while she only lays eggs. 




They not only build cells, they also cover the 
nest with a papery dome of several layers, which 
hangs like an open umbrella from the lump at 
the top. When they have finished one comb it 
is like a round plate, and is smooth above, with 
a great number of cells underneath, all opening 
downwards. 

The wasps then make several gluey pillars under 
this comb to hold up a new one below which they 
form in the same way as the first. So they go on 
till August, when there may be fifteen or sixteen 
flat round plates one below the other, joined by a 
number of pillars. Then they draw the papery 





dome in at the bottom so that the whole nest is 
a round or oval-shaped ball. As wasps do not 
store honey, these combs are only cells for grubs. 
The papery covering prevents the wet soaking in 
from the bank. 

In August they build larger cells, out of which 
come males or drones which have longer antennae 
than the workers and queen-wasps. These queens 
are larger than either the males or workers. They 



soon fly out of the nest and pair with the drones 
and as winter comes on the wasps kill any grubs 
which remain, and, growing sleepy and dull, die 
themselves, leaving only the queen -wasps to 
sleep till next spring. Then if you know where 
there is an old nest you can dig it carefully out 
and see the long tunnel in the bank, along which 
the wasps went in, so that no one might know 
where their nest was. 

Some wasps build under the roofs of houses, 
especially the large wasps called Hornets, unless 
they choose the old trunk of a tree. If you look 
in a wood you may sometimes find the nest of the 
Wood-wasp hanging under the bough of a tree, 
though you would scarcely notice it unless you 
follow a Wood-wasp home. They are built like 
the other nests, only they have a thick papery 
column down the middle. 

Besides the connnon wasps there are a great 
many smaller kinds, some of which you may find. 
They are very interesting, because they carry 
insects into a hole and bury them with their eggs, 
so that the young grub may have food when it 
is hatched. 

There is a pretty little wasp, generally called 
the Wall- wasp (1, p. 45), which you may see 
in June or July biting the mortar in the garden 
wall or making holes in a sandy bank. It is smaller 
and blacker than the common wasp, and has a 
few bright yellow bands on its hind body. It 
scoops out a tunnel in the mortar and leaves the 
pieces sticking round the hole. Then after going 

in to see that all is right it comes out and flies 
away, coming back presently with a small green 
caterpillar. It carries this in and goes off for 
another, and so it goes on till it has brought about 
fifteen or twenty. 

If you dig out the mortar along the w^all, so 
as to open this tunnel, you ^vill find at the end an 
egg hanging by a thread. The wasp put the egg 
there before she went for the first caterpillar. 
Between this egg and the hole the fifteen little 
caterpillars will be lying curled up one beyond 
the other. The curious thing is that they are not 
dead. The wasp has only stupefied them with 
her sting so that they do not try to escape. If 
you do not break into the nest she ^\411 stop the 
hole up with the pieces of inortar round the edge 
and leave it. Then when the grub has eaten the 
caterpillars and turned into a wasp it will bite 
its way out. 

Then you may find some of the Sand-wasps 
(2, p. 45), which dig so many holes in the sand- 
banks on heaths, or in the lanes and gardens, 
wherever it is sunny and warm. One of these, 
called the Hairy Sand-wasp, piits Spiders in her 
hole for the grub to eat. She is orange coloured, 
with a black head and straggling legs. But she 
is very strong and can drag a big spider to 
her den. 

I have not room to tell you more of these 
curious wasps, some of which fill their nests with 
beetles, others with crickets. But now you know 
about them you will follow any you see and watch 



their habits for yourself, which is much the best 

way. 

Find an old wasps' nest and try to make a drawing of it. 
Notice the shape of the conmioii wasp and compare it with 
any others you find. Notice paiticularly the difference in the 
thread joining the abdomen to the thorax. 



We all know the Hive-bee well, but i^erhaps you 
have not noticed that there are other kinds of bees 
flying in the garden. Some of these are about the 
same size as the hive-bee ; some are much smaller, 
and they are differently marked. 

Most of these are solitary bees. There are no 
neuters among them, only niales and females 
living in pairs. Others live in great numbers in 
the holes of sandy banks, but do not work together. 

If you have ivy. growing on your cottage, you 
must often have noticed small bees flitting in and 
out of the flowers. Among these there will most 
likely be one, about half an inch long, with a black 
body covered 'with a taAvny do^vn. She will have 
two little horns on her head, and is called the " Two- 
horned Osmia" (1, riate, p. 51). 

If you can watch one and follow her, you may 
see her fly into some old rotten post, or tree-stump. 
Then if you cut into the post near the hole you \\ ill 
find a curious nest. For this bee bores a lon<r 
tunnel and builds a waxen cell at the bottom. Here 
she lays an egg and puts round it bee-bread, made 
of pollen and honey from the flcjwers. She has no 



groove in her leg like the hive-bee, so she carries the 
sticky pollen in the thick hairs under her body, and 
scrapes it of£ with a comb on her feet. 

When she has laid the egg and put in food, she 
seals the cell with wax, and begins another on the 
top of it. So she goes on till she has filled the 
tunnel. 

But how is the bottom bee to get out '? Her 
egg was laid first and she has eight or ten others on 
the top of her. Strange to say they wait for each 
other. They all become perfect bees about the same 
time, and, if one below is ready sooner than the 
others, she eats through the cover of her cell and 
tries to push past her neighbour. But if the one 
above is so big that the bee cannot get by without 
hurting her, she waits patiently till all are ready. 

Another little bee which you may often find is 
the Sleeper bee (2, p. 51), so-called because she 
often sleeps in the blossoms of -flowers, where you 
may find her. She is thin and black with a square 
head and strong jaws, and she has a little yellow 
down on her hind body or abdomen. She too 
burrows in posts, but very often she makes her 
nest inside a large stra^v. In olden days, when 
cottages were thatched, hundreds of these bees 
would build in the larger straws of the thatch, and 
might be heard buzzing abovit the roof. 

Then there is another bee which you cannot 
help finding. This is the Leaf-cutting bee (3, 
p. 51). Have you not seen the leaves of rose-trees 
with pieces like a half-moon cut out of their edge ? 
If you watch you may see a bee doing this work. 




She is about the same size as a hive-bee, but 
rather stouter, and her bod}'^ is black with soft bro^vn 
hairs over it. She clings to the leaf and turns 
round in a circle biting 
as she goes. Just before 
she has finished she 
opens her ^vings and so 
balances herself in the 
air. Then, when the 
last bite is made, she 
flies off with the piece 
of leaf carried be- 
tween her feet and her 
jaws. 

She goes to a hole in 
the ground, which is 
straight down for a little 
way, and then turns, and 
runs along under the sur- 
face. Here she packs the 
leaf in and goes back for 
more. With several 
pieces she makes a little 
thimble, in which she lays 
an egg, with food round 
it, and closes it with 
three or four i-ound 
pieces. Then she begins another thimble, pushing 
it in, so that it fits a little way into the last one. 
In this way she builds about seven cells, each with 
its egg and bee-bread, for the grubs to feed on till 
they turn into bees. Though you will easily see 





the bees cutting the leaves, you will not so easily 
find their tunnels, for they fill in the earth again at 
the top, so that the entrance cannot be seen. The 
best way is to follow a bee Avhich has been cutting 
^ a leaf, but she is so quick you will 
have to be quick too. Sometimes she 
makes her hole in a willow tree 
when the wood is soft. 

There is another Osmia "which 

makes its nest in the stem of the 

 bramble. It hollows out 

the pith and covers the 
cells with it. When you 
see a blackberry stalk with 
the end bitten off, you may 
as well cut dowai a little way 
with your knife and see if 
there is a tunnel in it, ^vith 
bee-cells, or wasp-cells, in- 
side. 

Another very curious 
bee, called the Carder bee 
(4, p. 51), lines its tunnel 
with fluffy hairs and 
cotton stripped off plants. 
You will remember that 
the ragged robin and wild 
campion have their stems covered with thick down 
The " Carder bees " strip this flviff off the plants, roR 
it up in a ball, and fly away with it to their nests in 
the ground, where they use it to make their cells. 
Solitary bees do not store honey for the wintei* 



like the hive bees. They die off in the autumn, all 
except some mothers, which creep into holes and 
sleep till the spring, when they make their nests and 
lay their eggs. 

There are so many of them that I cannot 
tell you about them all. You must watch for your- 
selves, and you will soon learn to notice the little 
holes in the trees and the ground, and in some of 
them you are sure to find curious creatures. 

Notice different kinds of solitary bees, and try to find their 
tunnels in the spring. 


Hive bees are so much at home in our gardens, 
that I am afraid most people think they know all 
about them, and take very little notice of them. 
This is unfortunate, because bee-keeping is very in- 
teresting, and many more cottagers might make 
money by bees, and at the same time become really 
fond of these busy little insects. 

When all the bees in the hive had to be killed 
each time the honeycombs were taken, we could not 
get fond of our bees. But now, even cottagers can 
have boxes and glasses on the top of their hives^so 
as to take the combs without destroying the little 
friends who fill them for us. 

The hive-bee is a wonderful insect. She has 
three pairs of legs, and two pairs of wings just like 
a Wasp. But the hind pair of legs is longer than 
the others, and she has a groove in each of them 



 



which makes a kind of basket, into which she 
packs pollen from the flowers, and carries it home 
to make bee-bread for her grubs. You may often 
see a bee going into a hive with both its hind legs 
heavily laden with sticky f)ollen. It is puzzling at 
first to guess how she gets it into the basket, but, 
if you look lower down her leg, you ^\'ill see that 
it is covered with hairs which form a small brush. 
When she comes out of a flo^ver her hairy body 
is covered with pollen-dust, 
and she brushes it off with 
one leg, making it into a little 
lump, which she packs into 
the basket of the other leg. 

Her mouth is a most use- 
ful tool for getting honey. 
When she is not sucking, 
her trunk is drawn in under 
her strong jaws. But ^^hen 
she is feeling for honey, this trunk, which is really 
a long under lip with a hairy tongue inside it, is 
thrust into the flo^ver and brings back the honey, 
which she passes down her throat into a honey- 
bag, or first stomach. 

Then she flies back to the hive. There other 
bees take the pollen out of her basket as she goes 
in, and she passes on to the cells, and pours into 
them the honey from her throat. Some of this 
honey is used to feed the young bee-grubs, and the 
rest to fill the honey-combs for the winter. 

Sometimes, however, the bee does not pour out 
the honey, but goes to the top of the hive, and 



hangs quietly by her front feet. After about four 
and twenty hours the honey is digested in her 
stomach, and part of it forms bees-wax, which 
oozes out under her body into eight little pockets. 
Then she goes down into the hive, and picks this 
wax out with her strong jaws, moistens it with her 
tongue into a kind of paste, and uses it to build the 
cells of the comb. 

It is when the bees are out getting honey and 
pollen that they are so use- 
ful to the gardener. You 
will remember that the vege 
table marrows cannot grow 
unless the bees carry pollen 
from one flo^ver to another. 
Our plants have better flowers 
and our fruit trees bear better 
fruit because the bees fly to bee hanging and showfno 


and iro and carry j)ollen from her body. 
one to another. 

But if the bee carried it haphazard from one 
kind of flower to another it would be of very little 
use, for strange pollen would not make the seeds 
grow. Watch a bee and you will find that she very 
seldom visits more than one kind of flower on the 
same journey. She will fly from one bed of violets 
to another, or from apple-tree to apple-tree. But 
she will not in one journej^ go from an apple-tr^e 
to a pear-tree, nor from a violet to a primrose. 
We do not know an hy she does this, but it is very 
useful to us, and all gardeners should encourage 
bees in their garden. 








And now, if you want to keep bees, you must 
learn a few simple things. You must always be 
very gentle and quiet with them. They will soon 
learn to know you, and to understand that you 

are not afraid of them. 

If you have a straw hive 
it sliould measure about six- 
teen to eighteen inches across, 
be about eight or nine inches 
high, and flat on the top, with 
a hole in it in which a plug 
is fixed. Put this hive in a 
warm sheltered part of the 
garden on a wooden bench 
about fifteen inches from the 
ground. Then in May buy 
a swarm of bees which has 
just come out from a neigh- 
bour's hive. Smear your 
own hive inside with balm 
and sugar, and hold it under 
the bough on which the 
swarm hangs. Shake the 

bough gently till the bees tall 
in. Turn the hive do^vn on 
to a piece of wood, and in 
the evening carry it gently to your garden. The 
next morning the bees will be busily at work. 
The big heavy drones will wander about idly, but 
the smaller working bees will go out and collect 
honey, hang up in the hive till they have wax in 
their pockets (see p. 57), and begin to build the coml> 






If your swarm was the first to leave the hive 
the old queen bee, which was in the middle, will 
soon begin to lay eggs in the cells — about 200 
a day. But a second swarm is led by a young 
queen, and she will fly out with the drones before 
she settles down in the hive. 

Now the w^orking bees will be very busy. In 
two or three days the first eggs are hatched, and 
the nursing bees feed the grubs with honey and 
pollen which the other bees bring in. In about 







five or six days they seal up the mouth of each 
cell, and the bee-grub spins its silken cocoon, in 
which it turns into a bee in ten days more. Then 
it comes out and works w^ith the rest. 

The empty cell will soon be fillp'^ with honey; 
but it "will be brown, not white and clean like the 
"virgin" honey which is put into new cells. After 
about six weeks the queen lays some eggs in 
larger cells, out of which come males or drones. 
Then about every three days she lays an egg in a 
cell like a thimble, on the edge of the comb. The 





grub in this is fed with special food, and becomes a 
queen-bee. 

Unless you have a hive ^vith a glass ^vindow in 
it you cannot see all this going on. But about the 
beginning of June you may expect that the hive 
is getting full of combs and bees. Then is the time 
to take out the plug at the top, and put on a bell- 
glass, or a box of ^vooden sections (see p. 58). In 
these the bees will make comb which you can take 
away. You must pvit in a small piece of comb to 
tempt the bees to build, and then you must put a 
straw cover or some old cloths over the whole to 
keep it warm and dry and dark. 

In about a month you will find this upper hive 
full of honey-comb sealed up in the cells. You 
can take it oif with a cloth dipped in weak 
Condy's Fluid, for the bees do not like this, and 
they "will not come near you. These sections of 
honeycomb Tvill be pure and clear, and you can 
take them away without killing a single bee. 

In July you may get one or more new swarms, 
and then when September comes you must take 
off the top and cork up the hive for the winter. 
But remember that you have taken a great part of 
the bees' store of food and you must feed them 
with honey and sugar during the cold weather. 

Examine three bees — male, female and neuter. Examine 
trunk and hind legs of the working bee. Get a piece of 
brown honey-comb with remains of bee-bread and young 
bees. Compare it with pure honey-comb. AVatch a bee among 
the flowers. Find honey-comb with thimble cells on the edge. 



There are a number of small flying insects Avhicli 
belong to the same family as the Bees and Wasps, 
such as the Saw-flies, which destroy our vegetables, 
and the Gall-flies which make those curious galls 
we found on the oak-tree and other trees. But 
though we call these " flies " you may always know 
them from true flies because they have four wings, 
while all real flies have only two. 

Try to collect as many two-winged flies as you 
can. There will be the common House-fly, the 
Blue-bottle or Blow-fly, Gnats, Midges, Daddy-long- 
legs, Horse-flies, and many others. 

The House-fly and the Blue-bottle are both 
very useful in their right place, for they eat decay- 
ing matter and dead animals. But they do grenu 
harm if we allow them to multiply in the wrong 
place. 

If you nave a great number of flies in your 
house you may be sure that there is dirt some- 
where, for the House-fly lays her eggs in dung- 
heaps, dust-heaps, or on any dirt she can find 
behind a shutter or door, or in an unsT\'ept cornei-. 

She lays about 150 at a time, and in a day or two 
the little legless grubs are hatched, and feed on 
the dirt. In four or five days they leave ott' eating 
and rest in their grub-skin, which grows hard and 
brown. Then in summer they come out as full- 
grown flies in about a week. But in winter- the 
hard pupa often lies for months, and people who 






do not clean their house thorovighly in autumn 
are Kkely to have a plague of flies next year. 

The Blue-bottle or Blow-fly (1, p. 61) lays her eggs 
(a) on meat of any kind, or on the bodies of decaying 
animals. When her grubs are hatched they are a^ ery 
useful in ridding us of bad-smelling creatures, for 
they give out a kind of liquid which makes the flesh 
decay more quickly so that they may eat it. 

All boys know " gentils " 
(b) used for fishing. These are 
the maggots of the Blue-bottle, 
and when they have done 
feeding they grow soft inside 
and dra^v themselves vip into 
an egg-shape. Then they give 
out a liquid which hardens 
their skin into a shiny reddish- 
brown case (c). Inside this the 
Blue-bottle forms, and ther 
pushes its head out between 
two little lids at the top of the 
cocoon. 
If you catch a Blue-bottle and put it under a 
bell-glass with a few grains of sugar you may 
watch it put out its trunk and feed. You will see 
that it turns and twists the sugar as if it were 
playing with it. But all the time it is wetti^iig 
it with some liquid Avhich it sends down its trunk 
so as to work the hard lump into syrup which it 
can suck up. If you press the thorax of a Blue- 
bottle very gently with your finger and tliumlj 
it will put out its trunk and you can see the 





thick lips at the end with the sucker (a) between 
them. But you will want a magnifying glass or 
a microscope to see a little lancet (/) %vhich it has 
inside its trunk, and which it uses to j)ierce the 
skins of fruits, when it wants to suck their juice. 

There are two kinds of flies which 
are much more hurtful than the 
common fly or the blue-bottle. These 
are the Gad-flies and the Bot-flies. 
You know one of tlie small Gad-flies 
quite well, for it drops on our hands, 
or our neck, ^vhen we are sitting out 
of doors, and lets us know that it is 
there, by giving a sharp bite to suck 
our blood. We call it the Horse-fly 
because it teases the horses so much 
in summer; but there are man j^ others 
Ave do not know so well. The largest 
English Gad-fly (4, p. 61) is about an 
inch long. 

The Bot-flies are more dangerous 
than the Gad-flies, for instead of 
biting with their mouths they prick with a sharp 
tube at the end of their abdomen, so as to lay 
their eggs under the skin of an animal. The 
Bot-fly or Warble-fly of the ox (2, p. 61) looks 
<'ery like a humble bee, only she has two wing?' 
instead of four. She has a pointed tube at the 
end of her body, with w^hich she pricks the skin 
of the ox, and lays her eggs underneath it. In 
a short time the eggs hatcli, and the maggot 
irritates the flesh so much that large lumps are 




seen on the side or back of the animal. If the 
farmer does not press out the maggots from 
these himps, and put a proper dressing on them, 
the beef of the ox will be poor and bad, and no 
feeding will make it any better. When the maggot 
is full-grown it drops to the ground to make its 
change. 

The horse Bot-fly (3, p. 61) does not put her eggs 
under the skin, but sticks them, with a little slime 
from her mouth, to the hairs of the horse on his 
shoulder or under the knee. 

When the egg is ready to break, the warmth of 
the horse's tongue, as he licks himself, makes it 
crack and the grub slips down the horse's throat 
to his stomach. There it feeds, and when it is full- 
gro^vn passes out with the dung. 

The way to check this grub is to keep the skin 
of the horse clean and the hair short. This Bot- 
fly is rather larger than the House-fly, with 
bright yellow markings and a very hairy body. 

I wonder how many grubs you know of those 
gnat-like flies, with thin feelers and legs, which 
fly in the fields and over the rivers. We read 
about the gnat in Book II., but you should know 
the midges, which attack "v\^heat and other grain. 
! The Wheat-midge is a little orange yellow fly, 
about the size of a A^ery small gnat. Early on a 
June morning, when the wheat is in flower, you 
may shake these midges off the stalks and see them 
flying near the ground. The mothers have a 
sharp tube as thin as a hair, with ^vhich they 
lay their eggs in the ^vheat blossom. There they 




hatch into little red maggots, which feed on the 
grain and often destroy half a crop. 

You ought to know, too, the grubs of the 
Daddy-long-legs, which do so much harm to our 
crops. If you see a Daddy-long-legs clinging to 
a blade of grass she is most likely thrusting her 
egg-tube into the ground to lay her eggs. 

These hatch into legless brown grubs with 
strong jawp and a pair of short horns. Farmers 
call them • Leather Jackets," and you may find 
them when you are ploughing damp fields. Or you 
may find the hard pupa, which is shaped like a 
Daddy-long-legs with its wangs folded, its legs 
drawn up, and two horns on its head. It has 
spines on its abdomen, with which it will drag itself 
up when the fly wants to come out. 

The best way to get rid of these hurtful grubs 
is to plough the ground deeply and bury the eggs 
or maggots, so that they die, or cannot get to the 
surface, or to put a dressing of gas-lime or other 
insect-killer on the land. Starlings are very useful 
in pulling them out of the ground and eating them. 

Find grub and pupa of Blue-bottle. Examine a Blue- 
bottle—legs, body, and proboscis. Try to find House-fly eggs. 
Bi-ing in a Horse-fly. Try to find the Bot-flies of the ox and 
the horse. Find a Wheat-midge and its ^rub; also the grub 
and pupa of the Daddy-long-legs. 



All the insects about which we have been reading 
are different when they are young from what they are 




when full grown. But young Crickets and Grass- 
hoj)pers when they come out of the egg are much 
the same as when they are older, except that 
ohey are smaller and have no wings. They jump 
and eat and behave in the same way as their parents, 
and change their coats four or five times. Aftei- 
the last change you can see their wing-cases under- 
the skin, and, ^vhen this bursts, they spread their 
wings and fly. 

If you make a cage of wire gauze and put some 
young crickets in it, and feed them with damp leaves, 
you may see these changes. But do not try with 
a muslin cover, as a friend of mine did. For 
crickets have strong jaws and soon eat their way 
through. 

The little green Grasshoppers of the fields are 
easy to find, but the large green Grasshopper (see 
p. 71), is not so common. Still if you know where to 
look, in the nut-hedges and woods, you may often 
catch one, and it is a fine insect to examine. His 
head is well separated from his front body or thorax, 
and he has two very long feelers which lie back over 
his body. His jaws are very strong, and if you give 
him a leaf to eat, under a glass, j^ou can see how 
they move sideways to cut the food, and the 
upper and lower lips, through which he passes it 
to his chewing jaws inside. 

If you have caught a female, she will have a 
curious long tube or egg-layer at the end of her 
Taody, which she forces into the ground, to lay her 
eggs, and this will show you the way that other 
Bmaller insects do it. 





And now you will want to know how a grass- 
hopper chirps, for you will remember that no 
insect can make any noise with its mouth. Put 
your finger gently along, under the left front wing 
of the great green Grasshopper, close to where it is 
joined to the body. You m ill feel that it is rough 
like a file. The grasshopper rubs this file against 
the edge of the other wing, and makes the rasjaing 
noise. 

The small green Grasshopper (2, p. 71), which 
has short feelers standing forward from his head, 
makes his chirping noise in another way. He 
has a file on the inside of his hind leg, which he 
rubs against the top of his wing. This little grass- 
hopper is really a small locust, like those which fly 
in swarms over Europe, eating every green thing 
which comes in their way. Fortunately for us, 
though he eats very greedily, our little friend is not 
so destructive as they are. Locusts have no egg 
laying tube ; they drop their eggs into the loose 
sarth and cover them up. 

Crickets are very like grasshoppers, and make 
their chirping by rubbing their wings together. 
The females have long egg-laying tubes, as you 
will see if you can catch a moi;iier cricket in the 
kitchen. She lays her eggs behind the oven or near 
the fireplace, where they will hatch all the year 
round in the warmth. 

Grasslioppers and crickets do not chirp to please 
us, they are calling to each other. Therefore they 
must be able to hear. Where do you expect to find 
their ears ? I arn sure vou will never guess. 







Look under the wing of the small grasshopper 
on the first ring of his abdomen, the one behind his 
hind leg. There, a little above his breathing holes, 
you will see a very small hole. This has a thin skin 
over it, and it is his ear. The great grasshopper 
has his ear in a still more curiovis place, on his front 
leg below his knee (e, p. 70). 

I expect you will know the Field-cricket (3, p. 71), 
for though it is very timid, and seldom comes out in 

the day, yet if you 
find out where it lives, 
by its chirp, and poke 
a blade of grass down 
the cracks of the 
earth, it is sure to 
seize it, and you 
can draw it out. 
Many country 
children get them in this way. A Field-cricket is 
rather larger than the House-cricket ; his body is 
more yellow, and his chirp much more shrill. He is 
very useful in the garden, for he feeds on insects 
as well as plants, sitting outside his hole at night 
to catch them. But by day he is always in the 
ground, where the young ones remain all the 
winter till they get their wings. 

I wonder if you have ever found a Mole-cricket ? 
There are plenty in England in sandy ground, es- 
pecially in damp fields, and on the banks of canals 
and rivers. But they do not live in all parts of 
*;he country, and they are very shy, only coming 
out at night. Tliey make a strange croaking cry, 




and by it you may know that there are some in 
your neighbourhood. Then you must look along 
the river-bank or in a sandy and damp part of the 
garden, and if you can see ridges of earth thrown 
up, most likely the Mole-cricket will be working 
underneath. 

He is a very curious insect, about half an inch 
long, with a 
small head and 
long feelers, a 
very broad 
thorax, and 
thick flat front 
legs, ending in 
large feet like 
a mole, with 
sharp black 
claws. With 
these he digs his 
way through 
the earth, just 
as the mole 
does, and his 
body is covered 

with soft hairs, brown above and yellow beneath, to 
keep off the damj) earth. He does great mischief 
if he gets into a garden, for he tunnels along, eating 
the roots and stems of the plants. The mother 
Mole-cricket has no egg-laying tube, for she does 
not want it underground. She lays about 200 eggs 
in a chamber at the end of the run, and the young 
Mole-crickets live there for two or thre<^ ^^ears 




before they get their wings. If you can find a 
nest, and get a few of the young ones, you may 
see their curious shape. 

There are two other straight-winged insects 
which you knoTV quite well. One is the Earwig, of 
which some silly people are afraid, though it does no 
harm to anyone. Its pincers are used to fold its long 
hind wings under its short wing-cases, and the only 
mischief it does is to eat our flowers. The mother 
earwig is very affectionate. She carries aw^ay her 
eggs if they are disturbed, and watches over her 
little ones till they are full-grown. 

The other straight-winged insect is the Cock- 
roach, which people call "black beetle." It is not 
a beetle, for it does not grow out of a grub, and it 
is not black but brown. The young are like the old 
ones, only smaller and without wings. The mother 
cockroach never has any wings. She carries her 
eggs in a curious way at the end of her body in a 
case like a purse, and hides it behind the oven, or 
under the boards, just before the eggs are hatched. 
These cases are brown, horny, and shaped something 
like a bean. Inside there are about sixteen eggs, 
neatly arranged in two rows like peas in a pod. 
Cockroaches are very disagreeable and destructive 
insects. They eat everything they can get, and have 
a very repulsive smell. 

Try to find the different kinds of grasshopper and cricket, 
both full grown and before they have their wings. Examine 
the wings of an earwig. Find the egg-cases of the cocki'oach. 

 
Ants are the most intelligent of all insects. We 
learnt a little about the home of the Hill-ant in 
Book I., to which you can look back for drawing!- 
of the male, female, and worker ants with their 
grubs and cocoons. 

Now we will look at some other ants, and learn 
about their ways. There are two very common 
kinds to be found in most 
gardens. One is red and the 
other black. They both build 
their homes underground, by 
clearing out the earth with i 
their jaws and feet, and so 
making galleries and cham- 
bers. There is generally a 
little rise in the ground, 
where they are at work, 
making a dome above the nest, but it is not so 
conspicuous as the hill of the Hill-ant. If you dig 
a deep hole on one side of a nest you will open 
the chambers and see the grubs inside them, and. 
if you do not make it too big, the busy ants will 
soon put it right again. 

Then you can take a few cocoons, and put them 
in a little earth under a glass so as to see the 
young ants come out. But do not take the grubs, 
unless you take some grown-up ants with them, for 
they cannot feed themselves. 

If you get a black and a red ant you will know 



them apart, not only by their colour, out because 
the black ant has one round knob (1, p. 75) in the 
thin part joining her hind body to her fore body, 
w^hile tlie red ant has two knobs (2, p. 75). By this 
we know that the red ant has a sting, and the 
black ant has none. All English ants which have 
two knobs to their abdomen can sting; but those 
with only one knob cannot (with one rare excep- 
tion). Those which have no sting attack their 
enemy with their strong jaws, and squirt out a 
strong acid over them. 

There is a little yellow ant which lives in our 
houses and eats our food. She has two knobs, and 
stings quite sharply. I once cut open a cake w^hich 
had been some days in the cupboard and found the 
middle full of these ants. They swarmed on my 
hand and made it tingle with their stings. This 
ant generally makes her home behind the fireplace. 

If you put your ants under a glass, and give them 
a piece of nut or bread to eat, you may see them 
use their outer jaws to scrape the surface, and their 
tiny tongue to lick off the juice or oil, while they pass 
the food to the inner jaws, just as the bees and 
wasps did. You may also see them pause to stroke 
their body with their front legs. Look closely at 
these and you will see a small spur on a joint a 
little way up the leg. This spvir has more than 
fifty fine teeth on it, and there are some coarse 
teeth on the leg itself. These are the ant's brush 
and comb. She scrapes herself with them, and then 
draws them through her outer jaws, or inandibles, 
to clean them. 



She has very small eyes, and always uses her 
antennae to find out anything she wants to 
know. These stand out in front of her curious 
flat head, and are very mysterious instruments. 
When ants want to talk to one another they touch 
their antennae, and in some strange way they can 
tell each other where to go and what to do. 

The Garden-ants live much more underground 
than the Hill-ants, but you may often see them 
sunning themselves in the garden, or cutting off 




blades of grass with their mandibles to line their 
nests, or tearing a spider or fly to pieces. They 
often seem to run hither and thither as if they 
did not know what they were doing, but if you 
watch you will And that each one has an object. 
Some are carrying things into the nest, others 
are climbing the stalks of the flowers to sip their 
honey. As these honey-laden ants go home, if they 
meet with an ant which has been doing other work 
and is hungry, the well-fed ant will squeeze honey 
out of her throat to feed her friend. For it seems to 
be a rule among ants that each one helps the other. 



And now you must watch day by day till you 
see a much more ^^onclerful thing. You will re- 
member that we saw in the first lesson little plant- 
lice called Aphides sucking juice out of the stalks 
of plants. But we did not notice that they have 
tw^o little horns at the end of their bodies. As 
they suck and suck they become too full, and the 
sweet juice often oozes out of these horns. You 
may see it standing in tiny drops on their tips. 

This juice is just what the ant loves, and you 
may be fortunate enough to see the garden-ant 
take it, because she brings the aphides and puts 
them on daisies near her nest. She goes up behind 
the aphis and strokes its sides with her antennae, 
so that it gives out a drop of honey from its horns. 

She has another her'? of these honey-cows 
safely hidden underground where you cannot see 
them. She carries them down into her galleries, 
and puts them on the roots of plants. There she 
takes care of them, just as she does of her own 
grubs, and keeps their eggs and young ones through 
the winter, ready for the next spring. In our cli- 
mate ants sleep through the winter, but in warmer 
countries they remain awake and store up food. 

When you are digging into the nest of a Garden- 
ant look very carefully at the roots you dig up, and 
you will most likely see some plant-lice on them. If 
you put them carefully back they will be none the 
worse, and the little ant will not have lost her 
honey-cows. 

There is a small yellow ant called the Meadow- 
ant, which lives in great numbers on heaths and 



meadows, and has no sting. She keeps nearly all 
her honey-cows underground, putting them on 
the roots of the grass. Sometimes when you ar€ 
ploughing up a field you may cut through one of 
these nests. If you do, stoj) a minute and watch 
the ants. Their first care will be for the ant-grubs 
and cocoons. But as soon as these are carried down 
you will see them fetching the little green plant-lice 
as carefully as if they were their own children. 

The Hill-ants do not bring their cows home. 
They visit them on the plants, and many battles 
between the ants of two nests begin because one 
colony has interfered with the other's cows. Then 
the working ants turn out of both nests and fall 
upon each other two and two, biting with their 
mandibles and standing on their hind legs, each 
trying to squirt formic acid over its enemy. These 
battles often go on for some days till one party is 
exhausted. 

The battles are fought, and the honey-cows are 
milked, by the working ants, of which there may 
be thousands in a large nest. The queen-ants do 
no work, beyond laying the eggs. There may be 
two or three queen-ants in a large nest, and they 
never quarrel like queen-bees. When they are 
laying eggs in the home they have no wings. But 
in the summer there will be a number of winged 
male and female ants growing up in the nest, and 
some warm day they fly out, and you may see 
them rising and falling in the air like gnats. 
Then they tumble helplessly to the ground and 
crawl about The m/^les are eaten by birds or die. 




None of them go back to the nest. Those of the 
females which are not killed have their wings pulled 
off by the workers, or pull them off themselves, and 
they go back to lay eggs, or join a new nest. 

Find any ants you can. Keep them a little, feeding them 
with honey and giving them some earth to build. Keep a few 
aphides on a plant to see the honey-drops. Examine an ant's 
nest by opening the side; put the aphides and cocoons back 
carefully. 




