
CONTENTS. 





INTRODUCTION, showing the Necessity of Education. 

Addressed to my Little Reader ... 1 

CHAP. I. Jack's Mode of satisfying his Curiosity- 

The Ant-Hill 9 

CHAP. II. The Dead Horse-Fly ... 18 

CHAP. III. Another Visit to the Ant-Hill. Honey- 
Dew .22 

CHAP. IV. A Story about Beetles ... 26 

CHAP. V. Spiders : how they make their Webs . 30 

CHAP. VI. Jack visits the Beehives ... 38 

CHAP. VII. The Bees 42 

CHAP. VIII. More about the Bees . ' *8 
CHAP. IX. More about Bees 




CHAP. X. Something worth knowing . 58 

CHAP. XI. About Butterflies . . . 66 
CHAP. XII. About Insects in general ... 74 

CHAP. XIII. About the Wren Family, and other 

Matters 79 

CHAP. XIV. About the Hen and her Chickens . 88 

CHAP. XV. The Poultry- Yard . . . .97 

CHAP. XVI. About Birds in general The Story of 

Dick and the Giant .. r M * j { ' 106 

CHAP. XVII. About Quadrupeds %'; . . 117 

CHAP. XVIII. Geology . >S. t . .124 

CHAP. XIX. About Poetry and other Things . 136 

CHAP. XX. About True Stories and Fictitious Sto- 
- ries, Fables, Fairies, &c. . . ..7?. 147 

CHAP. XXI. About Dwarfs, Giants, &c. . . .161 
CONCLUSION . . > r , . . 168 






INTRODUCTION. 

SHOWING THE NECESSITY OF EDUCATION, 
ADDRESSED TO MY LITTLE READER. 

ALTHOUGH I profess to deal in matters 
that may amuse my young friends, I have a 
constant desire that, while they are enter- 
tained, they shall be instructed. The only 
way to be happy really and truly happy 
is to be wise; and wisdom comes through 
teaching. I think I can make this very plain, 
if you will listen to me a few moments. 

You know there are such people as savages 
who roam wild in the woods, or dwell in 
wigwams, sitting upon the ground, and sleep- 
ing upon the skins of beasts ; who have no 



books, nor schools, nor churches ; who have 
never read the Bible ; who know nothing of 
Jesus Christ, nor of the ten commandments. 

Well, what makes the difference between 
these wild, savage people, and those who live 
in good houses, in towns and cities, and have 
all the comforts and conveniences of life? 
Knowledge makes the whole difference, and 
knowledge comes by education. Do my little 
readers know that without education they 
would be savages ? Yet it is really so. All 
are born alike the child of the savage, and 
the child of the Christian : one grows up a 
savage, because its father and mother do not 
send it to school, do not furnish it with books, 
do not teach it to read and to write; the other 
grows up a Christian, because it is educated. 
Education, therefore, makes us to differ. 

Now, what do you think of this ? Do you 
consider that all children who hate books 
and instruction are trying to be like little 
savages ? I hope none of my readers are so 
unreasonable. I hope they see that it is best 
for them to be Christians, and as far as pos- 
sible from the savage state. I think one 
thing is very clear : our good Father in hea- 





ven, whom we ought all to love and obey, did 
not intend us to be savages ; but he has pro- 
vided only one way to avoid it, and that is 
by education. He makes it our duty, there- 
fore, as well as our happiness, to seek for in- 
struction. 

This design of our Creator is very apparent 
when we compare man with animals. Birds 
and beasts do not go to school ; they are pro- 
vided with all needful knowledge by that 
power which we call instinct. A little chick- 
en, only a day old, will run about and pick 
up seeds, which lie scattered among the 
stones and dirt. How does the chicken know 
that seeds are made to eat, and that stones 
are not made to eat ? How does the chicken 
distinguish the wholesome and nutritious 
seed from the dirt and gravel? God has 
taught it God has given it a wonderful in- 
stinct, by which it is guided in the choice 
and discovery of its food. 

But the infant has no such instinct ; left 
to itself, it will pick up dirt, stones, pins 
anything that comes in its way and put all 
into its little mouth ! The child has to be 
taught everything by its parents or its nurse. 




It must be taught what is good and what is 
evil what to seek, and what to shun. 

The chicken runs about as soon as it is 
hatched ; the child must be taught first to 
creep, then to walk. The chicken, left to 
itself, though but a day old, will hide from 
the hawk that would devour it ; the child, if 
left to itself, would as soon go into the fire, 
the water, or the bear's mouth, as anywhere 
else. The chicken is guided by instinct 
the child by instruction. 

Thus it appears that, while instinct is the 
guide of the animal world, education is the 
instrument by which children are to reach 
their true destiny. God meant us to be edu- 
cated; and children who hate education, 
hate God's will and God's way ; they hate 
the road that leads to their own happiness. 
Think of that think that when you resist 
instruction, you resist the will of Providence, 
and sin against your own peace ! 

There is another particular in respect to 
the mode in which the natural wants of ani- 
mals are supplied, which may teach you the 
same lesson. They use no tools, no cooking 
utensils. The beaver is a natural architect, 




and his instinct not only teaches him the art 
of house-building,, but he has a set of tools 
ready furnished. He has sharp teeth, with 
which he cuts down trees, and divides them 
into proper lengths : thus his teeth answer 
both as hatchet and saw. So it is with the 
woodpecker ; he never learnt a trade, or paid 
a shilling for tools yet he knows how to 
chisel out his hole in a dry tree and his bill 
answers both as gouge and hammer. The 
spider has no shuttle or loom; he never had 
a lesson in the factories yet he weaves his 
ingenious web, and he sets it, too, so as to 
take his prey. 




Surely Providence has taken care of these 
creatures in a wonderful way. And perhaps 
you think that God has been more kind to 
them than to human beings ; for while He 
teaches the animal world, He leaves children 




to schoolmasters ; and while He teaches the 
beavers and the birds their trade, and fur- 
nishes their tools, gratis boys must serve 
seven years to learn a trade, and pay for their 
tools when they have done ! 

But let us look a little farther. It is true 
that if children refuse to learn they remain 
ignorant, and like savages: but children 
can learn if they will. Education is offered 
to them and if it is improved, what is the 
result? Look around, and see those who 
have obeyed the will of God, and who have 
improved their faculties by education see 
what they are and what they have done. The 
instinct of the beaver is very wonderful; 
it enables the beaver to build mounds of earth, 
wood, and stone, which serve as its abode ; 
and it enables him to provide his food of 
roots, and grass, and fruits. But this is the 
whole stretch of instinct. 

Let us now look at the results of education, 
operating upon the faculties of man. Look 
at London, or Paris, or any other fine city. 
How many houses and if we go into them, 
b.ow beautiful how r convenient ! Look at 
the paved streets the pleasant side-walks! 





Go into the shops, and examine the beautiful 
articles there provided for use and ornament. 
Go into the museums, and see the wonders 
there, gathered from the four quarters of the 
globe. Go down to the waters and see the 
ships, made to plough the mighty ocean, and 
hold intercourse with the ends of the earth. 
Go to the churches, and see the people hold- 
ing communion with that God who built the 
earth, and spread out the heavens. Open 
the Bible, and read the wonders of revelation 
the mighty plan of man's salvation. Go 
to the fireside, and see the comfort, the peace, 
the happiness which are there : and remem- 
ber that all these things, every one of them, 
is the product of education. Oh, who then 
would be content with instinct, merely be- 
cause it is easy, and costs nothing; and 
spurn education because it requires effort ? 

Education, then, is a great and glorious 
thing ; but remember that you must take ad- 
vantage of it. The old adage says, " One 
man may lead a horse to water, but ten can't 
make him drink." It is so with children in 
education: it is easy to send them school, 
easy to put books before them, easy to give 





them good counsel ; but if they will not try to 
learn, they will not learn: you cannot teach an 
unwilling mind. When I was a boy, I caught 
a blue jay, and put him in a cage ; but he 
would not eat. I got hold of his head and 
opened his mouth, and put food into it, but 
he would not swallow; and so he died ! Now 
this is just the way with some boys and girls 
they will not take knowledge into their 
minds ; they reject good counsel even if you 
cram it down. 

Well, now I am going to tell you the story 
of INQUISITIVE JACK, who, by his own 
efforts, made the most of a very little educa- 
tion. I present his example to your consi- 
deration, and hope you may learn by it to 
accustom yourselves to observe and think 
how to gain knowledge and make it useful. 





CHAPTER I. 

JACK'S MODE OF SATISFYING HIS CURIO- 
SITY THE ANT-HILL. 

HERE sits INQUISITIVE JACK, with his 
book, for he has now learned to read. It is 
evening, and his mother has gone to see one 
of the neighbours, while he sits by the cradle 
of his little sister, to take care of her, in case 
she wakes up. 

But I must tell you about Jack, when he 





was quite young, and before he could read. 
Almost all children have a deal of curiosity, 
and they ask a great many questions of their 
parents and others. As for instance : What 
makes the fire burn? Why does the sun 
shine? Who made the moon? Why do cats 
have ears ? Where does the blaze go when 
you blow out the candle, &c.? 

Now Jack had his share of curiosity too ; 
but he took a way to gratify it not common 
among children, and it is a very good way ; 
I am going to tell you about it. He lived in 
the country, and his father had several acres 
of land around the house. Here were high 
rocks, and some woods, and a little valley 
where there was a small pond. There were 
also a field and a garden. 

Now Jack had a fancy for roaming about 
his father's grounds, when he was a very lit- 
tle child. His greatest pleasure was to go 
alone over the rocks, and through the woods, 
and to the little valley. He delighted parti- 
cularly to go to the pond, and see the frogs, 
and fishes, and tadpoles and leeches, and in- 
sects that made their home there. He would 
stand for hours upon the rocks, quite ab- 





sorbed in noticing the manners and customs 
of these inhabitants of the pond. 

Now Jack was so much in the habit of 
living out of doors, and walking about, that 
the objects he met with became, as it were, 
companions to him. He never seemed to feel 
alone, if only some flowers, or bushes, or trees 




were around him. He was never impatient, 
never restless, never in a hurry, while saun- 
tering among natural objects. 

I will tell you an instance, to show how 
he enjoyed himself when he was among the 
bushes. 

Just after he had learned to talk, a young 
lady who was staying at his father's house, 



happened to go into the woods where she 
found Jack. He was sitting by the side of 
a whortleberry bush which was covered with 
green whortleberries. " What are you doing 
here ?" said she to Jack. " Jack is waiting 
for the whortleberries to get ripe !" was his 
reply. 

Now, perchance, some of my sharp little 
friends will think Jack a silly boy ; but wait 




lads and lasses, and hear his story before 
you decide. I have said that he had a way 
peculiar to himself of gratifying his curiosity. 
Instead of asking a string of questions, one 
after another, without waiting for a single 
answer, he was in the habit of observing 
things and investigating them. In this way 
he gained a great deal of knowledge. 




Perhaps you may wish to know what I 
mean by observing and investigating. I will 
try to make you understand. 

One day in spring Jack was in the garden, 
digging up a place to sow some pepper-grass 
seed. By and by he happened to see an ant 
running along with a piece of a leaf in his 
mouth. So he stopped his work and looked 
at the ant. The little insect paddled along 
with his six legs very fast, and soon came to 
a little hillock of earth, about as large as a 
wash-hand basin turned upside down. 

It, seemed to consist of a heap of particles 
of sand. Now Jack, instead of running away 
to tell his mother about what he had seen, 
remained to observe and look into the mat- 
ter, or investigate it. On looking at the lit- 
tle mound, he saw there were a number of 
holes in it ; and into one of them the little 
ant with the leaf, plunged head first. " I 
wonder where he is gone to V 9 said Jack. In 
a minute or two several ants came out of 
these holes, and some of them had small white 
things that looked like eggs. These they laid 
down in the sun, and went into their holes 
to fetch more. 


Every ant seemed to be busy about some- 
thing. Jack saw several ants go away from 
the hill. He determined to observe them, 
and find out what was going on. He watched 
one fellow particularly, and he went to the 
distance of as much as three yards. There 
was a large dead fly. The ant went to work, 
gnawed off his head, took it in his teeth, and 
scrambled back to the hill, and down he 
went into one of the holes. 

In a few seconds he came back, made 
another journey to the dead fly, sawed off 
another portion, and transported it to the 
hill. In this way he kept going out and in, 
and in the course of an hour, the ant had 
carried off the whole carcase of the fly. 
" Well," said Jack to himself, " I suppose 
that fellow is the butcher, and supplies the 
ant-folks with meat !" 

While all this was going on, Jack had time 
to observe and investigate other things. He 
saw one ant go as much as a dozen times to 
a dandelion, and load himself with the yellow 
powder which he gathered from the blossoms. 
" I suppose this must be the baker !" said 
Jack. He saw several climb up the stalks of 





tall plants, to get the juice or honey from 
the blossoms. " These fellows seem to be 
the grocers \" said the boy. 

By and by, Jack saw an ant going along, 
when he chanced to arrive at another hill. 
Immediately he began to smell about this 
way and that but an ant upon the strange 
hill saw him. In he went, at a hole, and in 
a few seconds he sallied forth with five or six 
others in his rear. They darted forward, 
heels over head, towards the intruder, the 
strange ant. He had become aware of the 
danger, and was galloping back towards his 
own hill as fast as his legs could carry him. 
Jack looked on with as much interest as if it 
had been a fox-chase. 

The little red ant that had stirred up this 
affray went straight ahead, and pretty soon 
came to a ball of earth as big as a walnut. 
Deeming it better to climb over than to go 
round it, he began to mount, when the leader 
among the pursuers, a large black ant, stuck 
his teeth into him. The red ant turned round 
and grappled ; both fell backwards, and rolled 
upon the earth, when there followed a great 
deal of scratching and biting. 




At last little Red escaped having given 
Black a severe wound. The others now came 
up, and the chase was resumed. By and by 
the party approached Red's home. Here he 
met some of his friends. They carried the 
alarm to the hill. In a few seconds, at least 
fifty ants, all red, sallied forth. " I imagine 
these are the soldiers \" says Jack and so 
they were, sure enough. 

They took the direction toward the party 
that had chased our little hero, Red. Black 
had now recovered, and was at their head. 
He mounted a small stone to reconnoitre and 
see the force of the enemy. He perceived 
that the force was too great, and giving the 
alarm to his party, they all scampered back, 
jumping, galloping, and tumbling, one after 
another. 

The army of the Reds pursued, and finally 
approached the city of the Blacks, close upon 
the heels of the ants that had insulted and 
abused their fellow-citizen. The Blacks 
were soon made aware of the danger that 
threatened them. The fellows that had been 
out on the scout, thumped on the hill, and 
forty or fifty stout fellows rushed forth. They 



marched toward the regiment of Reds, and 
now a fierce battle ensued. 

It was claw to claw teeth to teeth. They 
pulled and hauled bit and scratched ; and 
after a few minutes, the battle was over. One 
large black ant was killed. He was cut into 
four pieces, and the Reds carried him home, 
no doubt for a feast. 

While Jack was busy in observing and in- 
vestigating these things, he heard his mother's 
call. Though he had been engaged at least 
four hours in observing these things, he was 
not weary, and would gladly have staid 
longer ; but being an obedient and good boy, 
he forthwith went to his mother, and found 
his dinner ready. It was one advantage of 
his morning exercise, that the fresh air had 
given him a good appetite. 







CHAPTER II. 

THE STORY OF THE DEAD HORSE-FLY. 
AUNT MARY. 

I HAVE told you in the preceding chapter 
how Jack watched the ants in the garden. 
He was very young at this time, and having 
never been to school he did not even know 
how to read ; but by observing and investi- 
gating things, he had obtained a great deal 
of knowledge. 

As he now learned something about the 
ants, he desired to know more : so he used 
very often to go and look at them. He did 
not stamp with his heel on the ant-hills, and 





crush the houses of the little busy creatures. 
Some boys do this, and think there is fun in 
it ; but Jack looked upon all innocent and 
harmless creatures with a feeling of affection, 
and he loved rather to help them, than to kill 
or disturb them. 

One day he found a large dead horse-fly ; 
so he took it and laid it down at a little dis- 
tance from the ant-hill, and soon saw one of 
the ants come near the fly. He took hold 
of it and tried to carry it ; then pulled and 
hauled it with all his might ; but finding that 
he could not manage it, he set off for the hill. 
It was as much as two yards that he had to 
travel, but he very soon got to his journey's 
end. He there met several of his companions. 
He went close to them, and seemed to touch 
them with his little feelers. Immediately 
four of them set off with him, and went to the 
dead fly. Jack did not hear the ant speak, 
and, perhaps, he had no voice ; but it was 
quite plain that he in some way told his 
friends what he had found, and that he 
wished them to go with him. 

When they got to the dead fly, they took 
hold of it, and began to drag it towards the 




hill. It was twice as big as all the five ants 
put together; but they jerked, and pulled, 
and twitched, and it was really quite won- 
derful to see how fast they got the carcase 
along over the rough earth. Every ant did 
his best : there was no lazy fellow among 
them, skulking and shamming so as to put 
off the hard work upon his companions. 

In a very short time, the ants had brought 
the fly to the hill. As they approached, great 
numbers ran out, to see what was coming. 
In a few seconds all was life and bustle, and 
it really seemed like a city when some great 
sight has brought all the people into the 
streets. 

But the ants did not spend their time in 
gazing: immediately they began to cut up 
the fly, for he was too big to be got into one 
of their houses. One sawed off a leg, another 
a wing, and another the head ; each carrying 
his piece into the hill. In the space of about 
five minutes the fly was cut to pieces, and 
Stowed away in the city of the ants. 

Jack was greatly delighted with what he 
saw. Every evening he used to tell his father 
and mother what he had observed during the 




day, and they were always pleased with his 
simple stories. 

But Jack had an aunt, whose name was 
Mary, and who, having no husband or chil- 
dren to take care of, spent a great deal of her 
time in talking with him. Whenever he met 
with anything curious, he used always to tell 
her. She was not only kind to Jack, but she 
had read a great deal, and was therefore able 
to give him much instruction. 

Jack had got so much interested in the 
ants, that he now begged his Aunt to go with 
him and see them. She agreed to go the next 
day, and Jack went to bed full of pleasure at 
the idea of visiting his little insect-friends the 
next morning with his Aunt Mary. 







CHAPTER III. 

ANOTHER VISIT TO THE ANT-HILL. 
HONEY-DEW. 

As soon as breakfast was over, the next 
day, Jack and his aunt set out to visit the 
ants in the garden. Jack soon pointed out 
a hill, which he had observed before, and they 
both sat down to watch the little creatures at 
their work. 

As usual, all seemed to be busy. Some 
appeared to be occupied in bringing out the 
eggs, which they laid in the sun, so that they 
might hatch the sooner. Some were engaged 
in cleaning out the house, for they were seen 
to bring out small pieces of sand, which they 
carried to a little distance, and threw them 
away. One was seen to come up with a large 
piece of earth, which he rolled along w r ith 
much difficulty. 

While a part of the little people were thus 
engaged in housewifery, others appeared to 
be bringing food together. Sometimes these 





brought flies and pieces of insects ; sometimes 
they appeared to have filled their stomachs, 
and when they met their friends who stayed at 
home, they would put a part of their food 
into their mouths, and feed them, as a mother 
does a child. 

As I have said, aunt Mary had a good deal 
of knowledge, and she had heard that ants 
sometimes get a kind of honey from other 
insects. She was very curious to see this 
herself, So she watched some of the little 




creatures, and observed that they went to 
some large plants that were growing near. 
They ascended the stalks, some of which were 
covered with what is called honey-dew, a 
substance supposed to be deposited by a very 
small sort of insects, which live in great 
numbers upon vegetables. 

Many of the ants stopped to eat this honey- 



dew, which they seemed to be very fond of; 
but others, not finding any of this on the 
stalks, mounted to the full-blown flower, 
where they found numbers of the little insects 
imbedded in the yellow down. The ants im- 
mediately began to suck the honey-dew from 
them, and what was wonderful, these crea- 
tures remained quite still, and seemed pleased 
to have the ants lick the honey off them ! 

This sight gratified Jack and his aunt very 
much, and they spent a long time in watching 
the operations of these curious creatures. 
After spending two or three hours very plea- 
santly, they went to the house. Aunt Mary 
then got a book and read something about 
ants to Jack. I will tell you a few of the 
wonderful things she read to him. 

There are a great many kinds of ants ; 
some are almost an inch long, and others are 
not bigger than a grain of sand. In some 
countries the ants build hills twice as high 
as a man's head. In Africa there are white 
ants, that devour trees, and they are so nu- 
merous that it is dangerous for men to go 
among them, unless several can go together 
and destroy them at once. 




The little garden ants are very harmless ; 
they not only eat up a great deal of the honey- 
dew deposited upon plants, and which would 
otherwise injure them, but they also devour 
a great deal of matter that would putrefv and 
make the air unwholesome. 




CHAPTER IV. 

A STORY ABOUT BEETLES. 

ONE day, as Jack was going along in the 
field, he saw a dead mole lying upon the 
ground. He took it up, and admired its soft 
fur, and the rays upon its nose, making it 
look in shape like a star. He looked also 
very carefully to see if it had eyes, for he had 
been told that moles are blind. 

After looking all over the head of the mole, 
Jack at last discovered two little eyes, as 
black and shining as beads, very near the 
creature's nose. They were deeply hidden 
in the fur, and for this reason it is that people 
say that a mole is blind. Jack, by investi- 
gating for himself, discovered the truth, which 




is, that moles have eyes. Their eyes are so 
small, and so imbedded in fur, because if they 
were larger, they would be exposed to injury, 
as the creature lives under-ground, and digs 
a great deal in the earth. 

Having examined the mole for some time, 
Jack threw it down, and went his way. 
About two or three hours afterwards, he was 
coming back the same path. As he was 




passing the dead mole, he noticed that it ap- 
peared to be sunk in the ground. He stopped, 
and looked at it attentively. After a while, 
he saw a large beetle creep from under it, and 
run round it. 

This attracted Jack's attention, and kneel- 





ing down, he watched carefully to see what 
was going on. After looking about a little, 
he noticed that there were four or five beetles, 
all at work, digging a hole under the mole, 
into which the creature was gradually sinking. 

He lifted up the mole a little, so that he 
might observe them more carefully ; but the 
creatures did not seem to mind him. They 
went on with their work, digging away the 
earth, which they threw gut at the sides. It 
was amusing to see how they toiled. 

The heads of the beetles were shaped some- 
what like a spade. With these they dug up 
the earth, and then clawed it away with their 
feet. Never did a set of men digging a cellar 
appear more active and efficient. 

Jack had always before disliked beetles as 
being ugly, disagreeable things ; but now he 
was delighted to see them. He immediately 
ran off to get his aunt Mary to come and 
observe what was going on. She was very 
busy, but Jack persuaded her to go with 
him. 

They soon came to the spot, and his aunt 
now saw that what Jack had told her was all 
true. The beetles were, indeed, burying the 




mole. " But what are they doing it for ? 
are they sextons ?" said Jack. 

" They are called burying beetles" said the 
aunt ; " but, Jack, I shall leave you to find 
out yourself what they are burying the mole 
for." So, after a time, Jack and his aunt 
went away. The next day Jack went to the 
place, but the mole was not to be seen ! 
There was a little spot of fresh earth where 
it had lain, but that was all. 

Jack began to dig away the earth a little, 
with his fingers, and about two inches below 
the surface, there was the mole. The beetles 
were all around the carcase, making a feast 
of it. Jack covered up the hole, and left them 
to themselves. 







CHAPTER V. 

SPIDERS. HOW THEY MAKE THEIR WEBS. 

THERE are a great many people who ima- 
gine that such little things as bees, butter- 
flies, spiders, and other insects are unworthy 
of their notice ; but this is a great mistake. 
Inquisitive Jack, the hero of our story, did 
not fall into this error. He had an inquiring 
mind, and nothing was beneath his observa- 
tion. 




One morning, very soon after the sun had 
risen, he was walking along among some 
bushes ; it was early summer, and a heavy 
dew had fallen. As he was going along, the 
thread of a spider, strung from one bush to 
another, came across his nose, and he broke 
it as he passed along. 

Soon after this he met with other instances 
in which the spiders 5 threads were extended 
from one shrub to another. Now Jack was 
always asking himself how such and such a 
thing is done ; and he therefore began to in- 
quire how these spiders could stretch a line 
across from one tree to another; for he ob- 
served that these threads were sometimes 
ten or even fifteen feet from the ground, and 
that they extended often to as great a dis- 
tance from the branch of one tree to that of 
another. 

Jack's habit of investigation had made him 
very ingenious in explaining things; but 
here was something quite beyond his reach. 
He could in no way explain what he saw. 

" Strange," said Jack to himself, that 
these little insignificant spiders should know 
more than I do ! I like to find out things 





myself, but I cannot explain this ; so I must 
go and ask aunt Mary about it." 

As Jack turned on his heel to fulfil his 
resolution, he noticed another spider's web 
covered with dew. His attention now being 
excited to the subject, he turned round, and 
saw as many as fifty others, set like nets 
among the bushes and the tall grass. 

Jack had seen these things before, but his 
attention had not been excited, and therefore 
he had not investigated them. He now set 
about the inquiry, with all the ardour of 
youthful curiosity. 

He spent some time in observing the dif- 
ferent kinds of webs, and then proceeded to 
his aunt to ask her about them. She accord- 
ingly sat down, took her knitting- work, and 
while she worked briskly at her needles, she 
gave the information he desired in the follow- 
ing conversation. 

Jack. Oh ! aunt Mary, I have found 
something so curious ! Do you know I have 
been looking at the spiders, and I want you 
to tell me about them. Pray where do they 
get their threads ? and how do they weave 
their nets so curiously ? and how do they 




fasten their threads to the leaves ? and how 
do they stretch them from one tree to ano- 
ther ? and what do they do it all for, for fun 
or for business ? 

A. One question at a time, if you please, 
Jack. 

J. Why I want you to tell me all about the 
spiders. 

A. But where shall I begin: 1 




J. Oh ! I do not care where you begin, I 
want you to tell me everything. 

A. Well Jack, I will tell you what I 
know, and I shall answer your last ques- 
tion first. The spiders, I suppose, make 
their nets both for fun and business, for plea- 
sure and profit. These creatures live chiefly 





upon flies, but they are themselves destitute 
of wings. They are, therefore, provided with 
the means of making nets, by which they can 
catch as many flies as they want. Thus you 
see that God, who made the spiders, has pro- 
vided them with the means to get a living. 
So it is, dear Jack, that He provides for 
everything : the wants of even the insects are 
supplied ; nothing is overlooked. 

J. I thank you, aunt Mary, for that 
idea ; it makes the spider much more inter- 
esting when we consider it as the work of 
Providence. 

A. Yes, that is true, my boy. Now as 
the spiders spread their nets in order to 
get a living, or for business, as you express 
it, they do it also for pleasure for business 
and pleasure usually go together. There is 
always more real satisfaction in doing some- 
thing that is useful than in mere idle sport. 
It is so with human beings, and no doubt it 
is so with spiders. 

J. Well, aunt Mary, you have answered 
one of my questions ; but pray tell me where 
the spiders get their threads. Are any of 
them rope-makers ? 




At Yes, Jack, every one of them. Each 
one spins his own thread, and this is the 
most wonderful part of the whole story. 
You observe that the lower part of a spider's 
body consists of a round ball. In this the 
insect has a gummy substance which is spun 
into thread. It somewhat resembles melted 
glass, for a coarse thread of it is brittle when 
it becomes dry ; while a fine thread is as flex- 
ible as the fibres of cotton or silk. The man- 
ner in which this gum or paste is twisted 
into threads has occupied the attention of 
many philosophers. By looking at the pro- 
cess through magnifying glasses, it has been 
discovered that even the finest thread in the 
web of the spider consists of many hundred 
strands. These are drawn out from the body 
of the insect in a soft state, like paste, but 
they immediately unite and form one com- 
pact cord. In some instances it is said that 
a single thread consists of four thousand 
strands. 

J. But that must be a mistake ! 

A. No, it is certainly true. There are 
many things invisible to the naked eye, 
which are revealed to us by the aid of mag- 




nifying glasses. With the naked eye we can- 
not see more than a thousand stars in the 
sky ; with a telescope we can see millions of 
stars. With the naked eye we can see no- 
thing but fibres in the stalk of a flower, but 
by the aid of a microscope we can see there 
myriads of creeping things. So by the aid 
of a microscope we can discover the thou- 
sand strands of which the spider's thread is 
composed. 

J. Well aunt, I am not going to dispute, 
for I know that you have always a good 
reason for what you say. But pray tell me 
how do the spiders tie their lines to the leaves 
and grass ? 

A. They stick them on with a kind of 
glue, with which nature has provided them. 

J. Well, how do they stretch their lines 
across from one tree to another? 

A. When a spider wishes to build a 
bridge from one shrub to another he climbs 
up to a certain height, and draws out a long 
loose line, taking care to have it in such a 
situation that the wind will carry it across to 
some other tree. The end of the floating line 
is provided with a gummy substance, and 




fastens itself at once to whatever it touches. 
When the spider finds that his line has 
caught he pulls it to see if it is fast, and then 
makes a bridge of it, and crosses over in per- 
fect safety. He now goes backwards and 
forward, each time adding a thread, for the 
purpose of giving it strength. This line is 
like the rope to a fisherman's net, and the 
spider immediately begins to weave his net 
upon it. He proceeds to set several strings 
round, somewhat like the spokes of a wheel, 
and these he binds together by a series of 
circular threads. When the whole is done, 
he weaves a hole in some sly corner, into 
which he retreats ; but the moment that a 
fly gets entangled in his net he darts forth, 
binds him round and round like a prisoner, 
and carries him off to his den. 

Such was the main part of the dialogue 
that passed between Jack and his aunt. The 
boy expressed great satisfaction for what she 
had told him, and then went away to take 
another walk in the fields. 





CHAPTER VI. 

JACK VISITS THE BEEHIVES. 

ONE day Jack was going along by a row 
of beehives, which belonged to his father, 
when he observed an unusual confusion 
among the bees of one of them. A great 
many bees were going in and out at the holes 
of the hive, buzzing and seeming to be in the 
greatest flurry. Besides this, the bees had 




collected on the outside of the hive in a great 
mass, at least an inch deep in one place. 

Jack had seen the beehives so often that 
he had not thought much about them ; but 
now his attention was fixed. He stopped 
and began to look at what was going on, par- 
ticularly among the bees of the hive we have 
mentioned. " Perhaps it is Sunday," said 
Jack to himself, " among these creatures ; or 
it may be election day, and they are going to 
choose a governor or president. Oh, I recol- 
lect, aunt Mary told me once that the bees 
were governed by a queen ; and perhaps they 
are now going to choose one !" 




Saying this, Jack sat down upon the grass 
and creeping pretty close to the hive, quietly 
looked on. Though those bees which had 
settled into a heap were quiet, there were 
many who were flying hither and thither 





up and down round and round in and out 
appearing to be brimful of something very 
important, but really doing nothing after 
all. With them it was all buzz, buzz, buzz ! 

Jack had looked on for about half an hour 
when he saw an unusual agitation in the 
bees that had congregated upon the outside 
of the hive ; they began to flutter their little 
wings, and run this way and that. All at 
once a portion of them took flight, and rising 
about forty feet in the air, whirled round and 
round for a few minutes and then streamed 
away upon the wind. They were followed 
by others, so that a continued line of bees was 
distinctly visible in the air. 

Jack, greatly excited, followed the run- 
away bees till, at the distance of about three 
hundred yards, he found that they began to 
light upon an apple tree. Here they collected 
very fast, and he soon saw them gathered in 
a large dark mass upon one of the limbs. He 
now ran home and told his father what was 
going on. 

Jack's father set out with another man for 
the scene of action, having provided a new 
hive and a brass kettle. When they came to 





the apple tree they began to beat the kettle, 
thinking that such music is apt to induce 
bees when swarming to settle down the more 
readily. The whole company soon arrived 
and alighted upon the limb. They were col- 
lected one upon the other, and the whole 
mass looked about as large round as a man's 
arm. 

The new hive was now placed upon a bench 
beneath the tree, and some honey was put 
near the holes. At evening the limb to which 
the bees were still clinging was carefully cut 
down and placed near the hive. In the morn- 
ing the bees began to leave their place upon 
the bough and to enter the hive. In a short 
time they had all taken up their abode in it, 
and immediately they began to build cells, 
in which to store their honey. That evening 
the hive was removed and placed upon the 
same platform as the other hives. Its inha- 
bitants seemed all pleased with their new 
home, and very soon they had stored it with 
honey. 





CHAPTER VII. 

THE BEES. 

IN the preceding chapter we have told how 
Jack became interested about the bees : we 
shall now relate some of those curious things 
which his aunt Mary told him respecting the 
manners and customs of these ingenious and 
wonderful insects. The habits of bees have 
been carefully studied by many learned and 
curious persons ; but M. Huber, a Swiss gen- 
tleman, has done more than any other man to 
make us acquainted with them. And yet 
Huber was blind ! His wife assisted him in 





his observations ! and thus by making use of 
her eyes, he was able to pursue his studies 
with great success. 

There are three different kinds of bees in 
every hive. First, the labouring bees, which 
make up by far the greater number, and are 
thought to be neither male nor female, but 
merely born for the purposes of labour. The 
second sort are the drones ; they are of a 
darker colour, longer, and more thick by one 
third than the former ; they are supposed to 
be the males, and there are not above a hun- 
dred of them in a hive of seven or eight thou- 
sand bees. The third sort is much larger 
than either of the former, and there is never 
but one permitted to live in a swarm. These 
are called queen bees, and they lay all the 
eggs from which the whole swarm is hatched 
in a season. 

In examining the structure of the common 
working bee, the first thing that attracts our 
attention is the trunk, which serves to extract 
the honey from flowers. It is not formed 
like that of other flies, in the shape of a tube 
by which the honey is to be sucked up ; but 
like a broom to sweep or a tongue to lick it 




away. The animal is furnished also with 
teeth, which serve it in making wax, a sub- 
stance which is gathered from flowers, like 
honey; it consists of that dust or farina 
which contributes to the fruitfulness of 
plants. 

Every bee when it leaves the hive to col- 
lect its precious store enters into the cups of 
the flowers, particularly such as seem charged 
with the greatest quantity of this yellow 
farina. As the animal's body is covered with 
hair, it rolls itself within the flower and 
becomes quite covered with the dust, which 
it soon after brushes off with its two hind 
legs, and kneads into two little balls. 

In the thighs of the hind legs there are two 
cavities edged with hair, and into these, as 
into a basket, the animal sticks the rolls or 
pellets which it has collected. Thus employed 
the bee flies from flower to flower, increasing 
its store and adding to its stock of wax until 
the ball upon the thigh becomes of consider- 
able size, when it returns, making the best of 
its way to the hive. 

The lower part of the body or belly of the 
bee is divided into six.rings, which shorten or 





lengthen the body by slipping one over the 
other. It contains within it, besides the in- 
testines, the honey-bag, the venom-bag, and 
the sting. The honey-bag is as transparent 
as crystal, containing the honey that the bee 
has brushed from the flowers ; of which the 
greater part is carried to the hive and poured 
into the cells of the honey-comb, while the 
remainder serves for the bee's own nourish- 
ment; for during the summer it never touches 
what has been laid up for winter. 

The sting, which serves to defend this little 
animal from its enemies, is composed of three 
parts ; the sheath and two darts which are 
extremely small and penetrating. Both the 
darts have several small points or barbs, like 
those of a fish-hook, which render the sting 
more painful, and make the darts rankle in 
the wound. Still, however, this instrument 
would be a very slight defence, did not the 
bee poison the wound. The sheath, which has 
a sharp point, makes the first impression, 
which is followed by that of the darts, and 
then the venomous liquor is poured in. 

The sheath, with the barbs, sometimes 
sticks so fast in the wound that the animal 




is obliged to leave it behind ; in consequence 
of which the bee soon after dies, and the 
wound is considerably inflamed. It might 
at first appear well for mankind if the bee 
were without its sting ; but upon recollection 
it will be found that the little animal would 
then have too many rivals in sharing its la- 
bours. A hundred other lazy animals, fond 
of honey and hating labour, would intrude 
upon the sweets of the hive ; and the treasure 
would be carried off for want of armed 
guardians to protect it. As the bee lays up 
a most delicious store, it was obviously neces- 
sary that it should have some extraordinary 
defence, and so the sting was provided. 

The most interesting point of view in which 
we can regard bees, is not as separate indi- 
viduals, but as societies or communities. In 
this light they indeed astonish us. It being 
necessary that their hives should be tight, 
the first thing they do is to stop up all the 
crevices with a kind of resinous gum, which 
resists the weather. 

They then proceed to form their cells, 
which we call honey-comb. These are built 
in hexagons, or six-sided figures ; and ma- 




thematicians tell us that this form is the very 
best for the purpose, as it unites the greatest 
strength with the greatest capacity. The 
philosophers found out this fact by deep 
study but who told the little bees of it ? 
They never went to college to learn mathe- 
matics. How then should they always build 
their cells in hexagons ? 

This was one of the questions put by Jack 
to his aunt Mary, and she answered as fol- 
lows: "Bees are provided with wonderful 
knowledge, which we call instinct. It is born 
with them, and is a part of their nature, given 
to them by God who made them. He knows 
everything he knows that a hexagon is the 
best form for the bees to build their cells in, 
and so he furnished them with an instinct, 
which leads them to follow this method of 
building. Is it not interesting to see the 
Almighty thus displaying his knowledge and 
skill, for the benefit of even the little bees? 








CHAPTER VIII. 

MORE ABOUT THE BEES. 

THE queen is the mother of all the young 
bees, for she lays all the eggs from which 
young ones are hatched. When she wishes 
to lay the eggs she goes to the cells which 
have been made by the workers, and having 
taken a peep into them, drops in her eggs, 
taking care to distribute them properly. It 
is said that a single queen will lay six thou- 
sand eggs in a month, and sometimes one 
hundred thousand in a year ! 

The eggs are very small, of a blueish white 
colour, and of a long oval shape. They re- 
main four days, and are then hatched. At 
first the young bee is only a white worm or 
maggot, and may be seen floating at the bot- 
tom of the cell, in a whitish fluid, furnished 
by the nursing bees. It grows rapidly, and 
as it lengthens coils itself into a ring. It is 
then called a grub- worm or larva. 

The little worms are carefully attended by 





the nurses, and as soon as these approach, 
and touch them they open their minute jaws 
and receive their food. This consists of a 
kind of soft pap, formed of the farina of 
flowers, and partly digested in the stomachs 
of the nurses. 

" Really/ 5 said Jack, " the bees seem to be 
very rational kind of creatures. But what 
makes me wonder very much is how they 
should know anything without books or in- 
struction y 

" That is indeed very wonderful/' said his 
aunt, " and we can only explain it by referring 
it to that admirable teaching of their Creator, 
called instinct." 

When the little worms are about four or 
five days old, and have grown so large and 
fat as to fill their cells, the nurses seal them 
up with a brown cover of a conical form. No 
sooner does the larva find himself shut in 
than he begins to work up and down, and to 
wind round himself fine silky threads, which 
he draws in two strands from the middle part 
of his under lip. Round and round he goes, 
nor does he stop till he has woven about him- 
self a thin pod or pellicle just fitting the 



cell. In this condition the creature is called 
a nymph or pupa. 

The working bee is about thirty-six hours 
in spinning and weaving its cocoon or cover- 
ing. It thus spends about three days, during 
which a wonderful change is going on. 
When in the larva state, the creature has no 
wings or legs; it is a simple w T orm. But 
while it is in its swaddling clothes the legs 
and wings are gradually formed ; and at the 
end of twenty-one days from the laying of 
the egg, it gnaws through its covering, and 
comes forth a winged insect, destined to sport 
in the air and hold a joyous revel amongst 
the flowers. As if impatient for sport, the 
insect goes forth soon after its birth, and it 
is said that it may be seen returning to the 
hive, loaded with wax, the same day that it 
becomes a bee ! 

While the young bees are in the larva state 
the utmost care is taken of them. If any 
member of the hive is rude or careless to- 
wards the egg or worm, or the yet un hatched 
pupa, the nurses are very angry. But when 
the pupa has gnawed his way through his co- 
vering he seems to be regarded as of age, 



and able to take care of himself. The tender 
care of the nurse now ceases altogether ; and 
the working bees scramble over his head 
without scruple. While he is still weak, and 
scarcely strong enough to get out of his cell, 
as if for the very purpose of making him ac- 
quainted with the hardships of life, the rude 
multitude of bees rush headlong by, often 
knocking him down, and sometimes giving 
him a severe poke in the side, or a thump on 
his head. How much like human creatures 
the bees are ! 

I have told you how the working-bee 
nymphs are hatched; the complete bee is 
formed in twenty-one days. The process is 
nearly the same in respect to the queen bees 
and the drones; the former, however, are 
hatched in sixteen days, and the latter in 
twenty-five from the laying of the eggs. 

There is one thing in respect to the royal 
bees, or queens, too curious to be omitted. 
When one is nearly ready to emerge from 
her cell, the bees gnaw the covering so as to 
make it very thin. They then eat a small 
hole through it, and feed the pupa for a few 
days. She is thus kept a prisoner, and during 



this time she sings a faint song, called piping. 
You may, if you like, imagine these to be the 
words of her song. 

LAY OF THE INFANT QUEEN BEE. 

O let me out 
My masters pray. 
O let me out 
To day to day ! 

Oh let me out 
To try my wing, 
To run about 
And dance and sing. 

Oh let me out 
To taste the breeze, 
And I will bless 
Ye, pretty bees ! 

Oh let me out 
To see the bowers, 
Where honey dwells 
In golden flowers ! 

Oh let me out 
For I'm a queen 
A pretty bee 
As e'er was seen ! 

In spite of her petition, she is generally 
detained for four or five days after she begins 
to sing. 




CHAPTER IX. 

MORE ABOUT BEES. 

AFTER the swarming season is over, a ge- 
neral massacre of the drones in the hive 
takes place. This usually occurs toward the 
latter part of July. The unfortunate victims 
evidently perceive their danger ; for they are 
now seen darting in and out of the hive, and 
passing from one place to another, as if afraid 
of being seized. 





When the working bees meet these drones, 
they fall upon them and plunge their stings 
into their bodies. The wounded drones ge- 
nerally expand their wings and expire. Some 
of them struggle hard for life, and some 
escape from the hive to starve abroad, but 
they are all slain at last. 

This destruction of the drones may remind 
us of the old Spartans of Greece, who sacri- 
ficed everything to the thrift and prosperity 
of the state. The beehive may be considered 
a little monarchy, in which the great object 
is to increase the wealth of the community. 
The drones having provided for the due in- 
crease of the bees, can no farther contribute 
to the prosperity of the little nation. On the 
contrary, they will not work even so much 
as to obtain their own food ; they still devour 
a portion of honey, and thus diminish the 
general stock which is laid up as a provision 
against the coming winter. For the interest 
of the community at large, the drones are 
slain without mercy. 

The swarming of bees may be compared 
to the emigration of a great number of people 
from one country to form a colony in another. 





In the winter, at least three fourths of the 
bees in the hives usually perish. But the 
amazing fruitfulness of the queen more than 
supplies this waste, and by Midsummer, the 
hive is usually too full for all its inhabitants 
to be comfortable. 

The swarm is very careful to select a fine 
day for its emigration. They usually take 
one of the young queens with them, and, if 
by any chance the swarm passes off without 
a queen, they always return to the hive. 
While swarming, bees are generally peace- 
able, and may be hived without difficulty. 

A writer upon bees tells the following in- 
teresting story: "A little girl of my ac- 
quaintance was greatly afraid of bees, but 
was completely cured of her fears by the fol- 
lowing incident. A swarm having come off, 
I observed the queen alight by herself at 
some distance from the hive ; I immediately 
called my little friend that I might show her 
the queen. She wished to see her more 
nearly; so, after having caused her to put on 
her gloves, I gave the queen into her hand. 

e( We were in an instant surrounded by the 
whole swarm. In this emergency, I encou- 





raged the girl to be steady, bidding her re- 
main silent and fear nothing. I then made 
her stretch out her right hand which held 
the queen, and covered her neck and shoul- 
ders with a very thin handkerchief. The 
swarm soon fixed upon her hand, and hung 
from it, as from the branch of a tree. The 
little girl was delighted above measure at 
this novel sight, and was so entirely freed 
from all her fears that she bade me uncover 
her face. At length, 1 brought a hive, and 
shaking the swarm from the child's hand, it 
was lodged in safety, without inflicting a 
single sting." 

Bees are subject to several diseases; among 
which vertigo is the most remarkable. This 
causes great lassitude or weakness of the 
hind legs, an irregular mode of flying, and 
often produces death. The enemies of bees 
are numerous, among which we may mention 
birds, poultry, mice, wax-moths, slugs, hor- 
nets, wasps, ants, and spiders. Of all these, 
the most destructive are wasps, which often 
enter the hive, and as one wasp is a match 
for three bees, they devour great quantities 
of honey. 




Great attention has been paid to the rear- 
ing of bees, and it has been found advanta- 
geous to remove them occasionally from one 
place to another, so that they may obtain 
fresh pasturage. A gentleman once had a 
swarm which weighed but five pounds when 
he removed it to Dartmoor Heath ; at the 
end of two months, it was increased in weight 
no less than twenty-four pounds ! 

Bees are supposed to have some means of 
communicating with each other by sounds. 
The two horns which come out from the 
head below the eyes, called antennas, are 
supposed to answer the purpose of ears, and 
to convey sounds as well as to accomplish 
some other objects. 

Bees, as well as ants, are often seen to 
meet and cross their antennae, and then pro- 
ceed to act as if important information was 
thus imparted. When the queen of a hive 
is lost, the intelligence is spread with such 
rapidity that twenty thousand bees are in- 
formed of the fact in the space of a few hours, 
a circumstance to be explained only by the 
supposition of something like language, in 
use among them. 






CHAPTER X. 

SOMETHING WORTH KNOWING. 

I HAVE said before that, when Jack be- 
came interested in the subject, he did not 
like to leave it till he knew all about it. He 
did not, like some little people, proceed from 
one object to another, amusing himself for a 
moment. He was more like the little insect 
of which we have told so long a story the 
bee which, when k alights upon a blossom, 
scrapes out all the honey, and then stores it 
away in cells for future use. So it was with 
Jack. He studied one subject at a time, 



SOMETHING WORTH KNOWING. 59 

made himself master of the knowledge it 
afforded, packed it away in the cells of his 
memory, and then was ready to set about 
something else. 

Well, on account of this trait of character, 
he would not leave the subject of bees until 
he had extracted from his aunt Mary all she 
knew of the subject. I have already told 
you many things which he learned, but there 
are many others which I have not related. 
I must now tell you a few of these, and then 
we will proceed to something else. 

Jack had a notion, which is common to 
children, that all domestic animals were na- 
turally tame ; and he was greatly surprised to 
learn that dogs, cats, cows, hens, pigs, horses, 
and even bees, were originally wild, and had 
been brought into their present state by the 
arts of man. 

In nearly all countries there are swarms of 
wild bees, which have their abode in the forest. 
Their hive is the hollow trunk of some aged 
tree. Here they build their cells and store 
their honey. The native flowers of the forest, 
of the valley, and the mountain, of the hill- 
side and the lawn, afford them a supply of 





their delicious food, not only for the daily 
meal, during the warm season, but for the 
stores of winter. 

It is a part of the plan of the benevolent 
Creator, that every portion of the universe 
shall be filled with life, so that happiness may 
everywhere abound. Even where man has 
not yet made his way in the wilderness and 
the solitary place, there are the flowers, with 
their honey, and there, amid other insects, is 
the busy, happy bee, to gather it. How vast 
must be the field of enjoyment which the 
Omniscient eye surveys, if even the study of 
insects unfolds such a view as is here sug- 
gested. 

The hunting of wild bees is very common 
in the western states of America. In some 
parts they are so abundant, that many per- 
sons become regular bee-hunters. Their 
mode of finding the hives is curious and in- 
teresting. 

I must tell you that, when a bee sets off 
from a flower, to return to the hive, it always 
flies home in a straight line. It is one of 
the amazing instincts of this little creature, 
that, wherever it may be, it has the power of 




going to its home without deviation from a 
direct course. It may wander in the woods, 
it may sport amid the mazes of the flowery 
meadow, yet still the little creature never 
gets its head turned, never gets lost. The 
moment that its honey-bags are filled, it 
mounts upward on the breeze, and without 
hesitation, speeds like an arrow to its mark. 

The bee-hunter takes advantage of this 
curious faculty in the bee. He sees in what 
direction the insect flies, and, by following 



it, is able, at last, to discover the hive. A 
practised bee-hunter often adopts this me- 
thod. He notices the direction in which a 
bee flies from one flower, and sets down two 
or three sticks to mark the route. He then 
goes to a little distance, and starts another 
bee, and marks the route he takes. If the 


two lines tend towards each other, he con- 
cludes that the point at which they meet 
is where the hive is to be found. Judging 
of the distance by the skill acquired by prac- 
tice, the hunter proceeds to the spot, and 
seldom fails of finding the honey pretty near 
the place which his calculations have indi- 
cated. 

The scientific bee-hunter sometimes adopts 
the following method : he places some bee- 
bread, in order to tempt the bees, on a flat 
board or tile, and draws a circle around it 
with white paint. The bee always settles 
upon the edge of anything flat ; so she must 
travel through the paint to reach the edge. 
When she flies away, the white paint on her 
body enables the hunter to observe her flight, 
and her course is marked down with a pocket 
compass. The same thing is done at another 
spot, some distance from the first, and, by 
comparing the direction of the two lines, the 
situation of the nest is easily found, as it 
must be at the point where the lines would 
meet. 

We are told that, in Africa, there is a cu- 
rious little hunter of the wild bee. This is 




a small quadruped, called the honey-ratel. 
This cunning fellow seems to understand 
optics ; for, when he wishes to get a distant 
view of the bees, he holds up one of his fore 
paws, as you would your hand, in order to 
shade his eyes, and thus exclude from the 
pupil of the eye an excess of light. He 
watches the bees, particularly at sunset, for 
he knows that, like other working people, 
they are then retiring to their homes. Fol- 
lowing the route they take, he is able to find 
out the vicinity of the hive, and, when he has 
come near, his keen scent directs him to the 
honey which he seeks. 

There is, also, in the wilds of Africa, a 
little bird called the honey-guide. This crea- 
ture has the faculty of finding out where the 
honey is stored, and it is said that when he 
meets a traveller in the wilderness, he will 
flutter along before him, from branch to 
branch, and from tree to tree, and, at last, 
guide him to the hive. 

I remember to have read a story of this 
kind, a great many years ago, when I was a 
boy. It was in the beautiful tale of Alphonso 
and Dalinda, told by Madame de Genlis, in 




her Tales of the Castle. I have never for- 
gotten it; and no story that I have since 
heard has seemed half so pleasing. Does it 
not seem, indeed, almost like an ancient fairy- 
land, that travellers, wandering in the Wilds 
of Africa, should find a little bird who be- 
comes their guide to a feast of honey ? 

If I were to repeat all that aunt Mary told 
her nephew about bees, I am afraid that I 
should fill a book. So I may as well bring 
this chapter to an end, after saying a few 
words about other kinds of bees. 




I might talk a long time about the humble- 
bee, or, as some of my little readers call him, 
the bumble-bee. He is very large, and goes 
about with an air of importance, like some 
fat, bustling people. He has one habit which 




it is well not to imitate, and that is, of always 
humming a tune as he roams about. This 
bee makes his nest of moss, in the hay-field, 
usually beneath a heap of stones, or in some 
excavation of the earth. Two or three dozen 
usually assemble together, and carry on the 
various operations of the little community. 

The mason bee builds her nest in the hole 
of an old wall, or in a rock, of little pieces of 
clay. She makes four or five cells, of the 
size of a thimble, in each of which she lays 
an egg. The carpenter bee makes a nest in 
an old post, by boring a hole, in which she 
lays her eggs. 

We could tell some of aunt Mary's curious 
stories about upholstery bees and leaf-cutting 
bees, and we could say a great deal about 
their spiteful enemies, the wasps and hornets. 
But we must close the chapter by remarking, 
that all these different branches of the bee 
family live in communities, make and store 
honey, hatch their young from eggs, adopt a 
kind of despotic government, and carry a 
sharp sword sheathed in the tail. 






CHAPTER XI. 

ABOUT BUTTERFLIES. 

OUR readers must not suppose that our 
little hero had no interest in anything but 
insects. It is true that his mind being once 
engaged upon this subject, his curiosity in- 
creased with his knowledge, and for a time 
he preferred the study of insects to that of 





anything else. At one period, as I have told 
you, he was greatly interested in beetles ; 
then in spiders ; and then in bees. Finally 
he turned his attention to butterflies. You 
may perhaps be tired of my story, but you 
must hear about this. 

One beautiful summer day, he saw a large 
butterfly seated upon a flower its wings 
were splendidly marked with figures of brown, 
black, and gold. They were almost as large 
as the palm of his hand. As the insect sat 
upon the flower, he waved them up and down, 
seeming to fan the blossom upon which it 
was resting. 

Jack's first idea was to rush upon the but- 
terfly, and seize it ; but he had now acquired 
a habit of investigation. He had lost that 
instinct which leads thoughtless children to 
snatch at every new and pleasing object. He 
was no longer a mere child, but a thinking 
boy. His mind was awake, and the plea- 
sure he derived from its exercise was very 
great. 

So Jack, having approached near to the 
butterfly, paused and examined it carefully. 
He found that it had four wings, two large 





and two small ones, and that it had six legs, 
four only of which seemed to be used. 

While Jack was thus pursuing his obser- 
vations, he gradually drew nearer, until the 
alarmed insect took to flight, and with a 
wavering motion, swept across soon the ad- 
jacent meadow, until it was lost in distance. 




As Jack was in the habit of thinking about 
what he had seen, he mused upon the little 
butterfly, and then asked his aunt Mary about 
it. She was ever ready to gratify his cu- 
riosity, and answered him as foUows : 

" You must know, my dear Jack/' she said, 
"that the family of butterflies is very nume- 
rous ; it comprises not only those which pass 




under the name of butterfly, and which go 
abroad in the daylight, but those also which 
are called moths, and which fly about at 
night. 

" The butterflies have ever been regarded 
as among the most beautiful objects in nature. 
They seem almost like flowers or gems, which 
have become endowed with life, and, taking 
wings, soar away upon the breeze. Thus a 
poet speaks of them, as creatures 

' Which flutter round the jasmine stems, 
Like winged flowers, or flying gems.' 

" Who, indeed, has not observed these little 
creatures flying from flower to flower, sipping 
the nectar from each, and seeming only to 
think of the present happy moment ? And 
who has not thought how like to happy, 
heedless, children are these pretty butter- 
flies? 

"It is natural that the poets, who are 
always looking out for beautiful things, should 
seize upon such a subject as the butterfly, 
and we therefore find them often alluded to 
in poetry. Spenser thus describes one of 





these insects, and it is a very good descrip- 
tion too : 

' The velvet nap which on his wings doth lie, 
The silken down by which his back is dight, 
His broad outstretched horns, his hairy thighs, 
His glorious colours and his glistening eyes.' 

t( The moths have also attracted the atten- 
tion of the poet ; and as they are dazzled by 
a lamp at night, and frequently fly into it and 
scorch themselves to death, they have been 
often compared to giddy youth, who rush 
thoughtlessly into dangerous pleasures, and 
are thus lost for ever. 

" Butterflies and moths have not only four 
wings and six legs, and two horns or feelers, 
but they have a little tube or proboscis, with 
which they suck in the juice of flowers. 
When this is not in use, it is nicely rolled up, 
and packed beneath the head of the animal, 
under a hairy cover made for the purpose. 

(e When examined with a glass, the body 
of the insect appears to be covered with hair, 
and the fine brilliant dust upon the wings is 
found to consist of minute scales. 

" But the eyes of butterflies are, perhaps, 
their most remarkable organs. Some of them 





are simple, while others are composed of a 
collection of magnifying lenses. It is said 
that in some butterflies the eye consists of 
sixteen thousand lenses. 

te Of the butterfly tribe, some live upon the 
honey of flowers, others upon the leaves of 
plants, and others upon dead wood. Some 
of them subsist upon animal substances, and 
are very destructive to woollen cloths, furs, 
and feathers. The honeycomb-moth we have 
already mentioned as often infesting the bee- 
hive, and preying upon wax. 

" While the butterflies, in their perfect 
state, have always attracted the attention and 
excited the interest of mankind, the wonderful 
steps by which they reach their perfect state 
have not formed a less interesting subject of 
observation. They have three states of ex- 
istence : they are first eggs, then worms, and 
then winged and perfect insects. 

" The female butterfly deposits her eggs upon 
such plants as are proper to nourish the little 
caterpillars which are to proceed from them. 
The common white butterfly places hers upon 
cabbages. The tortoiseshell and peacock 
butterflies often place theirs upon nettles. 





The eggs are generally attached by a kind of 
glue to the surface of the plant. The moths 
are usually more careful, for they generally 
deposit their eggs in some concealed place, 
and wrap them up carefully in a downy sub- 
stance. 

"When the butterfly egg is hatched, it 
produces a caterpillar, which, as you know, 
is a kind of heavy worm, usually furnished 
with sixteen feet, and which feeds voraciously 
upon leaves. After changing its skin, a pro- 
cess which lasts three or four minutes and 
often proves fatal, it grows very rapidly. 
When the caterpillar has reached its full size, 
it ceases to eat, and retires to some solitary 
place to undergo its wonderful transformation. 

" Here it proceeds to form a mass of silken 
threads, which it spins from its mouth, and 
it is soon seen suspended by the tail. It now 
raises its head a little, giving a curve to its 
back. This motion is repeated until a slit is 
formed, first behind the head, and then along 
the back. At length the skin of the larva 
disappears, and the chrysalis is formed. 

ie The newly-formed chrysalis of a butterfly 
when opened, is found to contain only a mass 




of pap-like substance, in which no trace of the 
limbs of the future butterfly can be observed, 
yet the outer covering is marked with all the 
external organs of the future butterfly in a 
very short time after the skin of the caterpillar 
has been cast off. On opening the chrysalis, 
indeed, after a proper space, we shall find, 
encased in separate parts, the wings, eyes, 
and other organs of the future butterfly. 

"When the insect has remained in this 
pulpy or chrysalis state for a proper time, a 
motion may be perceived within. The skin, 
which is now thin and dry, gives way, and 
bursting into four distinct and regular pieces, 
liberates its little prisoner, whose wings 
rapidly assume their proper size, and it joins 
its companions in the air. The poet Spenser 
thus happily describes the new-born insect : 

* When he arriving, round about doth fly 
From bed to bed, from one to other border ; 

And takes survey, with curious busy eye, 
Of every flower and herb there set in order ; 

Now this, now that, he tasteth tenderly, 
Yet none of them he rudely doth disorder j 

Nor with his feet their silken leaves deface, 

But pastures on the pleasures of each place.' " 






CHAPTER XII. 

ABOUT INSECTS IN GENERAL. 

I WILL now give my readers a short chapter 
upon insects in general, extracted from aunt 
Mary's talk to her inquisitive nephew. 

Insects are so called because they appear 
to be divided into two parts, and the word 
insect means cut apart. The insect tribe are 
divided by naturalists into several orders. 
The first consists of those that never have 
wings, as the spider, flea, and louse; the 
second consists of those which have wings, 
but so cased up as not to appear when first 
produced, such as the grasshopper, earwig, 
&c. ; the third is of the moth and butterfly 
kind ; the fourth such as come from a worm 
instead of a caterpillar, as the beetle, bee, fly, 
gnat, &c. 

We are very apt to conceive that insects, 
from their small size, are very insignificant 





creatures. But this is a wrong view of the 
subject. In the first place they are exceed- 
ingly curious in their structure, and won- 
derful in their habits and instincts. A writer 
on natural history says, that if we compare 
insects with the higher ranks of nature, such 
as quadrupeds, birds, &c., we shall perceive 
in the former all the peculiarities which be- 
long to the latter ; the piercing eye of the 
lynx and the falcon, the hard shield of the 
armadillo, the splendid tail of the peacock, 
the imposing horns of the stag, the swiftness 
of the antelope, the fecundity of the hare, the 
architectural powers of the beaver, the climb- 
ing abilities of the squirrel, the gambols of 
the monkey, the swimming of the frog, the 
burrowing of the mole, and the leaping of 
the kangaroo: all these gifts are found 
amongst insects, and generally, indeed, in a 
redoubled degree. 

The amazing variety of the insect tribes 
also increases the interest of the subject. In 
the royal collection at Berlin, in Prussia, 
there are no less than twenty-eight thousand 
species or kinds of beetle. Celebrated natu- 
ralists have calculated that there are, in the 



world, five hundred thousand different kinds 
of insects, and countless myriads of each 
kind. It is said that one single insect of the 
aphis or louse tribe may be the living parent 
of six thousand millions of descendants ! 

The importance of insects may be gathered 
from another consideration. Some of them 
are very useful. The bee we have already 
noticed. We may also mention the cochineal 
insect, which exists in great numbers in the 
East Indies and in South America. It is a 
minute creature of the aphis tribe, and is 
hardly so large as a peppercorn. Yet it is 
produced in such quantities that many thou- 
sands of pounds of them are sent every year, 
in a dried state, to America and Europe. 
They contain a colouring principle, called 
carmine, which produces an intensely red 
colour. These insects are chiefly used for 
dying scarlet. In Brazil large estates are 
devoted to the cultivation of plants, for the 
purpose of breeding them. Great quantities 
are also produced in different parts of Spain. 

Among the useful insects, we may notice 
the Spanish fly, which is about three fourths 
of an inch in length, with brilliant green 





wings. They are called cantharides, and are 
used in medicine, especially for producing 
blisters. 

We might notice many other useful insects, 
but must pass them by. We might speak, 
also of the beautiful fire-flies, which appear 
in myriads during the night ; of the glow- 
worms, which 
seem to burn 
with a mild and 
steady blaze, to 
illuminate the 
darkness ; and 
the great lantern 
moth of South 
America, which is sometimes used to deco- 
rate the heads of women, and several of 
which, it is said, will answer the purpose of a 
torch. 

The surface of the earth, the waves of the 
sea, and the very atmosphere around the 
whole globe, are all the abodes of countless 
insects. Even the stalks and leaves of plants 
are filled with them. If you will take a mi- 
croscope and look into the stalks of certain 
nlants, you will see thousands of little busy, 





bustling insects there, all of them seeming to 
be in the full enjoyment of existence. Nay, 
if you will apply the microscope to a tumbler 
of water, you will see that this also is filled 
with living things. Thus the poet says : 

" Full nature swarms with life ; one wondrous mass 
Of animals * * Through subterranean cells, 
Where searching sunbeams scarce can find a way, 
Earth animated heaves. The flowery leaf 
Wants not its soft inhabitants. Secure, 
Within its winding citadel, the stone 
Holds multitudes. But chief the forest boughs, 
That dance unnumbered to the playful breeze, 
The downy orchard, and the melting pulp 
Of mellow fruit, the nameless nations feed 
Of evanescent insects. Where the pool 
Stands mantled o'er with green, invisible, 
Amid the floating verdure, millions stray : 
* * * * Nor is the stream 
Of purest crystal, nor the lucid air, 
Though one transparent vacancy it seems, 
Void of its unseen people." 






CHAPTER XIII. 

ABOUT THE WREN FAMILY AND OTHER 
MATTERS. 

I HOPE my readers are satisfied, by this 
time, that Inquisitive Jack, in pursuing the 
study of insects was not wasting his time. 
It not only gave him a great deal of pleasure, 
but he obtained from it much useful infor- 
mation. But I must tell you what I have 
before intimated, that his whole attention 
was not confined to insects. He observed 



and investigated plants and flowers, and thus 
became a botanist. He studied the habits 
and nature of birds, and thus became an orni- 
thologist; and, in short, he mastered the 
whole field of natural history. 

I will now tell you how Jack's attention 
was first attracted to birds. One day he was 
at the bottom of the garden, when he became 
interested in some insects which he saw on 
the leaves of a hop vine, which was climbing 
up a trellis close by. In order to examine 
the insects more closely, Jack took off his 
cap, and carelessly hung it on the top of one 
of the stakes which supported the trellis. 

After examining the insects for a while, 
Jack became so interested in the subject that 
he picked off some leaves of the hop-vine, 
covered with the little creatures, and carried 
them to his aunt Mary, to ask her about 
them. He forgot his cap, which was left on 
the stake ; nor could Jack recollect, when he 
wanted it, where he had left it. He was 
obliged to wear his best hat for nearly a week, 
when by chance he discovered his cap on 
the stake. He then recollected all about it, 
and ran to the trellis to take it down. But 




what was his surprise to find it tenanted by 
a fierce little wren, who flew out of the cap 
and then darted at Jack, snapping at him 
sharply with his tiny beak. 

Jack was almost frightened at the fierce- 
ness of the little bird, but after a while he 
reached up his hand and took down the cap. 
You may well believe that he was greatly 
amused to find that the little wren, with its 




companion, had begun to build a nest in it. 
They had already packed it more than half 
full of sticks, straws, and dried grass, 

At first Jack was sorry that he had robbed 
the little birds of their home; but after a 
while he got a little box and made a hole 
large enough for the wrens to go in and out, 
and set it upon the stake where the cap had 
been. For two or three days the wrens were 
very shy and would not go near the box. 






But at last one of them flew to the trellis and 
peered all about to see that there was no dan- 
ger near. In a little while he sidled along 
towards the box, making a queer noise all 
the time. By and by he ventured to alight 
upon the box, and finally he popped his head 
into the hole. Then he looked all around 
again very cautiously, and at last in he went. 
He soon came out again and stationed him- 
self upon the top of the box, and began to 
sing with all his might. I will try to put his 
song into words. 

Hi diddle ho diddle, 
Pop diddle dee, 
Here's the prettiest house 
You ever did see. 

Come hither, come hither, 
My own pretty dear, 
Here's a home for us both, 
And no danger near. 

Here's a hole for our door, 
And a room for our nest, 
So come, my sweet bird, 
And we both will be blest. 

Hi diddle ho diddle, 
Pop diddle dee, 
'T is the prettiest house 
You ever did see! 









Thus the little fellow kept singing on as if 
he would split his throat, and soon his little 
mate was seen flying along towards him. She 
alighted upon the box, and nothing could 
exceed his apparent delight. Mr. Wren then 
popped into the box, and Mrs. Wren popped 
in after him. 




Jack was an attentive observer of all these 
proceedings, and he was greatly delighted to 
find that the wrens were willing to accept of 
the box in exchange for the cap. The next 
day they began to build their nest in the box. 
It was very pleasant, indeed, to see the little 
creatures at work. They would carry up 



quite large sticks, and were very handy in 
getting them into the hole. They began their 
work by sunrise, and so industrious were 
they, that in four days the nest was finished. 
The lower part consisted of rough sticks and 
coarse straws. The upper part was finer, and 
the lining was of fine grass. In a week there 
were four little spotted eggs in the nest. The 
female wren was now rather quiet, but her 
mate was very watchful and bustling. If a 
robin or any other bird came near, he flew at 
him in the most fearless way. One day, as 
Jack was watching him, the little fellow at- 
tacked a crow that was passing by, and 
pecked him so sharply as to make the old 
fellow cry (( Caw, caw, caw," and the wren 
seeming satisfied, returned to his box. Perch- 
ing himself upon the very top of the trellis, 
he began to sing a song of triumph, shaking 
his wings all the time in great glee. 

The female wren soon began to sit upon 
the eggs, and her consort was always at hand 
when any cat or bird intruded upon his do- 
minions. He spent a good deal of his time 
in singing ; in part, I suppose, to amuse him- 
self, and in part to amuse his little lady. 




Well, after a time, there were four young 
birds in the nest, and both Mr. and Mrs. 
Wren were too busy in feeding their children 
to sing or play. They caught flies, and moths, 
and spiders, and gave them to their young 
ones, and it was amazing to see what a num- 
ber of these insects the little wrens ate, and 
it was really amusing to see how serious and 
silent the old wrens appeared to be. 

The little ones grew apace, and in a short 
time it was thought best for them to leave 
the nest. You may well believe that Jack 
was on the look-out to see the little creatures 
take to their wings for the first time. In the 
first place, one of the young birds put his 
head through the hole in the box, and looked 
all round to see if the coast was clear. It was 
amazing to see how cunning the little fellow 
was, though only a fortnight old. The old 
wrens were at a short distance, chattering at 
a great rate, and seeming to invite the little 
fellow to try his wing. At last he took cou- 
rage, leaped from the box, and alighted safely 
upon a fence at some distance. 

Now how do you think this little bird knew 
how to fly where to go and how to alight 


upon the fence? for you must remember that 
he had never been out of the box before. I 
suppose you will tell me that he was guided 
by instinct that strange power given by the 
Creator and you will tell me right. After 
the first one had departed, the others came 
out one by one, and all were successful 
in their first flight, except the last. This 
little fellow, in attempting to alight upon the 
fence, missed his footing, and fell to the 
ground. The old wrens came to him imme- 
diately, and there was a prodigious chatter- 
ing about what had happened. The little 
fellow looked very serious for a time, but at 
last he made a new effort, flew a little dis- 
tance, and reached one of the lower rails of 
the fence. The old wrens cheered him with 
their approbation, put a spider in his mouth, 
and he seemed quite happy. 

This was a great day among the wren 
family. Never was there such a bustle be- 
fore ! The little wrens kept calling out for 
something to eat ; the old wrens flew first to 
one and then to another, giving each an 
insect. 

It would take me a long time to tell all 





that happened upon this interesting occasion. 
Jack was there and saw it all, and if you ever 
meet him you had better ask him about it. 
I can only tell you, at present, that from this 
time he was very much interested in birds ; 
not as creatures to be hunted and tormented 
or killed, but as creatures that build nests, 
and have their homes, and rear their young 
ones, which they love very much, and which 
they treat with the utmost care and tender- 
ness. He looked upon them as creatures 
displaying great ingenuity, many curious ha- 
bits and wonderful instincts. He therefore 
found a great deal more pleasure in watching 
their movements and studying their charac- 
ters, than in throwing stones at them or 
shooting them. 








CHAPTER XIV. 

ABOUT THE HEN AND HER CHICKENS. 

SOON after this, Jack's attention was very 
strongly attracted by a hen and her chickens. 
Jack himself had set the hen. He was told 
that the eggs would be hatched in just three 
weeks, and so it proved. 

It is a curious thing that the eggs of hens 
should always be hatched in just three weeks, 




and I must stop to tell you a story about 
this. A man told one of bis neighbours that 
his hens always hatched of a Sunday, and he 
wondered what the reason was. " I can tell 
you/ 5 said the neighbour, " it is because you 
set them on a Sunday \" Thus you see that 
the improper conduct of a man who broke 
the sabbath was exposed. 

But to return to Jack. About the time 
the hen was to hatch, he went every day to 
see if the chickens had come forth. He could 
not help wondering at the patience of the old 
hen in sitting night and day so faithfully 
upon her eggs. He noticed that she went off 
her nest but once a day ; that she was then 
in a great hurry to get a little food and drink 
and return to her duty, as if she were afraid 
her eggs would suffer. He observed that no- 
thing could tempt her from her charge : the 
other hens were out in the fields, scratching, 
the earth, feasting on worms and insects, and 
delighting in the spring-time; but the old 
hen, forsaking their pleasures, remained upon 
her eggs. Though she was wasted by hun- 
ger, thirst, and fever, nothing could induce 
her to betray her trust : there she continued, 



obeying that voice within which we call in- 
stinct. 

On the twenty-first day of the hen's sitting. 
Jack went early in the morning to the nest, 
and his delight knew no bounds when, on 
approaching it, he saw the chickens peeping 
out from under old Biddy's feathers. The 
good mother herself seemed to be filled with 
a sort of quiet extacy. When she heard the 
gentle cries of her offspring, she endeavoured 
to hush them to rest by a few low notes, as 
much as to say 

" Hush, my dear, lie still and slumber." 

All this day the hen remained on her nest, 
and Jack gave her a little meal mixed with 
water to eat. The next day twelve of the 
thirteen eggs were all hatched, and the old 
hen, with much caution and an air of vast 
importance, set forth with her brood for a 
walk. It was interesting indeed to witness 
these ene. 

No sooner had the mother and her brood 
issued from the shed in which the hatching 
or incubation had taken place, than she be- 
gan to scratch among the leaves and grass 




with all her might. The chickens kept close 
to her side, and though but a day old seemed 
to know perfectly well what it all meant. 
They picked up the little seeds and insects, 
and swallowed them, taking care to avoid 
stones and dirt and things that are not fit for 
food. How could these little creatures know 
so much ? That is a curious question ; and 
I can only answer that God had taught them. 

The old hen went on from place to place, 
clucking all the time, and taking the utmost 
care to keep her brood together, and under 
her own immediate inspection. She made 
good use of her legs among the leaves, and 
many a grub and worm did she discover for 
her little ones. She would eat nothing herself, 
but gave everything to her chickens; except 
now and then when she came across a beetle 
or other insect too big for her infant flock, 
and then she swallowed it. 

Nothing could exceed the industry, energy, 
and watchfulness of old Biddy. For hours 
together she continued to scratch and dig for 
her young ones, as if life depended upon it. 
And all this time it was delightful to see how 
careful she was of her brood. Her head was 
bobbing up and down every instant, and her 





sharp eye turned on every side, to see if there 
was danger. Not a bird flew over the spot 
unwatched; and if it was in any degree 
threatening in its appearance, the whole flock 
were instantly driven to a place of safety. If 
a cat or dog came near they were sure to 
repent it, and learn better manners for the 
future. 

When at last the chickens had filled their 
little crops, and became weary, the old hen 
gathered them under her wings. There is 
hardly anything in nature more pleasing than 
a hen brooding her chickens. The little crea- 
tures themselves are marked with a singular 
smoothness, beauty, and look of innocence. 
Those which are most weary bury themselves 
deep in the plumage of the mother's breast, 
and there, cherished by a genial warmth, im- 
bedded in down, and every want and fear 
appeased, they fall to sleep. Those which 
are not yet so drowsy, pop out their heads 
from the mother's feathers, and look around; 
or they linger outside, and pick among the 
gravel for food; or they nibble at the old 
hen's beak ; or perchance they smooth some 
bit of their delicate plumage that is ruffled ; 
or possibly climb to the old hen's back. The 




look of innocence, peace, and happiness dis- 
played by the chickens, and the mingled as- 
pect of care and content borne by Mistress 
Biddy, afford a touching and delightful pic- 
ture. Who can witness it and not feel that 
a God of love is the author of what we call 
Nature ! 

All these things were noted by Jack, and 
after he had observed them for a long time, 
he went for his aunt. He found her, as usual, 
at work, but he could not be contented till 
she left her work, and went with him to see 
the hen and her chickens. After looking at 
them a long time, they went to the house, 
and some days after the following conversa- 
tion took place. 

J. Pray tell me, aunt Mary, why the hen 
that has chickens always keeps clucking ? 

A. That the chickens may always 
know where she is. The chickens are 
continually running about, and sometimes 
they go to a considerable distance : but as 
the hen is always clucking, they can at any 
time find her. But for this, they would in- 
evitably get lost. If the Creator had forgot- 
ten to teach hens to cluck, and had neglected 
to make any other adequate provision, a 





brood of chickens could never have been 
raised. 

J. Well, why do the chickens keep always 
chirping ? 

A. That the hen may know where they 
are. You will observe that if two or three 
chickens are wandering together, away 
from the hen, their chirping is usually 
faint and low r ; but if one is straying alone, 
his tones are loud and distinct. They seem 
to feel confidence when several are together, 
but if one is alone he feels that it is necessary 
to speak out. The clucking of the hen may 
be considered as continually calling to her 
scattered brood, Cf Here I am, chicks ! here 
I am \" And the chirping of the chickens 
may be considered as saying " Here am I, 
mother ! Here am 1 1" In this way a com- 
munication is kept up, even while the brood 
is scattered over a wide space in search of 
food. Almost all birds have natural cries, 
which answer the same purpose with them 
as the clucking of the hen and the chirping 
of the chickens, with these. 

J. Well, aunt, I see that the old hen seems 
to talk to her chickens. If a wren or a spar- 
row, or any other little harmless bird, flies 





by, the old hen says " cur-r-r-r-r \" in a mo- 
derate tone, as much as to say a look out ;" 
and so all the chicks just cast their eyes 
around, and seem to take no more notice of 
what has happened. But if a hawk appears 
in the air, and near, the " cur-r-r-r" is uttered 
in a wilder key ; the old hen steps nigh, and 
seeks a shelter, and the chickens run to her 
as if frightened out of their little wits. Now 
what I want to ask is, how do the chickens 
only two or three days old know so much 
and understand so well what their mother 
means and says ? 

A. You might as well ask, Jack, how the 
chickens know so much as to pick up seeds 
and worms when only a day old. The seem- 
ing knowledge of these little creatures, which 
is often so wonderful, is to be explained just 
as we explain the skill of the bees in building 
their cells, and the ants in constructing their 
little cities in the earth by instinct : a power 
or knowledge implanted by nature, or in 
other words by God, the author of nature. 
He gives these powers, and though we may 
see their effects, he only can explain their 
operation. But there is one thing in your 
observation upon the chickens to which I 





wish to call your attention, Jack. Did you 
ever know the old hen to call to her chickens, 
in danger, when they neglected or disobeyed 
the call? 

J. No, not that I remember. 

A. Let this, then, be a lesson to you, my 
boy : these little birds are taught obedience 
to their parent by God, and they obey. So 
God has taught children obedience : for he 
has said in the solemn commandment, " Ho- 
nour thy father and thy mother," and the 
apostle adds, " Children obey your parents 
in the Lord, for this is right/ 5 The hen, the 
parent of the chickens, is their guardian : she 
knows more than they do ; she is stronger, 
and sees further, and is wiser than they. It 
is best for the chickens, therefore, that they 
should obey her ; were they to neglect her 
counsel they would be devoured by prowling 
beasts or birds of prey. The obedience, there- 
fore, that they are called upon to exercise is 
imposed for their good. And just so is it 
with respect to children : their parents have 
more experience, knowledge, and wisdom 
than they ; they know what is best for them. 
It is, therefore, for the true happiness of chil- 
dren that they should obey their parents. 






CHAPTER XV. 

THE POULTRY-YARD. 

I SHALL not undertake to tell the whole 
history of the old hen and chickens, whose 
story is begun in the preceding chapter. If 
any of my readers meet with Jack, who is 
now a man, they can ask him and he will 
inform them how the greater part of the 
brood grew up to be pullets or cockrels, and 



made a considerable noise in the world. He 
will tell them how the former at last became 
old hens, and laid eggs, and cackled like their 
ancestors ; and how the latter, after many fun- 
ny trials, learned to crow, and finally to fight, 
as their fathers and grandfathers had done 
before them. I must tell you myself what 
Jack said to his aunt about this fighting. 

He had watched the chickens with a good 
deal of care, and he was greatly diverted to 
see the little roosters, as soon as they had 
bits of red comb on their heads, try to crow 
and fight. They really seemed like some 
smart boys we have seen, at the age of six- 
teen or seventeen, trying to smoke cigars and 
drink wine, and appearing very ridiculous, 
while they fancied that they were exciting 
the envy and admiration of all around them, 
inasmuch as they are imitating the deeds of 
those older than themselves. 

Jack laughed heartily at the ambitious 
efforts of the cockrels, as well in boasting as 
in battle, until one day he saw two of them 
fight till their heads were bloody, and one of 
them had his eyes picked out. This shocked 
him greatly, and his heart being grieved, he 





went to tell what had happened to his aunt. 
She tried to comfort him as well as she could, 
but at last he spoke to her as follows : " You 
told me, aunt Mary, that these creatures 
were governed by instinct, and that this in- 
stinct was implanted by God. You said that 
the obedience of the chickens to their parent 
was of this nature, and furnished a good ex- 
ample to children. Now I wish to ask if this 
fighting of the cockerels is not implanted by 
God, and therefore a good example to chil- 
dren?" 




His aunt smiled at the shrewdness of this 
question, and seeing it was asked in earnest 
and not scoffingly by Jack, she replied seri- 
ously in these words. " I do not suppose, 
Jack, that instinct is the only guide of ani- 
mals. It is their guide when young, but 
when they are older and know how to take 





care of themselves, then I suppose that in 
many things they act from their own feelings. 
When you were an infant you were guided 
by instinct ; but now that you are older, you 
act freely according to your choice. You 
may fight, or you may be peaceful, just as 
you please. Having arrived at this period 
you are responsible for your conduct, for it 
has pleased God to make you free. It is just 
so, I think, even with these young cockrels, 
they may either fight or let it alone. If they 
fight and get bloody noses, they only are to 
blame. And if they do fight, it is no example 
for us. God has given human beings a love 
of peace, and this should be their rule. Dr. 
Watts has said, 

" Let dogs delight 

To bark and bite, 
For God hath made them so 

Let bears and lions 

Growl and fight, 
For 'tis their nature too." 

But it is quite otherwise with human be- 
ings : even if brute animals are left to tear 
each other in pieces, mankind are taught that 
peace, kindness, and harmony are not only 





the duty but the happiness of the human 
race. 

From observing the hen and her chickens, 
Jack's attention was naturally drawn to the 
other tenants of the poultry-yard. The strut- 
ting turkey, the hissing gabbling goose, the 
waddling duck, the screaming Guinea-hen, 
and the fantastic peacock, each in turn be- 




came the subject of his investigation ; and 
each seemed to him to have a character and 
an interest peculiar to itself. If I had the 
power faithfully to paint all his feelings, and 
space to detail all his thoughts, I could make 
the story entertaining ; but I must content 
myself with a very general account of the 
matter. 

I believe there are very few persons who 



have not been often amused in pausing for a 
half hour, and noticing the various airs, man- 
ners, and customs of the feathered folks of 
the poultry-yard. The hen stealing to her 
nest, deposits her eggs, and then comes forth 
with an obstreperous cackle, to tell every 
body what she has been about. 

" Cut, 'cut cadaw cut 
Lay an egg every day, 
And have to go barefoot ! 

The restin he that is "cock of the walk" 
leads forth his bevy of hens, and when he 
finds a good fat grub, calls his favorites to 
come and feast on the delicate morsel. Like 
an old beau, he seems to prefer the happi- 
ness of the other sex to his own : his tones 
and manner are soft and insinuating, and he 
becomes the very personification of gallantry. 
While he is thus tender to the females of the 
flock, he is harsh and unsparing to his rivals 
of the masculine gender. If one of these 
comes near, he is sure to feel his spur, and 
after the rebuke to hear the shrill triumphant 
crow of the conqueror. 

The turkey-cock struts round and round, 



grating the ends of his wings upon the 
ground, and displaying his purple wattles, 
his crimson comb, and his black bristly beard, 
to the admiring gaze of the hens of his 
flock. The guinea-hen, creeping afar amid 
some thicket, comes running home with 
a terrible cry, as if thieves, robbers, and 
murderers were at hand ! The peacock, 
situated upon some conspicuous mound, 




spreads out his tail, set with a thousand 
gorgeous gems, and lost in self-admira- 
tion, appears to enjoy a sublime self-conceit. 
Amid all this exaltation, the vulgar duck is 
dabbling in the mud, only deigning to utter 
his quack, quack, quack, at intervals few and 
far between. At the same time the silent sen- 
timental goose is swimming upon the bosom 
of the muddy pool, perchance now and then 




plunging its long neck into the recesses of 
the element upon which it floats, happy if 
perchance some insect, lizard, or tadpole may 
reward its search. 

It is not to be supposed that these amus- 
ing scenes escaped the sharp observation of 
Inquisitive Jack. He indeed noticed the 
peculiarities of the several kinds of poultry : 
and had many a long conversation upon the 
subject with his aunt. We can only note the 
substance of what she told him. 

The domestic fowls are all the descendants 
of birds originally wild. The barn-door cock 
and hen came originally from Asia, and in 
some parts of India they are still to be met 
with, though their appearance is somewhat 
different from that of the tame breeds. The 
peacock came also from Asia ; and the gui- 
nea-hen from Africa. The duck is but a 
tame mallard, a bird which often is shot along 
our coasts. The honest goose is descended 
from the wild gray bird that is often seen in 
flocks in spring time, high in air, and in the 
shape of a triangle, wending their way to the 
far north, where they may breed in solitude, 
peace, and safety. 



The turkey is the only original bird of 
America among our poultry. It was found 
in the forests when the Europeans first visited 
this continent. It is less changed by domes- 
tication than any other bird ; if you were to 
see it in the wilds of the west, where flocks ot 
them are still common, you would think it 
only a timid turkey which had strayed from the 
farmyard. It is a strutting, vain, cowardly 
bird, though it is very good eating. The 
French call it dinde, and hence our word 
dandy, which means a vain, cowardly cox- 
comb. 







CHAPTER XVI. 

ABOUT BIRDS IN GENERAL. 
THE STORY OF DICK AND THE GIANT. 

OUR friend Jack having made himself 
familiar with the peculiarities of the domestic 
fowls, turned his attention to other species 
of birds. He noticed particularly those which 
seem to possess bold and confiding natures, 
such as the sparrows, that build upon the 




shrubs around the house ; the martins, that 
take up their abode in boxes which you make 
for them, and place near the eaves of your 
dwelling ; the swallows, that build in the 
barn ; and the cheerful robin, that loves to 
dwell in the apple-orchard. All these he ob- 
served with care, noticing their modes of 
building and rearing their young ; the food 
they ate, the cries they uttered, and in gene- 
ral their peculiar characteristics. From these 
Jack passed to other birds, and carefully stu- 
died them also. At last he was pretty well 
acquainted with the whole subject of birds, 
and now he observed several important things 
which I shall present to the attention of my 
readers. 

In the first place Jack was struck with ad- 
miration at the formation of birds. They are 
designed to raise themselves in the air, and 
to spend a considerable part of their time in 
that subtile element : and how wonderfully 
adapted to this purpose are they? In the 
first place a bird must have great strength, 
and yet great lightness ; and how happily are 
these united. Look at the quill of the wing, 
how strong and yet how light ! Who could 






have invented anything more admirably 
suited to rise on the breeze and cut its way 
through the air? Is there a human being 
who could make a single quill, even if the mo- 
del were placed before him ? Not one. 

And then look at the 
bones of the bird : these, 
instead of being solid, 
as in quadrupeds, are 
hollow. They are, there- 
fore, a great deal lighter 
than in other animals, 
while they are equally 
strong. And then ob- 
serve the structure of the 
bird's skeleton. What 
a wonderful and ingeni- 
ous piece of machinery. 
Look at the wing, how easily it opens and 
shuts, and thus at once lifts the bird upward 
and drives it forward, like an arrow, in its 
path. Look at the tail, destined, like the 
rudder of a ship, to direct its course : and 
how admirably it is turned this way and that, 
quick as thought, to guide the aerial voyager 
even among the intricacies of the forest ! 





Consider the feathery covering of the bird, 
designed to present a smooth surface, so as 
not to cause interruption in passing through 
the air ; and to furnish a coat as impervious 
to the water as India rubber, yet light as the 
gossamer. How wonderfully are these ob- 




jects attained ! And now let us reflect upon 
the wisdom of the Creator in designing a 
class of animals destined to soar aloft upon 
the air, and his power in accomplishing his 
purposes, as evinced in the structure of birds. 
How many millions of these beautiful crea- 
tures there are in the world ; how varied their 
forms ; how diversified the structure, habits, 


and instincts ! and yet let it be remembered 
that man, with all his art, cannot make a 
feather. 

The music of birds is a very curious and 
interesting phenomenon, not only on account 
of the admirable variety and sweetness of the 
songs they produce, but for the strength ol 
their voices. The lowing of the bull, or the 
roaring of the lion, cannot be heard at a 
greater distance than two miles, yet the little 
thrush can be heard half a mile. If quadru- 
peds had voices equal to those of birds, 
in proportion to their size, an elephant 
could easily be heard across the Atlantic 
ocean. 




The variety in the forms of birds is a sub- 
ject of great interest. How different is the 




duck, with its short legs, from the crane, 
which seems to be walking upon stilts ; the 
common barn door fowl, with its short neck, 
from the, flamingo, whose neck is almost a 
yard in length, and not half as thick as your 
wrist ! 




How different is the ostrich, which will 
carry a man ujfbn its back, from the little 
humming-bird, which seems scarcely larger 
than a humble-bee ! 

Who can look forth upon the landscape, 
and notice the feathered tribes, glancing from 
tree to tree, from bush to bush, delighting 





the eye with their pleasing forms and lovely 
hues ; and the ear with their charming melo- 
dy; and the heart with that aspect of life 
and cheerfulness which they throw over the 
meadow, forest, and field, and not lift up his 
thoughts to Heaven, and say " O Lord ! how 
manifest are thy works; in goodness and 
mercy hast thou made them all \" 

But I must not forget to say one thing 
more about Jack in this chapter. While he 
was studying the subject of birds, he was very 
fond of getting young ones, so that he might 
rear them ; he also caught several old ones, 
which he kept in cages. Now I believe that 
certain birds may be happy in cages, such as 
canaries, that are bred in confinement : but 
to catch wild birds and shut them up is very 
severe for the poor little creatures. 

Jack's aunt thought as I do about this 
matter; and one day she told her nephew 
the following story, which I commend to the 
attention of all bird-fanciers. 




Poor little Dick; what a gay blithe fel- 
low he was ! He used to go singing and 
whistling about nearly all day; he was 
always merry, and scarcely anything could 
make him sad. 

One day little Dick thought he would have 
a ramble in a large forest at some distance 
from his home. He had often been to the 
sides of it before, but it looked so dark he 
was afraid to enter. 

But Dick was more merry than usual on 
this day, for the sun shone so brightly, and 
the flowers looked so lovely, that he sang and 
whistled until he made the woods ring 
again. 

There was a clear brook running through 
the wood; and the waters looked so clean 
that Dicky, being very thirsty, stooped down 
to drink ; but at that moment he was sud- 
denly seized from behind, and found himself 






in the hands of a great, tall, 
fierce, ugly-looking giant, 
a hundred times as big as 
himself; for Dick was 
not much bigger than the 
giant's thumb. The giant 
lked at him with savage 
delight; his mouth opened 
wide, and he made a noise 
which seemed to Dick quite 
terrible. 

Dick thought the giant would have eaten 
him up alive at one mouthful ; he did not, 
however, do this, but put him into a large 
bag and carried him off. 

The poor little captive tried all he could 
to get out of the bag, but to no purpose, the 
giant held him fast. He screamed, he strug- 
gled, he tried to tear a passage the giant 
laughed, and carried him away. 
^ At last the giant came to his house a 
gloomy looking place, with a high wall all 
round it, and no trees nor flowers. When 
he got in he shut the door, and took Dick 
out of the bag. 

Dick now thought his time was come. 




When he looked round he saw a large fire, 
and before it hung four victims like himself 
roasting for the giant's supper. 

The giant, however, did not kill Dick ; he 
took him by the body, and gave him such a 
squeeze as gave him great pain ; he then 
threw him into a prison which he had pre- 
pared for him. It was quite dark, and iron 
bars were all round it, to prevent his getting 
out. 

Dick beat his head against the iron bars ; 
he dashed backwards and forwards in his 
dungeon, for he was almost driven mad. The 
giant gave him a piece of dry bread and a 
drop of water, and left him. 

The next day the "'giant came and looked, 
and found that Dick had eaten none of his 
bread; so he took him by the head, and 
crammed some of it down his throat, and 
seemed quite vexed to think that he would 
not eat. Poor Dick was too much frightened 
to eat and drink. 

He was left alone in the dark another day, 
and a sad day it was; the poor creature 
thought of his own home, his companions, 
the sun-light, the trees, and the many nice 



things he used to get to eat ; and then he 
screamed, and tried to get between the iron 
bars, and made his poor head and limbs sore 
in trying to get out. 

The giant came again, and wanted Dick 
to sing, (the same as he sung when he was at 
home,) and to be happy and merry. " Sing, 
sing, sing," said he; but poor Dick was 
much too sad to sing a prison is no place 
to sing songs in. 

The giant now seemed quite in a rage, and 
took Dick out to make him sing, as he said. 
Dick gave a loud scream, a plunge, a strug- 
gle, and sank dead in the giant's hand. 
Ah ! my young reader, poor Dick was a little 
bird, the giant was a cruel boy, and the prison 
was a birdcage. 




CHAPTER XVII. 

ABOUT QUADRUPEDS. 

I MUST tell you that Jack had now learned 
to read, and this was a source of great 
delight to him. It often happened that he 
could not go into the fields to study nature 
because the weather was stormy, or perhaps 
it was winter, and the ground was covered 
with snow. It is true that his aunt was gene- 
rally ready to answer his questions, and to 
give him information, but she could not attend 
to him always ; and besides he found that in 
books there were more exact and scientific 
accounts of birds, beasts, fishes, insects, and 
other things which interested him, than even 
aunt Mary could give. 

Thus Jack devoted a good deal of his time 
to reading, though he did not lay aside his 
habit of observing and investigating. This 
habit is very important, and I advise all my 




young friends to adopt and continue it, how- 
ever much they may read. Reading will 
indeed store the mind and make it full of 
knowledge; but observation and investiga- 
tion render that knowledge clear, distinct, 
and useful. So I wish to have every one 
follow Jack's plan, to read a great deal, but 
also to observe, think, and investigate a great 
deal. Thinking is to the mind what exercise 
is to the body, and makes it strong, sturdy, 
cheerful, and full of health. Thus my plan 
is that reading books and reading nature 
should go on together. Now I will tell you 
how Inquisitive Jack managed this. 

One day he was going through a little wood 
when he saw a squirrel running along upon 
the fence. It was of a reddish colour, and 
exceedingly nimble. It seemed almost to fly 
along the rails of the fence, and at last it 
mounted upon a tree. It then ran out upon 
the limbs and sprang to another tree. Thus 
it dashed from tree to tree almost like a bird, 
until at last it reached a large oak ; it now 
seemed to consider itself out of the reach of 
harm, and accordingly it began to chatter in 
the most extraordinary manner. There was 




something about it which made Jack feel 
that the fellow was making fun of him. He 
was annoyed at this, and picking up a stone 
he hurled it at the offender with all his force. 
The squirrel dodged the stone, ran up the 
tree a little higher, and chattered louder than 




ever. It seemed to say something like this : 
" Jack, Jack, you are a very silly fellow, get 
you gone, and leave the woods to me and my 
companions; Chickaree! Chickaree! Chick- 
aree ! Get you gone, Jack ! Chickaree \" 
While the squirrel was saying this, he flou- 




rished his long red tail, and seemed to be in 
a state of great agitation. 

When Jack went home he told his aunt 
about the squirrel ; but she did not know as 
much about squirrels as of bees, butterflies, 
and birds, and therefore she could not wholly 
satisfy his curiosity. He therefore consulted 
a book of natural history, and there he found 
a full account of the red squirrel or chickaree. 
He found it described just as he had seen it, 
and, furthermore, he learned that it was one 
of the most lively of the whole squirrel family ; 
that it lives upon nuts, is common in the 
forests of New England and the MMdle 
States, that it builds its nest in hollow tree^. 
and lays up a store of its favourite fruit against 
the winter season. 

Now you will be able to see the advantage 
of combining observation with reading. Jack 
had seen the squirrel; he had noticed its 
colour, form, air, and manners. He had, 
therefore, distinct and indelible impressions 
respecting these things ; so when he began 
to read about this squirrel it was of something 
he had seen ; something of which he had a 
lively knowledge; something associated in 




his mind with his walk through the woods, 
and the pleasure of a ramble. He read, there- 
fore, with a keen delight ; he understood what 
he read ; he remembered it all, and he was in- 
cited to go on and pursue the subject, till at 
last he had read the story of the whole squir- 
rel family red, black, and gray. 

I tell you this just to give you a specimen 
of Jack's way of combining observation with 
reading. And now I must tell you about 
another thing which I have alluded to before. 
It would seem that notions resemble boys ; 
they do not like to be alone. One idea wants 
another, and several ideas want a good many 
others. You show a child a beautiful shell : 
it gives him a new idea, and that immediately 
suggests a desire of other ideas, and so he 
asks "Who made the shell?" "Where did 
the shell come from?" "What is it made 
of ?" &c. 

I will give you another instance of the 
manner in which Jack reflected on what 
he saw. One day he was strolling through 
the fields at a distance from any house when 
he saw a large hawk pounce down upon a 
rabbit. The talons of the bird pierced the 





very heart of the little animal : it was almost 
instantly killed and borne away by the de- 
stroyer, struggling, however, in the pangs of 
death. As it was carried over his head, Jack 
noticed the four legs of the rabbit, and he 
began to reflect upon the fact that a hawk 
has two legs and a rabbit four. Having made 
this comparison, he proceeded to make 
others ; and now it struck him, for the first 




time, that the whole feathered race were two- 
legged creatures, while rabbits, squirrels, 
cats, dogs, pigs, foxes, lions, tigers, cows, 
horses, and elephants are four-legged crea- 
tures. As he was thus ruminating upon this 
matter, he happened to take up his book, 
and he there found that the animal creation 
are divided into groups, called orders, classes, 
&c. according to their formation. 



He learned that four-legged animals, called 
quadrupeds, form one great class ; that birds 
form another class ; fishes another ; reptiles 
another ; and insects still another. And in 
pursuing this subject, he found that each 
class was divided into many families or kinds ; 
among the quadrupeds he found the family 
of the cats, including old puss in the corner, 
as well as the lynx, cougar, leopard, tiger, 
and lion. He learned that among the bears 
there are many kinds, and also among the 
wolves and foxes. 

And now a new source of interest grew 
up in Jack's mind : this classifying of ani- 
mals became intensely interesting. He loved 
to compare one kind with another ; to note 
the resemblances and differences ; to observe 
the influence of climate, and see how nature 
had diversified her works so as to adapt every- 
thing to the purposes it was designed to ac- 
complish. Thus at every step his knowledge 
increased, and became more permanently 
fixed in his mind ; while the interest he took 
in study was enhanced even in a greater 
degree. 







CHAPTER XVIII. 



GEOLOGY. 

JACK was one day passing by a place where 
some men were digging to make a road 
through a steep hill. He stopped to watch 
them for a while without any particular ob- 
ject in view ; but his attention was soon fixec 1 
by his observing that amongst the earth 
thrown down there were great numbers of 
shells, most of them broken, and here and 
there a tooth and a piece of bone. He imme- 
diately set to work to find the most perfect 
shells he could, and the best teeth, to show 
to his aunt, and soon filled his pockets. 

As he went towards home, and thought on 
the subject, it appeared to him more and 
more strange that these shells should exist 
in a place far removed from the sea, or any 




lake or river, and in the midst of a large hill. 
He could not in any way imagine how they 
got there, and he hastened home, impatient 
to ask his aunt for a solution of the diffi- 
culty. 

His aunt told him that the facts which he 
had observed were indeed very wonderful, 
though not singular, and that what she had 
to say on the subject would not make him 
wonder less, though it might increase his 
knowledge. She told him that there are very 
few spots on the surface of the earth which 
do not bear decided marks of having been 
once covered by the sea, and that there is 
good reason to believe that the whole was 
once under water. To no other circumstance 
can be ascribed the existence of shells on the 
highest hills, as well as in the valleys, and far 
beneath the surface. 

" But what are these teeth ?" said Jack. 
" They are shark's teeth," replied his aunt ; 
"in some parts they are found in much 
greater abundance than where you discovered 
them." 

" But how is it that I could discover none 
of the bones of the fish ?" inquired Jack. 



"Because/' said his aunt, "the teeth of 
animals are covered with a very hard and 
durable enamel, which often preserves them 
long after the bones have decayed; and be- 
sides this, the bones of sharks are very soft, 
being rather gristle than bone." 




" Amongst these shells/' said Jack, " I 
think there are some such as I have never 
seen before." 

"Very likely," rejoined his aunt; " for one 
of the most interesting points in the history 
of the animals of which we find the teeth, 
bones, and shells in the strata of the earth is 
that many of them are different from any 
which now exist on the surface of the globe. 
I will show you some pictures of some of 
the most remarkable of these creatures, and 
their skeletons." 





" But how," said Jack, " can any one make 
out the form of an animal merely from its 
bones, so as to draw a picture of it ; and the 
odd-looking creature you have shown me 
has a fleshy-looking trunk like an elephant, 
which of course must have perished?" 




" Yes," said his aunt, " it has perished : 
and nothing is known of the creature but 
what has been gathered from its bones. But 
I will tell you how this has been done, and 
you will then see that we have something 
like certain ground to go upon. Anatomists 
compare the teeth of one animal with the teeth 
of another, and the bones of one with the 
bones of another. From this they find that 





certain kinds of teeth and a certain form of 
bones are always connected with certain par- 
ticulars in the outward form. Thus a very 
strong short neck, with the bones of a pecu- 
liar form are found in the elephant, and are 
plainly required to support his large head 
with the heavy trunk attached. A similar 
neck in the animal I showed you has led ana- 
tomists to conclude that he also had a trunk, 
and the conjecture is confirmed by the form 
of the skull, the tusks of which you will see 
grow downwards instead of upwards like 
those of the elephant. 




This skull may be seen in the British Mu- 
seum : the animal is called the Dinotherium, 






and must have been larger than any land 
animal now living, the body being eighteen 
feet in length. 




" This is the skeleton of the Megatherium, 
an animal of the sloth kind, but larger than 
an ox, and, as it is supposed, covered with 
a hard covering, something like that of the 
armadillo. You will observe his peculiar 
feet, which are the most striking point in 
which he resembles the sloth." 



" But what is this odd-looking bird ?" said 
Jack. 

" It is the Dodo, a bird of the duck tribe, 
which was found by some early 
Dutch navigators in the island 
of Mauritius, nearly four hun- 
dred years ago. Several stuffed 
specimens of it were brought to 
Europe, but of these only a few 
fragments now remain, and the 
race of the bird itself has become quite ex- 
tinct in Mauritius. 





Here is a picture of a head and foot 
preserved in the Museum at Oxford." 





" This represents the skeleton of a very 
large kind of deer or elk, called the Gigantic 
Elk, and well it deserved the name, for it was 




considerably larger than the largest horse, 
and, as you perceive, had very broad spread- 
ing horns. Its remains are found abundantly 
in Ireland. 





"This is the picture of the bones of a large 
sort of bat, more than a foot in length, with 




a long neck like a swan, and a large long 
head something resembling that of a croco- 
dile. 




"This sketch shows the position of the 
bones when the creature was flying, and 




from it you may judge something of its 
remarkable appearance when alive. 

(( The next is the skeleton of a crocodile, 
is it not ?" asked Jack. 

" No/ 5 said his aunt, " it bears very little 
resemblance to a crocodile, except in its 
general form. It is called the Icthyosaurus, 
or fish-lizard. 

t( It presents a very curious 
combination of structure : there 
is the back bone of a fish, and 
the fins of a seal or whale, the 
eye of an eagle, and the mouth 
and tail of a lizard/ 5 

"But how can you know 
anything regarding its eye, 15 
said Inquisitive Jack. 

" The socket of the eye was 
fitted with certain small bones, 
still preserved in the skeleton, 
as you may see in the picture, 
which were drawn together, or 
relaxed by means of muscles, 
so as to render the eye more 
or less convex, to enable the 
animal to see things with equal 





clearness whether they were near or far off. 
You can see an illustration of the power 
which this arrangement must have given 
him, if you compare the different focus of 
a very convex magnifying glass with one that 
is less so." 

The Plesiosaurus, or animal 
like a lizard, was something 
like the Icthyosaurus, but it 
had a more slender body and a 
very long neck, with a small 
head. The neck contains many 
more bones than that of any 
creature living, and is therefore 
different from the neck of the 
swan, or of the curious bat-like 
creature that I showed you the 
picture of. There are several va- 
rieties of plesiosaurus : opposite 
is the picture of one less slen- 
der in its form than the other, 
and with the bones in the posi- 
tion in which they were origi- 
nally found." 
Jack looked at the pictures for a long time, 
and was so much interested with what he 




saw that he immediately determined on stu- 
dying geology. It semed to him as if a new 
world had been opened to his investigation ; 




and to this world underground he soon 
began to apply his old habits of observing 
and thinking, and seldom passed a gravel-pit 
or a cliff without finding something that 
added to his stock of knowledge. 






CHAPTER XIX. 

ABOUT POETRY AND OTHER THINGS. 

I HAVE now told you how Jack became a 
naturalist, so far as to understand animals. 
I might proceed and tell you how he learned 
a great deal about plants and flowers, and 
thus became a botanist. But I suspect my 
readers have heard enough on this part of 
his history. I will now tell a little about 
the manner in which Jack became acquainted 
with some other things. 

One winter's day, as he and his aunt were 
sitting by a pleasant fire, Jack had been 


reading in a book of poetry. After a while, 
he laid down the book, and asked his aunt 
why some things are told in poetry and some 
in prose. To this the good lady replied as 
follows : 

te I must tell you in the first place, my boy, 
that prose is the language of common speech, 
such as I am now talking to you. But there 




are certain thoughts and feelings that are too 
fine and beautiful for prose. If these were 
expressed in a common way their beauty 
would be lost. I will try to make you un- 
derstand this by a story. 

" There were once some flowers growing in 
a garden, but they were mixed with other 
plants, such as peas, beans, potatoes, beets, 
and other things. These had, therefore, a 


common appearance, and no one noticed their 
beauty. At length the gardener took up 
these flowers, and set them out in a nice bed 
of earth which he had prepared for them. 
This situation permitted their bright colours 
and fair forms to be seen, and they therefore 
attracted the attention of every person who 
passed by. 

" Everybody admired them, and those who 
overlooked them as common things when 
planted in a kitchen garden were ready to 
acknowledge their beauty and praise their 
fragrance, when they were flourishing in a 
flower garden. Thus, you perceive, that I 
compare fine thoughts to flowers ; however 
beautiful they may be, they would strike us 
less and please us less if they were presented 
in a common way. They want a situation 
appropriate to them, and then we shall per- 
ceive and feel their full beauty. 

"Poetry, then, consists of beautiful thoughts 
in beautiful language, and may be compared 
to a bed of flowers, with graceful forms, 
bright colours, and sweet fragrance. Prose 
consists of common thoughts expressed in 
common language, and may be compared to 



a garden filled with things that are useful 
rather than beautiful, such as beets, potatoes, 
and cabbages." 

Jack listened with great attention to what 
his aunt had been saying, and then he 
rubbed his head as if he were puzzled, and 
did not exactly understand her. He then 
spoke as follows. 

" Well, aunt, all this is very strange that 
you have been telling me. I thought poetry 
was only a string of verses, with rhymes at 
the end of them, such as hop top, butter mut- 
ter, eater Peter, &c. I have made some 
verses myself, and I thought these were 
poetry, and pretty good poetry too." 

" Well," said his aunt, " let me hear your 
verses, and I will then tell you whether they 
are poetry or not/' " I will repeat them all,*' 
said Jack, " if you will promise not to laugh." 
" Go on," said his aunt, " I shall not laugh if 
I can help it." Jack then proceeded as 
follows : 

" The dog sat down to eat his bone, 
The cat went out to walk alone, 
The bird was singing on the bough, 
The bell was tinkling on the cow. 





The leaves were all upon the trees, 

The grass was on the ground, 
The butterfly was on the breeze, 

A pint doth weigh a pound. 

A ghost was walking in a lane, 
'T was night, and all was still, 

A fly was on the window-pane, 
The pigs did want their swill ! 

When he got to this point, his aunt Mary 
laughed outright, aud Jack declared that she 
had broken her promise, and he would not 
repeat another verse. He sat for some time 
with a pouting and offended air. At length 
his aunt went on to speak in the following 
manner: " I hope you will excuse me, dear 
Jack, for laughing, but I could not well help 
it. Your idea of poetry is like that of other 
children, and I think your first attempt is 
quite as successful as that of most persons. 
But I will tell you a little more about poetry, 
and then you will, perhaps, understand the 
subject better. 

" Almost all nations, let them be ever so 
ignorant, have some poets amongst them. 
The first poetry they make is in praise of 
what they see, the sun, and moon, and stars ; 
the trees, and flowers, and the rivers. 




" Then they begin to compare things to- 
gether that are beautiful ; they say that the 
cheeks of a blooming young girl are like the 
rose, and that her eyes are as blue as the 
sky. They compare man to a tall, well- 
formed tree, and they go on rinding out a 
likeness in a great many things that at first 
we hardly think of as resembling each other. 
When they see a person in a passion, they 
say he is like the ocean in a storm. The 
more power they have of discovering these 
resemblances, the better poets they are. Chil- 
dren very often think, when they make 
rhymes, such as hat bat, hop top, &c., that 
they are making poetry, but they are making 
nothing but rhymes. 

" It is very pleasant to have rhymes at the 
end of every line of poetry ; but the poetry 
does not consist in rhymes. I will repeat to 
you some Hindoo poetry, that was translated 
from the Hindoo language ; perhaps it was 
in rhyme before it was translated. 

" 'As a tree is the lord of the forest, even so is man ; his 
hairs are as leaves, his skin is like the outer bark. 

" Through the skin flows blood ; through the rind of 
the tree flows sap : when a man is wounded blood gushes 
forth, as the sap from a tree that is cut. 





" ' His muscles are like interwoven fibres ; the membrane 
round his bones is the inward bark ; his bones are as the bard 
pieces of wood within ; their marrow is composed of pith. 

" * Since the tree when it is cut down springs again still 
fresher from the root, from what root springs man, when be 
is cut down by the hand of death? 

" ' He springs no more upon earth, but he lives with God 
>n heaven, who is perfect wisdom, perfect happiness.' " 

When his aunt Mary had recited these 
verses of poetry without rhymes. Jack 
asked her why rhymes were ever used. To 
this she answered in the following words. 
" Rhymes, my dear Jack, are like music, 
which, you know, is pleasant to the ear. Do 
you not remember a song, a prayer, or story, 
that is in rhyme, better than one that is not ? 
Why is this? Because it strikes the ear 
pleasantly, and touches the heart as if it were 
the voice of some sweet friend. I have often 
compared poetry, in my own mind, to one 
whom we love ; one whose voice is dearer 
than any other; one who speaks to us in 
sweet and musical words, that cling to the 
memory, and linger with us through life." 

" Well, aunt/' said Jack, his face bright- 
ening up, "I think I understand it now. 
Whenever I think of poetry, I shall think of 




you. You shall be my muse ; and I know 
that I shall never want for bright thoughts, 
and pleasant sentiments, if I have such a 
source of inspiration. But, dear aunt, as you 
have recited some poetry without rhymes, 
will you not recite some with rhymes V 9 t( I 
will, with great pleasure/ 5 said she, and ac- 
cordingly she repeated the following verses : 




!< One morn in May, a maiden did say 
To a bird on a tree, ' Come go with me ! 
Come little bird, come quick to my home, 
I will give you to eat everything sweet. 
Sugar and cake I will save for your sake ; 
Melon and plum, you shall have some ; 
A peach and a pear, and everything rare ; 
Some straw for your nest, and what you like best.' 




Thus the little girl said, as she heaved a deep sigh, 
But the bird shook his head, and thus made reply : 
' I thank you, my dear, but I would rather live hero, 
The skies they are fair, and I love, the fresh air ; 
The trees they are green, and I sit like a queen, 
On a branch as it goes while the pleasant wind blows. 
I have more on my table to eat than I am able, 
For the very large field my dinner does yield. 
But come from your book, with a good-humoured look, 
When with care you have read, and your lesson is said ; 
Sit under the tree, with your sewing, by me, 
And this afternoon I will sing you a tune.' " 

Having repeated these lines, the lady told 
Jack that she would repeat some beautiful 
poetry in blank verse, which is poetry without 
rhyme, but with the words arranged in a cer- 
tain musical order, and in lines containing 
ten syllables each. 



THE ARK AND DOVE. 

IN THE FOLLOWING LINES, A MOTHER IS TELLING HOW SHE 
TOLD THE STORY OF THE ARK AND DOVE TO HER LITTLE 
GIRL. 

" ' Tell me a story, please,' my little girl 

Lisped from her cradle. So I bent me down 
And told her how it rained, and rained, and rained, 
Till all the flowers were;-covered, and the trees 
Hid their tall heads, and, where the houses stood, 
And people dwelt, a fearful deluge rolled ; 





Because the world was wicked, and refused 
To heed the words of God. But one good man, 
Who long had warned the wicked to repent 
Obey and live, taught by the voice of heaven, 
Had built an ark ; and thither, with his wife 
And children, turned for safety. Two and two, 
Of beasts, and birds, and creeping things, he took, 
With food for all ; and when the tempest roared, 
And the great fountains of the sky poured out 
A ceaseless flood, till all beside were drowned, 
They in their quiet vessel dwelt secure. 
And so the mighty waters bare them up, 
And o'er the bosom of the deep they sailed 
For many days. But then a gentle dove 
Scaped from the casement of the ark, and spread 
Her lovely pinion o'er that boundless wave. 
Nor face of man, nor living thing, she saw ; 
For all the people of the earth were drowned, 
Because of disobedience. Nought she spie<l 
Save wide dark waters, and a frowning sky, 
Nor found her weary foot a place of rest. 
So, with a leaf of olive in her mouth, 
Sole fruit of her dear voyage, which perchance 
Upon some wrecking billow floated by, 
With drooping wing, the peaceful ark she sought. 
The righteous man that wandering dove received, 
And to her mate restored, who, with sad moans, 
Had wondered at her absence. Then I looked 
Upon the child, to see if her young thoughts 
Wearied with following mine. But her blue 63 e 
Was a glad listener, and the eager breath 
Of pleased attention curled her parted lip. 
And so I told her how (he waters dried, 


And the green branches waved, and the sweet buds 
Came up in loveliness, and that meek dove 
Went forth to build her nest, while thousand birds 
Awoke their songn of praise, and the tired ark, 
Upon the breezy breast of Ararat 
Reposed, and Noah, with glad spirit, reared 
An altar to his God. 

" Since, many a time, 
When to her rest, ere evening's earliest star, 
That little one is laid, with earnest tone, 
And pure cheek prest to mine, she fondly asks, 
' The Ark and Dove.' " 

Such is the story of the Ark and Dove. 
You will find it beautifully told in the Bible, 
in the eighth chapter of Genesis. I wish you 
would read it there, and then look at this 
beautiful poetry again. 







CHAPTER XX. 

ABOUT TRUE STORIES AND FICTITIOUS 
STORIES, FABLES, FAIRIES, &C. 

WHEN his aunt had repeated the verses in 
the preceding chapter, Jack remarked that 
they were very pretty, and that he liked them 
much. " But/ 5 said he, "how is it, aunt, 
that the little girl, in the lines about the girl 
and bird, spoke to the bird, and the bird an- 
swered her? I did not know that a bird 
could understand poetry, or could compose 
verses. 55 

u I am very glad to hear you make this 
remark, 55 said aunt Mary, " for it shows that 
you reflect upon what I tell you. The little 
story about the girl and the bird is not a fact, 
but it is what we call a fictitious story. 55 

" But is it right, 55 said Jack, " to tell stories 
that are not true ? I thought it was wicked 
to tell falsehoods." 




"It is wicked, my dear nephew, to tell 
falsehoods, but do you know what a falsehood 
is ?" " I suppose it is something that is not 
true," said Jack. 

" Not exactly so,' 5 replied his aunt ; " any 
attempt at deception is a lie. If you try to 
make a person believe what is not true, either 
by look, word, or deed, you attempt to deceive 
him, and are thus guilty of falsehood. Now 
this is very wicked ; but when I tell you a 
fictitious story, my design is only to amuse 
and instruct you, not to deceive you, by 
making you really believe that what I tell 
you has actually taken place. Do you now 
understand why a fictitious story is not a 
falsehood 1" 

" Yes,' 5 said Jack, " because it is not in- 
tended to deceive. But, aunt, I want to ask 
you a question. The other day I was looking 
for my pet lamb, which had got out of the 
field and gone away. I was looking for it 
along the public road, when I met Bill Hider. 
I as"ked him if he had seen my lamb, and he 
said yes. I asked him which way it had 
gone, and he pointed along the road to the 
east. Now I afterwards found out that the 



lamb had gone the other way, and Bill Hider 
knew it. He pointed the wrong way just to 
deceive me, and give me trouble. Was not 
that a lie?" "Yes/' said aunt Mary, "just 
as much a lie as if he had spoken it with his 
lips.' 




" Well, I thought so," said Jack, " and I 
told Bill Hider so afterwards, and he said it 
w r as not a lie, because he only pointed his 
finger. And now, aunt, I want to ask you 
another question. Do not you remember 
that you gave me a large apple the day before 
yesterday ?" 

"Yes." 

t( Well, I put it under my desk,- at school, 
and left it there, while I came home to dinner. 
When I got back, it was gone. I asked Bill 





Hider if he knew what had become of it. He 
did not say anything, but he just opened his 
mouth, and put his finger down his throat, 
and then pointed to Seth Simple, as much as 
to say that Seth had eaten it. I afterwards 
found out that Bill Hider had eaten it him- 
self. Now was not it a falsehood in him to 
try to deceive me in this way. 5 ' 

" Certainly it was, and a very wicked one, 
because his object was to conceal his own 
theft, and make his innocent companion ap- 
pear to be guilty of the crime. Let this little 
incident, my dear Jack, teach you an impor- 
tant lesson. Falsehood is usually a mere 
artifice to conceal some other crime. It is, 
therefore, a dangerous vice, and one who 
practises it is sure to be despised." 

The next day, after the conversation I have 
just related, as soon as Jack met his aunt in 
the breakfast room, and bade her good morn- 
ing, he said to her, that he had been thinking a 
great deal about what she had told him the 
night before. "But/' said he, " I have one more 
question to ask you; pray, what is a fable ?" 

" A fable," said his aunt, " is a little story, 
in which dogs, cats, foxes, horses, trees, 





plants, and flowers, are imagined to think and 
speak like human beings. The object of a 
fable is to impress some useful lesson upon 
the mind.'* 




" Well, aunt," said Jack, " I am much 
obliged to you for your answer. You call 
me Inquisitive Jack, because I ask so many 
questions ; but I think it is the best way in 
the world. Some boys are ashamed to ask 
questions, for they say it makes them appear 



ignorant, but I had rather appear ignorant 
than be ignorant. Do you know, aunt, that 
I have puzzled myself a hundred times with 
the question, whether animals that we read 
of in fables really do think and act as they 
are said to do. Now, I might have saved 
myself all this trouble, and confusion of mind, 
had I sooner asked you the real meaning of 
a fable." 

ee You are quite right, my boy," said his 
aunt; "young people ought not to be ashamed 
to ask reasonable questions, and older people 
should always be willing to answer them." 

" That is very true, aunt," said Jack, " and 
I hope you will be as good as your word, and 
answer all my questions ; and as you are so 
good to me, I should like to do all I can to 
repay you. Should not you like me to tell 
you a fable, aunt T 9 

To this inquiry the lady nodded assent, 
and Jack then repeated the following fable 
of a fish-pond, the object of which is to per- 
suade everybody that it is much better to 
live m peace than in strife. 





"There was once a beautiful little fish- 
pond, surrounded by hills. The water was 
so bright and clear, that you could see the 
white pebbles at a great depth, as they lie 
at the bottom. Along the border there were 
trees of various kinds ; they hung over the 




water, and cast their shadows upon its sur- 
face. There were also beautiful flowers 
around the pond ; some of them standing in 
the edge of the \vater, and some of them 
standing upon the banks, but stooping over, 
as if to take a peep into the water, and see 
their bright forms reflected there, as in a 
mirror. 

" Well, in this beautiful pond lived a great 




many fishes. There were little, short fishes, 
partly of a brown and partly of a golden 
colour, called bream ; and there were perch, 
also of a golden colour, marked with black 
streaks, and of a long, slender form. And 
there were shiners, that glistened like pieces 
of money, and there were bull-heads, with 
sharp horns, and pike, and many other kinds. 
Now these fishes lived in a very beautiful 
place, and, as they had plenty to eat, they 
were perfectly happy. 

t( When the weather was cold, they went 
to the middle of the pond, where the sun 
shone and made the water warm ; and when 
it was too hot, they cooled themselves in the 
shadows of the trees and rocks. A great part 
of the time they spent in playing ; sometimes 
they would chase each other about, seeming 
to glide along as easily as the birds glide 
through the air. Sometimes you might see 
them in the clear water, sporting about among 
the sedges and rushes that grew in the margin 
of the pond ; and then again you might see 
them jumping up to catch the bubbles or in- 
sects that floated on the top of the water. 

" Now this was a pleasant life, and nothing 





could be happier than these little fishes. 
But at length they began to quarrel with 
each other. The bream insisted that one 
part of the pond belonged to them, while the 
perch declared that it did not belong to the 
bream, but to themselves. While the perch 
and the bream were thus at strife, the bull- 
heads and the pike also could not agree. 
Their difficulty arose from a pretence on the 
part of the bull-heads that they were much 
handsomer than the pike. This was con- 
sidered very insulting, and was bitterly re- 
sented by all the pike family, old and young, 
boys and girls, men and women. 

" Dissention thus begun; it grew worse and 
worse, until all the inhabitants of the pond 
were soon involved in the quarrel, one way 
or another. Even those who had nothing to 
do with it at first, soon became parties, and 
at length the eels, and frogs, and tadpoles got 
to fighting about it. In this way, the happy 
little people of the pond became very miser- 
able. Instead of gliding about in peace or in 
play, they now met only to struggle and 
fight, and very often it happened that some 
of them were killed in the fray. 




"Now I should have told you that this pond 
belonged to a rich man, who, so long as the 
fishes lived together in peace, allowed it to re- 
main ; but, now that they were perpetually 
quarrelling, he determined to destroy it. So 
one day he had a drain cut in such a manner 
as to let off the water of the pond. In this 
way it was entirely drained, and all the little 
fishes perished. Bream, bull-heads, perch, 
pike, eels, frogs, and tadpoles, all were left 
upon the ground, and died by the heat of the 
sun. Such was the fate of these fishes. As 
long as they lived in peace, they were happy, 
but, when strife came among them, their hap- 
piness ceased; and finally, as their quarrelling 
continued, they were entirely destroyed/ 5 

When Jack had finished the fable, his aunt 
spoke as follows : " This is a very good 
fable, Jack, and I think it shows the folly of 
quarrelling very well. I think you can now 
see that, although a fable is a fictitious story, 
its object is to inculcate truth, and not to de- 
ceive. When you read a fable or a fictitious 
story, you should always try to find out the 
truth that is intended to be conveyed." 






In the evening, when Jack and his aunt 
were seated by the fire, the boy began, as 
usual, by asking a question. 

"You have told 
me, aunt, about 
fables and fancy 
tales, said he, now 
I want to know 
something about 
fairies and fairy 
tales ; are there 
really such crea- 
tures as fairies?" 

" No, Jack/' 
said the lady, 
u fairies are mere 
beings of imagi- 
nation. People 
used to believe in 
their actual exist- 
ence : they were 
thought to be 
lively little people 


who had the power of passing from place to 
place, with the quickness of thought. Some of 
them were imagined to be good, spending 
their time in watching over kind and vir- 
tuous people ; others were fancied to be evil 
spirits, busily engaged in working out mis- 
chief against mankind. 

ce Ignorant people used not only to believe 
in the existence of fairies, but they fancied 
that they often saw them dancing by the 
moonlight, in some grassy valley, or tripping, 
light as air, over the rippling surface of the 
moonlit lake. There have been a great many 
tales told about fairies, most of which serve 
to amuse the fancy, but they are seldom as 
useful as those homely fables which convey 
some moral truth to the heart. I will, how- 
ever, tell you a fairy story from which you 
may draw some instruction. 

" In a pleasant valley, between two hills, 
there once lived a beautiful fairy, by the name 
of Echo. The place was very pleasant, for a 
bright river swept through the valley, beneath 
trees with long branches overshadowing its 
waters. 

" There were many flowers scattered along 



its banks, some with graceful forms, and 
others with brilliant colours. The air was 
filled with sweet perfumes, and the voice of 
musical birds was heard on every side. It 
was no wonder that in a place so pleasant the 
pretty fairy should have chosen her abode, 
and that she was ever found at home. 

" But one of her peculiarities was this, that 
whenever a person spoke in a loud voice in 
the valley, the sound was caught up by the 
fairy, and repeated to the rocks and hills 
around. 

" Now it happened that there was a little 
boy who lived near this valley, who was very 
passionate. One day, he went to this place 
where Echo lived, with one of his companions, 
and for a long time was busily engaged in 
picking flowers along the margin of the little 
stream. He was so intent upon this, that he 
wandered away from his playmate, and at 
length got lost amid the trees and shrubs. 
He now became alarmed, and, not being able 
to see his companion in any direction, he 
called for him in a very angry tone of voice. 
The fairy immediately imitated the sound, 
and repeated it to the woods, hills, and waters 




of the valley. The little boy thought at first 
that this was his companion, mocking him, 
and it made him very angry. He then called 
out louder than before, and used some very 
harsh expressions, finishing with the word 
6 rascal.' These were all faithfully repeated 
by the fairy, and particularly the last word, 
which was uttered again and again, until even 
the most distant rocks and woods seemed to 
repeat it. 

" This startled the boy very much, for it 
appeared all at once that everything around, 
even the woods and hills, were calling him a 
rascal. 
I think you are very rude,' said he, 
spitefully. ' You are very rude !' said the 
fairy, in return. c Do not insult me,' said 
the boy. *Do not insult me !' said the fairy. 
By this time, the boy was out of all patience, 
and he began to cry. At that moment, a 
pretty little lady came out from a bunch of 
bushes, close by, and spoke to the boy as 
follows : 

" e Listen to me, lad ; you have got lost in 
these woods, and, instead of blaming your- 
self, you get angry at your innocent com- 





panion. You are very silly, but I will be 
your friend. 

" * You have been brought here by my di- 
rection, that I might teach you a useful 
lesson. You are accustomed to use angry 
words, and I wish to show you that these 
beget anger in others. If you call your play- 
mate a rascal, he will call you a rascal in re- 
turn. Speak gently and kindly, my boy, to 




your friends, and you will then beget love in 
the hearts of all ; but if you are fierce, loud, 
and passionate, remember that there is an 
echo in the hearts of those around you, that 
will return back to your ears the saucy words 
you have uttered, as truly as the Echo of the 




valley will repeat the loud words spoken in 
her ear/ 

" Saying this, the little fairy took hold of 
the boy's hand, led him out of the wood, and, 
pointing towards his home, vanished into air/' 

Now, although this is a fictitious story, and 
though there is no such little woman as this 
imaginary fairy in the woods, still there is 
such a thing as an echo. 

This, however, is a mere sound, caused by 
a shaking or vibration of the air ; but it often 
seems to repeat your words, two or three 
times over, particularly if you speak loud. 
Such echos are very common among the hills 
and valleys. 






CHAPTER XXL 

ABOUT DWARFS, GIANTS, ETC. 

WHEN his aunt had finished this story of 
Echo the fairy of the valley, Jack said he 
was very much pleased with it, and he thought 
it a very useful story. u It will always make 
me remember," said he, " not to call hard 
names ; for, if I should do so, I should ex- 
pect that Echo would get into the mouth of 
the one I spoke to, and send me back words 
as rough as my own. 

" Really, aunt," continued the boy, "I am 
delighted with the idea of fairies, skipping 
about by moonlight, and dancing upon the 
green grass. What a happy life they would 
lead, gliding like humming-birds, from place 
to place, and always choosing their abodes in 
fragrant valleys, and along the flowery banks 
of sparkling rivers ! I am sorry that these 
fairy tales are not true. But, aunt, I have 
heard of giants, and dwarfs, and genii, and 




other beings that are imagined to have great 
power; are none of the tales about these 
beings true ? 

" Most of these tales are mere fictions, and 
have no other object than to please the imagi- 
nation, or, like fables, to impart moral instruc- 
tion. But we read of giants in the Bible, 
and in the early ages of mankind there seem 
to have been races of men who were twice as 
large as those of the present day. You re- 
member the story of Goliath an d David, in 
the 1 7th chapter of the first book of Samuel." 
" I remember it very well/* said Jack, " and 
it is a very pleasant story. You have told it 
to me, aunt, several times ; but I wish you 
would repeat it again, for I am never tired of 
hearing Bible stories." 

"Very well," said his aunt, " I will tell it 
to you, and with the more pleasure, because 
you seem interested in the Bible. It is indeed 
the best of all books ; it is not only full of 
interesting stories, but every page is calcu- 
lated to make us wiser and better. There is 
no surer way to be happy than to study the 
Bible, and obey its commands. I will now 
tell you of David and Goliath. 


"About three thousand years ago, the 
nation, called the children of Israel, were 
governed by a king, called Saul. Near them 
lived a nation of Philistines, who were a war- 
like people, and took every occasion to do 
mischief to the Israelites. 

f( Well, once upon a time, these two na- 
tions, being engaged in war, had drawn out 
their armies for battle. The Philistines co- 
vered one side of a mountain, and the Israel- 
ites another, with a valley between them. 
There were a great many thousand men on 
each side, and these were armed with spears, 
and shields and battle-axes. 

"The two armies were so near, that they 
could see each others' tents covering the 
slopes of the hills. Thus the armies were 
pitched against each other, preparing for the 
hour of battle. But one day a strange sight 
appeared. An enormous giant came forth 
from the Philistine camp, armed with a coat 
of mail, a cap of brass, and a mighty spear. 
Before him went a man, bearing a shield. 
The name of this giant was Goliath. 

" When the Israelites saw him they were 
amazed, and stood back in fear. Goliath 



then lifted up his voice, and called upon the 
Israelites to send their strongest man to fight 
with him. But no one of the Israelites dared 
to fight with the giant. 

" The next day Goliath again made his ap- 
pearance in the valley, and again challenged 
the Israelites as before. This was done morn- 
ing and evening for forty days, and Saul could 
find no one among all his soldiers who would 
venture to do battle with Goliath. 

" But at length an event happened which 
attracted the attention of both armies. 
Goliath had appeared, as usual, in the valley, 
and uttered his haughty challenge. He was 
talking very loud, when a young Israelite, 
by the name of David, was seen at no great 
distance. He was without helmet, or shield, 
or spear, and, as compared with the giant, 
was a mere stripling. 

"He, however, lifted up his voice, and 
answered to the challenge of Goliath. ( I 
come not/ said he, 'in my own strength, but 
I come in the name of that God whom we, 
the people of Israel, worship, and he will 
deliver thee this day into my hands. 3 

" To this Goliath replied with a sneer, and 





set out to meet David. The latter showed 
no sign of fear, but bravely advanced to meet 
his awful enemy. As he went along, he took 
a smooth round stone from a shepherd's bag 
at his side, and placed it in a sling which he 
held in his hand. 

te Fixing his eye stea- 
dily upon the giant, 
he whirled the sling 
around his head, and 
sent the whizzing stone 
through the air. It 
struck the giant in the 
forehead, and he fell 
dead to the earth. 

" Thus a boy, with- 
out spear or shield, 
conquered the chief 

warrior of the Philistine army ; and thus we 
perceive that he who places his confidence 
in God, and looks to heaven for support and 
counsel in the day of trial, is likely to over- 
come a wicked foe, however powerful he may 
be. 



CONCLUSION. 

I H AVE now told you enough respecting 
Inquisitive Jack for you to know the means 
by which he improved his mind, and obtained 
a large stock of knowledge. Soon after the 
period of his life which I have described to 
you, he went to school, where he attended 
closely to the instructions he received, and 
continued his habits of inquiring and thinking 
until he became distinguished above all his 
companions. When he left school, he had 
to get his living by trade, and the greater 
part of his time was occupied. But as he 
persevered in observing and thinking, and in 
reading whenever he had suitable leisure, he 
at last became a wise and learned man. 

I have been anxious to set the example of 
Inquisitive Jack before you, because he pur- 
sued knowledge successfully with very little 
assistance from others. You have heard the 
old proverb " One man may lead a horse to 
water, but ten cannot make him drink." 
Now it is the same with boys in drinking 
knowledge, as with horses in drinking water. 



A boy may have the best books and the best 
teachers in the world, but unless he is willing 
to learn, and ready to exert the faculties he 
has, they will all do him no good. If we 
again compare Jack's case with that of the 
horse, his merit consisted not only in his 
drinking the knowledge that was offered to 
him, but in his finding out where to drink. 
He went to the water without being led, and 
drank with a good heart. 

It is no doubt a great advantage to have 
good teachers, and a great disadvantage to 
have none at all. It may not be in the power 
of every one to become learned, but every one 
may learn a great deal if he will make the 
most of the means within his reach. There 
are not many amongst my little readers who 
cannot command as many advantages as Jack 
possessed. There are not many who have 
not some kind friend or relation who would 
be ready, like Jack's aunt, to answer their 
questions, and encourage them in their pro- 
gress ; and there are none to whom the woods 
and the fields, the waters and the earth, the 
clouds and the starry sky are not open ; who 
have not hands and eyes, and the other senses, 


with powers of thinking, too, if they would 
but exercise them. These, with the reading 
of a few books (which almost every one in this 
country may either obtain for himself or bor- 
row) were the helps which Jack used, which 
tended to make him useful and respected 
amongst his friends, and furnished him with 
a never-ending source of pure enjoyment. 

I shall now give you a few cautions re- 
specting the reading of books ; the cautions 
which Jack, as he grew older, attentively 
observed. You should not try to read many 
books. It is an excellent thing to have read 
a few books well ; but it is a bad thing to 
have read a great many hastily. It may be 
no disgrace to a person not to have read a 
book, but it is a certain disgrace to have read 
a book and to have learned nothing from it. 
A great many people are proud to boast that 
they have read many books : but this is a sad 
delusion. The important question is not 
What books have you read ? but What do 
you know, and what use can you make of 
your knowledge ? 

The possession of one particular branch of 
knowledge need not hinder your learning 





another. I mean, for example, that if a man 
knows Botany, it is no reason why he should 
not study Chemistry. He cannot learn too 
much : knowledge is light carriage ; and the 
more a man has learned, if he has learned 
properly, the easier learning will be to him. 
But in respect to this there is a caution re- 
quired. You should learn one thing well, 
that is, get a good clear notion of it, before 
you learn another. Jack never overlooked 
this caution when he was old enough to see 
its importance. He learned one thing at a 
time, and therefore he learned a great many 
things one after another, and he learned them 
all well. While he was studying a subject, 
his whole attention was fixed on it till he had 
become master of it ; and thus it was that 
though he was acquainted with a variety of sub- 
jects, he was not a mere sinatterer in anything. 
By a smatterer, I do not mean merely one 
who knows a little of a subject : we must all 
of us know a little before we can know a great 
deal of any subject. A child who knows his 
alphabet only, knows but little, but he is not 
a smatterer if he knows it well. Jack, when 
he had attentively observed the ant-hill and 
the beetles, knew but little of entomology, 




but he was not a smatterer. I will tell you 
what a smatterer is. He is one who does 
not know any one part of a subject thoroughly 
but who seems to know something by having 
learned a few names and forms which he uses 
in conversation, without being acquainted 
with their proper meaning. 
The poet Pope has said, 

'* A little learning is a dangerous thing, 
Drink deep, or taste not the Pierian spring." 

Pope was famous for saying things well, 
but I do not think he has said this well. If 
we have any learning we must have possessed 
"a little learning" at some time or other. 
We cannot learn anything in a lump, but we 
must proceed by degrees. Besides, ce a little 
learning" must in itself be better than none 
at all. The fact is " a little learning" is only 
dangerous when its possessor mistakes it for 
a great deal, and thereby becomes conceited; 
or when by using fine words and learned 
names he wishes to pass for a great man, and 
thus becomes a smatterer. Perhaps it was 
one of these evils which the poet meant to 
denounce ; but he should have said what he 
meant in a way less likely to be misunderstood. 




I have now, in conclusion, only one short 
piece of advice to give you. If you wish to 
be learned and wise, apply your whole mind 
to one thing at a time ; never try to appear to 
know more than you really do; and how- 
ever learned and wise you may be, do not set 
yourself up, but be humble, and remember 
that there have been many more wise and 
learned than you are, and that what gifts you 
have were given you to use to the good of 
your fellow men and the glory of your Creator. 







