
 

A WORD TO THE CHILDREN 

Dear Children: Our little winged neighbors of 
the fields and hedges can help to give us a happy 
summer. If we watch the insects we will learn a 
great deal that is worth knowing. 

We can watch them everywhere, for even in the 
cities certain of them are always to be seen. In the 
parks and often in the crowded streets we may see 
butterflies and bees, bilt the best place to make their 
acquaintance is in the garden or out in the fields. 

The way to know them is to look, look, look. 

We can read about them, but that is not enough; 
we must also watch them with our own eyes. 

Think how pleasant it will be to take a summer 
walk and see little friends and acquaintances on every 
side. 

And think how busy we can keep, watching the 
affairs of our funny little insect neighbors. 

I hope you will all succeed in persuading some 
friejidly farmer to give you a piece of beebread out 




of his hives this summer, and that you will also get 
a good number of cocoons and chrysalids to look at 
through the winter. 

A happy summer to you. 

MARGARET W. MORLEY 
Boston, March 2, 1905 



CONTENTS 



PAGE 

Butterflies 3 

monarchs 3 

Golden-Rod Flowers . . 6 
The Tongue, Eyes, and 

Antenna 7 

Wings 9 

Viceroys 10- 

MlMICRY 11 

Scales 15 

Scales and Hairs ... 19 

Fritillaries 20 

Red Admiral 21 

The Mourning Cloak . 22 

Pollen 24 

Where the Butterflies 

come from 26 

The Larva 28 

The Monarch Caterpil- 
lar 29 

The Pupa 32 

The Adult 35 

The Swallowtails ... 38 
Sulphur Butterflies 
And Spring Azures . . 42 





PAGB 


Moths ..... 


. . 45 


The Luna Moth 


. . 45 


The Silk Moth . 


. . 49 


The Polyphemus 


. . 53 


The Cecropia 


. . 54 


Spinning .... 


. . 55 


The Prometheus 


. . 59 


The Io . . . . 


. . 61 


The Woolly Bear 


. . 62 


Millers and Other Moths 64 


The Army Worm 


AND 


Tent Caterpillar . . 65 


The Measuring Worm . 68 


The Gypsy Moth 


. . 71 


The Codlin Moth 


. . 72 


The Leaf Rollers 


. . 73 


The Sphinx Moth 


. . 75 


Other Brown Moths . . 78 


The Clothes Moth 


. . 79 


The Flannel Moth and 


Meal Moth. . 


. . 80 


The Skippers . . 


. . 81 


The Bagworm Moth . . 82 


Collecting Caterpillars 83 






FlIE8 



PAGE 

89 
91 
92 
92 
94 
96 
99 
100 
Gall 107 



FlIE8 

Cheese Skippers 

Flesh Flies . . 

Metamorphosis of 

The House Fly 

The Horsefly . 

The Crane Fly 

The Mosquito . 

The Gnat and the 

The Hessian Fly 

Parasites . . . 

The Kobber Fly 

Beelike Flies . 

The Botfly . . 

The Bluebottle 
Apple Flies . 

Salt-Water Flies 

Fruit Flies . . 

So-Called Ticks 

Early Comers . 
The Flea Folk . 
The Sharded Beetle 

The Ladybird . 

The May Beetle 

The Number of Insects 
ON Earth .... 

The Ladybird again 

The Tiger Beetle 

The Ground Beetle 



AND 



Folk 



109 
111 
113 
114 
115 

116 
117 
118 
118 
119 
120 
125 
125 
126 

128 
130 
132 
134 




The Water Beetle . . 136 
The Great Water 

Beetles 141 

The Burying Beetles . 142 
The Rove Beetle . . 145 
The Carpet Beetle . . 146 
The Click Beetle . . 147 
The Buprestids . . . 151 

The Firefly 152 

The Stag Beetle . . . 154 
The Lamellicorn 

Beetle 155 

The Long-Horned 

Beetles 163 

The Colorado Potato 

Beetle 167 

The Oil Beetle . . .168 

The Weevils .... 170 

The Social Bees .... 175 

Lady Bombus .... 175 

Her Wings 177 

Honey and Beebread . 179 
Pollen Baskets . . . 182 
Combs and Brushes . . 183 
The Honey Sac ... 184 

The Tongue 185 

The Nest 187 

Young Bees 189 

Workers 190 





Queens and Drones . . 192 

The Sting 194 

Lady Apis 197 

Wax 198 

Honeycomb 201 

Beehives 205 

The Larv-e and Fvtje . 207 
Workers and Drones . 208 
The Queen . . . . .210 

Swarming 212 

Care of the Home . . 214 

Lining Bees 216 

Artificial Comb . . . 218 

The Solitary Bees ... 220 

' The Burly Carpenter . 220 
Her Nest 222 

Mason Bees and Miner 

Bees 225 

The Masons 225 

The Miners 226 

Rose-Leaf Blankets . .228 

The Social Wasps ... 229 

Lady Vespa 229 

Paper Houses .... 231 



PAOB 

Young Wasps .... 233 
Enlarging the Nest . 235 
Queens, Workers, and 

Drones 237 

Lady Polistes .... 238 
The Solitary Wasps . . 241 
Little Friend Mud 

Dauber 241 

The Diggers and Miners 245 

The Ant Folk 247 

The Larv^ and Pup^e . 248 

The Queen 249 

The Ants' Cows . . . 250 
Soldiers and Slaves . 251 
Wars and Other Occu- 
pations 252 

Mound Builders . . . 256 

White Ants 257 

The Gallflies 260 

The Ichneumons .... 262 

The Horntail 265 

The Sawflies 266 

The End of the Summer 267 








BUTTERFLIES 

Gkeat ships are sailing on the broad blue 
sea ; their sails are white or gray and they 
can cross the ocean. 

See these little ships a-sailing in the 
air; their sails are all bright colors. 

They are the butterflies, and their 
wings are their sails. 

Sometimes they are blown out to sea and wrecked, 
for if they fall into the water they cannot get out 
again. 

MONARCHS 

Look ! the air is full of Monarchs. 

That is the name of this large butterfly that has dark 
yellow-red wings with black veins. 

Does it not look like a monarch among the insect 
folk? 

Can you count all the Monarchs you can see ? 

John says he can get as far as twenty, but they 
move about so rapidly that he cannot then tell which 
he has counted and which he has not. 




They seem to be sailing about for the pleasure of it, 
but many of them are at rest on the golden-rods. 

See ! the golden-rods seem to have blossomed out 
into butterflies. 

Monarchs, what are you doing on the golden-rods? 

They are walking daintily about on long, black legs 
_ that look like threads. 




May says they have only, four legs, which puzzles 
her, as she knows that insects have six legs. Look 
more carefully. Ah! now you see how it is. 

They have four long legs and two short ones, for the 
front legs are very small and the Monarchs hold them 
up close to their bodies, so we have to look sharp to 
see them. 

Why are the front legs of the Monarchs so small 
and useless? 







Doubtless the front legs were once strong and large 
enough to walk with, but for some reason this family 
of butterflies ceased to use these two legs, and they 
gradually grew smaller and weaker. 

You will remember that if an organ is not used, it 
dwindles away in course of time. 

There is a large family of butterflies with small 
front legs; they are called the Four- 
footed butterflies. 

May says the Monarchs are doing 
something besides walking about on 
the golden-rods* They uncui'l a longy 
black, threadlike tongue, and this 
they thrust into the little golden- 
rod flowers and suck out the 
nectar that is there. 

Look at the 
tongue ; it seems 
to have a joint 
in the middle, ¡ª 
at least it is ^^ 
bent in the (y^ 
middle. ^^' 







Now watch this one near us put the tip of that long 
tongue into first one tiny golden-rod flower and then 
another. 

The Monarchs seem to enjoy golden-rod nectar. 

Golden-Rod Flowers 

Do you know of the golden-rod flowers ? 
Each spray of golden-rod is made up of many separate 
flowers. The flowers are gathered into little clusters. 
Here is one branch from a large spray. 
.How many flowers are there on it ? 
Yes ; I thought you would all say four. 
Well, there are more than twenty. 
Each of those that you think is a single flower 
is really a cluster of tiny flowers. 
We will take off one little cluster. 
Now we will take it apart and look at one of the 
tiny flowers. 

We shall have to use a magnifying glass to 
see it Well. 

See what a perfect little flower it is under the glass. 
Yes, May, it looks somewhat like a little lily. 
Who would guess that the golden-rods were made up 
of so many, many tiny flowers ! 

There is a drop of nectar for the butterflies in each 
little flower tube. 






And now you see why the butterflies need such 
slender tongues. 

They could not reach the nectar hidden away in the 
bottoms of the tiny flower cups unless they had tongues 
as slender as threads. 

See them go from flower to flower ; they know just 
what to do with those tongues of theirs. 

Other insect folk are searching for the nectar, but 
there are more butterflies than anything else. 

The bumblebees are burying their flat faces deep in 
the golden-rod flowers, for they, too, have long, slender 
tongues. 

The Tongue, Eyes, and Antenna 

No, May, the tongues of the bees are not so long and 
slender as are those of the butterflies, and therefore the 
bees cannot reach the nectar so well as can o\ir dainty 
butterflies. 

The tongue of the 
butterfly is really a 
long tube. The mouth 
parts are modified to 
make it. It is not like the sharp tube of the bugs. 
The butterfly cannot pierce with its tongue. 

Do you know what becomes of the long tongue when 
the butterfly is not using it ? 








Yes, May, it is coiled up like a watch spring. 
What a pretty way to take care of it ! 
See the little coiled tongue under the butterfly's head. 
And see its black eyes. How round they are ! 

Yes, you are right, Charlie ; they 
^;Ji0^ are compound eyes, but I do not 

know how many 
facets they have. 
Facets, you remem- 
ber, are the small 
eyes into which 
these large ones are 
divided. 
Nearly all adult insects have com- 
pound eyes, you know. 

Eutterflies see well. We have to be 
careful when we go near one or it will 

/fly away before we have a chance 
to get a good look at it. 
Yes^ Mayj our butterfly has a little 
round head and two pretty, delicate 
' 1/ ./autennaN with a knob at the end of 
each. 
Watch it examine the little flowers 
of the golden-rod with its anten- 
'^ UEJD, or feelers as we also call them. 





before it uncurls its tongue. It touches first one flower, 
then another. 

Yes, little Nell, it is smelUng to see where the nectar 
is. I see you remember that insects smell with their 
feelers. 

As soon as our butterfly finds a flower that is full of 
nectar, out comes that long, black tongue, and the tip 
of it soon finds its way into the little flower cup. 

Wings 

Be careful, Ned, my boy ! You will break the butter- 
fly's wings if you handle it so carelessly. 

What could it do with broken wings ? 

It could not go a-sailing in the air, ¡ª that is, if its 
wings were too badly injured. 

There goes one with wings all rags and tatters ! 

What do you suppose has happened to it ? 

Sometimes birds bite the wings of the butterflies. 

They think they can catch them by their wings ; but 
it is not easy for a bird to catch one of the large 
butterflies in this way. 

Often all that the bird gets for his trouble is a mouth- 
ful of dry butterfly wing, and the butterfly is not much 
the worse for the encounter, ¡ª that is, unless the bird 
takes too big a bite, or bites one wing a great deal 





Motiardy 



more than the other, so that the butterfly cannot 
balance itself. 

A butterfly can lose a good deal of sail and still keep 
afloat, so long as both sails are clipped alike. But if 
one is cut and the other not, that is a sad 
matter ; butterfly tries to float off in the 
air and tumbles to the ground instead. 

Birds do not often bite 

the wings of the Monarchs; 

they have a very disagree- 

al>le taste and the birds know it 

and do not often try to eat one. 






Viceroys 

Now what do you think ? 

Here is a butterfly that is not 

' a Monarch. It is called the Viceroy. 

The birds like the taste of this 

butterfly, but it looks so much 

like a Monarch that they do not often 

catch it. They think it is an ill-tasting 

Monarch and let it severely alone. 

It is smaller than the Monarch, and has a 
black band running across the middle of its hind wings. 
See if you can find a Viceroy. 
It belongs to the Four-footed butterflies. 






Mimicry 



A good many insects mimic other insects. 

They do it for protection. 

You will always find that the insects mimicked are 
those able to care for themselves. 

The helpless ones mimic the others. 

Bad-smelling or bad-tasting insects are very apt to be 
mimicked by those that are not disagreeable. 

Protective mimicry is adopted by a great many insects. 

The fierce stinging insects are apt to be mimicked by 
those that have no sting. Some flies and beetles look 
so much like bumblebees or wasps that you would not 
dare touch them. 

Yes, May, some insects mimic leaves and twigs in 
order to escape notice. 

One butterfly, which is not found in our country, 
mimics the leaves of certain shrubs so exactly that you 
would have to look sharp indeed to detect it. Those I 
have seen in museums are brownish in color and look 
exactly like a dead leaf on a twig. 

On the next page is a picture of a twig with a butter- 
fly on it, and at first glance you do not know which is the 
butterfly. It has its wings folded together over its back. 

Yes, John, we see only the under side of its wings. 
The upper side is not dull and brown ; it is bright in 



^ -^y^ on 




color, ¡ª blue, orange, and black, I 
think. But when this butterfly comes 
to rest it folds up its wings dull side 
out, and you see that there are 
lines like the veining of leaves 
them. You can imagine that 



butterfly sitting on a twig with its leaf- 
like wings folded over its body and say- 
ing, "Now, bird, find me if you can." 
Other insects, as you know, are the 
color of the earth or of the leaves, so that you 
can scarcely see them unless they move. 
When insects are colored like their surroundings we 
say that their coloring is protective. 

Can you think of any other insects that have pro- 
tective coloring? 

Yes, John, the little brown moths tha;t hide close to 
the roots of the grass. 

Yes, the Walking Sticks have protective coloring. 
Nell says tree toads have protective coloring, for they 
can change their color to suit their surroundings. 
That makes the rest of the children laugh. 
Do you know why they laugh, little Nell ? 
Yes, she says she knows. Tree toads are not insects, 
but the protective coloring of insects made her think of 
tree toads. 



That is right, Nell; tree toads have protective col- 
oring like the insects. A great many animals have 
protective coloring. 

John asks whether insects change their color to suit 
their surroimdings, as some other animals do. 

Now, John, I cannot answer you. I do not know 
whether they do or not. 

As a rule they do not, but I should not like to say it 
never happens. 

This I do know, that grasshoppers are differently 
colored in different places. 

For instance, those near the seashore are often 
nearly white, just the color of the sand they hop on, 
and in places where the soil or rock is black, or very 
dark brown, the grasshoppers are of the same color. 

Young insects are often different in color from 
the adults, and this is usually the case where the 
surroimdings are different. 

'No, MoUie, not all insects have protective coloring. 

Some are very bright and very different in color 
from their surroundings. 

Such are our Monarchs. 

Perhaps they wish to be seen. 

I think the very bright butterflies that come out in 
the sunshine are usually offensive to the birds. This 
being the case, it is an advantage to the butterflies to 







have the birds recognize them quickly, before taking a 
taste, you see. 

Butterflies have another way of escaping birds. 
Some kinds fly very swiftly indeed, suddenly and 
frequently changing their course. They go zigzagging 
along at such a rapid rate that no bird can follow. 

The Monarchs do not need to fly so fast; their 

disagreeable flavor protects them. Often their great 

wings move slowly as they sail in the air, though when 

they wish they can dart about at a very rapid rate. 

Yes, little Nell, the butterfly's wings, as well as its 

,;^ legs, are attached to its thorax, 

and its abdomen is divided into 

segments, like the abdomens of 

all the insects. 

It has four large wings, two on 
each side, which it holds up over its 
back when it is at rest. 

It cannot fold them away. 
Nell has caught one of the 
Monarchs, which she is hold- 
ing carefully by the wings. 




Scales 

See how dusty her little fingers are. 

The dust comes from the wings of the butterfly. 

See, it rubs oflE and then the wing is not so pretty. 

No, I do not think it hurts the butterfly to hold it 
carefully by the wings. It rubs the pretty color oflE, 
though. 

Yes, May, some of the butterflies have wings that look 
old and worn, and no doubt they are old and worn. 

It does not take long for them to look so if the 
butterfly gets caught under a bush, or in any place 
where it beats its wings against something in trying 
to escape and thus scrapes ofE the bright dust. 

Mollie thinks the butterfly's wing is powdered with 
this bright dust on purpose to look beautiful, and that 
undoubtedly is true. 

Would you like to see some butterfly-wing dust 
under the microscope? 

You shall see it when we go home. 

"What is that, Mollie, ¡ª Let us go home now and see it ? 

Well, so we will. It is not far, and we can come 
back to the butterflies again. 

This wing dust that you are to see is not from a 
Monarch ; it is from other butterflies, and from a moth 
or two. 






Now, Mollie, all is ready, and you may be the first 
to look. 

"Oh! oh!" 

I thought you would be surprised. 

Mollie says the butterfly-wing dust 
is like fairy-fish scales from fairy fish 
' that live in rainbows. 
Indeed, these tiny scales are wonder- 
fully beautiful, ¡ª they are so delicate, 
and so lovely in coloring. 
Yes, John^ small as they are, they are 
linished off with exquisite perfection. 
'^ No matter how much we 
^ were to magnify them, they 
' would never seem coarse or rough. 
ou wonder why anything so small 
and unimportant as the dust on the 
butterfly's wing should have 
been so carefully made? 

Well, my boy, that is 

Nature's way. Everjrthing 

is done perfectly, and the small 

things are as carefully finished as 

the large ones. 

May says she thinks we could learn a 
lesson from that. 







scales, 
flies, you 



Indeed, May, I am sure we could. 
Ned has not yet seen these beautiful scales through 

the microscope. 

Yes, Ned, they do look like 
dainty stick-tight seeds 
made of thin glass. 

These little objects are 
really tmy scales; not fish 
scales, of course, but insect 
These are from, several species of butter- 
know, and so they are of different shapes. 
Yes, May, each species has scales different from 
the scales of other species. Yes, indeed, I think it is 
wonderful. 

Now look through the microscope again. 
Here is a piece of wing with a few scales attached. 
See how they overlap. 
They protect the wing and 
strengthen it as well as beautify it. 
Look, too, at the wing where the 
scales have been rubbed off. It is 
no longer bright in color. It looks 
like a piece of oiled paper. 

Yes, May, the little dots on it are 
where the scales that have been brushed off were 
fastened. 







What a beautiful and wonderful thing is the butter- 
fly's wing ! 

We name the butterfly order from these scales on 
the wings, just as we named the caddice-fly order from 
the hairs on the wings. 

Yes, May, the insects in an order are no doubt closely 
related to each other, more closely than insects of 
different orders. 

You see they are alike in other 

j^ ways than in their wings, al- 

y though we have chosen to name the 

orders from some peculiarity of the wings. 

K^ John is anxious to know the name 

^^,^ of the butterfly order. 

It is the Lep-i-dop-te-ra. 
The word comej^ from the Greek ^<^on, a wing, and 
lepis^ a scale. Scale Wing, ¡ª that is the name of the 
order of our butterfly. 

May wants to know why we do not say " lepis-pteron," 
instead of " lepidoptera." 

For one reason, it is easier to say " lepidoptera." 
Other reasons you will understand when you have 
grown a little older and have studied a little more about 
how words are formed. 

I hope you will like to study how words are made 
some day, for words are very interesting. 





Scales and Hairs 

Now I think you would like to know 
something more' about scales 
and hairs. 

Both of them grow out 
from the skin, as you know. 

If you look at the wing of 
the moth close up to the body, you 
will see hairs mingled with the scales, 
and you will find scales almost as thin 
as hairs; for scales are only flattened hairs, 
modified hairs, you know. 

What, Ned, ¡ª fish scales are not flattened hairs? 
Oh, but they are. 

Scales and hairs and feathers are all really the same. 

Scales and feathers are modified hairs ; they all grow 
out from the skin in the same way. 

¡ö Yes, May, the hairs are modified to suit the needs of 
those that wear them. 

The hairs of the fox grow very thick to make him a 
warm fur coat, that he may not suffer in the freezing 
winter. 

The hairs on the bird are large and flattened out into 
feathers to make a smooth covering, as well as a warm 
one, when the bird flies through the air. Feathers are 


lighter than fur and they lie down flat and keep in 
place better when the wind blows. Feathers help make 
useful wings for the birds. 

The birds could not fly unless their hairs were modi- 
fied into feathers. 

Imagine a bird clad in fur like a fox! 

The fish does not need fur or feathers. It needs 
hairs that are short, flat, and homy, so that it can slip 
easily through the water. Therefore its hairs are modi- 
fied into smooth, flat scales. Some insects have spines 
that are modified hairs, and the Lepidoptera have, as 
you know, modified hairs that are scales to protect their 
wings and make them beautiful. 

So now you know how useful hairs are to all the 
animals. 

Fritillaries 

Let us take a walk in the woods. 

How dark and mysterious it is under the big trees ! 

We see no butterflies here, for they like the sunshine. 

Now we come out into a sunny glade. And here are 
butterflies in bright array. 

Pretty ones, we are very glad to meet you on our 
walk. 

See those two butterflies over there. They are called 
Fritillaries, 



How they go flitting up and down in the sunshine ! 

Now they are gone. No, there they come back again. 

The same butterfly will flit up and down a sunny 
opening in the woods all day long. 

They love the sunshine. 

They love the air beating in per- 
fumed waves against their wings. 

And surely they love the swift^ 
strong movement of their flight. 

It is beautiful, butterflies, to 
flit thus swiftly up and down the 
sunny spaces in the woods. 

These yellowish-brown butter- 
flies, with their wings bordered 
and marked with black, their 
hinder ones often embroidered 
with silver spots, are very often seen. 

They are the Fritillaries, and we have more than fifty 
species of them, and ¡ª yes, they too have tiny, helpless 
fore feet. They belong to the Four-footed butterflies. 




Red Admiral 

So does our charming Red Admiral. 
Do you know the Red Admiral ? 
Come, then, and make its acquaintance. 







I see one on that thistle head. 

Butterflies love the thistles. 
Where there are thistles you will be sure to 
¡ö' see butterflies. 

The thistle head, like the 
golden-rod, as you 
know, is made up of 
a great many small, 
tubular flowers. 
In each little flower tube is 
a drop of nectar. 

The Red Admiral is a 
beauty. How rich the colors 
of its purple-black wings, with 
orange-colored bands and 
white spots! 

Indeed, May, the Four-footed 
butterflies are a large family, 
and many of them are very beautiful. 




The Mourning Cloak 

One of the commonest of this family is the Mourning 
Cloak. 

You all know it. 

It flies about all summer long, and it is everywhere. 



The wings are dark brown, with a broad yellow 
border along the margins. The yellow border is 
embroidered with brown, and there is a row of blue 
spots above it, on the upper side of the wings. 

See! here comes a Mourning Cloak, flitting down the 
sutmy glade as though on purpose to let us see it. 

It is on its way to the thistle. It, too, is fond of 
thistle nectar. 

The tube of the little thistle flower is longer than 
that of the golden-rod; consequently not so many in- 
sects can eiijoy thistle nectar. Their tongues are not 
long enough to reach it. 

But the tongues of the butterflies can easily reach it. 

If you watch the butterflies, you will find that they 
visit a great many flowers which store their nectar 
at the bottom of long, slender tubes. 

The table of the butterflies is spread 
all summer long with bright and fragrant 
blossoms, ¡ªdelicate dishes that hold 
delicious nectar for them. 

And the butterflies do what in 
return for this royal feast that is 
always ready ? May says they carry pel 
len from one flower to another. Pollen, 
you will remember, is necessary to tho 
forming of the seeds. 





Pollen 





What, Ned, ¡ª you have forgotten what pollen is ? 
Do you not remember the dust in the little flower 
boxes which we call anthers? 

You shall see the jpicture of a lily; 
for the anthers show plainly there. 

There are six anthers, crescent 
shaped, and balanced on long, slen- 
der stems. The crescent-shaped an- 
ther is full of pollen dust, ¡ª tiny grains that fall 
out when the flower is ripe. 

At the center of the lily you can see the seed 
pod. There is a long, tubular stem growing from 
the top of it, and this stem ends in a knob. 

If the pollen touches the knob it remains there. 
Yes, the knob when ripe is sticky and holds the 
pollen grain. Soon the substance of the pollen grain 
finds its way down the long, slender tube to the seeds in 
the pod. This pollen substance unites with the seeds 
and then the seeds develop into plants. 
The seeds cannot grow without pollen. 
If it were not for the insects, most of the pollen 
would fall out of the anthers and be wasted. 

Bees and other nectar-eating insects visit the flowers 
and thus scatter the pollen. 





The butterfly also comes for nectar. It touches the 
ripe anther with its fuzzy back, or with its legs or its 
tongue. The pollen clings to the butterfly and then 
the butterfly, all dusty with pollen, goes to another 
flower and, brushing against the sticky knob^ 
leaves some pollen grains on it. 

Now you know what cargo is 
borne by these brave little ships 
of the air. 

They do not cgLrry bales of 
merchandise, like the great 
ships of the sea, but the 
freight they bear is as precious as 
the cargoes of the ships. 

Were it not for the insect folk who 
bear pollen from plant to plant, there 
would be no seeds formed on some species 
of plants, and if there were no seeds 
there would soon be no plants. 

Were it not for the insect folk, there would be fewer 
flowers to cheer us ; and without our friends the insects 
we should have less food to eat, for they carry the 
pollen that helps to form the seeds for our fruits and 
vegetables. 

When the flower receives the pollen we say that it is 
fertilized. Many kinds of insects fertilize the flowers. 





The butterflies help to fertilize the golden-rods. When 
they put long tongues into tiny nectar cups, they rub 
off pollen grains to carry to the next golden-rod ; for 
each little golden-rod flower has its tiny pollen cases, 
and each has its seed pod. 

Is it not a pleasant thought that we owe our lovely 
flowers to our beautiful insect friends ? and that we owe 
our insect friends to our flowers ? For if it were not for 
the flowers, our fairy-winged insects that make the 
world so cheery would not be with us, for the flowers 
supply the nourishment on which they live. 

Where the Butterflies come From 

Where do the butterflies come from ? little Nell wants 
to know. 

Where do you think they come from, little Nell ? 

Yes, they are hatched out of eggs. Butterflies often 
lay their eggs on the leaves or twigs of plants, and 
one day last summer I saw a Monarch butterfly hover- 
ing over some milkweeds. It darted down every little 
while and rested on a leaf for just a second, then off 
again, only to return to another leaf. Every time it 
thus rested on the milkweed leaf it left there a tiny 
green egg. Of course I picked some of those milkweeds 
and took them home and put them in water. What do 
you suppose happened in a few days ? 






Yes, the eggs hatched. 

Do you think they hatched into butterflies ? 

No, you all know better than that. Out of butterfly 
eggs are hatched little larvaB, and the larvaB of butter- 
flies are caterpillars. 

Yes, John, the caterpillar is a larva. 

Caterpillars never lay eggs, for only adult insects do 
that. 

No, indeed. May, caterpillars are not " worins " ! 

Some people call everything that creeps a worm, just 



as they call all 
I will tell you 
insects at alL 
another division 
Worms never 
wings, and they 
never have the 
body divided into 
head, thorax, and 
abdomen. 




winged insects bugs, 
something : worms are not 
They belong to 
of animals, 
have legs or 






Some larvaB look like worms, but they transform 
finally into insects, with head, thorax, abdomen, and 
six legs. 

Worms never do that. 

Yes, Ned, the angleworm, or earthworm, is a true 
worm. There is not much difference between its head 
end and its tail end. It never has legs or wings, no 
matter how long it lives. 

The Larva 

When the little caterpillars (the larvae, you know) 
first hatched out of the Monarch's eggs, they were so 
tiny that one could hardly tell their color and shape ; 
but you know what they at once began to do. Yes, eat, 
eat, eat, eat ; and grow, grow, grow. 

It was great fun to watch them from day to day, 
they grew so fast and changed so rapidly. In two or 
three days the little dots of things looked quite like 
caterpillars with their yellow bodies ringed with black. 

Oh, yes, they shed their skins a number of times 
before they were full grown ; and you could tell when 
they were about to do it, for they would stop eating for 
several hours and look quite pale and faded. 

The outer skin that loosened and fell off was so 
very thin and delicate that you had to look carefully 
to find it. 



How bright their colors were after they had shed 
their skins, and how fast they grew ! 

Do you know, I see some milkweeds over there in the 
fence comer, and I should n't wonder if you could find 
some Monarch caterpillars there. Go and see. 

The Monarch Caterpillar 

Ah, yes ! now you know just how they 
look. You wonder what those two long, 
black horns near the head end are for ? 

And see ! there are two shorter ones 
near the tail end. 

No, they are not antennae. 

The butterfly has anten- 
nae, but the caterpillar has not. 
These horns do not grow from 
the head, you see, but from one 
of the rings back of the head. 

May has noticed that they cotne 
out of a black ring and, in sliort, 
look like an elongation of the black 
skin, and I am sure that is just 
what they are, ¡ª modified skin. 

As to their use, the caterpillar seems 
to use them like feelers, and ]jrobably they 
are sensitive, though I do not know whether 






they contain nerves of scent or not. But you see the 
caterpillar waves them about when it moves, as though 
it were using them to help find its way. 

No, indeed, caterpillars do not usually have these 
horns, ¡ª only the Monarch caterpillars and a few others. 

See its little, shining black head. Can you find its 
tiny, simple eyes ? 

Its body is not divided into thorax and abdomen. 
The segments are alike, except that there are legs 
attached to some of them. 

The -first three segments back of the head each bear 
a pair of short, sharp-pointed, jointed legs, with little 
feet at the ends. 

What is that. May, ¡ª it has several short, fat legs in 
the middle of its body ? Yes, we can see them quite 
plainly. 

True, Mollie, there are little clasping feet at the end 
of these short elephant legs. 

This caterpillar has four pairs of them in the middle 
of the body, and if you look at the tip end of the body 
you will find another pair. 

These extra legs are called "pro-legs." They are not 
jointed, and I can tell you something about them that 
you will like to know. 

They are merely modified skin. The skin is modified 
to do duty as legs. 





Yes, Mollie^ the skin is very changeable ; it readily 
assumes new forms. 

The caterpillar is supplied with prolegs because it has 
such a heavy, clumsy body to pull around. 

No, May, not all caterpillars have five pairs of pro- 
legs, though nearly all do. 

We shall meet a caterpillar that has less than ten 
prolegs, ¡ª that is, less than five pairs, you know, ¡ª and 
we shall meet one that has mure 
than ten. 

Generally, however, the true 
caterpillars have ten prolegs. 

Now see its little jaws move as 
it chews the edge of the leaf. 

Yes, John, the jaws of insects move sidti- 
ways, instead of up and down like ours- 

No, they have no teeth, but the jaws themBelves are 
quite hard and homy, and are sharp on the edges. In 
some insects they are notched like little saws on the edges. 

Yes, Mollie, this is just like the caterpillars 1 raised 
from the eggs, and I will tell you what happened to them. 

One day one of them stopped eating. It moved rest- 
lessly about and I saw threads of silk on the milkweed 
leaves. 

It had eaten enough. It began to feel the strange 
changes that were taking place in its little body, and it 



wished to creep away to undergo the wonderful trans- 
formation in store for it. It left the milkweed and 
began to wander about the room. So I put it in a large 
\ ^ pqpny box and shut the cover down. 

This safe hiding place was what it wanted, 
and it soon spun a little button of silk out of 
ita mouth on the under side of the box cover, 
and this button it grasped firmly with the two 
prolegs at the tail end of the body. 
Then it let go with all its other legs imtil it 
was hanging by its hind feet. It did not hang 
head down, but curled up a little, as you see 
in the picture. It hung there for a whole day, 
and then ¡ª the caterpillar skin split open and dropped 
off, and there remained, not a caterpillar, but a very 
beautiful little pupa. 

The Pupa 

This pupa looked as though made of delicate pea- 
green glass, and there were sparkling gold dots on it, 
and a line of shining gold halfway around the upper 
part of its body. 

You can hardly imagine anything more beautiful or 
anything more different from a yellow-and-black-ringed 
caterpillar. 





You see it had molted for the last time, and under its 
old skin was the hard pupa skin, like a shell. 

Yes, Mollie, the hard pupa shell is needed to protect 
it in its resting stage. 

In its larval or eating stage it can move about and 
curl up and wriggle, if disturbed. In its pupal or resting 
^tage it cannot help itself, and so it has this hard, shell- 
like skin, which, like all insect skins, is made of chitin. 

Some day you will find a strange and beautiful little 
object attached to a fence rail or a bush. It will be 
pale green with golden spots on it. It will be 
hard and smooth, and of a* strange shape. 

It will not look at all like a caterpillar 
or a butterfly, but you will know that it 
is the pupa of a Monarch butterfly. 

Some caterpillars are covered with 
hairs and some have spines on their 
bodies. But the pupa shell has no hairs, 
although it is sometimes supplied with 
sharp points. Sometimes it is very beautiful 
like a jewel, or, we might say, like a jewel case in 
which is inclosed the beautiful butterfly. 

The pupa of the butterfly has a name of its own. 
It is called a "chrysalis," or "chrysalid." Chrysalis 
comes from a Greek word meaning gold. So in its 
golden case the jewel lies. But not all chrysalids are 







golden, or pale 
green spotted 
¡öwith gold* Some are 
diill brown. 




know if the pupa ormnr^t move 
at all. Yes, if you touch it, it will sometimes 
move its abdomen. You can see the abdominal segments 
quite plainly as it hangs head down. You can also see 
the eyes if you look carefully, and the antennae and 
legs too, all soldered down into an immovable jacket. 

But soon it will be free. The chrysalid shell will 
split down the back, and out will come the butterfly 
that has been folded up inside. 

Under the chrysalid skin a wonderful trans- 
formation takes place: the form of the but- 
terfly gradually becomes perfected ; antennae, 
wing pads, legs, ¡ª all are there. 



In the beautiful green pupa case of the Monarch you 
can see in part what is taking place. 

In a few days the green shell will look darker and 
the veins on the tiny wings inside can be seen. Soon 
after this you can distinguish the bright colors of the 
wings. Such tiny wings ! not so long as the little pupa 
case. 

When the wings begin to shine through you must 
look often, for the coming out of the butterfly is close 
at hand. When the moment arrives the pupa shell will 
split open and out will drop a fat butterfly with tiny 
little wings. 

The Adult 

This fat butterfly will cling to the now empty pupa 
case with its slender, black legs. Then, before your 
very eyes, the soft little wing pads will lengthen and 
broaden and stiffen, the body will become slender, and 
in a few minutes there will be hanging from the empty 
pupa shell a perfect butterfly, ¡ª the adult as we call 
it, ¡ª opening and shutting its bright new wings. 

Now look at the pupa shell ! You will be astonished 
to see that it is no longer green with gold markings, 
but a little torn bag of thin, transparent chitin. 

When the butterfly has rested until those wonderful 
wings are fully expanded, away it flies, without learning 





how, just as though it had been flying all its life. 
Away it flies out into the lovely world it has 
never seen before. 

Ned says it did see the world ¡ª when it 
was a caterpillar. 
Ah, Ned! the caterpillar is not made for 
seeing. You have forgotten that its eyes are 
small and simple. 

Its one concern is to eat, and it doubtless finds its 
food not so much by seeing as by smelling. It can 
probably distinguish light from darkness, and perhaps 
can also see very near objects, but that may be all its 
eyes are capable of. 

It must await the wonderful transformation before it 
can really see the world. 

And now you will be interested to know that the wings 
of the butterfly are made of modified Q skin. 

The full-sized wings could not of ^^II course find 
room in the little pupa shell, and (^^L/^m A 

so they remain small and soft 
until they are free, when the air and 
moisture, rushing into them, stretch a 
them out into their perfect form. 'V [ 

Yes, Charlie, the butterfly imder- 
goes a complete metamorphosis. The 
larva is very unlike the adult, and it goet? into the' 






motionless pupa state, from which it emerges a trans- 
formed creature, as unUke the clumsy, creeping cater- 
pillar as you can imagine. 

You had better find some more of these caterpillars 
and take them home. Put a fresh milkweed stalk in 
a glass of water and the caterpillars will not leave it 
until they are ready to transform. As soon as one tries 
to leave the milkweed, put it in a box and it will soon 
become a chrysalid. It will take about a week for the 
chrysaUd to transform into a butterfly. 

Sometimes it happens that the caterpillar is not 
changed into a chrysalid. There is a fly on the watch. 
Although the Monarch caterpillar has such a disagree- 
able odor and taste that birds let it alone, yet this fly 
does not find it unpleasant. On the contrary it looks 
eagerly about for these caterpillars, and when it finds 
one it lays an egg or two in its body. 

That, as you may imagine, is the end of the poor 
caterpillar, although you would not suspect there was 
anything the matter. It eats and grows and finally 
hangs itself up to become a chrysalid. By this time 
the fly's larvaB, which have been living inside the cater- 
pillar, are ready to undergo their transformation. So 
out they come, little whitish maggots, that fall to the 
ground, into which they burrow, later to emerge as 
perfect flies. 





The poor caterpillar has been so nearly eaten up by 
these merciless, uninvited guests that it can only die. 

This is very often the fate of the Monarch cater- 
pillars that live out of doors. But if you are fortunate 
enough to get the eggs you will have nothing of the 
sort to fear. 

The Swallowtails 

Now let us go out again and 
take a run across the 
meadow. 

The golden-rod still 
lights the hedges, 
but where are the 
Monarchs ? 
What has become of the 
great Bwarm we saw a few 
days ago? 
Who can understand the ways of the Mon- 
archs ? Suddenly they appear in thousands ; the air is 
full of them. 

Then they disappear ; they have gone somewhere else 
and you only see one here and there. 
But to-day we have the Swallowtails. 
See ! on the edge of that pool are five or six of them 
sipping the water. 








Yes, Ned, they are called Swallowtails 
from the long, tail-like extensions on the 
hinder wings. 

Watch that one rise and sail away. 
It is a handsome little craft ; its sails are 
of yellow, banded with black. 

These yellow and black Swallowtails are 
called Turnus butterflies. 

Perhaps if we look on those weeds in 
the fence corner we may find the cater- 
pillar of the Turnus. 

Ah! here is one. Strange Jittle creature! 
Nell says it has big eyes like a fish. 
John declares that those spots 
are not its eyes. They are only 
marks on its body. 

See if you can find its tiny 
head ¡ª its little dots 
of eyes are not easy to 
find. 

Mabel thinks it is 
lying on a spider's web. 

No, Mabel, it is lying ^ 
on a bed of its own weav- 
ing. It made that little 
mattress of silk. 








Yes, the silk was first in a liquid form in the head of 
the caterpillar. It hardened into silk when the cater- 
pillar spun it out. 

Mabel says she knows of another Swallowtail, ¡ª a 
black one with yellow and blue markings on the wings. 
^:?^ That is the Black Swallowtail, 

^MC4: and it is a beauty. 
^"^^^ Besides the orange and yellow 

¡ª -^i" spots on its wings there are patches 
covered with shining blue or green scales. 
Oh, yes, indeed! the yellow spots are 
made of yellow scales. Rub off the scales 
and you have only a thin, papery, color- 
leyss wing left. 

The larva of the Black Swallowtail is 
the well-known green caterpillar, with 
black rings and yellow spots on it, that 
sometimes covers the leaves of the pars- 
nip or caraway plants. 
Mollie says she saw some in the fence corner yester- 
day. Let us go and get them. 

Are n't they gay fellows ! Why, why ! what is the 
matter ? 

Nell's caterpillar has horns! She poked it with a 
stick and it shot out two soft, yellow horns from behind 
its head. What a caterpillar ! 





The yellow horns are pretty on its green body, but, oh 
dear ! what an odor they give off ! It is fairly sickening. 

Ned says that it makes that vile odor for the same 
reason that the grasshopper makes molasses, ¡ª it wishes 
to be let alone. 

I think that is so. 

If you poke these larvae they will punish you. 

They wish to be let alone so that they can eat, eat, 
eat. 

Yes, May, I think they are so brightly colored because 
they want to be seen and recognized at once. 

No bird would eat such vile-smelling things, and they 
do not want a bird to mistake them for an edible cater- 
pillar and swallow them down before it discovers its 
mistake. So they shine out, bright flags of warning. 
Birds soon learn .^.^^^ to recognize vile-smelling 

caterpillars and ^^UJJ^*'^^--^ ^ l^t them alone. 

Here, under this ^t^^ll^sl^^'^^i^ twig, is the 
chrysalis of one of ^?^^^ our Swallow- 

tails. Strange little brown ^'^ object! 

Not only is it suspended by the two prolegs at the 
tail end, but it is also supported by a silken line 
thrown about its body. 

Evidently it does not wish to be blown away. 

We will take the chrysalid home and perhaps we 
shall see the butterfly come out of it. 






Watch the Swallowtail butterfly on that flower. 

It has six long, black legs. 

The Swallowtails do not belong to the Four-footed 
butterflies. 

We do not distinguish the butterflies by their legs so 
much as by their wings. 

Each species has its wings veined differently. 

It is very difficult to study the veining on the wings 
of the butterflies, ¡ª too difficult for us now, but some 
time you may want to do it. 



Sulphur Butterflies and Spring Azures 

Little Nell says she knows where there are some little 
yellow butterflies. She sees them every day clustered 
around a wet spot by the roadside. 

Oh, yes, here they are ! They are the Sulphur butter- 
flies. We see them everywhere in the 
summer time, for they love to hover 
about wet places. Sometimes dozens 
of them will stand around a mud 
puddle. The little larvae feed on 
clover. 
?r There goes a white one. That 
J¡ì^^^^^^i-H^^<;' is a Cabbage butterfly, ¡ª a pretty 
^"^ * little nuisance. 






Mollie wants to 
know why it is a 
nuisance. 

John says he can guess* 
He thinks the larvae feed on cab- 
bage leaves. 

They do, and that is why it 
is called the Cabbage butterfly. The 
next time you go into the garden, examine the 
cabbages to see if there are wormholes in them. If 
so, you wUl doubtless be able to find a little cater- 
pillar, just the color of the cabbage leaf, with yellow 
bands running the length of its body, ¡ª that is the 
larva of the Cabbage butterfly. 

It is not always easy to find these larvae, for they 
burrow into the very heart of the cabbage, where it is 
tenderest and juiciest, and also where they do the most 
harm. 

The Sulphur and Cabbage butterflies do not belong 
to the Four-footed butterflies, but, like the Swallowtails, 
their chrysalids are lashed fast by a silken cord. 

Another lovely little roadside frequenter is the Spring 
Azure. It is much smaller than the Cabbage butterfly, 
and gets its name from its color. 

Azure, you know, means blue, ¡ª sky color, ¡ª and 
these daintiest of butterflies are of this color. 




They are like flower petals fluttering in the sunshine. 

They, too, like wet places, and, as in the case of the 
Cabbage butterfly, you will sometimes find great num- 
bers of them grouped about a wet place in the road. 

They flutter up, a shining company, when any one 
approaches them. 

The under side of their lovely wings is pearly gray 
or white, with tiny black spots. 

Yes, indeed, Charlie, there are a very great many 
species of butterflies. 

Some are large and some are small. Some are 
bright in color and some are dull. But they are all 
beautiful. 

Yes, May, they all began life as caterpillars. Every 
butterfly was first a lowly, nearly blind, creeping 
caterpillar. 




MOTHS 



The Luna Moth 

Here is John with a prize. 

He found it by the roadside, and he says it is, a 
pea-green Swallowtail butterfly. 

What a beauty ! 

Little Nell says that it has windows in its wings. 

The round wing spots are transparent like glass, and 
they are bordered with beautiful bright-colored scales. 




But, John, this is not a butterfly ; it is a moth. 
MoUie says she always thought moths were little 
gray things that ate our clothes. 

Ah, but there are a great many kinds of moths, 
Mollie. Some are tiny gray things and some are very 
large and handsome, like this one. 
How do I know that it is a moth? 
There are several ways to tell the moths from the 
butterflies. One way is by the antennae. You remem* 
ber that the antenna of the butterfly is thread- 
like, with a knob at the end. 

Now look at the antennae of our beauti- 
ful green moth. You see they are flat and 
broad and are fringed along the sides like 
little feathers. 

No, not all moths have feathered antennae, 
but no moths have antennae with knobs at the tips. 
Another way to tell the moths from the 
butterflies is by the manner in which they 
h(4d their wings. 
When the butterfly is at rest it holds 
its wings close together and straight 
up over its back. 

Yes, Nellie, that is why it is so easy 

to pick up a butterfly by the wings. 

The moth does not hold its wings up in this way. 










Some moths, like the one John has here, 
allow the wmgs to lie out flat. 

Others fold them down on the sides of the 
body, making a sort of tent roof over the 
back, as shown in this picture. 

Another difference is that butterflies fly in the day- 
time, while most of the moths appear at night or in the 
dusk. They flutter about the iiight-bloomiiig 
flowers, from which they extract nectar. 

This exquisite creature that John has 
brought us is the Luna moth. 

Luna is the Latin word for moon, and [^ 
it is derived from a word mean- 
ing to shine. 

This, then, is the shining 
moth, the moth of the moon, 
¡ª or we might call it the moonlight moth. 

May says she thinks it is mysterious and lovely like 
moonlight. 

Yes, and it flits about in the moonlight. 

Mabel says that of all the beautiful insects she has 
seen she thinks the Luna moth is the loveliest. 

And Ned thinks that nothing else so well deserves 
its name. 

Beautiful Luna! 

See what wonderful colors are in the wings. 






Its eye spots, or wing windows, are edged with red 
and yellow, and it has a margin of purple along the 
outer edge of the front wings. 

Its legs are a dull purple-red, and its body is heavily 

dressed in a coat of snow-white down, while its wings 

are an exquisite pale green color ; but no 

words can describe the beauty 

of this moth. 

Yes, Mayj moths belong to the 

same order as the butter- 

^ flies, ¡ª to the Lepidoptera. 

Nell says that our Luna is fuzzier than a butterfly. 

The moths are generally thicker and fuzzier than 

the butterflies. 

John wants to know from what kind of a caterpillar 
the Luna comes. 

It is a large caterpillar, as you would expect, and it 
is a handsome one. It is over three inches long when 
fully grown, and it is pale green in color, ¡ª not quite the 
color of the wings of the moth, but rather more bluish. 
It has a light yellow stripe running the length of its 
body on each side, and there are yellow bars across its 
back, with tufts of hairs growing from the top of each 
segment. 

Now see Ned's eyes sparkle! He has one of these 
caterpillars in a box in his pocket to show us. What 





a gorgeous great fellow ! And how plainly the spiracks 
show on its sides ! 

It feeds on the leaves of forest trees, and when it is 
ready to become a pupa it does not attach itself by the 
prolegs to some strong support and there transform in 
the open air. 

Oh, no ; this larva spins itself a snug cradle of silk. 

We call this cradle of the moth a ^' cocoon." ? 

Many species of moths make cocoons, though there 
are some that do not. 

The Luna likes to weave its cocoon on the ground 
among the fallen leaves, which it wraps about the 
outside of the cocoon. If you look under the trees in 
the fall of the year, 
may find some of the 
cocoons of the 

Luna moth ¡ª ^^??^^i'?/?^;^l'^^ 

lying like ripe "~^::: ^1;^^ M m |^^ f 

fruit on the grouinl " 

The Silk Moth 

Yes, John, the silkworm is the larva of a moth. 
It is really not a worm but a caterpillar. 

It is a very old friend of man ; for ages it has been 
cultivated for its silk, and the cocoon of this caterpillar 
is the source of our beautiful silk cloths. 





The silkworm ¡ª to use ita Gommon 
rjative of China, where for centurie^^ 
raised with 



name ¡ª is a 
it has been 
the great- 
est care, 
80 that it 
has changed 
very 
much 




animal It 
kind of mill 



in color and in the 

quality of its silk. 
In short, it has be- 
come a domestic 
feeds on the leaves of a certain 
berry tree that is also foimd in 
China. Of course the silkworm is no longer confined to 
China, but is raised in other parts of the world, ¡ª in Italy, 
for instance, whole families devoting all their time to 
the care of the silkworm. Even the little children help. 

Here is the pic- 
ture of a 

""¡ª ^^--^ It is a light<3olored 
caterpillar and it is about the size shown here. 





Yes, Mollie, it has a 
queer wrinkled hump on \ 
its back, but in spite of 
that it is rather a dainty 
looking little creature, 
and a great eater, as 
all caterpillars are. V^ 

When full grown 
the caterpillars weave a 
thick, smooth, roundish 
cocoon of very strongs fine 
threads which are pale yellow 
or white in color. 

Here is a picture of this cocoon, \ 'M^ my dears. 
As you can see, it is not much larger .f :^ than your 
mother's thimble, and yet from it / :^a^ can be un- 
wound a silken thread two miles ^ w long! 

This thread is indeed delicate! It is so fine that 
you can hardly see it, and within this wonderful cradle 
made of this fine silk lies a very dainty little pupa that 

finally becomes a pale and pretty 

moth, as you see here. 

It is creamy white in 

color, with some faint 

brownish lines on the wings. 

Only a few of the moths are allowed 



to come forth in a silk-raising establishment, ¡ª just 
enough to supply plenty of eggs for future use. 

The reason is not far to seek. If the moth emerges 
the cocoon is torn and the silk ruined. So after the 
cocoons are made they are heated hot enough to kill 
the pupae within. 

Before the silk is unwound the cocoon has to be 
soaked in boiling water to dissolve the gummy sub- 
stance that fastens the dehcate threads together and 
makes the cocoon waterproof to protect the little in- 
mate against wet weather. 

The silk used to be unwound by hand, but it is now 
done dexterously by machinery. 

The threads may be bleached or dyed any color that 
is desired. 

Silk cloth is not woven of single threads, but the 
fine threads are twisted together into coarser, stronger 
ones, though some of these are still very fine. More 
and more strands are twisted together to make coarser 
threads for weaving, and, also for making sewing 
silks. 

Our little silkworm is one of the most valuable of our 
insect friends, and its cocoons are every year worth 
many millions of dollars. 

Mabel wants to know if we could not use the silk 
from the cocoon of the Luna moth. 



No, the Luna moth makes a thin cocoon that contains 
very little silk, not enough to be of use. 

We have a large native moth, however, whose silk is 
sometimes used, but this silk is not so fine and beautiful 
as that of the silkworm. 

The Polyphemus 

The name of this native silk moth is the Polyphemus. 

Fortunately I have one of them to show you. 

Charlie thinks it is almost as beautiful as the Luna. 

It is yellowish brown in color, 
you see, with beau- 
tiful markings on 
the wings. 

Yes, like the 
Luna it has a little 
windowlike spot ¡ª 
"eye spot" it is called ¡ª on each 
of its wings. 

Its copoon looks like tliat of the 
Luna, but it contains much more silk. 

The caterpillar feeds on the leaves of 
forest and fruit trees, and it too rolls a 
leaf about its cocoun, weaving a strong 
band of silk about the twig to which the 
leaf grows, so that when the leaf is ready to 






fall it cannot do so. The cocoon hangs dangling to the 
tree, though sometimes it is made among the leaves on 
the ground. 

The Cecropia 

Another of these large cocoon-making moths common 

among us is the Cecropia. 
See tills one that flew into 
the sitting room 
one night. Is it 
not a wonder! It 
has on a red and 
white velvet coat, and 
its brown wings are beau- 
tifully marked with red 
and black and gray and white. 
Noj it has no windowlike spots 
in its wings, but it has a large, 
white, crescent-shaped spot, bordered 
with red and black, on each wing. 
It is a fuzzy fellow. 
And here, my dears, is its larva. 
Did you ever see such a big caterpillar ? And really 
it is very handsome. 

See the tubercles along its body. Do they not, make 
you think of the buttons on a gorgeous uniform ? 



Those near the head are like red coral, and see ! some 
of the others are bright blue and some yellow. 

No, it will not hurt you. 

You can let it walk on your hand. 

What is that, May,- ¡ª you wouldn't let it walk on 
your hand for anything in the world? 

Well, I don't believe it wants to walk on your hand. 

Now I will tell you what to do with it. 

Put it in a large box with netting over the top. Give 
it fresh apple or oak leaves every day ¡ª all it can eat. 

After a few days something will happen. 

Spinning 

Something is happening in the box with the Cecropia 
caterpillar. 

A large silken cocoon is growing like magic there. 

The larva has done eating ; it has become a spinner, 
¡ª a weaver, industrious, wonderful. 

See it toss its head about. A glistening thread follows 
wherever that little head moves. 

The silk is within the caterpillar in the form of a 
liquid. 

This liquid silk is drawn out in a fine thread through 
a spinning apparatus in the upper lip. 

The upper lip is modified to form a spinneret. 






As soon as the fine thread of liquid silk comes in 
contact with the air it hardens. 

Fine as it is, it is surrounded by a gummy substance 
that causes the threads to stick together. 

Thus supplied with plenty of the best of materials 
made in its own little body, our weaver is eager to 
work. 

It touches its lip to the side of the box ¡ª the thread 
clings there. It throws its head to the other side of the 
cocoon and again fastens the thread. 
Thus back and forth it weaves, the glistening threads 
quickly fallinfj into place. 

It makes an outer shell of silk smeared thick with 

the gummy substance to keep out the wet. 

Then it weaves a looser layer of soft, silken 

threads, and finishes by a close-woven 

cover to its body. 

No wonder you love to watch this 
matchless weaver, who spins his 
thread as he uses it and makes 
this strong, brown cocoon. 

By to-morrow he will be 

almost lost to view and in 

four or five days the cradle 

of the moth will be finished. 

What happens next ? 






Could you look within the silken walls, you would see 
strange things. 

The caterpillar that retired from our view soon dis- 
appears forever. 

A caterpillar went in, but a caterpillar will never 
come out again. 

If we could see through the cocoon a few days after 
it is spun, we should find a little shriveled-up mass, the 
skin of the caterpillar. But that 
is not aU. In front of it 
we should see, in place of 
the caterpillar, a pupa. 

Look carefully at the 
pupa. It bears hints of 
coming moth. 

The abdominal segments are plainly to be seen, with 
their large spiracles. 

The thorax, too, is distinguishable. 

Look close! see the antennae soldered down to the 
front of the thorax ! 

Legs, too, you can get a hint of, and the wing' pads 
show plainly, all tightly fastened down. 

This pupa hes motionless before us. It is hard and 
brown, but it is not dead. 

Touch it, and it will show that it is alive ; it will move 
its abdominal segments back and forth. 







That is the only motion it can make. 
You see the pupa of the moth looks like the chrys- 
alid of the butterfly. It is shaped very much like it, 
only it 13 heavier and clumsier looking, and I 
^lo not think the pupa of the moth is ever 
brightly colored like the 
pupa or chrysalid of cer- 
tain of the butterflies. 
We can take the pupa 
from the cocoon, if we 
are careful, and look at 
it and return it to its 
cradle without harming 
it. It will still transform. 
These cocoons are made in the fall of 
the year and the pupa lies through the 
winter in its snug cradle, but it knows 
when spring comes. An astonishing 
change then comes over it. 
The dark brown pupa shell is burst asunder, the silk 
at one end of the cocoon is moistened, the threads are 
pushed aside or broken, and out of the open prison the 
beautiful moth comes forth. 

It has left its dry, chitinous pupa shell in the cocoon* 
It clings to the cocoon or to the nearest object until its 
small wing pads expand and its wings harden; then 





when night spreads a curtain of darkness over the earth 
it will fly about. 

The caterpillar of the Cecropia, as yqu see, builds a 



ooloi\ 
attached to tree 



tent-shaped cocoon, dark brown in 

You can find these little tents 
twigs in the fall of the year. 

The Cecropia does not usually 
wrap a leaf about its cocoon 
like the Polyphemus, and it 
attaches the cocoon firmly to 
twigs, so that 
it is not often 
seen lying on 
ground. 

The Prometh 

The Prometlj 
another of the 
Silkworms, as tl 
cocoon-making moths are 

sometimes called. It is not as large, however, as our 
Polyphemus or Cecropia. 

It looks a little like a smaller edition of the Cecropia, 
and it is the most abundant of all these large moths. 

We often see its cocoons hanging on lilac bushes. 





It is a very pretty cocoon, wrapped in a leaf; but Pro- 
metheus is far more careful of herself than is Luna. 

She is not going to he on the ground among the 
fallen leaves! She carefully winds silk all over the 
stem of the leaf and around the twig to which the leaf 
grows. 

Thus she ties the leaf to its own twig, as Poly- 
phemus often does, and all winter long the little 
cocoon swings back and forth in the wind. 

The pupa inside lies safe, 
waiting for the 



The Io 

Ah, Charlie ! you have 
something to show us. 

It is another of the Giant 
Silkworms, ¡ª it is the Io 
moth. 

You see it has red fore 
wings, which shows that it is a female moth. The male 
Io is yellow, and he is a good deal smaller than the female. 
Yes, May, the male insect is often quite different in 
appearance from the female, and he is almost always 
smaller. 

You will find the males of the butterflies and moths 
noticeably smaller than the females as a rule, and the 
female moths have \ narrower antennsB than the males. 

Iti is a ^^ wicked-looking 

It is covered all over 

s^harp prickles that 

sting like nettles if 

you touch them. 

Yes, that is its method of 

protecting itself. 

You may be sure it does 

hide away. It is green with 

lilack-tipped spines and it has a brown stripe 



The larva of the 
cat er 

w i t Ii 





down each of its sides. Most children know them and 
are careful not to touch them. 

No, John, not many of the caterpillars are as well 
protected as our venomous lo ; that is, they are not so 
well protected from us. 

A good many of them are gifted with a bad flavor 
that keeps the birds at bay, and little Nell says truly 
that like the grasshoppers a good many of them "make 
molasses " and spit it out on oiu- fingers when we touch 
them. 

The Woolly Bear 

No, Mabel, not all moths make cocoons, though a good 
many do. 

Butterflies never make cocoons. 
You can get some very beautiful moths by collecting 
cocoons and keeping them until the moths come out. 

Look for them all summer, but particularly in the fall 
of the year. , 

Be careful not to mistake a case of spider's eggs for 
--__^ a cocoon. 

^ The case in which the spider 

/ r lays its eggs sometimes looks 
very much like a little cocoon, for 
cocoons are not always large. 
What do you suppose hatches out 






of the little fuzzy cocoons we so often see in fence 
corners ? 

See, John has one of these little cocoons. 

They are not made wholly of silk. They are made 
of felt, like a felt hat, you know. The caterpillar takes 
the hairs from its own body and with a little silk and 
gum mats them together into a feltlike substance. 

John says it must be a hairy caterpillar that 
does this. Yes, it is our little friend the 
Woolly Bear. You all know tlie fellow witli 
a heavy coat of fur, black at 
the head and tail ends and 
tawny in the middle, and that 
suddenly curls up when you 
touch him. 

We often see him hastening along the 
paths in the fall of the year. 

His real name is the Isabella Tiger moth. 

A near relative to this one is the Yellow Bear, a very 
common caterpillar indeed, with a coat of long, yellow 
hairs. 

It also makes its cocoon out of its own hairs, and 
the moth that emerges is the snowy white little miller 
with black dots on its wings, that we sometimes sur- 
prise into daylight flight when we walk in the grass or 
among the bushes. 








Millers and Other Moths 

^^ Oh, indeed, there are a great many 
species of inothB, Some are large and 
V^ some are smalL Some make cocoons 
and some do not. Some come from 
smooth caterpillars and some from hairy 
or prickly ones. 
We call the smaller moths millers. 
You all know the millers. 

Most of the moths drop their wings down 
roof -like over their backs when they 
^^^f are not flying. Very few, except the 
^f Giant Silkworms, keep their wings 
spread. No, not all moths have feathery 
antemue. Some have long, slim ones, 
bnt without knobs at the ends. 
Knobbed antennae belong to the but- 
terflies, you know. There are 
many, many moths, ¡ª and just 



as many caterpillars. In the summer time caterpil- 
lars seem to be everywhere, ¡ª green ones and brown 
ones, striped and streaked and spotted and speckled 
ones, smooth ones and fuzzy ones, spiny and prickly ones, 
bright ones and dull ones, tufted ones and humpbacked 
ones, large ones and small ones, ¡ª and they all eat, 
eat, eat the green leaves, or the fruits, or the bark, 
or the wood. 

Some we can pick up, others have a very bad odor, 
and others again are covered with prickles that sting 
like nettles. 

Some moths are our good friends, like those that give 
us silk ; others do us no harm ; but a good many are 
very destructive to vegetation while in the larval state. 

The Akmy Worm and Tent Caterpillar 

Yes, May, the Army worms are caterpillars. They 
are not worms. 

We often see caterpillars that we call Army worms, 
but we do not notice them particularly luiless they 
occur in very large numbers. 

This caterpillar is about an inch and a half long and 
is striped with yellow and black. It has no hairs on its 
body, therefore we say it is naked. 

You know why the Army worm has its name. 





Yes, Ned, it sometimes appears in countless numbers, 
¡ª an army that goes marching over the fields destrojdng 
everything before it. An army of these caterpillars is 
a terrible sight to the farmer. 

The miller that comes from the Army worm is dull 
brown with a white spot on each fore wing. 

Another troublesome larva is the Tent caterpillar. 
You have seen its tents many a time in the apple trees. 
When these tents are first made they are often quite 
handsome, but ; the caterpillars, unlike the spiders, 
housekeepers. They take no, pains 
to keep their web clean, and it 
soon becomes very- 
dirty and disagreeable 
to look at. 

These caterpillars 
are social in their 
habits; they do not 
wander far from home. 

night they all return 
to the tent they have made. 
h you suppose they talk over 
events of the day? 
They are often seen hanging from 
the leaf by a thread of silk. 

Wherever the Tent caterpillar goes it spins its thread. 





Perhaps it does so in order to find its way 
home at night. I do not think it can see where 
to go with its tiny, simple eyes. 

It may use the thread as Ariadne used the 
clue to help Theseus find his way out of 
the labyrinth. 

Do you know the story of Ariadne and the 
labyrinth? Get somebody to tell it to you. 

The Tent caterpil j^ lars are very destructive to 

farmers dread them and 
with torches when the cater- 
for the night, 
that come from these cat- 
close together on a twig and 
stance that protects them from 
remain unhatched through 
early in the spring the young 
hatch out. 



fruit trees. The 
often burn their tents 
pillars are at home 

The brown moths 
erpillars lay the eggs 
cover them with a sub 
the wet. The eggs 
the winter, but 
cater pillars 

They travel 




along the twigs and 
branches until they 
find a fork that 
suits them. 

Here they 
make their 

tent and eat the buds and young leaves of the tree. 
Is it not wonderful how the moths and butterflies 






remember just what kind of leaves the larvae must have 
to eat ? The butterfly and the moth eat nothing but 
honey or fruit juice. The caterpillars need certain kinds 
of leaves. 

Each butterfly, each moth, remembers to lay the eggs 
on or near the right kind of plant, so that when the 
little caterpillars hatch out they will have food. 

You see they provide for their young although they 
pay no attention to them after the eggs are once laid. 

John says he thinks all insects provide 
for their young. 

Very true, John; but some are more 
careful parents than others. 

However, all remem- 
ber to lay the eggs in 
places that are suitable fur 
the young. 

The Measuring Worm 

What is little Nell looking at so care- 
fully? 

She has a Measuring worm on her finger. 

May thinks it should be called a " measuring 
caterpillar.'' 

It certainly is a caterpillar, 

What a cunning fellow! 




See how industriously it is measuring little Nell's 
finger. There it goes! 

No, it has not fallen to the ground. It is suspended 
in mid-air by a cord of silk. 

The Measuring worms are cautious travelers. They 
are always provided with a silken cable to catch them 
in case they fall. 

May has just discovered that the Measuring worm 
has no prolegs in the middle of its body. 

John says that is why it walks in loops. 

Having no legs in the middle, it draws those at the 
tail end close up to those at the head end and humps 
up its back at every step. 

No, it has not as many prolegs as the 
other caterpillars. Generally it has 
only four instead of ten. 

Have you ever seen a little /^ 7 
brown Measuring worm / ^ ] 
standing on its hind feet, its , \\' . w 
body stiff and straight like 
a little dead twig on a bush ? 

Yes, you all know what that 
means. Little Loop worm has no idea of being swal- 
lowed by a bird, so all day long he stands reared up 
on end and " plays possum/' but when night comes he 
gets down and goes to feeding in the safe darkness. 



The moths of the Measuring worms are dainty little 
creatures that fly up when we go for a walk in the 
woods or fields. 

Many of these moths do us no harm, but others are 
very troublesome, as the Cankerworm, which is the 
most destructive of all the Measuring worms. 

The innocent- ^^^^ V y looking little 

moth lays her ^^^^^^^^^^^ff" ^ggs on fruit or 
shade trees, and ^K^^rw^^^ when they hatch 
the little caterpil ^^^--^ ^K^^ lo^^g proceed to eat 
the leaves of the tree on which they find themselves. 

When full grown they let themselves down from the 
tree by their silk thread and bury themselves in the 
ground to pass the pupal stage. 

One kind of Cankerworm makes a little cocoon 
down in the ground; the other kind just hollows out 
a place and transforms without troubling itself to make 
a cocoon. 

Ned wants to know how the moth finds its way to 
the upper world again. He says he should not think 
it could dig its way out of the ground without soiling 
its wings. 

No, it could not. 

It comes to the surface of the earth while it is still 
a hard, smooth pupa. It wriggles up by moving its 
abdominal segments. 



There is something very curious about the Canker- 
worms. The female moths have rudimentary wings, 
and so of course they cannot fly. 

They have to climb up the tree to lay their eggs on 
the branches. 

People sometimes paint a ring of tar or some other 
sticky substance around the trunks of their trees and 
thus prevent the moth from going up to lay the eggs. 

The Gypsy Moth 

No, John, we cannot get rid of the Gypsy moth so 
easily. It has, you know, become a serious nuisance in 
New England. 

It did not originally belong to this country, but was 
brought here from Europe. 

The female lays the eggs in a^*; 
mass and covers them with hairs f rom^ 
her own body. k^ 

She is quite a pretty little mothj ^^-^-^ 
with dark markings on her wings. 

The caterpillar of the Gypsy moth is quite a gay 
looking brigand. If it were not so troublesome a ma- 
rauder, we might admire its black body striped with 
yellow lines and ornamented with red and yellow tuber- 
cles bearing stiff, black hairs. 






A large force of men have to be hired each spring 
to collect and destroy the egg clusters and cocoons 
of the Gypsy moth from the trees in the parks of 
Boston and in many adjoining towns. 



The Codlin Moth 

Caterpillars cause us very great trouble. We have to 
be constantly fighting some of them in order to have 
anything to eat ourselves. 

Some species eat our vegetables, others our grains, 
and yet others our fruits. 

There is the Codlin moth, for instance. You may not 
know the moth itself, but you all know its larva, the 
little white " worm " at the cores of apples. 

It bores into the apple through the bud, eats all it 
wants, and when ready to transform, bores out through 
the side of the apple. This larva 
does look very much like a worm, 
but it is not a worm. 

Because it has lived in apple 
cores for so many generations its 
legs are very small and weak. 

But, you see, it transforms into 
a moth, so it cannot be a worm. 
If you keep the larva from a 




wormy apple for some time and give it plenty to eat, 
you may have a chance to watch it spin its little 
cocoon. The next spring, early, out of the cocoon will 
come a very dainty, lovely little moth dressed in pearly 
gray or rose pink robes. 

It looks far too beautiful to be mischievous. 

But be not deceived ! 

This elegant little fairy, if she gets the chance, will 
lay an egg in the bud end of the young apple soon after 
the petals have fallen, and there will be another wormy 
apple to testify to the activity of the Codlin moth. 

The Leaf Rollers 

See here ! Who do you suppose rolled 
this leaf up in that clever fashion ? 

Let us unroll it. Ah! that is easier 
said than done. See ! it has been fastened 
together by threads of silk. But in spite 
of that let us imroll it and find out, if we 
can, who this Leaf roller is. 

Ah ! I thought so. See that little 
caterpillar scurry back out of sight. 
He is very much frightened to have 
his home thus invaded. He rolls himself up in a 
leaf to hide from the light and then he is also 



safer from hungry birds and preying insects. Very 
many of the Leaf rollers eat the leaves which they roll 
about themselves. 

It must be very convenient to wrap yourself up and 
then find your blankets good to eat when you are 
hungry. 

May says that the edges of these blankets are bound 
with silk just like the edge of the blanket that mother 
made for baby. 

Look closely at this, all of you, and I think you will 
see a difference. 

See, May ; the caterpillars do indeed fasten the edges 
of the leaf together with silk, but they do not sew 
through and through as mother did, making a pretty 
silken binding. 

Some species fasten several leaves together, forming 
quite a web. Some of them mine into the leaf, making 
tunnels all over it. 

Oh, yes, you have all seen these leaves rolled up or 
embroidered by the caterpillars, and sometimes the work 
is done by the tiniest of tiny larvae that transform into 
minute but very beautiful little moths. 

Of course you all remember that caterpillars are 
larvce, and that the larva is the first stage of the insect 
after it comes out of the egg. 





The Sphinx Moth 



Listen ! What sound is that we hear ? 

Mollie says it is a humming bird. 

Let us look, ¡ª there, in the trumpet flower over 
the fence. 

Is it a humming bird ? 

No, it is a Humming-bird moth. 

What a pretty thing ! See it poise before the flower 
on steady, whirring wings. How quickly it darts about ! 

It has very strong wings, ¡ª stronger than any other 
moth, although some Hawk moths are small. Because 
of its strong wings it is also called the Hawk moth, for 
hawks, you know, have great strength of wing. 

These moths usually fly in the twilight, though we 
sometimes see one in the daytime. 






These moths, I think, have the longest tongues of any 
of the Lepidoptera. Such tongues can reach to the 
bottom of the flowers that have the longest tubes. 

Yes, John, these are also called Sphinx moths. 

The reason is ^^mm,. rather curious. 

The Egyptian f ^K Sphinx, jou remember, is 
a great stone f f/\ 1 image half buried m the 
sands of the V 7 J desert. It has the body 
of a lion and J the face of a woman. 




It is a great mytjtery t.L>Tj|7 ^he modern world, though 
no doubt it was once a temple built by the ancient 
Egyptians for the worship of their gods. 

Of course you cannot understand why any one should 
be reminded of the Hawk moth when thinking of the 
Sphinx of Egypt. 

Indeed, the resemblance is very fanciful and refers 
not to the moth but to the queer-acting larva, which is 
really a great beauty. When disturbed or when it is 
resting it rears up in a ridiculous manner, and people 
have imagined it looks like the Sphinx ! 


I do not think it does ; but at least it is mysterious, 
like the Sphinx. 

It goes down into the ground to 
transform. The pupa is dark brown 
and is large, as you 
would expect. You 
may see it by saving the 
caterpillars and letting 
them transform in a box 
of earth. 

Some species transform 
above ground in little shel- 
ters made by fastening 
leaves together with 
silk. Silk is certainly very convenient for the cater- 
pillars. Many of them are always ready with a supply. 

No, Ned, the butterfly and moth cannot make silk ; 
that power belongs exclusively to the larva. 

The large, green Tomato worm is the larva of one of 

our largest and hand- 
somest Sphinxes. 
Its pupa is often 
plowed up in gardens 
and can be recognized quickly because the tongue case 
is not soldered down to the body, as in other pupae, but is 
free, like a handle. 




The Sphinxes are very handsome creatures, though 
their upper wings are not brilliantly colored. They are 
rather sober-looking brown moths and carry their wings 
folded down over their bodies. 

You need to look closely to see how beautiful these 
sober-hued wings are. The Sphinxes are at their best 
when flying, for what is prettier than a Humming-bird 
moth hovering in front of a flower? 

Other Brown Moths 

There are a great many big brown 
moths that are not Sphinxes. 

They often fly in at the window at night 
and insist upon singeing their wings over 
the flame of the lamp. 

Sometimes we see them resting on the 
wall in the morning, ¡ª those that have escaped being 

burned, ¡ª their wings 
like long, brown cloaks 
about them, folded over 
their backs, as is the fashion 
of the moths. 
But if they raise their upper 
wings, these brown moths are no longer dull. 

The under wings are often gayly trimmed with 
bright colors, ¡ª red and yellow and white. 





The Clothes Moth 

What eats holes in our best clothes and rums our 
furs? 

Nobody needs an introduction to the silvery little 
rascal that invades every home and causes us to worry 
over cedar chests, camphor, or moth 
balls as soon as winter is over. ^SL^^^^^^J^^ 

And yet if you were to see one of ^^^^ 




these little pests under the microscope, 

you could not help admiring it. / 

Its tiny wings are bordered with lovely fringes and 
covered with silvery scales. No fairy could be more 
daintily dressed. 

The little moths themselves do no harm ; it is their 
larvae that feed on our clothes. 

The eggs are laid on woolen cloth or fur. They 
hatch into tender little caterpillars that creep about in 
the dark, eating holes in the clothes. 

They spin a tube as they go ¡ª that is, some of them 
do ¡ª and mix bits of cloth with their own silk. In 
this tube a wonderful transformation takes place when, 
instead of a creeping caterpillar, there presently emerges 
a winged creature. 

Those that do not build tubes make a tiny silken 
cocoon in which to transform. 







The Flannel Moth and Meal Moth 

If the Clothes moths eat wool, here is a fellow who 
looks as if he were made of wool. See, it is the 
Flannel moth, and surely if ever an insect was well 
named, it is this one. 

Yes, it is very pretty with its cream- 
colored body and its fuzzy wings. 

The caterpillars of these moths differ 
from all other caterpillars by having an 
extra number of prolegs. 
Instead of ten prolegs they have fourteen. Yes, Nell, 
they have seven pairs of prolegs instead of five pairs. 

They make queer-looking cocoons, too, ¡ª queer not 
only in shape, but opening by a sort of trap i door. 
Here is one of them. 

Another which is almost as com- 
mon in our houses as the Clothes 
moth is the Indian-meal moth, 
whose larva gets into meal and 
dried fruits. This little, whitish, 
wormlike creature not only eati^ 
meal but spins delicate silken tubes all through them. 
Yes, indeed, we are all familiar with the traces of 
these little nuisances, though we may not know by sight 
the little moth that comes from the troublesome visitors. 




our fruit and 






The Skippers 

Just see the strange-looking caterpillar Amy 
has brought us! 

What a remarkably large head and long neck 
it has ! She found it rolled up in a leaf, 

I think it is the larva of one of the 
Skippers. These dark-colored little 
fellows seem to belong to both the 
butterflies and the moths. 

They fly in the daytime, which is like the butterflies, 
but they have stout bodies like the moths. 

Their antennaa are like those of the butterflies, except- 
ing that there is usually a little sharp tip beyond the 
knob, and they hold their wings like them. 

The pupa of the Skippers resembles the pupa of the 
moth, and the larva builds a slight cocoon, which is 

very decidedly a moth 
characteristic. 
Oh, yes, the Skippers are 
common enough, Ned. 
Do you not remember the brown 
butterfies that dart suddenly from 
a bush as you walk along ? 
They flash ahead and are resting on 
another bush so quickly that we cannot 





see what has become of them miless we are very 
attentive indeed. 

It is their habit of making these short, swift flights 
that has given them their name. 

They have big heads and their brown wings have 
white patches on them, and often patches through 
which the light shows. 

The Bagworm Moth 

Little Nell has foimd a caddice worm crawling on a 
tree. 

How very remarkable ! 

See, does it not look like a caddice ? 

^ No, indeed, it is not one. It is 
the queerest of the moths and its 
name of Bagworm moth is well 
bestowed. 

The larva makes its bag of silk 
and little twigs and moves about 
until it is full grown. 

Then it fastens its bag to a twig. 

One often sees these queer little 

cases dangling like so many brown 

tassels from the twigs of a tree. 

Within the bag the pupa forms and 





the moth comes out. But the female moth never leaves 
the home of her infancy. 

She has no wings, so when she emerges from the 
pupa case she remains within the bag. 

Here the eggs are laid, and when they hatch the 
little caterpillars creep out and each makes a tiny bag 
for itself. 

As it grows it enlarges the bag at the open end. 

The males come out of the bags as soon as they leave 
the pupa case, for they have wings with which to fly. 

Collecting Caterpillars 

Indeed, May, there is no end to the moths and 
butterflies. 

We might study them for years and yet we should 
not know them all. 

The best we have been able to do is to make the 
acquaintance of some of the more common ones, and 
of course in learning about them we have learned 
to know something of the habits of all Lepidop- 
tera, for in a general way they are alike. 

A very pleasant way to make the acquaint- 
ance of the butterflies and moths is to collect 
the caterpillars wherever you find them and take 
them home and keep them to look at. 







Towards the end of summer and in the autumn we 
often see large caterpillars wandering about apparently 
going nowhere. In reality they are seeking a place in 
which to metamorphose. They have done eating larval 
food forever. They will never consume another leaf. 
The silk glands in the heads of those that spin are 
now full to overflowing. 

If you take these wandering ones and put them in a 
box of earth, you may have the pleasure of owning some 
very beautiful butterflies and moths. Give them plenty 
of room and fresh air and at least six inches of good 
clean earth. 

If they are cocoon makers they will soon begin to 

\{ spin ; if they are not they will attach themselves to the 

^ sides of the box and become chrysalids, or they will 

burrow down into the ground, there to undergo the 

great change. 

Yes, indeed, Charlie ; another good way is to collect 
the caterpillars with a supply of the leaves on which 
they are feeding. 

Keep them well fed in the box of earth and do not 
forget to give them a drop of water occasionally. Cat- 
erpillars are thirsty creatures and eagerly drink up a 
few drops of water sprinkled on the leaves. 

The substance of the leaf itself does not seem to con- 
tain quite enough moisture to satisfy them, and it is 






I' 






quite interest- 
ing to watch 
the little mouths 
search around 
near the drop of water until it is 
found, when it is quickly sucked up. 
Of course the box in which the cat- 
,¡ª L tME^ erpillars are kept will need to be covered 
yS'Vl ^*th a piece of netting to prevent the 

captives from walking off when they have 
done eating and are ready to hunt up a good 
place in which to transform. 

There is no pleasanter way of amusing oneself out of 
doors in the fall of the year than in hunting for the 
caterpillars and watching them prepare for their winter 
sleep. Later in the season ¡ª in October and November, 
and indeed all through the winter ¡ª we can hunt for the 
cocoons attached to the twigs of trees, or dangling on 
slender cords from bushes, or safely tucked away in 
fence corners, the crevices of old stone walls, under 
piazza roofs, or anywhere else where protection is 
afforded to the helpless occupants of the cocoons. 



Yes, May, it is much more interesting to go walking 
with some object in. view. Even in the winter months 
when the snow is deep on the ground we can enjoy the 
woods and fields, and even then we can add to our store 
of cocoons. It is only necessary to keep our eyes open 
as we walk along. You know we can learn to see 
things by looking very carefully at first, then after 
a while we will notice the things about us without 
making any apparent effort. 

Oh, yes, we can have butterflies and moths even in 
midwinter by keeping the cocoons in the warm house. 
The heat causes them to undergo their metamorphosis 
more rapidly. 

Yes, it is a pity to have them come out too early, for 
they cannot fly out of doors, and soon die. 

Remember to keep the earth in the caterpillar box a 
little moist if the box is kept in the warm house, other- 
wise the dry air may cause the wings to shrivel up 
before they have had time fully to expand. 

I am sure you will have a great deal of pleasure 
watching the caterpillars and the beautiful butterflies 
and moths. 









FLIES 

Buzz! buzz! buzz! 

Listen to the flies. ^ 

They take possession of the ^"^^ 
earth in the summer time. 

We cannot keep them out of our 
houses even with screens. 

They seem to enjoy walking over our _Z^\^ 
faces when we are asleep, particularly 
in the early morning. But though the flies __vr-^ 
are so troublesome they also do a great deal of good. 

What, May, you cannot imagine how a fly can be 
of any use ? 

Nevertheless, the fly helps to keep the world clean. 

Like the turkey buzzard it is a very good scavenger. 

You know how quickly dead animals decompose in 
warm countries, and how bad any sort of refuse matter 
is in those regions. 

Well, the buzzard is always on hand. As soon as an 
animal dies he is there, and in a few hours not a vestige 
remains but polished bones that the hot sun soon makes 
perfectly dry and clean. 





The buzzards watch about the peoples' houses and 
quickly consume anything that is thrown out. 

So useful are these large, awkward birds that no one 
f^^\ ever thinks of killing one. Indeed, in many places, 
there is a heavy fine imposed for killing a buzzard 
that in spite of its good deeds is no beauty. Its 
lead is bare and suggests its horrible food ; 
is body is large and awkward, though when 
t flies it is one of the most beautiful things 
in nature. It spreads its great wings and 
soars and floats in the air for hours at a 
time, seeming scarce to move a pinion. 
The flies are the insect buzzards. 
They help the buzzards in hot countries, 
and in the North where there are no buz- 
zards they perform an important service. 

You see it is not the adult fly that does the work. It 
is the larva. 

John says it never occurred to 

him that flies came from larvae. ,-¡ª*-- 

But they do. -^^^^ 

The larva of the fly is the little -iir 

footless thing we call a maggot. 

Probably you have all seen maggots in decaying 
animal or vegetable matter, and here is the picture of 
some enlarged. 





The fly lays the egg and it soon hatches into this 
little white wormlike creature. 

No, it is not really a worm, though it much resembles 
one. 

Why is it not a worm, May ? 

Yes, because it will transform into a six-legged 
winged creature. True worms never do that. 

Cheese Skippers 

Maggots are often found in cheese, where they are 
called skippers because they skip about so when 
disturbed. 

How can they skip without legs ? 

That is easy enough for a maggot. It just doubles 
its head end and tail end close together and suddenly 
straightens out. 

Some people think that maggots are natural to some 
kinds of cheese, but this is not so. 

There are no maggots excepting those that hatch 
from the eggs of flies. The cheese maggot comes from 
the egg of a small black fly only half as large as a 
house fly; these maggots are also found on ham and 
bacon. 

If food is covered so that flies cannot get into it, it 
will never contain maggots. 






Flesh Flies 

Some species of flies lay their eggs in meat, and we 
have to be careful in the summer time not to leave the 
meat exposed or we shall be sure to find little patches 
of small white eggs on it. 

These are the eggs of the flesh-eating flies. 



Metamorphosis of Flies 

When maggots have eaten and grown and molted in 
the usual way, they change into pupae. 

Sometimes they make a cocoon of delicate silk before 
they change, but some species remain in the last larval 
skin, which shrinks and hardens into 
a pupa case and is called a puparium. 
Yes, John, the flies imdergo a com- 
plete metamorphosis; here are pic- 
tures of the adult fly, the long, slen- 
der maggot, and the shorter, thicker 
puparium. 

Yes, indeed, these are all. a good 
deal magnified, so that we can see 
them distinctly. 

No, May, flies do not grow after 
their final metamorphosis. When 









they come out of the pupa state as winged flies 
they are as large as they ever will be. 

This is true of all insects. They do not grow 
after their last molt. 

The flies do all their growing while they are maggots. 
The tiny flies we sometimes see will not grow any 
larger. They are a small species. They 
come from small maggots. 

There are a great many species of flies 
in the world. Some are large and some 
are small, but they all have their mouth 
parts formed into a tube for sucking, and some can 
also pierce with their mouth tube. 

Yes, indeed, John, some flies are very 
troublesome or even dangerous to us, and 
on the whole it is a question whether the 
Fly Order is not more injurious than bene- 
ficial to the human race. 

Although the flies are scavengers, and although the 
larvae of some species live on certain injurious insects 
and destroy them, yet many of the flies are instru- 
mental in spreading diseases. 
1/1 1 The fly crawls over or sucks the blood 
of the diseased animals or persons and 
then carries the poison to a healthy person. 
It has recently been discovered that flies 






carry the germs of malaria, as we have heard, and are 
important instruments in spreading this troublesome 
disease. 

The House Fly 

The fly we know best is the common house fly. 
Perhaps you would like to know its name. It is the 
Musca domestica. 

You all know very well indeed how it 
looks, with its big eyes and glassy wings. 

Under a magnifying glass its body is 
rather hairy, although it looks so smooth to 
the naked eye. 

Yes, Ned, the fly has only two wings, and in that 
respect it differs from other insects. 

As you might guess, the Fly Order is the Diptera, 
from pteroii, a wing, and dis^ two. 

Behind the wings and in place of the hind 
wings, which are lacking, you can see on each 
side a little threadlike stalk with a knob on 
top. It is called the halter. 

Nearly all flies have these halteres. 

They are really rudimentary wings, and they show 
that once the fly had four wings. 

For some reason the hind wings dwindled to these 
halteres. 




There is nothing unusual about the legs of the fly. 
They are used for walking and for holding fast. 

Yes, little Nell, we remember about the foot of the 
fly, and how it is able to cling to smooth surfaces by 
the sticky hairs on the pulvillus. 

Yes, May, the antennsB are rather curious. They are 
short and thick and ^itMMU f ^^^ down in front of 
the face, with a little ' ^^j^^^ - featherlike bristle 
sticking out of each. *^ The tongue, you 

know, is doubled back under the head when not in use. 

You have all watched the fly eat with its thick short 
tongue, which is in the form of a tube by which it 
sucks up its food. 

House flies lay their eggs in horse manure, and so 
where the stable is near the house, flies will appear in 
swarms that blacken the walls. 

As the fly lays over one hundred eggs, and as it takes 
only about ^ week for the adult to appear after the egg 
is laid, you see there is opportunity for a good many 
flies to be bom in the course of a season. 

Stables should be kept very clean indeed, as house 
flies are known to carry diseases, and every means 
should be adopted to lessen their numbers. 

No, May, house flies do not bite. 

Ned says he has always heard that when the flies 
bite it is a sign of rain. 






That is so, but it is not the house fly that bites. The 
house fly is very annoying by walking over us and tick- 
ling our faces, but its tongue can only suck up juices. 

There is a fly, however, that looks like the house fly 
unless examined very carefully; this one bites and is 
the nuisance that finds shelter in our houses to escape 
an approaching storm. 

Some flies as you very well know are able to pierce 
with the mouth tube ; such is the horsefly and the fly 
that comes before the rain. 





The Horsefly 

See, there goes a big 
black horsefly ! 

Not all horseflies 
are large, however, 

and not all are black. Some have 

white patches on their wings, but 

large or small, black or not, they all can 

bile. They worry horses and cattle nearly 

to death in the summer time. 

They hide in the bushes by the roadside 

and when you come driving along, out they 

d'art and pounce upon your poor horses. 

Some of them bite us as well as our horses. 






When riding or driving tlirough 
the woods in summer we should 
always put branches of leaves in 
the horses' bridles, letting them 
hang over their ears and heads ' 
to keep off these flies; the 
Wild Indigo plant is a 
good one to use. It 
grows nearly everywhere 
along the roadsides; it 
bushy, and the flies dislike it. 

Now I must tell you something 
rather curious about the horsefly. It Ls the female alone 
that bites. The mouth parts of the male are small and 
are not able to pierce tough skin, and so he contents him- 
self with flower juices and water for his frugal repast. 
It is only the female among all the blood-sucking flies 
that is able to commit painful depredations 
upon our persons. For the most part 
she, too, contents herself with flower 
juices and other vegetable food, 
but when she gets her chance, ¡ª 
well, she makes the most of it. 

The horseflies are also called 
"gadflies" and '^deerflies." The 
bite of the gadfly is painful, but 





it does not last long, for fortunately it does not poison 
the blood as does the bite of the mosquito. But it is 
a dangerous fly, nevertheless, for it is known to carry 
disease germs to healthy horses and cattle. 

Horseflies are most abundant near wet places in the 
woods, and the larvae of some of them live in the water. 

The eggs are laid in the summer time and soon hatch 
into larvae. The larvae of the common black horseflies 
hibernate, and the adults come out early the next season, 
so we have the horsefly with us all simimer. 

Yes, the horsefly often spoils the pleasure of a walk 
or a drive in the country for us as well as for our 
horses, for several species of horseflies also bite human 
beings. 

John says he once had to walk by the horse's side to 
brush off the horseflies that clustered in a black cloud 
about its face and ears, driving the poor animal almost 
crazy. 

This often happens in wooded roads in midsimimer. 
I once drove a horse that was very sensitive to these 
flies. When even a single one settled on his neck or ear 
he would begin to groan in the most heartrending man- 
ner and continue to do so until I got out and brushed 
away the fly. You see that was his way of saying, 
" Please, dear mistress, come and take that tormenting 
fly away from my head." 






The Crane Fly 

Now do see that crane fly on the wall. What legs! 

Long Legs, I should think you would always be trip- 
pmg over yourself. 

Yes, MoUie, how plainly the halteres show on the 
crane fly ! 

Our crane flies do not bite. Suppose our friend here 
had a mouth tube as long as its legs, and sharp withal ! 





Now let US go to the little brook across 
^^ ^¡êJ^ the field and look along the edge. See, there 
by the roots of those weeds ¡ª what is 
it ? A spider's web full of crane flies ? 
No, just crane flies, numbers of 
them, all hanging together 
by their long legs. 

See, there are 





two or three of 
them dancing about. 



They lay their eggs in running water, though some 
species lay them in the ground. 

Yes, they look considerably like enormous mosquitoes, 
but fortunately for us they are not mosquitoes. 



The Mosquito 

Now, May, what do you think the mosquito is? 

May says she knows what it is, ¡ª 
it is a nuisance. ^^ 

Yes, it is a nuisance, but it is also 
a fly. 

Yes, my dears, the mosquito is 
but a species of biting fly. 

Like the other biting flies it is ^ 
only the female that bites. 




> 





She alone has power to suck our blood. 
The male mosquito is a harmless 
and pretty little gentleman^ 
who eats the sweet nectar of 
flowers and spares us, because 
he cannot bite. 

Although we may be 
tempted ¡ª when in a mos- 
quito-infested region ¡ª to 
believe that mosquitoes live upon nothing but human 
blood, yet as a matter of fact their principal diet is 
vegetable juices, flower nectar especially, and they are 

all, male and female alike, 
very fond of sweets, attack- 
ing the molasses jug as 
voraciously as flies when 
they get the chance. 

It is only a few out of 
the whole number of mos- 
quitoes living at any one 
time that get a chance to 
taste blood. 

The females, however, 
are very fond of it, and bite 
not only long-suffering humanity but horses and cattle 
as well, sometimes worrying the poor creatures sick, for 





unfortunately the bite of the mosquito is poisonous, and 
that is why it is so irritating to the skin. It probably 
injects a httle of its saliva into the wound it makes. 

Mosquitoes do not confine their attention to warm- 
blooded animals, but have been seen complacently filling 
a long-felt want from the heads of young fish, the 
chrysalids of butterflies, and presumably they would 
attack any Hving creature that they could reach and 
whose skin was not too tough. 

Since mosquitoes lay their eggs in water, much can 
be done towards getting rid of them by draining the 
swamps and filling up the wet places. 

Sometimes kerosene oil is put on ponds to destroy 
the mosquito larvae. 

Mosquitoes breed not only in swamps and ponds but 
in any stagnant water, and as it needs but a few days 
for the larvae to develop, a very small quantity of water 
will suffice to accommodate a large and hungry swarm 
of these unwelcome guests. 

Eain-water barrels are often the unsuspected strong- 
holds whence pour forth mighty hosts of bloodthirsty 
barbarians to make life miserable for the innocent 
inmates of country houses. 

You all know the larva of the mosquito. Yes, Mabel, 
it is the curious " wriggler " we so often see in stagnant 
water. 






Here are some in a tumbler. They 
look longer than they are, for the 
glass sides of the tumbler magnify 
them. 

The mosquito lays its eggs in a 
mass that floats like a raft on top 
of the water. When the weather 
is warm the eggs hatch in a few 
hours, and out of each egg comes 
a wriggler. 

This remarkable larva is often seen head down and 
tail up near the surface of the water. 

It seems to be standing on its head for no reason 
whatever. But it has a very good reason. Coming out 
of the side of its abdomen near the tip is a tube in 
_ which are two air vessels, and it is the 
tip end of this tube it is sticking out 
of the water. 

You see that is the way it breathes. 
At the tip of the abdomen are six 
hairs and four little flaps that give it 
quite an ornamental appearance. These 
appendages, however, are not for orna- 
ment, but to aid in propelling this active little larva 
through the water, for, as you very well know, it does 
not remain quietly breathing all day long. 





It comes to the surface for air; then snap, skip, 
whirligig, wriggle ! What has become of it ? It seems 
to have taken a fit; but no, it has merely taken itself 
to the bottom of the water, where it goes whirligigging 
about for something to eat. It has a big head, you 
see, and there are hairs about its ever-ready mouth that 
are in constant motion, fanning into it tiny particles of 
animal and vegetable matter. 

It molts and becomes a pupa, but do not imagine 
that this extraordinary creature does anything so ordi- 
nary as to retire into a cocoon or a puparium and keep 
quiet while undergoing its final metamorphosis. That 
would be expecting too much. 

Its larval stage lasts about a week in hot weather, ¡ª 
longer if the weather is cool, ¡ª and then it assumes the 
pupal form, which is but little less active than the larval 
form, though now it no longer eats, its mouth parts 
being sealed up, so to speak. 

But it breathes, coming to the surface of the water 

j^ as before, only now its breathing 

tubes are two in number and stand 
out from its thorax like a pair of 
little horns. 

It remains at the top of the 
water with the tips of its breathing 
tubes out, unless it is disturbed. 








when presto! it descends to the bottom as lively a 
wriggler as ever. 

Its pupal stage lasts but two or three days as a rule, 
when there emerges our well-known but not well-loved 
mosquito. 

The adult finds some snug comer before winter 
arrives and hibernates, coming forth at the first breath 
.of spring to lay its eggs. 

Sometimes these hibernating mosquitoes wake up 
during the few warm days that occasionally come in 
the winter time, and then they like to refresh themselves 
by biting us. 

Where there are long spells of dry weather the mos- 
quito does not die. Oh, no, it patiently waits for the 
rains to come and make pools and ponds in which it 
can lay its eggs. 

Yes, Charlie, there are a good many species of mos- 
quitoes in the world, and their transformations are not 
all just alike; the one we know best transforms as I 
have just told you. You can easily watch 
J it and see for yourself. 





Ned wants to know how the mosquitoes give us 
malaria. 

So you have heard about that, Ned. 

It would seem that certain species of mosquitoes are 
infested by the tiny malaria germs, and that these 
germs pass from the tube of the mosquito into the 
blood of the person bitten by this poisonous insect. 

It is now supposed that this is the principal, perhaps 
the only, way by which the malarial germ finds its way 
into human blood. 

No, little Nell, the mosquito does not sing by rubbing 
its wings together. Perhaps it does not sing on purpose. 
The humming sound we so hate to hear is caused by 
the rapid movement of its wings during flight. As 
soon as it comes to rest this sound ceases, as you well 
know. 

If it could come silently to its feast, we should not 
defeat its purpose so often. 

Warned by the tiny, shrill trumpet tones of the 
advancing one, we are often able to brush it away or 
even to kill it before it has had a chance to regale itself 
at our expense. 

Some flies, however, have a true voice and sing when 
we hold their wings immovable ; but how this is accom- 
plished we can learn better from the bee people, who 
have this power of song developed to a high degree. 






The Gnat and the Gall 

Yes, Ned, gnats are small flies, and some of them are 
as troublesome as mosquitoes, for they come silently, 
and the first intimation we have of their presence is the 
pain of their sharp little mouth ^ tube in our skin. 

There is one family of very 
tiny gnats with whose work 
we are better acquainted 
than with the gnat itself- 

Look at that willow 
over there. See how '^^^J 
many curious fruits it 
seems to be bearing. 

Yes, May, they look like M^ j 'M\ 
azalea buds, ¡ª the large buds \wl f^jjm 
the flowers come from. But ->fe.\(lLt>^i 
these are not flower buds. 
Once they were leaf buds, 
but a minute gnat laid its 
eggs on the young leaf bud M4\ 
and out hatched tiny maggots 

that ate into the bud and prevented its proper develop- 
ment. 

Instead of growing out into a healthy twig covered 
with leaves, the willow bud, when attacked by these 







larvie, thickens without lengthening, and finally becomes 
this queer stunted thing which we call a gall. 
If we were to open one of these galls early in 
the summer we should find the little maggot 
inside " as snug as a bug in a rug." 
It has a little room there in which 
it lives not only all summer but all 
winter, too, changing to a pupa early 
the next spring. 

When the willow buds are well formed 
and just ready to leaf out, the pupa in 
the gall bursts its bonds and out steps 
Madam Gnat, who loses no time in de- 
|X)siting her eggs on the young buds. 

You have all noticed the little swell- 
ings on pine twigs, but you may not 
know that these, too, are formed by the larvae of gnats. 
The larvae eat the bark of the pine twig, which causes 
the gummy sap to ooze out. This hardens, forming a 
covering about the larvae. In their little waterproof 
house they undergo their transformations. 

And there are the round golden-rod galls. They, too, 
are made by the maggot of a fly. 

The maggots that spoil our golden-rods have a happy 
time doing it. Think of living in a house whose walls 
were a golden-rod stem. 






Within this golden-rod gall in a little cell just 
large enough to hold it the little larva passes its 
days, to come forth at last a pretty fly, with no 
care but to seek other golden-rods upon 
which to lay its eggs. 

No, indeed, John, the flies are not re- 
sponsible for all kinds of galls, as you will 
discover in time. Indeed, the golden-rod has 
another gall on its stem that is made by the 
larva of a moth. It is oblong instead of 
round, and when you break it, it is hollow. 

The Hessian Fly 

Some of the great larvaB are very destruc- 
tive to grains and to clover, as they feed on 
the young seeds. 

The Hessian fly is one of the most formi- 
dable enemies to wheat that we have in this country, 
and it has destroyed many millions of dollars' worth of 
grain. It attacks rye and barley as well as wheat. 

It is a tiny fly, but its deeds are great. It lays its 
eggs on the wheat leaf, and the larvae crawl down to 
the stalk just where the leaf grows from it and there 
they feed on the juices of the plant to such an extent 
as to destroy the life of the grain. 




no 




The Hessian fly is not native to this country, or, as 
we say, it is not indigenous. It is supposed to have 
been brought to this country in the grain which the 
Hessian troops fed their horses in the War of the 
Revolution. 







Parasites 

There are a great many species of flies in the world, 
and a great many more in this country than we could 
make the acquaintance of in an ordinary lifetime ; but 
though we cannot know everything about all of them, 
we are glad to know something about a few of them. 

Quite a number of flies lay their eggs on other 
insects or in their nests, and the fly larvaB thus devour 
the other insects or their larvaB. These parasites are bene- 
ficial when the larvae they attack are harmful to us. 

Ned wants to know just what " parasite '* means. 

Well, Ned, long ago those people who did not work 
for themselves but who ate at the tables of the rich and 
earned their welcome by flattery were called 
parasites. 

The word came to be applied a] 
animals that live in or on other 
animals and at their expense. 
It is also used of plants that^ 
suck out the juices of other 
plants instead of getting their 
food from the earth. 

The mistletoe is a parasite. 
It grows on the limbs of trees 
and sends its roots through the 




into the sap and so lives without taking any trouble. 
When a fly lays its eggs on the larva of a beetle and 
the fly larva feeds on the larva of the beetle, then we 
very justly call the fly larva a parasite. 

Yes, May, lice are parasites, and so are bird lice and 
fleas and bedbugs. 

Some insects are parasitic in the larval form and not 
in the adult form, as is the case with certain flies. 
Some are parasitic in the adult and not in the larval 
form, as the fleas that do not suck blood until they are 
full grown. Some, like the lice, are parasitic in both 
larval and adult form. 

When insects are parasites in the adult form they are 
nearly always ^'degraded," as we say; that is, they 
have lost certain organs that their kind usually have. 
The bedbug is a degraded form, ¡ª it has lost its wings, 
¡ª and the lice are yet more degraded, having lost all 
the higher characteristics of the Bug Order to which 
they belong. They cannot fly and they cannot see well ; 
they are not much better than living machines for 
sucking blood. 

No, indeed, John, an animal is not a parasite because 
it eats other animals. 

Our swift dragon flies that hunt and capture insects 
are not parasites. Only those insects that live in another 
animal or on it and feed upon it are called parasites. 




The Robber Fly 

Yes, Mollie, that fellow is a fly. 
You thought so because you have been 
watching it a long time and found it had 
but two wings. It is easily alarmed, so if we wish to 
see it we must be very quiet. 

It has a long abdomen, which is unusual in flies. 
It is the robber fly ¡ª and there ! ¡ª now you ^ 
know why. ¡ª -^-^T 

Did you see it pounce upon that large 
green fly and grab it ferociously ? Now 
it is sitting on that twig eating its prey. 
These robber flies well deserve their name. 

J They are strong and fierce and some of 

^/ them are even able to capture and consume 

J that other notable robber, the dragon fly. 

The larvaB of these highwajnnen, so far as 

\ is known, live in the ground and prey upon 

the larvae of beetles. 










Beelike Flies 

Mollie looks deKghted. 
She says she has found a fly that 
mimics a bee. 

She thought it was a bee for a long 
time, but something in its behavior as 
it hovered over the flowers aroused her suspicions, and 
upon looking yet more carefully she discovered it had 
but two wings! 

Yes, Mollie, that is a trick some flies 
play upon the rest of the world.. They 
look like bees. Some of them are clothed in 
beelike hairs, some mimic the big bumble- 
bee with his yellow jacket, and some mimic wasps and 
hornets. 

Some of these masqueraderS go boldly into the nests 
of the bees and lay their eggs on the larvaB there ; others 
parasitize the eggs of moths, grasshoppers, or other 
insects. Most of them like to hover about the flowers 
and drink the nectar. 

They dart about so quickly that it is not easy to 
catch them, and most people would think twice before 
taking hold of one, as only those who are careful 
observers know that these gay deceivers are not bees 
at all but just harmless flies. 





The Botfly 

The larvae of the flies are often beneficial to us from 
their habit of parasitizing other insects, some destroying 
plant lice, some ants, and some even clearing our gar- 
dens of snails ; but there is one fly whose larvaB have the 
most outrageous habits of any known insect. This is 
the botfly. 

There are several species of it, and one that closely 
resembles a honeybee lays its eggs on the legs of 
horses. 

The horses are afraid of it, as in some way they know 
it is an enemy. 

When the eggs are laid, the horse, > 
annoyed by them, licks them off and 
swallows them. 

This is what the botfly wants. 
When the eggs hatch the larvae fasten 
themselves to the coat of the horse's 
stomach until they are ready to become pupae, when 
they pass from the horse in the dung and crawl into 
some safe place to transform. 

They do not. make a cocoon, but remain in the pupal 
skin, which under such circumstances, you remember, is 
called a puparium. They do not need a cocoon and 
they have no silk with which to make one. 








There is another botfly that 
troubles cattle and is often called 
the ox warble. 

It lays its eggs on the legs or 
backs of cattle, when as before the animal licks them 
off. These larvaB do not want to get to the stomach, 
but burrow through the walls of the oesophagus and 
wander about through the animal's tissues for several 
months, finally taking up their abode on its back just 
under the skin. Here the larva becomes spiny, and 
boring a hole through the skin, remains with its breath- 
ing pores close to the orifice. When ready to become 
a pupa it bores its way out and drops to the ground, 

where it transforms within a puparium. 
The sheep botfly is another member of 

this disreputable family. It lays its eggs in 

the nostrils of sheep, and the larvae creep 

up into the head and horns. 

When full grown they come down again 

and fall to the ground, where they transform. 




The Bluebottle and Apple Flies 

The bluebottle fly that buzzes about so crazily when 
it gets caught in a room is the rascal ¡ª or one of the 
best known of the rascals ¡ª that lay their eggs on our 




meat and spoil it. It is a handsome little nuisance with 
its polished blue % ^^ body and its red 
eyes, but Madam x^^Hj^ Bluebottle, your 
deeds are not as fair ^Mj|^U2^ as your looks. 

The larva of the z' ^ Codlin moth is not 
the only apple eater we have. 

There is a fly whose larva bores tunnels all through 
the pulp of the apple. 

Salt-Water Flies 

Among the queerest of the fly folk are the salt- 
water flies. 

The larvaB of these live in the salt lakes of the West, 
and even in alkaline water in which nothing else 
can live. 

In eastern California is the very strange Lake Mono, 
whose water is nauseous to the taste and slippery to the 
touch. But this is the breeding place of such enormous 
numbers of certain salt-water flies that the larvae can 
be collected by bushels from the shores where they 
have drifted. There in olden time went the Indians, 
who collected these larvae, dried them in the sun, rubbed 
off the outer skin of the puparium, and used the rest 
for food. 


Fruit Flies 

We are all acquainted with the little fruit flies, 
those tiny things that swarm over ripe fruit late in the 
summer. We cannot leave a dish of grapes standing on 
the table but that these little thieves will find it. 

They eat the fruit, and they also lay their eggs on it. 

The larvae are also fond of canned fruit and even of 
pickles. They seem to enjoy life in a bath of brine or 
of vinegar, and unless we seal our cans perfectly they 
will be very apt to spoil the contents for us. 

So-called Ticks 

There are also parasitic flies that look like lice and 
that live on birds and other animals. These are called 
ticks, but they are not real ticks. The real ticks are not 
insects in the proper sense of the word. Our troublesome 
wood ticks are closely related to the spiders, and they, 
you know, are not insects. No, indeed, spiders are not true 
insects ; they have eight legs instead of six, and the adult 
has the head and thorax soldered together in one piece 
instead of being separate; there are also other differences. 

Yes, Charlie, the daddy longlegs, or grandfather gray- 
beard, as it is also called, has eight legs, and it is not an 
insect. 





Early Comers 

The fly folk are perhaps the earliest of all to appear 
in the spring. Which do you think would come first, a 
mosquito or a Monarch butterfly ? 

Ah, yes, John, you have thought about it. The mos- 
quito can find food at once. We often see mosquitoes 
and gnats around the early-blossoming willow flowers ; 
but the Monarch butterfly must wait until the milkweeds 
are up in order to lay its eggs on the leaves. 

Insects appear when the plant they feed upon or lay 
their eggs upon is ready for them. 




THE FLEA FOLK 

The prize jumpers are certainly the fleas. 
Grasshoppers and crickets do very well, 
but for real get-over-the-ground high jumping 
you must go to the flea. 

Oh, yes, it is a parasite and a troublesome 

one, yet we do not loathe it as we do other 

Fieamagnitied parasitcs that trouble us. It is such a hard, 

shiny little rascal, and it is so ridiculous in its frantic 

efforts to get away from us. 

It has paid the penalty of living on other animals 
and has lost almost everything but its jump. 

Its wings have gone, and its eyes are merely two 
ocelli. Its antennaB are small and short, but no doubt it 
can smell very well with them. 

From long slipping about between the hairs of animals 
the fleas have become modified, ¡ª an aid in that pleas- 
ing occupation. Their bodies are flat sideways, and they 
are shaped somewhat like flaxseeds standing on edge. 

They have strong, sharp mouth tubes, and their order 
has been named the Siphonaptera, from siphon^ a tube, 
and apteros, wingless. 





No, indeed, John ; they could not be named from their 
wings because they have none, so they are named from 
their lack of wings. 

You see, in the other orders we know, some of the 
members had wings ; not so the Flea Order. 

That ancient and honorable order is entirely wingless. 

The fleas are distinguished the world over by their 
lively manners. For their size they can outjump any 
other living thing, and this they accomplish by their 
very large and strong hind legs. 

Our domestic fleas lay their eggs on 
the hairs of dogs and cats, and these 
eggs, not being fastened in any way,-^ 
fall to the floor or the ground, where 
they hatch into little wormlike larvae Fiea magnified 

that feed on the decaying matter they find in the dust. 

In a week or two these larvae spin delicate cocoons 
and retire from the trials of life for a time. But they 
are not long inactive ; in three or four days they come 
out of their cocoons and find themselves possessed of all 
the powers of champion leapers. 

Cat and dog fleas readily turn their attention to us, 
though the owners of pet animals usually try to think 
they do not. 

A great many wild animals, including birds, are the 
unwilling victims of different species of fleas, and in 








some countries they are such a nuisance as to make 
living in those otherwise delightful places almost 
unbearable. 








The Ladybird 

Ladybird, ladybird, fly away home ; 

Your house is on fire and your children will burn. 

Thus sings little Nell to the ladybird, often also called 
ladybug, on her finger. And see ! it has flown away* ^:¡êj 

The ladybng is not a bug. '' "* "* 

May says you might know that from its name, 
because almost everything that is called a bug 
is n't a bug. 

Anyway, the ladybug is not a l3ng; it is a 
beetle, which is another matter entirely. 

Did you watch it spread its wings? 

Yes, Ned; they are four in number, and* 
like some other wings we know of, the upper pair are 
not used for flying. 

True, Charlie ; it is the upper wings of the grass- 
hoppers and of all the other Orthoptera that are modified 







to serve as wing covers, and it is so with the' pretty 
beetle folk. 

The upper wings are hard and small ; sometimes they 
are not large enough to cover the abdomen. They do not 
overlap on top like the wing covers of the Orthoptera, 
but they meet together in a straight line down the back. 

They are called elytra ; they used to be called shards, 
¡ª a word still used in poetry. Under the elytra he 
the inner wings, which are thin and large. These are 
sometimes a great deal longer than the elytra. 




The May Beetle 

Here is a May beetle whose wings 
we can spread out. 

Yes, Nellie ; the elytra are not 

used in flying. The beetle 

raises them up out of the 

way so that the inner 

wings will have ^ , 



room for their movements. "^ 
Now I am sure you wonder how 

these long wings can be tucked ^ 

away under the short elytra. 
Let us look at our friend May 

beetle again. We will slowly open 

one wing. There! now you see. 









The under wing has a sort of joint about halfway down 
so that it can be doubled in two. When thus doubled it 
can be easily folded down under the wing cover. 

_^ The May beetle sometimes has a deal of 

trouble tucking these under wings into 

place, and the ends of them stick out in 

a funny way after the elytra have been 

shut down. 

The inner wings of soi?ie of the 
?^beetles are very large, and they are 
^ "y folded and crumpled up in various ways to 
make them fit under the elytra. 

Here is one, a near relative to the 
May beetle, that saves itself .¡ª 
the trouble of opening its 
elytra when it flies. 

The elytra do not fit down tightly 
over the sides, so the clever little beetle just slips its 
wings out from under the closed elj^tra, and slips them 
back under when it is done using them. 

The Beetle Order is named from the elytra. The 
beetles are the sheath wings or Coleoptera, from coleos, 
a sheath, and pteron, a wing. 

You will not find the beetle folk sucking up their 
food, for their mouth parts are not modified into tubes. 
They have jaws with which they seize their prey. 





' 


I The larvse o¡ê the beetles are six-footed as a rule and 
^/Mk}'-t7r^T-=~-^^\ ^ a^e called grubs. 
-^^^^^^I ^M^lXk ^^ Y^"' ^^^^^^5 we often dig 
" ^ up big white ones when work- 

ing in the garden, and we find 
them in rotten wood and under 
i^^^^^;^:^^ ' J^ boards and stones. 
l^ S^"j The metamorphosis of the 

^^^^-Vl / beetles is complete. They 
;J L change from larvaa into motion- 
less pupae that are in some cases 
very funny little dolls indeed. 

The Number of Insects on Earth 

There are a great many beetles in the world, and we 
have more than eleven thousand species in oiu: country. 

It is difficult to say, John, which order of insects is 
the largest. 

You must remember that not all the insects in the 
world are yet known; there are thousands of species 
still unnamed, but the Beetle Order is a very large one, 
and so is the Diptera or Fly Order. Yes, May ; so is the 
Hemiptera or Bug Order, and the Lepidoptera or Butter- 
fly and Moth Order. 

The insects far outnumber all the rest of the animals 
in the world put together. 









And there 
are good reasons 
for this. The small 
size of the insects is in 
their favor, as is also 
their power of 
flight. 

John asks how 
their power to fly 
c:an help them. 
Being able to fly 
they can more easily escape 
their enemies, and they can also change their environment. 
What is their environment, Mabel wants to know. 
The environment of a creature is that which sur- 
rounds and influences it. 

We say it is suited to its environment when the 
temperature and moisture and food supply suit it and 
when there is freedom from enemies. 

A creature that is not suited to its environment can- 
not prosper and often cannot live. An aphis that 




happens to be bom in a fertile region in a warm dry 
season finds itself in a good environment unless a man 
comes along and deluges it with kerosene emulsion, 
when its environment is no longer good. 

Yes, we speak of environment with respect to people, 
and we do not consider a city slum a good environment 
for a child to grow up in. A clean, bright home with 
good influences is a fortunate environment for any 
child. 

When an insect finds its environment bad for it, 
when, for instance, the food supply fails, it can spread 
its wings and fly away to pastures new. 

The Ladybird again 

But how far we have wandered away from little 
Nell's ladybug ! Hers was red with black spots on it, 
but there are a good many species of these little friends 
of ours, and some are black or yellow with white or red 
or yellow spots. All of them have the power to give off 
a bad odor if we happen to disturb them. 

But we can easily excuse them for this when we 
remember what good friends they are on the whole. 
What do you suppose the larvaB of the ladybug live on ? 

As a rule they are predaceous, that is, they eat living 
creatures, and many of them revel in feasts of plant lice. 




Some destroy scale bugs and are exceedingly valuable 
to fruit growers. Do you know that < 
fomia is the proud possessor of a lady- 
bug purposely imported from \V 
Australia to destroy certain de- \^ 
structive scale insects, and it is \/ doing it tool 

The hop growers have a ladybug f / that they call 
'' nigger " because it is black, and they prize it above 
everything because it destroys the hop louse. 

The adults as well as the larvaB are predaceous, and 
we have reason enough for our kindly feelings towards 
the pretty ladybugs. 

When the ladybug larva is ready to become a pupa it 
attaches itself to something by its 
tail end, the larval skin splits down 
the back and discloses an odd- 
looking little pupa, though sometimes it stays within 
the larval skin to transform. 









The Tiger Beetle 

What beauty is this that 
crosses our path? 
See it shine ! A most brilliant 
green you are, lovely one, like 
y^J^/^^^i^ a livmg jewel. 

"No, no. Master John; you 
cannot catch me," he seems to say as he flits off just 
out of reach, and now he is waiting in the path again. 
But see, his head is turned this way. The tiger beetle 
does not mean to be taken by surprise. 

Yes, it is a tiger beetle; and you can always know it 
by its very quick motions and its sudden flight. It flies 
much better than the rest of the beetle folk, and it is a 
champion runner. 

Why is it called a tiger beetle ? If you knew it better, 
MoUie, you would not need to ask. You have not seen 
it pounce upon other insedis, for both 
the brilliant adult and the homely larva 
are fierce hunters. Moreover, the adults 
are often spotted and striped in quite 
a tigerish fashion. 

The larvaB live in burrows in the 
earth. Watch the little holes in the 
footpaths and see if you do not some 







day find a pair of tiny pincers at the opening 
of one. These pincers will very likely turn 
out to be the jaws of a tiger-beetle larva. 
There the little rascal waits, jaws wide open, 
all ready to close over any unfortunate 
insect that sets foot on this pitfall. 

No, these fellows are not as clever as the 
ant-lion larvaa; they do not build a funnel ' 

for the unwary to tumble into. 

The tiger-beetle larvaB are modified to live in their 
holes. They have a hump on the back and two stout 
hooks on the hump to hold them fast in case there comes 
a tug of war between themand some unwilling captive. 
Now see ! Mollie is the wise one to-day. She has 
been looking carefully at the path as we walked along 
and she thinks she has found the larva of a tiger beetle. 
Where is John with his trowel? But before we try 
to dig him out let us run a straw into the burrow so we 
won't lose the direction. 
Dig carefully, John. 
There, he has found it, and oh, how 
indignant it is! See, it has hold of 
the end of the straw ! It is biting it 
for all it is worth. 

There now, little larva, you need not 
get into such a temper. Nobody is going to hurt you. 












The Ground Beetle 

See that ground beetle ! It will soon 
make a meal of the caterpillar. 

Yes, the ground beetles generally live 

, on the ground under stones and sticks 

y and come prowling out after prey.- A 

.y good many of them prefer to come out 

at night. 

The larvaa live under stones, too, and 
^ / if we search we may find one. Yes, this 
]j / is one ; it is black, you see. 
But not all the larvae of the 
l^'iji- gi'o^iid beetles are black, 
^-^'-^ though they are all shaped a 
good deal like this one. See its little jaws ! 
/ Ravenous one, we know what you 
/ do with those jaws. 
\?( Many of the ground beetles are black in color 
'^^'i3 V^^ ^^^ y^^ often see them running when you 
lift up stones. 

But here is one that is not black. It is 

the Searcher, with its brilliant green wings. 

Ah, yes, you can guess why it is called 

the Searcher. These fellows that live in 

the grass and imder stones do not fly. They run when 







they have business on hand. Because they have not 
used their wings for so long a time, what do you think 
has happened? 

John guesses their wings may have disappeared. 

And so they have in many species. The wing covers 
are there, but if you were to lift them up you would 
find the inner wings mere rudiments. 

Because they would not fly when they could they 
cannot now fly at all; they must spend their lives in 
running about. 

Yes, indeed. May; it is so with all living things. If 
an organ is not used at all if becomes useless. If you 
were to tie up one of your arms, after a while it would 
get so weak you could not use it. The more an organ 
is rightly used the stronger it grows. If we look with 
our eyes and try to remember what we see, our eyes 
learn to see better and our minds to remember better. 

The only way to keep and to improve our powers is 
to use them. 

The ground beetles have lost their wings, but they 
have very fine strong legs because they have used them 
so much. 

You know how many beetles have the power to give 
off a bad odor. Well, our ground beetles are no excep- 
tion, and the little Bombardier, with its yellowish thorax 
and legs and its black or blue wing covers, is the chief 






performer in this respect. It gets its name from its 
habit of squirting an offensive fluid upon any one who 
disturbs it. This fluid, when coming in contact with 
the air, quickly vaporizes and looks like smoke. 

. This queer little gun is used 

j^ / '^'f / ^iisparingly upon any insect that 




-w>^^ 



presumes to attack the well-armed brigadier who thus 
bombards the enemy. 

Yes, Mollie; I am sure you have often seen these 
queer fellows. \ 

¡ö ' ? J/ 




;>#-^-^/. 

.M^^'' 




The Water Beetle 

Not all the insects that dart about our ponds belong 
to the Bug Order. 

There are water beetles as well as water bugs. 







You can tell which are beetles and which are bugs by 
their mouth parts. The bugs, you know, suck up their 
food through a mouth tube, which they readily thrust 
into your finger tip if you give them the chance. The 
beetles have only jaws 'with which to nip inquisitive 
fingers. 

The predaceous diving beetles or Water Tigers are 
very common in still water, and Ned has a plan for our 
afternoon. 

We are to go with him to a pond not far off, where 
there are a great many of those fellows. 

Now here we are and here they are. See the polished 
dark brown beetles that are floating head downward 
near the surface of the water, 
a.s though from this po^^itiou 
ol" adviiiitage to keep an eye on 
'their neighbors down below and 
welcome any straggler into 
evei^ready stomach^s. 




The diving beetles have well-developed wings, and 
they fly from pond to pond in search of food. 

Yes, John; they change their environment to suit 
their needs. 

These corsairs are pleasanter to watch than to handle, 
for like so many of the beetle folk they protect them- 
selves by bad odors. 

If you touch one it gives off a disgusting milky fluid 
from the thorax just back of the head ; and not satisfied 
with this it will also pop at you a suffocating yellow 
liquid from two glands near the end of its tail. 

Why, yes, Charlie ; you can try it if you want to ; take 
the net and catch one. There, now you are satisfied. 
Yes, it is a horrible smelling little wretch when it 
wishes to be. 

Little Nell wants to know what those tiny black 
~^ _ things are that go darting about every- 



^Qi>_^^^^^TZ^'~~ where like comets in the water. 
: ¡ª ^^l'^i;S^ ,^^^ Mabel says they are the W 
-^[^^ pi^^ ¡ª .'' Yes, that is one name for them 



¡ª ? How shiny they are ! and how absurd 
in their gyrations ! 

They, too, are diving beetles, and when they go to 
the bottom they take a bubble of air. 

If we could put one under the magnifying glass we 
sliould see what strange legs it has. 








But here is a picture that will show us. 

The hind ones are greatly modified for 

swimming ; they are large and broad when 

we stretch them out. The joints are flat, 

the tarsal joints particularly 

being shaped almost like the j^^^ 

fins of a fish. This is why^^j 

^ they can flash about so quickly. -^ 

They are no pleasanter to handle than ^ 

the Water Tigers, for as soon as you touch ^ 

them they give out an ill-smelling milky z:r 

fluid from nearly every joint in their bodies. ^ 

The Whirligig lays its eggs on water plants, and the 
little larvae are predaceous. The adult Whirligigs can 
fly, and they can also squeak by rubbing the under side 
of the wing covers against the body. 

The diving beetles, or Water Tigers, 
are also able to squeak. 

The Great Water Beetles 

There are quite a number of aquatic 
beetles besides these we have been 
watching, and one of the most inter- 
esting is the large, black water scaven- 
ger, or great water beetle, that makes a 
silken cocoon in which to lay its eggs. 







It spins this cocoon from a spinneret at the tail end, 
much as a spider spins its web. It also has a sharp spine 
on its breast that pierces fingers that handle it carelessly. 

The full-grown larvae of these big fellows are black 
in color, and, of course, they are aquatic. 

Yes, Mabel ; aquatic means living in water. The 
creatures that live all the time in the water are aquatic. 

Yes, indeed, fish are aquatic. What larvae besides 
those of the beetles can you think of that are aquatic ? 

Yes, the dragon fly and May fly larvae, and the caddice 
larvae, and mosquito larvae, oh, there is a long list of them. 
But remember that aquatic animals must all breathe air. 



The Burying Beetles 







See what little Nell has found ! 

No, no, don't touch it, dear. 
The poor httle bird is 
dead, and now, see ! the 
/ \ , beetles are at work 
^J]^ burying it. 
^ Yes, May ; that is what 
1|T[I__ they are doing. You have often 
seen those queer-looking red 
spotted beetles about dead ani- 
mals, but you did not know what they were doing? 





Well, that is what they are doing, burying the little 
animals that die in the woods or the fields. 

They are called the burying beetles, or the sexton 
beetles. 

Y^s, indeed, John ; they will really and truly bury the 
little bird. You watch and see if they don't. 

Yes, Charlie ; they dig under the bird ; you can see 
one all gone but its tail. Their front legs are modified 
for digging ; see how broad and thick they are. 

Why, yes, John ; catch one if you want to, but let me 
:wam you that these Gravediggers do not smell like 
violets or roses. 

Ah, yes, one can now get a good look at you, old fel- 
low. See how short its wing covers are ; they -^^ 
do not nearly cover its abdomen. 

And what queer clublike antennae it has. ^_¡êE 

Poor fellow, he is so anxious to get back to _^ 
his grave digging, suppose we let him go. 

Indeed, Mabel, these are thorough little 
grave makers. 

They burrow under the animal until they 
have made an excavation into which it settles, and they 
keep on digging away until the hole is deep enough to 
receive it. Even then they do not stop, but actually 
sink it two or three inches below the surface of the 
ground. 






Then what do you think ? Those tireless little work- 
ers throw the dirt back into the hole until the animal is 
well covered. 

Why do they do this? Well, John, for the usual 
reason that these insects take an interest in decaying 
matter. Now can you guess ? 

That is right, my boy ; they want the bird as food for 
their larvaB.. When it is buried the female beetles dig 
down to it and deposit their eggs on it. 

The larvae are hard, flat, black things that smell 
¡ª my, how they do smell ! 

Why, yes, indeed, John ; you can mark the place 
where the little bird lies, and after a few days you 
can dig it up. 

See May hold her nose, but you know you don't 
have to come. May. 
Oh, you want to come ! Well, I thought so. 
These Gravediggers are interesting in spite of their 
bad odor, and they are wise little people too. 

If they find a dead animal small enough for them to 
handle, they are bound to have it, and if it is lying on 
ground too hard to dig into, these clever little people 
roll it to a softer spot. Sometimes they will move an 
animal several feet to a suitable burial place. 

It will take them about twenty-four hours to bury 
this little bird, but they will work much longer than that 




if necessary. Even if you were to fasten the bird with 
sticks or tie it with strings to the top of the ground, 
they would manage to get it loose and bury it. 

The Rove Beetle ^ 

Now this is a rove beetle. 

It is also anxious to have a share in the body of 
the bird, but it will not help to bury it. 

Yes, Ned ; its wings are ridiculous, they are so 
short, like a little jacket over the upper part of its 
abdomen. But let me tell you, the rove beetle can 
fly in spite of appearances. 

Its wings are long if its wing covers are short, and 
when it wishes to fly it spreads a pair of wings as long 
as its body, or even longer. 

The rove beetle sometimes has trouble in getting these 
long wings tucked away under the short elytra, and if 
you watch you may see it using its legs or the end of its 
abdomen to push them under. 

These beetles are usually quite small insects, though 
some species are large, as this one we have found. If 
you touch it, you will be treated to an odor that out- 
ranks even that of the Gravedigger, and often they 
raise up the tip of the abdomen as if they meant to 
sting. But they have no sting, ¡ª only the horrid scent 





glands, which are .almost as bad as a sting. Some of 
them are colored like a bumblebee, and dressed in bee- 
like hairs, with a form, too, like that of a bee. 

I think you are right, May ; when such a beetle raises 
the tip of the abdomen most creatures would think it 
was a. bee getting ready to sting, and thus we have a 
case of protective mimicry. 

The Carpet Beetle 

Poor Mollie ! So your are tired out helping your mother 
hunt for buffalo moths. 

You know how they look, then. Yes, and you know 
they are not moths at all ; you think they are some sort 
of larva. 

Grood, Mollie ! Your interest in insects is making 
you observe carefully and think well. 

You are right about the buffalo moth. It is not a 
moth at all, nor is it a bug. The tiny fat grub cov- 
ered with brown hairs is the larva of a beetle. The 
carpet beetle it is called. 

It is a nuisance where it finds its way into houses, 
the larva eating carpets, clothes, furs, and feathers. It 
is more troublesome even than the clothes moth. 

The adult carpet beetle is a pretty little black, white, 
and red thing that looks like a small ladybug. It feeds 
on pollen, but comes into the house to lay its eggs. 







The Click Beetle 

Ah, Charlie ! So you have caught a click 
beetle. 

The children often call it snapping bug 
and skipjack. 

Is he not a beauty with his dark gray 
wings and the two velvety spots on his thorax '^'^ 

What is that, Little Nell? You used to 
think those were his eyes, but now you know 
better? 

Yes, indeed ; none of us would mistake those spots for 
his eyes now. His little eyes are in front of his head, 
just back of the antennaB. 

The click beetle lays its eggs on the ground or on the 
bark of trees, and the larvaB of some species do a good 
deal of damage to the roots of grains 
other plants. 

You will be surprised 

w \'-x vv^i^y^yo^^ A>wc?vi4. y.wicx-y ^q know that the larva 

of the click beetle is the 
^long, hard, slender wire- 
worm we often dig up in 
the garden or see under the bark of decaying trees. You 
would not guess that this queer object was the larva of 
a beetle. 





Yes, John ; it is generally yellowish brown in color. 
It does a great deal of mischief in some places ; but the 
adult is harmless enough, and we are all well acquainted 
with it. 

Yes, indeed, MoUie ; we have all put the click beetles 
on their backs to see them spring into the air. As they 
spring they turn over and come down on their feet, or 
at least try to, for they don't always succeed. 

What is that, Nell ? If at first they don't succeed, 
they try, try again ? ^^ 

So they do, Nell; so 
they do. 

Now turn this fellow 
over and you wiU see how he 
turns his somersault. The thorax is provided with a 
spine that fits in a groove on the abdomen. 

When you turn the beetle on his back he bends him- 
self upwards, resting on his head 
and the tip of his abdomen. 
Then suddenly he straightens 
out; the spine strikes against the groove in the abdo- 
men and acts as a spring to toss him into the air. 

Yes, indeed; he will work this spring while we hold 
him, so that it is quite difficult to prevent his smooth 
body from snapping out from between our fingers. 
What a surprise we get the first time we touch one ! 







The scientific name of these fellows is el'a-ter, and 
elater comes from the same Greek word that " elastic " 
comes from. 

Yes, when we catch them they tuck their antennae 
close down against the under side of the thorax, so that 
they look as though they had none. 

I have no doubt you are right, Ned ; they do so to 
protect those delicate threads from being broken. 

Yes, little Nell ; they ^^play possum" when we take 
hold of them. They lie as though dead. 

We have a good many elaters in this country. Some 
of them are quite small and have no eye-spots on the 
thorax. 

There are elaters in Central and South America, also 
in Mexico and the West Indies, that shine in the dark. 

Here is a picture of one of them. 

The two spots on the thorax emit a bright 
light, as does also the end of the abdomen. 

Yes, John ; they are like our fireflies only they 
shine very much brighter. 

Some of the large ones make a light bright 
enough to read by, and the people use them 
when traveling at night. They are put to a pretty use 
by the ladies of the countries where they are found. 
The cucuyos, as they are called, are caught and kept 
in little cages of fine wire and fed on sugar cane. 





Now when milady is ready to go to a party she 
takes her little cucuyos, puts them in gauze bags, and 
fastens them in her hair or on her dress, where they 
shine, ¡ª Uving jewels to enhance her beauty. When she 
comes home again she carefully gives her 
Il\ shming little friends a bath to refresh them. 
'\^ They have to be bathed twice a day and 
f' carefully fed and cared for or they will 
f^^ die and their shining light go out. 
^^ Yes, they light up the dark 
woods at night like so many 
little lamps. It is said that 
travelers who have to be out 
at night fasten cucuyos to 
their boots, and when they 
are through using them they 
carefully return them to the 
bushes. 
Yes, May; it is a pity the larvaB 
re so destructive, as the elaters are 
such pretty and interesting little creatures. 









The Buprestids 

No, my boy, that is not an elater. 
It looks like one, but it has no spine 
to jump with, and it is much handsomer 
in color than the black or gray elaters. 
See, it shines like some bright metal, 
and it is of a bronze color. You 
always know these fellows by their color. 

They are the buprestids, and their larvse 
wood borers. 

They are queer larvaB that have no legs 
that seem to have a very big head. But tht 
head is really tiny, and it is the segments back 
of it that are enlarged. It is a mischievous 
little creature, for it bores under the bark 
of trees and into the solid wood. Some 
injure apple trees in this way, and some 
prefer forest trees. 








The Firefly 




Ah, yes, Mollie ! that little loose-winged thing 
is a firefly. 

It is not a fly, of course ; it is a beetle, but 
its elytra are quite soft, not like the usual hard 
wing covers of the beetle folk. 
You cannot see it shine in the daytime, but if you 
turn it over, you will see the tail end of its abdomen 
turn white every few moments ; and if you take it into 
a dark room, the last segments of the abdomen will 
shine out as though they were burning instead of 
seeming white. 

You cannot see its light in the daytime, because the 
brilliant sunlight overpowers its feeble little ray. But 
at night, which is the time it flies, its little lamps are 
seen shining all through the woods in the summer time. 
Yes, the little light givers love to fly over damp 
meadows, and sometimes the air seems to be spangled 
with tiny stars, there are so many of these little insects 
flashing all at once. 

Once in a while we see a soft greenish light shining 
steadily from some spot on the ground. This is a form of 
firefly not very common in our country ; it is called the 
glowworm. It is only the female that shines. She has 
no wings and is grublike in form. 




Yes, John ; we sometimes see a shining spot moving 
over the ground at night ; this is a firefly larva walking 
about, for the larvaB of our fireflies have the power to 
shine. 

Why, John, no doubt they shine as a signal to each 
other. It is their way of saying to their friends, " Here 
I am," and a pretty way it is too. 

Yes, indeed, we do love to see the fireflies on a dark 
night. 

Their larvae are dark-colored little fellows that, as a 
rule, live in the earth and eat snails and soft-bodied 
insects. 

Yes, indeed, they are harmless, and we are all glad 
that the child of the pretty firefly is not our enemy. 

No, little Nell ; the firefly cannot biun your fingers. 

We do not know how it makes its wonderful light. 

There are many beetles that look like the fireflies 
but that give no light. You all remember the long, 
narrow, black and yellow fellows that swarm over the 
golden-rods in the fall. They are soft like the fireflies, 
and are nearly related to them. 








The Stag Beetle 

So here we have Mr. Stag Beetle ! 
He is so named because of his jaws that 
in some species of the stag beetles are enor- 
mous and branched like the antlers of a stag. 

Digging into this 
rotten stump brings 
us to the larva of 
our stag beetle. See, 
it is a fat, white grub 
that lives on decayed 
wood. When ready 
to transform it makes 
for itself a nice little cocoon of 
the chips it has gnawed off. 

There are a great many stag beetles in the world, 
and some of them are remarkable looking creatures. 




i^M.y.hr- 











The Lamellicorn Beetle 

Now here goes a tumblebiig- 

Well met, little ball roller. Where 
do you suppose it is off to, 
May ? And why do you sup- 
pose it is so solemnly rolling 
that ball along ? 

Ah, tumblebug, tumble- 
bug ! we know your ways and why you are working so 
hard this summer day. 

How fast it trundles along ! 

True, John ; it does seem absurd to stand upside down 
and push a ball along behind one. But that is the 
tumbleb^g's way. 

See ! see ! Little Madam Tumblebug has climbed to 
the top of her ball and thrust out her little turtle head 
as far as she can to look about her. 

Why do I say little Madam Tumble- 
bug ? How do I know it is not little Mr, 
Tumblebug? 

Mr. Tumblebug would not take the 
trouble to roll a ball all by him- 
self. Often you will see him .^^ 
helping, though. And when he ^ -^i! 
is once at it he works with a will. 









Ah, yes ; over there is a pair of them rolling the ball 
together. The larger of the two is the female. 

True, Mollie ; his lordship does n't seem to help much. 
Half the time he is in the way, and now ¡ª the ras- 
cal ! ¡ª he is actually riding on the 
ball and letting his partner roll 
him along! 

There! he has tumbled 
off head over heels, and 
the ball has trundled off 
without him. Serves you 
right, sir. 
But see ! he is up and after it, 
and now he is doing his share. 
He walks ahead and pulls. 

Yes, indeed, little Nell; 
he still walks on , ^ '^^ 
his head. 

That is the way 
of the tumblebugs 
when they have a ball to roll. 

Now they have crossed the road and ¡ª is it possible 
they are going to try to climb up that bank ? 

There goes the ball ! Poor little fellows ! But they 
are after it. See them run. Now they have found it 
and rolled it back to the bank. 








There ! that naughty little male is on top of the ball 
again, and is making his partner lift him as well. 

But see ! he is not naughty ; he is wise. He has 
caught hold of the bank with his hind feet, and now 
he is pulling with all his might, while she pushes. 

See ! he is now on the top 
of the bank with his feet 
securely hooked in some 
weeds. She is almost stand- 
ing on her head and bal- 
ancing the ball, on the tip of 
her abdomen. 

Dear me! it is going to 
roll back again. No ; he has 
a better hold with his left 
foot. See him pull, and see " ¡ª ^^^ ' 

her push ! There ! hurrah ! it is up, and they are roll- 
ing it along as quietly as though they had done nothing 
uncommon. I should think they would want to stop 
and shake hands. 

Well done, little tumblebugs. You knew what you 
were about; and you, little gentleman, were wiser 
than we. 

It is not fair to judge a tumblebug by human standards. 

Yes, John; we should try to put ourselves in the 
tumblebug's shoes before we judge it. 






Indeed, May, you are right. We should never judge 
anybody without first understanding the matter from 
the other person's point of view. 

But where have our tumblebugs gone ? 

Ah, yes ; they have rolled their ball under that pile of 
dead leaves. See, they are burying it. 

Now you can guess what all this ball rolling is 
about. 

That i^ so, Mollie ; the female wishes to lay her eggs 
in the ball, and when it is buried she will do so. 

Sometimes the ball is made of rich earth, but gener- 
ally it is made of cow dung or of horse manure. 

These black tumblebugs are nearly always to be 
found in cow pastures. 

They fly well, and go whizzing over the ground until 
they find what they want. 

John has caught a tumblebug for us to look at. Ah ! 
it has a good strong means of defense. But we are 
going to look at you, sir, in spite of the dreadful odor 
you give forth to prevent us. 

Right, May ; it is not a bug at all ; it is a beetle. 

It is a scavenger, clearing up the dirt of the pastures ; 
it is a lamellicom scavenger. 

There are numbers of lamellicom beetles, and the 
family gets its name lamellicom from the shape of the 
antennae. 




You see they are like clubs at the end, and the clubs 
are made of the last segments of the antennae, which 
are flattened and enlarged like plates. 

LamelUcorn comes from two Latin words meaning 
plate and horn, so they are plate horns, or plate 
antennae, and the beetles that bear such antennae are 
called lamellicorn beetles. 

Here is a picture of the antennae enlarged. 
Yes, indeed ; such antennae afford room for a great 
many sense organs, and the tumblebugs can smell 
exceedingly well. The adults eat decaying animal 
and vegetable matter, as do also the larvae. 

Why do you suppose the tumblebugs roll a 
ball of food material off by itself and biu-y it? 
Why do they not lay the eggs right in the manure ? 

They are wise little people. They know that many 
voracious larvae live in dung, and that these would 
devour their eggs or larvae; for other insects besides 
tumblebugs use maniu-e for food. So 
they cut out a ball from the general 
supply and roll it to a safe place. 
Here is one making 
ball. See, the ball is 
p^.r^ nearly separated from 
y j^i^^ VT^Ti ^ r" , the rest of the manure. 
"^ ' '-=^;^ ¡ª ^^ - Watch and see how it uses 







its little flat, sharp-edged head for a spade. Now its 
head is quite out of sight under the wall. See it pat 
the ball with its little hands. 

It digs and pats until the ball is quite firm and round 
before it tries to roll it. 

Here is a picture of the front foot enlarged. 

You see the tarsus is very small ; it is often turned 
under out of the way. 

The tibia is flat and broad. Yes, Charlie ; it is modi- 
fied to form a good tool for patting and digging. 

No, May ; not all the turablebugs are black. Some are 
very beautiful in color, and shine like polished metal. 

Yes, you have aU seen the shining green or bronze- 
colored tumblebugs, but they are not as common as 
these black fellows. 

No, Nell, we do not need to ask why they are called 
tumblebugs. It is enough to see them tumbling around 
on the ground. Very often their ball rolls away with 
them, and over and over they go, clinging to it as well 
as they can. 

Moreover, tumblebugs are great fighters. Sometimes 
one will come along and try to take the ball from 
another instead of making one for herself. When this 
happens there is trouble. The one attacked starts off with 
her ball ; the would-be robber grasps it and tries to roll 
it in another direction. Then comes a tug of war, or 





rather a tumble of war, in which one finally succeeds in 
rolling the ball away from the other. The other at once 
gives chase and the pulling and tumbling about begin 
all over again. Sometimes both leave the ball and grap- 
ple with each other. After wrestling awhile one con- 
quers the other and goes back to the ball, but the enemy 
was not really conquered and in a moment is racing 
after the receding ball. How the trouble is finally settled 
I have never been able to find out. 

The sacred scarab of Egypt is a_^^ 
tumblebug. 

It is larger and more ornamental 
than our tumblebugs, but it provides 
for its young in the same way. 

Here is a picture of the Egyptian -^~ 
scarab. 

It was held sacred by the ancient 
Egyptians because of its habit of roll- 
ing a ball of earth which to them was symbolical of the 
world. Connected with this beetle there were a great 
many superstitions which you may some time read about. 

It was carved in stone and in jewels and put in the 
tombs of the dead, and it is also seen carved on pillars 
and in temples. The Egyptian stone scarab is often 
seen in museums. It is flat on the under side, which is 
marked with hieroglyphics. 








Here is a picture showing the upper and the 
under sides of a scarab. 

There are other lamellicorn scavengers besides 
the tumblebugs in our pastures. 

One of them is a big black fellow with a horn 
on its thorax, but it does not roll a ball. It digs 
a deep tunnel under the manure and carries the 
manure down to a hollow place at the bottom 
of the tunnel. Here the eggs are laid. Probably it fills 
up the tunnel, but I cannot say 
certainly about that. 

Yes, John ; our May beetles, or 
June bugs, as they are also called, 
are lamellicorn beetles, but they 
are not scavengers. 

Their antennaB are like those of 
the tumblebugs, but their larvaB, 
which are rather large white 
grubs, live in the earth and eat the roots of grasses and 
other plants. They sometimes do a very great deal of 
damage. The adult May beetles eat foliage and often 
injure young trees. 

The goldsmith beetle is very much like the May beetle, 
only it is yellow, and the head and thorax shine as 
though they had been polished. They are blundering 
fellows like the May beetles and often come whizzing 








into the room at night, striking against the lamp, 
thumping on the wall, getting tangled in our hair^ and 
finally tumbling on their backs in the comer. 

Yes, little Nell; we hear their funny little feet scratch, 
scratch, scratching in their efforts to turn over'. And 
then what do we say ? " Oh ! never mind; it's nothing . 
but a clumsy old May beetle." 



The Long-Horned Beetles 




Z-^-^-ZrZ-^'OOO-Z-^rZ-OOO ! 

Who is this humming low as he flies over the lawn? 
Ah ! the big, black Prionus. 
Rascal, what are you doing there ? 








What, John, ¡ª it digs holes in the lawn? 
Yes, it lays its eggs on the roots of the 
trees into which the larvae bore. 

This is one of the Long-homed beetles. 
See how spiny is the thin edge of its 
thorax. 

Yes, MoUie ; its legs are strong and large, 

and it is a great digger and a strong runner. 

The larvae of the Long-homed beetles are 

soft, whitish grubs, but they have very hard 

and powerful little jaws. 

Most of the Long-horned beetles lay their 
eggs on the limbs or tmnks of trees and 
the larvaB bore into the solid wood, 
where they are very destructive. 
Here is one of the Long-homed 
beetles that often come flying 
into a lighted room at night. He 
is quite a beauty with his straight, 
tan-colored wings. Yes ; he has 
three little sharp spines like 
needle points on each side of the ^ 
thorax. 

Yes, May; some of the Long- 
homed beetles are very beauti- 
ful indeed. 






Ah, see ! May has one of these beauties for " ^^ 
us to look at. 

It is the beautiful maple borer, and gay it 
is, with its black dress marked with yellow. 
It is too bad that our beauty should lay its ^ 
eggs on the sugar maples that the larvaB may 
bore into the trees. 

Another beauty belonging to this family is 
the Cloaked Knotty-horn. 

Here is one that Mabel found the 
other day and kept to show us. 

Yes, little Nell ; it wears a yellow 

i^ cloak over its shining blue dress. The 

upper part. of the blue elytra, you see, 

is bright yellow. And no wonder it is 

called Knotty-horn ! 

Yes, Mabel; its antennae are 
composed of large, 
triangular segments, which is the 
case with the antennae in a number 
of the members of this family. 

Perhaps for the longest-horned of the Long-horns 
we should go to the sawyer. This beautiful gray 
and brown nuisance lays its eggs on pine and fir trees 
and the larvae bore into the solid wood, sometimes 
there being enough of them to kill the tree. 








The sawyers are funny little people and they wave 
their long antennae about in quite a captivating manner. 

A near relative to this sawyer is the round-headed 
apple-tree borer, ¡ª a pale brown beetle, smaller than the 




sawyer, and with two white stripes running down its 
back from head to tail. It is one of the worst enemies 
our apple trees have, as the larva lives nearly three years 
and spends its time boring through the wood of the tree. 
There are a great many Long-homed beetles. 







The Colorado Potato Beetle 

Charlie says he has had enough 
of beetles. 

He has had to help "bug" his ^^i^Vi 
father's potatoes. 

Fortunately the potato bug, or 
Colorado potato beetle, as it is bet- 
ter called, is not as abundant as 
it used to be ; but it is still all 
too common. 

Oh, yes ! we all know how \ 
the little nuisance looks, with V, 
its striped back. And we know 
how its disagreeable reddish- 
yellow grubs look. 

We have all seen them in the potato fields. 

Had you lived before the year 1859 you would not 
have been troubled by the potato beetle. 

It then lived near the foot of the Rocky Mountains, 
feeding on the sand spur, a plant belonging to the 
potato family. But when the white settlers began to 
plant potatoes in Colorado, their foliage tasted so much 
better than sand-spur leaves to the discriminating bee- 
tles that they left their sand spurs and swarmed over 
the potatoes. 






Gradually they found their way eastward from potato 
patch to potato patch, until in about fifteen years they 
had conquered the country to the Atlantic Ocean. 

They lay their eggs on the potato leaves, which are 
devoured by the voracious larvaB. Some of the bee- 
tles remain underground in the pupal state all winter, 
the adult beetles emerging in the summer at the right 
time to lay their eggs on the young potato plants. 

True enough, John ; the potato beetle prospered 
greatly by changing its environment. 

The sand spurs at the foot of the Rocky Mountains 
supported but a small colony of beetles compared to the 
hordes that now devastate the country. 

Yes, Nell ; potato leaves were better food than sand 
spurs, and no doubt the beetles enjoyed the milder climate 
of the East. Anyway they multiplied prodigiously, two 
or three broods appearing in one season. 



The Oil Beetle 

May, why do you look so mischievous, and 

what are you holding so carefully in that box ? 

Oh ! an insect, a beautiful blue insect. Be 

\ careful how we open the box or it will kill us. 

Dear me ! has it such a tremendous sting, 

then? 






No sting at all. 

Then how can it kill us ? 

Open the box and we shall see. 

Phew! WeU, weU! 

You have been teasing it, May, and it does smell bad 
enough to make us want to drop it and run away. 

It is a beetle, in spite of the fact that its elytra over- 
lap. How short the elytra are ! 

Yes, Nell ; they do look like an old-fashioned over- 
skirt such as you were looking at in an old magazine of 
your mother's this morning. 

This queer, dark blue little scent bottle gets its strong 
odor from a yellow liquid that oozes out of its joints 
when disturbed, and because of this yellow, oily liquid it 
is sometimes called the oil beetle. 

It is not a pleasant beetle by any means, and you 
may be sure the birds let it severely alone, although 
it is so soft and juicy. 

Now I will tell you something odd about it. It is a 
blister beetle. Blister plasters are very often made of 
beetles. These plasters blister the skin and are used 
in sickness. The plasters are often called Spanish-fly 
blisters, because they used to be made from Spanish 
beetles that were easily collected. 

The beetles are dried and powdered, and then mixed 
with an ointment and spread on cloth. 






^^-¡ª- 



Those who collect the beetles as well as those who 
powder them have to be very careful or they will get 
their hands blistered. ? 
Yes ; I think that if you handled May's 
blue beetle much it would probably 
blister your hands. 

These fellows are quite often found 
on buttercups. 

The larvae of the blister beetles have 
a curious way of getting their living. 
The eggs are sometimes laid in 
flowers and the larvae watch for 
the coming of a bee to which they 
can attach themselves. They suck 
j the blood of the bee and when it flies 
home they leave it and eat its honey and its larvae. 

Not all the blister beetles are shaped like our blue oil 
beetle, but they all have soft elytra. Here is a picture 
of three of them. 




The Weevils 

What is that, John? There is no use going chest- 
nutting this year, the nuts are so wormy? 

Then at least let us gain something from the 
worms. 

What do you think they are ? 








Ah, I see ; you believe they are the larvae of some- 
thing. Yes, the little fat, white grubs that eat the 
chestnuts before you get a chance to are larvae, and 
I think that most of them belong to the weevils. 

The weevils are great nut eaters and we find the 
grubs also in acorns. 

The weevils are the snout beetles, and for the most 
part they are little fellows. 

The head is prolonged in front into a long beak or 
snout, and at first you might mistake them for bugs. 
But the long, slender snout is not a tube. At the tip 
end of it are tiny jaws, which though so small are yet 
very hard and strong, enabling the beetle to bore through 
nut shells. 

It is rather a pretty little gray or brown nuisance and 
its antennae, as you see, are bent at a sharp angle and 
are fastened halfway down the snout. 







Some weevils are able to bore into the hard 
hickory nut and some injure grain and 
seeds. Some again eat fruit, and 
one is very destructive to the 
plum, sometimes quite destroy- 
ing the whole crop. The beetle 
lays her eggs in the 
^^^^ fruit and the larvae eat 
^^^^ it. The rascals we find 
wormy cherries are usually weevil 
grubs. 
The weevils have cunning little pads on their feet, 
and what do you suppose they use their 
long snouts for ? 

Yes ; they bore into nuts, fruits, and 
grain with them. 

They bore a hole with the snout, then 
they lay an egg in the hole and poke it 
down with the snout. 











Lady Bombus 

Now who comes droning over the flowers ? 

See! she has settled on a clover head 
and is burying her face in it. 

Everybody knows our friend Bumble- 
bee. And I think we all like her lady- 
ship and love to see her hovering 
about the flowers and digging her 
shining black face down into them. 

Yes, John ; she is after the 
honey. She is a fine bee and we \ 
will call her Lady Bombus, be- 
cause Bombus is the name of the 
genus to which she belongs. 

No ; it will do no harm to catch 
her, if you can. 

See ! John has put a tumbler i , m 
over her and slipped a postal card 
under the tumbler so that she can- 
not escape. What a buzzing ! How angry my lady is ! 


MoUie says she" has caught bumblebees in pumpkin 
blossoms to hear them sing. When you see one in the 
bottom of the flower you just double the petals over the 
top ¡ª and there you have your prisoner. 

Yes, they do sing, but not as we do; their song 
comes from their spiracles where their vocal organs 
are located. 

You see they breathe at the spiracles, so it is quite 
natural they should sing there too ; but they also sing ¡ª 
or buzz ¡ª by vibrating the upper part of the body and 
the upper parts of the wings. If you touch the thorax 
of one of these singing bees, you will/(2eZ the song as 
well as hear it. 

Yes, May ; it can be felt very distinctly through the 
delicate petals of our pumpkin flower, which vibrate so 
rapidly as to tickle our fingers sometimes. 

May says an angry bumblebee emits a bad odor. So 
it does, as you can easily discover from our captive here 
in the tumbler. It is a strange odor the angry bee 
gives forth, a little like honey and a good deal like 
bee poison. 

Poor frightened little bee ! Now she has settled down 
on the clover head that John squeezed in through a 
crack between the card and the rim of the tumbler. 

She seems to have forgotten her excitement as she 
explores the treasures of the clover. 





Her Wings 

Just notice her wings folded over her back. 

Yes ; her back is broader than her wings, 
which do look small for such a heavy body. 

They are large enough, however, to enable 
her to dart about with great rapidity, and fly 
very swiftly indeed when she makes a " bee 
line" for home. It is because she can move 
her wings so quickly that she can fly so well. 

Yes, Mollie; we get the expression "bee line" from 
.. the bees, because they take the most 
£¤- direct route home when they have a 







bee's back ? If you were to go home with Lady Bombus 
you could guess. 

John says he has been to her home, which is in a hol- 
low under ground. She has to crawl down between the 
grass blades and through a little hole in the ground ; and 
when she finally reaches her nest she still needs narrow 
wings in order to move about in the restricted space. 

We have here a dead bumblebee that was found in the 

house the other day, so we can easily examine its wings. 

There are four, you see, and they are all used in flying. 

The outer ones are larger and the inner 

^>ones slip under them, out of the way, 

when the wings are folded. 

These brown wings are thin and gauzy, 
though not nearly so delicate as the wings 
of the honeybee. 
It is the gauzy wings that give the name to the Bee 
Order, ¡ª membrane-wings, or Hymenoptera. 

No ; you cannot always see four wings on a bee. The 
reason is that these champion flyers have a way of hook- 
ing together the two wings on each side, 
thus making one strong wing. ""^^^^^^^N^ 

Yes, indeed. May ; they do really hook ^^-^ 
the wings together. You can see the hooks with the 
little magnifying glass. There is a row of them on 
the upper edge of the under wing. 






Now look on the lower edge of the upper wing and 
you will find a sort of fold or groove into which these 
hooks catch. 

You can quite easily hook the wings together, and 
when you have done so ¡ª see, John has done it ! ¡ª you 
would have to look carefully indeed to discover that 
there were two wings. 

All bees, so far as I know, have these wing fasteners. 

What an old fuzzy coat our bumblebee is ! Jacket of 
yellow fur and abdomen clad in bands of black \s 
and yellow fur ! 

What is that, May ? She may be pretty, but 
she certainly is not good-natured ? 

Ah, May ! you surely do not judge her fairly. 

Of course she will sting you if you pick her up in 
your fingers. But who can blame her for that ? She is 
only defending herself from what she thinks is an enor- 
mous and terrible enemy. 

If you do not frighten her, she is the gentlest of insects 
and never stings unless you threaten her nest or herself. 

Honey and Beebread 

Now just see what we can do with her. All bees are 
very fond of honey and will leave any other sweet for 
it. Knowing we were to look at bees to-day, Mollie 







brought a little bottle of honey, 
'and now we will put a drop of 
it on my finger. 

What, Nell, ¡ª you want it on 
your finger ? 
Are you sure you will not be afraid when 
^ the bee crawls on your finger to get it? 
No, you are not afraid of old Fuzzy Bumbles? 
Well, then, stick the end of your finger in the honey. 
Now raise the tumbler a little bit and put the tip of your 
finger in. 

Ah, how quickly those sensitive antennae know that 
honey is near ! Lady Bombus is already tapping Nell's 
finger with her feelers. 

Yes, Ned ; the antennae are bent at a sharp angle in 
the middle; that is one way by which we know the 
bees, ¡ª they all have these bent antennae. 

Ah ! now Lady Bombus has clasped her two front feet 
about Nell's finger while she sucks up the honey. 

Raise the tumbler very gently, John ; now remove it 
altogether. See ! she does not move away. Now Nell, 
slowly raise your finger. Don't be afraid ; it will never 
enter her good little heart to sting you. 

There ! she has clasped two more feet about Nell's fin- 
ger. Now she has let go of the card altogether and is 
clinging to the little girl's finger eating the honey. 






While she is thus busy let us take a good look at 
those yellow balls on her hind legs. 

Do you know what they are made of ? John says he 
has part of one that fell off when she was so excitedly 
buzzing about in the tumbler after he first caught her. 

It is soft, you see, and pastelike, something like stiff 
cake dough. 

It smells like honey and has a sweetish taste. 

Yes, it is beebread ; and our little lady here is taking 
it home to the nest to feed the young bees. 

John says it is made of pollen gathered from the 
flowers and mixed with nectar to make it stick together. 







Pollen Baskets 




Charlie thinks that is a funny place to carry it. 

Perhaps it is a, very good place when you come to 
think of it. 

You see it is on the outside of the hind legs, where it 
is as much out of the way as it very well can be. 

There is something peculiar about the hind l^s of 
bumblebees. They 'are modified to form baskets in 
which to carry pollen. 
^^^^ Look at this picture of a bee's leg magnified. 

The femur, you see, is very broad, and is hol- 
lowed on the outside, the hollow being bordered 
by stiff hairs. You can see this little basket 
quite plainly on our dead bee. 

Yes, indeed ; this arrangement exists on purpose that 
the bee may carry home her pollen. 

Have you ever watched a bumblebee collecting pollen ? 

She wallows about over the pollen-covered flower, 
working with her hairy legs and getting her hairy body 
all dusted over with the little pollen grains that stick 
to the hairs. Then she rubs her hind legs, which are 
covered on the tibias with little stiff and hairy combs, 
over her body and collects the pollen, which she finally 
scrapes from one leg into the basket of the other. 

We must watch her do it this very day. 






Combs and Brushes 




Yes, you are quite right, 
Ned; those other spines and 
brushes on the leg are to keep 
our pretty friend clean. She is constantly cleaning her 
face, and her body, and her gauzy wings with her legs. 

Yes ; she carries her combs and brushes on her legs. 

May says she is doubling up her fore leg and drawing 
it over her antenna. Yes, that is in order that she may 
clean the antenna. 

Perhaps you do not know that she has a round comb 
on the upper end of her tibia. Well, she has, right at 
the joint. And there is a hard little scraper hanging 
down from the lower end of the femur. 

When she draws her leg over the antenna, the an- 
tenna slips into the round comb; then she shuts the 
scraper down on it, and as she pulls the antenna 
through every particle of dust is cleaned off. 

Clever? Well, I should think so ! 

If you examine this picture, perhaps you can see how 
it is done. And if you examine the bee's leg with a ^^ 
magnifying glass, you will see yet better. ^"^^/^ 

Yes, all bees have these cleaners for their /Jx I 

antennae, ¡ª one on each fore leg. While ^/"^ ^.^^-"'^^ 
we have been talking about the antennae ^ 






cleaners our bee has flown away. No doubt she has 
gone home with her load of honey. 

What good will the honey do those at home when 
she has eaten it herself, May wants to know. 

Well, the truth is, May, she has n't eaten it. She has 
only swallowed it, and when she likes she can pump it 
up again and put it into the places provided for it in 
her nest. 

The Honey Sac 

She has a little sac in her body on purpose to hold 
nectar from the flowers while she is carrying it home. 
It is a tiny sac as clear as a bubble and holds only a 
small drop. 

No, May; nectar is not just the same as honey. The 
bees collect the sweet nectar from the flowers and in 
some way convert it into honey. If you were to gather 
nectar, you could not change it into honey, but the bees 
are able to do so. 

Yes, they sometimes swallow pollen, too, and this 
goes into the honey sac with the nectar ; but there is a 
tiny strainer in this remarkable honey sac, by means of 
which the pollen is all strained out, and only the clear, 
pure honey left to go into the honeycomb. 

What, Nell ¡ª your bee has comeback ? She cannot live 
far away, and she wants the rest of that drop of honey. 







See ! she goes straight to Nell's finger. Now 
she has settled on it and is finishing the drop 
which, fortunately, Nell had not wiped off. 



W^l_y <^:2 ___^? ^ ^^^^^^^^^3^ 









The Tongue 

Watch her little black tongue go in and out. 

How fast she licks it up ! 

She lets down a sort of stiff tube first, and out of /\ 
the lower end of it comes wriggling a soft little 
tongue. 

That tongue is so important. Lady Bombus, that 
we shall have to consider it. See ! here is a picture 
of it magnified. You see the hairy little tongue 
coming down below the sheath. 







Well, that sheath is not so simple as it looks. 
Here is another picture showing how it can be 

separated into four parts. 

The four stiff parts lie olose together, forming 

the tube in which the long tongue lies. 

Yes, John; she has good strong little jaws; but 

these you can see better when her tongue sheath 

is folded back under her head, which is where she 
carries it when it is not in use. 

Here is a picture showing the jaws open. The jaws 
are very useful to some bees, ¡ª more useful ,,''"x 
to some others than to the bimiblebees. /i ti 

All insects have these mouth parts, only|>r^*^ 
they are shaped differently in different species, i x^""""^ 

They are quite distinct in the grasshopper, ^ 
and quite short. You can see them move when the 
grasshopper eats. 

In some insects the mouth parts are all separate and 
of about the same size. 

Yes, John ; it is so in the grasshoppers. 

In some insects a portion of the mouth parts are very- 
large, while other parts are very small. In some the 
mouth parts grow together to form tubes, as you know. 

In our bees the mouth parts form tubes without grow- . 
ing together. 

We must now look at your home, little bee. 





The Nest 



How can we do this ? Why, a man was plowing near 
here yesterday, and he plowed up a biunblebees' nest. 

Yes, indeed; there loas a time! The man ran, and 
the horses ran, and everybody was very much excited 
for a little while. One of the horses was stung twice, 
and the man who had his hat off fighting the bees that 
were buzzing around him had a jab from a stinger on 
the top of his head. 

You could not blame the bees for trying to defend 
their home. 

Sometimes boys dig up bumblebees' nests for the sake 
of the honey there. 

What, May, ¡ª you should think they would be pretty- 
looking objects ? 

Oh! they run when the bees get after them, and 
fight them off with their caps. And if they do get 
stung, why that is nothing compared to the fun of 
taking the nest, ¡ª so they think. 

But to return to our plowed-up bumblebees' nest. 

Towards night, when the bees had quieted down, some 
of us went out and picked up the nest and put it in a 
box, and there it is, ready to be looked at. 

No ; I hardly think the bees that are in the box will 
sting us. There are only a few old ones left, and they 







do not seem at all ugly. They seem to understand 
there is no lifee fighting any more. 

See ! here is the nest. Yes ; it does look like a giant 



honeycomb, 
it, though* 




Toil would hardly care to eat 
It i^ not made of wax. 

In order to under- 
stand just how it 
was made, we shall 
, have to go back 
to last spring, 
when this nest 
was first started. There was only one bee to start it, ¡ª 
one large queen bee. 

Yes, Nell ; we can call her Queen Bombus. 
She had been lying all winter hidden away in some 
safe comer, and as soon as spring came out she crawled 
and flew about to find, a place to make her home. 

Finally she selected a little hole she found in the 
ground in the meadow. 

Perhaps the hole once held a mouse's nest. 
But it was vacant then, and Queen Bombus by 
carrying out bits of earth soon enlarged it until it 
suited her. 

Then she flew to the flowers and gathered balls of 
pollen on her hind legs. She hurried home with load 
after load of pollen, until she had quite a lump of it. 




In this pollen she laid a few eggs, and from these there 
soon hatched ¡ª what do you think? 

John thinks some sort of larva hatched out. 



Young Bees 

Yes, John ; out of the eggs hatched little white, leg- 
less things more helpless even than a maggot, for they 
could not even skip about. 

They stayed quietly in the mass of pollen, which, of 
course, they ate ; and of course they grew and grew fast. 
By the time they had eaten quite a little den about 
themselves they were ready to become pupae. When 
this happened they began to spin silk from their 
mouths, as the caterpillars do, and soon each larva had 
made a silken cocoon about itself. It is the silken 
cocoons that we have here in the box. These cells that 
look like honeycomb are made of silk instead of wax, 
and they hold young bees instead of honey. 

As soon as the bee larva has spun its cocoon it trans- 
forms into a pupa and lies quite still for a few days. 

Then you know what happens next. Yes ; it trans- 
forms into a perfect winged bee, bites its way out, 
and begins the work of living in the outer world. 

Here is one of the young bees just coming 
out. It is a little fellow and ¡ª yes, it has white 





hair. But its fuzz will turn yellow in a day or two. 
Young bees start out in life very pale and dainty little 
things. 

This is a worker bee, and they are never as large as 
the queens. 

Workers 

When the queen bee starts her nest she lays only a 
few eggs at first. These hatch into workers. As soon 
as the workers are strong enough, they go out in search 
of honey and pollen. 

But they do not desert their home and start one of 
their own. No, indeed; these faithful little workers fly 
to the old nest with their booty and help the queen 
mother, who now stays at home andjeaves all the food 
gathering to the workers. 

The pollen comes in fast now, with so many to bring 
it, the queen lays many eggs, and young bees ¡ª always 
workers ¡ª begin to appear in large numbers. 

The worker bee is a small female, but it lays no eggs 
as a rule. It is the nurse and the housekeeper, taking 
care of the nest and carrying home the food. 

Because the bees live together in this way in com- 
munities, all working together for the common good, 
we call them " social " insects. If one were separated 
from the rest it would soon die. 






Yes, May; the reason we see only small bumblebees 
in the middle of the summer is because the big queens 
are staying at home. 

Oh, yes ; the little bees can sting, but they do not go 
about looking for trouble. They never sting unless 
they are very much excited. But if you disturb their 
nest you may be sure they will punish you to the best 
of their ability. 

Sometimes the workers fill the empty cocoons with 
honey. Their honey is rather strong in flavor, but 
children like to eat it. Bears like it, too, and in spite 






of the frantic stings of the luckless workers Bruin will 
rip open a bees' nest, if he can find it, and eat up every- 
thing there. 

Sometimes there is quite a good deal of wax found in 
a bumblebees' nest, and then again there will be none at 
all. It is the honeybees that are so skillful in wax making. 

Queens and Drones 

Mollie wants to know where the queen bee comes 
from, ¡ª if only workers hatch out of the eggs. 

Well, late in the summer a few of the larvae turn into 
big queens. Others of the larvae turn into king bees ; these 
are also large, though not quite so large as the queens. 
What is that. May, ¡ª you never heard of a king bee ? 
Oh, yes, you have, only you called it by another name. 
We usually call the king bees drones. 
Only the male bee is a drone. 

Yes, May ; he is always scolded for being 
lazy, but that is not fair. 
He has no honey sac and no pollen baskets, 
so he cannot help provision the hive. 

He is the big, square-bodied bee with long 
antennae that we often see sitting on the flowers 
in the fall. You can easily tell him by his long, 
drooping feelers and his large wings. 






If you watch the bumblebees on the flowers in the 
fall, you will soon be quite sure which are the drones. 
And when you are sure, you can safely put your hand 
over one and pick him up. 

He will laake a great buzzing, but he will not sting. 

Ned says he saw a boy once who had his hand full 
of big bumblebees that did not sting him. No 
doubt, Ned, they were droneSj aod you could 
have handled them as well as he. 

The drone is perfectly harmless, and 
reason is that he has no sting. 

The sting of the bee is its ovipositor, aud 
females, therefore, have stings. 

May wants to know ^^^^ 
what would happen if ^^ '^^^''^ ^ \^^^ 
you should take up a ^|>^^i^ ^,K/ 
bee, thinking it was a \^ 

drone, and it should turn out to 
be a queen. / 

In that case you might pay 
the penalty of yoin: mistake, 
though the queens do 
not like to stiug. 

After all,- a bee sting 
isn't so terrible, and there is not 
much danger of making a mistake 







if you are careful. The long, drooping antennaB and the 
square end to the abdomen, set with rather stiff hairs, 
readily distinguish the drone. 

Ned asks if it is true that the bumblebees turn the 
drones out to perish in the fall of the year. 
- No, Ned ; that is not true of the bumblebees. 

When fall comes all the bumblebees excepting the 
young queens die. These hide away until the next 
season, when they come out and each one starts a nest 
for herself. 

We see them in the spring, flying about, poking into 
every rubbish pile, and examining carefully the side- 
walks and the fields ; for they build their nests in any 
convenient and sheltered spot, and what farmer has 
not had a bumblebees' nest in one of his 
sheds where things were thrown down in 
a less orderly manner than they might 
have been? 

The bees will take possession and will 
H, heartily sting anybody who interferes. 

The Sting 

The queens do not like to sting. You see, the sting 
sometimes sticks fast and cannot be pulled out again. 
When this happens the frightened bee jerks loose, 






leaving her sting in the wound. This is a fatal accident, 
and the bee soon dies as a result of it. 

This happens less frequently to the large, strong 
bumblebees than to the smaller honeybees. Indeed, 
a honeybee almost always loses its sting when it jabs 
it into a human being's tough skin, and it is almost 
impossible to make the honeybee queen sting. You can 
tease her and pinch her, and yet she will not run the 
risk of losing her precious sting by runniag it into you. 
Queen bees never like to sting anything but another bee. 

Yes, Ned ; I guess most everybody knows how the 
little black bee sting looks with the little bubble at the 
top. 

That little bubble that comes out with the sting is 
really the cause of almost all the pain the sting 
occasions. 

John says he has heard it is a sac of poison. 

And that is just what it is, ¡ª a sac of poison. 

The muscles in the body of the bee squeeze this 
poison down through the sting into your skin, and it 
is the poison that makes the tiny woimd so painful and 
causes the flesh about it to swell so badly. 

If it were not for the poison, a bee sting would not 
hurt any more than a pin prick. 

Why do you suppose the sting sticks so fast ? 

Well, for the same reason a fishhook sticks. 






Ned says it is the barbs on the end of a hook that 
make it stick. 

And if you can believe it, Ned, this outrageous little 
sting has ever so many tiny barbs at its end. 

They are too small to be seen without a strong mag- 
nifying glass, but' they are very efficient, nevertheless. 
Here is a picture of a sting magnified. 
? Now is n't that a pretty thuig to stick into your 
skin? 

The bee's sting was doubtless not given to it in 
the first place as a weapon of defense, but for quite 
another purpose, which we will discover later. 

But the bee learned to use it as a means of defense, 
and now that is the only use to which it is put by 
the bee family. 

The bumblebees are our good friends, and we should 
never needlessly kill one or break up a nest. If it were 
not for the bimiblebees we would have no red clover, 
as their long tongues alone are able to 
fertilize the little clover blossoms that you 
know are packed together in each clover 
head. If you examine a clover head care- 
fully you will understand about it. 







Lady Apis 

Fairy, fairy on the flowers, who are you, little 
fairy? 

See what dainty wings ! and how fast they buzz ! 
May says she thinks the honeybees are the prettiest 
of all the insects. 

MoUie says she loves to hear them hum and she 
loves to see them flying about. 

They have tongues like the bumblebee, only not so 
long. They cannot get the red-clover honey, but they 
can get that from the little white clover, ¡ª and how 
they do love it ! You will always see honeybees where 
there is a field of white clover, and we all 
know how delicious 
white-clover honey is. 
No, the honeybee is 
not called Bombus, 
but Apis. But like the 
bumblebee it is, as you 
know, a social insect, 
living in communi- 
ties and all working 
together for 
Ai^i^ the common 
good. 







Yes, John; our little Lady Apis is formed very much 
like her big relative, Lady Bombus, as to legs, tongue, 
and sting. 

She carries her pollen in baskets on the hind legs and 
stings in defense of her home. 

She has antenna cleaners and a honey sac, but in one 
respect she differs from the other bees of this country. 

Wax 

Ned says he can guess what that is; it is her wax- 
making habit. 

Right, Ned ; the honeybee is the great wax maker of 
the world. 

Now where do you suppose this wax comes from ? 

Mollie says she guesses the bee collects the wax from 
plants. 

No, Mollie ; our dainty bee actually makes the wax. 

She sweats it out on the under side of the abdomen. 
There it appears as little white scales that lie in depres- 
sions like little pockets on the rings of the abdomen. 

Now, Nell, what are you laughing so about ? 

You never heard of anything so funny as sweating 
out wax ? 

Well, it may be funny, but it is a very useful habit 
to the bees. 





You see the bees live in a hive or a hollow tree, and 
they do not die when winter comes. They all live, 
queen and workers, ¡ª all but the drones. There are a 
great many thousands of bees in a hive and it takes a 
large supply of food to carry them through the winter. 

You know very well what their food is. It is honey 
and beebread. 

Yes, Nell; they live on bread and honey. 

Their bread is made of pollen mixed with honey and 
is like the mass of pollen the bumblebees store away. 

No, indeed. May; our dainty bees are not satisfied to 
live on beebread alone. They want pure honey as well, 
and so they make the delicate honeycomb from the wax 
that oozes out of their own clean little bodies. 

You can see the bees gathering honey on any sum- 
mer's day, and you must not forget their little honey 
sac with the strainer that holds the clear honey, free 
from any impurity. 

The making of honeycomb is one of the most Wi)n- 
derful things in the world. 

If you could look into a hive when the honeycomb 
was being made you would find the wax-making bees 
hung up like a curtain in the hive, clinging to each 
other by their feet and keeping perfectly still. 

No, John; the bees do not all make wax at once. 
Only part of them do this while the others are off after 







honey or doing other work in the hive. 
I'be wax-making bees gorge themselves 
with honey, and then keep 
still until the heavy meal 
digests. A part of the honey 
* they have eaten becomes con- 
verted mto wax. 

Yes, May; eating honey is 
very different from carrying it in 
the honey sac. When the bees eat 
it, it passes on through the honey 
/ \f]!^ S i^^^ sac into the stomach, where it is 
digested. They can pass it on when they 
please, and they can hold it back in the honey sac when 
they please. 

Ned is surprised that bees have stomachs. 
The truth is, Ned, all animals are alike in a general 
way. All of them, from the humblest up to man him- 
self, breathe, digest food, and give off waste substances 
from the body in essentially the same way. 

When you have studied living things more you will 
understand this beautiful truth. 






Honeycomb 



Now about honeycomb. 

When the wax has filled the little pockets of the 
wax workers, they take this brittle substance in their 
little mandibles, or jaws, and chew it, so you see 
how very useful the hard little jaws are to the honey- 
bees. They chew the wax until it is soft and can be 
molded into shape. Then the fim begins. 

You know how a piece of honeycomb looks. 

Yes, Nell ; it is like a great. /^\^^ many long little 
boxes piled up close together. 

Yes, they really are boxes, or 
cans, or cups, just as you _3 __f 
choose to think of them. ; 

Well, the bees have to ,^^'Mp f^:^^ --^ >^^ 

make these wax cups, and yon '^^^([l^^ ^ ¡ê^ 
must not forget that the honeycomb 
has a double set of cups piled up bottom to bottom 
and opening on opposite sides of the comb. 

How do you suppose the little bees do it ? 

Try it yourself with a lump of wax. Make if you can 
just one of those fragile cells, and make it as thin and 
as perfect in form as the bee makes it. 

My dears, you could not do it. Try as long and as 
hard as you like, you could not do it. 






Yet the bees, dozens at a time, work together on the 
honeycomb. They mold the wax into shape with their 
homy mandibles, they pat it with their feet, they pinch 
it and pull it, all standing side by side and working 
together. 

No, May; one bee does not make a whole cell; ever 
so many bees work at each cell, and yet they do not 
get in each other's way nor do they interfere with each 
other's work. 

When they get through there is the marvelous honey- 
comb, made of munberless cells, perfect, empty, ready 
for the honey. 

If you look at honeycomb carefully, you will see 
there is a top and a bottom to it. If you stand it upside 
down, the honey will run out. 

See this honeycomb. Now is it right 
side up or wrong side up ? 
Yes, it is wrong side up. 
If the caps at the end should break, 
the honey would run out. 

Now John is holding it right side up, and you see 
the cells slant up a little, so 
that the top is higher than 
the bottom. 

This helps the bee when 
she is filling the comb with 







honey. It does not run out but remains in place uniil 
she can get the cap on. 

Yes, Nell ; when the cell is full, the bee makes a tight 
wax cap or cover over the top. 

No, John; the cells are not all of exactly the same 
size, even in the middle of the comb. But they are 
nearly the same size, excepting that sometimes, in the 
corners, the cells are large in size or irregular in form 
to fill up the space. 

True, May ; the cells are not curved and smooth inside 
like a cup. They are six-sided, excepting again those 
on the edges, which are somewhat rounded on 
the outside. 

Why do you think the bee makes six-sided 
cells ? 

If you draw a figure with six equal sides, you 
will see. You can place six-sided figures around it and 
fill up all the space. 

Now draw a five-, or a seven-, or an eight-sided figure, 
and you will see how impossible it would 
be to finish it and make a honeycomb of it. 
John says squares would fit together as 
well as hexagons. 

That is true, John. And why do you suppose the 
bees do not make four-sided cells instead of six-sided 
ones ? 








' Yes, that is true ; the four-sided cups would not be 
nearly so strong. 

And so our Uttle architects have wisely chosen the 
one form of cell best suited to their needs. 

Do all the wax cells in the hive contain honey ? 
Nell says they do. 

John says they do not. Last summer he was on a 
farm where they took honey out of old-fashioned hives, 
and there were a great many cells that contained bee- 
bread instead of honey. 

We do not often see beebread these days, because 
man has made very clever hives for the bees, 'and these 
hives have little boxes on top. The bees put the bee- 
bread in the lower part of the hive in the honeycomb 
there, near the young. 

But in the top of the hive, where the little boxes are 
placed, the bees store the extra 
honey, and this hardly ever con- 
tains beebread. 

Yes ; the little glass cases of 
honey we buy in stores are taken 
from the tops of the hives. The 
wooden frames are put in a row, 
and when they are filled with 
honey they are taken out, and 
the glass sides put on to protect 








them on their way to market. We all like to eat the 
honey out of these glass cases. 

No, the bees do not miss this honey. They have 
plenty stored away in the bottom of the hive. And 
then you know that if honey should get scarce towards 
spring, the bee keeper, who is always on the watch, 
would find it out and feed the bees on sugar and water. 



Beehives 

Our neighbor has a hive, and I am sure he will be 
glad to have us make it a visit. 

We will be careful not to go too near, or we may 
get stung. Bees in the field and V on the flowers will 
not sting; but if you go near 
their hive they are apt to. 

Yes, indeed; you can 
clearly see the upper part 
where the little honey 
frames are stored. All I 
you have to do is to 
lift that top off and 
take out the frames 
of honey. 

You would n't like to be the 
one to do it, May ? 






Oh, but the beemaster understands just how to man- 
age, and he seldom gets stung. 

His wise little bees learn to know him, too, and allow 
him to do what they would not submit to from a stranger. 

Sometimes he blows a little smoke on the bees from 
a smoker that comes on purpose, and this smoke quiets 
them imtil he can escape with the honey. 

It is great fun to keep bees. 

Mollie wants to know what is in the lower part of 
that hive*. 

Ah, Mollie ! there is something very important down 
there. 

K you could see in, you would find it full of honey- 
comb and bees. Oh, such quantities of bees ! 

And if you were to examine the honeycomb, you 
would find some of it containing honey and some of it 
something else. 

Yes, Ned ; some of it would be found to contain bee- 
bread. But that is not all. Yet other wax cells would 
contain neither beebread nor honey, but something very 
different. 

See how excited Nell is ! 

Yes, my dear ; you have guessed it. Some of the 
waxen cells contain eggs and larvae. 

The queen bee lays an egg in the cell, and soon this 
hatches into a little larva, like the bumblebee larva. 







The Larv^ and Pup^ 

There is just one queen in the hive, and she lays all 
the eggs. 

As soon as the egg hatches the worker bees feed it ; 
for these cells are not packed full of food upon which 
the larva can feed at pleasure. 

No ; each honeybee larva lies in its waxen cradle and 
waits for the good nurse bees to come along and fill its 
little mouth, as the old bird feeds the young ones. 

When the larvae have grown and molted their very 
delicate skins o¡êE; ¡ª so delicate you can hardly see them, 
¡ª and have finished their larval development, then what 
do you suppose happens ? 

Why, the nurse bees cap over the open end of the cell 
with a cover of wax ; and there are those larvae with 
nothing to do but to turn into 
pupae. 

The first thing they do is to 
spin a cap of silk over the door 
end of their prison. 

I don't know why they do 
that, unless it is a " survival," as we say of a habit 
that was once useful to them. 

Of course the bees have progressed very far indeed 
from what they once were. 





Very likely the young bees in bygone ages made a 
cocoon as the bumblebee larvae still do, and maybe they 
have not quite outgrown the habit, although they no 
longer need a cocoon, protected as they are in their 
beautiful wax cradles. 

What, May, ¡ª was there once a time when bees did 
not make honeycomb ? 

I am sure of it. They learned to do it gradually, 
until it finally assumed its present perfect form. 

But to return to those larvae. They soon change, as 
you will have guessed, into pupae, and in the picture of 
magnified brood cells you can see them. 

When their time is up the pupae cut a hole in their 
wax cover with their hard little mandibles, and out they 
come, perfect honeybees. 

Workers and Drones 

You can readily imagine that the greater number of 
the bees that come out are workers. 

All through the early part of the summer the workers 
come forth in great numbers ; thousands upon thousands 
appear, and as soon as they bite free from their prison 
cells they go to work. 

Some do the work of the hive, keeping it clean and 
ventilating it ; others fly forth in search of pollen and 






honey with which to feed the many hungry 
mouths in the hive and fill the 
empty cells. 

Yes; there are a very great many 
cells in a beehive, ¡ª enough to hold 
the brood and the honey, too. 

Yes, Mollie ; the bees use the , 
same cradle cells over and over ^ 
again. 

As soon as a bee comes out the 
careful nurses clean the cell, and the 
queen lays another egg in it. 

Mollie is asking where the drones 
come from. 

Knowing as you do about the bumble- 
bees, I am sure you can guess what kind of 
bees the drones are. 

Yes ; they are the male bees, and like the bumblebee 
drones they come out in the fall of the year. 

But they do not come from common honeycomb cells. 

No, indeed; the workers build larger cells for the 
drones. They are just like honeycomb cells, only larger. 

Of course these large cells are comparatively few in 
number, though there may be hundreds of them. 

The queen lays an egg in each drone cell, but this egg 
of the drone is different from the eggs of the workers. 






It hatches into a larva that grows into a large pupa 
and finally bites its way out, like the worker bees. 
Do you think you could tell a drone bee by sight ? 
Yes, he is larger than the worker. 
Like the bumblebee drone he has long, 
drooping antennae, and his wings are 
larger in proportion to his body than 
the worker's wings. 

He, too, has no sting, no collecting 
baskets on his legs, and his tongue is small and weak. 
No, he has no honey sac. 
He cannot work. 

You have all heard how he is turned out of the hive 
in the fall of the year. 

The poor fellows are driven forth to perish of cold 
and himger, and sometimes the workers even sting 
them to death. 

You see the bees cannot a¡êEord to have idle mouths to 
feed during the long winter, and so the poor drones are 
sacrificed. 

The Queen 

Now about the queen. She is generally the only per- 
fect female in the hive ; for the workers, as you know, 
are imperfect females that do not lay eggs. Well, there 
comes a time when there are several queens, and this is 






generally somewhat late in the season, ¡ª about the time 
the drones appear. 

The history of the queen is very remarkable, as I 
suppose the history of a queen ought to be. 

Her cell is very different from any other fy^'^ 
cell in the hive. ^{ 

See if you can tell which are the queen 
cells in the picture. 

Yes,they are much larger than the honey- 
comb cells, are thimble shaped, and hang 
mouth down. Now the strangest part is to come. 

The queen lays an egg, exactly like a worker's egg, in 
the queen cell. 

When this egg hatches the nurse bees feed it on a 
kind of food they make on purpose. This food is so 
nutritious that the larvae fed on it develop into perfect 
females, larger than the workers and able to lay the 
necessary eggs. 

May says she should think they might feed worker 
larvae on this food and make queens of them. 

So they can. And so they sometimes do, ¡ª that is, if 
the larva is not too old. 

If the queen should die before she had laid eggs in 
the queen cells, the workers would enlarge a worker 
cell and feed the yoimg larva on queen food, and she 
would develop into a queen. 





Yes ; it is very, very wonderful. 

But suppose the queen does not die, and suppose that 
finally there hatches out a young queen. What will 
happen ? 

Both cannot stay in the same hive. There would be 
trouble indeed. So the old queen departs with a few 
thousands of workers. 

Swarming 

This, you know, is what happens when the bees 
swarm. 

Out the bees come and sit around idle on the outside 
of the hive until it is half covered with them. 

Now all is ready and off they go, streaming, circling, 
gathering closer and closer, until there is a solid mass 
of bees with the dethroned queen somewhere in the 
middle. 

How in the world they can fly huddled together 
like that is a mystery. But they can, and they can 
all go for the same point, too, which seems even more 
wonderful. 

The question now is where to go. 

Generally they soon stop somewhere on the branch 
of a tree or on a bush before taking the final journey. 

This is the time the bee keeper appears. He collects 
them in a new hive, which he puts in a comfortable 




place, and generally they stay, though sometimes they 
do not like the new home and soon leave it. 

No; there is not much danger of getting stung by 
swarming bees; they are usually harmless at that time, 
though I should not advise one who did not understand 
bees to interfere with them. 

If the bee man does not take the swarm, what do you 
think becomes of it? 

Yes, John; it escapes to the woods and there in a hol- 
low tree it makes its new home. 

Nellie is asking how it knew where to go. 

Probably the bees send out scouts to find the new hive 
before they swarm, and these scouts direct them. 

Oh, yes, indeed; the bees are wise. In some respects 
they are wiser than we. 

If they find the opening to the new nest too large, or 
if there are holes in the nest, these clever little home 
makers know what to do. 

Away go the workers and collect a quantity of sticky 
varnish from plant buds and other places, and with this 
" propolis," as it is called, they plaster up all the holes. 






Care of the Home 

There are no better housekeepers than the bees. 
They know the value of fresh air, and you can imagine 
there is need of it in such a crowded house with only 
one small entrance. 

So these good bees ventilate their home. Some of 
them stand at the entrance and fan their wings very 
fast indeed, thus changing the air inside. 

Meantime what has been happening in the 
hive that the queen bee and the swarm so 
iniceremoniously left ? 

Well, the young queen flies out of the hive 
and high up in the air, where she mates with a 
drone. Then she comes back to the hive and 
the regular work of life goes on. 

The yoimg queen begins to lay eggs, and soon 
libber own progeny appear in large numbers to 
I \^ swell the size of the family. 
Vi^^ May wants to know about the other young 
)\r queens. 

If there are several queens all in a hive, 
the first queen to hatch out sometimes 
behaves very despotically indeed. 
She goes to the queen cells, pulls off the caps, 
*and stings the helpless occupants to death. 






If two queens hatch out at the same time, there is a 
fight unless the workers prevent it by surroimding the 
queens and keeping them apart. 

Sometimes several swarms will leave a hive in one 
season and each one, of course, will need a queen. In 
such cases the queens are not allowed to kiU each other. 

There are honeybees all over the world, though they 
are not all just like our honeybees. 

Now what do you think? 

Our only native honeybee is our old friend bimible- 
bee. The hive bees were brought to this country from 
Europe by the early settlers. 

No, MoUie; the Indians had no honey excepting what 
they could get from the bimiblebees' nests, until the 
white man brought the hive bees. 

Yes, there are a great many wild swarms now. The 
bees have left the hives of man's providing and gone to 
housekeeping in homes of their own finding. 

They dearly love a hollow tree, and these " bee 
trees," as they are called, are sought for the honey they 
contain. 



y- 




LiiOKG Bees 

John says he has helped find a bee tree and it is great 
sport. 

You can soon learn to " line " bees, as it is called. 
Yes; when you see honeybees on the flowers catch 
two or three of them in a net. Then feed one of them 
all the honey it wants and let it go. It will rise up in 
-s. the air and make a " bee line " for its home. 

^-.^ Go some distance away and feed and liber- 

"^ ^ ate another bee. It will also make 

" ^ . a " bee line " for home, and 

^ ^ ^ the point at which these 

"^:^ two lines come together 

^ ^^ -^ " " " must be the home of 

^ ^-- - '"¡ö " the bee. See, here is a bee going 

^ straight to the hive. 

Here is another going straight to the same hive. 
By watching what directions the two bees take, one 
can soon learn to find the hive or the tree in which 
they live. 

It is fun to line bees even if you do not want to get 
the honey. 

No; it is not easy to get honey out of a tree. You 
have to chop the tree down, or at least chop a hole in 
it, ¡ª and there are the bees to settle with. 






No, indeed, Ned ; not ( all bees have as fine 
hives provided for them 
as those of our neighbor. 

The old-fashioned liives 
were just box.es from 
which the honey and 
beebread were taken, 
all in the combs 
together, and the 
poor bees were 
smoked to death. 

Now the hives 
are opened, the pure honey taken 
out from the top, and the rest not disturbed. Sometimes 
the bees are quieted with smoke, but not killed. 

In the South the hollow trunks of sweet-gum trees 
are used for beehives ; these are called bee gums. 

They are often very picturesque standing in the 
flower gardens, but they are not so good for the bees as 
the fine modem hives. 







Abtificial Comb 



May wants to know if it is true ihsii people now 
make artificial honeycomb. 

Yes and no, May. Very often the beeswax is melted 
up after the honey has been extracted, and this wax is 
pressed by machinery into sheets covered on both sides 
with hollows the shape of the bottom of a honeycomb. 

These sheets of pressed wax are hung up in the hives, 
and if you will believe it, the bees go to work and pull 
out the edges of the wax and complete the honeycomb! 

You see, this saves a great deal of time for the bees. 

Instead of secreting wax and building the honeycomb 
from the beginning, they can finish up this prepared 
wax and spend their time bringing in honey. 

In this way the bee men succeed in getting the bees 
to make a great deal more honey. 

What, May, ¡ª you should think the supply of wax 
would give out? 

Oh, but they do not make all the honeycomb this 
way! No, indeed; the bees still continue to make a 
great deal themselves. 

Yes, indeed, John ; another advantage in giving the 
bees a sheet of wax to start with, or a little piece of a 
sheet hung in their little frames, is that the bees are 
thus encouraged to build straight combs. In the 





old-fashioned box hives the combs soraetimea 

stand .side way a or even at right angles to 

each other, and it is then impossible to take 

them out unbroken. 

Oh, there is so much that is interesting about bees, 

we could spend the whole summer over them and then 

not know all. 




The Burly Carpenter 




Listen ! What do you 

suppose is in that stick 

John has in his hand ? Such 

a buzzing ! Ah ! he has his finger over 

a round hole on one side of it. What cart it be? 

Put the stick in a glass jar, John, take away your finger, 

and let us see if anything will come out of the hole. 

Ah, see! there comes a little f>^AK 
shining, coal-black head, and now 
out pops, in a state of great ex- 
citement, ¡ª who ? 
Madam Bumble? 

May says it does 
not look quite like Bumble, although it resembles her. 

No ; and the more you look at it, the more you feel 
sure it is not a bumble (^ \ bee.- For one thing, do 
you not remember what |r^^ a long face Bumblebee 
has ? It is just like this, V^f long and narrow. Do 
you not think this long face makes her look rather 
solemn and wise? 


This new bee has a round little face, and its 
black abdomen is hard and shining, with no 
hairs on it. See, the abdomen lacks the black 
and yellow furry coat of our bumblebee. 

How excited it^ is ! 

Yes, John; it is a carpenter bee, and it made the 
round hole in the stick. 

These bees get their name because they work in wood. 

That round, strong head is supplied with very power- 
ful jaws, and with these jaws our little friend bites bits 
out of hard wood. We find these holes in dead branches, 
and often in the beams and boards of houses. 

John has split open the stick with his 
strong knife, and you can see the 
channel the little workman has 
excavated. She will some- 
times make a channel several ^^|^^^^ inches long 
in the hardest of wood. You^^^^ can imagine the 
mischief these bees often do ¡ö in countries where 
they are very abundant. Indeed, I have seen a house in 
the South quite ruined by them. 

May asks why they do it. 

Well, May, the carpenter bee is not like the honeybee 
or the bumblebee in its habits. 

It is not a "social bee"; it does not live in large 
communities in which all help to do the work. 







This bee lives alone and makes its own nest. There 
iire never any workers to help it. So we call it a 
" solitary bee." 

This little bee, with no hive full of workers to depend 
upon, must find a safe nest for her progeny. Now can 
you guess why she makes these channels in the heart 
of the wood ? 

Yes, indeed ; it is in order that she may have a safe 
place to rear her young. 



Her Nest 

Look at the hind leg of Madam Carpenter Bee. 
MoUie says it looks like the little brush with which 
her mother cleans the lamp chimneys. 

That little black brush serves her instead 
of a basket for carrying pollen. 
=^, _ Yes; she manages to attach to her 
leg-brushes good big loads of pollen, mixed 
with honey, and home she goes to deposit it. 
When she has ^placed a lump about the size of a bean 
in the bottom of her tunnel, she lays an egg on it and 
then builds a partition of sawdust and sahva in front 
of it. The sawdust she makes herself, biting the wood. 
Away she goes, faithful little mother, and gathers 
another limip of pollen upon which she also lays an 








egg, and seals up the end "as before. She continues in 
this way until she has her tunnel quite filled with little 
compartments, each containing an egg and pollen enough 
to feed a larva. 

Nell wants to know why she separates the little com- 
partments with partitions of sawdust. 

I suspect it is in order that these voracious larvaB will 
not eat more than their share of the pollen. Each one has 
its own supply and with that it must be satisfied. 

When the eggs have hatched and the 
larvae have eaten all there is to eat, 
then each one 

spins itself 
a little cocoon 
within which it becomes a 
pupa. The egg that was lowest down in the gallery 
was laid first. Now what will happen if it gets ready 
to come out first as a full-grown carpenter bee ? 

How in the world can it get past all those other larvae 
and the partitions ? 

May says that perhaps it bites another hole out 
through the side of the stick. 

But it could not do that in the beam of a house. 

No, Nature has attended to this matter ; and strange 
to say, the last-laid egg is the first to become a perfect 
bee. 








It easily finds its way out through its sawdust parti- 
tion and through the entrance hole. 

Then No. 2 bites through its sawdust partition, 
crawls out through the empty cell of No. 1, and so 
on until all are out. 

There are a great many carpenter bees flying about 
in some parts of the South, and they have a funny way 
of poising in the air and then suddenly darting off with 
tremendous rapidity. 

It is only the female that has brushes 
' on the hind legs. She alone carries pollen. 
Tliere are male carpenters, or drones, but 
no workers. 

The carpenter bees do not live in com- 
munities like the bumblebees ; 
they are solitary in their habits 
and so there is no need of 
workers. 
Sting ? Well, I guess they can sting ! 
But they will not trouble you unless 
you trouble them. Queen bees never 
like to sting, and drones cannot. 






The Masons 

Way down South, where the houses are often made of 
logs chinked with clay, and where they have chimneys 
made of stones and mortar, one often sees the clay and 
mortar riddled with round holes, 
and bees constantly going in 
and out of them. Some- 
times you might imagine 
there was a swarm 
located somewhere in 
the walls of the house the 

bees go in and out in such large numbers. No, they 
do not sting the people who live in the house; they 
attend to their own affairs, flying straight to the holes 
in the walls which they have made themselves. Because 
they work in mortar or in banks of hard earth they are 
called mason bees. 

They are solitary bees that live very much like the 
carpenter bees, and you can imagine that they are a 
nuisance where they exist in large numbers. 



The Miners 

John says we must not sit down on this pleasant bank. 
Oh, yes ! we now see why. 

If we were to sit down here, we should close up the 
front doors to a great many homes. 

See all these little holes in the ground. And see who 
are going in and out of them. 
Yes, May ; the little owners of these 
^ underground nests are bees, but you 
need not run, for they have no desire 
to sting you. 

I do not believe they would sting even if you sat on 
the entrance to their nests, but they would be very much 
troubled, poor little mothers. For that is what they are, 
¡ª little mother bees. They have dug these holes, and 
are now busy storing them with pollen, which they bring 
home from the flowers. 

What, John, ¡ª you do not see any pollen on their 
legs as they go in ? 

That is because they do not carry pollen on their legs. 
They have another method of transporting it. If you 
were to look at the under side of the abdomen, you would 
find it covered with long collecting hairs, and when the 
bee goes into its nest these hairs are covered thick with 
pollen. 





No; you cannot see the pollen load on these busy 
miners unless you catch them. See how quickly they 
pop into their holes. 

See ! there goes one. 

No, indeed; they are not ^^ social" bees, although 
they like to build their nests so close together. Each 
bee has its own nest and no other bee helps to make it. 

These pretty bees dig a hole in the ground by taking 
out the earth, bit by bit, in their jaws. They do not 
make a single tube like our carpenter, but when they 
have sunk their main shaft they form side passages, 
each of which ends in a pocket. In these little 
pockets the mother bee places the pollen and 
lays an egg on each mass of it. 

Some of these little bees have long tongues 
like the honeybees and some have short tongues, 
but as they do not collect honey to store up, the 
length of the tongue is not of much consequence, 
as long as they are able to get enough to eat. 

May says she should think the ants and other 
insects would crawl down and get the pollen and 
eat the larvse of the miner bees. 

No, May; our bee is too careful a mother for that. As 
soon as she has stocked her pockets with pollen and laid 
her eggs, she fills in the opening to the gallery with dirt 
through which the young bees have to dig their way out. 



^^t' 








Rose-Leaf Blankets 

Perhaps the cunningest of these bee 

, homes is made by a little bee that bores 

into the stems of shrubs and wraps 

its masses of pollen in pieces cut 

from rose leaves. 

There is a rosebush over there on which 

these little ones have been at work. 

Let us see who will be the first to find 
a leaf cut by the bees. 
Ah! here comes Nell, the first to find the leaf. You 
did well, Nell; there are four of these leaflets from which 
our pretty bee has cut her nursery blankets. 
And now you shall see the nursery itself. 
Are they not dainty cradles? You can 
plainly see the rose leaves wrapped about the 
pollen. 

There is a bee even daintier than this one, 
for she takes flower petals in which to wrap 
her pollen. 

You will certainly be able to find the solitary bees 
if you look, and it is well worth while to watch their 
cunning ways. 

There are a great many kinds of solitary bees in the 
world. 








Lady Vespa 

John says he has found a 
paper house so small that we 
could carry it in one hand and 
yet not one of us would dare 
touch it* 

We can guess whose house it 
is. It is the home of Madam 
Wasp that you have found. 

Ned says that it isn't a 
wasps' nest but a hornets' nest 
that John means. 

But, Ned, a hornet is only one kind of wasp. 

You remember there are several kinds of bees. Well, 
there are also several kinds of wasps. 

Like the bees, the wasps are social or solitary. 

Hornets and yellow jackets are social wasps. They 
always live in communities. 

May wants to know if the wasps are not very much 
like the bees, for she has been looking at some of the 


hornets that John caught and has with him in a box 
with a net over the top. 

Yes, indeed, May; they belong to the same order. 
Who can remember its name? 

Nell is the first to say it. Yes, it is the Hymenoptera. 

We find the wings and the sting of the wasp like the 
wings and sting of the bee, differing very slightly in 
unimportant details. There is one thing about the 
wings though that we will be sure to notice; that is, 
they look so narrow when folded. 

This is not because they are narrow, but because they 
are folded lengthwise, like a fan, when not in use. 

els to legs, we will look in vain for pollen baskets 
^ on the hind legs of the wasps. The wasps do 

j I not live on pollen, so of course they do not need 
V baskets in which to carry it. 

Yes, John; they do eat honey, but they are not 
wholly dependent upon it, and their tongues are 
short and flat, so we never see them on those flowers 
that have long tubes. 

Our big black and white hornet is the largest of our 
social wasps, and quite a formidable antagonist it is with 
its large, strong sting. 

The yellow jackets are like the hornets excepting that 
their bodies are black and yellow instead of black and 
white, and they do not grow quite so large. 




Yes, May; the hornets and some of the yellow jackets 
build their nests out of doors, often hanging them to 
the tree limbs or under the eaves of houses; but some 
species of yellow jackets, like the bumblebees, build 
their nests underground. 




Paper Houses 

The nest, as you see, is not made of wax. 
Yes, MoUie; it is made of gray paper. 
Nell wants to know if they sweat out the paper, as 
the bees sweat out the wax. 





No, Nell, they do not. They make the paper in quite 
another way. 

The wasps were the very first paper makers in the 
world, and man has just learned to make his paper out 
of the materials the wasps use. 

Who knows what is used to-day for making the paper 
our newspapers are printed on? 

Yes; such paper is made from wood pulp, ¡ª wood 
ground up and mixed with certain substances and 
pressed into paper. 

My dears, that is just what the wasps did thousands 
of years ago. They bit out the pieces from dead wood 
and chewed it with their sticky saliva until it could be 
spread out and would harden. 

You can see the wasps in the summer time biting 
out bits of wood and then flying home with them rolled 
into a ball which they carry under their necks. This 
little lump of wood pulp they spread out into paper 
which quickly dries and hardens. 

John wants to know when the hornets make their 
nests. 

The nest is started in the early spring by one hornet. 

Yes, May; this is the queen hornet that has been 
hiding away somewhere over winter. 

In this respect the wasps' nest is like the bumble- 
bees'. 






"¡ö"y^ The large queen wasp collects wood pulp 

^ ""^ ' and makes with it a little group of four or 
five cells shaped like honeycomb 
cells. These she speedily covers 
with a dome of paper. And there the little 
home hangs, for all the world like a paper 
bell with a group of cells for a clapper. 

Young Wasps 

You can guess what Madam Vespa puts into those 
paper cells. 

No, indeed ; she does not fill them with food first and 
then lay an egg in the food, as the solitary bees do ; she 
behaves like the honeybees in the way she lays her eggs 
and cares for her young. 

In each empty cell she lays an egg, and when the eggs 
hatch good Mother Vespa has all the little larvaB to feed. 

What food do you suppose she carries home to these 
ravenous youngsters? The country butcher will tell you 
that the wasps steal his meat. Indeed, they do. They 
bite out bits of meat and fly home with them and put 
them into the hungry little mouths. They also like 
fruit and sugar, and they chew up insects to 
feed the young. Yes, they are omnivorous, 
which means they eat both animal and vegetable food 






Yes, May; young wasps are as hard to bring up as 
young birds. 

They have to be fed one by one by the mother wasp, 
and they have to be kept warm. 

But it does not take them many days to grow, and 
then you know what happens. 

Yes, May ; they change into pupaB. Just before this 
happens they spin their cocoon and shut themselves 
into their gray paper cradles by a pretty white cap of 
silk over the open end. 

Mollie says she should think they would fall out of 
the cells that hang mouth down. 

Sometimes they do, but they have a way of clinging 
fast, so that this fatal accident does not often happen. 
Yes, John ; if they fall out they perish, 
as the mother wasp is not able to put them 
back again. 
Well, after a few more days you know what 
happens next. These youngsters, changed into perfect 
wasps, bite open the silken cap they put on their cells, 
and out they come. 

Yes, Mollie; you are right. Out of these first cells 
come worker wasps, and when there are enough workers 
to attend to everything the queen no longer goes abroad. 
She stays at home and lays the eggs, and the workers 
enlarge the nest and feed the young. 





the social wasps ^5 

Enlarging the Nest 

John says he does n't see how it 
is possible to enlarge the nest after 
the outer cover has been put on. 

The wasps have solved this prob- 
lem, though not in a very eco- 
nomical manner. 

Outside the first cover, and a 
little space from it, they build 
another. Then they bite away the inside one. . 

Yes, May ; it is like building a house and finding it 
too small, and adding to it by building walls and a 
roof about it, and then knocking out the inside walls 
and roof. 

Nell says she should think their house would be in 
confusion all the time. 

Not so much so as our houses would be, if built by 
their plan. For paper is easy to work with, and the 
wasps are very quick and very neat, carrying out every 
little scrap and dropping it on the ground. 
Here is a picture of half a nest about 
I K^^'^k ^1^^^^ ^^^ walls have been built. 
V\'m^^ Rapidly the nest grows, and the 
outer wall is kept quite thick and 
made of many layers to protect 






the treasures within from wet weather and also from 
sudden changes of temperature. 

When the paper comb is as large around as the 
largest nest could hold, it still contains too few cells to 
accommodate the rapidly increasing family. 

If you examine a nest, you will quickly 
how this difficulty is overcome. 
\s the nest increases in diameter 
it also increases in length, 
and below the first round 
paper comb is suspended 
another, and then another 
and another. 

So the work goes on, the 

inner walls being constantly 

torn down, the outer ones 

made, and new combs added 

until the nest reaches the for- 

idable proportions it sometimes 

les. 

You can imagine that the wasps are very 
easily excited when any one comes near their fragile 
tenement; and as they have strong and effective 
weapons always at hand, they are ready at a moment's 
notice to sting you whenever they can find an un- 
protected spot. 





Yes, indeed ; they, too, have a poison sac attached to 
their sting. As a rule wasps will not sting unless mo- 
lested, and like the bees they learn to know their friends. 

Indeed, wasps have been tamed so that their owner 
could handle their nest, and cut it open and look into 
it when he pleased without any danger of being stung. 

But I do not advise anybody to try this. 

Queens, Workeks, and Drones 

Thus far our nest has a queen and many workers. 
Who can guess what happens next ? 

Yes, John ; towards the end of the summer the wasps 
build some large cells around the outer edge of the 
combs, and they often make the lowest comb entirely 
of these large cells. 

Of course you all know what come out of them. 

Yes ; out of some come large drones, 
and out of others come young queens. ^--^ 

There are no bitter feelings between 
the queens of a wasps' nest. They all live happily 
together imtil cold weather comes, when all leave the 
nests, the queens to hide away until the following 
spring, the drones and workers to perish. 

Yes ; it is safe to take a hornets' nest into the house 
after cold weather has come. 





Some say they have found live wasps in the nest then, 
but it is not usually the case. 

Probably the nests are too fragile to bear the winter 
storms, and the queens prefer a safer hiding place. 

Yes, Ned; the wasp drones are stingless, and there- 
fore harmless. You can recognize them, as you can the 
drones of the bees, by their long-drooping 
antennae, their large size, big wings, 
and square bodies. 

Ned says he thinks the wasps are 
as interesting as the bees. 

May says they are not so pretty 
and they do not give us honey. 
But surely they are interesting 
enough. 
And do not forget that they were the 
very first paper makers. 




Lady Polistes 

Ned says he has found a 
nest just started. It has r 
outer cover, and is hang- 
ing to a twig on that bush over 
there. Let us go and see. 

Ah, Ned! this is not our friend Vespa. The wasp 
that made this nest has a long, slender, brown body 






with a yellow line around it. See ! there she comes, a 
dainty little lady who does not look at all fierce. 

No, this is not a hornet nor a yellow jacket. 

It is our little friend Polistes, and she does not put 
an outer covering about her home. 

It is a very small and fragile affair, you see, when 
compared to the stately abode of Vespa. 

But Polistes manages to make it answer her purpose. 

She is a pretty little wasp and very easily tamed. 

You could go at night and cut off the twig with her 
house on it and put it in a box and take it home, and 
Polistes would soon become very friendly. 

Yes, indeed; the little nest, as you can see, is made 
of paper, and this Polistes collects as Vespa does. 

The story of her home is about the same as that of 
Vespa' s, and the drones, which come out in the fall, have 
white faces. You often see them sitting on rocks sun- 
ning themselves. 

Polistes sometimes comes into the house and often 
builds her nest under the roof of a shed ; indeed, 
we seldom find her in an unprotected place like 
this bush. Sometimes there will be a great many i 
of these little nests close together. 

You need have no fear of Polistes, for 
unless you actually take hold of her or touch 
her nest she will not sting you. 











. Yes, indeed; her wings lock together like the wings 
~**"^ of the bees and like those of Vespa, and 

when not flying she folds them together 
lengthwise like a fan, thus making them 
look very long and narrow. 
There are a good many species of these 
little paper-comb makers in the world, and 
they are always pretty and gentle and interesting to 
watch. It is surprising how many cunning things they 
do. Watch them when you get a chance and see if 
they are not wise and clever little housekeepers. 







Little Friend Mud Dauber 

What do you think? Ned says he 
has caught Polistes making her nest 
of mud. 

We must attend to that, Ned. 
Let us go to the shed where Ned 
saw this strange sight. 

Ah! there is the nest, but where, 
oh where, is Polistes? 

Here comes the owner of those 
mud caves. But do you call this wasp 
Polistes? Look at the long-waisted, yellow-legged 

dame! Surely that is not our 
little brown Polistes. 
No, Ned, this is not 

Polistes. It is not a social 

"^ wasp at all ; it does not live in communities 
of queens, workers, and drones. 

This is a solitary wasp. It lives alone and builds its 
nest aU by itself. 


This is the mud dauber. 
You can easily guess why it has this name. 
Yes, it makes its nest of mud. 
Let us watch this one and see how she does it. 
See, she has flown away, but not far. She is 
resting by the wet place near the bam pimip. 
And see! she is digging out mud and rolling 
^ it into a ball. 

Yes, Nell; she seems to be standing on her head in 
her eagerness. 

Now she is flying back to the shed with a little ball 
of mud held close imder her head. 

We will go, too, and see what she does with it. 
There, she is spreading it out over that unfinished 
cell, ¡ª and what a loud buzzing she keeps up! 

Yes, May ; it is as though she were singing at her work. 
Some of the cells you see are entirely closed up. 
What do you suppose is in them? 

John says he knows; he broke one open the other day 
and it was full of spiders. 

MoUie wants to know what spiders were doing in a 
wasps' nest. 

If we were to wait and watch our little mud dauber 
long enough, we should easily find out. 

When her mud cell is finished, all but closing up one 
end, she goes hunting. 





She does not provision her children's larder with pol- 
len and honey, but with fresh insects or spiders that she 
stings for the purpose. 

No; she does not sting her victims to death. She 
merely paralyzes them so that they remain quiet. 

On the body of one of them she lays an egg. When 
the cell is full of insects or spiders, she seals up the 
end and leaves her offspring to its fate. 

You can imagine what now happens. 

The egg hatches and the wasp larva at 
once begins the consumption of the spiders, 
or whatever the careful mother has provided. 
You see the creatures being alive remain fresh, 
so that the larva has fresh food all the time. 

By the time it has eaten up everything in 
the cell it has grown and molted until it is I 
ready to become a pupa. 

This it does, sometimes remaining in the pupa 
state all winter and coming out in the spring. 

Do you remember what we said awhile ago about the 
sting of the bee having been originally used for some 
other pm-pose than defense ? 

Yes, John says he guesses now what that sting means. 
It was first used as a hunter uses his spear, ¡ª to secure 
prey for food. It is believed that long ago the bee also 
used its sting to secure its prey, and that in course of 








time it learned to live on pollen and honey, preserv- 
ing the sting as a weapon of defense. 

No ; there are no workers among the mud daubers, 
¡ª only queens and drones. 

It is great fim to watch these little masons at 
work, and they are so gentle that one can 
stand quite close to them without any 
danger of being stung. 

Yes, May; their wings are narrow, but 
they do not fold them fanlike; only the 
social wasps fold the wings that way. 

Yes, the wasps are flesh eaters as a 
rule. They like insects or meat, although 
they also eat honey and are fond of fruit 
juices and all sweet things ; but they feed 
their young mostly on animal food. The 
solitary wasps, that shut their infants up in 
a roomful of food and let them help them- 
selves, always provide animal food, ¡ª 
never pollen, so far as I know. 

Yes; there are many species of the mud 
^^^^n^ daubers, and a very common one is bright 
blue in color. 

Yes ; I am sure you have all seen this 

beautiful, shining, blue wasp. And most of us 

have seen a pretty black mud dauber that builds a long 







tunnel of mud and divides it into cells, as the wood 
borers divide their tunnels. 

If you take a mud dauber's nest into the house in the 
fall, the wasps will come out quite early in the spring; 
and if you touch them gently with your finger and feed 
them honey or candy as 
soon as they bite the cap 
off, before they are even out of 
the cells, they will become perfectly tame, and 
will not sting you unless you hurt them. 

The Diggers and Miners 

May wants us to come and see a wasp dig a hole in 
the ground. 

See ! she digs with her fore feet like a dog and kicks 
the dirt out behind her. She has nearly disappeared. 
What do you think she will do when she gets 
her hole completed ? 

Yes, she will provision it. She will go 
on many a hunting expedition for 
caterpillars or other insects 

pleasing to her taste, and vihen^^^^^^^ii^^^y.^^^ 
she has gathered her store of food, '^^^ "^, 

andr tucked it away in the bottom of her hole, she will 
lay an egg on it and then close up the hole. 








The digger wasps are very, very interesting, 
and often they are very large and handsome. 

You must watch them and find out for your- 
selves the clever things they do. 

Yes f there are wasps that bore into wood to 
make their nests. 

Sometimes you will find a dried elder twig 
full of little cells placed end to end, as the f. 
carpenter bee places its cells, but these little ones belong 
not to Madam Carpenter but to a little miner wasp. 

There are a great many wasps in this country, and 
they are well worth watching. 

One handsome fellow that we occasionally see is by 
most people believed to be an ant. It is called the velvet 
ant because of the velvety fur that clothes its body. 

What, May, ¡ª you have seen it ? It is bright red and 
runs very fast ? 

Yes; that is the velvet ant, and it is the female 
which we see running so swiftly along the ground. 
She has no wings. 

What, May, ¡ª you never succeeded in catching her ? 
Tt 19 fortunate for you that you did not. 
My dears, if you catch this brilliant wasp 
in your fingers, you will be sorry 
for a long time after, for she 




J?^ 



has a most formidable sting. 




Running here, running there, running every- 
where, are the ants. 

We cannot walk in the country in the 
summer time without seeing them. 

Yes, John; they have been studied a 
great deal, and yet we do not know so 
very much about them. You see, they 
have their nests underground, so that 
it is usually rather hard to 
study them. 

The ants 
belong to 
bees, ¡ª to 

May is 
that when 

But 
We have 





the same family as the 
the Hymenoptera. 
wondering how we know 
they have no wings, 
they do have wings. May. 
often seen winged ants 
\ flying about in vast 
numbers in the summer. 
Yes, MoUie; they appear 
suddenly some day and cover 
everything ; then they as suddenly disappear. 


Now where do you suppose these flying 
"^ants come from? 

Yes, out of the nests. 
Down underground in the ants' nests 
these winged members of the family appear 
among coimtless numbers that have no wings. 
The ants that never have wings are the workers. 
Yes, May; like the bee and wasp workers, the ant 
workers are imperfect females. 

Now you can guess what the winged ants are. 
Yes ; they are the males and females, the fathers and 
mothers of the community. 

There are a great many species of ants, more than we 
could study in a whole summer, or in a dozen summers. 
Some of them live in the ground, making burrows in 
which the eggs are laid and the young reared. 

The Larv^ and Pup^ 

The ants take very good care of their young. As soon 
as the eggs hatch the busy workers feed the helpless 
larvae. These larvae look very much like bee larvae. 

Yes, they are little white grubs without legs or 
wings. When they are ready to pupate, which means, 
you know, to become pupae, many species spin for 
themselves a neat little cocoon. 







When an ant nest is broken into, the ants hastily 
catch up these cocoons and attempt to escape with them. 

Many people think these cocoons are the ants' eggs, 
but the eggs are so tiny that they are seen only by 
those who look very carefully for them. 

No, indeed, MoUie ; they are not as large as the head 
of a pin. 

Some ants' nests have winding galleries where the 
nurseries are located and where food is stored, for the 
ants, like the bees, live through the winter. 



The Queen 

Now about the winged ants. 

They fly out at certain times, many 
colonies together, and mate, after 
which the male ants, like the drones, 
die, and the females return to the 
nests. 

When the female goes back 
into the nest her flying days are over. She 
has no further use for her wings, so what do you think 
she does ? She pulls them off and leaves them outside. 

The female is very much larger than the workers, and 
in this way you can always recognize her. She lays 
the eggs for the whole colony, and unlike the queen 







bee, she does not hate the other queens ; so that 
several are sometimes found livmg happily together 
in the same nest. 

Sometimes a number of workers will take a young 
queen and start a new nest. With some species the 
young queen starts her own nest without any help, the 
first workers that hatch out quickly relieving her of all 
responsibility. 

The Ants' Cows 

Yes, the ants do many remarkable things. You have 
all heard about their fondness for the aphides, or plant 
lice, which are sometimes called the ants' cows. 

Ants are fond of sweets, and so they befriend the 
aphides for the honeydew which they afford. 

Wherever there are aphides on the plants one is 
pretty sure to find ants, and the ants may be seen 
caressing the aphides with their antennae in order, so 
it is said, to coax them to give forth the honeydew. 

Some species of ants take care of the aphides, driv- 
ing off their enemies and even carrying them to new 
feeding places when the old ones are exhausted, just 
as a herdsman takes his cattle to new pastures when 
the old fail. 

. When winter approaches, these wise ants carry the 
aphid eggs into their o\vn warm nests and take care of 







them until they hatch the following spring, when the ants 

carry the young aphides out and put them on the leaves. 

Yes, May ; all this is truly very wonderful. The ants 

do so many wise things that they fill us with amazement. 





In some species there are different kinds of 
workers, ¡ª small ones for general work and 
large ones with enormous heads that are called |> 
soldier ants, and that are believed to fight ^~" 
for the colony and to protect it. 

Yes, it is quite true. May, that some ants 
keep slaves. There is a long, reddish-brown 
or yellowish ant that does this, and the ants 
captured are black. 

Out sallies the marauding army until the 
nest of the poor black ants has been ap- 
proached, when forth rush the blacks, and 
there is a terrific combat in which the 
ants tear off each other's legs and even 
heads, which they leave strewn on the 
field of battle. Their weapons are not 
guns and swords, but their powerful jawa, 

If the attacking army conquers, it enters the 
nest of the defeated army and triumphantly carries 






off all the pupaB and larvaB it finds there. These are 
taken home and carefully raised, for they are destined 
to do the whole work of the colony for their masters. 

The young slave ants, thus brought up in a strange 
nest, do not leave it, but become very warmly attached 
to their masters, for whom they wilHngly labor. 

Some species of ants have depended so long and so 
entirely upon the services of their slaves that they have 
lost the power even of feeding themselves, and starve to 
death, with food within reach, unless a slave is at hand 
to put it in their mouths. 

They have retained only one power, and that is to 

fight and 
^g^=^ capture 
slaves. 

Wars and Other Occupations 

Oh, yes ; ants are great fighters, and two colonies will 
often go to war where there are no slaves involved. 

These ant wars are sometimes very formidable affairs, 
lasting many hours, or even two or three days, and 
involving thousands upon thousands of slain and 
wounded. 

Yes, John ; it is true that some species of ants in hot 
countries plant and raise their own grain, and some 







have gardens in their underground nests in which they 
grow a sort of plant that serves them as food. 

Some build tunnels or passages from their nests 
to their himting or collecting grounds, so they 
can run safely back and forth with no danger 
of being molested by enemies. 

Some go in armies after provisions and ran- 
sack the people's houses from top to bottom, 
leaving nothing behind that they can carry 
off, ¡ª that is, nothing good to eat. When 
the people see an army of ants coming, they 
catch up the baby, cover tightly or take 
away what food they wish to keep, and 
leave the ants to " clean house," which they 
very thoroughly do, killing and carrying 
away all the cockroaches and other trouble- 
some insects that may have taken up their 
abode there. 

Nell says she has heard that some ants 
carry parasols. 

Well, you can call them parasols if you 
like. There are certain Mexican ants that 
go up certain trees and bite off the leaves, which their 
comrades down below collect and carry home over 
their heads, reminding one of a procession with raised 
umbrellas. They store the leaves in their nests. 






Yes, the legs of the ants are like those of the bees 
and wasps. They have the antenna cleaners, like the 
bees and wasps, but of course they have no baskets or 
pollen brushes on their legs, for they have no use for 

such implements. 

They eat a great many things 
-and use both animal and vege- 
table food, which they carry 
^"^ home in their jaws. They 
have a way of telling each other when they find a piece 
of food too heavy for one ant to lift. Who has not 
seen several of these wise little sisters tugging away at 
one load, which together they pull into the nest ? 

They have remarkable brains, though it is impossible 
for us to know just how muqh thinking they do. 

Their antennae are very sensitive, and they know each 
other and seem affectionate. 

Bees and wasps recognize members from the same 
hive and fight strangers ; but the bees and wasps do not 
caress each other as the ants do, and if a bee or a w.asp 
gets hurt its friends do not try to help it. 

But the ants ! how tenderly they clean off an unfor- 
tunate comrade and care for it ! 

When they meet they touch each other with their 
antennae, and in this way seem to convey messages. 
Yes ; they send out scouts when they are ready to go 





on a slave-hunting expedition or on a y marauding ex- 
pedition for food J so when the ^^..^¡ªtime comes all 
is ready, and / ^^.^^^^^^ ^^^ army pours 

forth, going / Jli:^^^ straight to the right 

place with J^r out losing time or wandering aim- 
lessly about. 
Ants behave in very curious ways, and 
do many things that we cannot under- 
stand; it has even been supposed that they 
play games and dance about to express their 
happiness. . 
They often use dead insects as food, and if an 
unfortunate ant from another colony gets into 
the wrong nest it may be attacked, slain, and 
stored away for future consumption. 

But if one of their own number dies, you will 
see no such conduct. The dead comrade will be 
carried respectfully out, the bearer sometimes ac- 
companied by other ants, and laid down a long 
distance from the nest. They never eat the mem- 
bers of their own colony. 

Yes, indeed ; the ants are probably the wisest 
and most remarkable of all the insects. There 
are a great many species, and probably there 
are more ants creeping about the earth than any 
other kind of insect. 






No, not all ants live in the ground ; some live under 
the bark of trees, and some in dead wood or in the 
walls of houses. 

They are all sizes, ¡ª from the tiny little yellow ants 
so small that we can hardly see them, to the enormous 
black or red-and-black ants that sometimes get into 
our pantries. They are a very great nuisance to us, but 
there are so many of them and they are so well pro- 
tected in their homes undergroimd that it is impossible 
to exterminate them. 

In warm countries the ants sometimes make the life 
of man a burden, or even drive him away altogether. 



Mound Builders 

Yes, Ned ; some ants build large mounds 

with galleries running all through 

them, ¡ª very wonderful 

structures indeed, 

and very terrible 

for anybody to sit 

upon. For the 

ants can bite 

quite severely 

with their little 

jaws, and, like 





the bees and wasps, some of them have stings. Indeed, 
people have lost their lives from accidentally stumbling 
into one of these great ant-hills and being instantly 
covered with the angry insects. 

There are some very curious ants, in Mexico I think, 
that build mounds. Certain of the workers are modified 
to form, ¡ª guess what ? 

No, not soldiers with enormous heads. You could 
never, never guess. They are modified to form honey jars. 

The other workers gather a sort of honey and feed 
these accommodating bottles that cling fast to the roof 
and store away the honey until the abdomen becomes 
little more than a skinful of it, and as large as a currant. 
Later, when the honey season is over, the living bottles 
give up their contents to their comrades. 

John says he has heard that the people sometimes 
gather these honey ants and have them for dessert, 
eating them as we do ripe grapes. 

There, there. May ; you know you are not obliged to 
eat any of them. 

White Ants 

Ned wants to know if white ants are the same as the 
other ants. 

No, indeed, Ned ; the white ants, or termites, as they 
are sometimes called, are not ants at all. 







They belong to quite a different family, one more 
nearly related to the dragon flies than to the ants. 

Sometimes in the woods we find imder a stone a col- 
lection of grayish white little creatures that remind us 
a little of ants, though if we look at them carefully we 
will instantly see they are not. They are the termites, 
and they have the name " white ants " because their 
habits are so similar to those of the true ants. 

They have winged males and females and wingless 
workers, and live in communities and often do much 
damage. We are not much troubled by them in the 






North, but in tropical countries they are a terrible pest, 
destrojdng the walls and beams of houses, and, in fact, 
anjrthing made of wood, into which they bore, eating 
out everything but an outer shell. 






John says he has brought us some apples, but he fears 
^(, we will not enjoy their flavor. 

See ! the rogue has some oak apples, 
/or oak balls, or galls; you can take 
your choice of names. 

No, indeed ; we shall not care to 
eat them. They are not apples at 
all, ¡ª just little cradles. 

This is how it happened. A cer- 
tain insect laid an egg on the oak 
the egg hatched the little white, leg- 
to eat, and as soon as it began to 
eat, the skin of the leaf began to change and grow 
into this strange form. 

If we open one of these galls, we shall find a hard 
kernel at the center and the space between filled with 
a spongy material. If we crack the hard kernel, we 
shall find at its center either a fat little larva or a 
hard, brown, round, little pupa. 

The maker of these strange growths on the oak trees 
is a little insect that looks somewhat like a fly, but is 

260 




leaf, and when 
less larva began 





really closely related to the bees, wasps, and ants, ¡ª like 
them, belonging to the Hymenoptera. It is called the 
gallfly. There are a number of these gallflies that 
produce different kinds of galls. 

The galls on certain oaks that grow in Asia are quite 
useful, being frequently employed in the manufacture 
of ink. 

Oh, yes ; there are a great many kinds of galls on 
different plants, and a good many of them are caused 
by gallflies, though there are many kinds caused by 
other insects. 

No; the gallfly does not look much like a bee or 
a wasp, but if you were to examine it carefully you 
would discover that it really is very similar to them 
in structure. 

The truth is, the gallfly is one of those common 
insects that we know very well by sight, but concerning 
whose real nature we are usually quite ignorant. 

I quite agree with John, who thinks that the very 
best thing we get from studjdng the insects is the 
knowledge that they are really like all other animals. 

Yes, they differ in details, but all living things are 
essentially alike, ¡ª all need air and food, and all are 
able to employ their powers in like manner. 







My ! What is that ? 
I don't wonder you ask. 

Of all the insects we have seen, none equals this 
with its long streamers. 

That, my dears, is an ichneumon fly. 
Oh, no, it is not a fly at all; it belongs 
to the ^^ Hjonenoptera. 

What do^. you suppose those long streamers are 
for ? It is V^ hard to believe, but they are the ovi- 
positor ; and ^ slender as they are, the sharp point 
at the tip of one ^ of them can bore into the hardest 
wood. When egg- \\ laying time arrives Madam 
Ichneumon searches \\ about on a tree trunk until 
she thinks she has\\ located the burrow where in 



the wood of the tree 
tail, which is another 
There Madam Ichneu 
parts of the long oviposi 
her body, braces her long 
ceeds to bore a hole into the 
the burrow of the homtail 




lives the larva of a hom- 
of the Hymenoptera. 
mon shuts together the 
tor, curves it up over 
legs firmly, and pro- 
tree, as far as 
When she 





has bored into the burrow she deposits an egg there, and 

when the larva hatches it creeps about until it has found 

the homtail larva, when it proceeds to suck the blood 

of its hapless victim. When the ichneumon larva 

has reached its full size it transforms into a pupa^ 

and emerging, still within 

the. tree, it finds its way out 

through any convenient hole^ 

or if there is none, it bites its 

way through to the outside 

world. 

Only the females have these 
long streamers, and sometimes the 
long ovipositor is the cause of Madam Ichneumon's 
death, for it gets so tightly wedged into the tree trunk 
that she cannot pull it out again. 

Yes, indeed, John; the larva of the ichneumon is a 
parasite. It is parasitic on the larvae of another insect. 
These parasites are very valuable, killing as they do the 
tree borers. 

There are a great many ichneumons, though most of 
them are small in size, and the parasitic habits of the 
larvae make them the friend of man. 

Some ichneumons lay their eggs on caterpillars or 
other insects injurious to fruit or grain, and the larvae 
live inside their insect host. 






The host, May, is the insect that entertains the para- 
site, although very much against its will. 

The host caterpillar in some cases spins its cocoon and 
then dies, and the parasite makes its cocoon within the 
cocoon of its host. 

Again, certain ichneumon larvae live in the caterpillar 
until they have attained their growth, when they come 

out and spin their little silken 
^^f)f)/ii\{)i\. y cocoons on the back of the cater- 






pillar, which now soon perishes, 
having been literally devoured 
by its iminvited guests. 

We sometimes see these poor caterpillars walking 
about covered with cocoons. 

Even the aphides have their ichneumons, and tiny 
things they are, as you can imagine. 

Bees and wasps and indeed many kinds of insects 
are the victims of the many species of ichneumons that 
abound in the world. Some of these ichneumons are 
brilliant in coloring, and when you see a glittering, 
green fly, with long antennae that constantly vibrate, 
hunting along the path or on the side of a house, you 
may be pretty sure it is an ichneumon looking for a 
wasp in whose nest it can lay its egg. 



John has brought us a homtail, and he wonders if it 
is the one that burrows in trees and into whose burrow 
the big ichneumon lays its eggs. 

Yes, John, it is the very same. You see the long, 
hard horn at the end of the abdomen. Well, that is the 
boring instrument, and a powerful one it is for its size. 

Yes; like the ovipositor of the ichneumon, that of 
the horntail sometimes gets wedged in so tightly that 
it cannot be pulled out. 

The larvae of the homtails bore channels through the 
solid wood and are very destructive to trees. 

Yes, indeed ; the Hymenoptera is a large order, and its 
members present very different appearances and have 
very different habits. 

Yes, May ; the ovipositor is a curiously modified organ 
in the Hymenoptera. 

In the bees, wasps, and some ants it is a sting ; in the 
ichneumons it is a boring instrument for drilling holes 
in wood or piercing the bodies of insects. There is 
another family of Hymenoptera that have the oviposi- 
tor modified to form a saw, by means of which it saws 
little slits, for depositing eggs, in leaves or twigs. 




These are the sawflies, and 



great nuisances they are. If J j /Jjf^ 

Here is an enlarged picture y^ 
of the saw of one of them. 

There are two saws placed side by side, and these 
can be moved up and down. 

Yes, John ; it is only the female that has the saws, 
and so it is the mother of the family who wields this 
potent implement. 

The larva of some of the sawflies look like cater- 
pillars, only they have from twelve to sixteen prolegs, 
while true caterpillars, as you know, do not have more 
than ten, with the exception of the Flannel moths. 
Who remembers how many legs the caterpillars of 
the Flannel njoths have ? 
Yes, May; they have the large number of 
fourteen. 

You can recognize the caterpillarlike larvae 
' of the sawflies generally by their queer habit 
of turning the abdomen sideways. 






Yes, we have had a full summer and have become 
acquainted with a good many interesting insect folk. 
We have by no means become acquainted with all, nor 
do we know everything about those we have watched. 

But we have seen and learned enough to enable us to 
understand something of what we see going on about 
us in the insect world, and enough to make us interested 
in what we may afterwards read about the insect folk. 

The books and magazines will keep informing us, and, 
best of all, let us keep ^\ on looking for ourselves. 

After all. that m ^ );/ / the best way tu learn. 







