CONTENTS 



CHAPTER I. 



On Board the " Startler" 



ft 



CHAPTER II. 

Introduces more Friends ; with a few Words on the 
River Parang ,.?.,. 



CHAPTER III. 

Doctor Bolter cuues one Patient, and is left with 
Another ..?.,.. 



CHAPTER IV. 

Doctor Bolter rubs his Hands, and Captain Smithers 
looks Green ...... 



CHAPTER V. 



Up the Parang River 



CHAPTER VI. 



CHAPTER VIIL 



Tom Long's Wound , 



rAGB 
I 



7 



14 



20 



36 



How Tom Long tried the Durian , 31 



CHAPTER VII. 

How Dick related the Visit ... * 39 



44 



viii CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER IX. 

A Night Atiack, and a Misfortune . ? ? 51 



CHAPTER X. 

How Bob Roberts was not Drowned . , . 58 



CHAPTER XI. 

How Bob Roberts had a Lesson on Common Sense . 63 



CHAPTER XII. 

A Discussion upon Wounds . . ? ? 69 



CHAPTER XIII. 
An Unpleasant Interruption ? ? ? . 73 



CHAPTER XIV. 
How Bob Roberts made a Firm Friend . . , 76 



CHAPTER XV. 

How THE Sultan was put off with Words , ? 86 



CHAPTER XVI. 

How Private Sim took a Nap and found it unpleasant 94 



CHAPTER XVII. 
How Dick b-uys a Rajah, and his First Luff objects 102 



CHAPTER XVIIL 

How Bob Roberts went a Fishing . , .109 



CHAPTER XIX. 

How Bob and Old Dick finished their Day , , 113 



CONTENTS. ix 



CHAPTER XX. 

A Run after a Rajah . . . ? . iig 



CHAPTER XXI. 

How Abdullah showed the Smooth Side of his Ways 125 



CHAPTER XXII. 
The Crew of the Captain's Gig . ? . ? 131 



CHAPTER XXIII. 

How Bob Roberts and Tom Long asked for Leave . 137 



CHAPTER XXIV. 

A Jaunt in the Jungle, with an Awkward End , 141 



CHAPTER XXV. 

How Bob and Tom bagged Strange Game , ,150 



CHAPTER XXVI. 

How the two Companions were knocked off their 

ir^¡êRCH ? ? ? ¡ö ? ? > 



CHAPTER XXVII. 



^S7 



How Diplomacy worked in a Malay State ? . 165 



CHAPTER XXVin. 

How Sultan Hamet visited his Friends ? ,171 



CHAPTER XXIX. 

How Ali fell into a Trap ? , 177 



CHAPTER XXX, 

How Private Gray proved suspicious . , . 1S3 





CHAPTER XXXI. 

rxoB 

How SOME COULD GO AND SOME MUST STAY , . l36 



CHAPTER XXXI L 

How Mr Linton believed in a Precipice . ? 192 



CHAPTER XXXIIL 

Private Gray has his Orders . ? . ? 196 



CHAPTER XXXIV. 

A Hot Night on Board the " Startler " , , 204 



CHAPTER XXXV. 

How Ali made his Plans . < . , . S09 



CHAPTER XXXVI. 

At the Prison in the Woods . . ? ? ai4 



CHAPTER XXXVIL 

How Alt made a Dash for Liberty . . . 223 



CHAPTER XXXVIIL 



A Swim in the Night 



CHAPTER XXXIX. 



230 



How Ali brought News, and was not believed ? 234 



CHAPTER XL. 

How Private Gray went a Fishing . , .241 



CHAPTER XLL 

The Value of Private ?im , ? . * , 246 






CHAPTER XLII. 

FAGB 

Why Dullah came to the Isle .... 250 



CHAPTER XLIII. 

Tom Long leads a Sally Party . . , . 354 



CHAPTER XLIV. 

How Captain Smithers made Plans . ? , 259 



CHAPTER XLV. 

Through Fire and Water . ... 262 



CHAPTER XLVI. 

Shows how Bob Roberts gave a Hint, and the Malays 

GOT into Hot Water ..... 268 



CHAPTER XLVII. 

How Bob Roberts Burned the Prahu . . .277 



CHAPTER XLVHL 

Pleasant Days at the Fort . . . .285 



CHAPTER XLIX. 

How Ali went to spy out the Land . ; ? 292 



CHAPTER L. 

How Bob fished for Miss Linton . . ? 300 



CHAPTER LL 

Dealings with the Deep ... * . 303 



CHAPTER LIL 

How the Steamer went up the Right Arm of the River 307 





CHAPTER LIIL 

fAGB 

Private Sim is very Wide Awake . . . ? 313 



CHAPTER LIV. 

The End of Ali*s Mission . ? # ? 320 



CHAPTER LV. 

How THE HUNTING-PARTY FARED i ? t 326 



CHAPTER LVI. 

Doctor Bolter's Bird . . i . ? 332 



CHAPTER LVIL 

How Doctor Bolter got in a Mess . * #337 



CHAPTER LVIII. 



The Dose of Toobah 



CHAPTER LIX. 



CHAPTER LX 



Signals of Distress 



CHAPTER LXL 



340 



Like Brothers in Distress . . , , # 348 



354 



How Bob Roberts turned the Tables . ? -361 



CHAPTER LXII 

Captain Smithers proves a True Officer, and Private 

Gray a Gentleman , , , . 3^4 



CHAPTER LXni. 



The Last of It 



370 




** SENT IT OVER, AND KOB AND THE SAJLOR INTO THE STREAM. 



"? 










CHAPTER L 



ON BOARD THE " STARTLER." 



The dose of a hot day on board Her Majesty's ship "Startler," 
whose engines kept up a regular pulsation as the screw-propeller 
churned the water astern into golden and orange foam. The 
dappled sky and the rippled sea were a blaze of colour; 
crimson, scarlet, burnished copper, orange chrome, dead, and 
flashing gold, ¡ª all were there, on cloud edge and wave slope, 
mingled with purples, and greens, and blues, as the sun slowly 
descended to his rest. 

There had been a general disposition all day long to lie under 
awnings, and pant "like tired dogs," so Bob Roberts the mid- 
shipman said ; but now officers and men, in the lightest of gar- 
ments, were eagerly looking for the cool evening breeze, and 
leaning over the bulwarks, gazing at the wondrous sunset sky 
and gorgeous sea. 

The deck of the clean, smart-looking vessel had a very pic- 
turesque aspect, dotted as it was with groups of officers and 
men ; for in addition to the crew, the " Startler " carried four 
companies of Her Majesty's ¡ª th foot, the escort of the British 
Resident and his suite, bound for Campong AUee, the chief town 
of Rajah Hamet, on the Parang River, west coast of the Malay 
peninsula. 

The Resident was to be the help and adviser of the Moham- 
medan potentate, who had souglu the protection of the British 
Government ; and to fix him in his position, and save him from 
the assaults of the various inimical petty rajahs around, the cor- 
vette was to lie for some months in the river, and the residency 




was to be turned into a fort, garrisoned by the troops under 
Major Sandars. 

Bob Roberts, a fair, good-looking, curly-headed lad of sixteen, 
was standing with his back leaned against the bulwarks, his cap 
thrust back, and his hands deep in his pockets, staring defiantly 
across the deck at a lad of about a year or so older, who, as he 
stood very stiff and upright by the cabin ladder, returned the 
stare with interest 

The latter had just buckled on his sword, and, in spite of the 
heat, buttoned up his undress coatee to the chin, ready for the 
short spell of drill which he knew would take place before the 
officers dined ; and after giving the finishing-touch to his gloves, 
he rather ostentatiously raised his sword, then hanging to the 
full length of its slings, and hooked it on to his belt 

" What a jolly shame it is that we should only carry a beggarly 
little dirk," said Bob Roberts to himself, as he tried to look 
sneeringly at the young ensign before him ; for the latter came 
across the deck with rather a swaggering stride, and stood be- 
fore the midshipman. 

" Well, young Jack tar/' he said, with a touch of contempt in 
his tone, 

" Well, young Pipeclay," retorted the middy. " I say, how 
tightly youVe laced your stays to-day. Mind where you go, or 
you'll get some pitch on your lovely unifonn. My word, how 
handsome you look I " 

" I tell you what it is, Master Bob, or Robert Roberts," said 
the young ensign, flushing, " if I did not feel that I was stoop- 
ing by so doing, I should tell you that you were an impudent 
puppy of a boy, and give you a good caning.'* 

" No, no ! please pray don't do that, Mr Ensign Long, or Tom 
Long, or Long Tom, or whatever you call yourself," retorted 
the middy, assuming an aspect of mock terror. " You frighten 
me into fits almost ; and if you did try to cane me you'd split 
that coatee of yours all up the back, or break your staylace, or 
do yourself some mischief, and ¡ª " 

Just then there was the sound of a bugle, followed by the 
tramp of feet ; and the young officer, scowling fiercely, turned 
half-right, and as he did so let his sword down, so that the end 
of the scabbard might clatter against the white deck as he 
marched ofif" to where the men were assembling, while the middy 
burst into a hearty laugh. 

** You two gents is alius a quarrelling," growled a wonderfully 
copper-faced old sailor, giving his lower jaw a twist " Yoa puts 
me in mind of the gamecocks as the Malay niggers we're going 





amongst keeps, to strut up and shake out their hackles afor? 
they has a set to." 

" Well, he is so cocky, Dick," said the middy, " and struts 
about, and ¡ª " 

" That's what I say, sir," said the old sailor, leaning his arms 
on the bulwark, "just like a gamecock" 

"And assumes such an air of superiority," continued the 
middy. 

"Just like you do, sir, to'rds us common sailors," said the man, 
chuckling. 

" Don't you tell lies, Dick," said the lad sharply. " I always 
treat the sailors as an officer and a gentleman should." 

" So you do, sir, so you do ! and it was only my gammon. 
But you do wish you was a swaddy now, and wore a red coat in- 
stead of a blue." 

" No I don't, Dick," said the lad colouring ; " but I do think 
we naval officers ought to wear swords, the same as those boy- 
soldiers." 

" So you ought, sir ; " said the sailor, winking to himself ; 
*' but never you mind about that, sir. If so be as it comes to a 
brush with the niggers, I'll grind you up a cutlash, with a hedge 
so sharp as you might shave yourself with it. Perhaps you'd 
like me to do it now, sir, if your razor is feeling a bit dull ? " 

" Now, look here, old Dick Dunnage," said the middy ; " that's 
cheek ; and I won't have cheek from you, so I tell you." 

"Cheek, sir," said the old sailor, with assumed innocence. 
" I didn't mean to shave only your cheek, sir, but your chin as 

well." 

" Now that'll do, Dick, I'm not ashamed of having no beard, 
and I'm not ashamed of being a boy, so now then." 

"Course you ain't, sir. There, I didn't mean nothing dis- 
respectful. It was only my fun. This here 'bacca as you give 
me, sir, baint the best I ever had. Lor I how hot them poor 
fellows do look, buttoned and belted up as they is," he con- 
tinued, as the soldiers fell into line. " It's a deal better to be a 
sailor, Master Bob." 

" Ever so much, Dick," said the middy. " How long is it 
since you were out here, Dick ? " 

" How long, sir ? " and the sailor thoughtfully, as he sprinkled 
the sea with a little tobacco juice ; " six year." 

" And have you been more than once, Dick ? " 

" Four times altogether, sir. Let's see : I was at Singapore, 
and at Penang, and Malacky, and up the country at a place they 
called Bang, or Clang, or something or another." 




** And what sort of a country is it, Dick ? " said the boy 

eagerly. 

"Wonderful country; all palm trees and jungles, and full of 
rivers and creeks, where the long row-boats, as they call prahus, 
runs up." 

" Those are the pirates' boats, Dick ? " 

" That's right, sir ; and precious awkward things they are to 
catch. Lord love you I I've been after 'em in cutter and pinnace, 
firing our bow gun among them, and the men pulling like mad 
to get up alongside ; but they generally dodged in and out of 
some of these mangrove creeks till they give us the slip, and 
we had to pull back," 

"Shouldn't I like to be in chase of one of the scoundrelly 
prahus ! " cried the lad, with his eyes flasliing. 

"That you would, sir, I'll lay," said the old sailor; "and 
wouldn't you lay into 'em with that very sharp-edged cutlash I 
touches up for you ! " 

" Now look here, Dick, youVe chaffing," said the lad ; " now 
just drop it." 

" All right, sir," said the man, with* a laugh twinkling at the 
corner of his lips. 

" It is a very fme country though, isn^ it, Dick ? " 

"Wonderful, sir. There's gold, and tin, and copper, and 
precious stones." 

** Did you ever find any, Dick ? " 

"Well no, sir ; but I've known them as has found gold in the 
rivers. The Chinees gets most on it" 

"There now you're chaffing again, Dick," cried the lad. 
" Chinese indeed ! Why we're not going to China." 

"'Course we aint, sir, but the Chinees swarm in the place 
we're going to. I aint chaffing now; this here's all true ¡ª as 
true as that the chaps all wears a dagger sort of a thing with a 
crooked handle, and calls it a crease." 

Yes, I know they all wear the kris," said the lad. 

" Yes, sir, and a plaid kilt, just like a Scotchman." 

"What?" 

"A plaid kilt, like a Scotchman, sir, and they calls it a say 

rong; and the big swell princes has it made of silk, and the 
common folks of cotton." 

" Is this gammon, Dick?" 

" Not a bit on it, sir. They wears that crease stuck in it ; 
and they carries spears ¡ª limbings they calls 'em ¡ª and they can 
throw *em a wonderful way." 

" They poison the kris, don't they, Dick ? " 





" No, sir, I don't think they do," said the sailor. " I asked 
one man out there if they didn't; and he pulls his*n out of its 
sheath, and it was all dingy like, and as sharp as a razor, and 
he says in his barbarous lingo, as a man put into English for 
me, as his knife would kill a man without poison." 

" What sort of wild beasts are there, Dick ? " 

" Tigers, sir." 

" Honour bright, Dick?" 

" Honour bright, sir ; lots on 'em. They feeds 'em on 
Chinees." 

** Feed them on Chinese, Dick ? " 

" Well sir, the tigers help theirselves to the coolies when 
they're at work.*' 

" Anything else, Dick ? " 

*' Lor, bless you ] yes, sir; there's elephants." 

** Are 3-ou sure?" 

"Sure, sir. I've seen 'em, heaps o' times; and rhinosseress, 
and hippypotimies, and foreign birds, and snakes." 

"Are there snakes, Dick?" 

"Are there snakes! He says, are there snakes?" said Dick, 
apostrophizing the sea. "Why the last time as ever I was 
there, they caught a boa- constrictor as was ¡ª " 

" Don't make him too long, Dick,*' said the boy laughing. 

"I won't make him too long," said the sailor solemnly, "Let's 
see, sir ; this here ship's 'bout hundred and fifty foot long." 

"Yes, Dick, but the boa-constrictor was longer than that," 
said the lad, laughing. 

"I won't go to deceive you, Mister Roberts," said Dick, "no 
more than I did when I was learning you how to knot and 
splice. That there boa-constrictor was quite a hundred foot 
long." 

" Get out I " 

"Well, say fifty, sir." 

" No, nor yet fifty, Dick." 

"Well, sir, not to zaggerate about such things, if that there 
sarpent as I see with my own eyes ¡ª " 

"Why you couldn't see it with anybody else's, Dick." 

" No, sir, but I might have seen it wi' a spy glass. This 
there sarpent as I see it lying down stretched out straight was 
a good twenty- five foot." 

"Perhaps that may have been, Dick," said Bob Roberts, 
thoughtfully. 

" Yes, sir, it were all that ; and when it was alive it must 
have been fifty foot at least." 



''Why, Dick?'' 

"Cause they stretches out so, sir, just like wonns in the 
garden at home do.*' 

"Gammon, Dick, Serpents don't stretch." 

" Don't stretch, sir ! Just you wait till you get a thirty-footer 
twissen and twining round you, and see if they don't stretch," 

" All right, Dick ; and when he does, you come and pinch 
his tail, and make him open his mouth ', and when he does that 
you pop in a bit of your nasty tobacco, and he'll leave off, and 
go like a shot." 

The old sailor chuckled, and said something about Mister 
Bob Roberts being a nice boy, while the party in question 
walked aft to see the company of soldiers on deck put through 
half-an~hour*s drill, making a point of staring hard and derisively 
at the young ensign, who saw the lad's looks, grew angry, from 
growing angry became confused, and incurred the captain's anger 
by giving the wrong order to the men, some of whom wxnt right, 
knowing what he ought to have said, while others went wrong, 
and got the company hopelessly confused. 

The result was that Ensign Long, of her Majesty's ¡ª th foot, 
was severely snubbed, just as Mr Linton the resident, and his 
daughter Rachel Linton, were looking on. 

" I wouldn't have cared if they had not been there," said 

Ensign Long to himself; "but if I don't serve that little wretch 
of a middy out for this, my name is not Long." 



CHAPTER II. 



INTRODUCES MORE FRIENDS; WITH A FEW WORDS ON 

THE RIVER PARANG. 

The men were dismissed, and gladly got rid of coatee, rifle, and 
belt, to have a lounge in the cool of the evening ; the dinner 
was ready in the captain's cabin, where lights already appeared ; 
and soon after the tropic night came on, as if with a bound. The 
sky was of a purple black, studded with its myriads of stars, 
which were reflected with dazzling lustre from the smooth sur- 
face of the sea. But not only were the bright star shapes there 
to give splendour to the wave, for as far down as eye could reach 
through the clear water it was peopled with tiny phosphorescent 
atoms, moving slowly here and there, and lighting up the depths 
of the sea with a wonderful effulgence that was glorious to 
behold. 

Under the vessel's prow the divided waters flowed to right 
and left like liquid gold, while where the propeller revolved 
beneath the stem the sea was one lambent blaze of fire, ever 
flashing right away, covered with starry spots that glistened, and 
rose, and fell, on the heaving wave. 

As the evening crept on, the various lights of the ship shone 
out clear and bright, notably that from the binnacle, which was 
like a halo round the face of the sailor at the wheel There was 
a faint glow from the skylights too, and a lantern was hung here 
and there about the quarter-deck, where soon after the officers 
assembled to chat and smoke, while their men in turn enjoyed 
their ease. 

The ship rushed swiftly on its way, having passed Penang 
the previous day; and it was expected that on the next they 
would be at the mouth of the river, a native city upon which 
was to be the home of all for many months, perhaps for years. 

The officers were discussing the character of the rajah, some 
being of opinion that he was a bloodthirsty tyrant and uphoMer 
of slavery, whom the British Government were making a great 




mistake in protecting, while others declared that according to 
their experience the Malays were not the cruel treacherous race 
they had been considered, but that they were noble, proud, and 
thorough gentlemen by nature, and that if they were properly 
treated the life of an Englishman amongst them was perfectly 
safe. 

" Well, gentlemen," said a little fat man, who seemed to do 
nothing but perspire and mop his forehead, " they say the proof 
of the pudding is in the eating. I know one thing, however. 
Parang is a glorious country for botanical specimens," 

" Just the thing for you, doctor," said Mr Linton, the resident 

" But it won't be just the thing for you, gentlemen," said the 
little man, " for as sure as my name's Bolter, if you don't 
strictly follow out my orders some of you will be losing the 
number of your mess." 

" Come, that sounds well," said a quiet-looking man in white 
jacket and trousers ; " we are going to Parang to help to put 
down slavery, and we are to be put into a state of slavery by 
the doctor here." 

"He'll deal gently with you sometimes,** said the grey-haired 
major in command of the troops. *' Never turn a deaf ear to 
his discourses on plants, then you will be indulged." 

"What a nice revenge I could have on you, major!'* said 
the doctor, laughing, and rubbing his hands. " Ha, ha, ha ! and 

I could double your dose." 

" Yes," laughed the major ; " and after all it is the doctor who 
really commands these expeditions." 

" Ah, well," said the little gentleman, " 1*11 do the best I can 
for all of yoiL But don't be rash, my dear boys. You must 
avoid night dews, and too much fruit, and over-exertion.*' 

"There, there, doctor," said the major, laughing; "you 
needn't trouble yourself about the last. I'll undertake to say 
that none of my fellows will over-exert themselves." 

" Unless, sir, they are called upon to fight," said a rather im- 
portant voice. 

** Oh, I beg your pardon, I'm sure, Mr Long,'* said the major 
seriously. ** Of course we shall not study trouble then." 

The officers smiled, and looked from one to the other, greatly 
to Mr Tom Long's annoyance. In fact he felt so much aggrieved 
at the way in which his remark had been received, that he pro- 
ceeded to light a very large cigar before rising to seek another 
part of the deck. 

" If you smoke that big strong cigar you'll be ill, Mr Long," 
said the doctor quietly. 





'* VA cut it in half, Long," said Captain Smithers, "and give 
the other half to young Roberts." 

" I know what I can smoke, sir," replied the youth haughtily. 
"Perhaps you will take one." 

" I 1 No, thanks. They are too strong for me." And with 
what was meant for a very haughty, injured look, Ensign Long 
strode slowly away. 

" Thank you, doctor,*' said Major Sandars. " It's just as well 
to snub that young gentleman sometimes. He*s a fine young 
fellow, and will make a splendid officer ; but really there are 
times when I get wondering whether we have changed places, 
and he is in command." 

" Oh, all boys go through that stage," said the resident quietly. 
" He has just arrived at the hair-brushing, make-yourself-look-nicc 
age, and feels at least eight-and-twenty." 

" When he is only eighteen," said Captain Smithers. 

" He is only seventeen, I believe," said the major, *' and the 
youngest ensign in the service. By the way, Linton, I believe 
Long has formed a desperate attachment for your daughter." 

" Yes, 1 had noticed it," said the resident drily ; " and as 
Ensign Long is seventeen, and my daughter twenty-three, it will 
be a most suitable match. But he has a rival, I see." 

Captain Smithers started slightly as the major exclaimed, ¡ª 

" Who may that be ? " 

" Our dashing young friend, Mr Bob Roberts." 

There was a bit of a scuffle here as the whole party burst into 
a roar of laughter. 

" Oh, I beg your pardon, Roberts," said the resident. " I did 
not know you were there." 

Bob Roberts felt red hot with shame and annoyance, as he 
made a rush and retreated from the group by whom his presence 
had been unperceived. 

" I hope, Linton," said Captain Horton, in command of the 
" Startler," " that my youngster there has not been behaving 
impertinently to Miss Linton." 

*' Not at all," said the resident quietly ; " both Mr Long 
and Mr Roberts have been full of respectful admiration for the 
young lady, who has sufficient common sense to behave to the 
silly young gentlemen as they deserve. It is all connected 
with the hair-brushing stage, and will, I have no doubt, help to 
make them both grow into fine manly young fellows by-and-by." 

"Why, I can see through the mill-stone now," said the doctor, 
laughing. 

" What mill-stone, doctor ? " 

" Why, I have been puzzling myself as to why it was those 




two boys were always squabbling together. I see now ; they're 
as jealous as can ba I say, Mr Linton, you ought not to bring 
such a bone of contention on board as that daughter of yours, 
and her cousin," 

" Seriously, my dear doctor," said the resident, " I do some- 
times feel that I am to blame for bringing those two motherless 
girls out into the jungle ; but Rachel declared that she would 
not be separated from me ; and Miss Sinclair, my sister's child, 
seems more like one of my own, and shared her cousin's feelings." 

** They are two ladies, Linton,'* said the major, " for whom we 
feel the deepest respect ; and, speaking selfishly, I am only too 
glad that my wife has a couple of such charming companions." 

" Yes," said Captain Horton ; " and if 1 had known what I 
know now, I should have let Mrs Horton have her wish, and 
accompany me." 

" Well, gentlemen," said the resident, rather sadly, " I don't 
know, but I have a sort of presentiment that it would have been 
better if we had been without ladies, or soldiers' wives, if you 
come to that ; for I cannot conceal from myself that we are 
bound upon a very risky expedition, one out of which I hope we 
shall all come safely." 

** Oh, we shall be safe enough,'* said the major. 

" Do you think there is really any danger, Mr Linton ? " said 
Captain Smithers, rather hoarsely. 

"Why, you are not afraid, are you, Smithers? Come, you 
must not show the white feather ! " 

" I am not afraid for myself. Major Sandars," said the young 
captain, quietly ; " and I hope I shall never show the white 
feather; but when there are women and children in an expe- 
dition¡ª" 

*' Oh, come, come," said the resident, gaily ; " I am afraid I 
have been croaking. There may be danger ; but when we are 
surrounded by such brave men as the officers and crew of the 
* Startler,' and her Majesty's ¡ª th foot, I see, after all, nothing 
whatever to fear." 

" Fear ? no ! " said Captain Horton. " Why, we could blow 
the whole place to Cape Horn with my guns \ and the Malays 
would never face Sandars' boys, with their bayonets." 

*' Did you notice that sentry, Smithers ? " asked the little 
doctor, in a low voice, of his companion, as the conversation 
now became less general. 

" Sentry ? which one ? " 

" This one," said the doctor. " Don't speak aloud, or hell 
;hear you." 





" Private Gray ? No, I did not notice anythbg. WTiat do 
you mean ? " 

" The light of that lantern shines full on his face, and he made 
a movement that drew my attention when we were talking of 
there being danger." 

" Indeed?" said the captain, 

" Yes ; he was evidently listening to the conversation, and 
I saw him start so that he nearly dropped his piece ; his face 
was quite convulsed, and he turned of a sickly pallor. The 
light was so strong upon him that I could see his lips whiten." 

"Or was it fancy, doctor?" 

" Fancy ? No, my lad, that was no fancy ; and I hope we 
have not many more like him in the regiment." 

" Well, for my part," said Captain Smithers, quietly, " J have 
often wished that my company was composed of Adam Grays." 

"Adam, eh? To be sure; I remember the fellow now. Well, 
he's a poor descendant of the first Adam, for if that fellow is 
not an arrant coward my name isn*t Bolter." 

" Really, doctor, I think you do the man an injustice. He 
is a very superior, well educated fellow; and it has often puzzled 
me how he became a private soldier." 

" Scamp ! " said the doctor, shortly. " Some runaway or 
another. The ranks of the army are made a receptacle for 
blackguards 1 " 

" Hang it, doctor 1" cried the young captain, warmly, " I can- 
not sit here and listen to such heresy. I confess that we do get 
some scoundrels into the army ; but as a rule our privates are 
a thoroughly trustworthy set of fellows, ready to go through 
fire and water for their officers ; and I only wish the country would 
make better provision ioi them when their best days are past" 

'* Ah, that's right enough," said the doctor; " they are all what 
you say, and they do deserve better treatment of their country. 
I mean, ha, ha, ha ! to make teetotallers of them this trip, I*m 
not going to have the men poisoned with that red hot country 
arrack, I can tell them." 

"It is terrible stuff, I believe." 

"Terrible? It's liquid poison, sir! and I don't know that I 
sha'n't try and set up a private brewery of my own, so as to 
supply the poor fellows with a decent glass of beer." 

" Poor fellows ! eh, doctor ? Why, you said just now they 
were a set of scoundrels." 

" Well, well, well ; I didn't mean all. But look at that fellow 
Sim ¡ª there's a pretty rascal for you ! He's always on the sick- 
list, and it's nearly always sham." 





" I'm afraid he is a bit of a black sheep," said Captain Smithers. 

" Inky black, Smithers, inky black. I shall poison that fellow 
some day. But I say, my dear boy, the brewery." 

*' What about it ? " 

" What about it ? Why, it would be splendid. I mean to say 
it is a grand idea. I'll get the major to let rne do it." 

" My dear doctor," said Captain Smithers, laughing, " I'm 
afraid if you did brew some beer, and supply it to the men, 
fancy would go such a long way that they would find medicinal 
qualities in it, and refuse to drink a drop." 

*'Then they would be a set of confoundedly ungrateful 
scoundrels," said the doctor, angrily, "for I should only use 
malt and hops." 

" And never serve it as you did the coffee that day, doctor ? " 

" Well, well, I suppose I must take the credit of that I did 
doctor it a little ; but it was only with an astringent corrective, 
to keep the poor boys from suffering from too much fruit." 

"Poor bo3^s ! eh, doctor? Come, come, you don't think my 
brave lads are a set of scoundrels then ? " 

" I said before, not all ¡ª not all," replied the doctor. 

'' Ah, doctor," said Captain Smithers, " like a good many more 
of us, you say more than you mean sometimes, and I know you 
have the welfare of the men at heart." 

" Not I, my lad, not I. It's all pure selfishness ; I don't care 
a pin about the rascals. All I want is to keep them quite well, 
so that they may not have to come bothering me, when I want 
my time to go botanizing ; that's all." 

" And so we have fewer men on the sick list than any regi- 
ment out here ? " 

" Tut ! tut ! Nonsense I " 

Just then the ladies came up from the principal cabin, and 
began to walk slowly up and down the quarter-deck, evidently 
enjoying the delicious coolness of the night air, and the beauty 
of the sea and sky. 

Captain Smithers sat watching them intently for a time, and 
then, as he happened to turn his head, he caught sight of the 
sentry, Adam Gray, and it struck him that he too was atten- 
tively watching the group of ladies. So convinced did the 
young ofhcer become of this, that he could not refrain from 
watching him. 

Once or twice he thought it was only fancy, but at last he 
felt sure ; and a strange angry sensation sprang up in his 

breast as he saw the sentry's countenance change when the 
ladies passed him. 





" An insolent scoundrel ! " he muttered. " How dare he ? " 

Then, as the ladies took their seats at some distance, he 
began thinking over what the doctor had said, and wondering 
whether this man, in whom he had heretofore taken a great 
deal of interest, was such a coward ; and in spite of his angry- 
feelings, he could only come to the conclusion that the doctor 
was wrong. 

But at the same time what he had heard and seen that even- 
ing had not been without its effect, and he found himself irritable 
and vexed against this man, while his previous good feelings 
seemed to be completely swept away. 

At last he rose impatiently, and strolled towards where the 
ladies were sitting, and joined in the conversation that was going 
on round a bucket of water that the doctor had just had dipped 
from over the side, and which he had displayed, full of biilliantly 
shining points of light, some of which emitted flashes as he 
stirred the water with his hands, or dipped glasses full of it, to 
hold up for the fair passengers to see. 

" All peculiar forms of jelly-fish," he said aloud, as if he were 
delivering a lecture, "and all possessing the power of emitting 
that beautiful phosphorescent light. There you see, ladies, if I 
had a spoon I could skim it off the top of this bucket of water, 
just like so much golden cream, and'pour it into a glass. Very 
wonderful, is it not?" 

" Look, look, doctor 1 " said one of the ladies, pointing to the 
sea, where a series of vivid flashes rapidly followed one another. 

"Yes, my dear, I see," he replied ; " that was some fish dart- 
ing through the water, and disturbing the medusae. If you 
watch you can see the same thing going on all round." 

So glorious was the aspect of the sea that the conversation 
gradually ceased, and all on the quarter deck watched the ever- 
widening hnes of golden water that parted at the stem of the 
corvette and gradually died away, or were mingled with the 
glistening foam churned up by the propeller. 

For the sea seemed to be one blaze of soft lambent light, that 
flashed angrily wherever it was disturbed by the steamer, or the 
startled fish, that dashed away on every side as they swiftly ran 
on towards the land of swamp and jungle, of nipah and betel 
palm, where the rivers were bordered by mangroves, the home of 
the crocodile ; a land where the night's conversation had roused 
up thoughts of its being perhaps the burial-place of many a one 
of the brave hearts throbbing within the timbers of that stout 
ship ¡ª hearts that were to play active parts in the adventurous 
scenes to come. 



CHAPTER IIL 



DOCTOR BOLTER CURES ONE PATIENT, AND IS LEFT WITH 

ANOTHER, 

" Is that Parang, that dim light out yonder, captain?" said the 
major, pointing to what looked like a cloud touching the water. 

*' Oh, no,'* was the reply. " That is part of Sumatra. Our 
destination lies off the other bow, due east from where we are 

lying now." 

It was a glorious morning, and the sun at that early hour had 
not yet attained to its greater power. The ladies were on deck, 
enjoying the morning air; the soldiers were having morning 
parade, and looked clean and smart in their white clothes and 
puggarees. The sailors were giving the last touches to brass 
rails and cabin windows, and were coiling ropes into neat rings ; 
and altogether the deck of the "Startler," with its burnished 
guns, presented a bright and animated spectacle, every one 
seeming to have some business on hand 

There was a little bit bustle about the steerage ladder, where 
four sailors were hauling a sick man up on deck ; and as soon 
as they had him lying in the sunshine upon a mattress, the 
doctor bustled up ¡ª Bob Roberts, seeing Ensign Long at hand, 
going up and looking on, after the two youths had exchanged a 
short distant nod. 

" Well, Sim," said the doctor, briskly, *' how are you this 
morning ? " 

"Very ¡ª very bad, sir," replied the invalid, a big bony-faced 
man, who looked very yellow. 

" Put out your tongue," said the doctor. 

Private Sim put out such an enormously long tongue that Bob 
Roberts gave his trousers a hitch, and made believe to haul it 
forth by the yard, very much to the ensign's digust 

* * That'll do," said the doctor, feeling the patient's pulse, and 
then dropping the hand, " Now what am I to prescribe for 
you, Sim, eh ? You feel a terrible sense of sinking, don't you ? " 





"Yes, sir; terrible." 

" As if you needed strengthening food ? " 

" Yes, sir." 

" And some kind of stimulating drink ¡ª say wine ? " 

" Yes, sir," said the patient, rolling his eyes. " I feel as if a 
little wine would Ao me good." 

" Has the buzzing sensation left your head ? " 

"Very nearly, sir." 

" And you don't feel so much pressure on your chest ? *' 

'* Well, sir, not just now." 

'* Less pain too, under your left shoulder ?'* 

The major walked up just now. 

"Yes, sir; it's not quite so painful." 

" But you slept well ? " 

"Pretty well, sir, for me; I should think I had quite an 
hour's sleep last night." 

" A whole hour, eh ? " 

' Yes, sir." 

"Well, doctor," said the major, "what do you think of your 
patient ? I hope you are better, Sim ? " 

" Thanky kindly, sir," said Private Sim, screwing up a terrible 
face. 

" I was thinking which I ought to prescribe," said the doctor, 
very seriously. "Sim's is a peculiar case. There's pressure 
on the brain, and also congestion of the vascular system of the 
spinal column." 

" Indeed 1 " said the major, 

" Yes, sir," replied the doctor, pursing up his lips, " and I'm 
hesitating between two courses." 

"Try *em both, doctor," said Bob Roberts, laughing with his eyes. 

" Right, youngster," said the doctor, clapping him on the 
shoulder, " I will. We'll have the moist application first, and 
the warm dry application after." 

Private Sim screwed up his face a little tighter. 

" If I might make so bold, sir," he said in a whining voice, 
" I think what you've given me*s done me ever so much good, 
and all I want now is rest." 

" Rest, my man 1 " said the doctor. " Nonsense man ! You 
want the most brisk and active treatment Yours is a sluggish 
system, but we*ll soon put you right. Here, my lads," he 
continued to the sailors, ** bring a stout rope, and lash it round 
his chest. We'll give him four dips overboard for the head 
pressure, and then four dozen on the back to increase the 
circulation." 





" Oh, doctor 1" groaned the man, looking round for sympathy; 
but only to see everyone within hearing on the grin. 

"Don't you be afraid, Sim; 111 soon put you right," said the 
doctor kindly. " I'll make a man of you." 

'* I don't think I could bear it, doctor. I mean I do really 
feel better, sir." 

" Let*s see if you can stand, Sim," said the doctor. 

The man rose groaning, and held on by one of the sailors, 
who, at a word from the doctor, slipped away, and left the 
invalid standing. 

" You are better, decidedly, Sim, You couldn't have done 
that two days ago." 

"No, sir." 

" There, now walk across the deck." 

" If I'm able to walk, sir, shall I have to be dipped ? " 

** Walk away, and go below to vour mess, you idle, shamming 
scoundrel," cried the doctor. 

Private Sim opened his lips to speak, but the look he received 
was too much for him, and he slowly walked off, trying hard 
to appear ill-used, till he reached the companion ladder, down 
which he shuffled to the intense delight of the men. 

There was no land in sight, but the sea was glorious in the 
brilliant sunshine ¡ª so clear and blue that the darting fish could 
be seen far below ; and before long, Bob Roberts had borrowed 
a fishing-line from Dick, the old sailor, baited the hooks, and was 
trailing it behind the vessel, in the hope of catching enough fish 
for a dinner for his mess. 

At first his sport was not very good ; but after a time he 
captured a large glistening fish, evidently, from its silvery skin, 
belonging to the mackerel family ; and this so excited Ensign 
Long, who had been looking on rather contemptuously, that he 
borrowed a line of the boastwain, and was also soon at work fishing. 

The lads had such good sport that the officers looked on 
quite amused, and the ladies under the awning asked from time 
to time to be shown the glistening captives that had been taken. 

Soon after the doctor joined the party, to discourse learnedly 
about the various fishes, which he classified as he pointed out 
their peculiarities, assuring his fair hearers that far more 
beautiful specimens might yet be taken. 

Rachel Linton, a fair, very intelligent looking girl, was much 
interested in the doctor's descriptions, as was also her cousin, 
Mary Sinclair, a dark, handsome, but delicate brunette, of 
nineteen, full of questions, which the doctor took great delight 
in answering. 





Bob Roberts and the young ensign vied one with the other 
in hunying up with their fish, as they were successful, Ensign 
Long looking hopelessly disgusted as he saw the middy catch 
and carry three fish in succession beneath the awning, while he 
could not get a bite. 

Soon, however, his turn came, and with a look of triumph he 
bore a long silvery fish with bars of azure blue across its scaly 
armour, to where the ladies were seated, Bob Roberts biting his 
lips as he heard the exclamations of pleasure uttered by each of 
the cousins in turn, 

" Never mind," he muttered, " I shall have a startler directly, 
see if I don*t," and he fished away, changing his bait, or replac- 
ing it as it was lost in consequence of the rapid motion of the 
steamer through the water ; but all in vain ; not a single fish 
came to his side, while on the other side Ensign Long was hav- 
ing tremendous luck 

Wearied out with trying, the lad sat at last holding his line in 
one hand, but paying no heed to it, for his eyes were directed 
beneath the awning, where all looked dim as compared with the 
sun-glare outside j and here from time to time he saw Long 
enter with some new prize, which the doctor took, and held up 
to the ladies, the more brilliantly coloured being consigned to 
one or the other of a couple of buckets of water, which one of 
the soldiers in undress uniform, whom the middy recognized as 
the sentry of the previous night, kept replenishing with fresh 
water dipped from the sea. 

" He isn't a bad-looking chap," said the young midshipman, as 
he sat on the bulwarks in a very insecure position, " I wish I was 
filling the buckets and holding up the fish for the ladies to see." 

He glanced once at his trailing line, and saw the bait flash in 
the water, then he glanced back at the party beneath the awning. 

** How black Captain Smithers looks," he said- " That soldier 
must have splashed him, or something, for he looks as if he was 
going to have him tried by court-martial. Here I think I shall 
drop it. Hang it all ! if that fellow Long hasn't caught another. 
What did she say ? " he cried, drawing in his breath with a hiss. 
'* * You are ever so much more fortunate than Mr Roberts.' Oh, 
I'd give something to have her say that to me, and ¡ª murder ! 
I've got him this time." 

He made a convulsive grasp at a rope, and just saved himself 
from falling overboard, for a vigorous snatch made by a large 
fish at his bait had been quite sufficient to disturb his equilibrium, 
his activity alone saving him from a terrible ducking, if not firom 
being drowned. 




He recovered himself though, and thought no more of his 
escape in the excitement of finding that he had hooked a heavy- 
ish fish, and which took a good deal of playing ; for just as it 
seemed exhausted, there was a fierce, furious snatch at the line, 
and the captive appeared to have grown heavier. 

" He's almost too heavy to lift out, Dick," he cried to the old 
sailor who came up. 

" Ease him then, sir, and take it easy," said Dick ; " tire him 
quite out, and then haul in quickly." 

Bob Roberts obeyed, and to his intense delight, gradually 
hauled his fish to the surface, where he could not make out what 
it was by its shape, only that it was a blaze of blue, and gold, and 
silver, flashing in the sun. 

*' Hi, doctor ! I've got such a beauty ! " he shouted, dragging 
at the stout line, till with a rush he hoisted his fish on to the 
deck. 

** Well, that's a rum 'un, sir," cried the sailor. " Why it's a 
young sea sarpent." 

" What have you got ? " said the doctor eagerly, as the lad 
hurried excitedly beneath the awning with his prize. 

" I don't know, doctor," said the lad, " But look. Miss 
Linton ¡ª Miss Sinclair, isn't it curious ? " 

The lad's cheeks flushed, and his eyes sparkled with delight, 
as he held up by the line what seemed to be a good-sized fish, 
of five or six pounds' weight, with a very long brilliantly-coloured 
eel twined tightly round and round it, in a perfect spiral, several 
feet in length. 

" Why, you've caught a fish, boy," said the doctor, examining 
the prize through his glasses, " and it has been seized and con- 
stricted by a sea snake. Dear me ! bliss my soul ! that's very 
curious. Look here, Captain Smithers, and ladies. Gray, a 
fresh bucket of water. Most singular thing ! " 

" I thought he got precious heavy all at once, doctor," said 
the lad, looking from one to the other. That chap darted at 
him then," 

" Ye ¡ª es, I suppose so," said the doctor. ** Lovely colouring, 
to be sure ! See how tightly it has constricted the fish, ladies. 
Just like a piece of woodbine round a stick, only the coils are 

more close." 

" It is very beautiful," said Miss Linton, approaching more 
closely, so that she could feast her eyes on the vivid colouring 
of the water snake, which was about ^\e feet in length, but whose 
coils seemed to grow more close as the fish ceased to flap as it 
nas held up by the middy. 




" I'm glad you like it, Miss Linton," he said, darting a tri- 
umphant glance at where Ensign Long was now fishing in vain. 
" He didn't catch two at once," the boy muttered to himself. 

"I wouldn't go too close, Miss Linton," said the doctor, "for 
some of these sea snakes are reputed to be poisonous. Lovely 
thing, isn't it, Smithers ? " 

" Very," said the young captain drily ; " but pray take care, 
Miss Linton." 

" I am not afraid," said the lady, looking up at him with a 
quiet air of confidence, just as Private Gray bore in a fresh 
bucket of limpid sea water, and set it down at her feet. 

*'Now then," said the doctor; "hold still, Roberts." 

"All right, sir; but it's jolly heavy/' said the boy. 

" Then give the line a shake, and the snake will fall into the 
bucket. Or stop; I will." 

But he was too late, for the lad had already given the line a 
quick shake, with the result that the snake uncoiled like light- 
ning, and darted at the nearest object, that object being Miss 
Linton's arm, round which it coiled with the rapidity of the 
thong of a whip round a stick. 

The resident's daughter was brave and strong minded, but as 
she felt the contact of the creature*s cold scales upon her bare 
arm she could not forbear from shrieking aloud ; but even as she 
uttered the cry, the young soldier, Gray, had caught the snake 
round the neck, causing it to loosen its hold, but only to coil 
round his own bare arm, round which it twisted, and twice seized 
the wrist with its little mouth. 

" The snake has bitten me,'' said the young man, hoarsely, as 
he dashed its head rapidly against one of the chairs, and then 
cast it, broken but \\Tithing, upon the white deck. 

All this took but a few moments, and then Private Gray stood, 
gazing with a strange wild longing look at Miss Linton, as the 
doctor exclaimed, ¡ª 

" Quick, Roberts, to my cabin ; the ammonia. Ladies, go 
away, please, quickly." 

He caught the young soldier, and forced him back in one of 
the chairs as he spoke, for already a ghastly pallor was over- 
spreading his countenance. 

" Is it ¡ª is it poisonous, doctor ? " whispered Miss Linton, as 
she darted a horrified look at Gray. 

"Deadly! my dear young lady," he replied hastily. "The 
poor fellow has saved your life. And only last night," he 
thought, " I said he was a coward," 



CHAPTER IV. 

DOCTOR BOLTER RUBS HIS HANDS, AND CAPTAIN SMITHERS 

LOOKS GREEN. 

As soon as Bob Roberts returned with the ammonia, and realized 
what was wrong, he pulled out his pocket-knife, placed his foot 
on the reptile's neck, as it still writhed feebly, and cut off its head. 

He had hardly completed his task though, before he was 
summoned by the doctor to assist him. Here, however, he 
was forestalled by Miss Linton, who, ignoring the request to go, 
had in the most business-like way helped to lower the fainting 
man upon the deck, and supported his head while the stimulant 
was administered. 

" Pray go away, Miss Linton," exclaimed Doctor Bolter then; 
" this is only a task for a trained nurse/' 

"I am a trained nurse,*' said Rachel Linton, quietly; and 
drawing a cushion from a chair, she placed it on the deck, 
lowered the injured man's head upon it, and then, seeing the 
doctor's intention, held the patient's arm while he freely used a 
lancet about the tiny marks made by the serpent's teeth, and 
rubbed in the ammonia. 

Captain Smithers meanwhile had not spoken, but stood watch- 
ing Miss Linton, with a strange look upon his countenance, 
shuddering, though, once or twice, as he saw the ghastly face of 
the injured man, and his fixed half-closed eyes. 

"What can 1 do next, doctor? " said Miss Linton, in a quiet, 
eager voice. 

" Nothing at present, my dear young lady," he said, looking at 

her admiringly. " Why, what a brave-hearted girl you are I " 
" Brave ? " she said. " What, to do this for one who saved me 

perhaps from death ? But tell me, doctor, will he live ? " 

" I don't know ; I hope so ; it is impossible to say. It is such 

a rare thing for a man to be bitten by one of these creatures. I 

never had such a case before, and I ought to have known better ; 

but I did not know it was a dangerous species of snake." 




He held the soldier's pulse as he spoke, and then frowned, and 
mixing more ammonia and water, raised the poor fellow's head, 
and poured the liquid between his half-clenched teeth. 

"Try and swallow it, Gray, my good fellow." 

The young man opened his eyes as if awakened from sleep, 
stared about till they rested on Miss Linton, when they closed 
again, and he drank the stimulant with difficulty. 

"Stand back, please. Captain Smithers keep every one away, 
and let us have all the air we can." 

Thus appealed to, the young officer motioned back those who 
pressed forward, the news of the accident having spread through 
the ship, and all who dared ascending to the quarter-deck. 

'* How provoking 1" exclaimed Major Sandars. *'One of my 
best men too, doctor. Really, Bolter, I must put a slop to your 
natural history researches." 

" Confound it all, major ! " cried the little doctor, angrily ; " it 
was an accident That young dog caught the snake, and ¡ª no ¡ª 
no ! it's all right, Roberts. It was my fault ; I ought to have 
foreseen what would happen." 

Ensign Long had begun to congratulate himself on the fact 
that Bob Roberts was about to have a good wigging, but found 
out that he was wrong, and felt annoyed to see how important a 
part the lad played in the proceedings to fight back the effects of 
the deadly poison. 

" Take my coat off, Roberts," said the doctor. " Gently, boy, 
gently. That's right. Now the ammonia ; good. Raise his 
head a little. Poor fellow, we mustn't let him slip through our 
fingers. That's it. Miss Linton. Miss Sinclair, will you get a 
big fan, and give him all the air you can ? " 

He was obeyed to the letter ; while Captain Horton and the 
resident stood near, ready to help in any way they could, for the 
news had caused the deepest concern throughout the ship. 

" Yah ! " cried Private Sim, with an ugly snarl ; " there's yer 
nasty favouritism. See how they're all a-cuddling and messing 
that there Gray up, orficers and women and alL Might ha' died 
afore they'd ha' done anything for me." 

'*Why, you caulking, miching lubber," growled old Dick, 
" you had ten times as much trouble 'stowed on you as you 
deserved. Tell you what, my lads," he continued, addressing a 
crowd of soldiers and sailors who had been discussing the event 
forward, " it's this here sorter thing as makes me saddersfied to 
be a common sailor. Yer orficers may row and bully yer some- 
times for not being smart enough ; but I never knowed a orficer 
yet as wasn't ready to run the same risks as the men ; and when 



you're down, Lor' bless my *art, nothin's too good for yoiL 
Member the skipper coming and bringing us horindges, Joe 
Tomson, when we had the feckshus fever?" 

" Ay, ay, mate," growled a big sun-tanned sailor. 

" Right you are, mate," said a big sergeant. " It's just so 
with us. IVe knowed our officers run out under fire to bring in 
wounded men, and get shot down theirselves. You remember 
Captain Smithers doing that, out in China, Billy Mustard?" 

" That I do," said a fair red-faced private, with a merry look 
in his eyes. " He brought me in on his back. I'm waiting to 
sec him down some day, and carry him in." 

" To be sure," growled old Dick. " Orficers is orficers, and 
there 'aint one aboard this ship as wouldn't jump overboard to 
save any man, even if it was such a grumbling warmint as old 
Sim here." 

Private Sim snarled, and showed a set of yellow teeth, as he 
held out the palm of his left hand to give it a severe punch with 
his right fist; after which ebullition he seemed to feel much 
better, and went and leaned over the side. 

" I hope Private Gray will get better," said Billy Mustard, who 
was a great favourite with the men from the fact that he was 
famous as a fiddler, and could rattle off anything from " Money 
Musk " up to " The Triumph ; " and as to hornpipes, the ¡ª th 
said there wasn't a man in the service who could touch him. 
Billy Mustard had won the hearts of the sailors, too, during the 
voyage, from the way in which he sang "The Death of Nelson," 
with many another naval ditty, to which the whole forecastle 
could rattle out a hearty chorus. ** I hope Private Gray will 
get better," said Billy. 

"Ah, we all hope that," said Sergeant Lund. "Not that 
Adam Gray's a friend of mine. He's too much of a gentleman ; 
and when he's going through his drill, it always seems as if one 
was putting a young officer through his facings. Not that I wish 
him any harm ; but if he's a gentleman he ought to have got 
his commission, and kept out of the ranks." 

" Well, sergeant," said Billy Mustard, " I don't see that it 
matters much what a man is, so long as he's ready for dooty, and 
I will say as Gray never sticks himself up, but does his dooty 
like a man." 

" Yah 1 he'll turn out no good/' snarled Private Sim, looking 
round. 

" Well, for my part," said old Dick, " if I was to go in for being 
cunnle of a regiment, I should like that there regiment to be all 
private Simses, a?4 then I'd have all the oncers doctors." 




" And a big hospital for barracks," said the sergeant, laughing. 

"And rations of physic served out every day," cried Billy 
Mustard. 

There was a hearty laugh at this ; but it was checked directly, 
as the men recalled that one of their number was lying in grievous 
I)eril; while Private Sim glanced round, uttered a snarl like 
that of a hyaena, then turned back and gave his left hand 
another punch. 

" Laugh at me, will yer ? " he growled, " when I'm so jolly ill. 
Just let me get hold o' that there fiddle o' yours, Master Billy 
Mustard, and I'll smash it, see if I don't." 

He seemed to feel better after this threat, and stood leaning 
over the bulwarks, and spitting down into the sea, while one of 
the sailors went aft to learn some tidings concerning Adam 
Gray. 

Meanwhile, the centre of an anxious knot of observers, the 
young soldier lay breathing very feebly in spite of the stimulants 
frequently administered ; and Bob Roberts, as he knelt close by 
on the deck, watched with a strange feeling of heart-sickness 
coming over him. He could not conceal from himself the 
feet that he had been the cause of all the suffering ; and full of 
self-reproach, he knelt there, considering whether he should 
ever forget that scene, with the pale face of the fine young 
fellow lying before him. 

Gray seemed to be in no great pain, but to be suflfering more 
from a strange delirium caused by the working of the tiny drops 
of poison injected in his veins. He muttered a few words 
occasionally, and started convulsively from time to time ; but 
when spoken to, he calmed down, and lay, apparently, waiting 
for his end. 

" Don't know ; can't say," was all that could be got from the 
doctor, as the hours crept on ¡ª hours when the heat of the sun 
was terrible ; but no one left the injured man's side. 

The specimens in the buckets were forgotten, and died ; the 
cause of the misfortune grew dry and shrivelled, where it had 
twined and wriggled itself, half a dozen yards away, the 
dangerous head being thrown overboard by Bob Roberts, and 
swallowed by a fish before it had descended many feet 

Both the resident and the captain had tried to persuade the 
ladies to leave the sick man's side \ but they had declined to go, 
and Doctor Bolter had nodded approval. 

" Thank you, my dears, thank you,'' he said. " It's very kind 
of you ; and I'm glad enough, I can tell you, to find that you've 
both got something in you besides fine young bdyism." 





" I wish we could do more," said Rachel Linton, quietly. 

" So do I, my dear," said the little doctor ; " and I wish I 
could do more, but I have done all I can. Nature must do the 
rest." 

The long, hot day passed on, and evening was approaching 
before the doctor took anything more than a glass of wine and 
water and a biscuit ; and at last, when every one had judged by 
poor Gray's aspect that all now was over, and Major Sandars 
came up and thanked him for his patient endeavours to save the 
poor fellow's life, the doctor felt his patient*s pulse once more, 
raised the closed eyelids and gazed at the pupils, and then rose 
up, dropped into a cane lounging chair, and began softly rubbing 
his knees. 

" Now, ladies," he said firmly, " go below and dine. I order 
it. Sandars ¡ª Horton ¡ª if you have any good feeling left in you, 
you'll send relays of Jacks and privates to rub my poor knees. 
I say," he said, looking round with a smile, " that was a close 
shave, wasn't it ? " 

** Close shave?" said the major, as the ladies drew back, 
apparently hurt at the doctor's levity ; and poor Bob Roberts, 
kneeling at the injured man's feet, lowered his head so that 
those near should not see the unmanly tears gathering in his 
eyes, though he was somewhat comforted on seeing that Ensigii 
Long was almost as much moved. 

"Yes," said the doctor; "you might have got all the nobs of 
the profession, and I don't believe they could have done 
better." 

" No," said Captain Horton rather coldly. " You have worked 
hard. Doctor Bolter." 

"Hard? I should think I have. I tell you what it is, sir, 
you would not have felt more pleased than I do if you had been 
made an admiral." 

" But the man is dying fast, Bolter," said Major Sandars. 

" Dying, sir? why he has been dying fast all day." 

" Then is not this rather unseemly before ladies ? " said 
Captain Horton. 

"Unseemly? Before ladies?" said the doctor in a puzzled 
way. " Why, can't you see for yourselves ? Ha, ha, ha ! " he 
said, laughing softly. " Don't you see the remedies have beaten 
the poison. There's a delightful sleep he has dropped into." 

" Sleep ? " exclaimed Miss Linton. 

"To be sure, my dear. Look what a lovely perspiration is 
coming out on his forehead. There, come away, and let him 
sleep. Hell be nearly well by to-morrow morning." 





Bob Roberts leaped up from the deck, as if sent by a sling, 
made a dash at Ensign Long, swung him round, indulged in 
a kind of war dance indicative of triumph ; then looked 
extremely ashamed of himself, and dashed off into the gun-room 
to spread the news that the doctor had saved Gray's life. 

''That's not a bad sort of boy," said the doctor, looking after 
Bob ] and then, as Ensign Long raised his chin in the air, and 
looked very dignified, " tell you what Sandars, if I were you I'd 
get Captain Horton to make a swop. Let's give him Tom Long 
in exchange for the middy. What do you say ? " 

Tom Long marched off, looking very much disgusted ; and 
Sergeant Lund having been summoned to bring a file to watch 
by the sick man, the much relieved party went down to dinner. 



CHAPTER V. 



UP THE PARANG RIVER. 

That evening the anchor was dropped off the mouth of the 
Parang river ; and as the night closed in all eyes were directed 
to the thickly-wooded country on each side of the stream, whose 
banks were hidden by the dense growth of mangrove trees, 
which, now that the tide was up, seemed to be growing right out 
of the water, which those on board could see through their 
glasses to be smoothly flowing amidst the stems. 

Further inland tall columnar nipah palms could be seen 
fringing the tidal way, and apparently growing amidst the man- 
groves, with the water washing their roots. 

Dense green vegetation, and a broad flowing muddy river ¡ª 
that was all that greeted the eyes of the eager lookers-on, till 
darkness set in. Not a trace of town or village, not even a 
fisherman's hut or a boat All was vegetation and the flowing 
river. 

Once Bob Roberts thought he saw a boat coming down the 
stream, and in the distance it very strangely resembled some 
little craft with upright mast and dark sail ; but as it came nearer 
it proved to be a patch of root-matted vegetable soil, washed 
from the bank, and having in the centre a small nipah palm, 
which slowly passed from sight, to be cast ashore upon some 
mud bank, and again take root. 

But as the darkness fell, the distant gHtter as of tiny sparks 
amidst the trees took the attention of all. They were too dis- 
tant to see the phenomenon to perfection ; but the faint sparkle 
was very beautiful as the myriads of fire-flies, by which it was 
caused, flitted and changed from place to place, which was now 
dark, now scintillating in a most peculiar manner. 

The captain had decided not to attempt the passage of the 
river till morning, all on board being very ignorant of its entrance, 
though, judging from the configuration of the coast, the most 
they had to dread was being grounded for a time on some bank 




of mud or sand This part of the coast was so sheltered that 
there was no surf ; and when the anchor was let go, the corvette 
swung round easily, to lie almost without motion on the calm 
still waters of the river's mouth. 

But though no sign of human habitation had been visible, as 
the night wore on those on board became fully aware of the fact 
that the jungle had plenty of denizens, for from time to time 
strange roarings were heard, and then splashings in the water, as 
of wild creatures bathing. Once or twice too, as Bob Roberts 
and Ensign Long, companions for the time being, if not friends, 
leaned over the bulwarks, they fancied they could hear some 
great beast swimming towards them. 

" What can it be ? " said Bob in an awe-stricken whisper, as 
the strange snorting and splasliing grew nearer. 

" 'Nosserus,*' said Dick the sailor, who generally contrived to 
be pretty close to the youths, and depended upon them largely 
for his supplies of tobacco. " It's one on 'em having a wallow, 
like a big pig, somewhere in the shallows." 

"That's a tiger, isn't it!" said Tom Long, as a hoarse roar 
came over the smooth surface of the water. 

"Shouldn't wonder, young gentlemen, if it were ; but I'll say 
good night, for 'taint my watch, and I think a turn in won't be 
bad preparation for a hard day to-morrow." 

Everyone expected a busy day upon the morrow ; but it was 
long before the two youths could tear themselves away from the 
side of the vessel, for there was something so mysterious and 
weird in the look of the black water, in which the stars just glim- 
mered ; while right before them all looked dark and strange, 
save where there was the distant twinkling of the fire-flies, ever 
changing in position. 

" Hark ! " whispered Long ; " there's a splash again. That 
can't be close to the shore." 

" No, that's not a hundred yards from the ship. I say, Long," 
whispered Bob with a shudder, " I shouldn't much like to swim 
ashore. I'll be bound to say that was a crocodile." 

" I shouldn't wonder," was the reply ; and they still stood 
trying to make out the cause of the strange splashing noises, till, 
utterly tired out, they sought their cots, and were soon fast 

asleep. 

The getting up of the anchor roused the two lads soon after 
daybreak, by which time steam was up ; and with the faint 
morning mists slowly rising like silver gauze above the dense 
belts of trees, the steamer began slowly to move ahead. 

The tide was flowing, and the mangroves were deep in the 




water, though not so deep but that their curious network oi roots 
could be seen, like a rugged scaffold planted in the mud to sup- 
port each stem ; while as they slowly went on, the dense beds of 
vegetation, in place of being a mile off on either side, grew 
to be a half a mile, and soon after but a hundred yards, as 
the steamer seemed to be going straight into a broad bank 
ahead. 

As they approached, though, a broad opening became visible, 
where the course of the stream swung round to the right ; and 
after passing a point, the river rapidly contracted to about a 
hundred yards in width, and soon after was narrower, but still a 
smoothly flowing stream by the eternal mangroves. At last 
some signs of life began to appear, in the shape of an occasional 
crocodile, which glided off a muddy bank amidst the mangrove 
roots, into the water. Here and there, too, the long snout of 
one of these hideous reptiles could be seen, prone on the surface 
of the water, just above which appeared the eyes, with their pro- 
minences, as the reptile turned its head slowly from side to side, 
in search of some floating object that might prove to be good 
10 r food. 

The sight of these beasts was too much for the officers, who 
were so(5m armed with rifles, making shots at the muddyhued 
creatures, apparently with no other effect than for the long horny 
head to slowly sink beneath the water. 

Captain Smithers proved himself to be the best shot, for after 
splashing the water with a bullet close to the head of one of the 
saurians, his attention was drawn to another, between the steamer 
and the shore, apparently quite unconscious that the vessel could 
injure it in the least. 

Judging from the size of the head, this was apparently the 
largest crocodile that had been seen ; and taking long and care- 
ful aim, Captain Smithers at last fired, when the monster lashed 
the water furiously for a few moments with its tail. 

" He's hit, and badly," said Doctor Bolter. *' It's a big one, 
too. What a splendid specimen it would make ! " 

As he spoke, his w^ords as to the size of the creature were 
verified, for the crocodile suddenly shot itself half out of the 
water, showing its head, shoulders, and a good deal of its horny 
back, before turning over and diving down, displaying its hind 
legs and tail before it disappeared. 

" That was eighteen feet long if it was an inch," said the doctor, 

excitedly ; " but he has gone to the bottom." 

" Yes," said Captain SmiChers, quietly reloading, " we shall 
not see it again. How is your patient, Bolter? *' 





" Oh, pretty' well all right again, thanks. It was a lucky escape 
for the poor fellow." 

" Very ! " said Captain Smithers, thoughtfully, " What bird 
is that, doctor ? " 

" A white eagle," was the reply, as the doctor followed with his 
glasses the flight of a magnificent bird that rose from a stunted 
tree, flew across the river, and away over the mangroves on the 
other side. 

Soon after, as the steamer still made its way onward in mid- 
stream, the river being very deep, as shown by the man busy in 
the chains with the lead, a flame of blue suddenly seemed to 
dart from a mangrove root, and then another and another, as 
some of the gorgeously-coloured kingfishers of the peninsula shot 
off" along the surface up the stream. 

On still, and on, with every one on board eagerly on the look- 
out for novelties, but ail growing somewhat tired of the unbroken 
succession of dull green mangroves. At last, however, after 
many hours of slow and cautious progress, the mangroves gave 
place to tall and beautiful palms, showing evidently that the 
steamer was now beyond the reach of the tide ; and this was 
farther proved by the fact that the stream was now dead against 
them, running pretty swiftly, but, in place of being muddy, 
delightfully clear. 

Faces that had looked long and solemn as the supposition had 
grown stronger that the country was nothing better than a man- 
grove swamp, became more cheery of aspect, especially when, 
through an opening in the dense clumps of palms with their 
feathery tops, the blue line of a distant range of hills could be seen. 

Then came, as they rounded a point, the first trace of human 
habitation, in the shape of a Malay village, which in the distance 
bore a marvellous resemblance, in its steep gabled roofs thatched 
with palm-leaves, to some collection of cottages in far-distant 
England. But soon it was seen that every cottage was raised 
upon posts, that the walls were of woven reed or split bamboo, 
and that the trees that shaded them were cocoa nut and areca 

palms. 

Onward still, but more slowly and cautiously, lest the steamer 
should take the ground. Now and then scattered patches of 
cultivation were seen, in the shape of paddy fields ; clusters of 
fruit-trees stood here and there ; native boats were drawn right 
up on the mud, or secured to posts ; and now and then buffaloes 
could be seen, standing knee-deep in the water, with dark-skinned 
children running to and fro, terribly excited at the sight of the 
strange ship. 





Onward still, hour after hour, past village after village, wonder- 
fully same in appearance, and the river still kept broad and 
deep enough for the navigation of the steamer, till night came 
on, and she was anchored in mid-stream, with the wild jungle 
coming close down to the water's edge on either side. 

At early morn the journey was continued till a broad reach of 
the river was ascended, at the far end of which was a good-sized 
island, in which was a palm-thatched building of some conse- 
quence, while, only separated from it by a narrow arm of the 
river, stood the largest collection of houses they had seen, with 
what was evidently a mosque by the river side. There was an 
abundance of boats too, and what strongly resembled a stockade; 
but what most took up the attention of all on board were a 
couple of long, low, well-made vessels, each displaying a curious 
figure-head bearing a faint resemblance to some fabulous monster; 
and in these armed boats both the soldiers and sailors of the 
little expedition were quite right in believing that they saw' 
nothing more nor less than the much-talked-of vessels of the 
kris-bearing pirates of Malaya, the well-known, much-dreaded 
p rah us. 



CHAPTER VI. 



HOW TOM LONG TRIED THE DURIAN. 

A LITTLE bustle on deck, the rattling of chains, the splash of an 
anchor, and Her Majesty's ship " Startler" ¡ª well manned, and 
armed with guns that could send shot and shell crashing through 
the town on the river's right bank ¡ª swinging to her moorings ; 
for she had reached her destination ¡ª the campong, or village, of 
Sultan Hamet, the native Malay potentate, who was under 
British protection, and who sought our aid to rule his land 
beneficially, after our manners and customs, and who now pro- 
fessed the most ardent friendship for those who were ready to do 
their duty ; though the trust they felt in the Malays was not 
untempered by suspicion ¡ª in some cases, perhaps, with fear. 

It was a very busy time for all, and after the " Startler '* had 
been made what Dick the sailor called snug ¡ª that is to say, 
firmly anchored head to stream, for they were now far above the 
reach of the tide ¡ª a strong party of the blue jackets were landed 
upon the pleasantly umbrageous island, along with the soldiers ; 
for this island was to be the site of the residency, and it proved 
to have four good-sized buildings amidst the trees, which had 
been roughly prepared by Sultan Hamet*s orders. 

Doctor Bolter was almost the first man to land, and for a long 
time he was fussily perspiring about, as he abused the sanitary 
arrangements of the place to every man he met, pausing last of 
all to stand mopping his face in front of Bob Roberts and Tom 
Long. 

" Pretty sort of a wilderness to bring us to, young gentlemen !" 
he exclaimed. " I don't know what to start at next. The place 
will be a very hot-bed of fever, and we shall all be swept away." 

" What do you say to this for a neat spot, doctor ? " said Bob 

Roberts. 

" Neat spot ? what for ? " 
** Burying ground." 

** Burying ground ? What do you mean, sir?*' 




" To bury us all decently, doctor/' said Bob, grinning. '* And 
I say, doctor, who's to bury the last man ? " 

" If you were under my charge, Master Bob Roberts," said the 
doctor, panting with the heat, " I should reduce that vital force 
of yours a little, sir." 

** Thanky, doctor. But I say, doctor, which is to be the resi- 
dent's house ? " 

" That, sir ; and those three buildings are to be turned into 
barracks, and fort, and officers' quarters ; and how I am to get 
them all into a sanitary state, I don't know." 

But the doctor did manage it somehow in the following days, 
when, in spite of the heat, every one worked with a will ; the 
resident's house was improved, and boats were constantly going 
to and from the " Startler," whose hold was something like a 
conjuring trick, as it constantly turned out household necessaries 
and furniture. Handy workmen amidst the soldiers and Jacks 
were busy, fitting, hammering, and nailing ; so that in a very 
short time the resident's house began to grow ship-shape. 

At the same time the officers' quarters were being prepared, 
and the barracks as well \ while plans were made to strengthen 
the fort, dig ditch, form glacis, and generally make the place 
tenable against a possible enemy. 

Plenty of Malays were enlisted to help ; but beyond bringing 
wood, and acting as carriers, they did not prove to be very valu- 
able workers. But all the same, the preparations went on, various 
chiefs coming across in their boats from time to time, watching 
with no little wonder the changes that were being effected, talk- 
ing together a good deal about the stands of arms in the little 
barracks, and the nine-pounder field-pieces that were brought 
ashore from the " Startler's " hold. 

The inexhaustible bottle was nothing to that ship, for no sooner 
did the adjutant make out a list of requisitions, and send in, than 
the hold began to disgorge, and boat-loads of stores came ashore j 
till, in a marvellously short time, the white tents, saving one or 
two large ones, disappeared from where they had been first set 
up amongst the trees, and with a celerity that perfectly astounded 
the Malay visitors, the island assumed an aspect that seemed to 
say the English visitors meant to stay. 

Meanwhile, the country people grew less shy, and boats came 
with fruit and rice for sale, one of the first being visited by Bob 
Roberts ¡ª Tom Long, who had evidently meant to be there before 
him, coming directly after. 

The ladies had landed and taken possession of their new abode, 
where several of the soldiers were busy forming a garden ; and it 





had struck both the admirers of Miss Linton that an offering or 
two of fruit and flowers would be very acceptable, after the long 
confinement on ship board. 

The sampan, or native boat, that the two lads had come to 
visit, was fastened to a rough bamboo landing-stage, that had 
been one of the first things fitted up at the island ; and, to their 
great delight, they could see that the boat was stored with various 
vegetable productions, some of which were sufficiently attrac- 
tive to make the lads' mouths water, to the forgetting of the 
main object of their visit. 

" Hallo, soldier .' " said Bob Roberts, as he saw Tom Long 
come up, looking very aggressive. 

" Hallo, sailor boy ! " said Tom Long, superciliously ; and 
then they stood looking at each other, quite unconsciously like 
a couple of Malay game cocks in bamboo cages, on the afterpart 
of the sampan. These two pugnacious birds were evincing a 
strong desire for a regular duel; but as the bamboo bars of their 
cages prevented a near approaci', they stood there ruffling their 
plumes, and staring hard in each other's faces. 

** Seems a strange thing that a man can't come down to buy a 
little fruit and some flowers, without your watching him," said 

Bob, at last. 

"I wasn't w*itching you, boy," said Tom Long, superciliously. 
" There, spend your penny, my man, and go about your business." 

" Look here, my stuck-up red herring," cried Bob, setting his 
teeth hard, " Captain Horton said that the naval officers were to 
set an example of gentlemanly behaviour before th^ natives, or 
I'll be blowed, Mr Tom Long, if I wouldn't punch your head." 

" Blowed ¡ª punch head/' sneered Tom Long ; " that's gentle- 
manly, certainly." 

" Look here," said Bob, who was stung to the quick by the 
truth of this remark; "do you want to fight, Mr Tom Long?" 

** Mr T, Long presents his compliments to the middy boy of 
the 'Startler,' and begs to inform him that when her Majesty's 
officers fight, it is with some one worthy of their steel." 

" Ha, ha I Haw, haw ! Ho, ho, ho I " laughed Bob, cutting a 
caper expressive of his great amusement. " Her Majesty's 
officers ¡ª some one worthy of their steeL Ha, ha, ha, ha ! I say, 
Tom Long, how happy and contented her Majesty must feel, 
knowing as she does that the gallant officer, Ensign Long, is 
always ready to draw his sword in her defence. Here, you stop ! 
I got here first." 

"Sahib wants my beautiful fruit,'' said one of the dark-faced 
men in the sampan, towards which Tom Long had stepped 





" Hallo ! " said Bob, going up. " You are not a Malay ? " 

" No, sahib : I Kling, from Madras. Sell fruit ¡ª flowers. 
This Malaya man." 

He pointed to a flat-nosed, high-cheek-boned man with him, 
who was dressed in the inevitable plaid sarong of bright colours, 
and wore a natty little plaited-grass cap upon his head. 

Bob turned, and saw that this man carried a kris stuck in the 
folds of his sarong, which had slipped from the hilt, and he was 
now busy with a little brass box and a leaf. This leaf of one of 
the pepper plants he was smearing with a little creamy-looking 
mixed lime from the brass box, on which he placed a fragment 
of betel nut, rolled it in the leaf, thrust it into his mouth, which 
it seemed to distort, and then began to expectorate a nasty red 
juice, with which he stained the pure water. 

** Hope you feel better now," said Bob, who, in his interest 
in the Malay's proceedings, had forgotten all about the squabble 
with Tom Long. " Ugh ! the dirty brute ! Chewing tobacco's 
bad enough ; but as for that ¡ª Vd just like to get the armourer's 
tongs and fetch that out of your mouth, and then swab it 
dean." 

" No speak English ; Malaya man," said the Kling laughing, 
" Chew betel, very good, sahib. Like try?" 

*' Try ! No," said Bob, with a gesture of disgust. " Here, I 
say ; we'll buy some fruit directly : let's have a look at your 
kris." 

The Kling, who seemed to have quite adopted the customs of 
the people amongst whom he was, hesitated for a moment, look- 
ing suspiciously at the two lads, and then took the weapon he 
wore from his waist, and held it out. 

Bob took it, and Tom Long closed up, being as much inte- 
rested as the midshipman. 

" I say, Tom Long," the latter said, with a laugh, " which of 
us two will get the first taste of that brown insect's sting?" 

" You, Bob," said Tom Long, coolly. " It would let out a 
little of your confounded impudence." 

" Thanky," said Bob, as he proceeded to examine the weapon 
with the greatest interest, from its wooden sheath, with a clumsy 
widened portion by the hilt, to the hilt itself, which, to European 
eyes, strongly resembled the awkwardly formed hook of an um- 
brella or walking-stick, and seemed a clumsy handle by which 
to wield the kris. 

" Pull it out," said Tom Long, eagerly ; and Bob drew it, to 
show a dull ragged-looking two-edged blade, and of a wavy 
form. It was about fifteen inches long, and beginning about 





three inches wide, rapidly narrowed down to less than one inch, 
and finished in a sharp point. 

" It's a miserable-looking little tool," said Bob. 

" Good as a middy's dirk," said Tom Long, laughing. 

"I don't know so much about that," said Bob, making a stab 
at nothing with the kris. '* I say, old chap, this is poisoned, 
isn't it?" 

** No, sahib," said the Kling, displaying his white teeth. 

" But the Malay krises are poisoned," said Bob. " Is his ? *' 

He nodded in the direction of the Malay, who was trying to 
understand what was said. 

" No, sahib, no poison. What for poison kris ? " 

" Make it kill people, of course," said Bob, returning the lusty- 
looking weapon to its scabbard. 

" Kris kill people all same, no poison," said the Kling, taking 
back his dagger. " 'Tick kris through man, no want no poison, 
sahib." 

" He's about right there, middy," said Tom Long. '* Here, 
let's look at some fruit" 

This brought Bob Roberts back to the object of his mission ; 
and realizing at once that Tom Long's object was a present, he, 
by what he considered to be a lucky inspiration, turned his 
attention to the flowers that were in the boat. 

For the Malays are a flower-loving people, and there is nothing 
the dark beauties of this race like better than decking their jetty- 
black hair with white and yellow sweet-scented blossoms. 

Bob was not long in securing a large bunch of arums, all soft 
and white, with the great yellow seed vessel within. To this he 
added a great bunch of delicately tinted lotus, and then sat down 
on the edge of the boat to see what Long would purchase. 

Tom Long was hard to please ; now he would decide on a 
bunch of delicious golden plantains, and then set them aside in 
favour of some custard apples. Then he wondered whether the 
ladies would not prefer some mangoes ; but recollecting that 
they had had plenty of mangoes, and the delicious mangosteen 
in India, he decided upon some limes and a couple of cocoa- 
nuts, when the Kling exclaimed, "Why not sahib buy durian?" 

" What the dickens is durian ? " said Tom. 

" Durian best nice fruit that grow, sahib." 

"Oh, is it?" said Tom. "Then let's have a look." 

The Kling said something to the Malay, who stooped down, 
and solemnly produced what looked like a great spiney nut, 
about as large as a boy's head. 

" That durian, sahib," said the Kling, smiling. 



" Oh, that*s durian, is it ? " said Tom, taking the great fruit ia 
his hands, and turning it over and over, 

"Nice-looking offering for a lady," said Bob Roberts, laughing, 

Tom Long looked up sharply, and was about to speak ; but 
he said nothing, only kept turning the great fruit over and over. 

"Taste nice, most nice all fruit, sahib," said the Kling. 

" Here, let's try one," said Bob, laying down his flowers ; and 
the Kling signed to his companion to give him another, which the 
Malay did with solemn importance, not a smile appearing on his 
face, nor a look suggestive of his being anxious to sell the fruit 
in the boat. 

The Kling took the great wooden fruit, laid it on the thwart of 
the boat, and reaching a heavy knife from the side, he inserted 
it at the head of a faint line, one of ^\q, to be seen running down 
the wooden shell of the fruit, and following this mark, he was able 
to open the curious production, and divide it into portions like 
an orange. In each of these quarters, or fifths, were two or three 
great seeds, as large as chestnuts, and these were set in a quantity 
of thick buttery cream or custard. 

" Well, all I can say is that it's precious rum-looking stuff," 
said Bob. " Which do you eat, the kernels, or this custardy 
stuff?" 

" No eat seeds, sahib ; eat other part," said the Kling. 

"Come along, soldier," said Bob; "Til eat one bit, if you 
will ? " 

Tom Long looked too much disgusted to speak, but in a half- 
offended manner he picked up another quarter of the durian, and 
examined it attentively. 

" Phew ! " ejaculated Bob, looking round, " What a horrible 
smell. There must be something floating down the river." 

They both glanced at the flowing silvery waters of the river, 
but nothing was in sight. 

"It*s getting worse," said Tom Long, "Why, it*s perfectly 
dreadful." 

"It's this precious fruit," exclaimed Bob suddenly; and 
raising his portion to his nose, " Murder 1 " he cried ; " how 
horrid 1" and he pitched his piece overboard. 

"Why, it's a bad one," said Tom Long, sharply: and he 
followed the middy's suit. 

The Kling raised his hands in dismay ; but leaning over the 
side, he secured the two pieces of durian before they were out 
of reach, and turned to his customers. 

"Good durian ¡ª buteful durian," he exclaimed. "Alway 
smell so fashion," 




-' Wliat I " cried Bob, " do you mean to tell me that stufifs fit 
to eat ? " 

The Kling took up the fruit ; and smelt it with his eyes half 
closed, and then drawing in a long breath, he sighed gently, as 
if with regret that he might not indulge in such delicacies. 

"Bess durian," he said, in an exaggerated ecstatic manner. 
" Quite bess ripe.'* 

Bob stooped down and retook a portion of the strange fruit, 
smelt it cautiously, and then, taking out a knife, prepared to 
taste it. 

** You are never going to eat any of that disgusting thing, are 
you, sailor ? " cried Tom Long. 

" I'm going to try it, soldier," said Bob coolly, " Come and 
have a taste lad." 

In the most matter-of-fact way, though quite out of bravado 
on account of Tom Long's disgusted looks, Bob took a long 
sniff at the durian. 

" Well, it is a little high,'' he said, quietly. " Not unlike bad 
brick-kiln burning, with a dash of turpentine." 

" Carrion, you mean," said Tom Long. 

** No, not carrion," said Bob, picking out a good-sized frag- 
ment of the fruit upon his knife \ " it's what the captain calls 
sui generis. ^^ 

" All burra sahib like durian," said the Kling, showing his 
white teeth. 

"Then the burra sahibs have got precious bad taste," said 
Tom Long, just as Bob put the first piece of the fruit into his 
mouth, rolled his eyes, and looked as if he were about to eject 
it into the stream, but did not ; gave it a twist round, tasted it ; 
looked less serious ; began to masticate ; and swallowing the 
piece, proceeded to take a little more. 

" There, it won't do, Bob Roberts,'* said Tom Long ; " say it's 
horrible, like a man. You can t deceive me. What does it 
taste like ? " 

" Don't know yet," said Bob trying the second piece. 

" What a jackass you are to torture yourself like that, to try 
and take me in, middy ! " 

Bob h*^.lped himself to a little more. 

" Well, what does it taste like ? " 

" Custard," said Bob, working away hard, and speaking 
between every dig of his knife; "candles, cream cheese, onion 
sauce, tipsy cake, bad butter, almonds, sherry and bitters, 
banana, old shoes, turpentine, honey, peach and beeswax. 
Here I say ; give us a bit more, old cock." 




Tom Long was astounded, for after finishing the frst piece 
of the evil-smelling dainty, Bob had begun the seconJ, and was 
toiling at it with a patient industry that showed Yis thorough 
appreciation of the most peculiar fruit in the world. 

" Tipsy cake, bad butter, old shoes, peach and beeswax," and 
the other incongruities, rang in Long's ear ; and to prove that he 
was not deceiving him, there was Bob eating away as if his soul 
were in the endeavour to prove how much he could dispose of 
at one go. 

It was too much for Tom Long ; his curiosity was roused to 
the highest point, and as the Kling was smilingly watching Bob, 
Tom signed to the Malay to give him a piece. 

The solemn-looking Asiatic picked up another fruit, and while 
Tom looked impatiently on, it was opened, and a piece handed 
to him, which he took, and with Bob's example before his eyes 
took a greedy bite ¡ª uttered a cry of disgust ¡ª and flung the piece 
in hand at the giver. 

The Malayan character has been aptly described as volcanic. 
The pent-up fire of his nature slumbers long sometimes beneath 
his calm, imperturbable, dignified exterior ; but the fire lies 
smouldering within, and upon occasions it bursts out, carrying 
destruction before it. 

In this case Tom Long's folly ¡ª worse, his insnJt to the 
master of the sampan ¡ª roused the fiery Malay on the instant 
to fury, as he realized the fact that the youth he looked upon 
as an infidel and an intruder had dared to oflfer to him, a 
son of the faithful, such an offence ; then with a cry of rage, he 
sprang at the ensign, bore him backwards to the bottom of the 
boat ; and as the midshipman started up, it was to see the 
Malay's deadly, flame-shaped kris waving in the air. 



CHAPTER VII. 



HOW DICK RELATED THE VISIT, 

With a cry of horror Bob Roberts leaped forward, and caught 
the Malay's wrist in time to avert the blow, the Kling starting 
forward the next instant, and helping to hold the infuriate 
Asiatic ; while Tom Long struggled up and leaped ashore, where 
a knot of soldiers and sailors were gathering. 

"Don't say anything, Tom," cried Bob. "Here you ¡ª tell 
him he did not mean to offend him," he continued to the Kling, 
who repeated the words ; and the Malay, who had been ready 
to turn on the midshipman, seemed to calm down and sheathed his 
kris ; while the Kling spoke to him again with the result that the 
offended man sat himself down in the boat, gazing vindictively 
at the young ensign ashore. 

" Here, no more durian to-day, thank you," said Bob, hand- 
ing the Kling a dollar. " And look here, you sir ; don't let that 
fellow get whipping out his kris on any of our men, or he'll be 
hung to the yard-arm as sure as he's alive." 

" He much angry, sahib," said the Kling, whose swarthy 
visage had turned of a dirty clay colour. " Soldier sahib hurt 
him much." 

*' Yes, but if we hadn't stopped him he'd have hurt my friend 
much more." 

As he spoke Bob nodded shortly to the Kling, and leaped ashore. 

"Sahib not take his flowers," said the latter, and dipping 
them in the river, and giving them a shake, he left the boat 
and handed the beautiful blossoms to the young sailor, who 
directly after joined Tom Long, who looked, in spite of his 
sunburnt visage, rather "white about the gills," to use Bob's 
expression. 

" That fellow ought to be shot I shall report this case," cried 
the ensign angrily, 

" I don't think I should," said Bob quietly. " You see yoa 
did upset the poor fellow, and they are an awfully touchy lot," 



" It was all your fault for playing me that confounded trick," 
cried Tom Long, passionately. 

*' Trick ? I played no trick," said Bob, indignant to a degree 
at the accusation. 

" You did," cried Tom Long, " humbugging me into eating 
that filthy fruit." 

" Why, it was delicious," cried Bob. " I should have gone on 
and finished mine if you hadn't made that upset." 

" I don't care ; it was a nasty practical joke," cried Tom 

Long, " and 1 beg your pardon, Roberts," he said, suddenly 

changing his tone, and holding out his hand. " I believe you 
saved my life." 

" Oh, nonsense 1 " said Bob. " He only meant to prick you 
with his kris." 

" Heaven defend me from all such pricks ! " said Tom Long, 
devoutly, as he held the middy's hand in his, '* I say, Bob 
Roberts, I wish you and I could agree better." 

" So do I," said Bob, giving the hand he held a hearty shake ; 
*' But we never shall. I always feel as if I wanted to quarrel 
with you, as soon as we meet." 

" So do I," said Tom Long. " You are such an aggravating 
little beggar." 

" It is my nature to," said Bob, laughing. " But you won't 
say anything about this affair, shall you ? It will be a lesson how 
to deal with the natives." 

" If you think I had better not, I won't," said Tom Long, 
thoughtfully. Then, with a shudder, " I say, I felt just as if I 
was going to have that horrid kris in me. I shall never forget 
this, Bob Roberts." 

" Oh, stuff and nonsense ! Here, I say, have one of these 
bunches of flowers, old fellow." 

" No, no ; I don't want them," said the ensign, colouring up, 

" Yes, yes ; take one. Quick, here are the ladies. Tm 
going to give my lotuses to Miss Sinclair,*' he said quietly. 
And as Tom Long's fingers closed upon the arums, the ladies, 
who were walking with the resident came close up. 

" Ah, Mr Long," said the latter, " what a lovely bunch of 
arums 1 " 

" Yes sir," said Tom, looking very red in the face ; " they're 
for the mess table." 

"Your lotuses are lovely, Mr Midshipman Roberts," said 
Miss Linton, smilingly greeting the frank-faced lad. 

"Aren't they, Miss Linton?" said Bob. " I'm just going to 
send them aboard to the first lufif; he's rather poorly." 




They parted ; and it was quite true, for after looking rather 
shame-facedly the one at the other, the ensign bore off his arums 
to the mess-room, and the lotuses were sent on board the 
"Startler" by the very next boat. 

There was nothing more said respecting the adventure with 
the Malay boatman; but the two youths, who were a good deal 
puzzled in their own minds as to whether they were friends or 
enemies, exchanged glances a day or two later, when stringent 
orders were issued respecting the behaviour of the Englishmen 
to the natives. The men of both services were warned to be 
very careful, especially as it was the custom for the Malays to 
carry the deadly kris. The character of the people too was en- 
larged upon, their pride and self-esteem ; and strict orders 
were given, to be followed by severe punishment if disobeyed, 
that the people and their belongings were to be treated with 
the greatest respect. 

Every one was as busy as could be, for there was an immense 
amount of labour necessary to get the place into a state satis- 
factory to the various officers. Great preparations were being 
made too for the first meeting with Sultan Hamet, though it 
was a matter of doubt whether he would come to the residency 
in state, or expect the English to call upon him in his palm- 
thatched palace. 

" He's a rum sort of a chap," Dick the sailor said, freely 
giving his opinion. " Sultan, indeed ! What call have they to 
say he's a sultan ? Why, Sergeant Lund, Billy Mustard, and that 
sick chap Sim, who went ashore with despatches, come back 
last night, and they say it's no more a palace as he lives in than 
a pig-sty. It's for all the world like a big bamboo bam, thatched 
with leaves." 

" What's that ? " said Bob Roberts, coming up, with the young 
ensign, to where two or three of the sailors were, under the trees, 
talking to a group of soldiers. 

" I was a telling of 'em about what Sergeant Lund told me, 
sir," said Dick, pulling his forelock, "that this here sultan as 
we've come here to protect lives in a place as is just like a big 
bamboo bam standing on stilts. And Lor' ha' mercy, they 
say it was a sight : with leaves, and cabbage stumps, and potato 
parings chucked about under the place ! " 

" Now come, Dick," cried the middy -, " no yarns, please." 

"Well sir, of course I don't mean real English cabbage 
stumps and potato parings, same as we has at home, but what 
answers for 'em here, and coky-nut huxes and shells, and banana 
rinds, and a nasty bad smelling kind o' fruit as they calls 
doo rings." 





Bob gave the ensign a comical look, 

" Why Billy Mustard says ¡ª and this here's a fack ¡ª as the smell 
o' them doorings." 

" Durians, Dick." 

"All right, sir," said the old sailor; "that don't make 'em 
smell a bit better ¡ª the smell o' them things knocked him slap 
off his feet." 

The men laughed, and old Dick went on ¡ª 

" Everything about the place was as ontidy as a bilge hole ; 
and when our ambassadors ¡ª " 

"Our what? "said Bob. 

" Well, them as carried the despatches, sir ¡ª got close up, they 
was told to wait because the sultan was asleep. When seeing 
as a reg'lar party of the Malays, every man with his bit of a 
toasting fork by his side, come round to stare at 'em, Sergeant 
Lund he says to himself, ' Lor' ! what a pity it is as I haven't got 
Private Tomkins, or Private Einns, or two or three more nice 
smart, handsome chaps o' that kind with me, instead of such a 
scuffy couple o' fellows as Sim and Mustard.' " 

Here, of course, there was a roar of laughter, for Privates 
Tomkins and Binns were amongst the listeners. 

" Come away," said Tom Long, frowning. ** I don't like 
mixing with our men." 

" No, no : stop," cried Bob. " They won't think any the less 

of us ; we're off duty now." 

Tom Long wanted to hear what was said, so he remained. 

"And one of our nice hansum young orficers," continued 
Dick, in the most solemn way, " and a middy and some smart 
Jacks." 

" And Dick Dunnage," said one of the soldiers. 

" Well, he did mention me, but I was too modest to say so." 

Here there was another laugh. 

" ' How so be,' " continued Dick, " he sez, ' must make the best 
o* what material we got ; ' so he pulls his men together, squares 
their yards, and coils down all their ropes tidy, tightens the 
breechings o' their guns, and lets the poor benighted savages of 
niggers have their fill o' staring at real British sogers. Then 
they turned civil, and brought 'em out drinks, and fruit, and 
pipes ; and they was very comfortable, till some one come out 
and said as the sultan was awake, and wanted his cocks, so the 
chap as went as interpreter told them ; and then there was a 
bustle, and some three or four chaps went and fetched some 
fighting cocks, and took 'em inside the bam ¡ª I mean the palace; 
and our fellows was kept waiting till the sergeant hears a reg'lar 



cock-a-doodle-doo, just for all the world as if he was at home, 
and he know'd by that as one of the birds had won. Just about 
a minute after some one come and beckoned him, and he goes 
up the steps into the palace, as had bamboo floors, and carpets 
lying about ; and there was the sultan up at one end, sitting on 
carpet, and all his wives and people about him." 

" How many wives had he got, Dick?" said the midshipman. 

"About a dozen, sir. But I'll just tell you how many he'd 
have had if my missus had been one on 'em." 

" How many, Dick?'* 

"Just one, sir; she'd clear out all the others in a brace o' 
shakes. She wouldn't stand none o' that nonsense. Why, 
bless yer art, there was one had got a golden pestle and 
mortar ¡ª " 

" Gently, Dick ! gently ! " said the midshipman. 

" It's a fack, sir, and as sure as I stand here ; and she was 
a bruising up betel nuts for him to chew, and another was mixing 
up lime, and another spreading leaves, whilst ¡ª there, I dursn't 
hardly tell you this here, because you won't believe it." 

" Let it off gently, Dick," said the middy, " and we'll try and 
bear it" 

" Well, sir, hang me if one of his wives ¡ª the oldest and ugliest 
of 'em ¡ª wasn't sitting there holden a golden spittoon ready for 

him to use whenever he wanted." 

There was another roar of laughter, and Dick exclaimed, ¡ª 
" There, you ask Sergeant Lund if every word a'most I've 

said ain't quite true " ¡ª which, with the exception of Dick's 

embellishment about the handsome sailors and soldiers, proved 

to be the case. 



CHAPTER VIII, 

TOM long's wound. 

Doctor Bolter had been very proud of the cure he had effected 

in the case of Adam Gray, whom, from that day forward, h-e 
looked upon in quite a different hght, obtaining his services as 
often as possible in carrying out what he called his measures for 
preserving the camp in health, and he was constantly sending 
Gray on missions to the major. But the doctor and his plans 
were set aside one morning, when there was an order for a 
general parade ; and it was evident that there was something im- 
portant on the way, for a good deal of bustle was visible on the 
deck of the steamer. 

The news soon leaked out that the resident and officers were 
to make a state visit, full of ceremony, to the sultan ; and in con- 
sequence there was a general turn out, in full review order, with 
the band. The sailors landed, and were drawn up on the shore, 
looking smart in their white, easy-fitting dress ; and the steamer's 
cutters were soon after busy, landing the greater portion of the 
troops with their officers, in full uniform ; while quite a crowd of 
Malays assembled on the beach, staring, some in wonderment, 
some manifestly in dislike, at the strangers. 

The grand muster took place beneath the shade of some large 
trees, as far as was possible, for the heat was intense. Every 
one was in his best ; and Ensign Long marched by Bob Roberts 
with a very bright sword beneath his arm, and putting on a pair 
of white kid gloves. 

The middy tried to take matters coolly ; but the thoroughly 
consequential air of his companion roused his ire, and he longed 
to do something to upset him. 

That was, however, impossible, for the arrangements were 
complete ; and the march inland, about a couple of miles, com- 
menced with the Malays now drawing off into the woods, till ¡ª 
what looked rather ominous ¡ª the little force was left entirely 
alone. 





The officers commented upon the fact, and felt a little sus- 
picious ; but their doubts were set aside by the appearance of a 
little party, of evidently some importance, for two, who seemed 
to be chiefs, were mounted upon small elephants, and these, by 
the voice of one of the party ¡ª a handsome, dark youth, in bril- 
liant silk sarong and baju ¡ª announced themselves as coming 

from the sultan to act as guides. 

This changed the state of affairs, and the idea that there might 
be treachery afoot was completely dismissed from the minds of 
all, save when, now and then, the gleam of a spear head was seen 
amidst the trees in the jungle ; and Major Sanders pointed out 
how easily they might be led into an ambush. 

Captain Horton was by his side, and that officer agreed that 
it would be easy ; but, at the same time, gave it as his opinion 
that the best policy they could aifect was an appearance of full 
confidence in the Malay potentate, while they kept strictly on 
their guard. 

Farther back in the line of troops Private Gray was marching 
along, feeling anything but easy in his mind ; for as he glanced 
now and then to his left, he kept making out the gleam of steel, 
or the white garments of some Malay amidst the trees ; and at 
last, just as Captain Smithers was abreast, he pointed out to him 
the fact. 

The captain felt disposed to resent it as a breach of discipline ; 
but the young man's manner was so earnest, that he nodded, and 
watchfully turned his head in the same direction. 

"What do you think then. Gray ?" said the captain. "They 
are only people taking an interest in what is, to them, a great 
sight" 

" I'm suspicious, sir, by nature," said Gray, " and I can't help 
feeling that we are living on the edge of a volcano." 

" Do you always make use of such fine language. Gray ? " said 
Captain Smithers with a sneer. 

** I beg your pardon, sir," was the reply ,* " I was trying to 
speak respectfully to my officer," replied Gray. 

Captain Smithers frowned, and felt annoyed with himself for 
his meanness. 

"Yes, yes, of course, Gray," he said, hastily; "but there is 
nothing to fear." 

" Nothing to fear 1 " thought Private Gray ; " and we are trust- 
ing ourselves entirely to these people, who are known to be 
treacherous ; and the ladies and the women of the regiment arc 
all on that island, protected by only a weak force ! " 

Strangely enough. Captain Smithers had very similar thoughts 




to these as they rambled on, in tolerable coolness now, for they 
were beneath the trees. 

They both thought afterwards that their fears were needless ; 
and following the guides, they soon after were formed up in front 
of the sultan*8 house and those of his principal men, all of which, 
though certainly somewhat better than the sergeant's account to 
Dick Dunnage would have led any one to expect, were of an 
extremely simple and lowly character. 

Here the officers waited for their audience of the great man, 
Mr Linton being particularly anxious to make arrangements for 
carrying out the political business upon which he was engaged ; 
but after waiting half an hour, one of the principal chiefs came 
out to announce that the sultan was too unwell to receive them. 

The English officers flushed up, and looked upon the message 
as an insult, and for the moment there seemed a disposition to 
resent it ; but the wnse counsels of Mr Linton prevailed, and the 
order was given to march back. 

Just then the young chief who had acted as interpreter before, 
and who spoke very good English, approached the place where 
Bob Roberts and the ensign were standing. 

"I am very sorry," he said ; "I meant to ask you to refresh- 
ments. Will you take cigars ? '* 

They had only time to thank the young chief for his courtesy 
and take their places, as the march back was commenced ¡ª this 
time without guides, for none came forward, which was looked 
upon as so ominous a sign that extra care was taken, the men 
marching with loaded arms. 

The precautions were not unnecessary ; for they had hardly 
effected half their march, when there was the loud beating of a 
gong heard upon their right, followed by the same deafening din 
on the left. 

The men were steadied in the ranks, and every one was on the 
alert ; but still there came nothing more to cause alarm till they 
had arrived within half a mile of their landing-place, when, as 
they were passing through a more open portion of the track, there 
was a shout, and a shower of limbings came whizzing past them. 
Again a shout, this time on their left, and another shower of the 
keenly-pointed spears whizzed by. 

There was a short, sharp command or two as the soldiers 
faced outwards, and every other man fired, sending a ringing 
volley crashing through the forest. 

There was another din, made by the beating of gongs, and a 
few more spears were thrown, one of which struck Ensign Long ; 
and these were replied to by another sharp volley, which crashed 


through the trees, making the twigs and leaves rattle as they 
pattered down. Then there was a dead silence, as the troops 
waited for fresh orders. 

Bob Roberts, who was close by the ensign, turned pale as 
ashes as he saw the ensign stagger back, to stand literally pinned 
to a tree, in which the blade of the limbing had buried itself. 
All feeling of jealousy had passed away, and, catching Long by 
the hand, he gazed earnestly in his face. 

"Are you much hurt, old fellow?" he cried hoarsely, as he 
realized the fact that the keen spear had passed diagonally 
through the youth's breast before it buried itself in the soft 
endogenous tree. 

" I don*t know yet," said Tom Long quietly ; " but the brutes 
have ruined my best tunic." 

" Hang your tunic ! " cried Bob, excitedly. *' Here, fetch the 
doctor. No ; help here to get Mr Long to the residency. Bring 
up a dhooly." 

"I suppose I shall feel it when they draw out the spear," said 
Tom Long calmly. 

"Do you feel faint?" cried the middy. "Here, who has a 
little rack ? *' 

" Here's some water, sir, in my canteen," said Sergeant Lund. 

" Forward 1" rang out from behind just then; and then the 
voice of Captain Smithers made itself heard, 

" Who's that down ? " 

" Ensign Long, sir," some one said, 

" Poor lad 1 poor lad I '* cried the captain, " Ah, Long, my 
dear boy, how is it with you ? Good heavens ! Quick, my lads ; 
bring up a dhooly." 

" Hadn't we better get the spear out, sir ? " said Bob Roberts, 
anxiously. 

" Yes, out of the tree, of course," said the captain ; " but 
mind ¡ª steady I Here, let me. I won't hurt you more than I 
can help," he continued, as he drew the spear out of the palm, 
and then hesitated as to how they were to manage to carry the 
injured man, with the lengthy shaft passing through his chest. 

Tom Long solved the question himself by taking hold of the 
spear handle with both hands and giving it a tug, while every one 
present gazed at him with horror, expecting to see the terrible 
stains that must follow. 

Bob Roberts dragged out his handkerchief and rapidly doubled 
it, ready to form a pad to staunch the bleeding ¡ª rushing forward 
to clap it to the wound, as the ensign tore the spear from his 
breast 




** Open his tunic first," cried Captain Smithers ; and he bore 
Tom Long back on to the ground, tearing open his scariet 
uniform, while the injured object of his attentions began to work 
his left arm about. 

*' I say, gently," he said. ** I don't think I*m much hurt" 

" You don't feel it yet," cried Bob Roberts. 

*' Look out there ! '' cried a voice in authority somewhere 
behind ; and then a couple of men ran up with a light hospital 
litter for wounded or sick men. 

" It went ¡ª it went ¡ª *' said Tom Long, slowly. 

" Why, confound you, Long," said Captain Smithers j "youVe 
not been scratched.'* 

" No ; I do not think I am," said the ensign, getting up, feel- 
ing himself carefully about the chest "It went through my 
tunic and under my left arm." 

" Why, youVe got about six inches of padding in your coat/' 
said Bob Roberts, whose hands were busy about the young man's 
breast. 

" Yes," said Tom Long ; " more or less." 

'* Forward 1 " shouted Captain Smithers ; and the march was 
resumed, with Tom Long looking very woeful about the two 
holes that had been made in his scarlet tunic, and gradually 
growing terribly annoyed, as he saw Bob Roberts pretending to 
stifle his laughter; while the men, in spite of the danger on either 
side, tittered and grinned as they kept catching sight of the young 
officer's scarlet cloth wounds. 

Major Sandars was equally anxious with the resident to get 
back to the island, for a feeling of dread had risen up that the 
residency might have been attacked during their absence. In 
fact, it seemed now that they had been out-generalled ; and if 
their fort, and provisions, and stores should be in the hands of 
the Malays, their position would be perilous in the extreme. 

As Bob Roberts went on, he found the men eagerly discussing 
the matter, not from a feeling of fear, but of love of excitement ; 
and among others, Private Sim was saying in a low voice, that if 
he had only been well and strong, nothing would have pleased 
him better than fighting his way back through the jungle, " any- 
wheres ¡ª to the world's end if they liked." 

Meanwhile, though it was evident that there was a large body 

of Malays on their right, the answer they had got to their first 
attack had kept them off, and the long line of troops and blue- 
jackets went on unmolested by their enemies. Every precaution 
was taken ; and in some of the denser portions of the jungle they 
regularly felt their way with advance guards and flankers, who, 



poor fellows, had a most tough job to force their way through the 
tangled creepers and undergrowth. 

At length, however, the river was reached, and it was evident, 
to the great delight and relief of all, that the island was safe, and 
the steamer lay in its old position, unmolested by prahu or attack 
from the shore. 

Every man breathed more freely on seeing this ; and the boats 
coming off, the whole party were rapidly transferred to steamer 
and to isle, where a council was called, and the situation 
discussed. 

It was a peculiar position for the little force which had been 
sent up the country to help and protect Sultan Hamet, who, in 
return, had refused to see Her Majesty's representative, and 
allowed them to be attacked by his people on their way back. 

The question to decide was, whether, after such an insult as 
they had received, the little force ought not to at once retire from 
their position, though the bolder spirits were in favour of holding 
it at all costs, and trying to read the sultan such a lesson as should 
scare his people from venturing to molest the English any more. 

The council was interrupted by an embassy of a couple of chiefs 
from the sultan himself, who solved the difficulty by announcing 
that the attack was not made by their ruler's people, but by a 
certain rajah, whose campong, or village, was a few miles up the 
river. This chief was a respecter of no one, but levied black 
mail of all who passed down the stream. Every boat laden with 
slabs of tin or bags of rice had to pay toll for permission to pass 
on in peace ; and if resistance was offered, he had guns mounted 
upon his stockade, and a couple of well-armed prahus, whose 
crews liked nothing better than confiscating any boat whose 
owner endeavoured to resist the rajah's demands. 

Any doubts as to the truth of this story were set aside by the 
sultan's earnest request that the English officers should at once 
proceed up the river and severely punish this rajah, who was a 
thorn in Hamet's side. 

With the promise that the matter should have proper con- 
sideration, the two chiefs took their departure ; and the rest of 
the evening was spent in examining different Malays from the 
village, all of whom told the same story, that it was Rajah Gan- 
tang who had made the attack, and that he was a perfect scourge 
to the people round. 

The next day further investigations were made ; and had any 
doubt remained, it was chased away by the appearance of two 

long war prahus, pulled by a large number of rowers, and crammed 
with Malays. 



These vessels were allowed to float gently down with the 
stream, stem foremost, when, as much out of bravado as any- 
thing, several shots were fired from the small brass swivel guns 
on board, the little balls rattling through the steep roof of the 
men's quarters ; while before a gun could be brought to bear, the 
oars rapidly plashed the water, and the two prahus were swept 
back round a wooded point up stream, well out of sight. 

This was sufficient for the officers in command, who issued 
such orders as placed all the men in a state of the most intense 
excitement, for it was evident that there was to be an expedition 
up the river to punish the audacious chief, who was probably in 
profound ignorance of the strength of the power he had braved. 



CHAPTER IX. 



A NIGHT ATTACK, AND A MISFORTUNE, 

It seems a curious thing to a man of peace that a man of war 
should be in a state of high delight at the prospect of an engage- 
ment wherein he may lose his life ; but the fact is, that when two 
or three hundred men are bound to attack some enemy, each 
single individual knows full well that somebody will be wounded, 
perhaps killed, but believes that it will not be himself. 

So it was then that on board the " Startler " there was no little 
excitement. The grindstone was in full use to sharpen cutlasses, 
and in addition there was a great demand made on the armourer 
for files to give to the lethal weapons a keener edge, one which 
was tried over and over again, as various messmates consulted 
together as to the probability of taking off a Malay's head at a 
blow. 

" What youVe got to do, my lads," said old Dick, " is to keep 
'era off. You as has rifles and bagnets always show 'em the 
pynte ; and you as fights with your cutlashes, keep 'em well away 
off your sword arm ; then you'll be all right." 

Capital advice if it could be acted upon, and a way of avoiding 
all kris wounds, but useless against the Malays' other dangerous 
weapon, the limbing or lance. 

All the preparations were made over-night, so that long before 
daybreak the expedition could be well on the way, the object 
being to surprise the stockade and its defenders, and bum the 
bamboo fortification and the prahus. 

The force was to consist of fifty soldiers, twenty-five marines, 
and fifty blue-jackets, who were to embark in the steamer's boats, 
two of which were provided with small breech-loading pieces 
running on slides, and under the charge of the sailors. 

Water, provisions, plenty of spare ammunition, all were handed 
down, and two hours after midnight, the boats that were to con- 
vey the soldiers ranged up alongside the landii>g-place, and in 



due time the embarkation took place, the soldiers being under 
the command of Captain Smithers, the sailors under that of the 
first lieutenant of the "Startler." 

A guide had been found in the person of a native fisherman, 
who, upon coming to the island the day before, had been de- 
tained, so that he should not communicate with the shore, and 
so give warning of the expedition. Not that there was any fear, 
for the Malay was in a high state of delight at the idea of the 
rajah meeting his match. 

From this man they learned that for many years past Rajah 
Gangtang had been a perfect scourge to the river. He was 
famous for his piracies and his daring. Sultan Hamet dreaded 
him ; and it was only to strengthen his position against the war- 
like rajah, who was too strong for him, that Hamet had entered 
into his alliance with the British, and invited the presence of a 
resident and the troops. 

This was satisfactory, for the idea of the sultan proving trea- 
cherous was a suggestion of a complicated knot that it would 
take no end of policy to undo. Whereas, if it was all true about 
Rajah Gantang, his defeat and the breaking up of his power 
would be hailed with delight, and work greatly towards the pacifica- 
tion of a country terribly broken up by petty quarrels, strengthen 

Hamet's position, and give inimical chiefs a lesson on the power 

of the British forces that they were not likely to forget 

It was soon after two o'clock that the soldiers were mustered 
down to the boats, and silently took their places, just as through 
the mist, and with muffled oars, three more boats came slowly 
abreast of them, and after a brief colloquy moved off, with in- 
structions that there should be no talking on board. 

Fortunately for the expedition, though it was misty it was not 
so dark but that the leaders could follow the little light sampan 
of the Malay fisherman, who, apparently without any difficulty, 
sent his frail boat onward against the stream. 

It was a weird procession through the mist, which gave the 
boats a fantastic, unreal appearance, while the shores looked, 
where the fog broke or floated up, strange, dark, and full of mys- 
tery. Every now and then there was a low echoing splash in the 
water, which told of some great reptile disturbed from its resting- 
place upon a muddy bank. Then those in the boats heard 
strange cries coming from a distance in the jungle, to be answered 
by other calls, some farther distant, some near at hand, telling 

that the various nocturnal creatures were busy securing food 
before the sun should drive them to their hiding-places in the 
darkest recesses of the forest 




"What's that?" whispered Bob Roberts to old Dick, who was 
beside him in the foremost boat 

" Sounds like something swimming, sir. There, you can hear 
it blowing." 

"Do you think one of the boats has upset," whispered Bob, 
excitedly, as he leaned over the gunwale and tried to pierce the 
mist. 

" 'Taint likely, sir. Wouldn't they shout if they was turned 
upl Leastwise our chaps would; there's no counting for what 
soldiers might do, though. I shouldn't say as they'd let their 
selves drown without a squeak. That there's a tiger swimming 
'crost the river, that's what that is." 

" Get out," exclaimed the middy ; "just as if a great cat would 
take to the water. Hist 1 I say, Doctor Bolter 1 " 

" Yes," was whispered back from the next boat 

" Would tigers swim ? " 

" Yes. There's one trying to cross the river now." 

" What did I tell you, Mr Roberts ? " growled old Dick, softly. 

** Here, give me your rifle, marine ; "^ said Bob, excitedly. " I 
should like a shot at a tiger." 

"Silence in that boat 1" said Captain Smithers sharply; and 
the oars went on dipping softly, while Bob Roberts sat and 
listened till the panting noise of the swimming creature died 
away. 

" I wonder whether Ensign Long 's in the expedition ? " said 
Bob, after a pause. 

" Yes, sir ; please I see him," said one of the sailors, " He 
got into one of the boats, wrapped up in a big grey great-coat." 

"I hope he won't get wounded this time," said Bob. And 
the men all laughed ; for Ensign Long's wound was a subject 
that afforded them no little amusement 

Then the procession went on, the boats gliding along in won- 
derful silence. Sometimes a glimpse of the dark foliage told 
them that they were a little too near either bank, but on the 
whole the Malay led them a very correct course along the centre 
of the stream, which wound here and there, sometimes contracting 
its banks, sometimes widening out, but always running swift, 
deep, and strongly, downward towards the sea. 

The mist grew thicker, and hung so low down upon the water 
that at last the boats had to proceed very slowly, a rope being 
paid out from one to the other, so that there should be no mis- 
take, otherwise it was quite within the range of possibility that 
one or the other would go astray, and be wanting at some critical 
time. A similar plan was carried out with the sampan, during 



the latter part of the journey, for it was often invisible; and so at 
last they felt their way onward in silence, till the Malay allowed 
his sampan to drift alongside the bows of the leading boat, and 
whispered to the interpreter his conviction that they were close 
up to the stockade. 

" Might be anywhere/' muttered the midshipman, 

** Yes, sir, it's a thick'un," growled old Dick j " and if I was in 
command o' this here expedition, I should give orders for all the 
Jacks to out cutlashes and cut the fog in pieces, while the sogers 
and marines forked it over with their bay'nets." 

"Silence, there!" came from one of the officers, just as a 
faint breeze began to spring up, as if to solve the difficulty ; 
breaking the fog into patches, and then forcing a way right 
through, so that it was swept to right and left of the river, pass- 
ing under the trees. 

The change was almost magical, for at the end of ten minutes 
the river was quite clear, and by the glittering starlight they 
could see the stockade on their right, while moored in front of 
it were two large prahus. 

The boats closed in for the officer in command to give his 
final orders for the attack, and every man's heart beat fast with 
excitement, as he clutched his weapons. 

They had no knowledge of the enemy's strength ; but trusting 
to a night surprise, they felt satisfied of being able to put him to 
flight ; so two boats were sent to board the prahus, while the 
three others made for the stockade, one to attack in front, while 
the others landed on either side, to take it in the rear, expecting 
an easy task, for there was not a sign of life as far as they could see. 

But if the leaders of the expedition counted upon trapping 
the Malays asleep, they were mistaken. There is too much of 
his native tiger in the Malays' nature for such a march to be 
stolen upon them ; and, just as the boats separated, and began 
rapidly to advance, the silence was broken by the deafening 
clangour of a gong, lights appeared suddenly in tJie stockade and 
in both the prahus, and to the astonishment of the attacking 
force, there was the flashing of muskets, the louder roar of the 
lelahs or small brass guns, and the surface of the river was 
splashed up in all directions by the bullets. 

Fortunately the aim was bad, and the boats had separated, 
so that no one was injured, as, with a loud cheer, the sailors 
made their oars bend, the waters lapped and splashed beneath 
the bows of the boats, and soldier and marine waited eagerly for 
the command to fire. 

But this was not given ; for Captain Smithers felt that if the 





task was to be done, it must be achieved at the point of the 
bayonet ; so, bidding his men be steady, he waited till the boat 
he was in crashed amongst the thick reeds and grass growing 
along the water's edge 5 and then leaping out, lead his little 
company through the dense undergrowth, round to where he 
expected to find the entrance to the stockade, from which a 
lively fire was now being kept up, while a deep-toned roar told 
that the large gun in the boat attacking the face of the stockade 
had begun to speak. 

The party Ensign Long was with, under one of the lieutenants, 
had to make for the other side of the stockade, while the boat 
in which was Bob Roberts, being manned entirely by sailors and 
marines, had to attack the largest prahu. 

The men were sanguine and full of spirit, their only regret 
being that they had so far to go before they could reach the sides 
of the long prahu, which they found now on the move, her 
anchor having been slipped, so that she was slowly floating down 
the stream, as she kept up a lively fire against the boat. 

It seemed long, but not a minute could have elapsed before 
the boat was alongside, the bowman driving a Malay head over 
heels with the boat-hook, and then making fast, while the sailors 
let their well-secured oars swing, seized their rifles, and began to 
spring up the sides. 

** Up with you, my lads," roared Bob Roberts, who was armed 
with a cutlass far too large for him to handle in comfort. But it 
was easy enough to say, " Up with you ! " while it was excessively 
difficult to obey. Man after man tried to climb the side of the 
prahu, but only to slip back into the boat ; while those who had 
better success found it impossible to surmount the stout bamboo 

basket-work or matting, with which the sides were protected 
from assault 

Through this, spear after spear was thrUst j and after several 
ineffectual attempts to reach the deck, the sailors and marines 
began to retaliate by thrusting bayonet and cutlass through in 
return. A few shots were fired, but there was nothing to aim at ] 
though the Malays were not of that opinion, for they kept load- 
ing and firing the two lelahs on board, making a great deal of 
noise, but necessarily doing no mischief 

^ Back into the boat, my lads," cried the lieutenant in com- 
mand, as they floated down with the prahu, which evidently 
swarmed with men ; " well try round the other side." 

" Let me board them first, Mr Johnson," cried Bob excitedly. 

" No, no, my lad," was the reply. "What the men cannot do, 
you cannot." 




In the excitement of the men firing and making a fresh effort, 
as the boat was worked round the stem of the prahu, the 
lieutenant lost sight of Bob Roberts, who, after feeling terribly 
alarmed for the first few minates, had become accustomed to the 
firing and shouting, and then grown so excited and angry that 
he felt as if he could not stay in his place. Getting hold of a 
rifle, laid down by one of the men who tried to board the prahu, 
he had given vent to some of his excitement by loading and 
firing as fast as he could, sending bullet after bullet whistling 
through the tough screen, but doing no mischief to a soul ; and 
still the prahu floated steadily down the stream, getting farther 
and farther away from where the firing was on the increase ; the 
boats' guns sending an echoing report to roll along the surface 
of the water, and giving ample notice to those at the residency 
that the business was going on. 

As the boat Bob Roberts was in reached the other side of 
the prahu, the Malays, uttering loud yells, rushed over, and 
once more there was a desultory attack kept up and repelled ; 
for do all they could, not a sailor was able to surmount the tall 
screen. 

Several wounds had been received from the limbings, and the 
men believed that they had pretty well retaliated with the bayonet, 
but they could see nothing ; and checked as they had been, again 
and again, they were growing disheartened, and thinking what 
else they could do, when a loud yelling from the prahu, and the 
reports of several muskets, told of something fresh. 

" Where's Mr Roberts ? " said the lieutenant, suddenly. 

" Here he is, sir," replied old Dick ; and in the same breath, 
''No he ain't, sir. He was here just now." 

" Look out, my lads ! Seize those sweeps," said the lieutenant, 
as several long oars were now thrust out beneath the bamboo 
screen, and the Malays stabbed at the boat with them, trying to 
drive a hole through her bottom. 

Several of the sailors seized the long oars on the instant, and 
hung on, while some of their messmates tried to fire through the 
holes, with the result that long spears were now thrust through, 
and desparate stabs made at the attacking party. 

It was a wretched desultory fight, and the lieutenant was almost 
at his wits* end, for his spirit forbade his giving up, and all the 
time, no matter how bravely his men tried, they could not get on 
board the prahu. 

Just then it was observed by the men who held on by the 
sweeps, that a brass lelah was being thrust through a hole, and 
brought to bear upon them, when the result would have been 



death to several, and the sinking of the boat, if it was fired. 
The danger was, however, averted by old Dick, who seized a 
boat-hook, and hitching it on the prahu's side, gave so sturdy a 
haul that he drew the boat some six feet along, and closer 
alongside. 

He was just in time, for as the boat grated against the prahu 
there was a sharp ringing report, and the water was thrown up 
close astern. 

A sharp volley from the boat replied to this, probably with as 
good results ; and then thrusting with spear and bayonet went 
on in the darkness. 

"Confound it all, my lads ! we must get aboard her some- 
how," cried the lieutenant, stamping his foot with rage, as he 
stood up in the boat. " Here, make ready some of you, and 
follow me. Dick Dunnage, you keep her fast with the boat- 
hook." 

As he spoke the lieutenant parried a thrust with his sword, and 
replied to it with a shot from his revolver, letting both weapons 
then hang from his wrists by sword-knot and lanyard as, seizing one 
of the sweeps, he began to clamber up, followed by a dozen of 
the men. There was a confused roar of shouts, yells, and 
cheers mingled, as those left in the boat ceased firing, so as not 
to injure the boarding party, who made a desperate effort now 
to climb over the bamboo screen, little thinking that the missing 
midshipman had boldly climbed up a little ahead of where they 
were, mounted to the great bamboo spar that held up the screen, 
and then with a miserably ineffective weapon, to wit, his pocket- 
knife, set to work as he sat astride it, and sawn away at the 
rattans that held it up. 

It was a brave act, but an unlucky one. He had nearly 
succeeded in getting through, and he would have shouted out a 
warning, but that would have brought upon him the spears of the 
Malays ; so he cut away, and had been so successful that, as the 
boarding party made their desperate dash, down came the great 
bamboo with a rush. The screen went outwards, over the 

sailors, who fell back beneath it into the boat, while Bob 
Roberts felt himself describing a half circle in the air, before 
plunging out of semi-darkness into that which was total, as he 

went down, yards away from the boat, into the cold black watec 
one thought alone filling his mind, and that thought was¡ª 
crocodiles. 



CHAPTER X. 



HOW BOB ROBERTS WAS NOT DROWNED. 

For a few minutes it was a question of whether the boat would 
be swamped or no, as she lay beneath the great bamboo screen, 
which completely paralyzed the efforts of the crew. The prahu 
was still floating with the stream, and the boat being dragged 
along in her wake, while, awaking now to a sense of their 
assailants' position, the Malays hurriedly thrust out sweeps, and 
others fired, and hurled their spears, a couple of dozen of which 
stuck in the bamboo mat Dick in the stem, and a couple of 
the men in the bows, however, began a steady fire at the prahu, 
loading as rapidly as they could, while the men amidships cast 
off the awkward canopy, and, half stunned, but panting with rage 
and excitement, the lieutenant once more gave his orders. 

" Oars, lads !" he cried, "and give way. We shall have 'em yet" 

'* Boat ahoy 1 " came from out the darkness. 

" Why, that's young Roberts, sir," cried Dick. " Ahoy ¡ª y ¡ª y." 

" Help here ! " came from the stern again, 

" We shall lose the prahu," cried the lieutenant. 

*' But we must have Mr Roberts, sir," cried old Dick, ex- 
citedly. " Give the word, sir ¡ª stam all ¡ª and we'll overtake her 
arter wards." 

" Stam all, my lads, and do your best." 

" Ahoy ! " came once more, faintly, out of the darkness." 

"We're going away from him," cried the lieutenant "Pull 
round, my lads," he cried, seizing the tiller. " Now then, 
steady. Be smart there with a boat-hook. Roberts, ahoy ! " 

" Help, help," came again, from somewhere astern now, for 
the poor fellow was growing weak. 

For as he had plunged down, with the thought of the great 
reptiles uppermost in his mind, Bob Roberts had felt a chill of 
horror run through him that seemed for the moment to rob him 
of all power ; but as he rose to the surface again, and felt that he 
could breathe, he struck out manfully in the direction of the 




firing ; but in his confusion, after swimming for a minute, he 
found from the noise behind that he was making for the 
stockade, and he turned hastily to swim after the boat. 

It was no light task, dressed as he was. He had a sword in 
his belt, and on the other side a revolver, and his first thought 
was to rid himself of them ; but a strange feeling of dislike to 
parting with his weapons made him put off the act of throwing 
them away until he should feel that he was sinking ; so, guided 
by the flashes of the pieces that were being fired, he swam 
lustily in the direction in which he felt the boat must be. 

He called for help several times, but his voice was not heard 
by those to whom he appealed ; and as he felt himself being left 
behind, a cold chill of horror once more seized upon him, mak- 
ing his limbs seem heavy as lead, and paralyzing his efforts in a 
way that was terribly suggestive of death. 

Thoughts of the great slimy monsters being at hand to seize 
upon him, sent his blood rushing to his face in a way that made 
him giddy, and for a few moments he felt half mad with fear ; 
but calling upon his manhood, he mastered the nervous trepidation. 

" 'Taint English ¡ª 'taint game/' he cried aloud, with the water 
at his lip ; and checking the frantic desire to beat the surface 
with his hands in the natural last effort of a drowning creature, 
he swam steadily on, hailing the boat at intervals, but more and 
more feebly, as his despair increased ; for he felt that he was 
only a lad, and that his life was a mere nothing compared to a 
successful capture of the prahu. 

" They have gone after her," he groaned, as he uttered a de- 
spairing hail. And then the bright light of hope seemed to cross 

the darkness, for he heard a shout in reply, and then other 
answering hails to his cry for help, and he knew now that it was 
only a question of holding out till the boat could reach his side. 

Shouts came again and again out of the darkness, and he an- 
swered ¡ª each time more feebly, for his strength was ebbing fast. 
He could see the stars flashing in the water, and he fancied he 
could hear the splash of oars, and the sounds of voices ; then, 
too, he heard the crackle of distant musketry, and the roar of 
one of the boat guns. Then, as if he were in a dream, he could 
hear some one close at hand hailing him ¡ª but he could not 
answer now, only swim feebly on, with his clothes, and the 
weapons, and cartridges in his pouch, dragging him down. 

Then the stars above, and the stars on the water, seemed to be 
blotted out, and he was in utter darkness ¡ª strangling, but swim- 
ming still, beneath the stream. Then he seemed to see the stars 
again in a dim way^ and he heard a shout ; but he could not 




reply, for all was dark once more ; and lastly, in a dim misty 
state he felt a spasm, and a sensation of being dragged beneath the 
water, and he thought that one of the reptiles of the river had 
seized him ; and then he knew that he was lying in the bottom 
of the boat, and some one was pouring brandy between his lips. 

" I just ketched the glint of his white face under the water," 
said a voice which seemed to be Dick's, '* and ketched hold of 
his jacket. It was a near touch, and no mistake." 

" Give way, my lads, give way ! " was the next thing Bob 
Roberts heard ; and as if in a dream he made out that they were 
rowing fast in chase of the prahu, which, with all her sweeps out 
on either side, was going rapidly through the water, her object 
being to get down to the tidal way at the lower part of the river, 
where there were mangrove-fringed creeks and inlets by the 
hundred, offering her a secure hiding-place from her indefatigable 
assailant. 

" We shan't never ketch her, sir," growled Dick. 

" No," replied the lieutenant, sharply, " but we'll hang on to 
her to the last How far are we now from the steamer ? " 

" Not two miles, I should think, sir.*' 

" Make ready then, marines,*' he cried, " and fire after her ; 
hit her, if you can. Two fire at a time ¡ª mind, slowly and steadily. 
They will hear it on board, and be on the look-out, and if they 
don't sink her as she goes by them, why, it's a wonder." 

Almost directly after there was the report of a couple of rifles, 
and then two more at half-minute intervals, while right on ahead, 
in the darkness, they could hear the heavy beat of the prahu's 
sweeps, and knew that she was going more rapidly than they. 

"How are you now, Roberts?*' said the lieutenant, kindly. 

'* Coming round, Mr Johnson," said Bob. " Thank'ye for 
picking me up." 

^' Keep your thanks for to-morrow, Roberts," said the lieutenant, 
bitterly. ** How vexation's to make such a mess of the affair? " 

"There's another one a-coming, sir," said Dick, softly. "You 
can hear the oars beating right behind us, sir.'' 

The lieutenant listened. 

"There must be a great curve in the river here," he said, 
" one that we did not notice in the fog." 

"Then it's a precious big curve, sir, that's all I can say," 
exclaimed old Dick; " for if that ain't t'other prahu coming down, 
with all sweeps out, I'm a Dutchman." 

" They never can have failed the same as we have," exclaimed 
the lieutenant, listening. " No ¡ª yes ¡ª no. You are right, Dick, 
my man. Cease firing there. Make ready, my lads, and we'll 




plump every shot we have into this one as she comes abreast, 
and then lay the boat alongside, and board her in the confusion. 
Be ready, my lads, and then, you know, down with your rifles. 
Cutlasses must do it afterwards." 

A few minutes of intense excitement followed, during which 
time every man sat with his finger on the trigger, listening to the 
regular beat of the prahu's long oars as she came sweeping down 
at a rapid rate, evidently bent upon making her escape, like her 
consort, out to sea. 

** If we only had a bow gun," muttered the lieutenant, " No ; 
you be still, Roberts," he continued; "you are weak and done up." 

" I think I could manage a rifle now, Mr Johnson," said the 
lad, with his teeth chattering from cold, 

" I don't," was the abrupt reply. " Now, my lads, not a sound; 
we have a disgrace to wipe out, and this prahu must be ours." 

By this time the long swift boat was rapidly approaching, 
quite invisible to the little party of English, but audible enough ; 
and they waited eagerly till it seemed as if she was bearing 
down upon them, when, with a short, sharp warning first to be 
ready, the lieutenant gave the word Fire I when about fifteen 
rifles went off almost like one, their flashes lighting up the dark- 
ness for an instant, and displaying close upon them the long 
dark prahu, with a long bank of oars, coming down fast. 

" Oars ! GivQ way 1 *' shouted the lieutenant ; and almost as he 
spoke, the prahu changed her course so rapidly that there was 
but little rowing needed, for instead of avoiding them, the vessel 
came right at the English boat, trying to run her down, being so 
nearly successful that she ripped her down to the water's edge 
just by the bows. There was a crash of breaking oars ; but the 
Malay boat dashed rapidly away, leaving the English helpless 
and sinking on the river. 

" Catch this boat cloak," cried the lieutenant who was ready 
enough in the emergency. ** Stuff" it in, and one of you sit back 
against it." 

" It'll take two on us, sir," cried the man, who rapidly obeyed 
orders, and to some extent checked the rush of water. 

"Two of you begin baling," cried the lieutenant next; and 
then, as he saw that all their efforts would only just keep them 
afloat, "There, my lads," he said, "we've done our best. One 
more volley and then I think we had better run her ashore." 

Another volley was fired, to give warning to the steamer that 
there was something extraordinary on the way, and then the 
boat's head was turned to the shore ; but as they found that by 
constant baling they could just keep afloat, the lieutenant altered 




their direction, and they rowed on, with the gunwale nearly level 
with the water's edge, and proceeding very slowly, but ever 
carried by the stream nearer to the steamer and the isle. 

" A nice night's work, Roberts," said the lieutenant dolefully, 
as they sat deep in the water that washed from side to side ; 
" lost both prahus, and got the boat crippled." 

"But we haven't lost any men, sir/' said Bob, by way of com^ 
forting him. 

" No ; but several of the poor lads are wounded. There's 
only one thing that would give me any comfort for my ill-luck, 
Roberts, and that is to hear ¡ª " 

"There's the 'Startler' a talking to one, sir," cried Dick, for- 
getting discipline in his excitement, as the boom of a big gun 
not very far off met their ears. " There she goes again, sir," he 
continued, as there was another shot, and another, and another, 
all showing that the captain had heard the firing and been 
prepared. 

A couple more shots were heard, and then all was silent till 
the boat slowly drifted by the lights of the island, answering the 
sentries' challenges, and then sighting the lights and open port- 
holes of the steamer, to whose side they managed to struggle, 
answering the challenges as they approached. 

In spite of all their efforts, it was doubtful whether the boat 
could have floated another minute, but on reaching the side the 
falls were hooked on, and she was slowly run up to the davits, 
with the water rushing out, the lieutenant then reporting his ill- 
success to the captain. 

" Not one man killed, though," he said. 

** How many wounded ? " 

" Six, sir, but only slightly." 

"Mr Johnson, I hope the other boats have done better," said 
the captain. " I'm afraid you will not get any promotion on the 
strength of this job." 

"No, sir," said the lieutenant dolefully. " But did, you sink 
either of the prahus ? " 

" Sink them, no," said the captain, testily. " I don't believe 
they were either of them touched ; they went by us like the wind 
There, go below all of you, and get into dry clothes." The 
captain went forward to see that the look-out was doing its 
best ; while the prahus were safely making their way to a mud 
creek, where the chiefs who commanded them felt that they 
could laugh at any force the English might send to redeem the 
feilure of the past night; and to work such mischief in the 
future as was little imagined at the time. 



CHAPTER XL 



HOW BOB ROBERTS HAD A LESSON ON COMMON SENSE. 

The sun rose over the dense forest, turning the river mists into 
gauzy veils, that floated rapidly away, leaving the rapid stream 
sparkling in the soft morning breeze. The brightly-coloured 
parroquets flew shrieking from bank to bank ; and in the thick 
jungle, across from the end of the island the noisy chattering of 
a party of monkeys could be heard. 

But bright as was the scene in all the gorgeous tints of tropic 
scenery, no one on the isle or in the steamer had a thought for 
anything but the expedition. At the residency, Rachel Linton 
and her cousin had watched the starting of the boats in the dim 
starlight, and they had sat ever since at their window, listening 
for tidings. The noise of the distant firing had reached them, 
making their breath come short as they started at each volley. 
Even by the very faintly-heard pattering of the small arms, 
broken occasionally by the loud report of boat-gun or lelah, they 
knew that quite a sharp fight must be raging. 

Twice over they were visited by the major's wife, for the 
major could not rest, but kept going to the steamer to consult 
with Captain Horton as to whether they had done everything 
possible to ensure success. 

Mrs Major Sandars found the two ladies pale and anxious to 
a degree ; and though she refrained from saying so, she shook 
her head, telling herself that this excess of anxiety was due to 
something more than the absence of a father and uncle, espe- 
cially as the resident was not a fighting man. 

She sat with them for long at a time, trying to comfort them^ 
as she saw their agitation, and then grew as anxious herself,, 
especially when the tide of the little war swept their way, and she 
heard the volleys fired from the boat, as the two prahus came 
down the stream. 

At last, just as a couple of Malay fishermen had been en- 
gaged to help pilot the steamer up the river, where Captain; 



Horton had determined to go in quest of the missing expedition, 
the sentry at the point of the island challenged, and the ship's 
boats were seen coming round a point, the sun gleaming brightly 
on the barrels of the rifles, while the white jackets and frocks of 
the soldiers and sailors gave life to a scene that was one series of 
variously tinted greens. 

Glasses were brought to bear, and it was evident that it was no 
dejected beaten party returning, for no sooner did they see that 
they were observed than the men began cheering, their shouts 
bringing the Malays flocking down to the liver side, where 
several chiefs were seen embarking in a naga, or dragon-boat, 
eager, though looking very stolid, to hear the news. 

It was on the whole good, for on the party landing it was to 
announce that they had, after a sharp fight, captured the 
stockade, driving the Malays, who were headed by the Rajah 
Gantang himself, to take refuge in another stockade, in a ravine 
some three miles inland, and then the river fort was set on fire. 

The officer who had attacked the second prahu had met with 
similar ill success to Lieutenant Johnson, and upon relating the 
incidents of the fight, found but little sympathy from the late 
occupants of the other boat, who were rather rejoiced to find 
they had not been excelled. 

The escape of the second prahu was followed by a short 
council ; and several Malays being found ready enough to act 
as guides to the stockade to which the rajah and his men had 
fled, it was decided to follow him up, and read him a second 
severe lesson. 

It was a risky proceeding, for the guides might prove treach- 
erous and lead them into an ambush; but after giving them 
notice that they would receive no mercy if they proved false, a 
small portion of the little force was left in charge of the boats, 
and, lightly equipped, the men went off in search of the second 
stronghold. 

It proved to be an arduous task, for the way was through one 
of the jungle paths, with walls of dense vegetation right and 
left, of the most impenetrable nature. Every here and there, 
too, the enemy had cut down a tree, so that it fell with the 
branches towards the pursuers, who were compelled to force a 
way through the dense mass that choked the narrow path. 

But these impediments were laughed at by the Jacks, who 
hacked and hewed, and soon made a passage, through which, 
in the darkness of the forest, the little force crept on till they 
halted, panting, for the Malay guides to go on first, and act the 
part of scouts. 



" Perhaps to give waxning 01 our coming," said Captain 
Smith ers. 

*' No," said Tom Long, ** I don't think that. I should say 
that they have had spies out all along the path, and that they 
know our position to an inch." 

"You are right, Long," said Captain Smithers, as, one after 
the other, several reports rang out "They are firing on our 

friendly Malays." 

So it proved, for the men came running back to say that they 
had been fired upon as soon as tacy neared the stockade; and 
now, as there was no chance of a surprise, the men were divided, 
and, each party under its leader, started off to try and flank the 

place. 

This was something new to the Malays, who looked upon it 
as unfair fighting, and the result was, that after five minutes' 
sharp, hand-to-hand engagement, the rajah and his men once 
more took to the woods, and the second stockade was burned. 

This was so satisfactory a termination, that it seemed to make 
up for the loss of the two prahus. These, however, Captain 
Horton said the ship's boats would soon hunt out; and the 
Malay chiefs went back to the sultan, to announce to him the 
defeat of his old enemy ; while at the island every one was occupied 
about th.Q hospital and the wounded men, who, poor fellows, were 
carefully lifted ashore, the doctor saying that the sailors would 
be far better on the island, in a tent beneath the shady trees, 
than on shipboard. 

"Ten wounded, major," he said sharply, *'and not a man 
dangerously. I'll soon set them right. Steady there, my boys; 
lift them carefully." 

A goodly group had assembled by the landing-place when the 
men were brought ashore, the ladies being ready with fruit and 
cool drink for the poor fellows; and Bob Roberts, who had come 
to the landing-place with Captain Horton in the gig, felt quite 
envious. 

An hour or two's sleep had set him right, and he felt none the 
worse for his adventure ; but there was Tom Long being lifted 
carefully ashore by two of the sailors, and Rachel Linton and 
Mary Sinclair eagerly waiting on the youth, for he had received 
a real wound this time, and looked most interestingly pale. 

"Just like my luck," grumbled Bob. "He gets comfortably 
wounded, and they will be taking him fruit and flowers every 
day. I shouldn't wonder if they had him carried up to the 
residency, so that he would be handy, and ¡ª hang me if it ain't 
too bad Oh J 'pon my word, I can't stand this; they are 



having him carried up to the house. Just my luck. I get a 
contemptible ducking, and no one wants to wait upon me." 

Bob ground his teeth and looked on, while Torn Long was 
sympathized with and talked to on his way up to the residency, 
where, after swallowing his wrath, as the middy expressed it, he 
got leave to go up and see his friend. 

" My friend 1 " he said, half aloud, as he walked on through 
the brilliant sunshine. " Lor', how I do hate that fellow ! I wish 
I had had the kris. I'd have given the Malay such a oner as he 
wouldn't have forgotten in a hurry. Poor old Tommy, though ! 
I hope he isn't hurt much. How do you do, Miss Linton ? " he 
said stiffly, as he encountered Rachel Linton in the verandah. 

" Quite well, I thank you, Mr Roberts," said Rachel, imitating 
his pompous stiffness, and curtseying profoundly; "how do you 

do?" 

** Oh 1 I say; don't. Miss Linton. What a jolly shame it is," 
he cried, throwing off all form. "You always laugh and poke 
fun at me." 

" Not I, Mr Roberts," she replied. " When you are stiff and 
formal, I shape my conduct to suit yours ; when you come as the 
nice, frank, manly boy that we are always so glad to see, I am 
sure I never laugh at you then." 

" Boy ? Yes, of course, you always treat me like a boy," said 
Bob, dolefully. " Is a fellow never going to be a man ? " 

"Far too soon, I should think," said Miss Linton, holding out 
her hand. 

" Oh ! I'm only a boy," said Bob, stuffing his hands in his 
pockets, and looking so sadly injured, and in so comical a way, 
that Miss Linton could hardly refrain from laughing. 

" Such a boy as I'm sure we are all very proud of," said Miss 
Linton. "We have heard from my father and Lieutenant 
Johnson how bravely you behaved last night." 

" Gammon 1 " said Bob, blushing scarlet. '^ I only behaved 
like a boy. How is the wounded man you have had brought up 
here ¡ª Mr Ensign Long ? " 

" Poor boy I " said Rachel Linton quietly ; " he has a nasty 

wound." 

" Say that again. Miss Linton," cried Bob excitedly; " it does 

me good." 

" He has a nasty wound. Are you so pleased, then, that your 
friend is badly hurt ? " said Miss Linton gravely. 

" No, no ; of course not. I mean the other," cried Bob, 

"Why, what did I say?" 

" You said ' Poor boy ! ' " exclaimed the middy. 




" Of course I did," said Miss Linton, raising her eyebrows. 

'* Say it again, please," said Bob. 

" Poor boy ! I am very sorry for him." 

" That does me a deal of good," cried Bob excitedly. " You 
know I can't stand it, Miss Linton, for you to think of him as a 
man and of me as only a boy." 

"Why, you silly, foolish boyl" she said, laying her hand upon 
his shoulder, and gazing full in his face, " of course I think of 
you both as what you are ¡ª a pair of very brave lads, who will 
some day grow to be officers of whom England will be very proud." 

*' If ¡ª if I'm not a man now," said Bob, in a low, husky voice, 
" I shall never grow to be one," 

"Not grow to be a man? Why, what do you mean?" said 
Miss Linton. 

"I don't know," faltered Bob, "only that it's precious miser- 
able, and ¡ª and I wish one of the jolly old Malays would stick his 
old kris right through my heart, for there don't seem anything 
worth living for when one can't have what one wants." 

Rachel Linton gazed at him half sad and half amused. 

" Do you wish me to think of you, Robert Roberts, with respect 
and esteem ? " 

" I'd give all the world to be one of your dogs, Miss Linton, 
or your bird." 

" Do you mean to be a goose ? '* said Miss Linton, laughing. 

" There, I did not mean to hurt your feelings," she added frankly; 

"but come, now, give up all this silly nonsense, and try to 

remember that you are after all but a boy, whom I want to look 

upon as a very dear friend." 

" Do you really ? " said Bob. 

" I do, really," said Miss Linton, holding out her hand ; " a 

friend whom I can believe in and trust, out in this dangerous 

place, and one who will not make my life wretched by being 

silly, romantic, and sentimental." 

Bob gripped the hand extended to him, and held it for a few 
moments. 

"There," he said firmly, as he seemed to shake himself 
together, " I see it now. It's all right, Miss Linton ; and it's 
better to be a brick of a boy than a weak, puling noodle of a 
man, isn't it ? " 

" Indeed it is," cried Miss Linton, laughing merrily. 

** There, I'm your man ¡ª I mean I'm your boy," cried Bob; 
" and I'll let you see that I'm a very different fellow to what you 
think. Now I want to go and see poor old Tom Long. I am 
sorry he's hurt" 




" You are now more like the Bob Roberts, midshipwa?," said 
Miss Linton, " whom I saw first some months ago, than I have 
seen for a long time." 

" All right," said Bob ; " now let's go and see the other poor 
boy." 

*' Come along, then," she said, smiling ; *' but I'm afraid, that 
Tom Long will not be so easy to convince that he has not yet 
arrived at years of discretion." 

As she spoke Miss Linton softly opened the door unseen, and 
let Bob Roberts enter a cool and airy well-shaded room, closing 
the door upon him, and herself gliding away. 



CHAPTER XII. 



A DISCUSSION UPON WOUNDS. 

*' Avast there ! what cheer, my hearty ? Heave ahead, my 
military swab. How goes it I " cried Bob, as Tom raised himself 
a little on his couch, evidently very glad to see his old companion. 

" Oh, not quite killed," he said. " Gently ; don't shake a 
fellow to pieces." 

" Where's the wound ? " cried Bob, " Ain't going to send in 
the number of your mess, are you ? " 

"No, I'm not," cried Tom Long, flushing up; "and if I ever 
do come across the chief fellow who gave me such a nasty dig, 
he'll remember it to the end of his days." 

" What was it¡ª a spear or a kris ? " said Bob. 

" Kris, right through my left shoulder. Doctor Bolter says if 
it had been four inches lower it would have been fatal." 

" Bother / " cried Bob. " If it had been four inches higher it 
would have missed you altogether." 

" Yes, of course," said Tom ; " but it's precious unpleasant to 
have a fellow stick his skewer right through you." 

"Well, I don't know," said Bob, who had made up his mind 
that the proper thing was to try and cheer the ensign, and not 
to let him think he was very bad. "I think I'd just as soon 
have it right through as only half way." 

" Oh, it's nothing to laugh at, I can tell you," said Tom Long, 
*' I don't see why you mightn't just as well have had it as me. 
You always get off all right." 

" I didn't last night, or rather this morning," said Bob. *' I 
was right into the prahu we tried to take ¡ª first man, sir ¡ª I mean 
boy, sir ; and I was sawing away at a mat with my knife, when 

all came down by the run, and I was pitched into the river," 
" And picked out," said the ensign impatiently. 
"Yes, but not before I'd been swimming for a quarter of an 

hour ¡ª good measure. Oh, I say, Tom, didn't I think of 
the crocodiles ! " 




" You're such a cheeky little beggar, I wonder they didn't get 
you," said Tom, who looked feverish and excited. " I say, Bob 
Roberts, you know what that chap, that Kling fellow, said to us 
about the krises." 

" Yes, of course. What then ? " 

" Do you think they are poisoned ? " 

"No, not a bit. Do you?" 

" Yes," said the young ensign ; " and I am sure this one was, 
for I can feel the wound throbbing and stabbing, and a curious 
sensation running to my finger ends." 

" Well, so one did when one had a bad cut," said Bob sharply. 
" Bah ! poisoned ! it's all rubbish. Why, if you had been 
poisoned you'd have been sleepy and stupid." 

" I feel so now." 

" AVhat ¡ª stupid ? " said Bob, grinning. " Well that's natural : 
you always were ? " 

" I can't get up and cane you. Bob Roberts," said the ensign, 
slowly. 

" Of course you can't, old maa But there, don't you worry ; 
that kris wasn't poisoned, or you'd feel very different to what 
you do now." 

"Think so?" 

"Sure of it." 

" How do you know ? " said Tom Long, peevishly. " You 
were never wounded by a poisoned weapon." 

" No, but I've seen somebody else, and watched him." 

"What was he wounded with ? " 

? Serpent's tooth," said Bob ; " Private Gray." 

" Why, that's a different thing altogether," said Long, 

" No it isn't, Mr Clevershakes. The snake's poison goes into 
the blood, don't it, same as that of a kris, and the symptoms 
would be just the same." 

Tom Long seemed to think there was something in this, and 
he lay thinking for a minute. 

" How did Gray look ? " he said. " I don't remember." 

" Just the same as you don't look," said Bob, sharply ; " so 
don't be a stupid and frighten yourself worse. Malay krises are 
not poisoned, and it's all a cock-and-bull story," 

" What is ? " said Doctor Bolter, entering the room. 

" About krises being poisoned, doctor." 

Doctor BoltCT felt his patient's pulse. 

" Have you been putting him up to thinking his wound was 
poisoned ? " he said, angrily. 

" No, doctor," said Tom Long, quietly ; " it was my idea, and 
I feel sure it is." 




" Tom Long," said Doctor Bolter, " you're only a boy, and if 
you weren't so ill, I'd box your ears. YouVe been frightening 
yourself into a belief that you are poisoned, and here's your pulse 
up, the dickens knows how high. Now look here, sir, what's 
the use of your placing yourself in the hands of a surgeon, and 
then pretending to know better yourself ? " 

" I don't pretend, doctor." 

" Yes, you do, sir. You set up a theory of your own that your 
blood is poisoned, in opposition to mine that it is not." 

" But are you sure it is not, doctor ? " 

** Am I sure? Why, by this time if that kris had been poisoned 
you would have had lock-jaw." 

" And Locke on the Understanding," put in Bob. 

*' Yes," laughed the doctor ; " and been locked up altogether. 
There, there, my dear boy, keep yourself quiet, and trust me to 
bring you round. You, Bob Roberts, don't let him talk, and 
don't talk much yourself. You'd better go to sleep, Long." 

"Wound pains me too much, doctor. It throbs so. Isn't 
that a sign of poison ? " 

" I'll go and mix you up a dose of poison that shall send you 
to sleep for twelve hours, my fine fellow, if you don't stop all that 
nonsense. Your wound is not poisoned, neither is that of any 
other man who came back from the expedition ; and if it's any 
satisfaction to you to know it, you've got the ugliest dig of any 
man ¡ª I mean boy ¡ª amongst the wounded." 

The doctor arranged the matting screen so as to admit more 
air, and bustled towards the door ¡ª but stopped short on hearing 
a buzzing sound at the open window, went back on tiptoe, and 
cleverly captured a large insect 

" A splendid longicom," he said, fishing a pill-box from his 
pocket, and carefully imprisoning his captive. " Ah, my dear 
boys, what a pity it is that you do not take to collecting while you 
are young ! What much better men you would make ! " 

** There," said Bob, as soon as they were alone, "how do you 
feel about your poison now ? " 

*' He says it is not, just to cheer me up," said Tom Long, 
dolefully. " I say, Bob Roberts, if I die¡ª" 

" If you what ? " cried Bob, in a tone of disgust. 

" I say, if I die." 

"Oh, ah, of course. Now then, let's have it. Do you want 
me to write a verse for your tombstone ? " 

" They'd pitch me overboard," said Long, dolefully. 

" Not they," said Bob. " This promising young officer, who 
had taken it into his head that he had been wounded by a 



poisoned kris, was buried under a palm tree, to the great relief 
of all who knew him, for they found him the most conceited ¡ª " 

" Bob Roberts ! " 

" Consequential ¡ª " 

" I tell you what it is ¡ª " 

" Cocky¡ª" 

" I never heard ¡ª " 

"Unpleasant fellow that ever wore Her Majesty's uniform." 

"Just wait till I get well, Master Bob Roberts," said Tom 
Long, excitedly, " and if I don't make you pay for all this, my 
name's not what it is." 

"Thought you had made up your mind to die," said Bob, 
laughing. " There, it won't do, young man ; so now go to sleep. 
I've got another half-hour, and 1*11 sit here and keep the flies 
from visiting your noble corpus too roughly ; and when you 
wake up, if you find I am not here it is because I am gone. 
D'ye hear ? '[ 

" Yes," said Tom Long, drowsily ; and in five minutes he was 
fast asleep, seeing which Bob sat till the last minute, and then 
went out on tiptoe to run and learn whether the boat was wait- 
ing by the landing-stage. 



CHAPTER XIII. 



AN UNPLEASANT INTERRUPTION. 

The feeling of satisfaction was very general at the lesson given 
the rajah ; and though his two prahus had escaped, his power 
had received a most severe blow. 

Sultan Hamet was sincere enough in his demonstrations of 
pleasure, sending presents five or six times a day to the resident, 
the various officers, and, above all, fruit for the wounded men. 

The presents were but of little value, but they showed the 
Malay's gratitude, and the officers were very pleased with what 
they looked upon as curiosities. Even Bob Roberts and Tom 
Long were not forgotten, each receiving an ivory-mounted kris, 
the young chief Ali being the bearer. 

The resident, however, felt that the sultan was not meeting 

him in quite a proper spirit, and he was rather suspicious, till a 

fresh embassy of the principal chiefs arrived, and brought a 

formal invitation for the resident and the officers to visit him 

upon a fixed day. 

As before, an imposing force was got ready, and once more 
the march to what Bob had nick-named Palm Tree Palace, took 

place, the middy coming afterwards to Tom Long's room, and 

telling him how the affair had gone off. 

" It was no end of a game," he said to the young ensign, who 
was rajjidly gaining strength, the fancy that his wound was 
poisoned having passed away. " We started just as we did last 
time, and marched through the jungle till we came to the sultan's 
bams, where the men were drawm up, and no end of the niggers 
came to wait on them, bringing them a kind of drink made of 
rice, and plenty of fruit and things, while we officers had to go 
into the sultan's dining-room ¡ª a place hung round with cotton 
print ¡ª and there we all sat down, cross-legged, like a lot of jolly 
tailors, with the sultan up at the top, the major on one side, and 
our skipper on tlie other." 

" But they didn't sit down cross-legged ? " said Tom Long. 



" Didn't they, my boy ? But they just did ; and it was a game 
to see our skipper letting himself down gently for fear of cracking 
his best white uniform sit-in-ems. Your major split some stitches 
somewhere, for I heard them go. Then there was the doctor ? 
you should have seen him ! He came to an anchor right 
enough, but when he tried to square his yards ¡ª I mean his legs 
¡ª he nearly went over backwards, and looked savage enough to 
eat me, because I laughed." 

** Poor old doctor !" said Tom Long, smiling. 

" Oh, we were all in difficulties, being cast upon our beam 
ends as it were ; but we got settled down in our berths at last, 
and then the dinner began." 

" Was it good ? " said Tom Long, whose appetite was growing 
as he began to get better. 

" Jolly ! " said Bob, " capital 1 I say, though, how hot this 
place is." 

"Yes," said the ensign, "the lamp makes it hotj but the 
window is wide open." 

Bob glanced out into the darkness, to see the dark gleaming 
leaves, and the bright fire-flies dancing in the air, while right 
before them lay the smooth river, reflecting the brilliant stars. 

" There was no cloth ; but it was no end of fun. Mr Sultan 
is going in for English manners and customs, and he mixes them 
up with his own most gloriously. By way of ornaments there 
was a common black japanned cruet-stand, with some trumpery 
bottles. There was one of those brown earthenware teapots, and 
an old willow-pattern soup tureen, without cover or stand, but 
full of flowers. Besides which, there were knives and forks, and 
spoons, regular cheap Sheffield kitchen ones, and as rusty as an 
old ringbolt. 

" Indeed 1 " said Tom Long. 

" I looked at our officers, and they had hard work to keep 
solemn ; and I half expected to see a pound of sausages, and 
some potatoes in their skins, for the banquet. But wait a bit ; 
those were the English things brought out in compliment to us. 
Mr Sultan had plenty of things of his own, some of silver, some 
of gold. He had some beautiful china too ; and the feed itself ¡ª 
tiatl^^ said Bob, smacking his lips. "I wish you had been there." 

" I wish I had," sighed Tom Long. " Getting welVs worse 
than being wounded." 

"Never mind; you'll soon be all right," continued Bob. 
" Well, we had some good fish, nicely cooked, and some stunning 
curry ; the best I ever ate ; and we had sambals, as they call 
*em, with it" 





"What the dickens are sambals?" said Tom Long. 

" Well, it*s either pickles or curry, whichever you like to call 
it,*' continued Bob. " These sambals are so many little saucers on 
a silver tray, and they are to eat with your curry. One had 
smashed up cocoa-nut in milk ; another chillies ; another dried 
shrimps, chutney, green ginger, no end of things of that kind ¡ª 
and jolly good they were ! Then we had rice in all sorts of 
shapes, and some toddy and rice wine, and some sweets of sago, 
and cocoa-nut and sugar." 

" But you didn't eat all those things?" said Tom Long, peevishly. 

"Didn't I, my boy? but I just did. I thought once that the 
sultan might be going to poison us all ; and, as they say there's 
safety in a big dose, and death in a small, I went in for a regular 
big go. But I say, the fruits I they were tip-top : mangosteens 
and guavas, and mangoes, and cocoa-nuts, and durians, and some 
of the best bananas I ever ate in my life." 

" You didn't try one of those filthy durians again ? " 

** Bless 'em, that I did ; and I mean to try *em again and 
again, as long as a heart beats in the bosom of yours very faith- 
fully, Bob Roberts. They're glorious ! " 

*' Bah 1 " 

" That's right," said Bob. " You say * Bah T and VU eat the 
durians. But I didn't tell you about the drinks. We had coifee, 
and pipes, and cigars, and said pretty things to each other ; and 
then the sultan told Mr Linton he was going to bring out some 
choice English nectar in our honour." 

" And did he ? " 

" He just did, my boy. A nigger came round with a little 
silver tray, covered with tiny gold cups in which was something 
thick and red." 

" Liqueur, I suppose," said Tom Long, uneasily, 

"Wait a wee, dear boy," said Bob. ** Here's the pyson at 
last, I says to myself; and when my turn came, I did as the 
others did, bowed to the sultan, feeling just like a tombola, and 
nearly going over ; then I drank ¡ª and what do you think it was ? " 

" I don't know; go on." 

" Raspberry vinegar, and ¡ª ah ! " 

Tom Long started back, looking deadly white in the feeble 
light of the lamp ; for, as Bob ejaculated loudly, a Malay spear 
whizzed past his ear, and stuck in the wooden partition behind 
him, having evidently been thrown through the window by some 
lurlung foe. 



CHAPTER XIV. 



HOW BOB ROBERTS MADE A FIRM FRIEND. 

Bob Roberts seized his sword and dashed to the window, leap- 
ing boldly out, and shouting for help ; and as he did so he heard 
the bushes rapidly parted, the crackling of twigs on ahead, and 
then, as he neared the river in pursuit of the assailant, there was 
a loud splash, followed by the challenge of a sentry and the 
report of his piece. 

A brisk time of excitement followed, during which a thorough 
search was made, but no one was found ; and it was evident that 
the spear had been thrown by an enemy who had come alone ; 
but the incident was sufficient to create a general feeling of 
uneasiness at the residency. The sentries -were doubled, and 
orders were given that the place should be carefully patrolled ; 
for though the English were upon an island, the Malays were 
such expert swimmers that they could start up stream and let 
themselves float down to the head of the island and land. 

It was some few days before Bob Roberts was able to pay 
another visit to the residency, for he had been out twice with the 
steamer's boats, in search of the two escaped Malay prahus, each 
time on insufficient information ; and after a weary pull through 
a winding mangrove creek, had come back without seeing them. 

Meantime the relations with the Malays were daily growing in 
friendliness. A brisk trade with the shore was carried on, and 
sampans from far up the river came laden with fruit, fish, and 
rice; some brought poultry, and green sugar-cane for eating; 
others cocoa-nuts, and quaint articles for barter. But somehow 
there was an uneasy feeling on the island, that though the sultan 
and his people were friendly, some of the rajahs detested the 
English, as being likely to put a stop to their piratical practices, 
the destruction of Rajah Gantang's stockade, while it gave plenty 

of satisfaction in some parts, being looked upon with disfavour 

in others. 





" Pretty well all right again, old man ? " said Bob, sauntering 
in one day, to find the ensign reading. 

" Yes, I*m stronger by a good deal than I was," said Tom 
Long, holding out his hand. 

** No more limbings pitched in at the window, eh ? " 

"No,*' said Tom Long with a slight shudder; '* I hope that 
sort of thing is not going to happen again." 

" To which I say ditto," said Bob. " But I say, I know who 
pitched that spear at you," 

" You do ? " 

"Yes, it was that Malay chap you offended with the durian." 

" Then he must be taken and punished." 

" First catch your brown hare, master officer of infantry," said 

Bob, smiling. " He won't set foot here again, depend upon it, 

unless he slinks in at night. By George, what a malicious lot 

they must be, to act like that ! " 

" Yes, it*s not pleasant," said Tom Long, with an involuntary 

shudder, as, in imagination, he saw the dark face of his enemy 

always on the watch for an opportunity to assassinate him. 

" I never finished my account of the trip to the sultan's," said 
Bob, at last 

" Was there anything more to tell ? " 

"Yes, one thing," replied Bob; "the best of the whole lot." 

" What was it ? " 

" Don't get riled if I tell you." 

" Pooh I how can it rile me ? " 

" Oh, I don't know ; only it may. It was a proposal made by 
the sultan to Mr Linton." 

" Proposal ! What proposal ? " 

" Well, I'll tell you ; only don't go into fits. It was after we'd 
been sitting smoking for a bit, and just before we were coming 
away. Master Sultan had shown us all his best things ¡ª his gold 
and silver, and his slaves, and the dingy beauties with great ear- 
rings, and bangles on their arms and legs, who have the honour 
of being his wives ; and at last he said something to Mr Linton, 
who understands his lingo as well as you and I do French." 

"Well, but what did he propose?" said Long, eagerly. 

" I got to know afterwards from Captain Smithers," continued 
Bob, "that he said he had been thinking very seriously about his 
position in connexion with the English, and that he saw how a 
strong alliance would be best for all ; that it would settle him in 
his government, and make it a very excellent match for the 
English, who would be able to get tin and rice from the sultan's 
people, and gold." 




"You're as prosy as an old woman," said Tom Long, im- 
patiently. 

"Yes, it's an accomplishment of mine," said Bob coolly. 
*' Well, as I was telling you, he said the proper thing was a very 
strong alliance ; and the resident said we had already made one. 
He said he wanted a stronger one; and he thought the best 
thing would be for him to marry Miss Linton and her cousin, 
and then it would be all right." 

** Why, confound his insolence 1 '* said Tom Long, starting up. 

" No, no, you must say something else," cried Bob. " I said 
that as soon as I heard it." 

" Did not Mr Linton knock him down ? " cried Tom Long. 

" No, he did not. He heard him out, and said it must be a 
matter of consideration ; and then we came away." 

" But it*s monstrous ! " cried Tom Long. 

" Of course it is," said Bob, coolly ; " but don't you see it was 
of no use to break with the fellow at once. It was a case of 
diplomacy. We don't want to quarrel with Master Sultan 
Hamet : we want to keep friends." 

" But it was such an insult to the ladies ! " 

" He looked as if he thought he was doing them an honour, 
Master Long, so it wouldn't have done to fall out with him. 
There, don't look so fierce, we've got a difficult game to play here, 
and our great point is not to quarrel with the Malays, unless we 
want spears thrown in at every dark window while we stay." 

Tom Long sat biting his nails, for Bob had touched him in a 
very tender part, and he knew it. In fact, the middy rather 
enjoyed his companion's vexation, for he had begun, since his 
memorable conversation with Miss Linton, to look upon his feel- 
ings towards her with a more matter-of-fact eye. 

** I shall have to get about at once," said Tom Long, speak- 
ing as if his weight in the scale would completely make Sultan 
Hamet kick the beam ; but upon seeing the mirthful look in Bob 
Roberts' eye, he changed the subject, and began talking about 
bow he longed to be out and about again. 

" I thought we should get no end of fishing and shooting out 
here," he said, " and we've had none as yet." 

" Get well, then, and we'll have a try for some," Bob suggested. 
"There must be plenty ;" and with the understanding that the 
ensign was to declare himself fit to be off the doctor's hands as 
soon as possible, Bob Roberts returned to the steamer, and then 
finding it terribly close, he did what he had acquired a habit of 
doing when the weather was very hot, found a snug shady place 
on deck, and went off to sleep. 




That was very easy in those latitudes. Whether the sun shone 
or whether it was gloomy, black, and precursive of a thunder- 
storm, an European had only to sit down in a rocking chair, or 
swing in a hammock, and he went off into a delicious slumber 
almost on the instant 

So far so good ; the difficulty was to keep asleep ; and so Bob 
Roberts found. 

He had settled himself in a low basket-work chair, beneath a 
stout piece of awning which shed a mellow twilight upon the 
deck, and loosening his collar, he had dropped off at once; 
but hardly was he asleep before "burr ¡ª r ¡ª r boom ¡ª m ¡ª m, 
boozz ¡ª zz ¡ª zz'' came a great fly, banging itself against the 
awning, sailing round and round, now up, now down, as if Bob's 
head were the centre of its attraction, and he could not get 
farther away. Now it seemed to have made up its mind to beat 
itself to pieces against the canvas, and now to try how near it 
could go to the midshipman's nose without touching, and keep- 
ing up all the time such an aggravating, irritating buzz that it 
woke Bob directly. 

There was plenty of room for the ridiculous insect to have 
flown right out from beneath the awning and over the flashing 
river to the jungle; but no, that did not seem to suit its ideas, 
and it kept on with its monotonous buzz, round and round, and 
round and round. 

Half awake, half asleep. Bob fidgetted a little, changed his 
position, and with his eyes shut hit out sharply at his tormentor, 
but of course without effect 

He turned over, turned back ; laid his head on one side ; then 
on the other ; and at last, as the miserable buzzing noise con- 
tinued, he jumped up in a rage, picked up a book for a weapon, 
and followed the fly about, trying to get a fair blow ¡ª but all in 
vain. He hit at it flying, settled on the canvas roof, on the arms 
of chairs, and on the deck, and twice upon a rope ¡ª but all in 
vain : the wretched insect kept up its irritating buzz, till, hot, 
panting, his brows throbbing with the exertion, Bob made a 
furious dash at it, and with one tremendous blow crushed it flat 

The middy drew a long breath, wiped the perspiration from 
his forehead, and, panting and weary, threw himself back in the 
chair, and closed his eyes. 

He was a clever sleeper, Bob Roberts. Like the Irishman 
who went to sleep for two or three days, when Bob went to sleep, 
he " paid attintion to it." In a few seconds then he was fast, 
and ¡ª truth must be told ¡ª with his mouth open, and a very 
unpleasant noise arising therefrom. 




Vain hope of rest. Even as he threw himself hack, a little 
many-legged creature, about two inches long, was industriously 
making its way over the deck towards where one of the middy's 
limbs lay outstretched, and in a few seconds it had mounted his 
shoe, examined it with a pair of long thin antennae, and then 
given the leather a pinch with a pair of hooked claws at its tail. 

Apparently dissatisfied, the long thin yellow insect ran on to 
the sleeper's sock, carefully examined its texture, tasted it with 
its tail, and still not satisfied, proceeded to walk up one of the 
very wide open duck trouser legs, that must have been to it 
like the entrance to some grand tunnel, temptingly inviting 
investigation. 

The insect disappeared ; Bob snored, and there was the loud 
buzzing murmur of men's voices, talking drowsily together, when, 
as if suddenly electrified, Bob leaped up with a sharp cry, 
slapped his leg vigorously, and stood shaking his trousers till 
the long thin insect tumbled on to the white deck, and was duly 
crushed. 

''Scissors! how it stings!" cried Bob, rubbing the place. 
" O Lor' I what a place this is to be sure. Who the dickens can 
get a nod ? " 

Bob Roberts was determined upon having one evidently, for 
having given the obnoxious remains another stamp, he took a 
look round, to see if any other pest, winged or legged, had been 
brought from the shore, and seeing nothing, he again settled 

himself down, gave a turn or two and a twist to get himself 
comfortable, ending by sitting with his legs stretched straight 

out, his head thrown back, and his nose pointed straight up at 
the awning. 

This time Bob went off fast asleep; his cap fell on to the 
deck, but it did not disturb him ; and he was evidently making 
up for lost time, when a very industrious spider, who had made 
his home in the awning, came boldly out of a fold \>y a seam of 
the canvas, and with busy legs proceeded to examine the state 
and tension of some threads, which it had previously stretched 
as the basis of a web upon a geometrical plan, expressly to catch 
mosquitoes. 

Apparently satisfied, the spider set to work busily, its dark, 
heavy body showing plainly against the yellowish canvas ; and 
in a very short time a main rope was attached to the roof, and 
the architect of fly-nets began slowly to descend in search of a 
point to which the other end of the said main-stay could be 
attacked. 

Now fate had so arranged it, that the point exactly beneath 





the spider as it slowly descended was the tip of Bob Roberts' 
nose, and to this point in the course of a minute the insect 
nearly arrived. 

It may be thought that its next act would be to alight and fix 
its rope ; but this was not so easy, for the soft zeph5T:-like breaths 
the middy exhaled drove the swinging architect to and fro. 
Now it came near, now it was driven away ; but at last it got 
near enough to grasp at the sleeper's most prominent feature, 
just brushing it with its legs, and setting up an irritating tickling 
that made Bob snort and scratch his face. 

The spider swung to and fro for some seconds, and then there 
was another terrible tickle, to which Bob responded by fiercely 
rubbing the offending organ. 

The spider was driven to a distance by this ; but it was back 
again directly, with its legs stretched out, tickling as before. 

Bob was not asleep, and he was not awake, and he could 
neither sink into oblivion, nor thoroughly rouse himself. All he 
could do was to bestow an irritable scratch at his nose, and the 
spider came back again. 

At last, spider or no spider, he dropped into a strange dreamy 
state, in which he believed that Tom Long came and loomed 
over him on purpose to bend down and tickle him, out of spite 
and jealousy, with the long thin feather from a paroquet's tail. 

"Don't! Bother !'* said Bob, in his sleep; but the tickling 
went on, and he felt ready to leap up and strike his tormentor ; 
but he seemed to be held down by some strange power which 
kept him from moving, and the tickling still went on. 

Then he could hear voices talking, and people seemed to 
be about, laughing at and enjoying the trick that was being 
played upon him \ and then he started into wakefulness, for a 
voice exclaimed, ¡ª 

" Come, Mr Roberts, are you going to wake up?" 

It was Lieutenant Johnson who spoke ; and on the middy 
jumping up, he found standing by him, with the lieutenant, the 
dark-faced youth who had met them and acted as guide on the 
occasion when they made their first visit to the sultan's home. 

He was dressed similarly to the way in which he made his 
first appearance before the English party ; that is to say, he wore 
the silken jacket and sarong of the Malay chiefs, with a natty 
little embroidered cap, set jauntily upon his head like that of a 
cavalry soldier ; but in addition he wore the trousers, white shirt- 
fi-ont, and patent leather boots of an Englishman, and the middy 
saw that he had a gold albert chain and straw-coloured kid 
gloves. 




" This gentleman is the son of the Tumongong of Parang, Mr 
Roberts," said the lieutenant, "and he has come on board to see 
the ship. Take him round and show him everything, especially 
the armoury, and let him understand the power of the guns. 
Captain Horton wishes it." 

The lieutenant looked meaningly at the middy, who saluted, 
and then nodded his head in a way that showed he comprf> 
hended his task. 

"The skipper wants these people to know that it is of no 
good to try and tackle us/' thought Bob. " Yes, sir," he said 
aloud, " I'll take him round ;" and then the lieutenant, who had 
been interrupted in a nap, saluted the young chief, who salaamed 
to him gravely, and the two young men were left alone, gazing 
straight at one another, each apparently trying to read the other's 
thoughts. 

"This is a jolly nice sort of a game," said Bob to himself! 
"How am I to make him understand? What a jolly fool old 
Johnson is. Now, my sun-brown-o cockywax, comment vous 
portez-vous ? as we say in French. Me no understandy curse 
Malay's lingo not at alio. Bismillah ! wallah ! Come oh 1 and 
have a bottle oh 1 of Bass's ale oh 1 

" With much pleasure," said the young Malay, laughing. " I 
am thirsty." 

Bob Roberts turned as red as a turkey cock with vexation, 

" What ! Can you understand English ? " he stammered. 

" Rather 1 " was the reply. " I couldn't make out all you said 
¡ª not quite," he added, laughing meaningly, 

"Oh ! I say, I am sorry," said Bob frankly. "I didn't know 
you could understand a word," 

" It's all right," said the young Malay, showing his white 
teeth, and speaking fair idiomatic English, though with a peculiar 
accent, " I've been a great deal at Penang and Singapore. I 
like English ways." 

" I say, you know," cried Bob, holding out his hand, " it was 
only my fun. I wouldn't have chaffed you like that for a 
moment if I had thought you could understand" 

" No, I suppose not," said the young Malay. " Never mind, I 
wanted to see you. That*swhylcame. Where's the youngsoldier?" 

" What Tom ¡ª I mean Ensign Long ? " 

"Yes, En ¡ª sign Long." 

" Knocked up. Ill with his wound. He got hurt up the river." 

" I did not know it was he," said the young Malay. " Poor 
fellow I " 

" He was in an awful state," said Bob. " Got a kris through 
his shoulder, and thought it was poisoned.*' 



" What, the kris ? Oh, no. That is nonsense. Our people 
don't poison their krises and limbings. The Sakais poison their 
arrows. " 

" The whiches ? " said Bob. 

" The Sakais ¡ª the wild people of the hills and jungle. Naked 
¡ª wear no clothes." 

" Yes," said Bob drily. " I knew naked meant wearing no 
clothes. So you Malay folks are not savages, but have got 
savages somewhere near." 

** Savages? wild people," said the young man, with a little 
flush appearing through his tawny skin. " The Malay chiefs are 
gentlemen. We only are simple in our ways and living/' 

" Oh I that's it, is it ? " said Bob. ** Well, come and have this 
drop of Bass. I can't stand fizz." 

" Fizz ? " said the visitor ; " what is fizz ? " 

" Champagne.'* 

" Oh, yes ! I know ; frothing, bubbling wine, with a pop cork." 

" Yes, that's it," said Bob, grinning, " with a pop cork ; " and 
leading the way below, he got a bottle of Bass and a couple of 
glasses, which they sat down and discussed. 

" Have a cigar ? " said the young Malay, producing a hand- 
some French-made case. 

"Thanky," said Bob. "What are these? Manillas?" 

" No ; from Deli, in Sumatra," said his visitor. And then 
they Ht up by the open window of the gun-room, and sat and 
smoked for a few minutes in silence, each watching the other. 

"I say," said Bob at last, "this is jolly rum, you know. Why 
you are quite an Englishman, young fellow." 

"I like English ways," said the young chief, flushing ; "some 
of them. If I were sultan, I'd take to all the best English 
customs, and make them take the place of all our bad ones. 
Then we should be great." 

" Yes," said Bob ; " I suppose so." 

" Ah," said the young man, sadly, " you lauglu But J could 
improve our people." 

"Yes, of course," said Bob, hastily. "Now come and see 
round the ship." 

" No, no, let us sit and talk," said the young Malay. " I have 
seen plenty of ships. I know all about them." 

"Just as you like," said Bob. "Then let's go and sit on 
deck, under the awning. It's awfully hot here," 

" You think it hot ? " 

" Yes ; don't you ? " said Bob. 

"No, not at all," said the young Malay, smiling; and rising 
he followed the middy on deck. 




"That's better," said Bob; "sit down in that cane chair. 
I say, what's your name ? " 

" Ali ; what is yours ?" 

" Robert Roberts ; commonly known to my intimates as Bob." 

" Intimates ? what are intimates ? " 

" Best friends," said Bob. 

" Yes, I understand. May I be an intimate ? " 

**To be sure you may," said Bob, holding out his hand, 
which the other eagerly grasped. " But no larks, you know." 

" Larks 1 what is larks ? " said All, eagerly. 

" I mean, no sticking that kris of yours into a fellow on the sly." 

'* Nonsense ! What bosh ! " cried the young Malay. 

" Bosh, eh ? " said Bob, laughing. " I say, Master Ali, you 
are civilized, and no mistake. It is only our very educated 
people who say Bosh I " 

" You took the word from us," said the young Malay. " Bosh 
is good eastern language, and means notking.^^ 

" I've heard it was Turkish," said Bob, drily. 

" Well, Turkish ; the language of Roum. We look upon the 
Sultan of Roum and Stamboul as our greatest chief." 

" Oh, I say," cried Bob ; " I can't stand this, you know. I 
thought you were a young Malay chief, and you are talking like a 
professor. Look here, Ali, is there any good fishing here?*' 

" Yes, oh yes. I'll take you in my boat, and my men shall 
catch plenty." 

'*No, no," said Bob. "You take me in the boat, and I'll 
catch the fish. But is there any shooting ? " 

"Shooting!" said the young Malay, laughing; "everything; 
bird that flies, bird that swims, tigers, buffalo, deer." 

" Where ? " cried Bob, excitedly. 

" In the great forest ¡ª the jungle. Will you come ? " 

"Will I come?" cried Bob. "Won't I ! I say," he went on, 
excitedly, " you can't shoot, can you ? " 

" I practise sometimes," said the young Malay, quietly. 

" What with ? A blow-pipe ? " 

" Yes, I can use the sumpitan," said the young Malay, nodding; 
" but I use a revolver or a rifle." 

"I believe I'm half asleep," muttered Bob. " Haven't got a 

gun, have you ? " 

" Yes ; an English gentleman changed with me. I gave him 
ivory and gold, and he gave me his double gun." 

" Not a breechloader? " said Bob. 

" Yes, a breechloader ¡ª a Purdey he called it, and a bag of 
cartridges," 



"Oh, I say," cried Bob; "this is rich, you know. I am sorry 
I was such an idiot with you at first. But do you mean it? If 
I get a day ashore, will you take me where there's some good 
shooting ? " 

" Oh, yes, plenty," was the reply. 

Bob Roberts was thoughtful for a few moments. 

" I say," he said at last, " I wish Tom Long were here." 

" En ¡ª sign Long ? " said Ali. 

" Yes. He's a very cocky fellow, you know ; but he's a good 
one at bottom." 

" Should I like him ? " 

" Yes, when you got to know him ; but he only shows some 
fellows his clothes.'' 

" I don't want to see his clothes," said Ali, smiling, 

** I mean, some people never get to know what's inside him," 
said Bob, 

" What is ' inside him ' ? " said Ali, whom these mysteries of 
the English tongue somewhat puzzled. " Do you mean what he 
has had to eat ? " 

'* No, no;" said Bob, laughing. "I mean his heart." 

" Show people his heart ? " said Ali, thoughtfully, " Oh yes, 
I see ; I understand. You mean he is cold outside, and proud, 
and does not show people what he really thinks ¡ª like a Malay ? " 

"Yes, that's what I mean," said Bob, smiling. "But that's 
like a Malay, is it ? They say one thing, and mean another, do 

they ? " , 

" Yes," said Ali, gravely ¡ª " to their enemies ¡ª to the people who 

try to cheat and deceive them. To their real friends they are 

very true, and full of faith. But it is time now that I should go." 

"I say, though, stop a minute," said Bob sharply. "Are your 
people really good friends to us ? " 

" Yes," said the visitor, " I hope so. I believe so. They are 
strange at first, and do not like English ways, like I, Afterwards 
they will do the same as I do. Good-bye." 

"But about our shooting?" said Bob. "May I bring Tom 

Long ? " 

" I should like to know En ¡ª sign Long. He is very brave, is 
he not ? " 

" Pretty bobbish, I believe," said the middy. 

" Is he bobbish, too, like you. Are you not Bob Bobbish ? " 

" No, no, I'm Bob Roberts," said the middy, laughing. " I 
mean, Tom Long is as brave as most fellows." 

There was a short consultation then as to time and place of 
meeting ; after which the young Malay passed over the side into 
his boat, rowed by four followers, and was quicHy pulled ashore; 



CHAPTER XV. 



HOW THE SULTAN WAS PUT OFF WITH WORDS. 

There was a good deal of communication now between the 
sultan and the resident, and rumours began flying about that the 
former proposed paying a visit to the residency ; but the days 
glided by, and it did not take place. The men who had been 
wounded were rapidly recovering ; and after several attempts to 
find the missing prahus, it was announced one evening, in a 
quiet way, that there was to be another expedition down the 
river, for information had been brought in by a Malay boatman, 
who had been employed to act as a scout, that the two vessels 
were lying-up in a creek on the left bank of the river. It would 
therefore be quite easy for the steamer to float down stream off 
where they lay, and either send in boats to the attack or to 
shatter them by sweeping the mangroves with the steamer*s great 
guns, for the prahus lay behind a thick grove of these trees some 
twenty or thirty yards across, quite sufficient for a screen, but 
worse than useless as a protection if the heavy guns were once 
brought to bear. 

Messages had come again and again from the sultan, urging 
that the power of the rajah should be thoroughly crushed ; in 
fact, his requests almost took the tone of a command. 

There was a disposition to resent this, but it was felt better to 
temporize, and word was sent to the sultan by a trusty messenger 
that something would be done. 

The result of this was another visit from the leading chiefs, who 
rather startled the resident by the message they brought, which 
was to the effect that their master thought it would be better that 
his marriage to the two Englishwomen should take place at once; 
and what did Mr Linton think of the next day ? 

Mr Linton thought, but he did not tell the sultan*s ambassa- 
dors so, that he would consult Major Sandars and Captain 
Horton ; and this he did while the messengers waited. 




Major Sandars blew his nose very loudly, and said he should 
like to kick the villain. 

Captain Horton said that nothing would give him greater 

pleasure than to have this Mr Hamet tied up and to give him six 
dozen. 

"This is all very well, gentlemen," said Mr Linton, smiling ; 
*' but it does not help me out of my difficulty. What am I to 
say so as not to offend this man ? " 

*'0h, you must offend him," said the major. "I can see 
nothing for it, but to send him word that the English ladies 
are greatly honoured by the sultanas proposal, but that they 
cannot accept it." 

Captain Horton nodded approval, and the resident agreed 
that they could do nothing better ; so the message was delivered 
to the sultan's ambassadors, who looked exceedingly depressed 
upon hearing it, and as if they would have gladly exchanged 
places with somebody else. 

" Those fellows expect to get into trouble," said the major, as 
he noticed the change. 

He was quite right, for the two chiefs took their departure, 
looking as if they expected to be introduced by their wrathful 
ruler to the execution kris as soon as they returned. 

The troops had been expecting orders for a trip down the 
river in search of the two prahus, but the command came upon 
them, as such matters usually do, just when it was least expected. 
One company, under Captain Smithers, was ordered to embark, 
but to Tom Long's great disgust, he found he was not included. 

He hurried to the doctor's quarters, and found that gentleman 
busy with a case of instruments, open before him. 

" Look here, Long," he said; "did you ever see such a wretched 
country as this ? Everything rusts ; look at my instruments." 

"Yes, sir, it is terrible ; such fine steel too." 

" Fine steel ? There isn't a better case in the army. I could 
do anything with these tools." 

Tom Long shuddered as he glanced at the long, fearfully 
keen knives, and the saw ¡ª so horribly suggestive of taking oflf 

arms and legs. 

Doctor Bolter saw it, and smiled to himself. 

" Come to say good-bye, Long? " he said, as he stuffed some 
lint into a pouch, with some bandages. "I'm not a fighting 
man, and don't mean to be killed." 

" No, sir. I came to ask you to let me go ¡ª to give me a 
certificate, saying I am quite well enough." 

" But you are not, my dear boy. You are too weak." 





" Weak, sir ? No, I feel as strong as a Hon. Let me go, doctor." 

" What nonsense, my dear lad ! I'm not the commandant. 
Ask the major." 

" No, sir," said Tom Long. " You are not the commandant 
by name, but from the major downwards you do just as you like 
with us. Hang me if I'd have drunk such filthy stuff as you 
gave me, by the major's orders. I'd sooner have lost my com- 
mission." 

" Ha, ha, ha ! Ha, ha, ha ! '* laughed the doctor. ? That's 
very good, Long, very good indeed. I suppose I do get the 
better of all of you in turn. Ha, ha, ha ! But look here, my 
dear boy, I don't think you are well enough yet.'' 

" Do let me go, doctor," pleaded Tom. " There, I don't want 
to fight, but let me go with you and help yon. This dreadful 
do-nothing sort of life seems to make me worse." 

" Idleness is bad for any man," said the doctor. 

Tom Long felt flattered at being called a man, but still 
looked pleadingly at the doctor. 

" I could take care of your instruments, sir, and hand you 
what you wanted if there were any of our fellows hurt." 

" Humph 1 yes, you could do that," said the doctor. " But 

look here," he said, gazing searchingly into the youth's face ; 
"did you take your medicine to-day?" 

" Yes, sir, three times," cried Tom, eagerly ; for, after neglect- 
ing it for two days* previously, he had taken it that day by way of 
a salve to his conscience. 

" Then you shall go," said the doctor. ** Be quick. Get your 
great coat ¡ª and mind, you are to be my assistant" 

Tom Long ran back to his quarters, and doctor's assistant or 
no, he buckled on his sword, and stuck his revolver in its case, 
before putting on his grey great coat ; meeting the detachment 
on its way down to the boat. 

"Hallo, Long, what are you doing here?" said Captain 
Smithers. " You are not detailed for duty." 

" No," said the doctor, sharply, " he is coming on hospital 
service." 

There was no time for argument, so they marched on down 
to the *' Startler's " boats, which were waiting, and at once put 
off silently, the swift stream bearing them quickly to the steamer's 
side, as she lay there with her steam up, but not a light visible 
to tell those upon the shore of the projected expedition. There 
was the low dull hiss and snort of the escaping steam ; and one 
versed in such matters would have noticed that the steamer 
had let go her moorings at the stem, and swung round in the 



stream, holding on hard by the stem, ready to slip the cable and 

start. 

But Captain Horton felt pretty secure of getting away unob- 
served ; and trusting to the keen eyes of a couple of Malay boat- 
men, he calculated upon getting the steamer just abreast of the 
mangrove creek where the prahus lay, and then dealing with 
them and their crews as he pleased. 

The distance do^vn was about ten miles ; and the stream was 
so swift, that in a couple of hours the steamer would have run 
down without the aid of her screw ; but it was proposed to steam 
for about two-thirds of the distance, and then drift in silence, 
with a turn of the screw now and then to keep her head right. 

The river was so deep, and clear of obstruction, that there was 
nothing to fear in their journey down, while fortunately the night, 
though not illuminated by the moon, was tolerably light. 

The arrangements were soon made, and directly the boats 
were hoisted up the cable was slipped from the great buoy, and 
the steamer drifted down stream, the steam power being kept 
in abeyance until they were some distance below the campong. 

In his character of doctor's assistant, Tom Long did not mix 
with the officers in command of the little detachment, and was 
standing aloof leaning over the bulwarks, and gazing at the 
fire-flies on the shore, when he heard a familiar voice close by. 

" Think those Malay chaps will be able to see the. creek on 
a night like this, Dick ? " 

"See it, Master Roberts, sir? Why, I could see it myself if 
I tried, and knowed where to look for it Bless yer 'art, they 
Malay chaps have got eyes like cats, and can see in the dark," 

" Oh yes, I dare say," said Bob. " Well, all I can say is, I 
hope we shall knock the prahus into splinters. I do owe those 
fellows a grudge for being chucked overboard as I was. It makes 
me feel wet now to think of it" 

"Yes, that 'ere war a rum un, Master Roberts, sir," said Dick, 
solemnly. " Now, look here, sir, you being a boy like, and not 
wanted, if I was you, I'd just go down below, get on my perch, 
and tuck myself up and go to roost where I should be quite 
safe." 

"Thank you, Dick," said Bob, quietiy; "I'm going to stop 
on deck, and then go with the party ashore. We'll leave the 
old men and old women on board to take charge of the ship till 
we come back." 

" That's as good as saying I'm a regular old woman, Master 
Roberts, sir," said Dick, grinning. 

Bob did not condescend to reply, but walked aft a little way, 




to where he could see a dark figure half-leaning, half-sitting in 
the darkness upon a gun, and looking over the bulwarks. 

" Here, you sir,'' he said sharply, " come away from that gun. 
Why are you not with the detachment forward there ? " 

" Oh, you be hanged ! " said a familiar voice. 

''What? Tom Long?" 

" That's my name, Mr Roberts," said the dark figure. 

** Why, I thought you were in hospital yet." 

** I'm on hospital service," replied Tom. " I got the doctor to 
bring me." 

? I say¡ª I am glad," said Bob. '* Eh ? [' 

He stopped short, for Tom Long had pinched his arm. 

" Isn't that a long low vessel moored there under the bank ? " 
said Tom. 

Bob looked long and attentively. 

" I think so ¡ª two of them," he said. " I'll tell the officer of 
the watch." 

He turned aft and pointed out the dimly seen objects. 

" Yes, I think they are prahus moored to the trees," he said, 
examining them through the glass. 

The officer reported what he had seen to the captain, who also 
inspected them through a night glass. 

"Yes, coasting boats, I think. We'll overhaul them as we 
come back, we must not stop now." 

The vessel was now steaming steadily down stream, not 
quickly, for there were too many turns, but sufficiently fast to 
bring them rapidly near their goal. 

" Let's see ; I want to have a talk to you, Tom Long, about a 
trip ashore¡ªshooting," said Bob. 

"Silence there, young gentleman," said the officer of the watch 
sternly, and then Bob was called suddenly away, so that he had 
no opportunity for a quiet chat with the young ensign. 

Meanwhile the heavy throb throb of the steamer was the only 
noise heard save some weird cry of animal or bird in the dense 
jungle on either side. But every now and then as the waves and 
wash of the steamer rolled ashore, churning up the mud, they 
startled the dull, heavy alligators into activity, sending them 
scurrying off the muddy banks into deep water, to await the 
passing of the, to them, large water monster, whose great bulk 
dwarfed them into insignificance the most extreme. 

Lower and lower down stream went the steamer with the dense 
black line of jungle on either side, till at the suggestion of the 
Malay pilots the steam was turned oif, a couple of boats lowered, 
and the position of the vessel being reversed, she was allowed to 




float down head to stream, for quite another half-hour, when the 
word having been given, a small anchor that had been hanging 
down in the water was let go, without so much as a plash, the 
stout hemp cable ran quietly out, and the vessel was checked just 
off the narrow mouth of a creek, which seemed to run up amidst 
the palms and undergrowth, for there were no mangroves till the 
tidal waters were reached. 

There was a little rapid passing to and fro here, and a couple 
of boats were silently lowered down, to go a quarter of a mile 
below to watch the other entrance to the creek, for the Malays 
were too fox-like not to have a hole for exit as well as one for 
entry. But everything was done in the most noiseless manner, 
so that when three more boats full of soldiers, marines, and 
sailors rowed off for the creek, no one would have imagined that 
they had slipped oif on a deadly errand, or that the steamer was 
cleared for action, the guns shotted and every man ready to let 
loose a deadly hail that should cut down the jungle like a scythe 
amidst the corn. 

But the British officers had yet to learn that the Malays were 
more than their equals in cunning. No sooner had the steamer 
passed on into the bank of mist and darkness that overhung the 
river, than there was a rustle, a splash, the rattling noise of large 
oars being thrust out, and in a couple of minutes the two long 
snaky prahus they had passed crammed with fighting men were 
gliding up stream towards the residency, where certainly there 
were sentries on guard, but no dread of an enemy at hand. 

The boats then had pushed off from the steamer, which lay 
ready to help them, and rowing out of the swift waters of the 
river they began to ascend the dark and muddy creek, when 
Bob Roberts, who was with the lieutenant and part of the soldiers 
in the same boat suddenly whispered ¡ª 

" Hark ! wasn't that distant firing?" 

They listened, but could hear nothing, and the lieutenant was 
about to order the men to pull more sharply, when Bob touched 
his arm again. 

"I'm sure that's firing, sir," he said. 

" Nonsense, Roberts ! absurd ! Sit still and be silent What 
firing could it be ? We are ten miles from the residency." 

" 1 can't help it, sir, if we are twenty," said Bob, sharply. 
" I'm sure it was firing, and there it goes again." 

" Silence, sir," said the lieutenant, angrily. " Give way, my 
lads, give way." 

The ship's boats glided on over the smooth water, the men 
rowing with muffled oars ; and so steadily that the blades seemed 
to be dipping in without making a splash. 




The creek grew narrower, so that they had to keep right in the 
middle to avoid letting the oar blades brush the reeds, and so 
they rowed on, but without seeing anything resembling a prahu. 

As to their direction, that they could not tell, but the shape of 
the creek they believed to be that of a bow ¡ª at least so the 
Malays had described it ; and as the two ends of the bow must 
rest upon the river, they were sure, unless they struck up some 
narrow tortuous way, to come out at the other mouth and join 
the boats. 

They went on very cautiously, with the midshipman anxious 
to talk to Tom Long, who sat beside him, but forbidden now to 
utter so much as a whisper. The oars dipped and rose, dipped 
and rose, without a sound, and sometimes a reed or water plant 
rustled slightly as it brushed the sides of the boats. 

That in which the lieutenant was in command led the weird 
procession, Captain Smithers being in the next, while the third, 
nearly full of marines, every man with his loaded rifle between 
his knees, was close behind. 

Still there was no sign of the prahus, and to the lieutenant's 
great annoyance, he found that in the darkness they must have 
turned up the sluggish stream that flowed into the creek, and 
missed the continuation, which was probably masked with reeds. 

He felt ready to stamp with vexation, but controlling himself 
he passed the word, and the boats backed down the stream, that 
in which the officer in command was seated naturally being the 
last of the three. 

" Wouldn't it have been better to have brought the Malays, 
sir?" said Bob. 

" Yes, of course ; but the cowards were afraid to come, my 
good lad," said the lieutenant. 

*' There, sir,*' whispered Bob again, " isn't that firing?" 

" If you say another word to me about your confounded 
firing,'* said the lieutenant sharply, " I'll have you gagged, sir.'* 

" I don't want to talk about it, sir," grumbled Bob, " but I'm 
sure there's something wrong up yonder.'* 

** And I'm sure there's something wrong here, Mr Roberts," 
said the lieutenant, " and that's enough for me to attend to." 

They went back in silence for some time, and then Tom Long, 
whose eyes were unusually good, pointed to a part of the reed- 
bed on the right. 

" Is not that the continuation of the creek, sir?" 

'Yes, to be sure, so it is," said the lieutenant. "We can see 
it coming this way. It's masked by those trees the other way. 
Steady, my lads 3 steady. Let us go first** 





The creek was wider here, so the boats turned, and retook 
their former positions ; but still there was no sign of the prahus. 

" Those scoundrels must have led us wrong," muttered the 
lieutenant ; there's nothing here. Why, yonder's the open river, 
isn't it \ or is it a wider space ? Yes, thank goodness j there are 
the prahus after all." 

He waited till the other boats closed up, and then whispered 
his final orders, appointing two boats to attack one of the prahus 
while he made for the other alone. 

"Now then," he whispered, "are you all ready? A bold 
dash, my lads, and they are ours." 

"Please, sir," said old Dick, 

" What is it ? " cried the lieutenant, angrily. 

" Them's our own two boats. I'd swear to 'em." 

" And I'm sure that's firing," cried Bob, aloud. 

" Yes," said Tom Long, speaking excitedly ; " those were the 
two prahus we passed on the way down." 

" And they are attacking the residency," cried Bob. 

Even as he spoke there was a shot fired from the steamer to 
recall the boats, and the men bent to their stout ashen oars with 
all their might, the lieutenant as he leaped on board being met 
by Captain Horton with, ¡ª 

" These Malay tigers are a little too cunning for us, Johnson. 
Those were the prahus we passed on the way down." 

" Yes, sir, another slip ; but we may have them yet" 



CHAPTER XVI. 



HOW PRIVATE SIM TOOK A NAP, AND FOUND IT UNPLEASANT. 

A GENERAL feeling of uneasiness had been excited as soon as it 
was known that the " Startler " had left her moorings to go in 
search of the two escaped prahus. Mr Linton did not feel happy in 
his own mind, though he did not communicate his fears to a soul. 

Still he might have spoken openly, for it would not have caused 
greater terrors in the breasts of his daughter and niece, who were 
fo^ some reason or another too full of vague fears to retire to 
rest. It did not occur to them to associate their sensations with 
the departure of the steamer. In fact if they had so done, they 
would not have harboured the thought for a moment, knowing 
as they did how well-protected they were by the sturdy little 
garrison of troops, only about a third of whicli had gone upon the 
expedition. 

Both Tom Long and Bob Roberts might have been conceited 
enough to think that the uneasiness of the ladies was entirely 
upon their account, and they would have been terribly upset to 
know that not a single thought concerning them had crossed the 
minds of either since the departure. 

It was, in fact, a vague feeling of general uneasiness, such as 

might have been suffered at any time by those who were com- 
paratively alone in the midst of a notoriously hostile, and even 
treacherous people, some of whom were friendly to the English, 
though the majority bore them the most intense hate. 

Even the Major was out of spirits, and told Mrs Major that he 
would after all a great deal rather be at home, than out in such 
a treacherous, krising, throat-cutting place as Parang. 

" And a very nice thing to say too," said Mrs Major Sandars, 
" just too as we are going to bed. I shall now lie awake all 
night thinking, and keep seeing brown men climbing in through 
the blinds, and be uneasy as can be.*' 

*^ Don't talk nonsense," said the Major, gruffly. " But really 

IVe a good mind to have the sentries increased in number." 




" I really would, if I were you," said Mrs Major. 
" No ; second thoughts are best. There is no occasion to 
harass the men with extra duty; and, besides, I'm nearly 

undressed." 

So the Major and Mrs Major went to bed, as did the majority 
of those at the station, excepting, of course, the officer and th-e 

guard. 

There was one man though who shared the feeling of uneasi- 
ness. Earlier in the night he had been disappointed at not being 
called upon to form one of the Httle company for the expedition, 
for he was raging with desire to in some way distinguish himself. 
He was a mere private soldier, but he told himself that the way 
to honour was open ; and though a long and wearisome one for 
a private, still he might win his way to promotion ¡ª corporal, 
sergeant ¡ª some day, perhaps, ensign ; and so on, till he became, 
may-be, adjutant of his regiment. 

He could not sleep that evening, and crushing down the feelings 
that oppressed him, he told himself it was the heat, and dressing 
lightly, he went out into the comparative coolness of the night. 

He had not gone far before he was reminded that there was 
watchfulness around ; for he was challenged by first one and then 
another sentry, who, however, in turn, let him pass, on finding 
who it was. And so he wandered restlessly here and there 
amidst the trees, longing to go in one direction, but fighting hard 
against the desire ; as he told himself with a bitter smile that 
some of the old poison of the water-snake must still be in his 
blood, and be the cause of all this restlessness and pain. 

He had wandered here and there for some time, seating him- 
self amidst the trees, and then going down to the landing-place 
to gaze at the calm swift river that eddied and gurgled amidst 
the water-washed boats and masses of rush at the edge of the 
island, wondering the while whether possibly at some time or 
another the effect of the constant washing of the water might not 
be to completely sweep away the island. " Not in our time of 
possession," he said to himself; and turning slowly away he 
stood hesitating for a while, and then, in spite of his self-restraint 
he took the path leading to Mr Linton's house, to convince him- 
self, so he mentally said, that the place was quite safe. 

The " place " in his brain really meant one solitary being in 
that house, for if he felt assured that Rachel Linton was sleeping 
peacefully, and with no overhanging danger, he said that he 
should be satisfied. 

He went on then cautiously, getting nearer and nearer to the 
house, and feeling surprised that he was not challenged by a 




sentry, till he was quite close up, and then his heart began to 
beat fast, for he fancied he heard whispering voices, and at last, 
after intense listening, he was quite sure. 

Here then weis the danger ; not such danger as he had fanci- 
fully imagined ¡ª the swimming of tigers from the mainland, or 
some noxious reptile ; it was from man that the peril was to 
come. 

He stole on again, making not a sound. And now he recalled 
how some Malay had swum to the island and hurled a spear in 
through one of the residency windows- 

** Good heavens ! " he muttered ; "and I am quite unarmed." 

As this thought occurred to him, he could hear the whisperitig 
continued ; and mingled with it there seemed to come a sound 
of hard breathing, like a sleeper close at hand. 

It was so ¡ª the sentry asleep ; and following the sound two or 
three yards, Adam Gray bent over a prostrate form, and caught 
up the rifle with fixed bayonet, seeing at the same moment that 
it was Private Sim. 

He was about to kick the fellow, but he thought that by so 
doing he should be spreading the alarm, perhaps prematurely ; 
BO he walked cautiously forward towards where the whispering 

seemed to be. 

It was so dark amidst the trees that he could hardly make out 
his position ; but directly after it seemed to him that the sounds 
came from an upper window ; and as the thought struck him he 
stepped upon a piece of dry cane, which snapped beneath his 
feet. 

To bring his rifle to the present was the work of an instant ; 
and as he did so a quick voice exclaimed, 

" Who is there ? Is that the sentry ? " 

" Yes, ma'am," he replied ; feeling the blood tingle in his face, 
as he recognized the voice. 

" We thought we heard the hard breathing of some beast, or 
some one asleep," said Rachel Linton, with her voice shaking a 
little as she spoke, "and we were afraid." 

''There was ¡ª there is some one asleep here, ma'am;" said 
Gray, trying to speak calmly and quietly j " but I am on duty 
now." 

" It is Private Gray, Rachel, whom you attended to," said 
another voice, " Let us go in now, we shall be quite safe." 

"Yes," said Rachel, in a low voice, meant only for herself; 
but heard plainly in the utter silence of that night, " we shall be 
quite safe now." 

" Good-night, sentry," said Mary Sinclair. 



" Good-night, ma'am," replied Gray ; and he stood and heard 
the shutter blind closed with a bitter feeling of annoyance at his 
heart. 

"My name seems to have driven her away," he muttered. 
"At any rate, though, I am of some use," he said soon after; 
"she feels safe when I am by," 

Ail was perfectly still now, except the heavy breathing of 
Private Sim ; and Gray stood thinking what he should do. 

Should he wake up Sim ? 
- No ; if he did, he would have to leave him on duty, when he 
would go to sleep again, and something horrible might happen. 

What was to happen ? he asked himself. 

That he could not say ; but on one thing he determined at once, 
and that was, to take Private Sim's place and to keep guard. 

But then Sim's lapse of duty would be found out, and he 
would be severely punished. 

Richly he deserved it; but perhaps a severe taking to task 
might suffice to awaken him to a sense of his duty ; and there- 
fore Gray felt that he would be lenient, and not betray him, 
though it was horrible to think that the lives of all on the island 
might be betrayed to death by the neglect of such a fellow as 

this. 

Private Gray was a man of quick decision, and his mind was 
made up at once. He would keep on duty till it was time for 
the guard to be changed, and then he would wake up Sim, and 
see that a responsible man took his place. 

" The lazy, untrustworthy scoundrel ! " he muttered, as he 
shouldered the rifle and walked up and down for a few minutes 
along the sentry's post But matters were not to be ordered as 
he intended, for he had not been on duty very long before he 
heard a sound from the river that made him start and listen 

attentively. 

"Nothing ! " he said to himself after a few seconds* attention; 
and he once more resumed his slow march up and down, the 
motion seeming to calm him, for when standing still his thoughts 

tortured him. 

" There it is again," he said to himself, suddenly. " It is a 
boat of some kind." 

Plainly enough now he had heard the peculiar creak given by 
an oar rubbing against wood, and this was repeated again and 
again. 

He strained his eyes in the direction from which it came, but 
could see nothing for the trees. Feeling, though, that he ought 
to act, he went to where Private Sim still lay sleeping heavily 





and gave him a lusty kick, with the effect of making him start 
to his feet 

" I only ¡ª oh, it's you Private Gray," he said, huskily, " I 
thought it was the sergeant." 

" You untrustworthy villain ! " whispered Gray. " Silence, 
this moment. Take your rifle, and keep watch till I return." 

*' Who are you talking to like that ? " said Sim, in a bullying 
tone. 

" You, sir," replied Gray, in a low, authoritative manner, which 
made the man shrink. " Do you wish me to report that I found 
you sleeping at your post ? Silence I no words. There is a large 
boat of some kind approaching ; be on the look-out and challenge, 
and fire if necessary." 

Private Sim did not answer, but stood on the alert, while Gray 
ran back in the direction of the fort. 

Before he was half-way there, though, he heard the challenge ot 
a sentry on his right, followed by a faint cry and a heavy fall. 

The challenge was repeated by another sentry farther away, 
and this time there was the report of a sentry's rifle ; and directly 
after came from behind him, where he had left Private Sim, the 
report of another piece. 

He knew it must be Sim, and as danger was there, his first 
impulse was to run back to the help of the ladies and the resi- 
dent. His second thought told him that he was unarmed, and 
such an act would be madness. It must take some time for an 
enemy to break into the place, and before then the soldiers would 
have turned out. 

In fact the bugle rang out as he hurried on through the dark- 
ness, being compelled to turn back twice ; for he heard the 
trampling of feet and rustling of the leaves as people forced 
their way through, and he was obliged to make somewhat of a 
ddtour. 

Even then somebody struck at him, a blow which he returned 

with his fist, sending his assailant staggering back amidst the 
bushes, while he ran on, to hear a limbing whistle by his ear. 

Shot after shot had meanwhile been fired, fully giving the 
alarm, and by the time Gray reached the fort, after an extremely 
perilous run ¡ª for the way seemed to swarm with enemies ; and 
even now he did not know whether he was wounded or no, for 
he had felt two heavy blows in the chest and back ¡ª he found the 
men falling in, and catching his lifle and belts from the stand he 
joined them. 

Major Sandars was with them, in nothing but his shirt and 
trousers and bare feet, but he had not forgotten his sword, and 




in a few short words he made his arrangements for the defence 
of the fort, while, to Gray's great delight, he detailed a party of 
a dozen men, under a lieutenant, to go down to the residency. 

" You must act according to circumstances, Mr Ellis," he said 
quietly. " It is impossible to tell who or how many our assail- 
ants are; but the darkness that favour?, them will also favour 
you. Your orders are to get somehow to the residency, and 
hold it or bring its occupants away, according to circumstances." 

The lieutenant saluted, and the dozen men, among whom was 
Gray, were marched to the gate. 

There was not one Bxaong them who had done more than slip 
on his trousers, so that they were in light fighting trim ; and as 
soon as they were outside the gate, the lieutenant gave the word 
"Quick march ¡ª double 1*' and away they went in single file 
along the narrow path. 

Before they could reach the residency their pulses began to 
throb, for there were the sharp, quick reports of a revolver, fired 
six times in succession. Then a rifle spoke, and another 
followed by a desultory firing as if in reply. 

Then from behind came the loud, heavy report of a brass 
lelah, fired evidently from some boat on the river ; then another, 
and another, with more desultory firing. 

" Come along my lads ; our fellows will talk to them directly." 
There was a crashing volley just then. 

*' I told you so. That's English, my lads. Steady, steady ; 
don't get out of breath. As we get out of the wood here, form 
up directly in the open, and wait till we can see by the firing 
where the enemy is. Then we'll give him a volley, and charge 
at once right for the verandah, where we'll take our places, and 
act as is afterwards necessary." 

The men followed their leader's commands to the letter; 
formed up in a little line outside the path, and stood there wait- 
ing in the darkness, watching the flashing of a revolver fired 
from one of the residency windows, and the quick streaks of 
light from a party of the enemy, whoever that enemy might be, 
just in front. 

" Ready I'' cried the lieutenant ; and as he gave his command 
there was the quick rattle of the pieces, then a ringing little 
volley, the cry Forward I and on the party dashed with a hearty 
hurrah, which had the eff'ect of stopping the fire from the 
residency, Mr Linton and his servant, w^ho had been defending 
the place, recognizing the voices of friends. 

The little line, with fixed bayonets, dashed over and swept 
down a cluster of Malays who tried to meet their attack with 



spears before taking to flight, and the next moment, it seemed 
to Gray, he was standing with his comrades in the verandah, re- 
loading. 

"Any one down?** cried the lieutenant, sharply, 

" No, sir ; no, sir," was repeated on all sides. 

" All right then, my boys ; make cover of anything ¡ª posts, 
flower vases, anything you can j and we must hold on. Fire 
where you have a chance ; but don't waste a shot" 

The opening of a door changed the plans, for Mr Linton's 
voice was heard saying, ¡ª 

** Come in quickly ; and we can fire from the windows." 

This little evolution was soon performed, but under fire, for 
the Malays sent a desultory series of shots, in company with 
flying spears, though without any effect, while as soon as the rest 
of the upper windows were thrown open the men knelt down 
behind what was an excellent breastwork, and maintained a 
steady fire wherever they saw a flash. 

Meanwhile there was some sharp volley firing from the direo 
tion of the fort, in reply to that of the enemy's brass lelahs. This 
was soon after followed by the heavy roar of a larger gun on 
board one of the prahus, to which the occupants of the little 
fort could not reply, on account of the darkness, and the fact 
that one of the attacking prahus was between them and the 
campong, while the other was so sheltered by trees that it would 
have been folly to have fired. 

The attack was weak in the extreme ¡ª the Malays running 
forward, firing a shot or two, and then retreating to cover 5 and 
this was kept up for a considerable time, the enemy evidently 
thinking that as the defenders were weak through the departure 
of the steamer, they would soon give in. 

It was evident that they were staggered by the defence, for 
they had no doubt hoped to surprise both fort and residency. 
In token of this, the attacking party retreated two or three times 
over, as if to ask for advice or fresh orders from their boats ¡ª 
orders that were pretty decisive, for they came on each time 
more keenly than before, the last time with bundles of inflam- 
mable wood and reeds, with which they boldly advanced to the 
verandah of the residency, throwing them down and then rapidly 
retreating. 

Lieutenant Ellis no sooner became aware of this, though, than 
he got his men out from a side window, formed up, waited their 
time till the Malays came on, shouting, with a burning torch of 

inflammable resin, and then gave them a volley, followed by a 

charge. 





The enemy gave way at once, but only for a few moments; 
then their numbers seemed to become augmented, and with a 
tremendous rush they bore back the little party of soldiers step 
by step. Numbers fell, but they paid no heed to this ; and the 
lieutenant began to wish earnestly that they were safe back 
within the walls of the residency, when there was a roar like 
thunder, then the beating of gongs on both sides of the island. 
Then another roar, and another, and the Englishmen began to 
cheer and pursue, for the Malays were rushing in the direction 
of the gongs. 

But it was no time for pursuing this crowd of Malays into 
narrow paths through dark woods. They had maintained their 
defence till the steamer had returned, and now she was firing 
regularly, gun after gun, in the direction of the prahus, but doing 
no harm, the darkness giving them no opportunity for taking aim. 

The firing of the steamer's big Armstrongs had, however, the 
eifect of causing a sauve gut pent style of retreat amidst the 
Malays ; and at the end of ten minutes the sweeps of the prahus 
were in full work, and the whole party rapidly making their 
way up the river once more to some fresh hiding-place, from 
which they could issue to deal ruin and destruction wherever 
they pleased. 



CHAPTER XVIL 



HOW DICK BUYS A RAJAH, AND HIS FIRST LUFF OBJECTS. 

The rapid rate at which the tw^o prahus went away from the 
island after the attacking party had scrambled in was sufficient 
to show those on board the ** Startler" how impossible it would 
be to overtake them by means of boats. The only way would 
be to surprise their crews, or to sink them with the guns of the 
steamer next time they tried to pass down the river. 

Congratulations in plenty were exchanged as soon as the com- 
munications were effected, though a good deal of annoyance was 
felt at being again out-manoeuvred by the Malay cunning. 

One thing was very evident, and that was that there would be 
no safety for the residency while so daring a chieftain as Rajah 
Gantang was at liberty, with his two cleverly managed prahus. 

No further alarms took place during the night, and in the 
morning the amount of damage done was found to be nothing 
more than a little carpentering and painting would restore. The 
real damage done was to the British prestige, which, in spite of 
the brave defence, had received a blow in the eyes of the Malays. 

Judging the matter fairly next morning, Mr Linton and the 
officers came to the conclusion, after a careful inspection, that 
though it would have been necessary for the occupants of the 
residency to have fled to the little fort, half-a-dozen such desul- 
tory attacks would have done the latter no real harm. 

" No," said Major Sandars, aloud; " for my part, if provisioned, 
I should see no difficulty in holding our place against half-a- 
dozen rajahs. There is only one way in which we could be hit.*' 

"And that is ?*' said Captain Horton. 

''By a surprise such as they treated us to last night. There is 
no other way in which they could harm us." 

Adam Gray heard his words, and in silence made an addition 
to them. 

" They could harm us by treachery, or by the neglect of our 
sentries." 





The dark scene of the previous night flashed across his mind 
as he thought this, and he recalled Private Sim's recumbent form 
amidst the grass, wondering the while whether he ought not to 
relate what had taken place, and so obtain for the itWovf the 
punishment he deserved. 

Finally, he made up his mind to let matters take their course, 
after giving Sim to understand that he should report him if such 
a thing came under his notice again. 

The sultan sent word that he was most grieved to hear of this 
new attack, and begged the resident to spare no pains to root the 
rajah and his followers off the face of the earth. He assured Mr 
Linton, by his messengers, that he felt the insult as bitterly as if 
it had been offered to himself; while even now, surrounded as 
he was by faithful followers, he never dared sleep twice in the 
same place in his. house, for fear that an envoy of the rajah 
should pass a kris up between the bamboos that formed the 
flooring, and assassinate him. 

The message sent back was that no effort should be spared to 
rid the river of so dangerous a neighbour; but opportunity failed 
to offer for carrying out the promise. 

Anywhere within a mile or two of the sultan's campong the 
people were ready enough to give information to the English, 
when a boat was sent to cruise about and endeavour to find 
where the rajah had hidden; but beyond that distance they 
were met with stern looks of distrust, and it was evident to the 
officers in charge that the rajah was perfectly safe, his influence 
being too great amongst the people for any one to act as in- 
former. 

This added a good deal to the feeling of insecurity felt at the 

residency ; and to counteract this the ship's carpenters were set 

to work to contrive stout shutters with loopholes for barricading, 
and also make the doors more secure. 

The fort with its little barrack was already pretty safe, and of 
course so long as the steamer lay there, any attacking prahus 
could be literally blown out of the river ; but there was always 
the risk of the steamer being called away, and in view of this Mr 
Linton increased the arms and ammunition at his house, and also 
asked for an extra sentry. 

In a few days the night attack had lost the greater part of its 
terrors, for the steamer was not likely to be moved at present, 
and boats were almost constantly out patrolling the river in 
search of the enemy. 

Every sampan or prahu that came down the stream was 
stopped, boarded, and searched, at first greatly to the annoyanct 




of their occupants. Several times over efforts were made to slip 
by, but the report of a heavy gun fired across their bows 
brought the Malays to their senses, and they humbly submitted 
to the overhauling. 

These boats were for the most part laden with rice, fruit, or 
slabs of tin, and of these every rajah up the river made a practice 
of taking toll for payment of his permission to pass down the 
stream. 

The occupants of a prahu then might already have paid tax 
two or three times, and the appearance of this new power in the 
river was resented strongly ; but when it was found that no tin 
was taken from them, and that when rice, or fruit, or poultry was 
taken, the full market value was paid in dollars, a strong friendly 
feeling sprang up mingled with respect. 

The news soon spread, and from that time whenever a trading 
boat came down from the upper country, the sight of an English 
boat was sufficient to make the Malays lie on their oars or pole, 
and await the coming of the English officer to board. 

There came quite a calm over the little settlement about this 
time. The rajah was not heard of, and information, true or 
false, was brought in that the prahus were high up the stream, 
where they had been rowed during a flood, and taken up a 
tributary of the main river, where, on the cessation of the flood, 
they remained grounded and out of reach. 

The sultan seemed to have forgotten his disappointment about 
the ladies, and the soldiers and sailors were enjojdng a time of 
indolent ease, their greatest excitement being a little drill. Pro- 
visions were plentiful, fruit abundant, with as much native tobacco 
as the men liked to buy, at a most moderate price, and in spite 
of the steamy heat the people were perfectly happy. 

Ali, the young chief, had been again to see Bob Roberts on 
board; but as yet the visit had not been returned, the attack 
upon the residency having put a stop to all leave for the time 
being ; but as the officers were getting less strict, the middy was 
looking forward to the day when he could go ashore. In the 
meanwhile he indulged himself with a little fishing from out the 
chains. 

Doctor Bolter was about the happiest man at the island, for 
now that he had got his sanitary matters put right, and his 
wounded men well, he had ample time for following his favourite 
pursuit of natural history. 

The sailors were in a high state of delight over what they 
called the " Bolter's weakness," and out of gratitude to him for 
many a little bit of doctoring, they took him everything they 



could get hold of that flew, crept, crawled, ran, or swam, 
bothering him almost to death. For Jack could not see the 
necessity for refraining from presenting the doctor with a fire-fly, 
because Tom had taken him a dozen the day before, and Bill two 
dozen the day before that. 

" Wasn*t his flies as good as Bill's, or Tom's ? Well, then, 
mind yer own business, and let him mind his." 

Dick came back from the shore beaming one day, with a 
large black monkey under his arm, held by a stout piece of 
chain, and a dog collar round its loins. 

" Hallo, Dick ! " said one of his messmates. Bill Black, as soon 
as he climbed on board. "Where did you find your little 
brother ? " 

" 'Tain*t no brother o' mine," said Dick seriously ; " he's 
Black, and his name's Joseph, ain't it Joey ? " 

The monkey wrinkled its forehead, and its restless eyes ran 
over one after the other of the group as the sailors gathered 
round, who now began laughing, 

" Well, he's a handsome chap at all events," said Bill, putting 
out his hand to pat the monkey on the head. 

** Don't touch him, lad," growled Dick, by way of caution ; 
"he bites." 

" Get out," said Bill. " Now then, old man, how are you ?" 

" Chick ¡ª chack ¡ª squitter ¡ª witter ¡ª chack," cried the monkey, 
snapping at the sailor's hand and giving it a sharp nip. 

" There, I told you so," said Dick. 

" Hallo, what have you got there, Dick ? " said Bob Roberts, 
coming up, attracted by the laughing. 

"Native gentleman, sir, I bought for four dollars," said Dick, 
seriously. " He's a rar-jah I think, only he hadn't time to get 
his toggery and his kris afore he come aboard." 

" Didn't know the native gentlemen had tails," said Bob, 
smiling. *' Hallo, old chap, how are you? Have a bite?" 

He held out half a biscuit that he happened to have in his 
jacket pocket, and the monkey looked at him curiously, as it 
held out one long thin black hand, flinchingly, as if expecting to 
be teased. 

Twice it essayed to get the biscuit, but always flinched, till 
Bob took a step more in advance, when the animal snatched the 
coveted morsel and began to eat it ravenously. 

" Why, it's half-starved, Dick," said the middy. 

" Yes, sir, he tried to get a piece of Bill Black's finger, but 
Bill cut up rough, and wouldn't let him have it." 

Here there was a fresh burst of laughter, in which Bill, whose 
finger was, after all, only pinched, heartily joined. 




" What are you going to do with him, Dick ? " said Bob 
Roberts. 

" Well, sir," said Dick, with a dry wrinkle or two extra on his 
mahogany physiognomy, " I was going to ask the skipper if he'd 
like to have the gent for a new middy, seeing as you, sir, have 
got to be quite a grown man now." 

" Don't you be cheeky, Dick," said Bob, indignantly. 

" No, sir, I won't," said the old sailor humbly ; '* but on second 
thoughts, which is allers the best, Mr Roberts, sir, I thought as 
the skipper Avouldn't have a uniform as would fit him, so I said 
as I'd take him on to the island, where they'd soon make a sojer 
of him." 

" Now look here, Dick," said Bob, " I take no end of impu- 
dence from you, but let there be some end to it Now then, 
have you done joking?" 

" Yes, sir, but he would look well in a red jacket, wouldn't he?" 

" What are you going to do with the monkey ?" said Bob, 
peremptorily. 

" Well, sir," said Dick, seeing that he had gone far enough, 
** I was up in the campong there, and I bought him of one of 
the niggers as used him to pick cokey-nuts." 

" Oh, yes, of course," said Bob, derisively. 

" He will," said Dick ; "and I bought him because, I says to 
myself, I says. Here's just the sorter thing our doctor would be 
glad to have, and he'd pin a long name to him directly, and say 
as he's a Blackskinnius Monkinius, or something of the kind." 

" And are you going to take it to the doctor ?'' said Bob. 

"Yes, sir, now, directly I've showed you how he can pick 
cokey-nuts. Bill Black, mate, just step down and bring that 
ball o' stout fishing line out o' the locker, will you ? " 

The sailor addressed went down, and returned directly after 
to Dick, who undid the chain, and tied one end of the stout 
fishing cord to the monkey's strap. 

The httle animal had been munching away at the biscuit in a 
quaint semi-human fashion ; but as soon as Dick had fastened 
one end of the cord to the belt, it seemed to know what was 
wanted, for it squatted upon the deck, looking intelligently up in 
the sailor's face. 

" There, ain't he an old un ? " said Dick. " Now then, Yusuf, 
be kraja." 

As the monkey heard the last two words, it sprang up the 
rigging to one of the great blocks, which in his mind represented 
the cocoa-nuts it was to bring down, and seizing one it tried hard 
to twist it off, chattering angrily, till Dick gave the cord a jerk, 




when the animai bounded to another block, and tried hard to 
fetch it off, going so far as to gnaw at the rope that held it, till 
Dick gave the cord another jerk, when it came down. 

" Well done, old man," said Dick, patting the animal, which 
kept close to his leg, as \ilQ^m% that it must find protection of 
him, when Dick took it under his arm. 

"Are you going now, Dick? " said Bob, eagerly. 

"Yes, sir." 

" Wait a moment, and let me see if I can get leave. Why, 
look here ; the doctor's coming aboard." 

True enough, Doctor Bolter was seen in a sampan rowed by 
one of the Malays, and a minute or two later he was on deck. 

" Monkey, eh ? " he said sharply, as he saw the animal. 
Semnopithecus Maurus, I should say. What are you going to 
do with it ? " ^ 

" Dick was going to give it to you, sir," said Bob, smiling. 

" Give it ¡ª to me ? " cried the doctor. " Thanks ; no, my rftan, 
I must draw the line somewhere. Keep it on board. Climb the 
rigging, and that sort of thing. Here, you Roberts, tell the 
captain Fm here." 

Bob went off, and then brought a message to the doctor, who 
went into the cabin. On returning to where Dick was standing, 
that worthy was scratching in a melancholy way at his head. 

" I'm *bout done over this here monkey, sir," he said. " I 
can't go and get the chap to take him back." 

"Keep him, and make a pet oi him, Dick," said the middy, 
holding out a lump of sugar to the subject of their conversation. 

" No, sir, that wouldn't do. The skipper wouldn't stand it ] 
and besides, if the monkey was mine the chaps would lead him 
such a life, teaching him to smoke tobacco and drink grog. 
Will you have him, sir ? " 

" No, Dick," was the reply. " I've no money to spend on 
monkeys." 

" I didn't mean that, sir," said Dick. " I meant it for a present 
for the doctor. Will you have him as a present, and take care 
of him ? " 

" Of course I will, Dick, but I don't like taking it." 

" Why, bless your 'art, Mr Roberts, sir, you'd be doing me a 
kindness by taking of it. You take it, and you can lam him all 
sorts of tricks. Why, look at the pretty crittur, how he takes to 
you ! " 

" Pretty crittur, indeed ! " cried Bob. " You mean how he 
takes to the sugar. Here, come along, old maa Come, rouse 
up." 





To Bob*s surprise the monkey got up, and came close to him, 
while upon Dick making a motion as if to refasten the chain, 
the animal snarled and snapped at him. 

" There now, look at that," cried Dick. " You see you'll have 
to take it, Master Roberts, sir." 

" 1*11 take him for a day or two," said Bob ; " but I expect the 
skipper won't let me keep it." 

" Lor* bless you, sir, he'll let you keep it, see if he don't," said 
the old sailor, and his words proved true. 



CHAPTER XVIII. 



HOW BOB ROBERTS WENT A FISHINa 



Bob Roberts liked having the monkey, but there was a sore 
side to the matter; it was unpleasant to hear that the first 
lieutenant had said that one monkey was enough in the ship, 
and they did not want two. 

" It*s as good as telling me to my face that I'm a monkey," 
said Bob to himself. " Now look here, I shall just go and ask 
him to lend me the dingy to sit in and fish, and old Dick to 
manage it ; and if he says no, I shall just tell him that his remark 
about the monkey was precious ungentlemanly. " 

So Bob went up to the first lieutenant and preferred his 
request, fully anticipating a refusal, but to his surprise the officer 
in question was all that was urbane and pleasant. 

''Fishing from the dingy, eh, Roberts?" he said, smiling. 

" Yes, sir, I thought I might catch a basket if I fished from the 
dingy. I lose so many hauling them up the side into the chains." 

" To be sure ¡ª yes ¡ª of course," said the lieutenant " On one 
condition, Roberts, you can have it" 

"What's that, sir?" 

" Two conditions I should say," replied the lieutenant " The 
boat is to be properly cleaned afterwards, and we are to have a 
dish of fresh fish for the gun-room dinner." 

"Certainly, sir," said Bob, laughing, "if I catch them." 

"You must catch them," said the lieutenant. "Ah, I remem- 
ber the days when I used to be fond of going up the Thames 
fishing, and ¡ª there, be off with you as soon as you like." 

The first lieutenant smiled as he felt that he had been about 
to prose over his old days ; and Bob having obtained leave for 
Dick to be his companion, and to manage the boat if he should 
elect to go up or down the river, instead of lying astern hitched 
on to a ring-bolt, was soon over the side, with plenty of hooks 
and lines and bait 




" This here's a rum sorter game, Mr Roberts, sir," said old 
Dick, as soon as he had fastened the boat's painter to a ring in 
the stem part of the great steamer. "I'm afraid I shan't be 
strong enough for the job." 

Dick glanced at the great muscles in his sun-browned arms, 
with a smile of pride, and then stared at the middy, who turned 
upon him sharply. 

" Now look here, old Dicky," he said, " youVe come here to 
manage the dingy for me, and not to preach and drive away all 
the fishes. So just light your pipe and sit still and hold your 
tongue, and if I find you are not strong enough to do that. 111 
hail the steamer, and ask them to send me down another hand," 

Old Dick chuckled and grinned, and without more ado took 
out and filled a short black pipe, which he lit with a burning 
glass, and then sat contentedly sucking at it, while Bob, who had 
provided himself with a bamboo about ten feet long ¡ª a natural 
fishing-rod in one piece ¡ª fitted on a thin line, baited his hook, 
and began to fish in the deep stream. 

The sun poured down his rays like a shower of burning silver, 
and in spite of the puggaree with which he had provided him- 
self, Bob found the heat almost too much for him, and looked 
enviously at old Dick, who lay back in the bows of the little 
cockle-shell of a boat, with his knees in, his chin pointing up- 
wards, and his arms resting on the sides, literally basking in the 
hot glow. 

The line kept floating down with the stream, and Bob kept 
pulling it up and dropping it in again close to the boat, but there 
was no sharp tug at the bait ; and after half an hour of this work 
a peculiar drowsy feeling began to come over -the middy, the 
bright flashing river ran on, and the palms and attap-thatched 
houses on the shore began to run on too, and all looked misty 
and strange, till the rod was about to fall from his hand, his nod- 
ding head to rest itself upon his chest, and the first lieutenant's 
basket of fish to vanish into the realm of imagination ¡ª when there 
was a tremendous tug, and Bob started into wakefulness, with 
his bamboo bending nearly double, and some large fish making 
the line hiss through the water as it darted here and there. 

The contest was short and furious. Any doubts in the middy's 
mind as to the existence of fish in the river were gone, for he 
had hooked a monster. Now it was rushing up towards the 
surface, now diving down so deeply that the top of Bob^s bamboo 
dipped in the water, and then it was sailing up and down stream, 

anywhere in fact, but never giving the excited lad a chance of 
seeing what it was like. 



* Had I better go in arter him, sir ? " said Dick, grinning. 

"I don't know, Dick. I think ¡ª oh, I say, look at that !" 

That was Bob*s line hanging limply from his straight bamboo, 
for there was a furious rush, a dull twang, and the fish had gone. 

" He was a big 'un, sir," said Dick, refilling his pipe. "Never 
mind. Try another, sir; better luck next time." 

Bob sighed as he fitted on a fresh lead and hook, and was 
soon fishing once more, thoroughly awake now j and to his great 
delight he felt a sharp tug at his line, and striking, found that 
he had hooked a fish of a manageable size, which he soon 
hauled into the boat, and recognized as the ikan satnbilang^ a 
fish frequently sold to them by the Malays, and esteemed quite 
a delicacy. 

" It's a rum-looking one/' said Dick, examining the captive 
as Bob put on a fresh bait. " It's just like one of the eel pouts 
as we boys used to ketch down in the drains in Yorkshire." 

? In the drains, Dick ? " 

" Oh, I don't mean your drains. I mean land drains as take 
the water off a country. We used to catch lots on 'em, thick, 
short, fat fellows, but they hadn't got a lot of long beards like 
these here. What, another already I " 

" Yes, and a big one too," said Bob, excitedly, as he lugged 
out, after a sharp tussle, a handsome fish, with glistening scales, 
and a sharp back fin, bearing some resemblance to a perch. 

" That's the way, sir," said Dick, smoking contentedly in the 
bows. " I like fishing arter all." 

Bob smiled, and went on catching the little barbed fish, rapidly, 
and every now and then a good-sized fellow of a different kind. 
Two or three of the men came and leaned over the side to watch 
them for a few minutes, but the heat seemed too much for theit 
interest to be kept up, and they soon disappeared. 

There was a little audience on the further bank, though, which 
watched Bob's fishing without ceasing, though unseen by the 
young fisherman. This audience consisted of three half-nude 
Malays, l>ing in a sampan hidden amidst the reeds of the river's 
side, and these men seemed greatly interested in all that was 
going on, till, as the evening drew near, Bob, who had captured 
at least sixty fish of various sizes, sat at last completely overcome 
by the heat, and following Dick's example, for that worthy had 
gone off fast asleep, and Bob's bamboo dipped in the water, the 
line unbaited, and offering no temptations to the hungry perch. 
That was the time for which the Malays in the sampan had been 
waiting, and one of them glided over the side like a short thick 
snake, reached the shore, and then making his way up stream 




for some little distance, he softly plunged in, with nothing but a 
kris in his lingouti, or string round the waist used by the natives 
to support their loin cloths, and after swimming boldly out 
for some distance, turned over, and floated with just his nose 
above the water. 

The stream did all he required, for the Malay had calculated 
his distance to a nicety, so that he was borne unseen right to 
the steamer's bows, and then floated along her side, and round 
the stem, where a few strokes brought him into the eddy. 

Dick and the fisherman slept on soundly, so that they did not 
see a brown hand holding a keen kris raised from the water to 
divide the boat's painter, neither did they see that the same 
hand held on by the cut rope, and that the dingy was floating, 
with its strange companion, swiftly down the stream. 

At the end of ^v^ minutes it had been swept round a bend, 
and was out of sight of the steamer. 

So likewise was the sampan from which the Malay had come, 
while one of its occupants steered it into the dingy's course, and 

the other crouched in the forward part with a keen-headed limb- 
ing or spear. 



CHAPTER XIX. 



HOW BOB AND OLD DICK FINISHED THEIR DAY. 

The very motion of the boat lulled its occupants into a deeper 
sleep as they glided on and on down the swift deep river, with 
the tall waving palms and the dark undergrowth ever slipping by 
the travellers, who had embarked now upon a journey whose end 
was death. 

The sampan floated quietly on in attendance, and the Malay, 
whose hand was twisted in the boat's painter, kept beneath the 
bows of the little boat with merely his face above water, the dingy 
now floating down stem foremost, and, having been guided into 
the swiftest part of the stream, always faster and faster towards 
its journey's end. 

Utterly unconscious of danger, and dreaming comfortably of 
being in a land of unlimited do-nothingism, Dick's head lay 
across the gunwale of the boat in terrible proximity to the Malay's 
kris ; while Bob, with his chin on his chest, was far away in his 
old home, in a punt of which he had lost the pole, and it was 
being whirled along faster and faster through the shallows towards 
the mill down at the bend of the river. 

He was very comfortable, and in spite of an uneasy position 
his sleep was very sweet, unconscious as he was of anything 
having the semblance of danger. 

And now the dingy was a good half mile below where the 
steamer was moored. They had passed the last house standing 
on its stout bamboo props, some distance above, and the river 
had curved twice in its bed, so that they had long been concealed 
from any one upon the deck, and still the Malays hesitated, or 

rather waited the time to make their spring. They had no 

special enmity against the occupants of the dingy in particular, 
but they were three of the most daring followers of Rajah Gantang, 
who had assumed the part of fishermen in a sampan, with a 
rough cast net, so as to hang about the neighbourhood of the 
" Startler," and pick up information for their chief, who, so 




far from being, with his two prahus, hors de combat^ was merelv 
lying up in a creek hidden by bamboos and palms, awaiting his 
time to take deadly vengeance upon the destroyers of his stockade 
and miners of his income from the passing boats. 

The opportunity of cutting off a couple of the hated infidels 
who had forced themselves into the peaceful country, where their 
rajah, like many another, had been free to carry on a happy 
lawless existence, cutting throats, selling slaves, committing acts 
of piracy, and indulging in every vile and sensuous custom, was 
one not to be lost. Rajah Gantang wanted no peace, or order, 
or prosperity in the land where he could seize on the wretched 
people, and make them pay him in gold, tin, rice, poultry, fruit, 
or any precious commodity, for the right to pass down the river, 
which he, and a few more of his stamp, looked upon as theirs by 
right 3 so that his three followers were certain to receive praise 
and reward for the proof they might be able to show of the death 
of a couple of the giaours. 

For the Malays are good Mohammedans, and look upon the 
slaying of a Christian as a most meritorious act, but at the same 
time they were too cautious to endanger their plot or their own 
lives by undue haste. 

Hence it came about that the dingy was allowed to drift down 
a good three quarters of a mile before the Malays made any 
attempt, when, as the sampan closed up, and the man in her 
bows raised his limbing to throw, the savage in the water reached 

up one hand to Dick's shoulder, and struck at him with the other. 
The blow from the kris and the hurling of the spear took place 
at one and the same moment, but the touch of the Malay's hand 
upon his shoulder made Dick leap up with such a sudden start 
that the aim was bafifled, and the boat rocked so violently that 
the spear whizzed by Bob Roberts' head, and plunged into the 
water. 

In a moment more Dick had seized the little scull that lay in 
the ding)', and struck the Malay in the river so severe a blow on 
tlie head that the man went under, to rise again a few yards away, 

and then paddle feebly towards the sampan, whose occupants, 
spear xn hand, now made a desperate attack upon those they 
meant to make their prey. 

Bob Roberts never quite knew how it all took place, but he 
had a lively recollection of old Dick standing up in the boat, 
sweeping the little oar round his head, and striking fiercely at 
the men who thrust at him with their spears. 

It was a most unequal encounter, for while the Malays were 
upon comparatively substantial ground, the dingy rocked to and 





fro, and it only needed the hand of the half-drowned Malay to 
catch at the side, in a frantic effort to save his life, to send it 
right over, and Bob and the English sailor into the stream. 

Bob felt that his minutes were numbered, for as he struck out 
for the shore the Malays in the sampan uttered a savage yell, 
and came in pursuit. 

Dick swam to his side on the instant, and the dingy went float- 
ing away with the half-drowned Malay, while now the sampan was 
close after them, and as one of their enemies rowed, the other 
stood in the bows ready to thrust at them with his spear. 

" Swim away, my lad," cried old Dick, hoarsely, "and get ashore, 
I'm only an old 'un, and I'll get a grip of his spiker if I can.'' 

" No, no, Dick, keep with me," panted Bob, who saw in Dick's 
words a determination on the brave old fellow's part to sacrifice 

his life that he might live. 

" No, my lad, it's no use. Swim on," cried Dick, " they're here. 
Tell the skipper I did my dooty like a man." 

As he bravely shouted these words in his excitement, he turned 
to face his enemies, the Malay with the limbing thrusting savagely 
at him. 

But Dick was quick enough to strike the limbing aside, and 
grasp it with both hands, when a struggle for its possession took 

place. 

It was a futile effort, though, upon Dick's part, for the other 

Malay dropped his oar, and picking up another spear, came to 

his comrade's help. 

Bob was paralyzed, and the desire was upon him to shut his 
eyes, and escape seeing the death of the brave old sailor, who 
was giving his life to save his young officer; but in place of 
closing his eyes, the middy felt that he was forced to hold them 
open, and fixed them upon the terrible scene ; and his lips parted 
to utter a cry of warning, when, just as the third Malay was about 
to deliver his thrust, to avert which Dick was powerless, there 
was a sharp whizzing noise through the air, accompanied by a 
loud report, and then another whizzing, and a second report 

Bob turned his head to see the smoke rising from above a 
good-sized naga, or dragon-boat, coming up the stream, and at 
the sight thereof the Malays seized their oars, gave the sampan a 
sharp impulse which brought them within reach of their comrade, 
and after helping him on board, they rowed off with all their 
might, with the dragon-boat coming up fast. 

But the naga had to stop and pick up the middy and Dick 
who had swum, as soon as they were free from enemies, towards 
the dingy, which they reached as the dragon-boat came up. 




" Are you hurt ? " said a voice in English, and a delicate 
brown hand was stretched down from the naga's side to help Bob 
in, where, as he sank down panting, he recognized Ali, the young 
Malay chief. 

" No : only half-drowned. But Dick ¡ª save Dick." 

''I'm all right, Mr Roberts, sir,'* said the old sailor, hoarsely; 
"and the dingy's made fast astern." 

" But are you speared, Dick ? " said the middy. 

" Not as I knows on, sir. I ain't felt nothing at present, but 
I don't say as I ain't got a hole in me somewheres." 

" They'll get away," said Ali, just then, as he stood up with a 
double gun in his hand. " Only small shot," he said, tapping 
the stock. '* I have no bullets," 

As he spoke he clapped the piece to his shoulder and fired 
twice rapidly, as the Malays in the sampan seemed to dive 
through a screen of reeds into some creek beyond. 

The pattering hail of straggling small shot hastened their 
movements, and then Bob proceeded to thank the young chief 
for saving their lives, explaining to him, as far as he knew, how 
it was that they had fallen into such a plight. 

" You must take more care," said Ali, in a low voice. " Our 
people would not harm you ; we are friends, but plenty hate you 
much. But you are safe." 

"Yes," said Bob, who, with all the elasticity of youth, was fast 

recovering himself, " we are quite safe ; and the fish are there too. 
I say, though, old chap, I am so much obliged." 

**Oh, no," said the young Malay, laughing, as he coloured 
through his brown skin ; " it is nothing. I saw a wretch trying 
to do harm, and I fired at him with small duck shot You would 
do the same." 

" Yes, and with bigger shot too if I had a chance," said Bob 
excitedly, as he proceeded to wring all the water he could out 
of his clothes, for now the excitement was over he felt slightly 

chilly. 

Meanwhile the boatmen were rowing steadily up stream, it 
having been seen to be useless to attempt pursuit of the Malays 
in the sampan, and they were rapidly nearing the steamer. 

" *Scuse me, Mr Roberts, sir," said Dick, who was very wet 
and spongy, " but your knife's littler than mine, and if you'd pick 
a few o' these here small shot outer my arms, I'd feel obliged." 

Examination showed that Dick had received quite a dozen 
shots in his arms and chest They had just buried themselves 
beneath the skin, and were easily extracted by means of an open 
knife, after which Dick declared himself to be much better. 




" They've give them Malay chaps a tickling, I know," he cried, 
laughing. " I'm such a thick-skinned 'un, I am, that they only 
just got through. I'll bet an even penny theyVe gone a good 
inch into them niggers." 

The boat now reached the steamer, where, after a warm and 
hearty parting, Bob stepped into the dingy with Dick, and the 
remains of the painter were made fast to the cut fragment hang- 
ing from the ring. 

" Now, if you'll take my advice, Mr Roberts," said the old 
sailor, " you'll step up and get to your berth, and change your 
togs, while I get out the fish and wash the dingy. Being wet 
won't hurt me. What's more is, as I shouldn't say nought about 
the scrimmage; specially as we're not hurt, or you won't get 
leave again." 

" But you are hurt, Dick." 

" Bah ! Don't call that hurt, dear ladL I'm as right as nine- 
pence. You go on, and think about what I've said." 

" I will, Dick," said Bob ; " but take care of the fish." 

" Ay, ay, sir." 

" But I say, Dick." 

" Ay, ay, sir." 

"How did the dingy get loose? You must have gone to 
sleep." 

Dick rubbed his ear. " Well, sir, suttunly I think I must have 

shut one eye ; but how the dingy got loose is more than I can 
say, unless them spiteful niggers cut us adrift But you get 
aboard. We am't been missed." 

But Dick was wrong : they had been missed, and the sentry 
had reported the coming of the naga-boat ; so that as soon as 
Bob had changed his wet clothes for dr}% he had to go to the 
captain's cabin and relate the whole affair. Those on board 
merely supposing that they had gone down the river to fish, it 
was a remark made aloud by the young chief Ali that had started 
a train of ideas in the first lieutenant's head that something was 
wrong. 

"Ah," said Captain Horton, " that was well done of the young 
chief. But it seems to me that we've a lot of ugly scoundrels 
about to deal with, and we must take care, gentlemen, we must 
take care." 

" Yes, Captain Horton," said the first lieutenant, "and we 
will. But are there no fish there for us, Roberts, eh?" he 
continued. 

" Yes, sir, there are," said Bob. " I've caught you a capital 
dish. And very nearlv got turned into ground bait for my 



pains," he said to himself, as he went out to find Dick. " I say, 
Dick," he said, as he met him with the basket of fish, " did you 
think about crocodiles when you were in the water ? " 

" No, sir, never once ; there was too much to think about 
beside." 

" Sq there was, Dick," said Bob. " There's sixpence : go and 
ask them to give you a glass of grog to keep out the cold, but 
first change your things. I'll take the fish." 

" Right, sir," said Dick : but he finished the dingy first, said 
that there'd be a row about the cut painter, and then had his 
glass of grog before he changed his things. 



CHAPTER XX. 



A RUN AFTER A RAJAH. 

Fresh news reached the residency the next day from the sultan, 
who sent word that he had had a very threatening letter from 
Rajah Gantang, declaring that if he did not break at once with 
the English, ruin, destruction, and death would be his fate before 
many months had passed. 

This threatening language had completely upset the sultan, so 
the chief who bore the message said, and he begged that his 
friends and allies, the English, would not let him suffer for his 
fidelity to them ; and when asked what he wished done, the chief 
replied that while Rajah Gantang lived there would be no peace, 
for the rajah's emissaries were in every part of the country, ready 
to carry news, to rise on their lord's behalf, even to assassinate, 
should their orders be to that extent 

The result of all this was a promise that the rajah should be 
found, if possible, though how it was to be done the resident 
could not say. 

Just in the nick of time a good-sized prahu came down the 
river, and on anchoring by the steamer her captain went on 
board, with a pitiful tale of how he had been treated higher up 
the river. 

Believing the rajah's power to be broken, he had been on his 
way down, laden with a good cargo of tin, when he was sum- 
moned by a prahu to stop. This he refused to do, not knowing 
who summoned him, when he was attacked by a party from the 
prahu, two of those on board were killed, and he himself severely 
wounded. 

In proof of his assertions he displayed a spear wound in his 
arm and the stab of a kris in his shoulder. 

Doctor Bolter was sent for, and the master of the prahu had 
his wounds dressed, after which he implored the help of Captain 
Horton to recover the slabs of tin that had been taken from his 
boat, almost ruining him, so severe was the loss. 




The news that one of the prahus was about, up the river, set 
the ship's company on the gut vive once more. The master of 
the prahu, having been robbed of his cargo, had no farther aim, 
and was glad enough to offer his services as guide. When asked 
as to the depth of the river, he declared that the steamer could 
ascend for another twenty miles, so it was decided to make a 
fresh expedition against this disturber of the country ; but the 
whole of the plans were kept a profound secret, lest the time and 
arrangements of the party should again be conveyed to the rajah 
by some one or other of his spies. 

Preparations were quietly made, then, and fifty men from the 
island taken on board the steamer, a few at a time, so as not to 
attract notice ; and when at last the expeditionary party started, 
the occupants of the residency were dining with Major and Mrs 
Sandars at the officers* quarters, where they quietly stayed. 

Steam had been got up before dark, and every preparation 
made, for this time the "Startler'' was Xo go up stream : and at 
last, when night rapidly succeeded day, as it does in the tropics, 
the steamer lay waiting for the rising of the moon, and then her 
screw slowly revolved, and she began to feel her way gently 
against the swift stream ¡ª the people of the campong only seeing 
her at nightfall moored as usual, and not awaking to the fact 
that she had gone until the morning, of course far too late to 
give any warning to the rajah if they were so disposed. 

Patiently and almost Silently the great steamer forced its way 
on for quite a mile, when, there being no fear now of being heard, 
the propeller revolved more rapidly, and the waves made by the 
vessel ran washing the roots oi the trees on either side. 

The moon was just at its full, and seemed as it rose to silver 
the tops of the trees, while it X^it the river in utter darkness, 
though it marked out its course through the dense jungle where 
it seemed to have to cut its way, the great trees growing to the 
water's edge, and overhanging the stream. 

A rapid rate was impossible, on account of the way in which 
the river wound about ; but it kept so wide and deep that there 
was but littie difficulty in its navigation, especially as not a single 
craft of any kind was encountered. 

The master of the prahu pointed out a couple of campongs as 
they passed them, on the banks; but they might have been 
villages of the dead, so silent and unoccupied did they seem, as 
the steamer slowly glided by. 

The moon rose higher and higher, till the river was like a 
broad path of silver, and along this they continued their course 
with a man constantly sounding from the chains, but always to 



show an average depth of about four fathoms, with a thick, soft, 
muddy bottom, upon which the steamer could have met with no 
harm had she taken the ground. 

Silence had been ordered, but as the Jacks and soldiers sat 
beneath the shelter of the bulwarks, or leaned over and watched 
the smooth, silvery river, they conversed in low whispers about 
the expedition, and wondered what luck was to attend them now. 

The plan was evident to all, it was intended to spare the men 
all the risk they could, by getting the steamer within range of 
the prahus, and sinking them with her big guns. If this could 
not be done, through the shallowing of the river, of course the 
boats would have to continue the journey up stream ; but even 
then it was Captain Horton's intention to make use of the boat 
guns as much as possible, and save the men from the dis- 
advantages of boarding vessels that were so carefully protected. 

Higher up the river still, and past the stockade, whose remains 
showed plainly in the soft moonlight Ever and again strange 
noises could be heard from the jungle on either side, as the 
various denizens of the thick tangle of vegetation were alarmed 
by the throb and rush of the steamer, with its strange wave that 
rushed up to the bank, and startled many a nocturnal creature 
from its lurking-place, where it lay watching in search of prey. 

To Bob Roberts* great delight, he found that Tom Long was one 
of the party, for, being declared well enough by the doctor, he 
had put in a sort of claim, as having been of the last force, to a 
right to belong to this. 

This was conceded to him by Major Sandars, and he was 
burning to distinguish himself, if he could obtain a chance. 

Very formidable he seemed, with his sword ground to the 
keenest possible edge, and a revolver in his belt ; though in 
appearance Bob Roberts was scarcely less offensive in the way 
of weapons, as he took pains to show his friend. 

It must have been close upon midnight, when the man in the 
chains, who had continued to take soundings, announced by 
degrees the shallowing of the river. 

For quite twenty miles it had kept to its muddy bottom and 
uniform depth, but during the past half-hour the mud had given 
place to clean- washed gravel, the depth grew less, and at last the 
anchor was let go, for it was not considered safe to proceed 
farther. But it was not until there was less than a foot of water 
beneath the vessel that the order was given ; while even then 
there was so much way upon the steamer that she touched upon 
the gravel lightly before she gradually settled back and swung 

to her cable. 




Quickly and silently four boats were lowered, each containing 
twenty men, and at the word of command the party, under the 
joint command of Lieutenant Johnson and Captain Sraithers, 
pushed off, with the good wishes of all left on board. 

The master cf the prahu was in the foremost boat, and ac- 
cording to his account they were still about a couple of miles 
below where the attack took place, he having been mistaken 
about the steamer*s draught of water. His opinion was that 
both the prahus would be found lying in the Qualla, or mouth 
of a river higher up, and towards this point the boats steadily 
ascended without any tmdue bustle, for the object of the officers 
in charge was to get the men up to the point fresh and ready for 
the task in hand. 

Each boat carried a gun running on slides, and upon the 
proper serv^ice of these guns depended a good deal of the success 
of the expedition. 

They had been rowing steadily on for above half an hour, 
when suddenly from their left a bright line of light cut the black 
darkness of the forest, and was followed by a sharp report. 

For a moment the course of the boats was checked, and one 
was directed to pull in and see who the enemy might be, but 
directly after there was another report a couple of hundred yards 
higher up, and then another, and another, 

" Catch a weasel asleep/' said Lieutenant Johnson, grimly ; 

*' that signal yvill run right up to the prahus. WeVe got to deal 
with some one who has his wits about him." 

So indeed it proved ; for a quarter of an hour later, as they 
still pushed steadily on in line, there came a warning from the 
first boat in the shape of a dull heavy report, and the other boats 
sheered out of the right line, ready to deliver their own fire. 

For plainly enough, though wearing a gray shadowy appear- 
ance, a couple of prahus could be seeu coming swiftly down the 
stream, the long rows of oars on either side beating the water 
with a wonderfully regular stroke, and sending them along at 
quite a startling rate. 

Shot after shot was fired, but with what effect the occupants 
of the boats could not tell, for no heed was paid to the firing, 
save that the prahus seemed to increase their speed, and were 
steered so as to run down tlie enemy that tried to check their 
way. 

It was a matter of little more than a minute from the first 
sighting of the vessels, each of which was five or six times the 
size of the largest boats, and their disappearance round the 
point below, with the water foaming behind them, and the 




English boats in full pursuit- Several shots had been fired, 
for each boat found its opportunity at last, and the firing was 
kept up till the enemy had gone. 

The attempt to overtake them was, however, felt to be hope- 
less, for the prahus went at least two yards to the boats' one ; 
all the officers could hope was, that one of the shots had done 
irreparable mischief, or that, warned by the firing, the steamer 
would sink them as they passed. 

More they could not have done ; for to have remained still 
was to have been sunk, the prahus dashing down at a fearful 
rate, and evidently seeking a collision; so, angry and disap- 
pointed, the pursuit was kept up, every ear being attent for the 
first shot sent at the enemy's boats by the steamer ; but they 
waited in vain, for when at last they came within challenging 
distance, it was to find that no prahus had been seen. 

"Was a strict watch kept, sir?" asked Lieutenant Johnson, 
sharply. 

**Yes, of course," said Captain Horton. "I have been on 
deck with my night-glass ever since yon started, and as soon as 
we heard your guns the men stood ready, lanyard in hand, to fire 
at any vessel that tried to pass." 

" Then they must have gone off through some side stream, and 
come out into the river lower down." 

Captain Horton stamped his foot with rage, but nothing 
cotQd be done until morning ; for if the steamer had set off at 
once, it might have been only to pass the prahus in the darkness 
of some creek. 

Morning then was impatiently awaited, and at the first streak 
of daylight a couple of boats at once set off, to find a side 
branch of the river about a mile above the steamer, and that 
it came out in the main stream once more, half a mile lower 
down. 

They rowed through it to find the current swift and deep, 
though the place resembled a narrow canal. It was a short 
cut off through a bend of the river, and at last, vexed and 
discomfited, the steamer went rapidly back, to learn that the 
prahus had passed the island at daybreak, and had fired a few 
defiant shots from their lelahs as they rapidly went by. 

" Never mind, Tom Long," said Bob, as the former shivered 
in his great coat, for the early morning was damp and cold, 
" only toke time, and we shall put salt on their tails yet." 

"No, sir," said old Dick, shaking his head seriously, "it 
strikes me as you never won't catch them as manages them 
two swift boats. They're too clever for us, they are. But 





only think ot two big bits of Her Majesty's army and navy 
like us being set at nought by this here savage prince." 

" Wait a bit, Dick, and you'll see," said Bob. ** It strikes 
me that I'm the man for settling Mr Rajah Gantang ; and if it 
does come to me to do so, why let him look out." 

"Ay, ay, sir; and his men too. I owe 'em one for that 
boat affair. The cowards ! when a fellow was asleep I " 

**Ah," said Tom Long, discontentedly, '* it's all very well to 
talk, but I want my breakfast ; " and he made haste off to his 
quarters as soon as the steamer's boats had set the military 
part of the expeditionary party ashore. 



CHAPTER XXI. 



HOW ABDULLAH SHOWED THE SMOOTH SIDE OF HIS WAYS. 

It was decided after this to wait patiently for an opportunity 
to capturti Rajah Gantang, or to destroy his prahus ; and mean- 
while life at the residency went on very pleasantly. The men 
at the fort had settled down into an easy-going existence, and 
under the doctor^s guidance a careful examination was made 
of the little island, to clear it of everything in the shape of 
noxious reptile and insect, as far as was possible. 

The example of the Malays was followed by the construction 
of a large bathing-place for the men, which being carefully 
stockaded round with stout bamboos, allowed the free flow of 
the river-water, without the addition of any four-footed creatures, 
in the shape of crocodiles, which were far too common to be 
pleasant, especially where lower down the river the salt water 
mingled with the fresh. In fact, it was dangerous there for a hand 
to be dragged in the water beside a boat, the hideous creatures 
being ready to make a dash at i^, darting through the stream 
as they did with great velocity, by a stroke of their powerful tails. 

The great desire on the part of the men was to go ashore, 
but, in the majority of cases, this was sternly refused. Here 
and there, though, an officer had a shooting-trip, but it was 
thought better to wait until the confidence of the natives had 
been more thoroughly won, and the disaffected party of Rajah 
Gantang dismissed. 

The sultan seemed to have quite forgotten his rejection by 
the ladies, and was most liberal in his presentations of fruit 
and fresh provisions. Every morning a boat came off with a 
load, the fore part being generally crammed with freshly-cut 
flowers ; and later on in the day the resident's boat would be 
sent ashore to return the compliment. Tom Long generally 
had the honour of being the escort, and marching a fatigue 
party up to the sultan's residence with something likely to 
gratify his highness. 





There used to be hearty laughter amongst the ofRcers at the 
quaintness of the presents, and sometimes Tom Long would 
have been glad to evade his duty had he dared ; for, as he con- 
fided to Bob Roberts, ¡ª 

" It is so confoundedly ridiculous, you know. I don't mind 
taking him up a little case of a dozen champagne pints, but 
what do you think I had to take yesterday ? " 

" I don't know/' said Bob, laughing ; " a pound of candles, 
perhaps." 

** No, not yesterday," cried Tom Long; **but I did have to 
take him a packet of composite candles, one day. Only fancy, 
you know, an officer in Her Majesty*s service marching with a 
fatigue party |up to a palm-thatched bam, to take a coffee- 
coloured savage a packet of candles for a present 1 '* 

" Mustn't look a gift horse in the mouth," said Bob, philoso- 
phically. " Present's a present, whether it's a pound of candles 
or a gold chain." 

" Bah 1 It's disgusting," said Tom Long. " It's enough to 
make a man want to part with his commission.'* 

" What '11 you take for it, Tom Long ? I think I should like 
a change. Or come, I'll swap with you. Til turn ensign, and 
you take a go at the sea ? " 

" Don't be absurd." 

" Certainly not ; but come, you didn't tell me what you took 

up yesterday." 

** Is"?," exclaimed Tom Long, flushing with annoyance ; " but 
I will tell you, for it's a scandal and a disgrace to the service, 
and Mr Linton ought to be informed against. I actually, sir, 
had to march those men all along through that jimgle with 
a box." 

" Box of what ? " said Bob ; " dominoes ? " 

" No, sir," cried Tom Long. " A box containing two bottles 
of pickles." 

" Ha, ha, ha, ha I" roared Bob. ** What were they ? Walnuts, 
or onions ? " 

" Neither," said Tom, with great dignity; "one was piccalilli, 
and the other mixed." 

"Well, I dare say he was very glad of them," said Bob. " I 
consider a good bottle of pickles, out in this benighted place, 
one of the greatest luxuries one could have.'' 

" Yes," said Tom Long, who had on a supercilious fit that 
day, " I suppose it would satisfy you." 

** All right, my noble fi-iend," thought Bob to himself; "I'll 
take you down for that some day." 





They strolled out and about the fort together for a time, and 
then out to the upper end of the island ; for though longing to 
go to the lower portion where the residency stood, both of thera 
carefully avoided that part But it so happened that soon after, 
when they directed their steps towards the landing-place, they 
found that the ladies were there, in company with the major's 
wife, talking to a couple of Malays in a sampan laden with fruit 

and flowers. 

The ladies were making liberal purchases of the delicious fruit 
and sweet-scented flowers, when, to the astonishment of Bob 
Roberts, he saw that one of the Malays was the man who had 
made so fierce an attack upon Tom Long over the durian affair. 

Seeing this they both stepped forward, when the Malay recog- 
nized him, said a few hasty words to his companion, and they 
both leaped ashore, the man of the kris salaaming profoundly, 
and remaining half prostrate before the young ensign. 

** DuUah asks pardon of his excellency," said the other man 
in good English. " He thought him an enemy who had insulted 
him, and he drew his kris. He asks now that his excellency will 

forgive him." 

''Yes, yes," said the offending Malay, without raising his 
head or his pleading hands ; and then he repeated what 
seemed to be the whole of his stock of English, " Yes, yes." 

" Dullah asks your excellencies to forgive him, and to let him 
bring fruit and flowers, and to make offerings to the English 
princes he has offended." 

" Oh, I say, Tom Long," said Bob ; " that's a little too strong, 
isn't it ? English princes ! " 

" What are we to do about the fellow ? " said Tom Long ; " tell 
the sentry to turn him off? " 

" No J what's the good ? " said Bob. " Here, leave it to me. 
I'll settle him." 

He glanced merrily at Rachel Linton as he spoke, seeming 
quite at ease in her society now ; while Tom Long appeared to 
be buttoned up in his stiflfest uniform, though he was in undress 
white. 

** Go on, then," said Tom Long in a whisper, " but don't say 
anything stupid ; the ladies can hear every word." 

"All right," said Bob. "Look here, old cockolorum," he 
continued to the Malay who interpreted, ** what has become of 
that Kling who was here before ? " 

" Gone Mirzapore, most excellent prince," said the man. 

" Come, that'll do," said Bob impatiently ; " drop all that 
eastern sugar wordings, my fine fellow, and look here ! " 





The Malay salaamed agaia 

" My friend here isn't an English prince. We are English 
officers. And my friend here says you may tell Mr Abdullah 
there that he does not bear any malice against him for the attack. 
If he asks pardon, that is enough." 

This being interpreted to Abdullah, who remained humbly 
bent, he started up, and catching Tom Long's hands, kissed 
them both, and afterwards Bob's, very much to that young 
gentleman's disgust, though Tom received the salute with a good 
deal of dignity, posing himself to look to the best advantage in 
the presence of the ladies. 

" There, that'll do now," said Bob. **It's all right, only tell 
Mr Abdullah not to be so handy with his kris again, and that I 
¡ª Mr Roberts, of Her Majesty's ship ' Startler* ¡ª think he ought 
to present us with some durians." 

This was duly interpreted to the Malay, who drew back, gazing 
keenly from the ensign to the middy, and back again, his dark 
eyes seeming to flash, as he said something in his native tongue 
to the interpreter. 

" Duilah say you throw durian again in his face, and it make 
him mad." 

" No, no, old fellow, nothing of the kind," said Bob, laying his 
hand on Abdullah's shoulder. " That's all past" 

The Malay judged his meaning from his looks, and not from 
his words. Then smiling, he leaped back into the boat, and 
returned laden with the iinest fruit he had, which he offered to 
the young officers with no little grace and dignity, smiling 
pleasantly the while, but manifesting nothing little or servile. 

The ladies looked on so wonderingly, that Bob had to leave 
the durians and explain, returning directly after, though, to the 
Malays, and obtaining a splendid bunch of the sweet flowers of 
the waringhan tree, which he carried back to the ladies, who 
smiled, thanked him, and took their departure. 

" I never saw such a fellow as you are, Roberts," said the 
ensign, sulkily, as Bob returned ; " you always seem to know 
what to say or do when ladies are present. I don't ! " 

" Native modesty, ability, and natural gifts, my dear fellow," 
said Bob ; ** and I'm precious glad they are gone, for I want to 
have a go at those durians." 

Abdullah had already opened one, which he presented to Bob, 
who took it and made a terrible onslaught ; and then, with a 
doubting look in his dark eyes, the Malay opened a second 
durian, hesitated, and then evidently mastering his pride, offered 
it to Tom Long. 




The latter drew back, shaking his head, and the Malay looked 
hurt and annoyed. 

"Tell him I don't like durians, Bob Roberts," said Tom, 
nervously, " or we shall have another row." 

** Here, hi ! old cockolorum ! " cried Bob, with his mouth full 
as he turned to the Malay, " tell Mr Abdullah there, that his 
durians are 'licious ¡ª luscious ¡ª 'licious, but Mr Long likes man- 
gosteens better." 

This was interpreted, and Abdullah's doubting look changed 
as he hurried back to the boat, and returned with a basket full 
of delicious fruit, which he offered Tom Long with a bow ; and 
then, finding they were accepted, he stood smiling with his head 
bent, while Bob went on devouring durian at a terrible rate. 

" I say, Tom Long," said Bob, making a very unpleasant noise 
with his mouth. 

"What is it?" said the ensign, who was deep in the mys- 
terious flavour of the delicious mangosteen. 

" I never believed in old Darwin, and his development, and 

evolution, and that sort of thing, till now." 

" Why now ? " said Tom Long. 

"Because I feel such a pig," said Bob, attacking another 
durian. " Look here, old man, if you'll put me up in a durian 
tree, I don't want anything else thaiikey ; you may have all the 
honour and glory. Oh ! 1 say, this one's lovely ! it's just like 
nectar made with custard, with an old shoe put in for flavour, 
and all stirred up with a paint brush. How are you getting on?" 

" Bravely," said Tom Long. 

The two young officers went on eating till they caught sight of 
the doctor in the distance ¡ª a sight 30 suggestive of making 
themselves ill that they gave up with a sigh or two, and went 
away, Tom Long offering to pay liberally for the fruit, notwith- 
standing a hint from his companion that he should be content to 
accept it as a present 

Both the Malays drew back very proudly, but Bob Roberts 
healed the breach in etiquette by quietly taking out his case, and 
offering a cigar to each of the Malays in turn. 

These were taken with a smile, and accompanied by a 
thoroughly friendly look at parting. 

" They're rum fellows, those Malays," said Bob, " and want a 
lot of managing. They are gentlemen at heart, and savages at 
body. That's my opinion of them." 

" And my opinion is," said Tom Long, " that they are a pre- 
cious unpleasant treacherous set of people, that it is downright 
cruelty to expect a gentleman to live amongst" 




Up to this point no Malay, not even a servant, had been ad- 
mitted to live upon the island, though the want of natives for 
assistance and to supply food had been keenly felt. 

During the last few days, however, the resident had begun to 
relax this stringent rule, and a fisherman had been permitted to 
set up his hut and keep his boats at the upper end of the island, 
with the consequence that in place of a very intermittent supply, 
there was plenty of fish at the mess table. 

Now as soon as the young ofllicers had gone, Abdullah and his 
Malay companion sought audience, basket in hand, of the 
resident, who, after talking to them for a time, walked down to 
the landing-place, saw their ample supply of fruit and flowers, and 
ended by granting them a site by the water's edge, where they 
might set up their hut, and secure their boat, the understanding 
upon which the grant was made being that an ample supply was 
to be kept up for the use of the officers and men. 

" Capital fellow, Linton," said the doctor, " Nothing like 
fruit in moderation to keep men in health. But isn't it risky to 
have these fellows on the isle ? " 

" I have thought of that," said Mr Linton; " but by bciog too 
exclusive we shall defeat our own ends. We must receive the 
principal part of the Malays in a friendly way, and it is only by a 
more open policy that this can be done. If we admit any wolves 
amongst the sheep they must meet with the wolves' fate. So far, 
I think I have done well." 

"Well, yes, perhaps you are right," said the doctor. But both 
gentlemen would have altered their opinions exceedingly if they 

had seen a long low boat, painted of a dark gray, and manned by six 
men, float gently down stream that night, and, unseen by the sen- 
tries, stopbeside the sampan of Abdullah and his Malay companion. 

Here there was a short consultation, Abdullah crawling over 
the gunwale into the long low boat, where he lay down, side by 
side with the man who steered. 

Their conversation was long, and the others in the boat lay 
down while it was going on, so that had the boat been seen by 
an unusually watchful sentry it would have appeared to be empty, 
and moored to a bamboo stake thrust into the mud. 

But the dark silent boat was not seen by the nearest sentry, 
either when it floated down, or when it was cautiously turned and 
paddled up stream once more, till, out of hearing, the oars went 
down with a noisy splash, and the long narrow vessel literally 
dashed through the river. 

The reason it was not seen was simple enough. 

Private Sim was on duty that night, and he had been once 
more fast asleep. 



CHAPTER XXIL 

THE CREW OF THE CAPTAIN's GIG. 

There was a good deal of the schoolboy left in the young repre- 
sentatives of Her Majesty's two services ; not that this is strange, 
for a good deal of his schoolboyhood clings to a man even in 
middle life. Bob Roberts had a tiff with Long, made vow after 
vow that he would never speak to the ensign again ; declaring 
him to be a consequential cocky scarlet pouter pigeon, with as 
much strut in him as a bantam. 

On the other hand, Tom Long declared the middy to be a 
niost offensive little rascal, with impertinence enough in him for 
a dozen men. He was determined to cut him dead ¡ª that he 
was, and he would have no more to do with him. 

Result the very next day : 

Bob Roberts hurried down into the captain's gig, sitting there 

very eager and excited ; for they were going to the island, and 
he had a plan in his head. 

The captain came to the side and down the ladder, the gig 
was pushed off, the crew's oars fell into the bright river with one 
splash, and as they did so Bob Roberts forgot all the respect due 
to his commander, by suddenly catching him by the arm. 

" Look, look, sir. See that ? " 

"No, Mr Roberts," said the captain rather sternly, "but I 
felt it." 

" I beg your pardon, sir," said Bob, saluting. " It was a great 
crocodile, and the splash of the men's oars frightened it." 

" Oh, indeed," said the captain dryly ; and he took out a 
despatch and began to read. 

Dick, who was coxswain of the gig, screwed up his mahogany 
visage, and Bob pretended to look terribly alarmed, and so the 
boat was rowed over the sparkling waters to the bamboo land- 
ing stage, when the captain got out, and Bob was left in charge 

of the boat. 





Bob jumped up as soon as the captain had entered the resi- 
dency, and began to fidget about. 

'*I wish I knew how long the skipper would be, Dick," he 
said. "I want to go ashore. No, I don't," he said, correcting 
himself. " I got in a row once for that. But look here, Dick, 
suppose you go and find Mr Long." 

"All right, sir," said Dick, with alacrity. " 1*11 go." 

" Oh no, you don't," cried Bob, recollecting himself again ; 
" that fly won't take the same cock salmon twice, Master Dick." 

" I don't understand you, sir," growled Dick, rubbing his ear. 

**0h no, I suppose not," said Bob. "You didn't go ashore 
for me once with a message, and then get up to the canteen and 
forgot to come back again, did you?" 

" Lor', now you mention it, sir, so I did," said DicL " It was 
that day as I met Sergeant Lund, and he says, * Why, Dick, old 
man,' he says, ' you look as dry and thirsty,' he says, * as a fish. 
Come and have some lime juice and water;' and I did, and 
talking together about the ' Startler ' and her guns, and earth- 
works, made me quite forget how the time went by. But lor*, 
Mr Roberts, sir, what a memory you have to be sure." 

** Yes," said Bob, sticking his cap on one side, and cocking 
his eye knowingly at the old salt; "a fellow just needs to have 
a good memory. I say, Dick, that lime juice and water was 
precious strong that day, wasn't it?" 

" No, sir, not a bit," said the old sailor, stolidly. " But now I 
come to recollect, the sun did make me awful giddy." 

"All right, Dick," said the midshipman; "run the boat a 
little more under the shade of those trees, and we'll keep you 
out of the sun to-day." 

Old Dick growled, and picked up the boat-hook to draw the 
gig further along to where there was a dense cool shade. Then 
as he laid the boat-hook down and retook his place, he began 
to chuckle. 

" You're a sharp 'un, Mr Roberts, that you are," he said, 
laughing. ** Well, I'll own it ; that was a bit of a slip that day. 
Send one o' the tothcrs ashore then with your message." 

"No, I'll be blessed if I do," said Bob. "I'll never give way 
an inch again about a boat's crew ; I haven't forgotten that little 
game at Aden, where I sent one chap ashore to get me some 
cold water to drink, and he didn't come back; and another 
volunteered to go and fetch him, and I let him go, and he didn't 
come back ; and then I had to send another, and another ¡ª eight 
of 'em, every one vowing he'd bring the rest back ; and at last I 
sat alone in that boat without a crew, and the first lieutenant 





came, and a nice wigging I had. No, Master Dick, IVe been 
at sea too long now to be tricked by those games, and I mean 
to have the strictest discipline whenever I'm in command." 

The men in the forepart of the boat overheard all this, and 
began to look very gloomy. 

" Couldn't you let one on us go and get a bucket o' water, 
sir ? it's precious hot," said the man who pulled bow oar, and he 
touched his forelock. 

** No, Mr Joe Cripps, I couldn't," said Bob, sharply ; " but I 
tell you what you all may do ; put your heads over the side, and 
drink as much of this clear river water as you like. We're not 
at sea, man." 

" More we aren't, sir," said the man, glancing round at his 
companions, who laughed. 

" Look here," said Bob, " Dick will keep an eye on the shore, 
and I'll tell the sentry there to pass the word. You may all 
smoke if you like, only look smart, and put away your pipes if 
the captain's coming." 

" Thanky, sir," chorussed the men, and pipes were quickly 
produced by all save Dick, who helped himself to a fresh quid. 

" I say, sentry," cried Bob, " pass the word on there ¡ª I want 
to see Mr Long." 

" Yes, sir," was the reply, and the white-coated sentry walked 
to the end of his beat, and made a sign to the next sentry, who 
came to the end of his beat, heard what was wanted, and passed 
the message on, so that at the end of a few minutes Ensign 
Long came slowly down to the landing-place, with an umbrella 

held up to keep off the sun, and found the boat's crew smok- 
ing, and Bob Roberts, with his cap tilted over his eyes, sitting in 
the bottom of the gig, with his legs over the side, so exactly 
arranged that the water rippled round the soles of his shoes, and 
pleasantly cooled his feet. 

"Did you wish to speak to me, Mr Roberts?" said Long, 
stiffly. 

** Hallo, Tom, old man ! Here, jump in ! IVe got some news 
for you." 

Ensign Long looked very stand-offish ; but the eager face of 
Bob, the only one about his own age of whom he could make a 
companion, was too much for him \ and as Bob got up and made 
a place for him, Mr Ensign Long unbent a little, and really as 
well as metaphorically undid a button or two, and got into the 
captain's gig, 

" I say, look here, Tom, old man, what's the use ot us two 
always falling out, when we could be so jolly together?" said Bob. 





" I don't quite understand you," said Tom Long, stiffly. " I 
am not of a quarrelsome disposition, as any of my brother officers 
will tell you." 

" Then it must be me then who is such a quarrelsome beast, 

and there's my hand, and we won't fall out any more." 

Ensign Long undid a few more buttons, for it was very hot, 
and condescended to shake hands. 

" I'm sure it's not my wish to be bad friends," said Ensign 
Long. " I think the members of the two services ought to be 
like brothers." 

" So do I," said Bob. " I say, sentry, keep a sharp look-out 
for the captain, and I'll stand a glass for you at the canteen next 
time I come ashore." 

" Yes, sir," said the sentry. " But p'raps, sir, I mayn't see you 
next time you come ashore." 

"There's an artful one for you, Tom," cried Bob, getting his 
hot wet hand into his pocket with no little difficulty, and throw- 
ing the man a fourpenny piece. "Now, look here, Tom," he 
continued, as the man cleverly caught the tiny piece and thrust 
it in his pocket, Ensign Long carefully closing his ear and look- 
ing in the other direction the while, **you and I might have no 
end of games if we could only keep friends." 

" Well, let s keep friends, then," said Tom Long. 

" Agreed," said Bob, " and the first one of us who turns dis- 
agreeable, the other is to punch his head." 

" No, I can't agree to that," said Tom, thoughtfully, " because 
we could not settle who was in the wrong." 

" Then we'd punch one anotlaer's heads," said Bob : " but never 
mind about that Look here." 

Ensign Long undid a few more buttons, of which he had a 
great many down the front of his mess waistcoat, just like a row 
of gold-coated pills, and then he proceeded to look there, that is 
to say mentally, at what his companion had to say, 

" Do you know that young Malay chap, who came on board 
yesterday with his father, the Bangthegong, or Tumongong, or 
whatever he calls himself ? " 

" Yes, I saw him ; he came afterwards to the fort, and was 
shown round." 

" Didn't you speak to him ? " 

" Not I. Don't care much for these niggers." 
"Oh ! but he's no end of a good chap," said Bob. " He can't 
help being browa I took him down to the gunroom, and we 
smoked and talked ; he can speak English like fun." 
" Indeed ! " 





" Yes, indeed ; and I tell you what it is, he's worth knowing. 
He's quite a prince, and as jolly as can be. He says there^s out- 
and-out shooting in the jungle, and if we'll go ashore and have a 
turn with him, he'll take us where we can have a regular good day." 

"What does the young savage shoot with," said Long, dis- 
dainfully, " a bow and arrow ? " 

" Bow and arrow be hanged I Why, don't I tell you he is quite 
a prince? and he's regularly English in his ways. Some one 
made him a present of a Purdey breechloader, and he uses Eley 
cartridges. What do you think of that ? " 

" Very disgusting that men should take to such adjuncts to 
civilization before they leave oiF wearing those savage plaid 
petticoats." 

** I believe they are a tribe of Scotsmen, who came out here 
in the year one and turned brown," said Bob, laughing, " Those 
sarongs are just like kilts," 

" Yes," said Tom Long, "and the krises are just the same as 
dirks." 

" Well, bother all that ! " cried Bob. " I told him we'd both 
come to-morrow, and bring guns, and he's going to get some 
prog, and half-a-dozen beaters ; and we'll have a jolly day," 

" But," said Tom Long, dropping his official ways, and speak- 
ing excitedly, " he didn't ask me ! " 

*'He said he'd be delighted to know you. He likes English- 
men." 

** But we can't get leave." 

" Can't we ? " cried Bob, " I can. If the skipper says no, I 
think I can work him round ; and I'm sure you can manage it. 
Look here, you ask Doctor Bolter to manage it for you, and 
say we'll bring him all the specimens we can shoot." 

"By Jove, Bob, what a jolly idea!" cried Tom Long ¡ª an officer 
no longer, but a regular boy again. " We'll get leave to-night, 
and start early." 

? That we will" 

" But are you sure that young Tumongong would be glad to 

see me too ? " 

" Ali Latee, his name is, and I've got to call him Al already, 

and he called me Bob, Glad ? of course he will I said you'd 

come too ; and I told such a whopper, Tom." 
? What did you say ? " 
" I told him you were my dearest friend" 
" Well, so I am, Bob ; only you will get so restive," 
" Yes, I always was a restive little beggar," said Bob. " To- 

monow morning then, and¡ª " 




*' Captain coming, sir." 

" Landing-place at daybreak, Tom. Cut," whispered Bob ; 
and the young ensign rose and leaped ashore, buttoning up his 
little golden-pill buttons, as Captain Horton came down the 
path, and answered his salute with a friendly nod. 

The next minute the water was flashing like fiery silver 
from the blades of the oars, and the gig returned to the steamer's 
side, where Bob began to prepare for the next day's trip, taking 
it for granted that he could get leave. 



CHAPTER XXII I. 



HOW BOB ROBERTS AND TOM LONG ASKED FOR LEAVE. 

Very great things come from very small germs, and for a long 
time afterwards Captain Horton bitterly regretted that he had 

been in so easy and amiable a frame of mind that he had 
accorded Bob Roberts the holiday he desired. 

He had dined well, and was in that happy state of content 
that comes upon a man who is not old, and whose digestion 
is good. 

It was a glorious night, and the captain was seated on deck at 
a little table bearing a shaded lamp and his cup of coffee, when 
Bob respectfully approached, cap in hand. 

" If you please, sir ¡ª " 

" Who's that ? Oh I Roberts. Here ; go down to the cabin, 
Roberts, and fetch my cap, I don't want to catch cold." 

"Yes, sir." 

' Hi ! stop, my boy 1 Here ; lend me your cap till you come 
back.'' 

It was a very undignified proceeding, but Captain Horton 
had a horror of colds in the head, and would far rather have 
been undignified than catch one. So he took the little, natty 
gold-laced cap held out to him, and stuck it upon his pate. 

" Bless my soul I" he exclaimed. " What a stupid little head 
you've got, Roberts." 

" Yes, sir," said tlie lad sharply, " very ; but it will grow, sir." 

" Then I hope it won't grow more stupid, boy. There, be 
quick ! " 

Bob ran down to the captain's cabin, and obtained the required 
piece of headgear, with which he returned to the quarter-deck, 
where the captain was sipping his coffee, apparently oblivious 
of the fact that he had sent for his cap. 

" Eh ? " 

" Your cap, sir." 

" Oh, ah I to be sure ! yes, of course. Thank you, Roberts. 




Exchange is no robbery, as we used to say at Harrow. You 
needn't wait." 

" Thank you, sir ; no, sir, but ¡ª " 

"Now what is it, Roberts? You know I don't like to be 
troubled after dinner." 

"Yes, sir; but I beg your pardon, sir. Might I have leave 
to go ashore to-morrow ? " 

" Yes ¡ª no. What, in the name of goodness, do you mean, 
Mr Roberts, by coming and asking me? Go to the first 
lieutenant," 

" Please, sir, I'm very sorry to trouble you, but he's dining at 
the residency." 

" Then why didn't you wait till he came back ? " 

" Because, sir, please sir, Mr Wilson's always cross when he 
has been out to dine. He's not like you, sir." 

The captain started up in his chair, and gazed full in the 
lad's face. 

" You're a nice boy, Roberts," he said ; " but don't you try any 
of that impudent flattery on with me again." 

" No, sir. I beg pardon, sir, but may I go ? " 

" Wait till the first lieutenant comes back, sir, and ask him." 

" But please, sir, it's important." 

"What is?" 

" That I should have leave to-morrow, sir." 

" Where are you going, then? " 

" Please, sir, I was going shooting." 

"Ohl" said his captain, laughing; "then that's what you 
call important, eh ? Well, I don't know what to say. Have there 
been any complaints against you lately ? " 

" Two or three, sir," said Bob ; " but I have been trying very 
hard, sir," he added earnestly, " to do my duty." 

"Humph!" said the captain. "Well, I was a youngster 

myself once. I suppose you'd be very much disappointed if 1 
said no ? " 

" Yes, sir ; very much." 

" Humph ! Who's going with you ? " 

" Ensign Long, sir, if he can get leave." 

" Well, Roberts, you can go ; but be careful with your guns. 
And look here, don't do anything to annoy the Malays, Don't 
go near their religious places, or get trespassing." 

** No, sir, I'll be very careful." 

" Any one else going ? " 

Ali Latee, sir, the Tumongong's son," 

"Very well. Be off!" 




" Yes, sir, thank you, sir," cried Bob joyously, and he hurried 

away. 

Ensign Long felt perfectly sure that if he went direct to the 
major, and asked for leave to go ashore shooting, it would be 
refused. He would have gone and asked Captain Smithers to 
intercede for him, but the captain was always short, and ready 
to be annoyed at nearly everything said ; so he concluded that 
Bob Roberts' idea was the best, and he went straight to Doctor 
Bolter, who was in his room, in his shirt and trousers, both his 
sleeves rolled up, busily pinning out some gorgeous butterflies 
that he had secured. 

** Ah, Long ! " he said, as the youth entered ; " how are you ? 
Just hand me that sheet of cork." 

" Quite well, sir, thank you." 

" Oh I are you ? I'll look at your tongue directly. Hand me 
one of those long, thin pins." 

The pin was handed. 

" Now put a finger on that piece of card Gently, my dear 
boy, gently ; the down upon these things is so exquisitely fine 
that the least touch spoils them. Look at that Atlas moth by 
your elbow. Isn't it lovely ? " 

" Magnificent, sir," said Long, taking up a shallow tray, and 
really admiring the monstrous moth pinned out therein, 

" Ah, my lad ! I wish I could see you turning a little atten- 
tion to natural history, now we are in this perfect paradise for a 
collector. How much better for you than lounging about all day 
under the trees. Now then, put out your tongue." 

" But I'm quite well. Doctor Bolter." 

" Put ¡ª out ¡ª ^your ¡ª tongue ¡ª sir. Confound it all, sir, I've no 
time to waste \ " 

As he spoke he took up the lamp, and held it close to Tom 
Long's face, so that the light might fall upon the protruded organ. 

" Hah I " ejaculated Doctor Bolter, resuming his seat. 

" But I really am quite well, sir," remonstrated Tom Long. 

" Don't tell me, sir, that you are quite well Do you think I 
don't know when a man's well, and when he is not ? You are 
just a little wee bit feverish." 

He felt the youth's pulse, and nodded his head sagely. 

" Too much idleness and good living is what is the matter with 
you, sir. Why don't you collect ? " 

" How can I, sir," said Tom, " when I'm shut up in this island?" 

" Go ashore. Here, I'll give you some collecting boxes, and 
lend you a vasculum acd * tiet. Go and get me some butter- 
flies." 





"Well, sir, if it's all the same to you," said Tom, taking ad- 
vantage of the wind blowing in the right direction, ** shooting's 
more in my way. Suppose I shot you some birds ? " 

" Better still," said the doctor, enthusiastically. " Nothing I 
should like better, I want a few trogons, and the blue-billed 
gaper. Then you might get me the green chatterer, and any new 
birds you could see." 

''Yqs, sir." 

" And look here, Long ; the woods here are the chosen resort 
of the great argus pheasant. I don't suppose you would be able 
to come across one, but if you do ¡ª " 

" Down him," said Tom Long. 

"Exactly," said the doctor, "There, my lad, I won't give 
you any medicine, but prescribe a little short exercise," 

" Thank you, sir," said Tom, trying hard to restrain his eager- 
ness. " Might I have a run to-morrow ? I have felt very languid 
to-day." 

"To be sure. I'll see the major and get leave of absence for 
you. Be careful, though. Don't overheat yourselfi and mind and 
not get into any scrape with the Malays." 

" I'll mind, sir," said Tom. 

" That's riglit. Be very careful not to spoil the plumage of the 
birds. You can make a Malay boy carry them tied by the beaks 
to a stick. Stop a minute ; as you are here, you may as well cut 
up these cards for me in thin strips. I'll go and ask the major 
the while." 

Tom set to work at the cards with a pair of scissors, and the 
doctor donned his undress coat, went out, and returned with the 
requisite permission. 

'* By the way, look here, Long ; if you'll promise to be very 
careful, I'll lend you my double gun." 

" I'll take the greatest care of it, sir," was the reply. 

" Good 1 There it is ; so now be off; and to-morrow night I 
shall expect a nice lot of specimens to skin." 

So Tom Long went off with the gun, and the doctor helped to 
turn the residency into an abode where danger usurped the 
place of safety, and peace was to be succeeded by the horrors 
of war. 



CHAPTER XXIV. 

A JAUNT IN THE JUNGLE, WITH AN AWKWARD END. 

Tom Long rather overslept himself, but it was pretty early when 
he started from his quarters, to encounter Captain Smithers soon 
after, looking anxious and annoyed. He nodded shortly, and 
the young ensign went on through what was (juite a wilderness 
of beauty, to meet, next, Rachel Linton and Mary Sinclair, who 
had been flower-gathering, and who stopped for a few minutes' 
conversation with him, the former nearly spoiling the expedition 
by turning the foolish youth's thoughts in quite a contrary direc- 
tion from collecting or shooting. 

But Rachel Linton quietly wished him success, and Tom went 
off, telling himself that it would look foolish if he did not go. 

He had not far to go to the landing-place now ; but in the 
little space close by the resident's garden he encountered Private 
Gray, who saluted him, and sent Tom on thinking that he wished 
he was as old, and good-looking, and as manly, as the young 
soldier he had just passed. And then he felt very miserable and 
dejected, and wished he was anything but what he was, until he 
saw Bob Roberts, sitting in the " Startler's " dingy by the land- 
ing-place, and forgot all about everything but the shooting ex- 
cursion. 

" Come along I You are a chap," shouted Bob. " I've been 
waiting over half an hour." 

" Met the ladies," said Tom, ** and was obliged to speak," 

" Oh, you met the ladies, did you ? " said Bob, looking at him 
suspiciously. " Weil, never mind ; jump aboard. Got plenty 
of cartridges ? " 

" Yes, heaps ; and some food too." 

" So have I," cried Bob. " Now, then, pull away, Dick. Set 
us ashore under those trees. Hooray, Tom ; look ! There's 
young Banggong there, waiting with a couple of niggers." 

Dick pulled steadily at the sculls, and the little dingy breasted 
the water like a duck, soon crossing the intervening space, when 





the two lads landed with their ammunition and stores, shook 
hands with the handsome dark young chief who confronted 
them, and at once started off for the jungle, while Dick stood 
refilling his right cheek with tobacco, before rowing the dingy 
back to the steamer. 

" Ah ! " he said, as he once more took the sculls, " they never 
asked me to go, too. Now you see if by the time they get back 
to-night they hain't been in about as pretty a bit o' mischief as 
was ever hatched." 

Old Dick had no intention of setting himself up as a prophet 
of evil, for his remark was made more out of spite than anything 
else, it having struck the old fellow that a good idle ashore would 
be very pleasant, especially with plenty to eat and drink, and a 
fair supply of tobacco. 

" It wouldn't be very hard work to carry all the game they 
shoot," he said, chuckling; "and one might get a good nap 
under a shady tree." 

But Dick's hopes were blighted, and instead of shade under 
trees, he had to row back to where the " Startler " was blistering 
in th^ hot sunshine, and take his part in the regular duties of 
the day. 

Meanwhile the two lads with their companion were striding 
along beneath the shade of the trees, with the naval and military 
services of her most gracious Majesty completely forgotten, and 
their elastic young minds bent entirely upon the expedition. 
They looked flushed and eager, and the Tumongong's son, Ali, 
was just as full of excitement. 

The latter was about the age of the young English officers, and 
their coming was to him delightful. For his father was wise 
enough to foresee the course of events ¡ª how the old barbarism 
of the Malay was dying out, to give place to the busy civilization 
taught by the white men from the west ; and he felt sure that 
the most civilized and advanced of the young chieftains would 
occupy the best positions in the future. Hence then he had 
sent his son for long spells at a time to Singapore and Penang, 
to mingle with the English, and pick up such education as he 
could obtain. 

Ali being a clever boy, had exceeded his father's expectations, 
having arrived at the age of eighteen, with a good knowledge of 
English, in which tongue he could write and converse ; and in 
addition he had imbibed a sufficiency of our manners and cus- 
toms to make him pass muster very well amongst a party of 
gentlemen. 

Bob Roberts and he were sworn friends directly, for there was 





something in their dispositions which made them assimilate, Ali 
being full of life and fun, which, since his return to Parang, he 
had been obliged to suppress, and take up the stiff stately 
formality of the Malays about him, of whom many of the chiefs 
looked unfavourably at the youth who had so quickly taken up 
and made friends with the people they looked upon as so many 
usurpers. 

No sooner were the three lads out ofsightoftheattap-thatched 
roofs and the island, the fort and steamer, than all formality was 
thrown to the winds, and they tramped on chattering away like 
children, Tom, however, walked on rather stiffly for a few 
minutes, but the sight of a good broad rivulet was too much for 
him ; drill, discipline, the strict deportment of an officer and a 
gentleman, whose scarlet and undress uniforms had cost a great 
deal of money, and in which, to tell the truth, he had been very 
fond of attiring himself when alone with his looking-glass, all were 
fbrgotten, and the bottled-up schoolboy vitality that was in his 
breast seethed up like so much old-fashioned ginger beer. 

" Follow my leader ! " he cried, handing his gun to one of the 

Malays, whose eyes rolled with pleasure as he saw sentimental 

Tom Long take a sharp run, leap well from the near bank, and 

land on the other side of the stream, but he had to catch at some 

bamboos to save himself from falling back into the water. 

" With a cheerly hi ho," shouted Bob Roberts, dropping his 
gun on a bush. "Look out, soldier." 

The words were on his lips as he ran, and in his leap alighted 
on the other side in so bad a place that he had to catch at Tom 
to save himself from falling, and for a it'iv seconds there was a 
sharp scuffle amongst the bamboos before they were safe. 

" Look out, Ali," shouted Bob, on seeing their companion 
coming; "it's bad landing." 

But Ali was already in full career ; as light and active of foot 
as a deer, he made a quick rush and a leap, and landed in safety 
quite a yard beyond the young officers. 

" Well done ! hooray ! " cried Bob, who had not the slightest 
objection to seeing himself surpassed ; while the two Malays in 
charge of the guns and impediments on the other side stared at 
each other in astonishment, and in a whisper asked if the young 
chief had gone out of his mind. 

"Now then, Sambo ¡ª Jumbo," cried Bob, "over with those 
guns. Come along, they are not loaded." 

The two Malays stared, and Ali said a few words to them in 
their native tongue, when they immediately gathered up the 
g&ns, and, being bare-legged, waded across the stream, which 
was about four yards wide. 




The last man came over with a rush as he neared the bank, 
for suddenly from a reed-bed above them there was a wallow 
and a flounder with a tremendous disturbance in the water, as 
something shot down towards the main stream. 

" A crocodile," said Ali, as the young Englishmen directed at 
him a wondering gaze. 

" Crocodile ! " cried Bob, snatching his gun from the atten- 
dant, and hastily thrusting in cartridges, after which he ran 
along the stream till checked by the tangled growth. 

*' No good," said Ali, laughing at his eagerness. "Gone.** 

The reptile was gone sure enough, and it was doubtful which 
was the more frightened, it or the Malays; so they went on 
along a narrow jungle path, that was walled up on either side by 
dense vegetation, which seemed to have been kept hacked back 
by the heavy knives of the working Malays. To have gone oflp 
to right or left would have been impossible, so tangled and 
matted with canes and creepers was the undergrowth, Bob wak- 
ing up to the fact that here was the natural home of the cane so 
familiar to schoolboys ; the unfamiliar part being, that keeping 
to nearly the same diameter, these canes ran one, two, and even 
three hundred feet in length, creeping, climbing, undulating, now 
running up the side of some pillar-like tree to a convenient 
branch, over which it passed to hang down again in a loop till 
it reached some other tree, in and out of whose branches it 
would wind. 

As they went on farther they were in a soft green twilight with 
at rare intervals the sharp bright rays of the sun, like golden 
arrows, darting through the dense shade, and a patch of luxuriantly 
growing pitcher-plants or orchids, more beautiful than any that 
had previously met their eyes. 

" Mind the elephant holes !" cried Ali, who was behind 

"All right," said Tom Long, who was leading the way. " Oh, 
my gracious ! " 

There was a loud splash and a wallowing noise, followed by a 
loud suck as of some one pulling a leg out of thick mud ; and 
this proved to be the case, for on Bob running forward, and 
turning a corner of the winding path, there was Tom, just extri- 
cating himself from an elephant hole. 

For they were in a land where wheeled carriages were almost 
unknown, all portage being done either by boats on the many 
streams, or on the backs of elephants and buffaloes, by the former 
of whom the few jungle paths were terribly cut up, partly by the 
creatures' weight, but more particularly from the fact that, no 
matter how many passed along a track, or how wet and swampy 



it might be, the sagacious creatures believed in the way being safe 
where any of their kind had been before, and invariably placed 
their great round feet in the same holes ; the effect being that 
these elephant holes were often three or four feet deep, and half 
full of mud and water. 

The two Malays were called into requisition, and by means ot 
green leaves removed a good deal of the mud, but the mishap 
did not add much to the lad's comfort. However, he took it in 
very good part, and they went on for some distance, to where a 
side track, that was apparently but little used, turned off to the left, 
and the Malays, drawing their heavy knives, went first to clear 
away some of the twining creepers that hung from side to side. 

So beautiful was the jungle that for a time the two English 
lads forgot all about their guns, as they stopped hard by some 
watercourse to admire the graceful lace-fronded fern or the 
wonderful displays of moss hanging from the more ancient trees. 

But at last the weight of their guns reminded them that they 
had come to shoot, and they drew Ali's attention to the fact. 

" Wait a little," he said, smiling. " We shall soon be in a 
clearer part. You can't shoot here." 

As he said ¡ª so it proved, for after another half-hour's walking, 
during which they had become bathed in perspiration from the 
moist heat, there was less tangled growth, and the magnificent 
trees grew more distant one from the other. They were of kinds 
quite unknown to the little party, who, though seeking birds, 
could not help admiring the vast monarchs of the primeval 
forest. 

'* This looks more hopeful," cried Bob, who so far had only 
heard the occasional note of a bird which was invisible. Now 
he saw one or two flit across the sunny glade in advance. 

" Yes, there are birds here ; but take care, there are serpents 
too." 

Tom Long winced a little at this last announcement, for he had 

a horror of the twining creatures ; and as his memory ran back 
to the narrow escape of Adam Gray, from the sea snake, he asked 
with some little trepidation, ¡ª 

" Poisonous ? " 

" Oh, yes, some of them ! But you need not be alarmed, they 
hurry off as soon as they hear our steps." 

" But," said Tom, to Bob's very great delight, for he could see 
his companion's alarm, "how about the boa constrictors ?" 

*' Pythons your people call them," said AH. "Yes, there are 
plenty of them in the wet places." 

" Danererous ? " 





" No," said All, " I never knew them to be ¡ª only to the little 

pigs." 

" But am't they very large ? " 

" Oh, yes," was the reply, " big as my leg, and so long," 

He made a mark on the soft earth with one foot, and then took 
seven paces, where he made a fresh mark, indicating a length of 
about eighteen feet. 

"But they attack men sometimes, don't they?" said Tom, 
importantly. 

" No, I never knew of such a thing," said AIL " They steal 
the chickens, and swallow them whole." 

Tom felt somewhat reassured, but all the same he walked 
delicately over the thick herbage and amongst the scrub, not 
knowing but that he might plant his foot at any time upon some 
writhing creature, whose venomous fangs would be inserted in 
his leg before he could leap aside ; but no such accident befell 
him, neither had one of the party had a single shot, when Bob 
declared that he was too hungry to go farther, and going on 
alone to where a huge prostrate tree stretched its great trunk for 
many yards, he was about to sit down, when he stopped short, 
held out one hand to indicate silence, and beckoned with the 
other. 

Ali ran softly up, and on seeing at what his friend pointed, he 
signalled to one of the Malays to come. 

The man came up without a sound, caught sight oi' Bob's dis- 
covery ¡ª a black snake about five feet long, and going gently up, 
he to the lad's horror suddenly seized it by the tail, and with 
a rapid snatch drew the reptile through the left hand up to the 
neck, which the Malay grasped tightly, while the reptile writhed, 
hissed, and angrily twined itself round the man's bare brown 
arm. 

** It isn't poisonous, then ? " said Tom Long, coolly. 

" Yes," replied Ali ; "it is a cobra, one of our most dangerous 
snakes." 

The Malay held it close for the lads to examine, which, after 
learning its deadly character, they were not particularly eager to 
do ; but the native laughed, and seemed to think very little of 
the danger, ending by placing the reptile's neck upon the fallen 
tree, and decapitating it with one clean cut of the knife. 

A halt was made here, and a hearty lunch was disposed o^ 
after which, feeling rested and comparatively cool, they started 
once more, and before long the first shot was had at a blue- 
billed gaper, a lovely bird, with azure and golden bill, and jetty 
black, white, and crimson plumage. 





" One for the doctor ! " exclaimed Tom Long ; and the beauti- 
ful bird was safely stowed away. 

Ali next brought down a paroquet, with long delicate tail, and 
delicious sunset hues blushing upon its plumage oi pearly grey 
green. 

Bob followed, with a shot at a green chatterer, a lovely little 
bird, all rich green and black, with a handsome crest. 

Next followed sundry misses, and then with varying fortune 
they secured a dozen really beautifuUy-plumaged birds for the 
doctor. 

"And now," exclaimed Bob, "I think we ought to get some- 
thing for the pot" 

" For the pot ? " said Ali, looking puzzled, foi anything verging 
on sporting slang was to him as so much Greek. 

" I mean for cooking and eating." 

Ali laughed, and said something to his followers, who led the 
way on to a more densely wooded part nearer the river, whose 
proximity was indicated by the change in the character of the 
vegetation. 

" Stop a minute, though," exclaimed Tom Long. " I can't 
stand this any more. Here's something been biting me ever 

ab ! " 

He made a halt, and began to examine his ancles and legs, 
" Why, look here ? " he cried ; " I'm bleeding like fun 1 " 
Like fun or no, he was certainly bleeding freely, and the cause 
was not far to seek. In fact, as he turned up the legs of his 
trousers four bloated little leeches, satiated with their horrid 
repast, dropped ofif his skin, and he caught a couple more feast- 
ing upon him right royally. 

" You should have tied your trousers round your ancles, and 
put on your boots outside them," said Ali ; " but it won't hurt 
you." 

" Won't hurt ! " exclaimed Tom Long, indignantly ; " but it 
does hurt. Why, I'm bleeding horribly." 

At a stream close by, however, his wounds were bathed, the 
bleeding checked, and then a few shots were had at the jungle 
fowl, two brace of which, a little bigger than ordinary bantams, 
were secured before the little party halted in a clearing close to 
the river. 

Here were half a-dozen native houses, one and all built upon 
bamboo piles, so as to raise the dwellers well above the damp 
ground, the possibility of flood, and out of tlie reach of any wild 
creatures that might be wandering by night 

There was something exceedingly homelike in the appearance 





of the places, each with its scrap of garden and fruit trees ; while 

the occupant of the principal hut insisted upon the whole party 

coming to partake of rest and refreshment before continuing 
their way, 

" Oh ! we don't want to go in," said Tom Long, peevishly. 

"Well, no, I don't want to go in," said Bob, ** but the old 
fellow will be offended if we do not ; and we want to make friends, 
not enemies." 

Ali nodded, and they sat down in the bamboo-floored hut, 
through whose open door they saw their host busy sending a 
Malay boy up one of his cocoa-nut trees, the boy rapidly ascend- 
ing the lofty palm by means of nicks already cut in the tree for 
the purpose. 

Three great nuts, in their husk-like envelopes, fell directly with 
a thud, and these the friendly Malay opened and placed before 
his visitors. 

" This is very different to the cocoa-nut we boys used to buy at 
school," said Bob, as he revelled in the delicious sub-acid cream 
of the nut, and then partook of rice, with a kind of sugary con- 
fection which was very popular amongst the people. 

Homely as the outside of the huts had appeared, both the 
lads could not help noticing how similar the habits of these simple 
Malays in this out-of-the-way part of the world were to those of 
people at home. 

For instance, beneath the eaves hung a couple of cages, neatly 
made of bamboo, in one of which was a pair of the little love- 
bird paroquets side by side upon a perch ; and in the other a 
minah, a starling-like bird, that kept leaping from perch to perch, 
and repeating with a very clear enunciation several Malay words. 

Thoroughly rested at last, the little party set off again ¡ª their 
host refusing all compensation, and once more they plunged into 
the thickest of the jungle, though very little success attended 
their guns. 

This was hardly noticed, though, for there was always some- 
iiing fresh to see ¡ª huge butterflies of wondrous colours flitting 
through the more open glades, strange vegetable forms, beauti- 
fully graceful bamboos, clustering in the moister parts, where 
some stream ran unseen amidst the dense undergrowth, while at 
last they reached a river of such surpassing beauty, with its over- 
hanging ferns, in the deep ravine in which it ran, that both the 
strangers paused to admire, while the IMalays looked on with 
good-humoured wonder at their enthusiasm. 

But very little of the sluggish stream was seen for the dense 
emerald growth, and the water itself was more like a chain of 





pools, which seemed to be likely haunts of fish ; and forgetting 
heat and weariness, both the young Englishmen began to divide 
the reeds and long grass and ferns with the barrels of their guns, 
so as to peer down into the water. 

Ali, evidently to please them, displayed quite as much interest 
as they ; while the two Malays squatted down, and taking out 
sirih leaves, spread upon them a little lime paste from a box, 
rolled in them a scrap of betel-nut, and began to indulge in a 
quiet chew. 

The lads were only a few yards apart, and Bob Roberts 
cautiously approached a deep still pool, when he heard upon his 
right a splash and a rush, accompanied by a wild cry for aid. 

For the moment he was paralyzed by the strange horror of the 
cry ; but recovering himself, he rushed through the long reeds 
and ferns, to look upon a sight which, for the time, almost 
robbed him of the power to act 



CHAPTER XXV. 



HOW BOB AND TOM BAGGED STRANGE GAME. 

The young midshipman saw at a glance what had happened, 
and the sight of the deadly struggle going on roused him from 
the stupor that had assailed him. 

It was evident that Ali had been holding by one hand to the 
branch of a tree, and was leaning over just such a pool as that 
which had caught the attention of Bob, when a crocodile, taking 
advantage of his unguarded approach, had seized him by the leg 
just above the knee. 

Ali had at once dropped his gun, seized the branch with the 
other hand, and clung for life as he uttered the cry for help, 
while the reptile tugged viciously, and shook him violently, to 
make him loose his hold. 

Had the creature succeeded, the young Malay chiefs fate 
had been sealed, for in another moment he would have been 
drawn down into the deep pool, with a few bubbles ascending 
through the agitated water to show where he lay. 

The time seemed long to the brave young fellow as he held 
on for dear life ; and it seemed long to Bob Roberts before he 
could act ; but it was but a matter of moments before he had 
reached Ali's side, with his gun cocked ; and placing the piece 
close to the reptile's eye as it glared savagely at him, and seemed 
about to leave one victim to seize another, he fired both barrels 
in rapid succession. 

There was a tremendous splash as the smoke hung before him 
for a few moments, then as it rose the young middy saw nothing 
but the troubled water before him, and Ali lying panting, and 
with his eyes starting, close by his side. 

By this time Tom Long and the two Malays had come up. 
eager with questions, to which Ali answered faintly, and gladly 
partook of a little spirits from the young ensign's flask. 

" I ought to have known better," he said, " but I did not 
think of the danger. It will be a warning for you both. These 
rivers swarm with the brutes." 




" But your leg ? " cried Bob, kneeling down. 

"A little torn; that's all," said the young Malay, stoically, 
"My sarong and the trousers have saved it, I think." 

All the same though it was bleeding freely, and with a rough 
kind of surgery Bob's handkerchief was used to bind it up. 

" I'm not much hurt," said Ali then ; and to prove his words 
he rose, limped a step or two forward, and picked up his gim, 
while Bob proceeded to slip a couple more cartridges in his own, 
gazing once more eagerly into the pool, but seeing nothing but 
a little blood-stained water. 

He turned sharply round, for something touched him, and 
there stood Ali, looking at him in a peculiar manner, and hold- 
ing out one hand, which Bob took, thinking the other felt faint. 

" I can't talk now," said Ali, hoarsely ; *' but you saved my 
life. I shall never forget it." 

*' Oh, nonsense, old fellow," cried Bob. " But, I say ; what 
a brute ! He must have been twenty feet long," 

" Oh, no," said Ali, smiling faintly, " not ten. The small ones 
are the most vicious and dangerous. Let us go.*' 

" But can you walk ? " said Bob. " Have a cigar." 

" Yes ; I will smoke," said the young Malay, as he walked 
bravely on, though evidently in pain ; and lighting a cigar, he 
talked in the most unconcerned way about the creature's sudden 
attack. 

" Such things are very common," he said. " Down by the 
big river they seize the women who go for water, and carry off 
the girls who bathe. There are monsters, ten, twenty, and 

twenty-five feet long ; but we are so used to them that it does 
not occur to us to take care." 

They were now walking over the ground they had that morn- 
ing traversed, Ali seeming so much at ease, and smiling so 
nonchalantly, that his companions ceased to trouble him with 
advice and proposals that he should be carried. 

At last they came to a spot where a fresh track turned off, 
and Ali paused. 

" You will not think me rude," he said, speaking with all the 
ease of a polished gentleman, " if I leave you here ? Ismael 
will take you the nearest way down to the island. Yusuf will go 
with me. My leg is bad." 

" Then let us carry you," cried Bob. " Here, we'll soon cut 
down some bamboos and make a frame." 

" No, no, it is not so bad as that," cried the young man, 
firmly ; " and I would rather walk. This is a nearer way, and 
vou will do as I ask, please." 




The two youths hesitated, but Ali was so firm, and his utter- 
ances so decided, that although unwillingly, they felt constrained 
to obey his wishes. 

'* No, no," exclaimed Bob, " let me go with you, old fellow. 
Let us both come." 

" Do you wish to serve me more than you have already done ?" 
said Ali, quietly. 

" YeS; I do, 'pon my word," replied Bob. 

" Then please say * good-bye.' I am very nearly at home.'* 

There was nothing more to be said, so the young Englishmen 
shook hands and parted from their companion, after he had 
promised to send word by Yusuf the next day how he was. 

*' I don't half feel satisfied," said Bob, trudging along behind 
the Malay who was their guide. " I think we ought to have 
gone with him, Tom." 

"I feel so too," was the reply, "but what could we do? 
Perhaps he was not so very much hurt after all." 

They were tired now, and the heat of the afternoon seemed 
greater than ever, so that they longed to get out of the stifling 
forest to the open banks of the river. But they were as yet far 
away, and their guide made a cut along the side of a patch of 
marshy ground, looking back from time to time to see if they 
followed. 

** Snipe, by all that's wonderful ! " cried Bob, firing two barrels 
almost as he spoke, and bringing down four birds out of a flock 
t?hat bore some resemblance to, but were double the size of, snipes. 

Tom raised his piece for a shot, but he was too late ; and 
Yusuf smiled and showed his teeth as he ran and picked up the 
birds, tied their legs together with some grass, and added them 
to the jungle-fowl he was carrying. 

" Well, they won't be able to laugh at us," said Bob, '* We 
shan't go back empty. Hallo ! what the dickens now ? " 

For a couple of scantily clad Malay girls, their sarongs torn 
and ragged with forcing their way through the bushes, came 
panting up, uttering loud cries, and flinging themselves down at 
the astonished youths' feet, clung to their legs, while Yusuf be- 
gan to abuse them angrily, and kicking one, was about to thrust 
away the other with his foot. 

" You leave them alone, will you ? " said Bob, giving him a 
rap on the head with his gun-barrel. "I wish to goodness I 
knew what was the Malay for cowardly b€ast, and you should 
have it, young fellow." 

The Malay's hand flew to his kris as he threw down the birds, 
and it flashed in the sunshine directly. 




" Ah ! would you bite ? " cried Bob, presenting his gun at 
the other's breast, when the man shrank away, with his eyes 
half dosed, and a peculiarly tigerish aspect about him as he drew 
his lips from his white teeth, but kept at a respectful distance, 
knowing as he did how ably the young sailor could use his 
gun. 

Just then the girls renewed their cries and lamentations, 
clinging wildly to the youths as if for protection, as half-a-dozen 
Malays, armed with krises and the long limbings, or spears, they 
can use with such deadly force, came running up, and made as 
if to seize upon the two girls. 

" Keep off, will you ! Confound your impudence, what do 
you mean ? " roared Bob, slewing round his gun to face the new 
comers. " I say, Tom, what fools we do seem not to be able to 
speak this stupid lingo ! What are they jabbering about ? " 

" Hang me, if I know," said Tom, whose face was flushed with 
heat and excitement. "All I can make out is that they want 
these two Malay ladies who have come to us to protect them." 

" Then, as my old nurse used to say, * want will be their 
master,' " said Bob, angrily ; " for they're not going to have them." 

The leader of the Malay party volubly said something to the 
two English, and then said some angry words to the two girls, 
who clung more tightly to their protectors, as he caught each by 
her shoulder. 

Bob brought the barrel of his gun down heavily on the Malay's 
head, in the same fashion as he had served Yusuf, who was now 
missing, having suddenly glided away. 

The Malay leaped back, tore out his kris, and made at his 
assailant; but the presented barrels of the two guns kept him back, 
as they did his companions, who had presented their limbings 
as their leader drew his kris, while now the girls leaped bravely 
up, and interposed their bodies between the two youths and the 
threatened danger. 

" That's very prettily done, my dears," said Bob ; ** but you 
are both of you horribly in the way if we should shoot, and it 
isn't the fashion in England. Place aux Messieurs in a case 
like this. There, you stand behind me." 

He gently placed the girl behind him, keeping his gun the 
while pointed at the Malays, and Tom Long followed his ex- 
ample. 

" Shall we shoot. Bob Roberts ? " said the ensign, hoarsely. 

" No," said Bob, whose voice sounded just as hoarse. " Not 
unless they try to do us miscliief. This is the time for a strate- 
gical retreat, as they are three to one, and we may at any time 





be cut off. I say, Tom, I feel in such a horrible state of squirm ; 
don't you?" 

" Never was so frightened in my life," replied Tom, " but 
pray don't show it." 

" Show it ? " replied Bob sharply ; " hang *era, no ; they should 
cut me to pieces first. But I say, old fellow, I never thought I 
was such a coward before." 

" More did I," replied Tom. " Suppose they understand what 
we're saying ! " 

" Not they ; no more than we can them. I say, I have it ! 
These are two slaves trying to escape, and these chaps want to 
get them back." 

" Then we'll take them right away to the fort," cried Tom. 
" Look out ! *' he added, as, after speaking to his followers, the 
chief Malay made another angry advance with the men, 

'^ Now look here, Mr Caf^-au-lait," said Bob, raising his gun 
this time to his shoulder, as he spoke aloud, " if you don*t sheer 
off, I'll let fly at you a regular broadside. Be ready, Tom," 

" Ready I " was the sharp reply, " when you say Fire." 

" Right," replied Bob. "Now then, old check-petticoat, are 
you going to call off your men ? " 

For answer the Malay pointed to the two trembling girls, and 
signed to his men to advance with their spears. 

" I'm horribly alarmed, Tom ! " cried Bob, " but retreating now 
is showing the white feather, and we shall be whopped. Now 
then, don't fire, but let's make a dash at them." 

The Malays were only about three yards off, having before 
retreated five or six, but now they had diminished the distance, 
when the two lads, with their pieces at their shoulders, stepped 
boldly forward, with the result that the Malays broke and fled, 
their leader first ; and out of bravado Tom Long fired a shot 
over their heads to quicken their steps, while Bob burst into a 
hearty fit of laughter. 

" Look here ! " he said. " Here's a game ! Only look, sojer !" 

" What is it I " cried Tom, drawing out the empty cartridge 
case and putting in a new one. " Why, you don't mean to say ¡ª " 

*' But I just do mean to say it ! " cried Bob, stamping about 
and laughing as he opened the breech of his gun, and drew out 
two empty cases, to replace with full 

"Not loaded!" 

" No," cried Bob, " That moment, you know, I shot at the 
snipes, and hadn't time to load again. Did you ever see such a 
game, keeping those chaps oflf with an empty gun ? Oh, I say, 
don't 1 " 





This last was in consequence of the energetic action taken by 
the two poor girls, who, seeing themselves now safe, began to 
demonstrate their gratitude by hysterical cries and sobs, seizing 
and kissing the lads* hands, and finally placing their arms round 
them and kissing their cheeks. 

" Oh, this is awful ! " cried Tom Long, who was blushing like 
a girl. 

" I shall be compelled to tell my mamma !" said Bob. " There^ 
there, it's all right. Come, give me your hand, Semiramis, or 
Cleopatra, or whatever your name is, and let us make haste down 
to the river before it is too late." 

The girl seemed to understand him, and ceased sobbing as 
she prepared to continue the flight, the other clinging to Tom- 
Long's left hand. 

" I say, though, let's have the birds," said Bob, stooping to- 
pick them up ; but the girl snatched them from him, to carry them 
herself. 

" Yes, Tom, old fellow \ no doubt about it, they're slaves. 
Come along, or we shall be cut off. It's not polite to let the 
ladies carry the baggage, but as we are the escort we must be 
prepared to fight." 

" I say 1 " cried Tom Long, " do you know the way ? " 

" Not I," said Bob ; " don't you ? " 

" Not the ghost of an idea ! " cried Tom. 

The girls were watching them, and evidently in a state ot 
great excitement were trying to comprehend their words \ but as 
soon as they saw their indecision, and their bold start off in 
the direction they imagined to be correct, then the slave girls 

understood their dilemma and stopped them, gesticulating and 
shaking their heads as they pointed in a quite fresh direction. 

'' They know where the ship lies, see if they don't," said Bob. 
" Let's trust them." 

** But suppose they lead us wrong? " replied Tom. 

" Not they," cried Bob. " They'll lead us right away. Come 
along, my fair specimens of chocolate \ vanille ; and the sooner 
we are safe under the British flag, the better I shall like it." 

The girls started off at a sharp walk, and then made signs 
that they should run. 

" All right," said Bob, nodding his head. " Double there, in 
the infantry brigade ! Naval brigade to the front ! Forward ! " 

He broke into a trot, and the little party ran sharply on, to the- 
great delight of the two escaped slaves, who, as Bob had pro- 
phesied, led them straight away to the side of the river, which 
they reached without encountering a souL 



" I'm about knocked up," said Bob, panting. *' It's disgusting 
to find these girls can beat us hollow at running." 

" The doctor's specimens are all shaken up into a regular 
mash ! " said Tom Long, peeping into the vasculum hung by a 
strap from his shoulder. 

** Never mind," replied Bob. " Here's the boat coming. I 
shall come with you straight ; or no : let's take them on board 
the ' Startler ' ? " 

" No, no ! " said Tom, " they must come to the fort" 

" No, no, to the * Startler,' I tell you." 

" No, no, to the fort." 

" Then we'll split the difference, and take them to the resi- 
dency," said Bob ; and as the boat touclied the shore they stood 
back for the girls to leap in, and then crouch down with their 
arms around each other's neck, sobbing with joy as they 
felt that now they were safe. 

There was no little excitement as the two girls were landed, 
and Mr Linton seemed puzzled as to what he should do ; but 
the poor creatures were safe now under the protection of the 
British flag -, and Bob Roberts and Tom Long proceeded to the 
doctor's quarters for a thorough wash and change, having fully 
verified old Dick's prophecy that they would be in mischief before 
the day was out. 



CHAPTER XXVL 



HOW THE TWO COMPANIONS WERE KNOCKED OFF THEIR PERCH. 



If they had not been English, the probabilities are that Bob 
Roberts and Tom Long would have hugged each other. As it 
was they seemed to think it quite the correct thing to shake 
hands over and over again, and then walk up and down under 
the palm trees of the enclosure, flushed, excited, and as' full of 
swagger as they could possibly be. 

" Blest if they don't look hke a couple o* young game cocks 
who have just killed their birds," said old Dick to Billy 
Mustard. " My word, they are cocky 1 But where are you 
going, old man ? " 

" To fetch my instrument,'* said Billy. 

" What, yer fiddle ? What do you want that ere for ? ** 

" The young gents wants it," said Billy, 

So with a nod he went into his quarters, to retmn with his 
beloved violin in its green baize bag, which he bore to where 
Bob and Tom were now seated at one of the tables beneath a 
shady tree. 

On the strength of their adventure they were indulging them- 
selves with bitter beer, into which they dropped lumps of ice, 
and as soon as Billy Mustard came, the violin was brought out, 
tuned, and the harmonious sound produced had the effect of 
soon gathering together an audience in the soft mellow hour 
before sunset. 

Several officers seated themselves at the table, and followed 
the youngsters* example ; soldiers and sailors gathered at a 
little distance beneath the trees ; and unseen by the party below, 
Rachel Linton and Mary Sinclair appeared at a mat-shaded 
window. 

" Tom Long's going to sing * The Englishman,' " shouted Bob 
Roberts suddenly, and there was a loud tapping upon the rough 
deal table. 




" No, no, I really can*t, 'pon honour," said the ensign, looking 
very much more flushed than before. 

" Yes, yes, he is," said Bob, addressing those around. " He 
is ¡ª in honour of the occasion ; and gentlemen, let's sing out the 
chorus so loudly that those niggers in the campong can hear 
our sentiments, and shiver in their shoes, where they've got 
any. " 

" Hear ! hear ! " said a young lieutenant. 

" But really, you know, I hav'n't a voice," exclaimed the 
€nsign in expostulation. 

" Gammon 1" cried Bob. ** He can sing like a bird, gentle- 
nien. Silence, please, for our national song, ' The English- 
man ' ! " 

" I can't sing it ¡ª indeed I can't," cried the ensign. 

" Oh, yes, you can ; go on," said the young lieutenant who had 
previously spoken. 

'* To be sure he will," cried Bob Roberts. " Heave ahead 
Tom, and I'll help whenever I can. It's your duty to sing it, for 
the niggers to hear our sentiments with regard to slavery ! " 

" Hear, hear ! " cried several of the officers, laughing ; and the 
men gave a cheer. 

" Slavery and the British flag ! " cried Bob Roberts, who was 
getting excited. " No man, or woman either, who has once 
sought protection beneath the folds of the glorious red white and 
blue, can ever return to slavery ! " 

" Hear, hear, hear ! " shouted the officers again, and the men 
threw up their caps, cried " Hoorar ! " and the sentry on the roof 
presented arms, 

" Now then, play up. Private Mustard ¡ª * The Englishman,' " 
cried Bob Roberts. " Get ready, Tom, and run it out with all 
your might ! " 

" Must I ? " said the ensign, nervously. 

"To be sure you must Wait a minute, though, and let him 
play the introduction. 

Billy Mustard gave the bow a preliminary scrape, and the 
audience grew larger. 

" What key shall I play it in, sir?" said Billy. 

*' Any key you like," cried Bob, excitedly. " Play it in a whole 
bunch of keys, my lad, only go ahead, or we shall forget all the 
words." 

Off" went the fiddle with a flourish over the first strain of the 
well-known song, and then, after a couple of efforts to sing, Tom 
L,ong broke dovn, and Bob Roberts took up the strain, singing 
it in a cheery rollicking boyish way, growing more confident 





every moment, and proving that he had a musical tenor voice. 
Then as he reached the end of the first verse, he waved his 
puggaree on high, jumped upon the table to the upsetting of a 
couple of glasses, and led the chorus, which was lustily trolled out 
by all present. 

On went Bob Roberts, declaring how the flag waved on every 
sea, and should never float over a slave, throwing so much en- 
thusiasm into the song that to a man all rose, and literally roared 
the chorus, ending with three cheers, and one cheer more for the 
poor girls ; and as Bob Roberts stood upon the table flushed and 
hot, he felt quite a hero, and ready to go on that voxy night and 
rescue half-a-dozen more poor slave girls from tyranny, if they 
would only appeal to him for help. 

** Three cheers for Mr Roberts," shouted Dick, the sailor, as 
Billy Mustard was confiding to a friend that "a fiddle soon got 
outer toon in that climate." 

" Yes, and three cheers for Mr Long," shouted Bob. " Come 
up here, Tom, old man ; you did more than I did." 

Tom Long was prevailed upon to mount the table, where he 
bowed again and again as the men cheered ; when, as a lull 
came in the cheering, Billy Mustard, whose fiddle had been 
musically whispering to itself in answer to the well-drawn bow, 
suddenly made himself heard in the strain of " Rule Britannia/* 
which was sung in chorus with vigour, especially when the 
singers declared that Britons never, ncvcTy never should be 
slaves ; which rang out far over the attap roofs of the drowsy 
campong. 

So satisfied were the singers that they followed up with the 
National Anthem, which was just concluded when the resident 
sent one of his servants to express a hope that the noise was 
nearly at an end. 

" Well, 1 think we have been going it," said Bob Roberts, 
jumping down. " Come along, Tom. IVe got two splendid 
cigars ¡ª real Manillas." 

Tom Long, to whom this public recognition had been ex- 
tremely painful, was only too glad to join his companion on a 
form beneath a tree, where the two genuine Manillas were lit, 
and for a quarter of an hour the youths smoked on complacently, 
when just as the exultation of the public singing was giving way 
to a peculiar sensation of depression and sickness, and each 
longed to throw away half his cigar, but did not dare, Adam 
Gray came up to where they were seated gradually growing pal* 
and wan. 

" All, Gray," said the ensign, " what is it ? " 




'*The major, sir, requests that you will favour him with your 
company directly." 

" My company ? " cried the ensign ; " what's the matter ? " 

"Don't know, sir; but I think it's something about those 
slave girls. And Captain Horton requested me to tell you to 
come too, sir," he continued, turning to Bob Roberts. 

" We're going to get promotion, I know, Tom," said the 
middy. 

" No, no," said the ensign, dolefully, " it's a good wigging." 

Bob Roberts, although feeling far from exalted now, did not 
m anywise believe in the possibility ol receiving what his com- 
panion euphoniously termed a " wigging," and with a good deal 
of his customary independent and rather impudent swagger he 
followed the orderly to a cool lamp-lit room, where sat in 
solemn conclave, the resident, Maj or Sandars, and Captain 
Horton. 

" That will do, Gray," said Major Sandars, as the youths en- 
tered; and saluted the three officers seated like judges at a table, 
" but be within hearing." 

" Might ask us to sit down," thought Bob, as he saw from the 
aspect of the three gentlemen that something serious was afloat. 

But the new arrivals were not asked to sit down, and they 
stood before the table feeling very guilty, and like a couple of 
prisoners ; though of what they had been guilty, and why they 

were brought there, they could not imagine. 

" It's only their serious way," thought Bob ; " they are going 
to compliment us." 

He stared at the shaded lamp, round which four or five moths 
and a big beetle were wildly circling in a frantic desire to commit 
suicide, but kept from a fiery end by gauze wire over the chimney. 

" What fools moths and beetles are ! " thought Bob, and then 
his attention was taken up by the officers. 

" Will you speak. Major Sandars ? " said the resident. 

" No, I think it should come from you, Mr Linton. What do 
you say. Captain Horton ? " 

" I quite agree with you. Major Sandars," said the captain 
stiffly. 

" What the dickens have we been doing ? " thought Bob ; and 
then he stared hard at the resident, and wished heartily that 
Rachel Linton's father had not been chosen to give him what he 
felt sure was a setting down for some reason or another, 

** As you will, gentlemen,'* said the resident firmly, and he then 
placed his elbows on the table and joined his fingers, while the 
light fi:om the lamp shown full upon his forehead. 




" Mr Ensign Long ¡ª Mr Midshipman Roberts," he began. 

" He might have placed me first," thought Bob. ^' I wish some 
one would catch those wretched moths." 

" You have been out on an expedition to-day ? " 

He waited for an answer, and as Tom Long had been placed 
first, Bob waited, too ; but as his companion did not speak, Bob 
exclaimed quickly, ¡ª 

" Yes, sir, snipe shooting ; " and as the resident bowed his 
head, Bob added, " two brace." 

"Confound you ¡ª you young dogs! "cried Captain Horton, 

" and you brought a brace of something else. I beg your pardon, 

Mr Linton ; go on." 

Mr Linton bowed, while Bob uttered a barely audible whistle, 
and glanced at his companion. 

" Then it's about those two girls," he thought 

" It seems, young gentlemen," continued the resident, " that 
while you were out, you met too young Malay girls ? " 

"Yes, sir." 

" Who had run away from their master ? " 

"From their owner, as he seemed to consider himself, sir," 

said Bob, who, to use his own words, felt as if all the fat was in 

the fire now, and blazed up accordingly. *'You see, sir," he 

said quickly, " we were watching for something that we saw in 

the reeds, close to the boggy ground, you know, and Tom here 

thought it was pig, but I thought it might be a deer. So we stood 

quite still till we heard sounds in the distance, when out jumped 

two dark creatures, and I was going to fire, when we saw that 

they were girls." 

** And they ran up to us," said Tom Long. 

** Like winking," said Bob, " and threw themselves on their 
knees, and clung to our legs, and wouldn't let go. Then up came 
half-a-dozen of the niggers ¡ª " 

" I think, Mr Roberts, we will call people by their right names," 
said the resident, quietly ; ** suppose we say Malays." 

" Yes, sir, Malays ; and laid liold of the girls to drag them 
away. They screamed out, and that roused us, and we sent the 
nig ¡ª Malays sta.ggQxing back. For you see, sir^as Englishmen ¡ª 

" English what ¡ª Mr Roberts ? " said Captain Horton. 

"Men, sir. I'm a midship;//a;?, sir," said Bob, sharply; and 
the captain grunted out something that sounded like " impudent 
young puppy I " but he did not look angry. 

" Go on, Mr Roberts," said the resident. 

" Well, sir, being English ¡ª boys ¡ª big boys, who felt like men 
just then ¡ª " said Bob, rather sarcastically. 




"That's not bad, Mr Roberts/* said Major Sandars, with a 
glance at the naval captain. 

" Well, sir, as the poor girls had regularly appealed to us to 
protect them, and the nig ¡ª Malays, sir, whipped out their krises, 
we presented arms, and would have given them a peppering of 
snipe shot if they hadn*t sheered off, when we brought the two 
poor weeping slave girls under the protection of the British flag, 
and set them free. Didn't we, Tom ? " 

" Yes," said Tom Long, looking nervously at the resident, and 
wondering what Rachel Linton thought about their feat. 

There was a dead silence for a few moments, during which 
Bob Roberts wiped his streaming forehead, for he felt uncom- 
fortably hot. Then the resident began, ¡ª 

"I think I am speaking the sentiments of my friends here, 
young gentlemen, when I say that you both behaved just as two 
brave British lads would be expected to behave under the cir- 
cumstances." 

" Yes," said Major Sandars, " Ensign Long, I felt sure, would 
not be wanting, if called upon." 

Tom Long's face grew the colour of his best uniform. 

" Very plucky act," said Captain Horton ; and he nodded in 
so friendly a way at the middy, that Bob felt quite beaming. 

" But," continued the resident, speaking very slowly, and as if 
weighing every word he said, " what is very beautiful in senti- 
ment, and very brave and manly if judged according to our own 
best feelings, young gentlemen, becomes very awkward some- 
times if viewed through the spectacles of diplomacy," 

" I ¡ª I don't understand you, sir," faltered Bob. 

" Let me be explicit then, young gentlemen. You both were, 
it seems, granted leave of absence to-day, for indulging in a little 
innocent sport, but by your brave, though very indiscreet conduct, 
you have, I fear, completely overset the friendly relations that we 
have been trying so hard to establish with these extremely sensi- 
tive people." 

" But, sir," began Bob, " the poor girls " 

" Yes, I know all that," said the resident quietly ; " but slavery- 
is a domestic institution among these people, and to-morrow I 
feel sure that I shall have a visit from some of the sultan's chief 
men, demanding that these poor girls be given up." 

" But they can't be now, sir," said Tom Long. 
'" No, Mr Long, we cannot return the poor girls to a state of 
slavery ; but do you not see into what an awkward position your 
act has brought us ? " 

'* I'm very sorry, sir." 



" Yes, but sorrow will not mend it We have been, and are, 
living on the edge of a volcano here, young gentlemen, and the 
slightest thing may cause an eruption. This act of yours, I 
greatly fear, will bring the flames about our heads." 

Bob Roberts turned pale, as he thought of the ladies. 

" But they'd never dare, sir," he began. 

"Dare? I believe the Malays are quite daring enough to 
attack us, should they feel disposed. But there, we need not dis- 
cuss that matter. You young gentlemen have, however, been very 
jubilant over your rescue of these poor girls, and you have been 
summoned here to warn you, while your respective officers take 
into consideration what punishment is awarded to you, that your 
noisy demonstrations are very much out of place." 

" Punishment, sir I " said Bob, who looked aghast. 

"Yes," said the resident sharply, "punishment. You do 
seem to realize, young gentleman, that your act to-day has fired 
a train. Besides which, it is a question of such import that I must 
make it the basis of a special despatch to the colonial secretary 
at Whitehall" 

Bob Roberts turned round and stared at Tom Long, but the 
latter was staring at Major Sandars. 

" I don't think I need say any more, young gentlemen," said 
the resident quietly, " and I fervently hope that I may be able to 
peaceably settle this matter ; but it is quite on the cards that it 
may be the cause of a deadly strife. And I sincerely trust that 
whatever may be the upshot of this affair, it may be a warning to 
you, as young English officers, to think a little more, and con- 
sider, before you take any serious step in your careers ; for some- 
times a very slight error may result in the loss of life. In this 
case, yours has not been a slight error, but a grave one." 

" Though we all own as quite true," said Captain Horton, 
"that we don't see how you could have acted differently; eh, 
Sandars ? " 

" Yes, yes, of course. But, hang it all, Long, how could you 
go and get into such a confounded pickle ? It's too bad, sir, 
'pon my soul, sir; it is too bad ¡ª much too bad." 

** Are we to be under arrest, sir ? " said Bob Roberts, rather 
blankly. 

" Not if you'll both promise to keep within bounds," said Cap- 
tain Horton. " No nonsense." 

" No, sir," said Bob glumly. 

" Of course not, sir," said Tom, 

" That will do then, young gentlemen," said the resident gravely; 
and the two youth.s went blankly off to their severa] quarters. 




" Poor boys ! I'm sorry for them," said the resident sadly. 

" Yes, it's a confounded nuisance, Linton," said Major Sandars 
"but you must diplomatize, and set all right somehow or 
another." 

" That's a fine boy, that Roberts," said Captain Horton. 

" I'll try my best, gentlemen," said the resident, " for all our 
sakes ; but we have a curious people to deal with, and I fear that 
this mav turn out a verv serious affair." 



CHAPTER XXVII. 



HOW DIPLOMACY WORKED IN A MALAY STAXa 

The Parang river looked like a belt of damasked silver studded 
with diamonds the next morning, while the waving feathery palms 
were of the brightest green. Mingled with these, on the shore 
farthest from the town, were the dadap trees, whose ripe scarlet 
blossoms stood out in rich relief as they gave colour to a land- 
scape already dotted with the blooms of the chumpaka, both 
yellow and white, shedding a sweet scent that Doctor Bolter said 
was like Cape jasmin, but which Bob Roberts declared to re- 
semble tea made with lavender water. 

The *' Startler," with her deck as white as hands could make it, 
lay looking smart and bright in her moorings below the island, 
her yards perfectly square, her sides glistening with fresh paint, 
her brass rails, bell, and guns flashing back the sun's rays, and 
the awnings spread over the deck almost as white as snow. 

Here and there the Jacks, in their duck frocks and straws, 
were paddling about barefooted in the sunshine, giving the last 
touches to the rails and glass of the skylights. 

On the island the resident's house and the barrack fort looked 
more like some ornamented set of buildings for summer pleasure, 
than a couple of places designed as a stronghold and retreat in 
case of danger. For the ditch and the earthwork were now car- 
petted with verdant growth, while the abattis, having been made 
of green wood, was putting forth fresh shoots. 

Both the resident and Major Sandars had been desirous of 
retaining all the shade possible, for the protection of the men ; 
therefore, save where they were likely to afford harbour to the 
enemy, trees and bushes had been spared. The men too, having 
plenty of time at disposal, had been encouraged to take to gar- 
dening, and with Doctor Bolter for head instructor, the place had 
been made to present the appearance of a nursery ground, where 
one bed rivalled another in the perfection of its growing vegetables. 
Neat, well-kept walks led up to the fort and the resident's house. 





which daily grew brighter and more picturesque, with its orna- 
mented reed-woven walls, and carefully thatched roof of attap. 
The broad verandah, with its punkahs, was made gay with beauti- 
ful creepers, climbing the pillars of palm and bamboo, and 
festooning the edges, some of these being jasmines of great size 
and beauty ; while rough rotan baskets hung at inten^als, full of 
moss and dead wood, on which flourished the wonderful orchids 
and pitcher plants that were the delight of the ladies of the 
residency. 

By the help of Doctor Bolter and Adam Gray, a large cask had 
been cut in half, and decorated on the outsides and edges with 
rough bark, in whose interstices were planted orchids, and the 
pretty maiden-hair fern ; while upon these being both mounted 
upon a short rough stump, they formed a couple of rustic vases 
of huge size, standing just inside the broad verandah, on either 
side of the entrance door, and looked, when filled with water, 
and supplied with aquatic plants, no slight additions to the 
beauty of the place. 

Upon one of his excursions with net and can Doctor Bolter had 
succeeded in capturing several of the beautiful little chastadons, 
or shooting-fish ; tiny little broad fellows, beautifully banded, 
whose peculiarity was the adroitness with which they would lie in 
wait for any unfortunate fly that settled on the edge of an aquatic 
leaf, and then fire ¡ª or rather, water ofl" at it a tiny globule, with 
such unerring aim, that the insect was generally brought down 
into the water and swallowed. Three or four would sometimes 
sail round one after the other shooting at a fly in turn till it was 
knocked off, when a rush took place for the dainty prize. 

But the river and the little jungle streams abounded with 
miniature fish of great beauty, their peculiarity being the way in 
which they were coloured, some being of a most gorgeous scarlet, 
with broad bands of vivid blue across their sides. 

All on board the " Startler " was the perfection of neatness, and 
from a friendly rivalry the residency and fort were as smart and 
neat ; perhaps never did they look to greater perfection than on 
the day after the adventure of Bob Roberts and Tom Long. 

The morning drill was over, and the sun was growing intensely 
hot, when there was heard the sound of a gong in the distance, 
and one of the sentries announced the coming of a boat 

As it drew near it was seen to be one belonging to the sultan, 
with a couple of his principal officers therein. 

They landed, each in his gay silken sarong, in whose folds the 
handle of the kris was carefully wrapped, to indicate that they 
were bound on a friendly mission, and leaving their men at the 



bamboo landing-stage fitted up by the sailors, they made their 
way to the residency. 

No sooner had the news been given to Mr Linton of the 
approach of the sultan*s boat than a signal was hoisted, whose 
effect was that the captain's gig was lowered down, and he 
arrived at the stage directly after, joining Major Sandars who 
had been fetched by an orderly, both officers being in full 
uniform. 

" I say, Tom," said Bob Roberts to his companion, who had 
come across to the ship a short time before, " if I were you I'd 
go back and fig myself. I shall put on my best duds, for you see 
if we ar'n't sent for to meet those two coffee-coloured swells." 
.* Tom Long, who was rather low-sprited about the matter, took 
the middy's advice, and went back to the island, where the 
visitors had already been ushered into the resident's reception 
room, the captain and major dropping in directly after as if by 
accident. 

It was the most friendly of visits. The two officers were the 
tumongong, or chief magistrate, and the muntri, or chief adviser, 
of the sultan ; and nothing could have been more amiable than 
their demeanour as they conversed with Mr Linton, who from 
time to time interpreted to the two British officers. 

Was there anything the sultan could do in the way of provid 
ing better supplies of rice, fruit, and meat ? A great fish expedi- 
tion was about to be set afoot, and more would be brought down 
the river and kept in floating tanks. If the resident would only 
speak, everything possible should be done. 

Nothing was required, so thanks were returned; when the 
tumongong smiled most agreeably, and said that he must now 
come to the chief object of his visit. The fact was, the sultan 
had decided to have a great tiger hunt. Much mischief had of 
late been done by tigers. Several poor fellows, especially China- 
men, had been carried off from the rice-fields, and the sultan 
had decided to get together all his elephants, with a large 
number of beaters, and have a great hunt. Would the British 
officers bring their rifles and help ? Elephants should be placed 
at their disposal, the largest the country produced, and every 
thing done to make the hunt a success. 

" Then it's a mare's nest after all, Sandars," said Captain 
Horton. "They're not going to take any notice of those boys' 
tricks. What do you say ; shall we go ? " 

" I should enjoy it immensely," said the major, " I long for a 
shot at a tiger." 

"Wait a little, gentlemen," said the resident, smiling; "the 




interview is not at an end. What shall I reply about the hunt- 
ing party ? " 

*'0h, we shall be delighted to go. You'll go too?" said 
Captain Horton, answering for both. 

" If matters are pleasantly settled," said Mr Linton. Then 
turning to the two Malay officers, whose dark restless eyes had 
been scanning the faces in turn, he said that they would be 
most happy to accept the sultan's invitation. 

The officers were delighted, and declared that the sultan's joy 
would know no bounds. 

They had previously declined all refreshments, but now that 
their business was at an end they accepted cigars, and laughed 
and chatted, evidently enjoying the visit immensely, and ac- 
cepting a proposal to walk round the grounds with alacrity. 

As they went into the verandah, the resident found a couple 
of the sultan's men waiting, with a present of the choicest fruit 
the country produced \ huge durlans, and fine mangosteens, with 
the most select kinds of plaintain known for the delicacy of 
their flavour. 

The visitors took an almost childish delight in the fish in the 
two fonts, and smiled with pleasure at the sight of the large 
selection of flowers ; but a keen observer would have noticed 
that as they walked round the fort and earthworks the muntri 
eagerly scanned every preparation for defence, though apparently 
more attracted by the uniforms of the sentries than anything else. 

As they were crossing the little parade ground, with its well- 
trampled soil, on their way back to their boat, Tom Long was 
encountered, on his way to the mess-room. 

He started on coming upon the Uttle party so suddenly, but 
saluted and went on. 

Oddly enough that brought to the muntri's memory a little 
affair that had happened on the previous day. Two young 
officers of the ship had been ashore shooting birds, and they 
found a party of the country people behaving rather ill to a couple 
of slave girls, and naturally enough, like all young men would, 
they took the girls under their protection, and brought them to 
the residency. Was it not so ? 

" Yes," the resident replied j " and they are now with the 
ladies." 

That was so good and kind, and so like the English, who were 
a great and generous nation. The sultan had been terribly 
annoyed at his people behaving so ill to the poor girls, the 
muntri continued, and they had been punished, which was quite 
right ¡ª was it not ? 




The resident perfecdy agreed with the muntri, who smiled 
content, while the tumongong looked hurt and sad. 

He was so glad that Kajah Linton was satisfied at what the 
sultan had done, and the sultan would be greatly happy at his 
acts meeting such approval from the chief of the great queen. 
So that was settled. He thanked the resident more than he 
could tell, and he would give him no more trouble about the two 
poor girls, but take them back in the boat. 

This was very cleverly done, but the sultan's officers had to 
deal with an equally clever man, one who was well versed in 
oriental wiles and diplomacy. Mr Linton was in no wise taken 
aback, since he had been waiting for this, and therefore was quite 
prepared to reply firmly that such a proceeding was impossible. 
The two girls had been brought beneath the British flag, and 
hence were slaves no longer. He could not therefore give 
them up. 

Of course the resident meant that he could not send them back 
then, the muntri observed, smiling. Perhaps the poor girls were 
ill with their fright, and the rajah resident would send them back 
when they were better. 

The resident assured his visitors that such a course was im- 
possible, for according to the British laws the girls were now free, 
and could not be forced to go back. 

The two officers did not press the matter, but began to ask 
questions about a breech-loading cannon, and were greatly sur- 
prised at the ease with which it was charged. 

They had by this time finished their cigars, and being near the 
landing-stage, they took a most effusive leave of the three officers, 
entered their boat, and were rowed away. 

" Well, then," said Captain Horton, as soon as he heard the 

parts of the conversation that he had not understood, "that 
game's over, and they are beaten at diplomacy ? " 

" Yes," said Major Sandars. " I envy you your command of 
countenance, and knowledge of the language, Linton." 

" Game ? over ? " said Mr Linton, smiling sadly. ** No, my 
dear sirs, that is only the first move our adversaries have made 
¡ª king's pawn two squares forward ; to which I have replied with 
queen's pawn one square forward." 

" And that's a bad move, isn't it, Horton? " exclaimed Major 
Sandars. 

" So the chess books make one think," said the captain. 

" It all depends upon your adversary and your game," said the 
resident, smiling. *' Gentlemen, I hope I have done right." 

" And what are you going to do now ? " said Captain Horton- 



" Wait to see our adversary's next move. Meanwhile, gentle- 
men, extra caution will do no harm, for we have touched the 
Malays in one of their most sensitive places." 

** We ? You mean those young scamps of boys," said Captain 
Horton. 

"Oh, it*s we all the same,** said Major Sandars. "Well, 
what's to be done ? " 

" I should, without seeming to do anything, put on a few extra 
sentries, Major Sandars," said the resident ; " and. Captain 
Horton, I should be ready for action at a moment's notice, and 
be cautious about who came on board, and what prahus anchored 
near." 

" Quite right ¡ª quite right, Linton," said Captain Horton. 
" You had no business to be a civilian. You ought to have been 
in the service." 

The resident smiled, and they separated, as Mr Linton said, 
to wait for the enemy's next move. 



CHAPTER XXVIII. 



HOW SULTAN HAMET VISITED HIS FRIENDS. 

The enemy, as the resident termed the sultan's party, made no 
move for a couple of days, during which all went on as usual. 
There was the usual morning parade in the fort, and the soldiers 
gardened, idled, smoked, and told one another it was "jolly 
hot" ¡ª a fact that needed no telling. On board the "Startler" 
the men were beat to quarters, and went through their drill in 
the cool of the morning, before hammock rails, the sentries' 
rifles, and the breeches of the glistening guns grew too hot to be 
touched with impunity. So hot was it, that, like the burnt child 
who fears the fire. Bob Roberts was exceedingly cautious about 
placing his hands in any spot where they were likely to be de- 
filed by the pitch that cannot be touched without those conse- 
quences ; for from between seams, and the strands of well-laid 
cables, it oozed, and even bubbled out, beneath the ardent wooing 
of the tropic sun. 

It was a listless life, but a pleasant one, for such strict disci- 
pline was observed, and stringent rules laid down by the medical 
officer of the corvette and the detachment, that the men kept 
in excellent health. They had plenty of amusements ; fruit was 
abundant, and they had taken quite a taste for the coarse 
country tobacco, which many of the soldiers smoked after the 
Malay fashion, rolled up i la cigarette in the roko, or outer 
sheath of the palm leaf, or the plaintain. Some, too, adopted 
the Malay's plan of rapidly cutting a pipe from a short joint of 
bamboo, which, with a hole bored in the side for the insertion 
of a thin reed or quill, formed a pipe much affected by the Jacks 
when they took their tobacco in smoke, instead of by the un- 
pleasantly moist masticating process. 

At the residency all went on as usual ; sometimes the ladies 
received, and there was the sound of music and singing in the 
pleasantly lit-up verandah ; sometimes Captain Horton sent his 
gig, and the agreeable little reunions were held on board the 





" Startler," in an improvised tent, draped with the ship's colours, 
while the lights were reflected on the smooth surface of the 
hurrying stream, and the Malays on shore watched the figures 
that passed to and fro till the party was over. 

Captain Horton and Major Sandars both thought the rajah's 
party had forgotten the affair; but the resident held to his 
opinion, which was strengthened by the imploring manner in 
which the two girls, who had attached themselves as attendants 
on Rachel Linton and her cousin, begged him not to let them 
be fetched away. 

"Suppose I did let them have you back," said the resident to 
them one day in their native tongue, " what would happen ? " 

One of the girls, a tall, dark, graceful creature, but with the 
protruding lips, high cheekbones, and flat distended nose of the 

Malay, rose with contracted eyebrows, took her companion, 
forced her upon her knees, and then drawing an imaginary kris 
she placed the pomt on the girl's shoulder, and struck the hilt 
with her right hand as if driving it perpendicularly down into her 
heart 

** They would kill us ¡ª so ! " she exclaimed, " and throw our 
bodies in the water to the crocodiles ! " 

The other girl shuddered, and raised her frightened eyes to 
the faces of the ladies as if imploring them to intercede ¡ª and not 
in vain. 

" But they will not trouble about you now ; " said the resident, 
tentatively. 

"Yes, yes," they both exclaimed, "they will send a naga 
and many men, but you will not let us go ? " 

" No," said the resident, quietly. " We shall not give you 
up," and he went away thoughtfully to his room, to continue 
writing the despatch he had commenced some days before. 

That same evening the two principal officers came to have a 
chat, and over their cigars Major Sandars introduced the subject 
of the doubled sentries. 

" There is no longer any need for this," he said. " Let*s see, 
Linton, it is now a week since those two fellows came. Don't 
you think, Horton, it is an unnecessary precaution ? " 

" Well, to be frank," said Captain Horton, " I do ; and I shaD 
be glad to give up our strict discipline on board." 

"What do you think, Captain Smithers?" said the resident 
to that officer, who was present 

" I cannot help agreeing with the major," he replied " I see 
no reason for these extra precautions." 

"Then I am in the minority," said the resident, smiling. 





"Look out there, gentlemen," he said, pointing through the 
open window. " What do you see ? " 

"You tell him, Smithers," said the major, "Tm too hot and 
tired to do more than breathe." 

"I can see the bright river with the lights of the steamer 
glistening on its surface; the fire-flies are darting amongst the 
trees ; the stars look soft and mellow ; altogether it is a delight- 
ful picture, that reminds one of being in some delicious summer 
retreat on the banks of dear old Father Thames." 

" Captain Smithers,*' said the resident, gravely, " it is indeed 
a beautiful picture ; the river flows peacefully on with the lights 
reflected from its bosom ; but you know as well as I, that if a 
man attempted to breast those treacherous waters, he would, 
before he had swum many yards, have been drawn down by one 
of the hideous reptiles that swarm in the Parang. That river is 
to my mind a type of the Malay feeling towards us ¡ª the intruders 
upon his soil. So little am I satisfied with what seems to me to 
be a deceitful calm, that I have serious thoughts of asking you to 
increase the sentries." 

" Nonsense, my dear Linton," said Captain Horton \ " we 
shall hear no more of the affair." 

" We shall hear more," said the resident. " Wait and see." 
The resident was right; for the next day the sultan's prin- 
cipal naga, or dragon boat, with its uncouth figure-head, was 
seen coming swiftly down the stream, propelled by about thirty 
rowers, all clad in rich yellow jackets ¡ª the royal colour ¡ª and 
nattily-made scarlet caps. Their lower limbs were bare, save 
where covered by their scarlet and yellow sarongs. The men 
rowed well together ; and as the word was passed by the sentries 
the officer on duty could plainly make out beneath the matting 
awning reaching nearly from end to end of the boat, the figures 
of the sultan and several of his officers. 

The sultan was easily distinguishable ; for while his chief 
officers strictly adhered to their native costume, he wore a gor- 
geous semi-military uniform, that had specially been built ¡ª so 
Bob Roberts termed it ¡ª for him in England. It was one mass 
of rich embroidery, crossed by a jewelled belt, bearing a sabre 
set with precious stones, and upon his head he wore a little 
Astracan fur ke/i, surmounted by an egret's plume, like a feathery 
fountain from a diamond jet. 

Orders were given for the guard to turn out, and the resi- 
dent and Major Bandars hurriedly prepared to meet their dis- 
tinguished guest, who, however, did not stop at the island, but 
went straight on to the corvette, where he was received by a 





guard of marines, the captain awaiting his visitor upon the 
quarter-deck. 

The visit was but short, for at the end of a few minutes 
Captain Horton accompanied the sultan on board the naga, 
and the long low vessel was swiftly turned, and rowed with no 
little skill to the island landing-place, where a sufficiently im- 
posing military force, under Captain Smithers, was ready to 
receive him, the sultan walking up to the residency verandah, 
between a double line of infantry with bayonets fixed. 

The eastern potentate's opal eyeballs rolled from side to 
side as, looking rather awkward in his ill-fitting European dress, 
he tried hard to emulate the dignity of his bronze followers in 
baju and sarong, each man with the handle of his kris carefully 
covered by a silken fold. 

On landing here, the sultan was followed by his kris and 
sword-bearers, each haying his appointed station behind the 
monarch, holding the weapons by the sheath, with the hilt 
against the right shoulder, so that a very respectable procession, 
full of colour and glow, was formed from the landing-place to 
the residency. 

The most incongruous part of the following was the appear- 
ance of the officer who bore an umbrella to keep the rays of 
the sun from his liege's head ; but as in place of one of the 
gorgeous, gold-fringed, scarlet- clothed sunshades generally used 
for that purpose, this was an unmistakeable London-made chaise 
gingham, with a decidedly Gampish look, it robbed its master of 
some of his dignity, though he was so busily employed in trying 
to carry his richly -jewelled sabre with the case of the English 
officers, and at the same time to show the splendid weapon to 
the best advantage, that he saw not the want of dignity in his 
umbrella, and walked awkwardly to where Mr Linton received 
him in company with Major Sandars, and such officers as could 
hurry on the uniforms they so scrupulously avoided in that 
torrid clime. 

Tom Long, who paid more attention to the embellishment 
of his person than any man in the detachment, was one of the 
officers present, and although nervous about the Sultan's visit, 
and feeling certain that it had to do with the rescue of the 
slave girls, he could not help a smile at the umbrella, and a con- 
gratulatory sensation that Bob Roberts was not present, for he 
would have been sure to laugh, when an extension of the risible 
muscles might have been taken as an insult not to be endured. 

The august visitors were received in the wide verandah on 
account of their number, where the sultan took the seat placed 





for him ; five of his principal men, including the former am- 
bassadors, stood behind him ; the rest, sword and umbrella- 
bearers, carriers of the potentate's golden betel-box and spit- 
toon, squatted down on their heels, and were as motionless as so 
many images of bronze. 

The various British officers remained with the resident, 
standing, out of respect to the sultan, whose heavy dark features 
seemed to express satisfaction ; and he at once proceeded in 
a rather forced, excited manner to inform the resident that he 
had only been having a water- excursion, and had thought hovf 
much he should like to see his good friends at the residency. 

The resident was delighted, of course, at this mark of con- 
descension, and hastened to assure the sultan of the fact. 

The latter then proceeded to announce that his grand tiger 
hunt would take place in a fortnight's time, and begged that all 
the officers would accept his invitation. 

As spokesman and interpreter, the resident assured his 
august visitor that as many as possible would be there ; when in 
addition the sultan asked that a great many soldiers might be 
sent as well, to help keep the tigers from breaking back when 
the hunt was on. 

To this, Mr Linton, by Major Sandars' permission, readily 
assented ; and then, knowing of old his visitor's taste in such 
matters, some champagne was produced. At the sight of the 
gold-foiled bottles the rajah's eyes glistened, and he readily par- 
took of a tumbler twice filled for him ; after which he walked 
into the house with the resident, as an excuse for not being 
present when his followers partook of some of the wine. 

At length, after a walk round the fort, which was willingly 
accorded to him, that he might see that the residency and its 
protectors were well on the gut vive^ the sultan took his de- 
parture, begging earnestly that all who could would come to the 
hunting expedition. Then the soldiers presented arms, and the 
little procession, gay of aspect, proceeded down to the bamboo 
landing-stage, where the visitor embarked with his following, and 
seated himself beneath the reed awning of his boat. Word was 
given, and the yellow and scarlet rowers bent to their oars, 
sending the long light naga vigorously up stream, one blaze of 
brilliant colour in the morning sun, till it disappeared round a 
verdant point about half-a-mile ahead, 

'* Well, Linton," said Major Sandars, " what do you say to it 
now?" 

" Ah, to be sure," said Captain Horton. " Isn't the stoma 

blown over?" 





*' Really, gentlemen, it looks like it," said the resident, " and 
I must confess that I am heartily glad to find that I have been 
wrong." 

"Wrong? yes," said the Major. "Those fellows are no more 
fools than we are, and knowing what they do of the strength of 
our guns, and the discipline of our men, they would as soon 
think of measuring force with us, as of flying. Smithers, 
march the men back into quarters out of this raging sunshine, 
and to-night only put on the usual guard. What shall you do, 
Horton ? ? 

" Only have the customary watch," was the reply. 

Tom Long conveyed to Bob Roberts an account of what had 
taken place, and the reduction of the guard at night ; to which 
that sage young midshipman replied, that the British Lion was 
only going to withdraw his claws within their sheaths, but the 
claws were there still ; and that it would be exceedingly uncom- 
fortable for any Malay gentleman on shore if the said B. L. was 
to put his claws out once more. 

" But I say, Tom," he exclaimed, "get the major to let you 
go to the tiger hunt." 

** Do you think you can get leave ? " said the ensign. 

" I mean to try it on, my boy. The cap is sure to be huffy, 
on account of our last affair; but nothing venture, nothing gain, 
and I mean to go, somehow or another, so tigers beware. What 
are you laughing at ? " 

'* The idea of you shooting a tiger," said Tom Long. " That's 
all" 

" I daresay I could if I tried," said Bob shortly, 

"I daresay you could," said Long, " but we'll see. We have 
to get leave first." 

" That's soon got," said Bob Roberts. " Depend upon it, I 
shall be there." 

*' And I, too." said Tom Long ; and the young fellows parted, 
each of them in secret vowing that he would have the skin 
of the tiger he meant to shoot, carefully dressed, lined with 
blue satin and scarlet cloth, and present it to Rachel Linton 
as a tribute of respect. 

But the tiger had first of all to be shot 



CHAPTER XXIX. 



HOW ALI FELL INTO A TRAP. 

Thev were ver}' delightful days at the residency for the English 
party. The heat was certainly great, but the arrangements made 
as soon as they were settled down, warded that off to a great ex- 
tent. The men enjoyed the life most thoroughly, especially as 
for sanitary reasons Doctor Bolter forbade that either the soldiers 
or the Jacks should be exposed to too much exertion. 

The days were days of unclouded sunshine as a rule, and when 
this rule was broken, the change was to a heavy thunder-storm, 
with a refreshing rain, and then the skies were once more blue. 

Fruit and flowers, and various other supplies, were brought 
now in abundance, especially since Dullah had been allowed to 
set up a trading station at the island. He monopolized the 
whole business, the various boats that came rowing straight to 
him ; but he did it all in so pleasant a manner, that no one could 
complain. To the English people he was suavity itself. His 
courtesy ¡ª his gentlemanly bearing was the talk of the whole 
place ; and regularly every morning one of his Malay slaves or 
bond-servants used to carry up and lay in the residency verandah 
a large bunch of deliciously fresh orchids, or pitcher plants^ or a 
great branch of some sweet-scented flowering shrub, for which he 
always received the ladies* thanks in a calm, courteous way that 
quite won their confidence. 

Dullah's reed hut, with its bamboo-supported verandah, be- 
came quite a favourite resort, and he very soon provided it 
¡öwith a frontage each way. In the one verandah he arranged to 
supply the resident, the ladies, and officers ; and in the other 
the soldiers and sailors, and received his supplies from the boats. 

Sometimes the ladies walked down to buy fruit, sometimes it 
was the officers ; but the two best customers were Tom Long and 
Bob Roberts, the former spending a great deal in flowers, to send 
to the residency ¡ª a very bad investment by the way ¡ª for the 
rapid rate at which they faded was astounding. Once his duty 



¡ª as he called it ¡ª done, in sending a bunch of flowers, Tom 
Long used to indulge himself with fruit. 

Bob Roberts had given up sending flowers, so he had more 
money to spend upon his noble self in fruit, and he spent it 
where he was pretty well sure to encounter Tom Long, when- 
ever he could get leave to run across to the island. 

Bob's way of addressing Dullah was neither refined nor polite, 
for it was always " Hallo, old cock," and at first DuIIah looked 
very serious ; but as soon as his aide and companion interpreted 
to him the words, he smiled and seemed perfectly satisfied, 
always greeting the young midshipman with a display of his 
white teeth, for he considered his comparison to a fighting-cock, 
of which birds the Malays are passionately fond, quite a 
compliment. 

The result was that for a small sum Bob was always sure of a 
choice durian, which he feasted upon with great gusto, while Tom 
Long came and treated himself to mangosteens. 

Dullah always behaved to the young ensign with the greatest 
politeness, that young gentleman returning it with a sort of 
courteous condescension which said plainly enough that Dullah 
was to consider himself a being of an inferior race. 

But Dullah accepted it all in the calmest manner, smilingly 
removing the malodorous durians which Bob maliciously con- 
trived to place near the seat Tom Long always occupied, and 
waiting upon the ensign as if he were a grandee of the first water. 

And here, as a matter of course, the subject of the approach- 
ing tiger hunt was discussed, Dullah, by means of his companion, 
becoming quite animated about the matter, and enlarging as to 
the number and beauty of the tigers that would be shot. 

Both Tom Long and the middy were having a fruit feast one 
day, when AH, who had been off to the steamer, and then came 

on to the island, made his appearance in search of his two 

friends, Dullah quietly disappearing into the back of his hut, to 
attend to some of the sailors who had come in, while his com- 
panion waited upon the young officers. 

Of course the tiger hunt was the principal subject of dis- 
cussion, and Ali promised to arrange to have one of the largest 
of the sultan's elephants fitted with a roomy howdah, so that they 
three could be together. 

" I can manage that," he said, "through my father, and we'll 
have a grand day." 

" But shall we get any tigers ? " asked Bob. 

" No fear of that," was the reply. " I'll contrive that we shall 

be in the best part of the hunt." 



" That will be close to the sultan, of course ? " 

All's dark eyes were raised inquiringly to the speaker's face, 
but seeing that this was not meant sarcastically, he said drily, ¡ª 

" No ; I shall arrange to be as far away from the sultan's 
elephant as I can." 

Bob looked at him keenly. 

" What, isn't he fond of tigers ? " he said sharply. 

** My father is the sultan's officer, and greatly in his confi- 
dence," said the young man quietly. "I don't think the sultan 
is very fond of hunting, though." 

Just at this moment, unseen, of course, by the three young men, 
Dullah was whispering to a rough-looking, half-naked Malay, 
into whose hands he placed a little roll of paper, which the man 
secured in the fold of his sarong, dropped into a sampan, and 
then hastily paddled to the mainland, where he plunged into the 
wood and disappeared. 

Meanwhile the three friends sat chatting, and Ali expressed his 
sorrow about the adventure the two young Englishmen had had 
with the slave girls. 

" Where are they now ? " he quietly asked. 

" Oh, Miss Linton and her cousin have quite adopted them," 
said Bob. " But surely you don't think we did wrong." 

" Speaking as the son of the Tumongong, I say yes," replied 
Ali ; " but as one who has imbibed English notions and ideas, I 
am bound to say that what you did only makes me feel more 
thoroughly how it is time we had a complete revolution in 
Parang." 

" I say," said Bob, ^* you'll get stuck up for high treason, young 

fellow, if you talk about revolution." 

*' No fear," said Ali, laughing quietly. " My ideas are pretty 
well known ; but I am too insignificant a fellow for what I say to 
be noticed. Now if it was my father ¡ª " 

" Yes ¡ª if it was your father," said Bob, '' I suppose they would 
kris him ? " 

Ah nodded, and after a quiet cigar under the trees, during 
which he complained more than once of the wrench the seizure 
by the crocodile had given to his muscles, he bade them good- 
bye, promising to have everything ready for the tiger hunt, and, 
leaping into his boat, was rowed away. 

Ali had about a mile to walk along one of the jungle paths to 
reach his father's house, and he was going along very thought- 
fully under the trees, quite alone ¡ª for he had left his men behind, 
to look after and secure the boat. It was comparatively cool in 
the shade, and he began thinking about the two young men 




he had left, and contrasting their civilized life with his. The 

savagery and barbarism by which he was surrounded disgusted 

him ; and knowing well as he did, how the sultan and the 

various rajahs of the little states lived by oppressing and grinding 

down the wretched people around, he longed for the time when 

a complete change should come about, bringing with it just laws, 

and a salutary rule for his country. His own life troubled him 

in no small degree, for he saw nothing in the future but the 

career of a Malay chief, a ruler over slaves, living a life of 

voluptuous idleness, and such an existence he looked upon with 
horror. 

Could he not enter the British service in some way ? he asked 
himself, and rise to a life of usefulness, in which he might do 
some good for the helpless, ground-down people amongst whom 
he was born ? 

Such a life, he told himself, would be worth living, and ¡ª 

What was that ? 

His hand involuntarily flew to his kris, as he heard a rustle 
amidst the tangled cane just ahead, and he advanced cautiously 
lest it should be some beast of prey, or one of the great serpents 
that had their existence amidst the dense undergrowth. 

There it was again; a quick sharp rustle amidst the trees, 
as of something hastily escaping, and his hand fell to his side, 
and he watched eagerly in advance, not hearing a cat-like 
step behind him, as a swarthy Malay came in his tracks, 
sprang upon the young man's back, and pinioned his arms in an 
instant. 

Ali uttered a hoarse cry, and strove to draw his kris, but the 
effort was vain. Three more Malays darted from their hiding- 
places, and in a few minutes he was securely bound, with a por- 
tion of his sarong thrust into his mouth to keep him from crying 
for help ; another Malay, who had been pulling a long rattan 
on ahead to imitate the sound of an escaping animal, coming 
from his hiding-place and smiling at the success of the ruse. 

** What does it mean ?" Ali asked himself; but he was puzzled 
and confused, and his captors gave him no opportunity for further 
thought, but hurried him right away into the depths of the jungle 
through a long narrow winding track that was little used. 

" Why, this leads to the sultan's old house, where the inchees 
were killed 1 " thought Ali. " Surely they are not going to kill 
me?" 

A shudder ran through him, and a strange sense of horror 
seemed to freeze his limbs as he was half thrust half carried 
Along through the jungle, his captors having at times to use 



" That will be close to the sultan, of course ? " 

All's dark eyes were raised inquiringly to the speaker's face, 
but seeing that this was not meant sarcastically, he said drily, ¡ª 

" No ; I shall arrange to be as far away from the sultan's 
elephant as I can." 

Bob looked at him keenly. 

" What, isn't he fond of tigers ? " he said sharply. 

** My father is the sultan's officer, and greatly in his confi- 
dence," said the young man quietly. "I don't think the sultan 
is very fond of hunting, though." 

Just at this moment, unseen, of course, by the three young men, 
Dullah was whispering to a rough-looking, half-naked Malay, 
into whose hands he placed a little roll of paper, which the man 
secured in the fold of his sarong, dropped into a sampan, and 
then hastily paddled to the mainland, where he plunged into the 
wood and disappeared. 

Meanwhile the three friends sat chatting, and Ali expressed his 
sorrow about the adventure the two young Englishmen had had 
with the slave girls. 

" Where are they now ? " he quietly asked. 

" Oh, Miss Linton and her cousin have quite adopted them," 
said Bob. " But surely you don't think we did wrong." 

" Speaking as the son of the Tumongong, I say yes," replied 
Ali ; " but as one who has imbibed English notions and ideas, I 
am bound to say that what you did only makes me feel more 
thoroughly how it is time we had a complete revolution in 
Parang." 

" I say," said Bob, ^* you'll get stuck up for high treason, young 

fellow, if you talk about revolution." 

*' No fear," said Ali, laughing quietly. " My ideas are pretty 
well known ; but I am too insignificant a fellow for what I say to 
be noticed. Now if it was my father ¡ª " 

" Yes ¡ª if it was your father," said Bob, '' I suppose they would 
kris him ? " 

Ah nodded, and after a quiet cigar under the trees, during 
which he complained more than once of the wrench the seizure 
by the crocodile had given to his muscles, he bade them good- 
bye, promising to have everything ready for the tiger hunt, and, 
leaping into his boat, was rowed away. 

Ali had about a mile to walk along one of the jungle paths to 
reach his father's house, and he was going along very thought- 
fully under the trees, quite alone ¡ª for he had left his men behind, 
to look after and secure the boat. It was comparatively cool in 
the shade, and he began thinking about the two young men 




with creepers, which had formed a new thatch in place of the 
old attap top. The bamboos that formed the floor were slippery 
here and there with damp moss and fungus, and in several places 
they were rotted away ; but there was plenty to afford a fair space 
of flooring, and in a momentary glance Ali saw that the inner or 
women's room of the house was dry, and not so much ruined as 
the place where he stood. 

" Did they kris the poor prisoners here?" he asked himself; 
and then his thoughts flew to the bright river upon which his 
boat had so often skimmed ; to the clean, trim corvette, with its 
bright paint, smart sailors, and Bob Roberts, the merry, cheery 
young English lad. Then he thought of the residency, with the 
sweet graceful ladies, the pleasant officers, always so frank and 
hospitable ; of Tom Long, whom he liked in spite of the ensign's 
pride and stand-offishness ; and lastly he asked himself what 
they would think of him for not keeping faith with them about 
the hunt, and whether they would ever know that he had been 
treacherously krissed in that out-of-the-way place. 

A grim smile crossed his lip as he wished that he might be 
thrown afterwards in the river, and his body float down to be 
seen by the English people, so that they might know why he had 
stopped away. 

And then a thrill ran through him, for a couple of his captors 
seized him, and in the dim green light of the place, with a few 
thin pencils of sunshine striking straight through like silver 
threads from roof to floor, he saw a third man draw his deadly 
kris. 



CHAPTER XXX. 



HOW PRIVATE GRAY PROVED SUSPICIOUS. 

Adam Gray left the men in the mess-room that night, chatting 
about the coming tiger-hunt, and wondering who would be 
selected to accompany the expedition. He could not help think- 
ing, as he shouldered his rifle, and was marched off by a sergeant 
with half-a-dozen more, to relieve guard, that he should like to 
be one of the party himself. In happy bygone days he had been 
fond of sport, and in a trip to North America were well-remem- 
bered perils and pleasant adventures. And now this talk of the 
tiger hunt had roused in him a strong interest, and set him 
recalling days when he was very different to what he was now. 

" It's no good to sigh," he said to himself, and the measured 
tramp, tramp of the marching men sounded solemn and strange 
in the darkness, rousing him once more to a sense of his 
position. 

" If I'm to go, I go," he said bitterly, " That will be as my 
superiors please ; and if I do go, it will not be as a hunter." 

In spite of himself, however, as soon as guard had been 
relieved, and he was left in charge of a post not far from 
Dullah's hut, his thoughts went back to his early career, and he 
grew at times quite excited as he compared it with the life he 
was living now. 

Then his thoughts wandered to the residency, and from thence 
back to the day when he was bitten by the sea snake, and 
lay there upon the deck tended by Miss Linton. 

These thoughts agitated him, so that he set off pacing briskly 
up and down for a couple of hours, and then, his brain calmed 
by the exercise, he stood still under the shadow of a great palm, 
with whose trunk, as he stood back close to it, his form so 
assimilated in the darkness that at a couple of yards distance he 
was invisible. 

His post was close to the river, so close that he walked upon 
the very edge of the bank, which was in places undermined by 




the swift current. This post had been cleared from the thick 
jungle. It was but a narrow piece, some two yards wide, and 
forty long, and this it was his duty to pace during his long 
watch, to guard that side of the island from a landing foe. 

Midnight had passed, and all was very still. There was a splash 
from time to time in the stream, telling of the movement of some 
reptile or great fish, and now and then, from the far-distant parts 
of the jungle across the water, he could hear the cry of some 
wild beast. Now and then he watched the fire-flies scintillating 
amidst the leaves, and thought of how different life was out in 
this far-off tropic land to that in dear old England. 

He had been thinking quite an hour without stirring ; but 
though his memory straryed here and there, his eyes were watch- 
ful, and he scanned from time to time the broad smooth surface 
of the stream in search of passing boats. 

At last he fancied he detected something dark moving along, 
but it went by so smoothly that it might have been the trunk of 
some tree, or even the back of a great crocodile, for there was 
no splash of oars. 

He had almost forgotten the incident, when he started 
slightly and listened, thmking he could hear a whispering, and 

this was repeated. 

He listened intently, but though he felt sure that he could 
hear voices, still that need not mean danger, for sound passes so 
easily across the water, that the noise might have come from down 
lower in the island, or even from the shore across the river. 

The whispering ceased, and then he listened in vain for a 
time, and at last he was just thinking of pacing up and down 
once more, when certainly there was a faint splash, and on look- 
ing in the direction he could see on the dark water what seemed 
like a dim shadow gliding along. 

It might have been a boat or the shadow of a boat, he could 

not be sure. In fact, there were moments when he doubted 
whether it was not some ocular illusion brought about by too 
intently gazing through the gloom. 

And there he stood, hesitating as to whether he should fire 

and give the alarm. 

But the next moment he reasonably enough asked himself 
why he should do so, for there was nothing alarming in the 
fact of a tiny sampan gliding over the river. It might be 
only a fisherman on his way to some favourite spot, or perhaps 
one of the Malays bound up the river, or possibly after all 

a mere deception. 

There seemed to be nothing to merit the alarm being raised, 





and he stood watching once more the spot where the boat had 
disappeared. Still he did not resume his march up and down, 
but recalled the night of the attack, and began to consider how 
easy it would be for a crafty enemy to land and take them by 
surprise some gloomy night. Dark skinned, and lithe of action 
as cats, they could easily surprise and kris the sentries. In his 
own case, for instance, what would be easier than for an enemy 
to lurk on the edge of the thick jungly patch by which the path 
ran, and there stab him as he passed ? 

** It would be very easy," he thought. " Yes ; and if I stand 
here much longer I shall begin to think that I am doing so be- 
cause I dare not walk beside that dark piece of wood Still I 
dare do it, and I will." 

As if out of bravado, he immediately began to pace his 
allotted post once more, and he had hardly gone half way when 
a sharp sound upon his left made him bring his piece down to 
the present, and wait with bayonet fixed what he looked upon as 
a certain attack. 

Again he hesitated about firing and giving the alarm, for fear 
of incurring ridicule and perhaps reprimand. He knew in his 
heart that he was nervous and excitable, being troubled lest any 
ill should befall the occupants of the residency, and being in 
such an excited state made him ready to imagine everything he 
saw to mean danger. 

So he stood there, ready to repel any attack made upon him, 
and as he remained upon his guard the rustling noise increased, 
and be momentarily expected to see the leaves parted and some 
dark figure rush out; but still he was kept in suspense, for 
nothing appeared. 

At last he came to the conclusion that it was some restless 
bird or animal disturbed by his presence, and told himself that 
the noise made was magnified by his own fancies ; and, rather 
glad that he had not given the alarm, he continued to march up 
and down, passing to and fro in close proximity to a dark Malay. 
whose hand clasped a wavy, dull-bladed kris, that the holder 
seemed waiting to thrust into his chest the moment an opportunity 
occurred, or so soon as the sentry should have given the alarm. 

At last the weary watch came to an end, for the tramp of the 
relief was heard, and Sergeant Lund marched up his little party 
of men, heard Gray's report of the rustling noise, and the dark 
shadow on the river ; said " Humph ! " in a grufif way ; a fresh 
man was placed on sentry, and Adam Gray was marched back 
with the other tired men who were picked up on the round into 
the little fort 



CHAPTER XXX L 



HOW SOME COULD GO AND SOME MUST STAY. 

The day of the tiger hunt was at last close at hand. A vast 
deal of communication and counter communication had taken 
place with the sultan, whose people were making great prepara- 
tions for the event. 

The sultan was constantly sending messengers, and asking 
that stores might be given him with plenty of ammunition. 
Not, though, in any mean begging spirit, for whenever a couple 
of his chiefs came with some request they were accompanied by 
a train of followers bearing presents ¡ª food, supplies of the finest 
rice, sugar-cane, and fruit ; buifaloes and poultry ; slabs of tin, 
little bags of gold dust, specimens of the native work ; an 
abundance, in short, of useful and valuable things, all of which 
were accepted ; though there was a grim feeling in the mind of 
Mr Linton that pretty well everything had been taken by force 
from some of the sultan's miserable subjects. 

Still the policy was, to be on the best of terms wtth the sultan, 
and to hope to introduce reforms in his rule by degrees. The 
resident took the old school copy-book moral into consideration, 
that example was better than precept, and knowing full well that 
any sweeping code of rules and regulations would produce dis- 
taste, certain hatred, and perhaps a rising against the English 
rule, he determined to introduce little improvements by degrees, 
each to be,|he hoped, tiny seeds from which would grow grand 
and substantial trees. 

The tiger hunt was being prepared for evidently with childlike 
delight, and instead of its being a few hours' expedition, it proved 
that it was to be an affair of a week. Tents were to be taken, 
huts to be formed, and quite a large district swept of the danger- 
ous beasts. For as the sultan informed the English officers, the 
tigers had been unmolested for quite two years, and saving one 
or two taken in pitfalls, they had escaped almost scot free. The 
consequence of this was, that several poor Malays had been 




carried off from their rice fields, and at least a dozen unfortunate 
Chinamen from the neighbourhood of some tin mines a few miles 
away. 

" I never meant to enter into such an extensive affair, gentle- 
men," said the resident to Major Sandars and Captain Horton 
after dinner one day, when they had all been entertained at the 
mess-room. " I almost think we ought to draw back before it is 
too late." 

" Well, I don*t know," said Major Sandars. " It will please 
the sultan if we take a lot of men, and this is rather a stagnating 
life. I frankly tell you I should be very glad of the outing, and 
I am sure it would do good to the men." 

" I quite agree with you, Sandars," said Captain Horton ; and 
Bob Roberts and Tom Long, who were opposite one another at 
the bottom of the table, exchanged glances. " I want a change, 
and I should be glad to give my lads a turn up the country, 
Driirs all very well, but it gets wearisome. What do you say, 
Smithers ?" 

" I must confess to being eager to go,*' was the reply. " It 
seems to me the only gentleman who does not care for the trip 
is Mr Linton." 

" My dear fellow, you never made a greater mistake in your 
life," said Mr Linton, laughing. " Nothing would please me 
better than to be off for a couple of months, with a brace of 
good rifles, and an elephant, with plenty of beaters. I could 
even manage to exist for three months without reading a report, 
or writing a despatch." 

Here there was a hearty laugh, and Mr Linton went on, ¡ª 

"There is one voice silent ¡ª the most important one, it seems 
to me. Come, doctor, what do you say ? may we all go up the 
country and live in tents ? *' 

" Hah ! " said Doctor Bolter, " now you have me on the hip. 
I want to go myself, horribly." 

" Ha, ha, ha, ha !" laughed every one in chorus. 

" I want to see those black monkeys like our friend Mr Bob 
Roberts has for a pet. I say I want to see them in their native 
state. I want to get a specimen of the pink rhinoceros, and 
some of the Longicoms, Ny?nphaiis Calydonia is to be found 
here, and I must shoot a few specimens of Cymbirhynchiis 
Macrorhynchusy besides supplying my horius siccus with a com- 
plete series of Nepentlies^^ 

" For goodness' sake, doctor, don't go on like that," cried 
Captain Horton. " If you want to be cheerful to that extent, give 
us a recitation in pure Malay.*' 





" Ah, you may all laugh," said the doctor ; " but I'm not 
ashamed of being a modest naturalist" 

" Modest I " said Major Sandars. " Do you call that modest, 
to talk big like that ? But come, tell us, may we go safely ? " 

"That's what I can't quite settle," said the doctor. " I don't 
know what to say to you* A week's hunting picnic would be 
very nice/ 

** Splendid," said everybody. 

" And you'd have a good supply of tents? I can't have my 
men sleeping in the open air." 

''Abundance of everything," said Major Sandars. "Regular 
commissariat stores ¡ª mess tent, and the rest of it.'* 

" Stop a minute," said the doctor, " not so fast. You see, 
what I'm afraid of is fever." 

" We all are," said Captain Horton. " Never mind, take a 
barrel and keep a strong solution of quinine always on tap for 
us. Now then, may we go ? You see if it was on duty we 
shouldn't study a moment, but as it's a case of pleasuring ¡ª " 

" And keeping up good relations with the sultan," said the 
resident. 

" And freeing the country from a pest," said Captain Horton. 

" Tigers are pests enough," said the doctor, " but intermittent 
or jungle fever is to my mind the pest of the country." 

*' Yes, of course, doctor," said the resident; "but what do 
you think, may we go ? " 

The doctor sat tapping the table with a dessert knife. 

** Will you all promise me faithfully not to drink a drop of 
water that has not been filtered ? " he said. 

" Yes, yes, yes," came from all down the table. 

" I'll promise, doctor, not to drink any water at all," said Bob 
Roberts in a low voice, that was heard, though, by the doctor. 

" It strikes me, young gentleman, that you won't get anything 
stronger," he said. "Well, gentlemen, if you'll all promise to 
abide by my rules, I'll s^y yes; you may go. ^* 

A long quiet conversation was afterwards held, and finally it 
was decided that- quite half the men should go, and on the eve 
of the expedition the final preparations had been made, tents and 
stores had been sent ashore ready for a start at daybreak. 

The river had been scoured by the corvette's boats, and no 
trace of Rajah Gantang's prahus found ; in fact, nothing had 
been heard of him or them for many days ; and all being 
esteemed satisfactory and safe on that score, what remained to 
do was to settle who should stay and protect the residency and 
the corvette, and who should go. 





As far as the men were concerned, this was soon settled ; for 
the order was given to fall in, and they were soon ranged in line, 
every man anxious in the extreme as to his fate. The next 
order was for the even numbered to take two paces back, and the 
next for the rear-rank men to fall out ; they were the lucky ones, 
and in a high state of delight. 

With the officers it was more difficult However, that was 
soon settled. Captain Horton said that he should go; and gave 
the corvette in charge of Lieutenant Johnson. Major Sandars 
followed his example by appointing Captain Smithers to the task 
of taking command of the fort ; and to his great disgust Tom 
Long found that he was not to be of the select. 

The resident had not intended to go, but so pressing a request 
that he would come had arrived from the sultan, that he felt 
bound to make one of the party. On the eve of the start the 
principal talk was of the qualities and powers of the various 
rifles and shot guns that had been brought out to be cleaned and 
oiled. 

Tom Long was solacing himself out in the open air with a 
strong rank cigar that had been given him by a brother officer, 
and very poorly it made him feel. But he put that all down to 
the major's account for depriving him of his treat. 

** I'll be even with him, though," he said, breaking out into the 
habit of talking aloud. ** I won't forget it." 

The night was very dark and starless, and he stood leaning 
up against a tree, when he heard the splash of oars from the 
landing-place, a short sharp order, and then the rattling of a ring- 
bolt 

" Some one from the steamer, I suppose," he growled. " Gun 
borrowing, I'll be bound. They don't have mine, whoever wants 
it" 

" Here you, sir," said a familiar voice, as a figure came up 
through the darkness. " Where's Major Sandars ¡ª at the officers* 
quarters or the residency? Do you hear! Why don't you 
speak ? " 

" That path leads to the officers* quarters, Ivir Robert Roberts, 
and the other leads, as you well know, to the residency. Now 
go and find out for yourself, and don't air your salt-junk bluster 
on shore." 

" Salt-junk bluster be bothered," said Bob sharply. *' How 
the dickens was I to know it was you standing stuck up against 
that tree like two tent poles in a roll of canvass ? Here, I've 
come from the skipper to see if the major's got any spare leggings, 
for fear of the noble captain getting any thorns in his legs." 




" Hang the captain i" growled Tom. 

" Hang the major, then !" said Bob sharply. 

** You may hang them both, if you like," said Tont 

" I should like to kris them all over, till they looked like 
skewered chickens ready for the spit," said Bob. " I say, ain't 
it an awful shame ? " 

" Shame, yes," said Tom Long, slightly mollified by his com- 
panion's sympathy. " I don't see why one of us two should be 
left out of the party. It isn't much pleasure we get." 

" No," said Bob sharply ; " but I think if one of us was to go 
it ought to have been this young person." 

" Well, but you are going, aren't you ?" said Tom Long. 

"Not I," said Bob. ^^Vm second officer onboard H.M.S. 
'Startler ' till they come back, that's all." 

'*But, my dear Bob, I thought you were going. Old Dick, 
who was ashore an hour ago, told me you were." 

" Then old Dick told you a cram," said Bob. " He said you 
were going, though." 

" I'll kick old Dick first time I see him," cried Tom Long. 
" Fm not going. Smithers and I are to be in charge of the 
fort." 

" You are not going?" cried Bob incredulously. 

"Nol" 

? Oh, I am glad." 

? Thanky," said Tom. 

" No, I don't mean that," said Bob. " I mean I'm glad I'm 
not going, now you are not." 

" I say, Bob, do you mean that ? " said Tom Long excitedly, 
and dropping all his stiffness. 

" Of course I do," said Bob. " What's the fun of going with- 
out a friend ? " 

" Bob, you're a regular little brick," said Tom Long. ?* Shake 
hands. 'Pon my word I shall end by liking you." 

Bob shook hands, and laughed. 

" Oh, I say, though," he exclaimed- " Poor old Ali I Won't 
he be cut up, just?" 

" Yes, he won't Uke it," said Tom Long thoughtfully. ^ And he 
was to have a big elephant all ready for us." 

" Yes," said Bob. "But I say, I wonder we haven't heard 
firom him since that day he was here." 

"Yes, he might have sent a message of some kind." 

" He's been up the country with a butterfly net to catch an 
elephant for us," said Bob, laughing. 

" And now he'U have it all to himself," said Tohl 




"I'll bet half a rupee that he don't/' said Bob. 

" Oh, yes, he will," said Tom. " I rather like him, though. 
He isn't a bad sort of nigger." 

" Don't call the fellows niggers,^* said Bob impatiently; " they 
don't like it." 

" Then they mustn't call us giaours and dogs,^^ said Tom im- 
patiently. 

" Look here," cried Bob, " I must go on after these leggings 
for the skipper ; but, I say, Tom, as I said before, I'll bet half a 
rupee that Ali don't go to the hunt when he finds we are to stay.'* 

-* Stuff ! " 

" Well, it may be stuff ; but you see if he don't stop behind, 
and, as soon as they are all off, come across here." 

" I wish he would," said Tom, "It'll be dull enough." 

" If he does, we'll have a good turn at the fish/' said Bob. 
?* Good night, if I don't see you again." 

" I say," said Bob, turning round and speaking out of the 
darkness. 

"Well?" 

" I don't wish 'em any harm ; but I hope they won't see a 
blessed tiger all the time they're away." 

" So do I/' said Tom. " Good night ! " 

"Good night!" And Bob found the major; borrowed the 

pair of canvas leggings, with which he returned to the boat, and 

was rowed back to the corvette, where he had the pleasure of 

going over the captain's shooting gear, and helping him to fill 

his cartridge cases, and the like. 

" You'll have to go on a trip yourself, Roberts, by-and-by," 
said the captain. 

"Thankye, sir," said Bob. " When, sir, please?" 

"When the soreness about rescuing those slave girls has 

worn off, Master Bob Roberts," said the captain, smiling. " I 

can't afford to have one of my most promising young officers 

krissed." 

" All soft soap and flam," said Bob to himself, as he went out 

on deck. " Promising officer, indeed. Well, he's a promising 

officer, and I'll keep him to his promise, too ; and old Ali, and 

Tom, and I will have another day to ourselves." 



CHAPTER XXXIL 



HOW MR LINTON BELIEVED IN A PRECIPICE. 

It was a grand sight, and a stranger to the scene might have 
imagined that a little army was about to set off for the conquest 
of some petty king, instead of to attack the striped tiger in his 
stronghold. 

The two parties from the steamer and the island were ashore 
before daybreak, to find an imposing gathering of the sultan's 
people coming down to meet them. There were over thirty 
elephants, large and small, with their attendants, and the beasts 
were furnished with showy cloths under their rattan basket 
liowdahs. 

The sultan was there in English dress ; and his chiefs made 
a gaudy muster, wearing showy silken sarongs and bajus, as if it 
were to be a review day instead of a hunting trip, while the fol- 
lowing, to the extent of several hundreds, were all armed with 
spear and kris. Here and there a showily clad Malay was seen 
to be armed with a gun or rifle, but for the most part their means 
of offence were confined to the native weapons. 

The meeting was most cordial; but the sultan and his fol- 
lowers seemed somewhat taken aback to see the various officers 
in rough sporting costume, and the soldiers and sailors in any- 
thing but stiff, ordinary trim. 

One thing, however, had been rigidly adhered to. Every man 
was well-armed, and carried a good supply of ball cartridge. 

The sun was shining brightly, when at last the hunting party 
was duly marshalled, and moved off right through the jungle by 
a well-beaten path, one which took them straight away from the 
river ; and very effective the procession looked, with the great 
lumbering elephants moving so silently along, the gaily-dressed 
Malays forming bright patches of colour amidst the clean white 
duck frocks and trousers of the sailors, and the dull grey of the 
soldiers' linen tunics. There was, of course, fraternization, and 
a disposition on the part of the Malays to freely mix with the 




Englishmen then ; but the order had been that a certain amount 
of formation was to be maintained, so that, if necessary, the 
men might be ready to gather at any time round their officers. 
Not that any difficulty was apprehended, but it was felt to be 
better to keep up discipline, even when only engaged upon a 
shooting trip, though every act that might be interpreted by the 
Malays into a want of confidence was carefully avoided. 

The morning was sufficiently young as yet to enable a good 
march to be made without difficulty ; but as the sun began to 
make his power felt wherever there was an opening amidst the 
trees, a halt was called in a beautiful park-like patch of ground, 
with huge spreading trees sufficient to shelter double their 
number. Here a capital lunch was served by the sultan's 
cooks, one that no doubt an English c^ief would have looked 
upon with contempt, but which, after a long morning tramp 
through the steaming heat of the jungle, was delightful. 

Every one was in excellent spirits, the sultan having set 
aside a great deal of his formality, and smiling apparently with 
pleasure as he gazed around at the gratified countenances of his 
guests. 

Then followed a siesta while the sun was at its greatest 
height, Doctor Bolter impressing upon all the officers that a 
quiet rest during the heat of the day was the one thing needful 
to make them bear the exertion of the journey; and then, as soon 
as he saw every one following his advice, he arranged his pug- 
garee around his pith helmet, put some cartridges in his 
pocket, and went off into the jungle to shoot specimens, with 
no little success. 

Ten miles were got over that evening, and then camp was 
pitched on the edge of an opening, close by a curious rounded 
mountain, which towered up in front of the setting sun, looking 
massive and grand with its smooth outline thrown up, as it were, 
against the saffron sky. 

The scene was lovely in the extreme, and every touch given by 
the hunting party seemed to add thereto, for white tents sprang 
up like magic against the dark green foliage ; fires began to 
twinkle here and there ; the large mess tent, that had been 
carried by one of the elephants, was well lit with lamps ; and 
a white cloth spread with ample provisions and no few luxuries, 
ornamented by the freshly-cut flowers which grew in profusion, 
as if waiting to be cut by the servants, added no little to the 
brightness of the interior. 

Outside all was apparently picturesque confusion, though in 
reality everything was in due order, from the men's tents to the 




ranging ot the elephants, who, relieved ot their loads, were 
quietly lifting up great bunches of grass and tucking them into 
their capacious jaws. Over all rose a loud hum of many voices, 
and soon to this was added the click of knives and forks from 
the English mess and the rattle of plates. Amongst the Malays 
great leaves did duty for the latter, and all was quieter. 

Later on, watch was set, the sxiltan and his officers smiling 
gravely at the precautions taken by the English, assuming 
though that it was against the wild beasts of the jungle, and 
hastening to assure all concerned that they need have no fear, 
for no tiger would approach so busy a camp, especially as there 
were fires burning, which would be kept up all night 

" Let them think it's the tigers, and that we are afraid of 
them, if they like," said the doctor ; " but I wouldn't slacken dis- 
cipline in the slightest degree. Keep everything going just as if 
we were going through an enemy's country." 

" I support that motion,** said the resident quietly. 

" But why ? " said Captzun Horton, ** Surely we may relax a 

little now." 

" No, Doctor Bolter is right," said the major, nodding. "It's 

a nuisance, Horton, of course, but you would not let your ship go 

without a good watch being set ? " 

" Well ¡ª no," said the captain thoughtfully, " I suppose not. 
We should keep that up even if we were in dock. Thank good- 
ness, though, I liave not any watch to keep to-night, for I'm tired 
as a dog." 

" It has been a tiring day," said Major Sandars, " I wonder 
how Smithers is getting on. I hope he's taking care of the 
ladies." 

" Yes," said Mr Linton gravely, " I hope he is taking care of 
the ladies." 

" They're in good hands," said Captain Horton. " Johnson is 
a stemish fellow, and," he added laughing, " if anv dangerous 
parties go near the island, Mr Midshipman Roberts will blow 
them right out of the water." 

"Yes," said Major Sandars, indulging in a low chuckle, "he 
and Mr Ensign Long between them would be a match for all the 
rajahs on the river." 

Mr Linton was the only one who did not smile, for just then, 
like a foreboding cloud, the dark thought came across his mind 
that it would be very, very terrible if advantage were taken by 
the Malays of the absence of so large a portion of the force ; and 
try how he would to sleep that night, the thought kept intruding, 
that after all they were doing wrong in trusting themselves with 




the Malay sultan, who might, under his assumption of hospitality, 
be hatching some nefarious scheme against them all. 

Through the thin canvas walls of the tent he could hear the low 
breathing of some of his friends, the snort of some elephant, and 
close by him there was the monotonous hum of the mosquitoes, 
trying hard to find a way through the fine gauze of the net ; now 
and then came too an impatient muttering of a sleeper, or the 
distant cry of some creature in the jungle. 

The only solacing thing he heard in the heat of those weary 
sleepless hours was the steady beat of some sentry's pace, and 
the click of his arms as he changed his piece from shoulder to 
shoulder. 

He was the only unquiet one, for the others fell asleep almost 
on the instant, and several of them gave loud signs of their 
peaceful occupation. 

At last Mr Linton could bear it no longer, and rising, he went 
softly to the tent door and peeped out, to pause there, wondering 
at the beauty of the scene, as the moon was just peering down 
over the jungle trees, and filling the camp with silvery light and 
black shadows. What was that glint of some arm ? 

He smiled at his uneasiness directly after, for there was the 
sharp steady beat of feet, a sergeant's guard came out of the 
black shadow, and he saw them relieve sentry, the glint he had 
seen being the moonbeams playing upon tke soldier's piece. 

He went back and lay down once more, feeling relieved, and 
falling off into a restful sleep, little thinking how that deadly peril 
was indeed hovering round the island he had left, and that he 
and his companions were going to march on and on, not to 
encounter tigers alone, but men even more cruel in their nature, 
and quite as free from remorse when dealing with those^whom 
they looked upon as dogs. 



CHAPTER XXXIII. 



PRIVATE GRAY HAS HIS ORDERS. 



The men on the corvette, with those who rowed back the empty 
boats, gave a loud cheer, which was answered from the island, as 
the hunting party moved off in procession. 

" Give them another, my lads," cried Bob Roberts excitedly ; 
and the sailors, with whom he was a special favourite, responded 
heartily. 

"Just another, my lads, to show them we are not a bit 
envious," cried Bob; and then another prolonged "Hurrah!" 
went up in the morning skies, the middy shouting with the best 
of them ; and it was amusing to see Bob's calm, consequential 
ways as he stood there, completely ignoring Lieutenant Johnson, 
and taking upon himself the full command of the ship. 

He glanced up aloft, and his look threatened an order to man 
the yards, when the lieutenant interfered. 

** I think that will do, Mr Roberts," he said quietly, and Bob 
was taken rather aback. 

** Yes, of course, sir," he said, " but the men are already loaded 
with a cheer, hadn't they better let it off? " 

lieutenant Johnson gazed full in the lad*s face, half sternly, half 
amused at his quaint idea, and then nodded. Then there was 
another stentorian cheer, and what seemed like its echo from the 
island, when Bob smiled his satisfaction, strutting about the 
quarter-deck as he exclaimed, ¡ª 

" We can beat the soldiers hollow at cheering, sir, can't we ? " 

" Yes, Mr Roberts," said the lieutenant quietly ; and then to 
the warrant officer near him, " Pipe down to breakfast, Mr Law ; 
the men must want it" 

" I know one man who wants his," said Bob, half aloud ; and 
then he stared wistfully after the tail of the departing expedition, 
as the sun glinted on the spears, and a very dismal sensation of 
disappointment came over him. 



^You'll make a good officer some day, Roberts/' said the 
lieutenant, and Bob started, for he did not know he was so near. 

"Thank you, sir ¡ª for the compHment," said Bob. 

" But at present, my lad, you do imitate the bantam cock to 
such an extent that it irritates grown men." 

" Do I, sir ? " said Bob. 

*' You do indeed, my lad," said the lieutenant kindly. 

" But I don't want to, sir, for nothing worries me more than 
to see Ensign Long coming all that strut and show off." 

" Well, we won't quarrel about it, Roberts," said Lieutenant 
Johnson kindly. " You'll grow out of it in time. As it is, I'm 
captain for a few days, and you are my first lieutenant. So first 
lieutenant," he continued, clapping the lad on the shoulder, 
" come down and breakfast with me in the cabin, and we'll talk 
matters over." 

Bob flushed with pleasure, and if the lieutenant had asked 
him to jump overboard just then, 01 stand on his head on the 
main truck. Bob would have tried to oblige him. 

As it was, however, he followed his officer into the cabin, and 
made a hearty breakfast 

" I tell you what," said the lieutenant, who was a very quiet 
stem young officer ¡ª and he stopped short 

" Yes, captain," said Bob. 

Lieutenant Johnson smiled. 

" I tell you what," he said again, " nothing would give me 
greater pleasure than for Mr Rajah Gantang to bring down his 
prahus some time to-day, Lieutenant Roberts. I could blow that 
fellow out of the water with the greatest pleasure in life." 

" Captain Johnson," said Bob, solemnly, " I could blow him 
in again with greater pleasure, for I haven*t forgotten my swim 
for hfe." 

" You feel quite a spite against him then, Roberts ? " 

** Spite's nothing to it," said Bob. " Didn't he and his people 
force me, a harmless, unoffending young fellow ¡ª " 

" As ever contrived to board a prahu," said the lieutenant. 

"Ah, well, that wasn't my doing," said Bob. " I was ordered 
to do my duty, and tried to do it. That was no reason why 
those chicory-brown rascals should cause me to be pitched into 
the river to the tender mercies of the crocodiles, who, I believe, 
shed tears because they couldn't catch me." 

" Well, Roberts," said the lieutenant, " you need not make 
yourself uncomfortable, nor set up the bantam cock hackles round 
your neck, and you need not go to the grindstone to sharpen your 
spurs, for we shall not have the luck to see anything of the rajah, 



who by this time knows that it is his best policy to keep out of 
the way. Will you take any more breakfast ? " 

"¡ö No, thank you, sir," said Bob, rising, for this was a hint to go 
about his business ; and he went on deck. 

" Momin*, sir," said old Dick, pulling at his forelock, and 
giving one leg a kick out behind. 

" Morning, Dick. Don't you wish you were along with the 
hunting party ? " 

Old Dick walked to the side, sprinkled the water with a little 
tobacco juice, and came back. 

" That's the same colour as them Malay chaps, sir," he said, 
" nasty dirty beggars." 

" Dirty, Dick ? Why they are always bathing and swimming." 

" Yes," said Dick in a tone of disgust, " but they never use no 
soap." 

" Well, what of that ? " said Bob " You don't suppose that 
makes any difference? " 

*' Makes no difference ? " said the old sailor ; " why it makes all 
the difference, sir. When I was a young 'un, my old mother used 
to lather the yalier soap over my young head till it looked like 
a yeast tub in a baker's cellar. Lor' a mussy ! the way she used 
to shove the soap in my eyes and ears and work her fingers 
round in 'em, was a startler. She*d wash, and scrub, and rasp 
away, and then swab me dry with a rough towel ¡ª and it was a 
rough 'un, mind yer ¡ª till I shone again. Why, I was as white as 
a lily where I wasn't pink ; and a young lady as come to stay at 

the squire's, down in our parts, blessed if she didn't put me in a 
picter she was painting, and call me a village beauty. It's the 
soap as does it, and a rale love of cleanliness. Bah, look at 'em ! 
They're just about the colour o' gingerbread ; while look at me !" 

Bob look at the old fellow searchingly, to see if he was joking, 
and then finding that he was perfectly sincere, the middy burst 
into a hearty roar of laughter. 

For long years of exposure to sun and storm had burned and 
stained Dick into a mahogany brown, warmed up with red of the 
richest crimson. In fact, a Malay had rather the advantage of 
him in point of colour. 

** Ah, you may laugh," he growled. " I dessay, sir, you thinks 
it's werry funny ; but if you was to go and well soap a young 
Malay he*d come precious different, I can tell you.*' 

"But somebody did try to wash a blackamoor white," said 
Bob. "Tom Hood says so, in one of his books." 

" Well, and did they get him white, sir ? " asked Dick. 

" No, I think not," said Bob. " I almost forget, but I think 
lliey gave him such a bad cold that he died." 



'* That Tom Hood ¡ª was he any relation o' Admiral Hood, 
sir ? " 

"No, I think not, Dick." 

** Then he wasn't much account being a landsman, I s'ppse, 
and he didn't understand what he was about. He didn't use 
plenty o' soap." 

*^ Oh yes, he did, Dick j because I remember he says, a lady 
gave some: 

"Mrs Hope, 
A bar of soap." 

" Then they didn't lather it well," said Dick decisively. " And 
it shows how ignorant they was when they let's the poor chap 
ketch cold arter it, and die. Why, bless your 'art, Mr Roberts, 
sir^ if my old mother had had the job, he'd have had no cold. 
He'd have come out red hot, ail of a glow, like as I used, and 
as white as a lily, or she'd have had all his skin off him." 

" And so you really believe you could wash these Malay chaps 
white ? " 

" I do, sir. I'd holystone *em till they was." 

" It would be a long job, Dick," said Bob laughing. " But I 
say, don't you wish you had gone with the hunting party ? " 

" Yah ! " said Dick, assuming a look of great disgust and con- 
tempt, although he had been growling and acting, as his mates 
said, like a bear with a sore head, because he could not go. 
" Not I, sir, not I. Why, what have they gone to do ? Shoot a 
big cat all brown stripes. I don't want to spend my time ketch- 
ing cats. What's the good on 'em when they've got 'em ? Only 
to take their skins. Now there is some sense in a bit of fishing." 

" Especially when your crew in the boat goes to sleep, and 
let's you be surprised by the Malays." 

"Ah, but don't you see, sir," said Dick, with his eyes twink- 
ling, " that's a kind o' moral lesson for a young officer ? Here 
was the case you see : the skipper goes to sleep, and don't look 
after his crew, who, nat'rally enough, thinks what the skipper 
does must be right, and they does the same." 

" Oh ! all right, master Dick," said the middy. " I'll take the 
lesson to heart. Don't you ever let me catch you asleep, that's all" 

" No, sir," said the old sailor, grinning, *' I won't. IVe got 
too much of the weasel in me. But as I was saying, sir, there's 
some sense in a bit o' fishing, and I thought if so be you liked 
I'd get the lines ready." 

" No, Dick, no," said Bob, firmly as he recalled Lieutenant 
Johnson's words over the breakfast-table. " I've no time for 
fishing to-dav. And besides, I'm in charge of the ship." 




" Oh I indeed, sir," said Dick. " I beg pardon, sir." 

"Look here, Dick," said Bob sharply, "don't you sneer at 
your officer because he makes free with you sometimes." 

The middy turned and walked off, leaving Dick cutting him- 
self a fresh plug of tobacco. 

" He'll make a smart 'un by-and-by, that he will," muttered the 
old fellow, nodding his head admiringly ; " and I'm sorry I said 
what I did to the high-sperretted little chap, for he's made of the 
real stuff, after all." 

On the island, Tom Long was feeling quite as important as 
the middy. A keen sense of disappointment was troubling him, 
but he would not show it. He had several times over been 
looking at his gun, and thinking that it would carry a bullet as 
well as a rifle, and wishing that he could have game to try it. 
But soon afterwards he encountered pleasant Mrs Major 
Sanders, 

" Ah I Mr Long," she cried, " IVe just been seeing Miss 
Linton and Miss Sinclair. Now you know you have these 
deserted ladies and the whole of the women under your charge, 
and I hope you'll protect us." 

** I shall do my utmost, madam," said Tom Long importantly. 
'* You ladies needn't be under the smallest apprehension, for 
you will be as safe as if the major and Mr Linton were here." 

" I shall tell Miss Linton so," said Mrs Major, smiling ; and 
she nodded and went away, leaving the young ensign uncomfort- 
able, as he felt a kind of suspicion that he had been speaking 
very consequentially, and making himself absurd. 

'* I wish I was either a man or a boy," he said to himself 
pettishly. " I feel just like a man, and yet people will treat 
me as if I were a boy. That Mrs Major was only talking to me 
patronizingly, and half-laughing at me, I can see it now. Oh ! 
here's Smithers," 

Captain Smithers came up, looking rather careworn and sad, 
and nodded in a friendly way at his junior. 

*' Well, Long," he said, " so we are commanders-in-chief just 
now. At least, I am. You'll have to be my colonel, major, and 
adjutant, all in one." 

" I shall do my best to help you. Captain Smithers," said 
Tom Long stiffly. 

'* I know you will, my lad," was the reply ; " but it will be no 
child's play, for we must be extra strict and watchfuL" 

" Do you think there is anything to fear, Captain Smithers,** 
said the ensign eagerly. 

" To fear ? No, Mr Long," said the captain. " We are 




English officers, and, as such, never mention such a thing ; but 

there is a good deal to be anxious about ¡ª I mean the sdety of 

aU here." 

** But you have no suspicion, sir ¡ª of danger ? " 

" Not the sh'ghtest Still we will be as careful as if I felt sure 
that an enemy was close at hand." 

There was something about that we that was very pleasam 
to the young ensign ; and his heart warmed like a flower in 
sunshine. 

** Of course, sir," he said eagerly. " I'll do the best I can." 

*' Thank you, Long, I am sure you will," said Captain 
Smithers. " By the way, you know, of course, that the ladies 
are coming to stay with Mrs Major, so that there will not be 
much cause for anxiety about the residency. Suppose we now 
take a quiet look round together; there is really no necessity, 
but we will go as a matter of duty." 

Tom Long's self-esteem was flattered, the more especially as 
he could see that Captain Smithers was perfectly sincere, and 
looked to him, in all confidence, for aid in a time when a great 
responsibility was thrown upon his shoulders. 

** If I don't let him see that I can act like a man, my name's 
not Long," he muttered to himself, as they walked on together. 

" There's only ¡ª " 

Captain Smithers, who w^as speaking, stopped short, and the 
ensign stared. 

"I do not want to offend you, Long," he said, "but all I 
say to you is in strict confidence now, and you must be careful 

what you repeat." 

" You may trust me, Captain Smithers," said the ensign quietly. 

** Yes, I am sure I may," was the reply. ** Look here, then. 
I was going to say that the only weak point in our arrangements 
here seems to be that ! " 

He nodded his head in the direction in which they were 
going, and the ensign stared. 

*' I mean about allowing that Malay, Abdullah, to set up his 
tent among us. He has such freedom of communicating with 
the banks of the river on both sides. He is a man, too, whom I 
rather distrust" 

*' Indeed?" said Long. 

" Yes, I don't know why. But unless for some good and 
sufficient reason it would, I think, be bad policy to attempt to 
oust him." 

** Yes," calmly said Long. "He is a violent fellow, too;" 
and he related the incident about their first meeting. 




" If the major had known of this," said Captain Smithers, 
" he would never have allowed the man to settle here. You did 
wrong in not speaking of it, Long." 

" He was so apologetic and gentlemanly afterwards/' said the 
ensign, " that I did not care to speak about it, and upset the 
fellow's plans." 

" Well, it is too late to talk about it now,** replied Captain 
Smithers ; " but I shall have his actions quietly watched. Let 
me see, who will be the man ? " 

** There's Private Gray yonder," suggested the ensign. 

" I hate Private Gray 1 " exclaimed Captain Smithers, with a 
sudden burst of rage, of which he seemed to be ashamed the 
next moment, for he said hastily, ¡ª 

*' It is a foolish antipathy, for Gray is a good, staunch man;" 
and making an effort to master himself, he made a sign to Gray 
to come to them. 

" You are right, Long ; Gray is the mam He is to be 
trusted." 

The private came up, and stiffly saluted his officers, standing 
at attention, 

*'Gray," said Captain Smithers, " I want you to undertake a 
little task for me." 

" Yes, sir," 

** You will be off regular duty ; another man will take your 

place. I want you, in a quiet, unostentatious manner, to keep an 
eye on Abdullah the fruit-seller. Don't let him suspect that you 
are watching him, for really there may be no cause ; but he 
is the only native here who has free access to the island, and 
during the major's absence I wish to be especially strict" 

" Yes, sir." 

" You understand me ? I trust entirely to your good sense 
and discrimination. You will do what you have to do in a quiet 
way, and report everything ¡ª even to the least suspicious pro- 
ceeding ¡ª to me," 

" Yes, sir." 

" You shall be furnished with a permit, to pass you anywhere, 
and at all times." 

** Thank you, sir." 

" I'd go in undress uniform, and apparently without arms, but 
have a bayonet and a revolver under your jacket." 

" Do you think there is danger, sir ? " exclaimed the private 
hastily, forgetting himself for the moment. 

" Private Gray, you have your orders." 

Gray drew himself up stiffly and saluted. 





'* Begin at once, sir?" 

" At once/' said Captain Smithers. " I trust to your silence. 
No one but Mr Long knows of your mission." 

Gray saluted again and went off, while the two officers con- 
tinued their walk towards Dullah^s hut. 

The Malay came out as they approached, and with a depre- 
cating gesture invited them to take a seat beneath his verandah 
and partake of fruit. 

This, however, they declined to do, contenting themselves 
with returning his salute, and passing on. 

There were two sampans moored close to Dullah's hut, each 
holding four Malays, but the boats themselves were filled with 
produce piled high, and the owners were evidently waiting to 
have dealings with their superior, the man who had been ap- 
pointed to supply the English garrison of the island and the ship. 

There was nothing suspicious to be seen here, neither did 
anything attract their attention as they continued their walk right 
round the island, everything being as calm and still as the sleepy 
shore which lay baking beneath the ardent rays of the sun, while 
the various houses looked comparatively cool beneath the shade 
of the palms and durian trees with here and there a great 
ragged-leaved banana showing a huge bunch of its strange fruit. 

Tired and hot, they were glad to return to their quarters, 
where Sergeant Lund was writing out a report, and occasionally 
frowning at Private Sim, who was lying under a tree fast asleep. 



CHAPTER XXXIV. 

A HOT NIGHT ON BOARD THE "STARTLER." 

The young officers were pretty busy over their duties throughout 
the day, Bob Roberts to his great delight being left in sole 
charge of the steamer, while Lieutenant Johnson went to have a 
short consultation with Captain Smithers ; and two hours later, 
when Captain Smithers accompanied the naval officer back, 
Ensign Long was in full command at the island. 

The hot and sleep -inviting day had rolled slowly by ; never 
had the river looked brighter and clearer, or more keenly re- 
flected the rays of the sun. Far down in its pure depths the 
middy had watched the darting about of the fish, which seemed 
to seek the shadow beneath the steamer's hull for theirplayground. 

This was noticed at stolen moments, for Bob was generally too 
full of his duties to think of the fish, or to do more than cast a 
longing glance at the dark shadows beneath the trees. For on 
board the heat was terrible, the pitch was oozing out of the 
seams, and blistering the paint ; every piece of tarry cordage was 
soft and pliant, and very beads stood out upon the strands ; 
while beneath the awnings there was a stuffy suffocating heat that 
was next to unbearable. 

On the island the heat was less hard to be borne, the thick 
grove of palms and other trees whose roots were always moist, 
throwing out a grateful shade. Still the heat was severely felt, 
and the general impression was that the hunting-party had by far 

the worst of it. 

The day ghded by, and the sultry tropic night set in, with the 
great mellow stars glistening overhead reflected in the clear 
stream, and seeming to be repeated in the low undergrowth that 
fringed the shore. The watches were set, every precaution taken 
against surprise, and though no danger need be apprehended, 
Captain Smithers had the little fort quite ready to resist attack. 

It was the same on board the steamer, the watch being visited 
at frequent intervals by the lieutenant and his subordinate, to the 



great surprise of the men, who wondered what made the "luff" 
so fidgety. 

That night passed off without anything to disturb them \ and 
the next day all was so dull and uniform that Bob Roberts, as 
he could not go ashore, was fain to amuse himself with his 
monkey, which he fed till it could eat no more, and then teased 
till it got into a passion, snapped at him, and took refuge in the 
rigging till its master's back was turned, when, to the great de- 
light of the men, it leaped down on the middy's shoulder, and 
there seized the back of his jacket-collar and shook it vigorously, 
till seeing its opportunity it once more leaped up into the rigging, 
chattering fiercely, and showing its teeth as Bob threatened it 
and called it names. 

Evening came on again, not too hot, but quite bad enough to 
make the middy glad to walk the deck in the loosest jacket he 
possessed. The watch had been set, the lights hung up, and all 
was very still ; for having had but little sleep the night before, 
Bob was too tired to talk, and now sat in the coollest place he 
could find, hitting out occasionally at a mosquito, and alternating 
that exercise with petting the monkey, which had made its sub- 
mission by creeping down from the rigging at dinner-time, and 
approaching its master in a depressed mournful way, as if declar- 
ing its sorrow for its late sin, and readiness to do anything, if its 
master would forgive it. In fact, when the middy rose as if to 
beat it, the animal lay down on the deck, grovelling and whining 
piteously, as it watched his actions with one eye, that said as 
plainly as could be, " You don't mean it I'm such a little thing 
that you would not hurt me." 

Bob did not hurt it, but gave it one of Dullah's mangosteens 
instead, and peace was made. 

Lieutenant Johnson joined the middy soon after he had given 
up seeking a nap on account of the heat, and came and leaned 
over the bulwark by his side, talking to him in a low voice, both 
feeling depressed and subdued. 

'*I wonder how our party is getting on?" said the lieutenant 

at last. "They'll have a storm to-night, and soaked tents." 
**Yes; there's a flash," exclaimed Bob, as the distant forest 

seemed to be lit up to its very dfepths by a quivering blaze of 

sheet lightning, 

This was repeated, and with increased vividness, the pale 

blue light playing about in the horizon, and displaying the 

shapes of the great heavy clouds that overhung the mountains 

in the east 

*' It's very beautiful to watch," said the lieutenant ; *'but 

suppose we take a walk forward." 




They strolled along the deck, and on going right to the bows 
found the watch every man in his place ; and returning aft spoke 
to the marine, who stood like a statue leaning upon his piece. 

They sat down again, feeling no inclination to seek the cabin ; 
and this feeling seemed to be shared by the men, who were 
sitting about, talking in low whispers, and watching the distant 
flashing lightning, whose lambent sheets seemed now to be play- 
ing incessantly, 

** Is there anything the matter with you, sir ? " said Bob at 
last. 

" No, Roberts, only that I feel so restless and imsettled that 
I should like to jump overboard for a cool swim." 

"That's just what I feel, sir," said Bob, "with a dash ot 
monkey in it." 

" A dash of monkey ! " 

" Yes, sir ; as if I must run and jump about, or climb, or do 
something. It's the fidgets with this heat. Let's walk forward 
again, if you don't mind. I think it's cooler there." 

"Cooler, Roberts ? It seems to me as if the deck is thoroughly 
hot, and as if ones clothes were baking. I quite envy the lads, 
with their bare feet and open necks." 

They strolled forward again, with the monkey softly following 
them j and when they stood leaning over the bulwarks, listening 
to the ripple of the water under the vessel's stem, the animal 
perched itself on one of the stays just above their heads. 

They could almost have fancied they were at sea, gazing down 
at the phosphorescent water, so beautiful was the reflection of 
the stars in the smooth, dark current, as it glided swiftly along, 
rippling a little about the large buoy to which they were moored, 
and breaking the stars up, as it were, into a thousand tiny points, 

that divided into a double current and swept by the steamer's 
bows. 

*' What a night for a couple of prahus to come down and 
board us, sir !" said Bob. 

" Rather unlucky for them, if they did," said the lieutenant 
quietly. "One good shot at them, or one of our biggest shells 
dropped into their hold, would crash through, and send them to 
the bottom. There's no such luck, Roberts." 

** I suppose not, sir," said Bob ; but, all the same, he could 
not help feeling that this was a kind of luck which he could very 
well dispense with on a dark night He did not venture to say 
so, though. 

*' How quiet they seem on the island ! " said the lieutenant at 
last. " Heigh-ho ! ha hum ! I wish we were there, Roberts, 




along with the ladies ; a cup of tea and a little pleasant chat 
would be very agreeable." 

"And some music," said Bob. 

'* And some music," said the lieutenant. " What^s the matter 
with your monkey ? " 

"What's the matter, Charcoal?" said Bob; for the little 
animal had suddenly grown excited, chattering, and changing its 
place, coming down the stay, and then leaping on to the bulwark. 

" He sees something in the water," said the lieutenant. 

'* Crocodile," said Bob ; " they like monkey. Look out, 
Charcoal, or you'll be overboard." 

This was on dimly seeing the monkey run along the bulwark, 
chattering excitedly. 

" Help I " came in a hoarse tone from somewhere ahead. 

" There's a man overboard," cried the lieutenant. " Pass the 
word there. Lower down the gig." 

There was the sharp pipe of a whistle, and a scuffling of feet, 
for the hail had electrified the men ; but meanwhile the cry was 

repeated. 

" It's some one from the island swimming down to us," said the 
lieutenant. ** Hold on, my lad," he cried, as the cry was re- 
peated nearer and nearer, and then just ahead. 

" Quick, sir," cried Bob, " he's holding on by the hawser, 
whoever he is;" and fully satisfied in his own mind that one of 
the soldiers had been bathing, and had been swept down by the 
current, he called out to the swimmer to hold on, but only to 
hear once more the one hoarse cry, " Help ! " and with it a 
gurgling noise where the bright stars were broken up into a forked 
stream of tiny points. 

So eager was he to cry out to the drowning man that help was 

coming, that he missed the chance of going himself, but leaned 
over the bows as the captain's gig, manned with a ready little 
crew, kissed the water, was unhooked, and ran swiftly along 

the side ; then the oars splashed, and the little, light boat was 

rapidly rowed to where the great hawser was made fast. 

It was so dark that Bob could only dimly make out the round 
buoy, towards which the gig passed over the water like a shadow. 

" Can you see him ? " cried the lieutenant, who was once more 
by Bob Roberts' side. 

" No, sir; there's no one here," said the bow-man. 

" Help ! help 1 " came in a hoarse whisper just then, exactly 
below where the two officers leaned over ; and they saw that a 
dark face that had risen to the surface was being swept quickly 
along by the steamer's side. 



" Quick, my lads, here he is 1 Stem all ! " cried the lieutenant ; 
and the light gig was backed rapidly in quest of the drowning 
man ; while Bob ran aft as hard as he could go, and climbed 
out into the mizzen chains, to stare down into the swift current, 
holding on by one hand. 

But he could see nothing, and he was beginning, with throb- 
bing heart, to believe that he was too late ¡ª that the wretched 
man had been swept away before he climbed over, when he 
caught sight of something just below the surface. 

" Here, boat, quick ! " he cried ; and the bow-man struck his 
hook into the side, and sent the gig flying through the water. 

" Where, sir ? where ? " cried he in the hoarse voice of Dick. 

*' There, just below there ; I saw him." 

For answer Dick leaned over the gig's bows, and thrust 
down his boat-hook. 

*' Give way, my lads," he cried, and again and again he 
thrust down his hook. Then a strange, choking feeling of 
horror seemed to seize upon the middy, and he felt dizzy as 
he gazed after the boat in the midst of that weird darkness, 
which made the event ten times more terrible than if it had 
been by day. 

Just as his heart sank with dread, and he in fancy saw the 
dead body seized by one or other of the terrible reptiles that 
swarmed in the river, wondering the while which of the poor 
men it was, and why they had heard no alarm at the island, Dick's 
hoarse voice was heard some distance astern, exclaiming in 
triumph, ¡ª 

" I've got him, my lads ! Give way 1" 



CHAPTER XXXV. 



HOW ALI MADE HIS PLANS. 

There is a strange kind oi" stoicism about a Mohammedan that 
seems to give him an abundance of calmness when he comes 
face to face with death. He is a fatalist, and quietly says to 
himself what is to be will be, and he resigns himself to his fate. 

The young chief Ali was imbued with all the doctrines of his 
people ; but at the same time he had mixed so with the English 
that he had learned to look upon life as of too much value to 
be given up without a desperate struggle. One of his com- 
patriots would have made a fight for his life, and when he 
had seen all go against him he would have given up without a 
murmur and looked his slayers indifferently in the face. Ali, 
however, did not intend to give up without another effort, and 
though he seemed indifferent, a terrible struggle was going on 
within his breast. Thoughts of his father, of his new friends, of 
the bright sunshine of youth, and the future that had been so full 
of hope, and in which he had meant to do so much to improve 
his country ¡ª all rose before his wandering eyes, and he had 
meant to seize the first opportunity to escape. 

The approach of the kris-armed Malay, though, had been so 
sudden that all his calculations had been upset, and he had 
had no time to design a means of escape. He was tightly bound, 
held by two others, and this man was evidently under orders 
firom the sultan to slay him. 

It was useless to struggle, he knew ¡ª ^just as vain to waste his 
strength, and rob himself of his calmness ; so that he felt bound 
to call up all his fortitude, and with it the fatalistic theories of 
his race, so that he might die as behoved the son of a great 

chief. 

He drew himself up then, and stood gazing at the man with 
the kris as calm and motionless as if he had been made of bronze, 
and awaited the deadly stroke. 

Xhi*5, however, did not come; for in place of delivering a 





deadly thrust, the Malay roughly seized him by the shoulder, and 
began to saw away through the prisoner's bonds. 

He was so firmly secured that this process took some time, 
during which Ali, by the strange revulsion that came upon him, 
felt as if he must fall prone upon his face from sheer giddiness ; 
but by an effort he stood firm till his limbs were set free. 

His wrists were painfully marked, and his arms felt numb and 
helpless, but his first thought, as soon as the ligatures that had 
held him were off, was how to escape. 

His captors read this and smiled, each man drawing his kris 
and showing it menacingly, while their leader told him that he 
was a prisoner until the sultan's wishes were known. 

"Are you not going to kill me ? " said Ali passionately. 

" Not yet," was the reply, "unless you try to escape, when we 
are to kill you like a dog, and throw you into the river." 

" But why ? " asked Ali ; " what have I done ? " 

" I know nothing," was the surly reply. 

" Does my father know of this ? " cried AIL 

" I know nothing," said the Malay. 

" But you will tell me what your instructions are, and where 
you are going to place me." 

" I know nothing. I tell nothing," said the Malay. " Be 
silent. That is your prison. If you try to escape, you die." 

Ali burned to ask more questions, but he felt that it would be 
useless, and that he, a chiefs son, was only losing dignity by 
talking to the man, whom he recognized now as being the sultan's 
most unscrupulous follower, the scoundrel who did any piece of 
dirty work or atrocity. This was the man who, at his master's 
wish, dragged away any poor girl from her home to be the 
sultan's slave ; who seized without scruple on gold, tin, rice, or 
any other produce of the country, in his master's name, and for 
his use. His hands had been often enough stained with blood, 
and while wondering at his life being spared so far, Ali had no 
hesitation in believing that any attempt at escape would be 
ruthlessly punislied by a stab with the kris. 

Obeying his captors, then, Ali went into the inner room of the 
ruined house, and seated himself wearily upon the floor, thinking 
the while of the hunting expedition, and of the light in which his 
conduct would be viewed by his friends. 

Then he wondered whether his father would send in search of 
him ; but his heart sark as he felt that, in all probability, the 
Tumongong would be carefully watched by the sultan's orders, 
and that any movement upon his son's behalf would result in his 
own death. 



Then he began to feel that, if he was to escape, it must be 
through his own efforts ; for he had so little faith in Hamet's 
nature, that he knew that his existence trembled upon a hair. 

He was in an inner room of the house, little better in fact than 
R bamboo cage. The place was old, but he could see that here 
and there his prison had been mended with new green bamboos, 
especially about the flooring, through which he could see down 
to the earth, some twelve feet below, the sunlight shining up 
between the short bamboos, just as a few gleams of sunshine 
came through the attap roof. 

There had been a window, but this had been filled in with 
stout bamboo cross-pieces, through and between which were 
woven long lengths of rattan ; but the weak places had been 
made strong, and from old experience he knew that, unless armed 
with a heavy knife, it would be impossible to force a way through 
tlxe tough wall of bamboo and woven cane. 

The place was very gloomy, from the closing of the window ; 
?nd as he glanced round he could see that his guards had been 
joined by half-a-dozen more, and that they were making them- 
selves comfortable in the outer place, but in such a position that 
tbey could command a full view of his room. 

Judging from appearances, they were preparing for a length- 
ened stay, for some of them were arranging cooking utensils ; 
others placing pieces of dammar, a sort of fossil gum, of a pale 
blue tint, and very inflammable, ready for lighting up the part of 

the house where they were assembled. 

After a time one of the number made ready the meal, foi which 
his companions seemed to be impatiently waiting ; and first of 
all a portion, consisting of broiled fish, some fruit, and sago, was 
brought to the prisoner, who, before partaking thereof, was 
rigorously searched, to see if he still bore any arms about his 
person. Satisfied upon this point, the Malays left him with his 
food, and proceeded to feast themselves, after which some began 
smoking, and some betel chewing. 

It was evident to Ali that he was to be kept a close prisoner ; 
and as he lay there upon the bamboo floor, with his untouched 
food before him, he began to think out his position, and to 
calculate as to the possibility of escape. 

How was it to be done? 

His guards were so watchful that his slightest movements drew 
two or three pairs of eyes upon him, and he knew of old how 

quick they were of hearing. He felt assured that they would 
take it in turns to sleep, and hence he would have no oppor- 
tunity of eluding their vigilance. Still he was hopeful, for there 




is an elasticity in the mind of youth which some things dash, 
when the spirit of middle or old age would be broken. 

If he stayed where he was, sooner or later he felt sure that 
Hamet would be weary of the trouble he caused, and give orders 
for his death. So escape he must. But why should Hamet give 
orders for his death ? Why should he wish him to be kept a 
close prisoner? 

It was a puzzle that he could not solve ; but at last, as he lay 
there thinking, the light broke more and more into the darkness 
of his mind. 

It would be, he was sure, something to do with his intimacy 
with the English ; and if so, Hamet's friendship was false. 

Ali had suspected him for some time ; and as he lay thinking, 
it seemed to him that he was correct in surmising that though 
Hamet was sincere enough, perhaps, when he made his first 
arrangements for the reception of a resident, the act had given 
such annoyance to several of the neighbouring Malay princes, 
notably to Rajah Gantang, that in his fear for his personal safety 
the sultan had repented of the arrangement, or had been 
coerced by those who might, he knew, in spite of the English 
being at hand, secretly have him assassinated. 

This being the case, then, what should he do ? 

It was still a hard problem to solve, but as he went on think- 
ing, Ali's brow grew damp, for he started upon a strange current 
of reasoning. 

Sultan Hamet knew little of the English power. Certainly 
they had good fighting men and guns ; but they were small in 
number, and he might easily overcome them, and the people at 
Singapore or Penang would not dare to send more. If they 
did, the new contingent could be served Ihe same as the old. 

Ali's blood turned cold. Certain little things, which had only 
slightly roused his curiosity, now assumed an ominous signifi- 
cance J and as he thought, he started hastily into a sitting position. 

This movement caused his guards to turn upon him ; and 
seeing that he had excited their curiosity, he bent down over the 
supply of food placed for him, and began to eat as calmly 
as if nothing whatever troubled his spirit. But all the same, he 
was wet with perspiration, and his heart beat painfully ; for the 
liglit had come, and he saw plainly enough that something was 

wrong. 

This was why he was a prisoner. Hamet knew of his intimacy 
with the young Englishmen, and feared that he would learn his 
plans and communicate them at the residency, perhaps to their 
defeat 



There was danger, then, threatening those whom he had made 
his friends. Hamet had yielded to the taunts of Rajah Gantang 
and others, and also given up to his own desire for revenge. 

The resident had offered him a deadly insult in refusing to 
listen to the matrimonial proposal, and also in refusing to give 
up the slaves who had taken refuge with him. 

Here was plenty of cause for hatred ¡ª a hatred that had been 
concealed under a mask of smiles ; and now it was evident that 
Hamet meant to strike a blow at the English, destroying them, 
gaining possession of their arms and stores, and ¡ª the thought 
made him shudder as he pretended to be eating ¡ª get the two 
tenderly -nurtured ladies into his power. 

How and when would this be done ? AH asked himself, and 
again came a flash of light, and he saw it all plainly enough. A 
trap had been laid for the English, and they were walking into it 

-that hunting party ! 

It was all plain enough ; the English force would be divided. 
A part would be marched to some suitable part of the jungle, 
miles away, and beyond the reach of their friends, where even 
the sounds of firing could not be heard, and then they would be 
set upon, and butchered in cold blood, most likely during their 
sleep. 

This was the tiger-hunt, then, with the unfortunate English 
party being led directly into the tiger's lair 1 

It was terrible I The young man's face became convulsed 
with horror as he thought of the massacre that must ensue, 
and Ihen of the surprise of those on the island and on the ship. 
Treachery, he knew, would be brought to bear in both cases, and 
here was he, knowing all, and yet unable to stir. 

At all hazards, even that of death, he must make the venture, 
and warn those in peril ; but where must he go first ? 

A moment decided that. 

To the steamer and the island, and afterwards to the hunting- 
party ; which would be easy enough to follow by their track, if 
they had gone. 

In the eager impulse of the determination, he sprang to his 
feet to go, but as he did so three Malays sprang to their feet, 
and each man drew his kris. 



CHAPTER XXXVI. 



AT THE PRISON IN THE WOODS. 

The menacing act on the part of his captors brought Ali back 
to a sense of his position, and he stood there, gazing from one 
to the other, thinking what he should do. 

Unarmed as he was, any attempt at violence was utter mad- 
ness, and that he knew; so after a few moments* thought he 
made a sign for the chief man of the party to advance, which 
he did cautiously, and with his weapon held ready to strike. 

Seeing his suspicion, Ali smiled, and threw himself on the 
floor, where, resting on one elbow, he began to appeal to the 

man to let him go, but only to find his words listened to in 

solemn silence. 

The young chief then began to offer him bribes, one after the 
other, making the man's eyes glisten when he promised him 
his double gun ; but directly after the man made a negative sign, 
merely told him to finish his meal, and returned to the cuter 
room. 

What was he to do ? The more he thought of the suspicions 
that had entered his mind, the more certain did he become that 
he was right ; and his sufferings became terrible, as in imagina- 
tion he saw a treacherous attack made upon those he esteemed 
as friends, and the whole party put to death. 

Could he not escape ? It would not take him so very long 
to make his way to the river, where, if he could not seize upon 
a boat, he might swim down to the island, risking the crocodiles ; 
though, somewhat unnerved by his late adventure, he felt a 
shudder run through him at the recollection of the grip of the 
loathsome beast. 

Yes, he must get away, he said. He must elude the vigilance 
of the people who watched him, and by some means escape. 
Once in the jimgle-path, with anything like a start, he did not 
feel much fear. 

The hunt was to be on the next day but one, and that would 




give him ample time to devise some plan. He would require 
all his strength, so he must eat ; and though the act went against 
him, he set to and ate of the food provided, then leaned back 
and half closed his eyes, knowing full well that his every act was 
still watched by those who had made him a prisoner. 

What should he do ? 

Bribery with the chief of the party was evidently useless, for 
though he had promised any price the man liked to name, 
he would not listen ; though that was no cause for surprise, since 
if the man helped the young chief to escape, his own life 
would be forfeit, unless he could escape from the country. 

But there were his followers, he might be able to win one of 
them to his side, could he get at him, and that could only be 
achieved by throwing the leader to some extent off his guard. 

Even if he could enlist the sympathy of one of the others, 
Ali felt in no wise sure of success. Better, he thought, to trust 
to himself, and try to escape. 

His anxiety grew momentarily greater, even though he knew 
the hunting party would not set off until another day had elapsed, 
while, try hard as he would, he could devise no scheme that 
seemed likely to succeed. 

Through his half-closed eyes he scanned every part of the 
closely-woven walls, to see if he could make out a weak place 
in his prison, but not one appeared; then turning, as if rest- 
lessly, he gazed up at the palm-thatched roof, to see if there was 
any opening there; but even if there had been, he saw the 
hopelessness of trying, and at last he lay still with a dull feeling 
of despair creeping over him. 

Night fell at last, and he saw his captors light a couple of 
dammar torches, with whose light they were able to see dis- 
tinctly his every act ; and then he noticed that three of the men 
took up the task of watching him, while the others slept. 

The hours rolled on, and, perfectly sleepless himself, Ali lay 
upon a couple of mats that had been brought him, listening to 
the heavy breathing of the men in the next room, and to the 
weird noises in the jungle, where the animals that had lain 
hidden all day were now prowling about, close to the ruined 
buildings, as if attracted by the presence of human beings in 
their midst. 

Never had night seemed so long, or day so slow in coming ; 
but at last as Ali lay watching he suddenly became aware that 
the dammar torches, lit by each watching party in turn, were be- 
ginning to pale, and that it was once more day. 

That day passed away in the most weary and monotonous 



manner. Sleepless as had been the young chiefs night, he still 
felt no desire to dose his eyes, but lay watching and thinking. 
Still no hopeful idea entered his head. The men were watched, 
he found, by their leader, who seemed to sleep so lightly that 
he was upon his feet the moment any of his followers moved, 

Ali tried him again twice in the course of that day, but found 
him incorruptible; do what he would, the highest promises 
having no more effect than the lowest. 

" No," he said once, grimly j " if I let you escape, all you gave 
me would not save my life." 

" Who would dare to hurt you ? " exclaimed Ali. 

The man smiled sourly, and made no reply, but walked 
away. 

That day glided by, and still no chance of escape. Food 
was brought, and Ali ate mechanically, feeling that he might 
need his strength when he did make the effort to get away \ but 
still there seemed no chance. Walls, floor, roof, all were 
slight, and yet too strong for him to make any impression upon 
them, unless he could have had a few minutes to himself; then 
he would not have despaired of getting through. Sometimes 
he resolved to make a bold dash, run by his guards, and, leaping 
down by the entrance, trust to his swiftness to escape ; but a few 
minutes* consideration taught him that such a plan must result 
in failure. His only hope was to elude the men. 

Why did not his father try and save him? he asked himself; 
and then he sank back despairing again, wondering what he 

should do. 

Then he tried his guard again upon another tack ¡ª would he, 
if he would not let him escape, bear a message to the residency 
island ? 

The man replied by a stem negative ; and, as night came on, 
Ali determined to escape at all hazards. 

The next morning the party would be starting for the hunt ¡ª 
a hunt from which, he*felt sure, they would never return. Then 
it was certain that a treacherous attack would be made upon the 
ship and the island, and yet here he lay supine, knowing all this, 
and yet unable to act. 

Night fell, and with the intention of making a bold rush 
through the outer room when half the watchers were asleep, 
Ali lay, watching hour after hour for an opportunity. 

Time went on, and it seemed as if the leader would never 
lie down ; he always seemed to have something more to say to 
his followers. But at last he threw himself on the floor, and 
seemed to sleep. 




The time had come. 

Three men sat there watching him, their swarthy faces glisten- 
ing in the light of the torches. All was dark without, and the 
low growling noise of beasts was once more heard in close prox- 
imity to the place. Still they would not keep him back. He 
could risk an encounter with one of them, even death, sooner 
than this fearful torture. 

At last he turned softly, and drew up one leg, watching his 
guards the while. 

They did not hear him, and he drew up the other leg. 

Still no notice was taken ; and softly rising to his hands and 
knees, Ali remained motionless, nerving himself for the supreme 
effort. 

The men were talking in a low voice, the sleepers breathed 
hard, and now was the moment Rising then to his feet, he was 
about to make a rush across the room ; he had even stooped to 
give impetus to his spring, when the chief of his guards leaped 
up, kris in hand, the others following the example, and Ali 
shrank back disheartened, and fully awake now to the fact that 
some one had been watching him all the time. 

To struggle with them would only have been to throw away 
his life ; so, with his heart full of despair, Ali allowed himself 
to be pressed back to his old position, where he lay down, his 
captor telling him savagely that the orders were to kill him if 
he attempted to escape. 

" And we shall," said the Malay, " sooner than lose you." 

His words were uttered in a tone of voice that told his hearer 
of the sincerity of that which was spoken. Ali knew the char- 
acter of the Malays too well to entertain any doubt. There would 
not be the slightest compunction in the matter ; and knowing 
this, he lay there watching the men, as they slowly settled down 
once more around the blazing dammar-torch they had re- 
plenished. 

One coolly replaced his kris, and proceeded to get ready his 
betel for a fresh chew, calmly taking a sirih leaf, spreading upon 
it a little creamy lime from a tiny box, and rolling in it a scrap 
of nut, his red-stained teeth looking ogre-like in the torch-light. 

Another set-to and prepared to smoke, making himself a pipe 
in a very few minutes out of a piece of green bamboo, cutting it off 
close to the joint, and then a little above it for a bowl, in one side 
of which he made a hole, and thrust in a little reed for a stem. 
In this sylvan pipe he placed some broken leaf of the coarse 
Malay tobacco, and began to smoke contentedly ; while the third 
watcher helped himself to a piece of sugar-cane, and began 



peeling off the harsh, siliceous envelope, and then eating the 
sweet soft interior. 

The leader had at once lain down, and seemed to have gone 
off to sleep ; but of that Ali could not be sure. 

He had failed ; but Ali was not yet disheartened, and he lay 
there, thinking that he would risk life over and over again to 
warn his friends; but still he had to consider that if he lost 
his life he would not be serving them in the slightest degree, 
even if they should see his disfigured body float down. 

What could he do ? 

If he had only possessed a little toohah, that creeping plant 
whose roots the Malays used for drugging the fish, some of that, 
he thought, infused in the food of his guards, would send them 
into a state of stupefaction, and give him time to escape. 

He smiled directly after as he thought of this, and lay back 
wearily, thinking of what folly it was to form such bubble-like 
ideas \ for of course it would have been impossible, even had he 
possessed the drug, to get it mingled with his captors' food. 

No, he felt he must wait now, and trust to their dropping off 
to sleep, when he might still manage to crawl to the doorway, 
leap down, and dash into the jungle. 

As he lay thinking, the hard breathing of a couple of the 
Malays could be plainly heard, and his hopes rose, for the others 
must grow weary, sooner or later, and fall asleep. The noises 

in the jungle increased ; and as he lay with his cheek against the 
bamboo flooring, the sounds came up very plainly between the 

interstices. Now it was the heavy crashing of the reeds, the 
rustling of some animal going through the dense undergrowth, 
and then, unmistakeably, the low, snarling roar of a tiger. Now 
it was distant ¡ª now close at hand, and he knew that one of the 
great, cat-like creatures was answering another. How close it 
seemed ! He could almost fancy that the tiger was beneath the 
house, hiding in the reedy grass that had sprung up amidst the 
ruins. 

Two of the Malays moved about uneasily, and they lit a fresh 
torch, an act that set Ali thinking of cases he had known, in 
which tigers had sprung up eight or ten feet to the platform of a 
house, and seized and borne off its occupants one after the other. 

If only one of the monsters would perform such a good office 
for him now, he would be able to escape in the midst of the con- 
fusion, perhaps into the jaws of another. 

Well, if he did ; what then ? he asked himself. Better trust 
to chance in the jungle, than be left to the tender mercies of 
these men. 




The roars came louder and nearer, close up at last, and the 
Malays seized their limbings, and stood with the keen points 
advanced towards the entrance; but their leader sulkily rose, took 
one of the dammar torches, made it blaze a little, and going 
boldly towards the door, waited till a snarling roar came close at 
hand, when he hurled it with all his might in the tiger s direction. 

There was a savage, deep-mouthed, hollow yell, and the crash 
of brittle reeds, telling that the tiger had rushed away, alarmed 
at the fire ; when the man came slowly back, said something to 
his companions, who resumed their seats, while he seemed to lie 
down and go off to sleep. 

Seemed, Ali felt ; for after his late experience, he was sure 
that if any attempt were made to cross the room this watchful 
Malay would immediately rise to his feet and confront him. 

Ali was intensely agitated. The expedition was to start the 
next morning, and if he did not warn them, they would be march 
ing, he was sure, right into the jaws of death. Still the night 
was young as yet, and some opportunity might occur. 

The light from the torches flickered and danced in the night 
air, and cast strange shadows about the place. From where he 
lay he could see the forms of his guards, huge and distorted, 
against the woven reed and bamboo walls, their every movement 
being magnified and strange. In his own part, from time to time 
he could see the bright green growth that had forced itself 
through the palm-thatch, and trace every bamboo rafter, save 
where, in places, all was in profound darkness. 

How dreamy and strange it all seemed 1 There was the 
distant roaring of the tigers, growing more and more faint ; the 
soft sighing of the night wind, and the rustle of the dry grass as 
some creature, on its nocturnal hunt for food, brushed through. 
Time was going by fast, but still the night was not nearly past, 
and the opportunity might come. 

Surely, he thought, the leader was asleep now ; he had moved 
uneasily two or three times, and was now lying motionless upon 
his back. One of the other men, too ¡ª the watchers ¡ª had let 
his chin sink upon his breast, and the other two looked heavy 
and dull. 

His heart rose high with hope, for surely the chance of escape 
was going to be his. 

The torches were growing dim, and if not soon replenished 
with fresh dammar, they would both be out ; but no one stirred 
to touch them. 

Ali waited, with every nerve drawn tight to its utmost strain, 
and he was ready for the rush, but he hung back, for fear too 





great precipitancy should spoil his chance ; and he watched and 
watched, lying there till, to his great joy, one of the torches went 
completely out, and the other was failing. 

Would either of the Malays move ? 

No, they were asleep ; and the second torch gave out but a 
dim glimmer, as Ali rose, softly as a cat, and going on all fours, 
began to make what he felt was his final trial to get free. 

He crept on nearer and nearer, but no one stirred. On he 
wentj till he was close to his guards ¡ª so near that he could have 
stretched out a hand and touched them ¡ª but still no one moved. 
Their leader seemed now to be the most soundly asleep of the 

party, and so intensely excited did the fugitive become that it 

was all he could do to master himself and keep from rising up 
and rushing to the open door, through which the cool night 
wind now began to fan his cheeks. 

He kept down the exciting feelings, though, by a mighty effort, 
and crawled softly on, as the second dammar torched burned 
out, and all was darkness. 

He passed the last man, and was now out well in the middle 
of tlie great room, with the open doorway before him, dimly seen 
like a square patch of star-lit sky. The hard breathing of the 
sleepers came regularly, and there was the low sighing of the 
wind without, then the softened, distant roar of a tiger, heard 
again and again, and repeated far more distantly. Then all was 
very still : the only noise being the faint rustle of his sarong, as 
he crept on nearer and nearer to the opening, from whence he 
meant to lower himself silently and make straight for the river, 
and try to find a boat. 

It was hard work to keep crawling along there, inch by inch, 
lest the bamboos should creak. They bent and yielded to liis 
weight over and over again, and twice over they gave so loud a 
noise that Ali paused, listening for the movement of his guards, 
meaning then to spring up and flee. Still no one moved, and 
in spite of his intense desire to make a bold rush, he crept on, 
knowing how great would be his advantage if he could get off 
without waking his guards, and free from the pursuit of a party 
following upon his track like a pack of hungry hounds. 

Not two yards from the door now, and it seemed as if he 
would never reach it. His breath came thick and fast, and his 
heart throbbed so that he felt the bamboos over which he 
crawled vibrate, but still no one moved. 

Another yard gained, and still all was darkness and silence, 
while the strain upon his nerves seemed greater than they could 
beat. 





The last yard, and he grasped the bamboos to lower himself 
softly down, when there was a rush, a cry, a hurriedly-spoken 
order, and the Malays, who seemed to have divined that he was 
there, dashed across the floor in pursuit. 

AH told himself that he must not be taken, and dropping to 
the earth, he dashed across the reed and grass-grown space, and 
made for the jungle path, meaning to follow it for a certain 
distance, and then strike off at the first opening across to the river. 

To have attempted the jungle at once would have been utter 
madness, for he could not have forced his way a dozen yards 
through the tangled growth. All he could do was to trust to 
swiftness of foot and follow the track, and that was horribly 
overgrowiL Thorns caught and tore his baju and sarong, rattan 
canes tripped him up, or were so woven across his path that he 
had to leap over them, when the upper boughs beat and lashed 
his face ; but still he tore on, with his pursuers close behind. 
He could hear their shouts, and almost distinguish their breath- 
ing, as they panted on close behind him. 

It was terrible work, and he felt himself at this disadvantage, 
that he was clearing the way down the little-used jungle path 
for his pursuers, while every now and then he stepped into an 
elephant-hole, and nearly fell heavily. The tracks left by the 
huge beasts were in places very deep, but somehow Ali seemed 
to save himself just as he was on the point of failing. 

On still through the intense darkness, and his pursuers close 
behind. The nearest, he seemed to feel, was the leader of the 
party ] and as he listened to his heavy breathing, and fancied 
that the man was gaining upon him, the keen kris he held in his 
hand nearly grazed his shoulder. 

A dozen times over, with the desperation of some hunted 
beast, Ali would have turned at bay and faced this man, but he 
knew that it meant death or capture, for the others were close 
behind, while he was quite unarmed. 

And what did death or capture mean ? The destruction 01 
those whom he was trying to save. 

Feeling this, he toiled on, with heart throbbing, his breath 
coming tiiickly, and his limbs growing more heavy moment by 
moment At first he had bounded along like a frightened deer, 
but the terrible nature of the jungle through which he was 
struggling soon began to tell upon him, and the bounding pace 
settled down into a weary trot. 

There was this, however, in his favour ; the ground was very 
bad for his pursuers, and though eager to overtake him, they 
were not moved by the same intense desire as himselt 




On still, and he was once more nearly down. Something 
lashed his face, then he tripped again once more, and the jungle, 
as he staggered up, seemed to grow more intensely dark. That 
vindictive enemy was close behind, and he had struck at him 
twice with his keen weapon. Then, as he panted on, he came 
upon first one and then another animal, which bounded away 
into close growth, while the poor hunted wretch could hardly 
drag one leg before the other. 

Still he struggled on through the darkness, till feeling his 
pursuer close at hand, he roused all his remaining strength and 
leaped forw'ard, caught his foot in a mass of interwoven creeping 
plants, and fell. He made one effort to rise, but his strength 
was gone, and he had only time to throw himself over and get 
his hands at liberty, as his pursuer threw himself down upon him, 
clutched him by the throat, and, raising his kris, was about to 
plunge it into the prostrate young man*s breast. 

But All was too quick. In spite of his weakness and the 
suffocating sensation caused by his position, he made a snatch 
at the descending arm, caught it, and stopped the blow, and 
then they both lay there panting and exhausted, chaser and 
chased, unable to do more than gaze into each other's eyes, as 
the jungle now began to grow lighter, and Ali could see the 
gleam of the deadly kris just above his head. 

They were terrible moments ; the oppression was so great 
that he could hardly breathe, and at the same time he felt him- 
self growing weaker and weaker. There was the baleful glare 
of his enemy's eyes, and the gleam of the kris growing each 
moment nearer, and he powerless to arrest it Only a few 
moments, and in spite of his brave resistance all would be 
over, and those he sought to save would be lost. 

The thought of the friends at the residency nerved him to 
the final effort, and with a wild cry he drew himself up, and 
tried to throw his enemy from his chest¡ª his enemy, wliose 
eyes and weapon glared down at him so, and summoning all 
his strength, he felt that he had succeeded. 

Panting heavily, Ali started up, but the gleam was about him 
still, for the bright rays of the morning sun were shining down 
through the attap roof, and with a moan of misery he sank back 
once more on finding that he had been overcome by weariness, 
and that this last painful episode was only a dream. 

And his friends that he meant to save ¡ª what of them ? 

Ali lay back and closed his eyes, for his misery seemed 

greater than he could bear. 



CHAPTER XXXVII. 



HOW ALI MADE A DASH FOR LIBERTY. 

As AH lay back there with closed eyes, it seemed impossible 
that he could have slept and dreamed all this, but it was plain 
enough now. He had but to unclose his eyes and see the 
Malays in the outer room, and listen to the twittering of the 
small birds, the screams of the parrots, and the cry uttered from 
time to time by some monkey. 

Where was his manhood ? he asked himself ¡ª where his keen 
desire to escape and help his friends ? He felt half-maddened 
to think that he should have slept and neglected them, not 
sparing himself for a moment, and never once palliating what 
he called his crime by trying to recall the fact that he had not 
slept the previous night, and that he had been completely 
exhausted. 

There was the fact staring him in the face; he had been 
lying there thinking of escaping, and listening to the cries of the 
prowling tigers, and ¡ª 

" Stop,*' he asked himself, " where did the reality end and 
dreaming begin? Did he see the Malay get up and hurl a 
torch out of the open door, and then come back and lie down ? " 

Yes, he felt sure that was true, but where that which he was 
watching shaded off into dreamland, he could not tell. 

It was weak, perhaps, but the scalding tears rose and filled his 
eyes, and when he passionately dashed them away and sat up, 
he felt ready to make a fierce rush through his guard, and either 
escape or die. 

He was on the point of risking all in some such mad attempt 
when two of the men came in, proceeded to make a careful 
inspection of the place where he was, and then sat down just in 
the opening, getting up soon afterwards, though, to make way for 
another, who brought in some food on fresh plantain leaves, rice 
freshly boiled with fowl, and curry made with freshly-grated 
cocoa-nut and peppers. There was an abundance of fruit, too, 




but All looked at it all with a feeling of disgust. He had no 

desire to eat. 

The men left the food on its fresh green leaves before him, 
and went out to their own meal, while the prisoner sat thinking 
that the expedition had by this time started, for he had slept 
long in spite of his troublous dream. Then his thoughts turned 
to the steamer and Bob Roberts, whose frank, happy face was 
always before him, and then somehow he thought of the steamer 
and its powerful engine, and how it was kept going with fuel 
and water ; and that set him thinking of himself. How was he 
to help his friends if he let himself get weak for want of food. 

The result was, that he ate a few grains of rice, when the want 
of appetite disappeared, and he went on and made a very hearty 
meal. He felt annoyed, though, directly after, to find his captors 
smile as they came to remove the fragments of his feast 

Then began once more the terrible hours of anxiety, during 
which he paced up and down his prison like some wild beast, 
his guards squatting outside, and watching him in the most 
imperturbable manner, as they chewed their betel or varied it by 
smoking. 

So long as he seemed disposed to make no effort to escape 
they were civil enough, one offering him betel, another Java 
tobacco, an object much prized by the Malays, but he did not 
take them, only fixed his eyes jealously upon their weapons, and 
longed to snatch them away, and in some desperate action to 
calm the suffering he endured. 

Every now and then he listened, fancying he could hear the 
distant sound of firing, and he shuddered as he fancied that the 
massacre had already begun. But he was soon compelled to 
own that it was all fancy, and wearied out, he laid himself 
down again to try and scheme a way of escape. 

The day slowly advanced, and the heat became intense in spite 
of the shadow in which he lay. A few light gleams came in 
through thin places in the roof, but they only seemed to make 
the room darker, for a couple o( the Malays had been busy 
stopping up a small hole or two near the closed window. Now 
and then some busy fly or crawling beetle took his attention, or 
a nimble lizard in chase of an insect, and he thought of the 
native proverb as he saw how patiently the lizard crept along 
after its intended victim, and waited its time until with un- 
erring certainty it could make its stroke. 

He told himself that he must take a lesson from the quiet 
little reptile, and await his time. 

And so the day wore on, every hour convincing him more 




and more ot the impossibility of escape, unless some change 
should take place in the arrangements. 

One gleam of hope came to him, and that was afforded by the 
restlessness of his guard. They seemed to be expecting some 
one, and watch was evidently kept for his arrival, but as the 
evening drew near there was no change, and the hope that the 
expected messenger might have been about to order them to 
convey him elsewhere ¡ª to a place perhaps affording a better 
chance of escape, died away. 

True, the hope had been mingled with a sense of dread, for 
he felt that if a messenger had come he might have been bearer 
of an order to put him to death. But no one arrived, the sun 
was sinking fast, and his agony on the increase, for night was 
close at hand, with no prospect of his being able to convey the 
ill news he had to his friends. 

The heat had been terrible to him in his excited state, and 
the evening breeze that now came whispering through the leaves 
seemed but little better. The men in the next room had twice 
over brought him food and water, and they were now busily pre- 
paring their dammar torches, a couple of which were soon 
burning brightly, sending a warm glow like a golden band right 
across the prisoner's room, leaving both sides in the shade. 

Worn out with weariness of mind and body, Ali lay there at 
last, telling himself that he ought to follow the exa^nple of his 
compatriots, and calmly accept the inevitable. 

But that he could not do, for he lay there fuming with impa- 
tience, and watching the outer room for a chance of escape. 
That did not come, for the party were more watchful than ever ; 
and at last he sank back, feeling that all was over, and praying 
that warning might be given to those in danger, in some other 
way. 

For the sake of coolness he was lying away from his mat, on 
the bamboo floor, between the rough pieces of which the night 
air came up, mingled with the sweet odours of the forest; and 
as he lay there, with his head throbbing from the mental ex- 
citement, while his guards were talking together in a low voice, 
Ali began to wonder whether he should hear the tiger prowling 
about the place that night. Then he began to think of the 
midshipman and tlie ensign, and he tried to comfort himself 
with the idea that the English were very brave, and might 
read Sultan Hamet a severe lesson instead of being beaten. 

These thoughts were just crossing his mind, when he started, 
for it seemed to him that there was something rising close at 
hand, and then a faint touch. 





This was evidently heard only by himself, for no one in the 
outer place had moved. 

Ali felt a strange shudder pass through him, for the noise was 
just that which a large serpent would make as it forced its way 
between some old pieces of woodwork, and this was just the place 
for some monster to make its haunt. It had evidently been 
temporarily driven away, but had now in the silence of the evening 
returned to its home in the deserted house. 

Ali was as brave as most young fellows of his age, but at the 
same time he shrank from contact with such a loathsome beast, 
and lay motionless, wondering whether it would pass him by, and 
then half-resolving to call the men to come with lights. 

He was on the point of shouting to them, but he hesitated as 
his alarm might be foolish, and the noise be caused by some in- 
offensive creature. 

He lay there listening, and as he did so he suddenly felt 
paralyzed, for something touched his hand. The contact had 
such an effect upon him that he could not move. 

It was a serpent, he was sure, for it felt cold and damp, and ¡ª 
there it was again, evidendy coming up between the bamboos of 
the floor, and seeking about, and ¡ª 

Why, it was a hand, and it grasped his wrist ! 

Ali wanted to call aloud, but he felt as if suffering from night- 
mare ; to leap up, but he felt helpless, and lay bathed in perspir- 
ation. He knew what it was now; some miscreant beneath the 
house, seeking out where he lay. 

He knew of plenty of cases where men had been assassinated 
by an enemy finding out where they slept in a room, and then 
quietly going beneath in the night and thrusting his kris between 
the bamboos. 

This, then, was the way in which he was to be slain ¡ª as if it 
had been done by some stranger. One of his guards then must be 
beneath the house, though he had not heard one go out 

And yet, knowing all this, he could not stir, but lay as if 
stunned, till the blood that had been frozen seemed suddenly to 
start in rapid action, and his veins began to throb, for instead of 
the blade of a kris being thrust remorselessly into his side, the 
handle was softly pushed through against his hand. 

This was a friend then below him, and had he had any doubt 
before, the soft pressure of a hand upon his told him that he was 
right, for there was a riiig upon one finger that touched his, whose 
form he recognized. It was his father's ring, and he had come 
at the risk of losing his own life to save his son's. 

For a few moments hand pressed hand. Then Ali*s was drawn 




softly down between the bamboos, and two hands placed it under 
one of the long, split canes upon which he was lying, held it 
there, and then pressed it upwards. 

All was puzzled. He dare not speak, neither did the Tumon- 
gong below venture so much as to whisper, but kept on forcing 
his son's hand upwards. 

There was a faint creak, and then the light came into Ali's 
puzzled brain. It was plain enough now ; this bamboo had been 
loosened at one end, for it gave way ; and the young man's heart 
throbbed painfully, as he felt that the way of escape was open. 
He had but to wait his time, and then softly raise this orxQ broad, 
split cane, to make space enough to let himself slide through into 
the open space beneath the post-supported house. Then the 
jungle was before him, and it was his own fault if he did not 
escape in the darkness. 

He left off clasping the broad, split bamboo, and stretched 
out his hand once more to clasp that of his father, in expression 
of his thankfulness ; but though he reached out in all directions, 
striving to grasp the loving hand that had brought help, there 
was nothing near, and Ali felt as if in a dream, till his other hand 
touched the kris that was now beneath his chest. 

It was his right arm that was forced down between the bam- 
boos, and he was consequently lying over upon his chest, when, 
to his horror, he heard a noise, and saw the principal of his 
guards seize a torch and enter the room, kris in hand. 

For a moment Ali felt that he must spring up, kris in hand, 
and fight for his life. Fortunately he lay still and feigned sleep, 
his heart beating heavily, as he hoped to conceal the loosened 
bamboo with his body, as well as the kris. 

The Malay looked curiously round the room, and held his 
dammar torch on high, as he peered here and there. Not that 
he had heard a sound, but he was evidently suspicious, or else 
extra careful. 

Ali lay motionless and breathing heavily, but with a choking 
sensation in his breast, as he felt that now, just when escape was 
open to him, he had been discovered. He was in such a state 
of excitement that he was ready to spring up and attack his 
guard, should he make any sign of having found out what had 
taken place ; but though the man held the torch here and there, 
and walked round the room before coming back and bending 
down over Ali, as if to see whether he was asleep, he saw nothing. 

Then a fresh dread assailed the prisoner. Why was this man 
bending over him, and did he mean evil against him? 

Ali would have given anything to have been able to turn round 
and face his enemy, but to have made the slightest movement 




would have been to show that he had a kris beneath him, and 
his arm right through between the bamboos, so the young man 
lay perfectly still, mastered his emotion as best he could, and 
waited for what seemed an unreasonable space of time, till the 
Malay slowly moved off into the outer room, and sticking his 
torch in the floor, seated himself with his companions, and began 

to smoke. 

Panting with excitement, Ali lay there in the darkness, and 
for some time not daring to move ; but at last, watching the 
effect upon his guards the while, he made an uneasy movement 
and muttered a few unintelligible words. 

The men looked up for a moment, but afterwards paid no 
heed j and finding this so, Ali secured the kris in the folds of his 
sarong, after softly withdrawing his arm trom between the bam- 
boos of the floor. 

To his great delight, he found them very loose ; and after 
waiting a reasonable time, and until his guards seemed to be 
settled, he softly raised the one that was loose, and rolled it, as 
it were, over on to the side, leaving a narrow opening through 
the floor. 

Just as he did so, a low, snarling growl close at hand an- 
nounced the return of the tiger. 

This was terrible ; for if he descended now, he was going 
from one danger to another, and his position was pitiable. At 
any moment the Malays might come in and see that the bamboo 
had been moved ; and now all he had to do was to squeeze 
himself down through the opening, and glide away into the 
darkness. 

There was the snarling growl again. The tiger evidently 
scented prey, and it came closer and closer. In fact, Ali felt 
that it was quite possible that the beast might spring up at the 
opening to seize him. 

What could he do but wait ? 

His patience was rewarded ; for as the great cat came prowling 
nearer, one of the Malays, who was uneasy at its presence, 
seized a torch, as had been done the past night; the others 
standing ready with their spears, advanced, and waiting until the 
animal seemed ready to make a spring at the door, he hurled 
the blazing piece of dammar, overturning the second torch in 
the act, one of his companions trampling it out, to save the 
floor from being set alight. 

There was a snarling yell, once more followed by a loud shout 
from the Malays, when the tiger was heard to bound heavily 
away through the jungle, its yell being answered by another 

tiger some distance away. 



Now was All's time. The Malays were talking, and trying to 
relight the torch, the place being in total darkness \ and without 
a moment's hesitation the prisoner softly let himself down 
through the long narrow slit, lower and lower, till he reached his 
waist, where the kris stopped his further descent 

This was horrible, as he was as it were caught in the narrow 
hole, and he could not get the kris out from the folds of his 
silken sarong. 

The Malays, though, were busy over their light ; and freeing 
the weapon at last, he let himself glide down lower and loy^tXy 
but not without noise, for there was hardly room for him to pass, 
and he began to tremble, lest his head should refuse to go through. 

At any moment his guards might come in and find him in this 
helpless state, for he dared not hurry, but had to literally force 
his way down till he had only his head and shoulders above, his 
eyes glaring wildly in the direction of the outer room, where the 
Malays were talking. 

By sheer force of muscle he sustained himself, as he hung at 
length with his head only in the room, and to his horror he 
found that it would not pass through ; for he was opposite two 
of the knots of the bamboo, and strive how he would, he could 
not manage to get himself a little way along, to where the wood 
curved in. 

Just then a light flashed upon his face, and he saw that his 
guards had succeeded in re-illumining their room ; while to his 
horror, he now found that they were coming in to him. 

With a tremendous effort, and feeling now that it was no time 
to study about noise, Ali forced himself a little way along, but in 
doing so slipped, and hung by his head, fixed between the bam- 
boos, as the leader of his captors entered, uttered a shout, and 
made a bound forward to seize him. 

That did it ! 

Had he come forward carefully, he could have seized his help- 
less prisoner ; but this leap on the elastic, hollow canes bent 
one down, and set Ali free, his guard uttering a shout of rage as 
his captive literally slipped through his fingers, All's head dis- 
appearing from the light of the torch, and revealing the long 
narrow slit, looking dark and strange, in the floor, 

" Quick, the Aoox \ " shouted the Malay, as he tried to force 
himself down through the slit ¡ª but had to struggle back, giving 
Ali moments to recover himself from the painful shock he had 
sustained ; and when the man had reached the door, torch in 
hand, and leaped down to where his men were hurrying here and 
there, it was for the light to gleam for a moment on Ali's bright, 
silken baju, as he plunged into the jungle, forty yards away. 



CHAPTER XXXVIII. 



A SWIM IN THE NIGHT. 

As has been said, Ali suffered quite a shock from the jerk he 
received in escaping from his prison, and had his captors rushed 
down directly, his attempt would have resulted in failure ; but 
the effort made by the Malay to follow him afforded the prisoner 
time to recover a little, to struggle up from where he had fallen, 
and to stagger off in a strange confused state, feeling all the 
while as if his head had been wrenched off. 

Each moment, however, gave him force ; he heard the shouts 
of the men as they leaped down from the platform ; and as the 

light of the torch flashed upon his path, he seemed to regain his 
strength, and ran on with his guards in full pursuit. 

The young man set his teeth hard, and grasped the weapon 
supplied to him by his father's hand. He was far from being 
bloodthirsty ; contact with the English had softened and changed 
his nature, but in those fierce moments the feeling was upon him 
strong that he could slay or be slain sooner than give up his 
liberty once more. 

He recalled his dream of the early morning as he dashed on, 
and wondered whether the leader was the first man in the pur- 
suit, and whether they two would engage in deadly strife. 

He glanced back, but he could not tell ; and hurrying on, he 
kept recalling the difficulties he had encountered in his dream ¡ª 
elephant holes ¡ª woven undergrowth ¡ª trailing canes ¡ª the hun- 
dred obstacles of a jungle, and wondered that he kept so well in 
the darkness to the path, and was able to progress at so swift a 
pace. 

Not that it was swift, for he had to proceed very cautiously, 
but it was fast enough to enable him to keep well ahead of his 
pursuers, who had to make sure that they did not pass him on 
the way. 

But this easy going was not to last, for he found the jungle 
track grew worse, and to his horror he found that his pursuers 





were gaining upon him rapidly. The light the first man carried 
enabled them to see a few yards in advance and make sure their 
steps, while he had what seemed like a black wall rising in front 
of him, into which he had to plunge as it were, and often and 
often found that he was straying from the track. 

At last he strayed so far from it that his pursuers came up 
rapidly, their light showing him the path he had lost. He was 
about to make a rush for it, when the thought struck him that 
they might pass him unseen, and, crouching down, to his great 
delight he found that they did pass on ¡ª the whole party ¡ª leaving 
him to deliberate on what course he should pursue. 

The simplest plan seemed to be to turn back, but that would 
be taking him away from the river, which he felt would be his 
saving to reach, and to gain that he must pursue the track his 
guards were upon. 

After all, if he kept at a distance this was the safest plan. 
His enemies carried a light, and he would therefore be able to 
see them when they returned, if return they did ; and to his 
great delight he remembered now that some distance ahead 
there was a track which led right away from the present one to- 
wards the river, making a shorter cut. 

He did not stop to think, but at once followed the course 
taken by his guards, hastening his steps till he was pretty close 
behind ¡ª so close that he could hear their voices, and see the 
flaring of the torch through the undergrowth. 

This went on for nearly an hour, when the Malays awakened 
fully to the fact that their prisoner had not gone in that direc- 
tion, and they returned upon their track so suddenly that Ali had 
barely time to force his way in amongst the canes and crouch 
down, silent and breathless, before they were back, and were 
passing the place where the young man was hidden, when the 
bearer of the torch saw the broken canes and leaves, and drew 
attention thereto, 

" Tiger I " said the man nearest to him, and he pointed to 
some footprints which were sufficiently recent to satisfy the other, 
and to Ali's great relief they passed on. 

For a few moments he had felt that he was once more a 
prisoner, and now he breathed freely again, and waiting till the 
last rustle of the canes and undergrowth had died away with 
the faint gleam of the torch, he crept painfully out from amidst 
the thorny undergrowth, and continued his retreat. 

He paused from time to time to listen, but all was silent now, 
and almost feeling his way through the dark forest, he pressed 
on, gladdened now and then by a glimpse of the starry sky, he 





continued his course, till he reached the edge of the river, rolling 
swift and dark through the midst of the dense forest. 

Ali had heard the strange sounds on either side of the dark 
track he had come along, more than once shuddering slightly 
as he heard the cry of a tiger or the curious coo-ai of the argus 
pheasant, but nothing sounded so pleasant to him during his 
excitmg retreat as the strange, low, untiring rush of the great 
river. 

There was no noisy babbling, but a soft, low, hissing rush, as 
the swift stream hurried amidst the stones and water washed 
roots of the trees upon the banks. 

He had hoped to find a boat somewhere about the end of the 
track, where there was a wretched campong ; but there did not 
seem to be a single sampan, and he tramped wearily down the 
bank, till he came near the houses opposite the island. 

He dared go no further along the bank, lest he should be 
seized ; and he stood in the shade of a tree at last, thinking of 
what he should do. 

But one course was open to him, and that was to swim out 
into the swift stream, and make for the head of the island, where, 
to his great delight, all seemed perfectly still, and free from 
alarm. How long it would keep so, he could not say. 

There was no other way for him, and being a swift swimmer 
he hesitated no longer, but throwing off his baju and sarong, 
he walked out as far as he could and swam boldly towards the 
head of the island, where he meant to land. 

To his horror he found a couple of boats in the way, both of 
them well filled with men, and it was only by letting himself 
float down with the stream that he was able to pass them 
unnoticed. This, however, completely carried him out of his 
reckoning, for on striving once more to reach the head of the 
island, he was too low down, and was swept right away. He 
tried for the landing-place, but he could not near it, and in 
spite of his desperate efforts he was drawn on lower and lower by 
the heavy stream, so that he could not even grasp at the drooping 
trees at the lower end of the island, but found himself carried 
right away towards the lights of the corvette, where she lay a 
quarter of a mile lower down. 

Knowing that he could not catch at anything on the smooth 
sides of the steamer, he made another frantic effort to reach 
the side of the island, but it was labour in vain, and at I st, 
weak, exhausted, and with the water rising higher and higher 
about his lips, he felt that he was being carried right away, and 
that, unless help came, he would be drowned. 





He grew excited and struggled harder, but only to weaken 
himself. He was confused by the darkness, and found that he 
had miscalculated his powers. The strain upon him during the 
past two days, and the efforts he had made that night, had been 
greater than he was aware of; and now, in spite of the sterling 
stuff of which he was made, the chill, dread thought came upon 
him that he was about to die. 

The lights of the steamer seemed very near, and yet far distant, 
for a blinding mist was before his eyes ; and though he swam 
bravely, over and over again the swift current seemed to suck 
him down. He essayed to cry for help, but the water choked 
him ; and at last he felt that all was over, that he should in 
another minute be swept past the steamer, when, trying to turn 
over and float, he went under, rose to the surface once more, 
struck against something and clutched at it, to find it slimy 
and hard to hold ; but it enabled him to hold his head above 
water a few moments, while he cried for help ¡ª lost his hold, and 
was swept away once more, when all seemed dreamy and strange. 
The water thundered in his ears, his limbs were helpless, and it 
was as if he were being wpited into a strange and troublous sleep, 
when he knew no more, for all seemed blank. 



CHAPTER XXXIX. 

HOW ALl BROUGHT NEWS, AND WAS NOT BELIEVEB. 

There was plenty of excitement on board the steamer, as the 
falls were hooked on and the light gig was run up to the davits, 
the boat then being swung on board ; and as lights were 
brought, the body of the man they had tried to save was laid upon 
the deck, 

" Why, it*s a nigger ! " exclaimed Bob Roberts ; and then, 
with a cry of horror, " Oh, Mr Johnson, it's old All ! Here, 
quick ; help, brandy ! Oh, he's dead ! he*s dead ! " 

" No, he aren*t, sir," said Dick gruffly ; " leastwise, I don't 
think so." 

" Carry him into the cabin," said Lieutenant Johnson sharply ; 
and this being done, the poor fellow was stripped, briskly rubbed, 
and the customary plans adopted to restore respiration. Bob 
Roberts eagerly taking his turn, till, to his delight, as he watched 
Ali's arms being worked up and down, so as to empty and fill his 
chest, there was a faint flutter, a sigh, and the doubts as to the 
young Malay's life being spared were at an end. 

" Hooray ! " cried Bob, who was only in his shirt and trousers, 
his collar open, and his sleeves rolled right up to his shoulders. 
" Hooray ! " he cried ; and forgetting all his dignity as second 
officer in command of Her Majesty's ship, he indulged in a kind 
of triumphal dance, which ended with a flop, caused by his 
bringing one foot down flat on the cabin floor. 

" I think that will do, Mr Roberts," said the lieutenant quietly ; 
and Bob coloured up and looked confused, 

" I felt so delighted, sir, to see the poor old chap better," he 
stammered. 

" So I see,'* said the lieutenant. " There, put on your jacket, 
and give the men a glass of grog apiece for what they have 
done towards saving our friend here. Dick, there, has pretty 
well rubbed his skin ofl"." 

" Well, sir," said Dick in an ill-used tone, " I rubbed as hard 
as ever I could" 




" That you did, Dick," said the middy. 

*' And he is coming to, sir," continued Dick, 

" Yes," said the lieutenant, " a good sleep will set him right, 
I think. It is a pity the doctor has gone on the expedition ; but 
we must do the best we can." 

" Expedition ! " said Bob sharply, " of course ; but I thought 
All here had gone. He was going. Oh, I know ; he has 
stopped behind because Tom Long and I were not going.'' 

" Very likely," said the lieutenant drily ; " but had you not 
better see about the men's refreshment ? " 

" Oh ] yes, sir ; of course," said Bob, hurrying on his Jight 
jacket ; and Dick and a couple of men, who had been helpings 
followed him out of the cabin, smiling and wiping their lips in 
anticipation of the promised drink. 

They had hardly left the cabin when Ali opened his eyes, and 
lay gazing up at the ceiling, then, in a curious, puzzled way, at 
the light, his mind struggling to recover itself and master his 
confusion. 

A sigh and a few muttered words took the lieutenant to his 
side ; and on seeing him Ali started, and said something to him 
in the Malay tongue. 

** Are you better ? " said the lieutenant kindly. 

" Better?" he said, " better ? Where am I ? what place is this ?'' 

" You are on board the steamer. We found you drowning in 
the river." 

Ali clasped his forehead with his hands for a few moments,, 
and then all seemed to come back like a flood. 

" Yes," he said hoarsely, " I know now. I was swimming to 

the island." 

" I see ; and you were swept away," said the lieutenant kindly. 

" I think you had better lie down, and have a good sleep/' he 

continued, as the young man struggled up. 

" No, no J " cried Ali excitedly- " I recollect all now. Quick ! 
call your men ; there is great danger ! *' 

''Come, come," said the lieutenant gently, "calm yourself. 
Try and sleep. 

He laid his hand firmly on the young man's arm, but Ali 

caught his wrist. 

" What, do you think," he cried, " that I am speaking no 
sense ? " 

" Well," said the lieutenant, smiling, " I think you are excited 

and ill" 

" No, no," cried AIL " Give me clothes ; I will fight for yoiu 

There is danger 1 " 




" Nonsense 1 " said the lieutenant. " There, lie down ; and 
Roberts, your friend, you know, shall come and sit with you." 

" Oh, listen to me ! " cried Ali piteously. " I am not as you 
think. I swam off to warn you, Hamet has got half your men 
away by treachery, I am sure they are going to attack you, 
Quick ! get ready ; there is great, great danger ! Give me clothes, 
and I'll fight for you ! " 

As he spoke excitedly, Bob Roberts entered the cabin, and 
stood listening. 

" Come and speak to him, Roberts/' said the lieutenant 
quietly. " Poor fellow ! he is overdone, and it has flown to his 
head." 

" Ah I You here ? " cried Ali joyfully. " He will not believe 
me, Bob. Listen ; there is going to be an attack made upon 
you ¡ª at the island, and here. They have got your men and 
officers away to lead them into a trap. I escaped to tell you." 

" Oh I come, old chap, don't talk like that," cried Bob, taking 
his hand. " Don*t talk such wild nonsense and bosh. Lie 
down and have a good sleep. I say, Mr Johoson, I wish old 
Bolter was here." 

"You do not believe me !" cried Ali passionately. "What 
am I, that you treat me so ? Is it that I always lie ? " 

" Lie ? No, old boy," said Bob kindly ; " but it isn't you 
talking. Your head's all in a muddle," 

"Head? muddle? Not I T' cried Ali excitedly. "There! 
hark ! I told you so ! " 

As he spoke there was the sharp crack of a rifle, then another, 
and another, and a rattling scattered volley. 

"Something wrong at the island, sir," reported one of the 
watch. 

" By Jove ! he's right 1 " cried the lieutenant, rushing out of 
the cabin. " Quick, Roberts I " 

" Yes ¡ª clothes ¡ª my kris i " cried Ali joyfully. " 1*11 fight with 
you." 

For answer Bob ran to his own berth, hastily threw the young 

Malay one of his spare suits ; and then, quickly buckling on his 
sword, ran on deck, where the lieutenant was striding up and 
down, giving his orders. 

" That's right, Roberts," he cried. " They're hard at work at 
the island," 

The next moment Bob was running here and there, seeing 
that his superior's orders were executed. The drums had already 
beat to quarters, and with the wondrous business-like rapidity 
with which matters are done on board a man-of-war every man 



was at his place, the ports flew open, the magazine was un- 
fastened, and while the moorings were cast off astern, and those 
ahead ready to be dropped at a moment's notice, the lumaces 
were roaring furiously, and every effort being made by the fire- 
men to get up steam. 

It was like the turning of a handle. There was no confusion ; 
the whole machine was ready for action ; guns loaded, and 
marines and sailors armed ready for any contingency that might 
befall the steamer. 

Directly after, Ali came hurrying from the cabin, and made 
his way to where the middy was eagerly looking for his next 
order. 

" Give me arms," he said ; " I have lost my kris." 

" And a good thing, too," said Bob sharply ; " a murderous 
skewer I May I give him a sword, sir ? " 

" Yes, and a revolver, if he means to fight on our side," said 
Lieutenant Johnson sharply ; and Bob hurriedly ordered the 
armourer to take the young Malay and supply what was needed. 
" They are making no signals at the island, Roberts," continued 
the lieutenant, " and I don't know what to do, I would man a 
boat and send on ¡ª " 

"Under me, sir?" said Bob slowly. 

" Of course, Mr Roberts ; but we are so short-handed, I don't 
know what to do for the best. Ah I here is your friend. Now, 
sir ; tell us in a few words what this all means." 

Ali rapidly told him of his belief, and the lieutenant frowned. 

" Certainly there is confirmation of what you say, sir," he 
said sternly, " but the story sounds wild and strange." 

He gazed suspiciously at the young chief; but Ali did not 
blench in the slightest degree. 

Just then the firing seemed to become furious on the island, 
and the lieutenant stamped his foot impatiently, 

" How long is this steam going to be?" he cried. ** How I 
hate being tied by the leg like this, Roberts." 

" It's horrible, sir ! " cried Roberts, who was stamping up and 
down the deck, when he was not trying to make out what was 
going on upon the island, by means of a small glass. " Let's do 
something, sir, or the people there will think we are not going to 
help them." 

" What can we do, lieutenant," said the other, " except send 

a boat?" 

" Let's fire a big gun, captain/* said Bob ; ** tliat'll let 'em 
kaow we are all alive; and then send the boat. I'll be very 
careful, sir." 


The lieutenant hesitated as he watched the island through 
his glass, and could see the flashes of the pieces as they were 
fired. In a short time steam would be up, and the vessel could 
pass right round the island and engage the prahus, if there were 
any attacking. Besides, he was very loth to reduce his already 
short ship's company. 

" If it were not already so confoundedly dark," he exclaimed, 
" we could see what to do. Ah ! at last, there goes the signal." 

For just then there was a rushing noise, and a rocket went up 
from the island, far into the blackness of the night, burst, and 
the bright blue stars fell slowly, lighting up the palms and fruit- 
trees upon the island. 

*' Ready there with a rocket," exclaimed the lieutenant. " Be 
smart, Mr Roberts." 

' Ay, ay, sir," was the reply ; and with a mighty rush away on 
high sped the answering signal, to burst and fill the air above 
them with lambent light 

"That is better than your big gun, Roberts,'* said the lieu- 
tenant. 

" No, sir, I don't think it is," said Bob, " for it won't frighten 
the niggers, and my gun would." 

The night seemed to have come on darker than ever, and the 
rocket stars shone with wonderful brilliancy as they descended 
lower, and lower, and lower, some even to reach the water before 
they went out, and just as the last was floating down, AH, who 
was close to the two officers, suddenly started, grasped Bob's arm, 
and exclaimed sharply, ¡ª 

" Prahus ! " 

He was pointing with one hand down the stream, but on the 
middy gazing in the required direction it was too dark to see 
anything. 

" I can see none," he said. " Where?" 

" Two prahus coming up rapidly," said All ; " be ready to fire." 

" Not so fast, young sir," said the lieutenant. " Will that 
steam never be up ? Roberts," he cried, " touch the trigger of 
that life-buoy." 

The middy obeyed, and a life-buoy dropped over the side 
with a splash, a port-fire at the same moment bursting out into 
a brilliant blue glare, which, as the buoy floated down rapidly 
with the stream, lit up the trees on either shore, made the water 
flash, but above all showed out plainly to all on board a couple 
of large prahus coming rapidly up the stream, the many sweeps 
out on either side making the water foam and flash in the blue 
light shed by the buoy. 



now ALT BROUGHT NEWS. 239 

"There!" said Ali excitedly, "they are Rajah Gantang's 
prahus. Fire at them." 

" Not so fast, sir/* said the lieutenant. " I must first be sure 
that they are enemies." 

He was soon assured of that fact, for as the steamer was lit up 
by the port-fire as well as the prahus, bang, bang, bang, bang, one 
after the other, came the reports of the brass guns the two long 
boats had on board, and a hail of small iron balls came whisthng 
through the rigging. 

*' There's no doubt about it now," said the lieutenant grimly ; 
and giving the orders as the prahus rapidly advanced, evidently 
with the intention of boarding, the two big guns on the port- 
side thundered out a reply, splashing the water all over one 
prahu, and going through the matting boarding-screen of the 
other ] but otherwise doing no harm. 

The prahus replied, and for a few minutes there was a sharp 
duel kept up, at the end of which time the oars were seen being 
swiftly plied, and the two boats went on up stream at a rapid 
rate, the steamer firing at them as long as they were visible by 
the lights they had on board. 

"Was anything ever so vexatious?" cried the lieutenant. 
" Here we lie like a log upon the water. Will that steam never 
be up?'' 

Just then the welcome news was given, and the order was 

passed down to the engine-room ; the screw began to revolve, 

and the men cheered as the vessel's head was freed from the 

buoy to which she had been moored, and they began to steam 

rapidly in the wake of the two prahus, whose lights had evidently 
passed to the left of the island. 

Meanwhile a sharp engagement had evidently been going on 
in the neighbourhood of the little fort. Once or twice the nine- 
pounder they had there spoke out, but the principal part of the 
firing was that of rifles. Lights were seen from the deck, here 
and there amidst the trees, and were moving upon the shore, 
where the people were evidently in a state of alarm. Still the 
occupants of the island seemed to be making a good fight, and 
the lieutenant felt that he could not be doing them better service 
than by disposing of the two prahus, and to this end the 
steamer went on, its commander having a sharp look-out kept^ 
and a man busy with the lead in the forepart of the vessel. 

At the end of a few minutes the lights on the prahus were 
seen ; the order, " Full speed ahead I " given, for they were now 
in the middle of the open reach of the river, and Lieutenant 
Johnson hoped to sink one or the otha: of his adversaries by 
using a little energy. 





The shadowy shapes of the two boats were made out at the 
end of a minute, and a couple of guns were brought to bear upon 
them, the firing being replied to for a time, the flashes from 
the guns serving to light up the darkness of the night for a 
moment, while the roar of the big guns went rolling along the sur- 
face of the water, and was echoed from the trees upon the bank. 

" Keep that lead going more quickly/' shouted the lieutenant, 
as the last of the prahus, apparently unharmed, passed round 
the head of the island, placing the wooded land between her 
and the steamer, which followed rapidly in their wake. 

The lieutenant's orders were obeyed, and the sounding 
shouted by the man who handled the lead line. 

The river was very deep, but as no good chart existed, and 
it was dark, extra caution was being used, and all was going 
on well. In another minute she would have rounded the 
bend of the island and been in full chase of the fleet enemy, 
when just as the man had shouted out the depth, there was a 
sudden shock, which threw several men off their legs, and to the 
dismay of all, the steamer was tightly fixed upon a mudbank, 
every effort to release her only seeming to make her settle 
more firmly down. And this at a moment when her presence 
might serve to change the fortunes of the attack being made 
upon the residency. 



CHAPTER XL. 



HOW PRIVATE GRAY WENT A FISHING. 

Private Gray had hard work to seem composed as he went 
away to execute his orders. The remarks of Captain Smithers 
had come like an endorsement of his own suspicions, and in 
imagination he saw the island given over to violence and rapine, 
as a large force of savage Malays who resented the coming of the 
English took advantage of the present state of weakness and 
carried all before them. 

He felt as if a strange pallor was taking the place of the ruddy, 
sunburnt hue of his face, and he turned sick as he thought of 
Miss Linton and her cousin j of the major's wife, and those of 
several of the soldiers. 

It would be horrible, he thought; but the next moment his 
strength of nerve returned, and feeling that the safety of all might 
depend upon the energy he displayed in his mission, he hurried 
on towards the fort 

As he went along under the shade of the trees, he recalled 
that which he had seen when on duty a night or two back, and 
wondered whether there was any cause for suspicion in the boat 
he believed that he had seen over the dark river gliding in so 
shadowy a way. Then he remembered the sounds he had 
heard ; and lastly, he recalled various little things in Abdullah's 
behaviour, that, trifles in themselves, now seemed to be strangely 
significant. 

By this time he reached the fort, on entering which he found 
Sergeant Lund perspiring profusely, as with big clumsy unsuited 
hands he fingered a pen, and wrote laboriously his report, while 
Private Sim, who had not declared himself ill for a week, lay back 
under a tree fast asleep. 

He was a very unlovely man was Private Sim, especially when 
asleep, for at this time he opened his mouth very wide, and 
around it the busy flies were flitting;, evidently taking it for the 




flower oi some new kind of orchis or carnivorous plant> and they 
buzzed about and around it as if enjoying tbe fun of going as 
near as they could without quite getting into danger. That it 
was a fly-trap one big sage-looking insect seemed certain, for he 
settled on the tip of Private Sim's nose, and seemed to be en- 
gaged in making sudden flights and buzzings at young unwary 
flies as they came near and into danger, driving them away from 
the yawning cavern just below. 

Gray smiled to himself as these ideas flashed across his brain, 
and then he walked up to the sergeant 

* ' Which ¡ª which ¡ª that ¡ª which ¡ª or which ¡ª but which ¡ª in 
which ¡ª for which ¡ª to which ¡ª phew ! this is hot work, I wondei 
which would be best. Ah ! Gray, sit down here a minute, my 
lad, and tell me what to say. I've been hours over this 
report." 

" I am off on special business directly, sergeant," said Gray ; 
" but let me see." 

He read over the sergeant^s report, and then dictated half-a- 
dozen lines, which that officer wrote down as quickly as he could. 
" I shall copy it out afterwards," he said, " neat and clean. Go 
on, my lad, go on." 

Gray dictated a few more lines, which ended the report in a 
short, concise manner, and Sergeant Lund's face, which had 
been all in corrugations, smoothed itself into a satisfied 

smile. 

" That's beautiful," he said, looking up at the private admir- 
ingly. " I shall copy that all out in a neat hand, and the thing's 
done. I say. Gray, how do you do it ? Here, what takes me 
hours, only takes you minutes \ and while it's hard labour to me 
to get it into shape, you run it off" like string from a ball, Thanky, 
my lad, thanky. Now what can I do for you ?" 

'* I want a bayonet and a revolver, with ammunition, directly," 

said Gray. 

" What for ? " 

" Captain's orders, and private," said Gray, showing Captain 
Smithers' card, with a few lines pencilled thereon. 

"Right," said the sergeant bluffly. ** I'm not an inquisitive 
man. Come along. Gray." 

He led the way into the part of the fort used as an armoury, 
and furnished the required weapons, which Gray proceeded to 
button up under his jacket. 

" Oh ! that's the game is it, my lad ? " he said. " Then look 
here ; don't take those clumsy tools ; any one can see that 
you've got weapons hidden there. I'll lend you this little 




revolver ; it's handier, and will do quite as much mischief. You 
can have this dirk, too, with the belt." 

He brought out a handsome little revolver, about half the 
weight and size of the hea\7 military " Colt " previously supplied; 
and also a well made, long, thin dirk, with a thin belt. 

" There, my lad ! " he said, buckling on the belt under Gray's 
jacket, and then thrusting the revolver into a little leather pouch. 
" There, you are now fitted up sensibly, and no one would be the 
wiser. Stop a moment, you must fill your pocket with cartridges. 
Let me have those things back safe, and I hope you won't have 
to use them ; but being ready, my lad, is half the battle. You 
know I'm never ill." 

" No, sergeant ; you have excellent health." 

" Right, my lad, I do ; and I'll tell you why : I bought the 
biggest box of pills I could get before I left London. Four-and- 
six I gave for it, and I have never taken one. Diseases come, 
and they know as well as can be that I've got that box of 
big pills ¡ª reg'lar boluses ¡ª in my kit ; and they say to them- 
selves, 'This man's ready for action, with his magazine well 
stored ! ' and they go somewhere else." 

" I see, sergeant," said Gray, smiling. "Good-bye! " 

" Good-bye, my lad, good-bye. Here, nobody's looking. 
Sim's asleep. Shake hands, my lad, shake hands. You see, 
as your superior officer that's a bit of stooping on my part ; 
but, between man and man, I, Sergeant Lund, look up to you, 
Private Gray, and always feel as if we ought to change 
places." 

" Good-bye, sergeant," said Gray, shaking hands warmly with 
the sergeant, " and I echo your wish that I may not have to use 
the weapons ; keep a sharp look out." 

" You leave that to me, private," said the bluff sergeant, and 
he nodded his head as Gray went off upon his mission. 

It was rather an awkward one, for he wished to watch Abdullah 
without exciting his attention. Gray thought, however, that he 
might prove a match for the Malay, and as he wandered slowly 
along he begari to consider what he should do ? 

The first idea that suggested itself was that he should go to 
Dullah and sit there and eat fruit ; but he discarded the idea 
directly as too palpable a way of watching. He felt that the 
Malay would suspect him directly, as he was not a man who was 
in the habit of visiting the hut. 

No ; he must have some better plan than that, but no idea 
struck him for a few minutes, till happening to glance at the flow- 
ing river, the notion came, and ^oing straijxht back he was soon 



after seen sauntering down to the river, armed with a long 
bamboo, a fishing line, and some bait, with which he proceeded 
to fish as soon as he reached the river, but having no sport he 
began to grow impatient, fishing here and there, but alwaj^ 
getting nearer to Dullah's hut, where he remained seated on 
the bank, fishing very perseveringly to all appearance, and occa- 
sionally landing a little barbel-like fellow, known by the natives 
as Ikan Sambilang, or fish of nine, from the number of little 
barbs beneath its mouth. 

Gray fished on, never once turning his head to see what was 
going on at the hut, but making the keenest use of his ears. He 
made out, while landing a fish or re-baiting his hook, that there 
were a couple of sampans lying there, in which were some 
Malays who appeared to be basking in the sunshine ; and soon 
after his quick ears told him plainly enough that some one, whom 
he believed to be DuUah, was approaching. 

As the Malay came nearer, it was to find Gray's rod Ijdng in 
the water, and the soldier, apparently overcome by the heat, 
sitting in a heap, witli his chin down upon his chest, regardless 
of the fact that a little fish was upon its hook, tugging away to 
get free. 

Dullah seemed about to speak to the intruder ; but seeing this, 
he refrained, contenting himself with examining Gray closely, 
and then going slowly back. 

" That will not do to report," thought Gray. " He saw me 
fishing, and he came to see what I had caught, and then went 
away. I must have something better than that" 

However, he had obtained a position whence, unsuspected, he 
could sit and watch what went on at the hut \ for after satisfying 
himself as he had, it was not likely that the Malay would trouble 
himself any more about the presence of the private so near his 
place. 

So Gray sat there, apparently fast asleep, all through the after- 
noon. 

The night closed in as the sun went down rapidly, as is the 
case near the equator, and still Gray felt that he had nothing 
to report. Two men rose up once in the sampan nearest to 
Duilah's hut, but they appeared to lie down again amongst their 
fruit baskets ; and Dullah himself, the last time Gray saw him, 
was seated peacefully smoking by his verandah. 

As it became dark. Gray ran over in his mind the positions 
of the various sentries, and thought of how soon he could get 
help, should he need it ; and then, after a little thought, he came 





to the conclusion that he ought to make his way to the fort, and 
tell Captain Smithers of his want of success. 

Just then the glimmering of the stars in the water put an idea 
in his head. He paused for a moment, as the proceeding was so 
risky ; but on consideration he felt that, if he carried out his 
plan, he would know for certain whether mischief was brewing. 
So, giving up his intention of going back to the fort at present, 
he proceeded to put his plan into execution. 



CHAPTER XLI. 



THE VALUE OF PRIVATE SIM. 

Whkre Adam Gray had been seated fishing the bank was about 
three feet above the surface of the water, and this clayey bank 
was either perpendicular, or so hollowed out beneath by the 
action of the river, that if any one had the courage to lower 
himself into the water, here about four feet deep, and to cling to 
the tangled vegetation, and wade along close to the over-hanging 
bank, he could pass right up to Dullah's hut unperceived- 

There was danger, of course ; for the stream ran swiftly, and 
the venturesome wader might be swept away. A crocodile, too, 
might be lurking beneath the bank ; but the business was so 
important that Gray resolutely set his face against the idea ot 
danger, telling himself that it was his duty ; and leaving his rod 
upon the bank, he quietly lowered himself into the river, 
the cold water sending a sharp shock through him as he 
stood, breast high, holding on by some tangled roots, while the 
water pressed against him, with no little force, as it ran. 

He paused there for a few minutes listening, half fancying that 
he had heard a noise, and that the slight splash he made might 
have been noted by Dullah or the men on the sampans ; and as 
he listened, sure enough there was a dull noise, as of a blow, 
followed by a little rustling, and then, just above his head, he 
could hear somebody breathing hard, as if after some exer- 
tion. 

Gray did not stir ; and fortunately he was quite concealed by 
the overhanging bank, as a Malay, down upon his hands and 

knees, leaned over the edge and looked up and down the 

river. 

For the moment Gray felt that he must be seen, and his hand 
stole involuntarily towards his breast in search of a weapon ; 
but he was in utter darkness beneath the bank, and the man's 
eyes were more directed outward. 

The result was that the Malay, who, kris in hand, had crept 




cautiously irom DuUah's hut right up through the undergrowth 
and long grass to where he believed the Englishman to be fishing, 
drew cautiously back, and crept once more away. 

Gray remained motionless for a few moments, and then, 
convinced that this meant ill to him, he began to wade cautiously 
along towards where the sampans lay in the stream, some thirty 

yards away. 

He moved very slowly, so as to nvake no plash in the water, 
which sometimes, as the river shallowed, came only to his waist, 
while at other times it nearly reached his chin ; and had he not 
clung tightly to the water-washed roots and depending bushes, he 
must have been swept away. 

Gray had gone about half the distance ; and as he neared the 
sampans, whose forms he vainly tried to make out in the dark- 
ness, to his horror, he found that something was moving towards 
him in the water. 

Quick as lightning he drew the long, keen dirk from his belt, 
and stood ready to thrust, for it was either a crocodile or some 
large animal, he felt sure; but directly after he stood holding 
on by his left hand to a bunch of tangled root hanging from the 
bank, and felt his heart seem to stand still, for, to his surprise, 
he plainly made out that it was a man, wading in the opposite 
direction, and evidently for a similar purpose to his own. 

It was, in fact, one of the Malays from the nearest sampan, 
who, while a companion had undertaken to stalk the Englishman 
from the shore, as he sat there asleep, had set off from the boat, 
meaning to get there at the same time as his friend, but had 
miscalculated the period it would take. 

He was now coming along cautiously, and had nearly reached 
Gray in the darkness before he became aware of his presence. 

As soon, though, as he made out that it was the Englishman who 
was before him, he made a lunge forward, striking at Gray with 
his kris j but the latter avoided the blow and prepared to close 
with his antagonist, feeling as he took a step back, that the 
result would probably be death for both, for they must be swept 
away by the swift stream. 

Just then the Malay seemed to leap at him, but at the same 
moment he uttered a smothered cry, which was silenced directly 
by the rushing water, and Gray found that he was alone. 

He needed no telling that one of the loathsome reptiles of the 
river had been close at hand, and had seized his enemy ; his 
wonder was that he himself had not been the victim. 

It was enough to paralyze the bravest heart, and for a few 
minutes Gray clung to the roots of the tree beside him, feeling 




sick and giddy, and as if some reptile was only waiting for his 
next movement to drag him down. 

It was fortunate for him that he did not stir, for the Malay's 
cry had alarmed his companions, who could be heard talking 
quickly and in whispers, close at hand. 

At first it seemed to Gray that they were coming to the help 
of their unfortunate companion, but this did not prove to be 
the case. They knew what had happened, from old experience, 
and accepted the accident as one of the misfortunes to which 
they were heirs, troubling themselves no more about the matter. 

Recovering himself somewhat, but feeling all the time that any 
moment he might be seized, Gray crept once more slowly along, 
till he stood with the water nearly to his shoulders, beneath the 

overhanging bank, by Dullah*s hut, and between it and the two 
sampans. 

The place was admirably suited for concealment, for now 
little more than his head was above water, and that he had con- 
trived should lie behind a screen of drooping verdure, which 
made his chilly hiding-place so dark that he could not have been 
seen twelve inches away. 

Having escaped from the reptiles so far, he felt more hope- 
ful ; and as he stood there, behind his screen, he began to try 
and make his position valuable. 

He had not long to wait for this. In less than a minute, a 
voice, that he took for Abdullah's, was whispering to some one 
on the river, and a sampan came so close in to the bank that 
had he stretched out his hand he could have touched the side. 

It was a grief to him that he was not thoroughly conversant 
with the Malay tongue, but he had picked up a good deal, and 
had mastered a sufficiency to catch the import of the words 

he heard. 

The principal was an order that the orang should come 
ashore, the order being given by DuUak 

What was the orang i 

He puzzled for a few moments, as the sampan pushed off. 
Orang-outang I Was this after all a trading visit, and they were 
going to bring some great monkey ashore. 

Orang-outang ¡ª man of the woods, of course. Orang meant 
man or men, and the men were to land. There was danger 
then, and men were to land. That was enough, and now he 
would go and give warning ; but he could not move without 
being heard, and he had to remain listening, as there was 
the faint beat of oars, and then, though he could hardly see 
them, two lont; row boats of great size seemed to come up out 





of the darkness, and he felt more than saw that they were full 
of men. 

What was the sentry about ? There was one so near that he 
ought to have seen or heard their coming, and Gray listened 
eagerly for the report of his piece giy'ir\g the alarm. 

But no report came, for the sentry had not heard. He had 
not been krissed, but as far as giving alarm was concerned 
he might have been dead; for the sentry close at hand was 
Private Sim, and he was fast asleep. 



CHAPTER XLIL 



WHY DULLAH CAME TO THE ISLE, 



Every moment that passed was more convincing to Adam 
Gray that DuUah was a traitor, and at the head of affairs for 
making a descent upon the island. In place of two long row 
boats, each carrying some fifty or sixty men, it was evident now 
that there were four, and they were being cautiously forced up 
to the landing-place, where, under the orders of Dullah, several 
men ashore were ready to make them fast 

Directly after, coming like a revelation, Gray learned what 
a snake they had had concealed in the grass at the jungle- 
station ; for as he listened, intently watching the while for an 
opportunity to escape, he heard Dullah's voice, and then those 
of his men addressing him as rajah. Directly after he heard a 

voice on one of the large boats asking for Rajah Gantang, which 
was replied to by Dullah. 

There was the secret then of this man's presence on the island. 
It was Rajah Gantang himself who had come among them, to 
seek his opportunity for overthrowing the English, and now 
his opportunity had come. 

Gray ground his teeth with rage at his impotence, and he tried 
to get away unperceived, as it became evident that the nearest 
sentry heard nothing. Still at any moment there might come 
the warning shot from his rifle ; for though everything was very 
plain to him, hidden in the midst of the Malays, it was quite 
horrible that not a sound might reach the most attentive of 
sentries, especially as every word was spoken in a whisper. 

It seemed impossible to get away without discovery. The 
slightest movement would have made his presence known, so 
closely had the boats come in. 

Still no alarm was raised. 

Then Gray began hoping that Captain Smithers or Ensign 
ix>ng nngnt be going the rounds, and his dread was lest they 





should fall into some trap. It was for him, then, to warn them, 
but how? 

The water was very cold, and seemed to Gray to be the 
cause of the chill that struck to his heart as he stood there 
wondering, and listened to what was evidently a rapid de- 
barkation. 

Suddenly, as in imagination, he saw these merciless men 
gaining an entry to the fort and massacring all there, he recalled 
the fact that he possessed a pistoL A shot or two from that 
would give alarm to the sentries. 

And bring certain death upon himself I 

Well, he thought, as he paused for a few moments, why not ? 
If he, by giving up his life could save those at the fort ¡ª his 
officers, comrades, the ladies, and the rest, ought he to hesitate 
¡ª would he be doing more than his duty ? 

It was a hard struggle. Life was very sweet, and he had but 
to remain perfectly still to escape. Did he move, a dozen spears 
and krisses would be at his breast directly. 

He smiled as he told himself he was not hesitating, but that 
all he wished to do was his duty; and without a moment's 
hesitation he drew the little revolver from its pouch, held it out 
as high as he could, and drew the trigger. 

For answer there came a sharp click, and he knew that the 
water had damaged the cartridge. 

He tried again, with no other result than the noise of the 
fall of the hammer; and then DuUah's, or Rajah Gantang's, voice 
was heard in a reproving tone as he bade his men be silent 

Gray tried again, but for tho third time the cartridges, soaked 
as they were by being under water so long, refused to go off. But 
at his fifth and sixth pulls there were a couple of lines of light, 
and Gray felt astonished as he heard how loud were the reports 
the little weapon made. 

For with a couple of bright flashes that seemed to the 
astonished Malays to come out of the surface of the river, there 
were as many echoing reports, and as they rang out they were 
answered by sentry after sentry about the island, the last shot 
being fired by Private Sim, close at hand, after which he ran for 
his life. 

There was a* sharp keen order at this, and the boats' heads 
were forced up to the bank, one of their prows crushing right 
in upon Gray even to touching him, but saving his life for the 
moment, as it concealed his position from the enemies, who 
were vainly trying to make out in the darkness who had given 
the alarm. 




Gray had not a moment to lose ; already spears were being 
thrust beneath the bank to right and left of him. His only 
chance was to dive right beneath the keel of the nearest boat 
and swim down the river for his life. 

He did not pause to think of the risk ¡ª the alarm had been 
given, and he had the satisfaction of knowing that every one 
would be on the alert ¡ª as he dived down, passed beneath the 
keel of the first boat, and then beneath the next, keeping under 
water all he could till he was fifty yards or so from the nearest 
prahu, when he struck out for the shore. 

The current ran very strong where he now was, and soon 
took him beyond reach of pursuit ; but it had its disadvantages, 
for as he swam he felt that if he did not use every effort he 
would be swept right down the river. And now, too, came the 
dread of the crocodiles, and he swam on, expecting each moment 
to feel the teeth of one of the monsters, and to be snatched down 
into the depths of the river to a horrible death. 

Meanwhile, shots were being fired on the island; he heard 
drum and bugle calling to the muster, and relieved of the fear 
that Captain Smithers would be surprised, he fought on manfully 
with the swift stream. 

His efforts seemed in vain, for though he had contrived to 
get pretty close to the shore, the current ran so strong that he 
saw himself swept by the dark line of trees and into the stream 
below. 

His only hope now seemed to be to make for the steamer, 
whose lights he could see below him ; but involuntarily almost 
he turned and made a fresh effort to reach the island, when, to 
his great delight, he found himself in a strong eddy, and after 
five minutes' swimming he was able to catch at the overhanging 
branches of a tree and draw himself up close to the muddy 
bank, where he remained, panting for a few minutes, longing to 
draw himself out on to dry land, but too weak and exhausted, 
half paralyzed too, as he thought of how the great reptiles had 
their haunts in the hollows beneath the river's banks. 

At last, though, his heart beat less painfully, and he gently 
reached up one hand above the other, made a strong effort, and 
then lay panting beneath the trees, with the water running from 
him in a stream. ' 

Safe from the water and the creatures that haunted the river, 
he had yet to thread his way through the ranks of human tigers 
who were now swarming about the island, as he could tell 
by the flashes and reports of the rifles that were being fired on 
either side. 



He lay there for quite ten minutes, thinking of what would be 
his best plan to pursue, for he had a double peril to encounter 
¡ª namely, the spears of the Malays, and the bullets of his 
comrades, who would be certain to fire at any one they saw 
approaching. Still nothing presented itself to his mind, and he 
at last began to move cautiously forward towards the little fort. 

As he went on through the dense growth with which this part 
of the island was covered, he became aware that the Malays were 
making quite a furious attack upon the place, while it was just 
as evident that they were encountering a serious resistance. To 
his great delight now the field-piece began to speak, and he had 
seen the rocket go up, as a signal to the ship, the bright stars 
lighting up the patch of jungle where he lay to such an extent 
that he shrank close down beneath some shrubs, lest he should 
form a mark for the spear of some Malay. 

Going so slowly and cautiously, it took him some time to get 
near the lines, and then he had to pause, for the flashes and 
reports of the rifles showed him where his enemies were lying, 
and twice over he nearly walked into the midst of a little group 
hiding amidst the trees. 

He had taken the precaution of reloading the little revolver, 
though all the time feeling greatly in doubt as to whether the 
cartridges were not spoiled ; and consequently he relied most 
of all upon his dirk, though he felt that his only chance would 
be to steal through the Malays, and then make a bold dash for 
the gate, shouting the password as he ran. 

He was compelled to crawl as he drew near, for the bullets 
whistled through the trees, cutting off" leaf and twig, and search- 
ing the jungle, as it were, for the enemy, who seemed all around 
him ; for, go which way he would, there was always a party close 
at hand. 

At last, though, he crawled behind some trees, with only an 
open space between him and the fort. He was waiting his 
opportunity; and the moment a sharp, scattered burst of firing 
was over, he rose and ran for his life. 



CHAPTER XLIII. 



TOM LONG HEADS A SALLY PARTY, 

As Adam Gray ran through the darkness, a yell arose from behind 
him, telling him that his act had been seen, and, as if to prevent 
him, half-a-dozen spears came whizzing through the air, one of 
them so close that it grazed his arm ; while, to make matters 
worse, the firing recommenced from the fort. 

By dint of shouting strongly he made himself known, and the 
firing ceased, giving him time to run up to the breastwork, and 
then along it to the gateway, now doubly shut ; but after a little 
parley he was admitted, and found himself in the presence of 
Captain Smithers and Ensign Long. 

" Ah, Gray ! " exclaimed the former, " I had given you up. 
Were those your shots that gave the alarm ? " 

Gray said they were, and in a few concise words told what he 
"had seen. 

" Yes," said Captain Smithers, " we are in for it ; but our friends 
have a tougher job than they imagined." 

During the next half-hour, while they were keeping the enemy 
at bay, they became aware of the fact that an engagement was 
going on between the steamer and some enemy unseen by them, 
though they immediately set it down as being with boats. The 
return signal had been seen, and there was no little comfort in 
the knowledge that the occupants of the steamer were at hand to 
co-operate with and help them, though they little thought of how 
soon the vessel would be rendered almost helpless. 

With the daylight, which was most gladly welcomed, came the 
news that the corvette was ashore ; and on Captain Smithers 
turning round to speak to Ensign Long, he found that young 
gentleman slapping his legs, bending down with laughter, and 
altogether behaving in an exceedingly indecorous manner for 
an officer and a gentleman. 

" Why, Long ! " exclaimed Captain Smithers, " what does this 
mean ? " 





Tom Long flushed up as red as a turkey-cock, and looked at 
his superior officer in the most shamefaced way, 

" I¡ª I¡ª I¡ª" he began, 

" Why, I believe you were delighted to hear that the steamer 
was aground." 

" Well, no, sir ; not that the steamer is aground," said Tom. 
" I ¡ª I ¡ª was not sorry, thougli, that Roberts had made a mess 
of it. He is so bounceable, sir." 

" I'm ashamed of you, Long !" said Captain Smithers 
severely. ** This is no time for silly, boyish spite. Take ten 
men, and make your way down to within hailing distance of the 
vessel, and ask what they mean to do ¡ª hold the corvette, or 
come and take their chance with us ? At once, sir, and act like 
a man." 

Tom Long saluted, and getting Sergeant Lund and nine men, 
made his way out of the little sally-port, and led them along at 
the double, beneath the shelter of the fire from the fort, till they 
were opposite the dense grove of trees which lay between them 
and the steamer. 

It was an awkward and a dangerous task, for not only was 
the piece of forest growth swarming with enemies, but from time 
to time a shot or two from the marines on board the vessel came 
whistling through the trees. 

But Tom Long was smarting from his rebuke. He wanted to 
act like a man, and at heart he knew he had been behaving 
like a boy oi a verj petty disposition, so, with Captain Smithers' 
words yet ringing in his ears, he formed up his men, gave the 
word, and in skirmishing order they dashed through the trees, 
sending the Malays, after they had thrown a few spears, helter- 
skelter to right and left, save a few who were driven out in sight 
of the men on board the steamer, when a few shots sent them oflf 
into cover. 

'* Phew !" ejaculated Sergeant Lund, taking off his cap to wipe 
his wet forehead, and gazing admiringly at the ensign. " That's 
warm work, sir." And then he glanced at the men, who were 
delighted with what they called the ensign's pluck. 

"Warm? yes, sergeant. Quick! some of you fire at those 
niggers ; they are coming back." 

A little volley at half-a-dozen Malays, who were showing 
menacingly on their left, sent them to the right-about, and 
then the men cheered, their cheer being answered from the 
steamer, which was only about thirty or forty yards from the shore. 

" Ensign Long, ahoy ! " cried Bob Roberts, leaping on to the 
bulwarks. " What cheer ? " 


" If you mean how are we getting on, and are we all safe, 
why don't you say so ? " cried the ensign sharply. 

" All right, sir. 1*11 write you a memorandum and a report," 
said Bob Roberts. " Now then, how are you ? " 

" Captain Smithers wants to know whether you are coming 
ashore or going to stay on board." 

**Stay on board, Mr Long," said the lieutenant, who had 
come up. " Are you all well ? *' 

'' Yes, sir, all well." 

*' None wounded ? " 

" No, sir, not one as yet" 

" Tell Captain Smithers that my duty is to stay here with the 
steamer; but if he is hard pressed I will either send him a party 
of sailors and marines, or else we will cover his retreat with his 
gun, if he will come and take refuge on board." 

" Captain Smithers cannot leave his entrenched position, sir," 
said Tom Long stiffly ; " but we can find room for you and 
your crew, if they like to come." 

Tom Long said this so importantly that Bob Roberts began to 
laugh; and no doubt some sharp bandying about of words 
would have followed, had not Lieutenant Johnson said rather 
sternly, ¡ª 

" Tell Captain Smithers, Mr Long, that a rocket sent up by 
night, or three calls of the bugle given sharply without any 
perceptible interval, will bring help from us ; but ask him if any 
steps can be taken to help the expedition." 

" Captain Smithers is of opinion, sir, that the expeditionary 
party is strong enough to take care of itself, and that it is our 
duty to¡ª Oh ! " 

Tom Long blushed for it afterwards ; but a well-thrown 
spear came so close to his ear that he could not avoid an in- 
voluntary cry. The next minute his little party were under 
cover of some trees, and slowly driving back a body of Malays, 
who, however, would have out-flanked them, but for a brisk 
fire kept up on them from the steamer, when they disappeared 
once more into the jungle, with which this part of the island 
was overgrown. When after a few more words with the occupants 
of the steamer, during which Lieutenant Johnson impressed 
upon the ensign that the best thing to be done was to act entirely 
on the defensive, the little sally party started to return, the 
lieutenant promising to do all he could to cover their retreat. 

The distance was not great, but full of peril ; for the minute 
the ^lalays comprehended that Tom Long's party were going 
back, they began to swarm out of their lurking-places, and it 




now became evfdent that hundreds of fighting men must have 
landed on the island. 

"Well, sir/' said Sergeant Lund, wiping his face, as, after 
getting about half-way back, the little party found themselves 
hedged up in a little gully by Malay spears, wiiose holders kept 
themselves hidden behind the trees, ¡ª " well, sir, this is hot, and 
no mistake/' 

** Yes," said Tom Long, excitedly; "but be careful, my lads, 
don't waste a shot ; you must be getting short" 

" The/ve only about six rounds each, sir, now," said the ser- 
geant ; " but they've got the bayonets." 

" Yes," said Tom, as he stood sword in one hand, revolver in 
the other \ " but we mustn't let them get at us with their spears, 
I can't leave a man behind, sergeant." 

" Then we'd better stop as we are for a few minutes, and get 
breath, sir, and then see which is the best way to go." 

The sergeant hurried to a couple of the men who were expo? 
ing themselves a little too freely, and then returned to Tom 
Long, who was standing in the middle of two sides of a triangle 

composed of four men a side, and another forming the apex. 

" I'd make a dash for it, sergeant," said the ensign, " only I 
should be sure to lose some of the boys ; while \i we stop here 
we shall get speared. It's a puzzle, isn't it ? I say, I don't feel 
half so ¡ª so ¡ª " 

"Scared, sir?" 

" Well, yes ; I didn't like to say frightened, sergeant/' replied 
Tom, smiling, "because it sounds %o queer." 

" Ah, sir, you might say anything now before the lads, they 
wouldn't mind ; and after the plucky way you led us on, they'd 
follow you anywhere. But hadn't we better let the enemy have 
a few shot, sir? They're closing in fast." 

Tom Long was about to give the order for which his men 
were anxiously waiting, when he became aware of something 
going on in a clump of palms about forty yards away. 

" What are they doing there, sergeant ? " he said. " Look !'' 

"Getting ready for a rush, sir. Hadn't we better form 
square?" 

" No ; only close up a little," said Tom, sharply, as he set his 
teeth ; for he knew that they were on the brink of a hand-to- 
hand encounter. 

For though pretty well screened by the trees, it was evident 
that a large party of the Malays were getting ready for a rush, 
when bang ¡ª crash^ there was the report of a gun from the steamer, 
followed almost instantly by the bursting of a shell in the y^T'j 




thick of the trees where the Malays had gathered, with the result 
that there was quite an opening rent in that part of the jungle, 
and the threatening party was scattered like chaff. 

" That's what I calls the prettiest shot I ever see,'* said one of 
the men. 

"Forward !" shouted Tom Long, and taking advantage of the 
momentary panic, he hurried his little party on at the double, 
with the result that by the time the Malays again menaced an 
attack, the sally-party were under cover of the guns at the fort, 
and a few minutes later, amidst the cheers of those they had left 
behind, Tom Long led his little party within the gates, not a 
man amongst them having received a scratch. 



CHAPTER XLIV. 



HOW CAPTAIN SMITHERS MADE PLANS. 

There was plenty to do to make the little fort secure, and well 
the men worked- Double their number would not have been 
too strong a garrison, for the Malays mustered thickly now on all 
sides, save that nearest the ship, whose heavy guns had taught 
them the risk of making any display of their presence. 

Captain Smithers would have gladly joined forces with Lieu- 
tenant Johnson, but he was not surprised at his reply, and he 
could only condole with him in respect to the accident that had 
occurred to the steamer, one which would pardy place it hors de 
combat until some flood should cause a rise in the water of the 
river. 

The men vied with each other in executing the orders that 
were given, and in a short time the mess-room and quarters were 
so strengthened that once within, the men felt that the only 
enemy they had to fear was fire, and that they hoped to avoid 
by means of their rifles, and, if needs be, their bayonets. 

It was a terrible time for the women, many of whom had 
husbands with the expedition ; but knowing as they did that the 
major's lady was in the same position as themselves, they tried 
hard to follow her calm and patient example. 

It was only an outward calm though, for poor Mrs Major 
Sandars was suffering keenly, though she tried hard and suc- 
cessfully to speak words of comfort to Rachel Linton and her 
cousin, both of whom went about with her, talking to the soldiers' 
wives, and trying to amuse the children, who at times grew im- 
patient at being forced to keep inside the walls of the barracks, 
the outer enclosure having been long declared unsafe. 

Captain Smithers had sought the ladies, and spoken a few 
words of encouragement to them, gazing very hard at Miss 
Linton as he said, ¡ª 

" You may rely upon us, Miss Linton. I would lay down my 
life sooner than harm should befall you-" 




" I am quite satisfied of that, Captain Smithers," said the lady, 
quietly. " I believe that of the meanest man here. In the 
meantime, I presume that you would like us all to keep within 
the walls." 

" Yes, if you please, Miss Linton," said the young officer, 
coldly ; and then, as he walked away, he muttered, " Yes, she 
believes that of the meanest soldier, and thinks as much of him 
as of me." 

He walked across the open space to the lines where the men 
were placed, the intention being to hold them for the time, and 
if hard pressed, to retire within the barracks and there make 
their stand. 

As he went to the nearest point a bullet whizzed by him, 
sufRciently near to show him that the Malays had not only good 
weapons among them, but men who could shoot straight ; and 
he frowned as he felt that their chance would be but small if under 
some clever leader the Malays should make a bold eifort to take 
the place. 

On reaching the earthworks that surrounded the enclosure, 
every man was in his place, silent and watchful. The order had 
been given that no one was to fire except to check an advance, 
for though ammunition was abundant, Captain Smithers felt that it 
was impossible to tell how long they might be besieged, so he 
determined to economise as much as possible. Consequently, 
firing from the fort was only at intervals, and as the Malays relied 
principally upon their spears, the ball was not kept up with any- 
thing like vigour ; but, all the same, certain movements on the 
part of the enemy warned the temporary commandant to be 
careful, as it would be craft more than open assault with which 
he would have to deal 

After completing his round and saying a few words to the men, 
he stood thinking on the side nearest the river, from which he 
was only separated by a space of about forty yards, and he 
could not help thinking how their position would be strength- 
ened if the steamer could be got off and moored here, a trench 
being opened fioni stem and stern to connect it with the fort. 
This would be giving the latter a most powerful river front, 
Dullah*s hut, which stood there, could easily be razed, and he 
knew that the water was deeper there than at any part of the 
river ¡ª quite sufficient to float the steamer. 

It seemed a risky thing to do ¡ª to send again ; but he felt that 
he ought to apprise Lieutenant Johnson of his ideas, and to 
request him to use every effort to get the steamer off. 

** As if he would not do that for his own sake," he muttered 





directly ditex ; and then he began to consider whom he should 
send 

Adam Gray immediately suggested himself to his mind, and 
his brow knitted as he felt that it was like trying to get rid of a 
man he disliked. 

" He is the most trustworthy, and the best suited for the task/' 

he said directly; and as the words left his lips he raised his 
eyes, and saw the object of his thoughts come with a dozen more 
men to relieve the party nearer him. 

*'Fall out, Gray," he said sharply; and Gray looked at him 
curiously as he stepped back out of the ranks. 

" I want a message conveyed on board the steamer, Gray," 
said Captain Smithers. " She lies about fifty yards off the other 
side of the island, aground on the mud. Do you think you can 
reach her?" 

" I shall do my best, sir," said Gray, quietly. " If I do not 
succeed, you ynW know it is because I am down." 

" But you must not go dovm, Gray," said Captain Smithers, 
hastily. "You cannot be spared. This is a most important 
duty, and that is why I send you." 

The private's eyes were fixed on those of his captain most 
searchingly, and the latter lowered his own before those of his 
inferior. 

" I shall give you no written message, for fear that you may be 
taken, Gray," said Captain Smithers, hastily. **Take this verbal 
message, * Captain Smithers begs, for the sake of all, that 
Lieutenant Johnson will strive to get the steamer off, and bring 
her round here, to moor her close up to the bank, alongside of 

DuUah's hut.' Do you understand ? " 

" Yes, sir," said Gray, and he repeated the words. 
" That will do. Now go." 
?* At once, sir ? " 
**At once." 

Gray saluted, and with his teeth pressing his lip started off upon 
another risky mission. 

He met Ensign Long as he went back to the quarters, and on 
being questioned, he questioned in return, and obtained a few 
particulars, enough to make him determine to make his way up 
towards the head of the island, and there swim off, to try and get 
himself swept dowTi to the steamer, hoping to be seen and get on 
board without mishap, and in this spirit, arming himself once more 
as on his former expedition, he set ofi. 



CHAPTER XLV. 



THROUGH FIRE AND WATER. 

Private Gray was conscious that the ladies saw him start, and 
their eyes bade him succeed, or else it was his fancy. At all 
events the knowledge that he had their sympathy encouraged 
him, at a time when his heart was sore with the knowledge that 
Captain Smithers was selecting him for every dangerous service 
as if to get rid of him. 

Sergeant Lund nodded sagely, on receiving the application for 
the revolver. 

" All right, my lad," he said quietly. " I suppose I mustn't 
grumble at you for making it so rusty last time." 

" No, sergeant ; nor yet if I make it worse this time." 

" Another risky journey then, eh ? No, don't tell me, my lad. 
Go and do your duty; I'm not going to pump you." 

" I know that, sergeant, but it is no breach of confidence to 
ask your advice." 

" 'Course not, my lad. There you are ; fix 'em in tight. Now 
then, what is it ? I'm good at some things, so long as you don't 
ask me to put 'em down in writing." 

** If you wished to get to the steamer, sergeant, how would you 
proceed ? " 

" Oh, that's it, is it?" said the sergeant. *'Well then, you've 
got a risky job, my lad. But you'll do it. Well, if it was me I 
should wait till night, if I could." 

" And if you could not ? " 

" I should go just t'other way, to throw the Malay chaps oft 
their scent. Then work round to the head of the island, slip into 
the water, and swim down." 

" Exactly, sergeant," said Gray ; and he turned off to go. 

" He's as clever a young chap as ever I run against," said the 
sergeant, who, like a good many more people, fervently admired 
tliose who thought the same as he. " But what puzzles me more 
and more every day is how such a chap as him should come to 




be a common soldier. He's a gentleman, every inch of him. 
Why, didn't they get him to talk to the French officers when we 
landed at Ceylon, and the French frigate was there ? and my 
word, how he did jabber away ! He might have been a real 
mounseer. Well, 'taint no business of mine ; so long as he gets 
his accoutrements clean, and a good coating of pipe-clay on his 
belts, that's enough for me. I only wish there was more Grays 
and not so many Sims in the company." 

Meanwhile Adam Gray was on his way to the far side of the 
fort, very quiet and thoughtful as he made his plans, tjie first 
part of which was to go quietly to the ^^g^ of the earthwork, 
wait for his opportunity, and drop into the dry ditch, from which 
he hoped to crawl unperceived to the cover of the trees, about a 
hundred yards away. The rest, he felt, must be left to chance. 

As he reached the side he met Ensign Long, who came up to 
him, and to his great surprise shook hands. 

" Captain Smithers has told me of your mission. Gray," he 
said; "I wish you every success." 

" But you don't think, sir, that I shall succeed, and this is a 
friendly good-bye/ said Gray, smiling. 

*' Well I ¡ª that is ¡ª I ¡ª 'pon my word, Gray, you just hit what 
I was thinking about. You see I had such a narrow escape of 
it myself, that I couldn't help thinking of something of the kind" 

" You tried it openly, sir; I'm going to try and steal a march 
upon the Malays." 

" What, are you going over here ? " said the ensign. 

'* Yes, sir, and there's a good opening now," said Gray, after a 
sharp look round. " Good-bye, sir ; wish me luck" 

As he spoke he glided as it were over the edge of the earth- 
work, and let himself roll into the ditch, whence he made his 
way to the edge on the other side. Ensign Long bidding the two 
nearest men cover the messenger with their rifles as long as he 
was in sight 

That was not for long, Gray crawling rapidly over the ground ; 
and as tho-se who watched scanned every shrub and tree for an 
enemy, they saw him reach the edge of the jungle and disappear. 

It was into no haven of safety though that Gray had passed, 
for he had not gone twenty yards into the shadowy gloom, 
which was comparatively cool after the scorching sunshine in 
the opening that had been cleared of trees, before he heard 
voices on his left, and he had barely time to crouch down 
among the long grass before half-a-dozen Malays came along, 
one of whom saw the pressed down undergrowth and began 
to examine it curiously. 



Another moment and he would have seen Gray, whose hand 
was thrust into his breast, but a word from one of his com- 
panions took off his attention, and he disappeared with them 
amongst the trees. 

Gray drew a long breath as he once more started off, 
creeping on all fours, and at times crawling, so as to make 
sure of being unseen. 

His journey of about half a mile, measured by his twisting and 
turning, was one series of hairbreadth escapes. A dozen times 
over he had to turn and come back over almost precisely the 
same ground to avoid a party of Malays, who seemed ready to 
spring out of the earth on all sides of him, but still, thanks to the 
thick growth, he was unseen. Such a journey on their first 
landing would have been impossible, but as the men were 
hardly ever allowed to go on the mainland, they had, by way of 
compensation, pretty free access to the jungle portion of the 
little island, and in consequence they had trampled down the 
dense vegetation, and forced paths here and there through the 
cane brakes when snake hunting. 

At last, dripping with perspiration, Gray reached the head of 
the island, and lay half exhausted in a dense clump of canes, 
listening to the washing of the river as its waters divided a 
dozen or so of paces from where he lay. 

He could not see the river on account of the thick growth, 

but it sounded very cool and pleasant ; and now, having won his 
way thus far, he longed for the plunge and swim down to the 

steamer. 

He reckoned that a minute's law would place him beyond the 
reach of spears, however ably thrown ; and as to the enemy's 
rifles or muskets, he did not think they would be able to hit him 
as he swam with the rapid stream. Still he did not move, for he 
was so heated by his exertions that he dreaded risking cramp or 
shock from the sudden immersion. 

Everything was so still in the hot afternoon sunshine, that the 
whirring noise of the insects seemed quite loud. Beautiful 
blue-billed gapers, all claret and black and white, flitted about, 
catching glossy metallic-looking beetles ; little green chatterers, 
with their crested heads, fiew from spray to spray ; and tiny sun- 
birds, in their gorgeous mail of gold and bronze and purple, 
flew from flower to flower in search of honey. Now and then 
a scaly glistening lizard rustled by him, and twice over a snake 
crawled right across his body and away into the grass. Then 
a flock of the little love-bird paroquets came and settled in 
a tree hard by, piping, whistling, and chattering as they climbed 




and swung head downwards, or flew here and there ; while upon 
some bushes close at hand sat a pair of the lovely rose-breasted 
trogons, with their grey reticulated wings and beautiful cinnamon 
backs. 

It was a glorious scene for a lover of nature, so delicate were 
the many tints of green, so pure the sky above ; while to add to 
the beauty of the place a flock of rose-tinted doves settled in 
the palms, and cooed as mellowly as if this were in some park 
in the young soldier's far-off" home. 

So lovely was everything around that Gray closed his eyes, 
and was ready to ask himself whether the idea of danger was 
not all a dream, and that it was but fancy to suppose that blood- 
thirsty men were swarming in the island, ready to slaughter 
the inhabitants to a man. 

The sharp crack of a rifle, and then of half a dozen more, 
dissipated the dream, and with a sigh as he thought of the 
danger of those at the station, Gray unclosed his eyes, rose to 
his hands and knees from where he had been lying, and began to 
force his way softly amidst the canes. 

It was no easy task till he came to a track, evidently that 
made by a crocodile in coming and going from the river. He 
paused for a moment, shuddering as he thought of his danger ; 
then drawing the dirk, ready for a blow at the monster's eyes, 
should he encounter one, he crawled on, reached the water's edge 
in safety, parting the canes to peer up and down the river in 
search oi danger, and seeing none. 

From where he crouched the steamer was not visible, but he 
knew that a little bold swimming would soon show her lying 
below ; and, all the while feeling very much like as if he were a 
frog about to plunge into a stream haunted by pike, he lowered 
himself towards the water, gazed for a moment into its depths, 
and then plunged in. 

Down he went into the clear, cool stream, striking out so as 
to get well away from the bank as he did so, and then rising to 
the surface, to see, to his horror, that a good-sized boat, that 
had lain hidden amidst the reeds, was being pushed out, and with 
seven or eight occupants was coming in pursuit. 

What was he to do ? seek the shore again and take refuge in 
the jungle ? 

That seemed impossible ; for he had plunged in so close to 
the boat that he would have been speared long before he could 
reach the place he had left, even if he had been able to swim 
against the stream. 

Then, to his horror, he saw that the banks were perpendicular 




or else overhanging, and any attempt at climbing them from the 
water must have failed ; for, as far as he could see, where he was 
being swept down not a tree laved an overhanging branch in the 
swift stream. There was only one course open to him, and that 
was to trust to the river, and swim for his life. 

He had been taking this as his only chance as the above 
thoughts flashed through his brain ; and now came in the value 
of his old school-day experience, when he had been one of the 
bravest swimmers of his age. In fact, as he swam on, recollec- 
tions of the old alder and willow ait in the clear river came 
back, and he smiled as he turned upon his side and forced his 
way through the sparkling waters. 

The position as he made the side-stroke was convenient, 
though not inspiriting ; for as his cheek lay on the stream he 
could keep one eye upon his pursuers, who were now coming 
rapidly on. Fortunately for Gray, in their hurry and excitement 
the Malays had lost ground, so that the young soldier had a fair 
start before they bent regularly to their paddles. He could see, 
though, that a couple of men were standing upright in the boat, 
each with a foot upon the gunwale, and a spe^r poised in one hand, 
ready for hurling at the fugitive when within throwing distance. 

Gray swam swiftly, but he saw that it was hopeless, and that 
he must soon be overtaken and perish. Still he did not despair, 
for his career had before now seemed as near its end. Nil 

desperandum was the motto of his life, and like some hunted 
hare he kept his eye upon his pursuers, meaning to try and 
dive the moment he saw an effort made to hurl a spear. 

He might perhaps escape by diving. At all events, it was 

his only chance, and he swam on, with the boat now rapidly 
getting near. 

Perhaps, he thought, they might not throw, but wait to 
thrust at him. If so, that would ^\q him longer time ; but no, 
there was no chance of that, for now he saw one of the 
Malays poise his spear, and draw himself back, to throw it 
with all his force. 

Gray saw no more, but with a shuddering sensation, as he 
seemed to feel the deadly weapon pierce him between the 
shoulders, he made a tremendous effort, and dived down, 
swimming beneath the surface with all his might, till compelled 
to rise for breath. 

As his head appeared above water a spear grazed his 
shoulder, and another passed just over his ear when he dived 
again, still pursuing the same tactics, and swimming beneath 
the surface. 




Again he rose, and another spear splashed the water in his 
face, while the shaft of the next struck him a sharp rap, as 
the blade narrowly shaved his ear. 

Down once more ; but now he was weaker. The intense ex- 
citement and the need of breath exhausted him, and though he 
strove hard to keep down, his efforts began to prove vain. He 
had seen the last time that the boat was closer to him, and 
he felt sure that now on rising he should be within reach of 
one or other of the spearmen. 

Still he made another effort to keep below, for though he 
was suffocating, and began to feel confused, weak, and helpless, 
these moments were moments of life, whereas the instant he 
reached the surface he knew that all was owtr. 

In his confused, sense-benumbed state, he felt that after all he 
had done his duty, and he recalled the calm, trusting look 
directed at him by Miss Linton as he passed her that morning. 
Then the water above him grew lighter, and he rose to the sur- 
face, striking out but feebly now, as he saw the boat close at 
hand, heard a shout from the Malays, and saw one of the 
men in the bow lean over to thrust his spear into the help- 
less swimmer, now almost at his feet. 



CHAPTER XLVI. 

SHOWS HOW BOB ROBERTS GAVE A HINT, AND THE MALAYS 

GOT INTO HOT WATER. 

Hunter and hunted had been ahke too much occupi-ed to note 
what had been going on elsewhere. Gray's anxious gaze when 
he rose to the surface had been directed backward at his pur- 
suers, and for the time being the steamer and her occupants were 
forgotten. On the other hand, the Malays, keen on the scent of 
blood, intently watched the place where their quarry dived, and 
calculated where he would rise. 

So it was then that just as one of the men in the prow of 
the boat was about to savagely stab the nerveless swimmer, 
whose glazing eye met his with more of defiance than menace 
therein, there was a rattling volley from half-a-dozen rifles, the 
two spearmen fell over the side, to be swept away by the stream, 
and their companions, on starting up and seeing one of the 
steamer's cutters coming rapidly on, to a man leaped overboard 
and swam for their lives, some making for the island, some 
for the opposite shore, 

Adam Gray was so exhausted and surprised that it was some 
time before he realized that the danger was past, but that, unless 
he made a fresh effort, a new peril would await him, and he 
would lose his life by drowning. 

Just then, though, the Malay boat was swept close to him, 
and he threw one arm over the side, holding on till he was 
dragged into the cutter, which was then rowed rapidly back to 
the steamer. 

" That was a narrow squeak for you, Mr Soldier," said Bob 
Eoberts. " My marines only spoke up just in time." 

" I cannot find words to thank you now, sir," panted Gray, 
who was pale with exhaustion. 

"All right !" said Bob; and don't find any words to thank me 

by-and-by. I'm glad we were in time. You'd have done as 
much for any of us, my maa" 




*' Of course, sir ; of course," said Gray, huskily. 

"Yes, of course you would; but how came you in the 
river?" 

" I was swimming off with a message to Lieutenant Johnson, 
sir,*' replied Gray. 

" Then if I were you I wouldn't go such a long way round 
next time," said Bob. " Steady there, marines. Let them see 
you cover them, and they'll rush off behind the trees." 

This was in regard to some Malays who were showing them- 
selves menacingly on the edge of the river; but the moment 
they saw that the marines' rifles were directed at them they ran 
to cover, and the cutter was soon alongside of the steamer, 
the falls were hooked on, and the boat swung by the davits, her 
mission being at an end. 

Two anchors had been carried some distance out, steam got 
up, and with the screw going at high pressure and men at work 
at the capstan, every effort was being made to get the vessel 
out of her unpleasant position, but in vain. 

Lieutenant Johnson heard the message brought by Gray, 
and then pointed to what was being done. 

" I am making every effort," he said rather angrily. " Does 
Captain Smithers think I want to stay in this disgraceful posi- 
tion ? You can tell him, though, that if I can get free I shall 
divide my time between chasing these rascally prahus and 
lying where he suggests." 

The efforts went on, the men hauling and straining on the 
anchors, and the steam going furiously, but all in vain ; the 

vessel would not move. 

Then another plan was tried ; all the ship's company were 
sent to one side of the bulwarks, and then run across to the 
other, to give a swaying motion to the vessel, so as to loosen 
the keel in the deep mud ; but though the careening was 
effected, the steamer could not be moved, either ahead or 
astern. 

Then the last plan was tried again, with the addition of the 
guns being run all over to the port side, but still there was no 
change ; and Lieutenant Johnson's brow knit with annoyance as 
he more fully realized the fact that they would be lying in that 
helpless position when the captain returned. 

" The disgrace is enough to kill me, Roberts," he exclaimed. 

"Let's set every sail, sir," said the middy; "there's a nice 
breeze coming down the river now, and that may send her over 
nearly upon her beam-ends." 

" Yes ] " exclaimed the lieutenant eagerly ; and the order 




being given, the men ran up aloft, and sail after sail was 
lowered, Ali standing with folded arms watching the proceed- 
ings, and then turning to lean upon the bulwark and gaze down 
the river. 

Just then Adam Gray saluted the lieutenant. 

'* Will you be good enough to have me set ashore now, sir ? " 

"Set you ashore, my man?" replied Lieutenant Johnson, 
" Why, you had better wait till night." 

" I ought to get back with your message, sir." 

" Wait a little while, and perhaps I can run you round to the 
other side of the island." 

Gray, now that he had somewhat recovered, was eager to 
get back, but he could not quit the ship without the lieutenant's 
consent, and hence he waited patiently for the required permis- 
sion, watching the steamer's sails drop down one by one, and 
fill and flap as the breeze rose and fell. 

Now and then a dusky face could be seen amidst the palm- 
trees watching their proceedings, but it disappeared directly, and 
the clothing of the vessel with canvas went on without inter- 
ruption, till pretty well every stitch was set save a studding- 
sail or two. Then a puff of hot air came, and the steamer bent 
well over, the sails being so trimmed that the vessel's course 
would have been astern had she shown any disposition to move ; 
but though the steam was on full, and the men brought the 
capstan to bear on the cables, she did not budge an inch- 

" Here, my lads, back with these guns," said the lieutenant ; 
and for the next half-hour the men were busy replacing the 
heavy guns, when Ali, who since his escape had been remaining 
in sanctuary upon the steamer, suddenly gave the alarm. 

** A prahu coming down," he exclaimed, running to the 

lieutenant and catching his arm, pointing out as he did so some- 
thing moving round a reach of the river, and seen now and 
then where the growth was thin. 

" Two prahus coming up stream," reported one of the look-out 
men. 

" Look ! look I " cried Ali, pointing up the river. " There is 
another ¡ª two more. They are coming to take the steamer," he 
cried. 

" And we aground ! " exclaimed the lieutenant, stamping his 
foot with rage as he gave the necessary orders. The drum beat 
to quarters directly ; the magazine was opened ; and the men 
ran eagerly to their posts ; while Ali went quietly into the cabin, 
and returned with a sword, revolver, and a sporting rifle, lent 
him by the lieutenant for shooting crocodiles. 





" Are you going to fight ? '* exclaimed Bob Roberts, who 
looked flushed and excited. 

" Yes," said Ali, " with this ; " and he tapped the rifle. 

" But against your own people ? " 

" Rajah Gantang's pirates are not my own people," said Ali, 
contemptuously. " Besides, the English are my friends, and if 
we could I would have gone to help those ashore." 

" All right," said Bob, " then we will fight together. I say, 
it's going to be a hot affair, isn't it ? " 

" They think to take the steamer easily," said Ali, " as she is 
ashore, but you will not let them ? " 

" Let them I " said Lieutenant Johnson, " no, Mr Ali, we will 
not. We shall fight to the last, and the last will be that I'll 
blow the vessel up. I can't sink her, for she is aground." 

Ali nodded his approval : he seemed in no wise moved at the 
prospect of the steamer being destroyed. And now he stood 
watching the coming of the great prahus, with their regular 
sweeps, twenty to thirty on each side, and alternated this with 
watching the loading of the guns and disposal of the men. 

Just then an idea seemed to have struck Bob Roberts, who 
ran across the deck to where old Dick was standing ready by 
a gun, 

** Here, Dick, I want you. Wilson, come and take his place." 

" Ay, ay, sir I" cried the man; but old Dick growled. 

" Don't take me away, Mr Roberts, sir,'' he said, querulously. 
" I was longing for a shot at them dirty pirates, and now I'm 
losing my chance." 

" Look here, Dick,'' cried Bob, and he raised himself on tip- 
toe and whispered something to him, old Dick's soured face 
undergoing a complete change to one full of mirth. The wrinkles 
became puckers, and his eyes nearly closed, while his mouth 
seemed drawn out at the comers till nearly double its usual 
length. 

" It will be just right, Dick," said the middy. 

'* To a T, Mr Roberts, sir. Well, you are a clever one, you 
are ! Who'd ha' thought of that ? " 

" You be ready, Dick ; I depend upon you, mind," cried the 
middy; and he ran back to his post. 

The prahus were coming steadily on, up and down stream, 
and it could be seen from the steamer's deck that they were 
full of men, and bristling with spears, while any doubt as to 
the unfriendliness of their intentions was soon dispelled by the 
noise of beating gongs on board each vessel, the object being 
apparently to encourage each other and to excite alarm in the 




breasts of their foes, a result which in this case the noise decidedly 

failed in obtaining. 

The men kept glancing anxiously at their commander, who 
seemed to be letting the prahus approach very closely, which 
appeared to be a bad policy, seeing that the Malays were about 
ten to one, and their object would doubtless be to board the 
steamer and engage in a hand-to-hand fight; but Lieutenant 
Johnson had made his plans, and was abiding his time. He 
himself carefully pointed the guns, depressing them somewhat, so 
that the shot should strike low ; and then leaving the task in the 
hands of the captain of each piece, he waited the result. 

The prahus were now within a couple of hundred yards of 
the steamer, and had begun firing iron shot from their little 
brass lelahs, when the first gun spoke out. There was a round 
puff of smoke and a deafening roar, and the shot struck the 
nearest right in the stem, tearing a great hole in her bows, and 
passing through her with such deadly effect that the prahu im- 
mediately began to sink, and her crew leaped overboard in 
confusion and began to swim ashore. 

Grape-shot from the smaller guns or musketry from the 
marines would have destroyed numbers of the Malays struggling 
in the water, but looking upon them as out of the fight, 
Lieutenant Johnson left them to struggle, some to one bank, 
some to the other, and gave his orders merely to the men at the 
great guns. 

It was one from the port side that had wrought this mischief. 
Now one from the starboard spoke out. There was once more 
the great white ball of smoke, the deafening roar, and the shot 
struck the water about twenty yards from the nearest prahu, 
ricochetted, and passed clean through her, going down the river 
afterwards in a series of richochets. 

This shot caused no little confusion on board, and several of 
the sweeps fell uselessly in the water ; but the prahu still came 
on, with the occupants yelling and beating their gongs. 

Another shot struck the water, and though well aimed for the 
next prahu, it rose and went over her, merely making a great gap 
in the matting-screen from behind which the Malays were keeping 
up a brisk but ineffectual fire. 

Another shot at one of the prahus coming down stream; and 
this went clean over, and crashed through the palm-trees a 
quarter of a mile away. But the next shot produced a hearty 
cheer from the sailors, for it struck the slight vessel right on 
the water-line, made a tremendous gap, and must have caused 
terrible slaughter, for the Malays were thrown into confusion, 



the sweeps clashed one with the ether, and all governance seemed 
gone, the prahu turning broadside on, and then floating slowly 
with the stream for a few yards before settling down and sinking, 
leaving her masts and the top of the mat screens visible, for the 
water was shallow where she sank. 

The two prahus coming down stream were thus effectually 
disposed of; but the two coming up were now close at hand, 
and before another gun could be brought to bear their bows 
struck the sides of the steamer, grappling-irons were thrown 
over the bulwarks and into the chains, and yelling savagely 
their crews of fierce fighting men came swarming upon the deck. 

It was sharp work leaving the guns and preparing for the 
boarders ; but the sailors and marines were ready, and received 
the fierce yelling crowd of Malays with a sharp fire and the point 
of the bayonet, while these latter attacked fiercely with kris and 
spear. Their charge was most daring, and they came on in 
such numbers, and fought with so great a display of courage, 
that the little party of Englishmen, in spite of their heroic 
defence, were driven back step by step, till Lieutenant Johnson 
began to bitterly regret that he had not signalled for help from 
the fort. 

His heart sank within him as, in spite of his bravery and the 
example he set his men he saw them giving way on all sides. 

Bob Roberts, young as he was, fought bravely and well, while 
Ali did good service with his rifle. But all seemed in vain ; the 
Malays were gradually getting possession of the deck, and the 
question was arising in the lieutenant*s mind whether it would 
not be wiser to take refuge in the cabin, and fire from thence 
as they could. 

Men fell rapidly on either side, but while the Malays had 
three or four to leap into the places of those who went down, 
every wounded Englishman weakened the force terribly by his 
loss. 

Still there was no sign of flinching, the men giving way solely 
from being forced back by the numbers that pressed upon them. 

Three times over by a determined rally did the lieutenant 
strive to force the enemy back, but in vain ; and the last time he 
nearly lost his life, for the Malays made at him at once, and in 
his efforts to avoid them he slipped and fell. 

With a yell of triumph a couple of the enemy dashed at him 
spear in hand, when there was a sharp double report from a 
rifle, and one leaped in the air to fall flat on the deck beside 
his intended victim, the other staggered back and retreated to 
the re;ir. 



Those shots were fired by the young chief Ali, who coolly re- 
loaded his piece, and stood watching Bob Roberts, whose 
excitement was intense. 

He had forgotten Dick and his instructions to the old sailor in 
the fierce passions of the fray, and poor old Dick had gone down 
almost at the first rush, to crawl afterwards under the bulwarks, 
where he bound up his head, and lay watching the fight as he 
strove more than once to join in, 

But each time old Dick essayed to rise, a terrible sickness 
came over him, and he sank back trying to recall some order 
he had received from the midshipman, but unable to make out 
what it was. 

He fainted away twice in his efforts to get up, and then lay 
back, sick at heart, and with just enough consciousness left to 
know that the fight was going against the English, and that he 
had it in his power to change the fortunes of the day. 

" What was it Mr Roberts told him to do ? What was it Mr 
Roberts told him to do ? " 

That was the question he wanted solved, but the sense had all 
seemed to escape out of the cut in his head, so he told himself, 
and the more he tried to recall what it was, the more did he grow 
confused, and at last he lay there helpless, listening to the yelling 
of the Malays, and the cheers and shouts of the comrades he 
could not help. 

He could see clearly enough all that was going on, and feel 
bitterly every phase of ill fortune in the fight, while he regretted 
the powerless state in which he lay as he saw some companion 
worsted by the enemy. 

" If I could only think what it was Mr Roberts told me to do, 
I might do it now," he muttered, " and that would help the 
poor lads." 

His head was growing clearer, though, and he became more and 
more excited as he saw sailors, marines, and officers driven back, 
step by step, along the deck, with the prospect before them of 
being slain to a man, and the steamer taken. 

That idea was horrible to Dick, and he thought of the captain, 
officers, and men away in the jungle, and what would be their 
feelings when they returned. 

" If I could only help !" thought Dick. " Bravo, lad 1 Why 
he fights like a man," he muttered ; " and there's that Mr Ali 
using his gun wonderfully, and him only a nigger ; while I lie here 
with my orders on me, and do nothing to help my m-ates. Oh, 
if I only had strength," he groaned 

Still the fight went on, and to his horror Lieutenant Johnson 





saw that another prahu and a naga or dragon boat were coming 
up to the attack, while in place of being able to repel them with 
a few shots from his guns, he and his men were hemmed in by 
quite a mob of yelling Malays, every one of whom was thirsting 
for the Englishmen's blood. 

All at once, in the thick of the fight, and just as he was pant- 
ing, and too helpless to deliver another stroke, Bob Roberts 
recalled for a moment the orders he had given old Dick. But 
he felt that it was too late now, and stung by the disgrace of their 
position, he tried to reload his revolver, wondering whether Lieu- 
tenant Johnson would execute his threat of blowing up the ship. 

Had the lieutenant been ever so disposed, though, he could 
not have accomplished his design, for a living wall of Malays 
was between him and the way down to the magazine, and he 
was weak and spent with his efforts, to such an extent that he 
could hardly raise his sword. 

" It is all over," he thought to himself, " but well die fighting 
like Englishmen. Oh, my poor lads," he groaned, *' my poor 
lads ! " And he wondered whether he could have done anything 
else to lead them to victory instead of this bitter defeat 

It did indeed seem to be all over, for the fresh boats had 
reached the steamer, and their men were swarming over the side, 
when suddenly the remembrance of his orders flashed across old 
Dick's clouded brain, bringing with it renewed strength, for the 
faintness seemed to be driven away. 

Abdullah, or rather Rajah Gantang, saw the fresh forces 
arriving, and he shouted to them to come on, stepping back 
half-a-dozen yards, and then leaping on to one of the wired sky- 
lights kris in hand. 

Close beside him he saw a rough old wounded sailor screwing 
on something briglit that looked like a copper pipe, and then seize 
hold of an iron spanner ; and out of sheer thirst for blood the 
rajah, after waving to the new comers to come on, made a leap 
down at the old sailor, who faced him with what seemed to the 
rajah like a copper gun, presented, and fired ¡ª 

No, that's wrong, he watered ; for Bob Roberts' commands 
were at last executed, and a shower of scalding water from the 
boilers was sent by means of the hose and branch full in the 
rajah's facei driving him away yelling with agony, as Dick made 
a dash along the deck, the hose trailing after him, took the 
Malays in flank just as they were making their final dash at the 
hemmed-in defenders of the vessel, and the fortunes of the day 
were changed. 

Whizz^ squish, out fiew the steaming water in a scalding 



shower, and in an instant the fierce crowd of Malays were turned 
into a set of agonized, dancing, maniacs, a dozen of them turning 
furiously on Dick, and rushing at him, kris and spear in hand j 
but with a grim smile on his rough visage, old Dick gave the 
copper branch a waving motion, and the scalding shower stopped 
the fiercest of them, drove them back, and as they fled the fresh 
party summoned by the rajah came running along the deck. 

Dick did not flinch, but mentally praying that the supply 
might hold out, delivered the stream full in their faces as they 
came yelling up, and after a brave effort to withstand it for a few 
moments, sending them back, crushed and beaten, stamping, 
shrieking, leaping overboard, making frantic efforts to escape the 
pain, while Dick steadily followed them up, playing the boiling 
water amongst them, and literally cleaning the decks, amidst the 
cheering of the men. 

" Quick there," cried Lieutenant Johnson, " A man there at 
the wheel ¡ª two ! quick ! two ! She's afloat. Down there in 
the engine-room," he shouted, as he mounted the bridge, for a 
breeze had sprung up, and the mud that clung round the 
steamer's keel having been loosened by the firing, the motion of 
the vessel, and the pressure on the sails, the corvette had, unper- 
ceived, been afloat some minutes, and slowly floating down stream. 

In another few seconds she was under full command ; and as 
the men flew to the guns, the lieutenant took deadly revenge 
upon his fierce enemies by manoeuvring the steamer so that, in 
spite of the efforts of her crew with their sweeps, he literally sent 
her over the biggest of the three prahus, the stem of the steamer 
cutting it in two as if it had been made of paper, and then sink- 
ing the naga by a well-directed shot, the crews of both swimming 
easily towards the shore. 

By this time the other two prahus were in full retreat up 
stream, evidently from a belief that the steamer would not 
follow ; but in spite of his mishap in running aground, Lieu- 
tenant Johnson could not resist the temptation to administer the 
sternest punishment he could contrive ; and with full steam on, 
he gave chase, firing at the two prahus as he went. 

At the end of ten minutes one had been struck several times, 
and her captain ran her close in shore, he and his crew deserting 
her ; while after avoiding only by a miracle at least a dozen 
shots, the last prahu suddenly turned in by a branch of the river 
and seemed to go right amongst the palm-trees, when, after a 
parting shot or two, the steamer proving quite unsuited for chase 
in such narrow, shallow waters, the lieutenant gave it up, his 
crew being too weak to continue the chase with the boats. 



CHAPTER XLVIL 



HOW BOB ROBERTS BURNED THE PRAHU. 



The victory was dearly bought ; for now that the breathless ex- 
citement was over, and there was time to make an examination, 
it was found that fully half the crew had injuries, more or less 
serious, the men, though, bearing their sufferings with the greatest 
fortitude as their two officers, for want of a doctor, bound up the 
wounds. 

It almost seemed as if those who had most exposed them- 
selves had come off best ; for neither Lieutenant Johnson, Bob 
Roberts, Ali, nor Adam Gray, who had been brave even to reck- 
lessness, had received a scratch. 

" I have only one regret about you, Gray," said Lieutenant 
Johnson, shaking his hand warmly. 

*' May I ask what that is, sir?" replied Gray. 

" Yes, that you are not a sailor ; that is all," said the lieu- 
tenant, smiling, " I shall not forget this affair. I believe you 
twice over saved my life." 

" And you, too, friend Ali," continued the lieutenant, laying his 
hand upon the young chief's shoulder. "I have often called the 
Malays a set of treacherous wretches, but I find that there are 
Malays and Malays. Sir, I hope some day that you may rise to 
power, as in you England will always have a trusty ally." 

Ali bowed gravely, and his eyes betokened the pleasure he felt 
as he thought of the possibility of his raising the people of this 
land to something better than the slothful, betel-chewing piratical 
race they were. 

The steamer was now rapidly making her way back, the men 
furling the sails, and the screw as it revolved sending a wave 
washing in amidst the roots of the trees on either side of the 
river; while, now that the present danger was over, the lieu- 
tenant went round to visit his patients, leaving Bob Roberts in 
command, and a man with the lead in the chains. 


" I think the central channel is safe enough, Roberts," said 
the lieutenant; " but keep him heaving the lead," 

" Trust me, sir/' said Bob rather importantly, 

"Yes, I'll trust you, Roberts," said the lieutenant. ''I'll be 
frank with you, my lad, and tell you something that will please 
you, I know." 

" What is it, sir ?" said Bob eagerly. 

" I don*t think I shall ever look upon you again as a boy." 

Bob coloured with pleasure as soon as he was left alone ; but 
his common sense prevailed the next moment. 

" That's very kind of him," he thought, " but it's all gammon ; 
I am only a boy yet. And there ¡ª hang it all ! since Miss Linton 
spoke to me as she did, hang me if I care if I am ! " 

Fortunately for the party on board the steamer, the Malays 
had carried off their wounded as they fell, so that there was no 
trouble with either them or prisoners, who would have been 
highly inconvenient at such a time, especially as there was no 
knowing how soon there might be another attack. For though 
beaten as to their prahus, the Malays almost to a man succeeded 
in reaching the shore, to Join those besieging the fort, and at 
any time a new attack might be made. 

As they came abreast of the prahu that was run ashore and 
forsaken, Lieutenant Johnson determined to run no risk of its 
being floated once more, and used, after patching, to annoy ; 
for giving the order to reverse the engine, the steamer was kept 
abreast, while Bob Roberts and a party of marines and Jacks 
went ashore and made preparations to bum her. 

Ali stepped into the boat with his friend, and advised caution; 
for he warned Bob that, although severely punished, the rajah 
was in no wise beaten, and that, as likely as not, a force of men 
were lying hidden amongst the reeds to protect the injured 
prahu. 

" All right ! " said Bob, " I'll be careful." And to show how 
careful he intended to be, he let the cutter run up amidst the 
reeds, and jumped out with a dozen men, provided with some 
fiery spirit, and some spurn yam and matches. 

" I think you ought to search the reeds first with a few shots 
from your marines' rifles," said Ali, who was gazing around very 
distrustfully ; and no wonder, for there was every likelihood of 
some of the Malays being in ambush. 

" No need," said Bob, laughing. " We've given them such a 
lesson as they won't forget for some time, my lad. Come along.'* 

Ali leaped ashore, and they tried to get on board the prahu, 
which seemed close in to the bank ; but finding this was not the 





case, they returned to the boat, and pushed off through the 
rustling reeds to row round to the other side, and there board 
her by means of a rope. 

It was well for the little party that they returned as they did, 
for in twenty places dark figures were steading through the thick, 

long reeds quite unseen, but all converging upon the spot where 
the cutter ran to the shore. 

The return to the boat upset the plans of the ambush, but the 
Malays who formed the party were not beaten ; and finding their 
first plan hopeless, they immediately adopted another, and began 
creeping through the reeds, hardly making them rustle as they 
made now for the praha 

" Heave up a rope, one of you," said Bob, " unless anybody 
can climb up." 

This was as the bowman held the cutter close up against the 
prahu's side with his boathook. 

" If one on 'em keeps the cutter alongside, sir, I can get up, 
and then make fast a rope," said the bowman. 

" All right ! up with you," said Bob j and as another man held 
on by one of the big oars that hung in its place, the boatman 
hooked on his boathook in one of the rattan-twisted ropes, and 
cleverly climbed up, catching the rope that was thrown up and 
making it fast, when half a dozen of the sailors, with Bob 
Roberts and Ali, were soon on the short, bamboo deck. 

" It seems almost a pity to burn her," said Bob, who was 
greatly taken by the workmanship of the craft. 

" No, no ! " said Ali angrily, as his eyes wandered suspiciously 
about amidst the reeds ; " bum her, bum her ! the decks have 
been stained with blood, and many a poor, innocent creature has 
suffered outrage at the owner's hands. Rajah Gantang was a 
cruel, bloodthirsty pirate. Let the river be purified from his 
boats 1 " 

"But," said Bob, laughing, "we might give it a good washing 
down, and fumigate it below decks, and afterwards give it a coat 
of paint. It would be purified enough then, and it might be useful/^ 

" I do not understand you," said Ali seriously ; " but let your 
men be quick ; I fear danger." 

" What a suspicious chap you are, to be sure, Ali," replied 
Bob. " I'll be bound to say, if the truth was known, there isn't 
a nigger within a mile of us. Here, look alive, my ladsj it 
seems a pity to bum such a boat ; but orders are orders, and we 
shall have a gun fired directly, by way of recall. There, that 
will do ; lay the oakum there, and pour the spirits over it She'll 
bum like a firework." 




The men obeyed in a quiet leisurely manner, quite satisfied of 
there being no danger if their officer saw none ; so the oakum 
and yarn they had brought were heaped up on the bamboo deck, 
and another lot thrust into a kind of cabin, plenty of the spirit 
poured on each, and nothing was needed but the application of 
a match or two for the work of distruction to begin. 

Still Bob seemed loth to fire so well-built a vessel, and he 
stood pointing out good points in the make of the long light 
boat, counting the number of sweeps she had carried, examining 
the shot holes and the like ¡ª partly in a bravado spirit, for Aii 
was all anxiety to get on board the steamer again, scenting 
danger as he did on every breath of wind, while Bob wanted to 
show him how matter-of-fact and cool a British officer could be. 

" Look ! " said Ali suddenly, and he laid his hand upon Bob's 
shoulder. 

" Which way ? " said Bob quietly. " I can see nothing." 

"You will not see," said Ali in a low passionate voice. "You 
are so brave, but you are so foolish too. Why risk life when 
there is danger." 

" I don%" said Bob coolly. 

" You do ; there is great danger now," said AIL " Gantang's 
men are creeping through the reeds to spear us." 

" Jump down in the cutter then," said Bob, "and you will be all 

right." 

Ali drew himself up angrily. 
A Malay chief never knows fear," he said, as he leaned his 
hands upon the muzzle of the rifle he still carried, and stood 
there, proud and defiant, like a bronze statue, he was so motion- 
less and calm. 

" I didn*t mean to offend you, Ali, old fellow," cried Bob. 
And as the young Malay saw the open, frank, laughing face 
before him, and the extended hand, he seized it in his. 

'* I am not offended," said Ali, " but I'm afraid for you and 

your men." 

**Whatof ?" said Bob. 

" That ! " said Ali, as a spear whizzed through the reeds and 
stuck in the bamboo deck. 

" Yes, it was close," said Bob coolly. " Who has the 
matches ? " 

** Here you are, sir," said one of the men. 

** All right," said Bob, taking the box. " Down into the boat 
all of you. Go on too, Ali." 

" No, I stay with you," said the young chief, just as another 
spear stuck quivering in the deck. 




" Ah ! I left it a bit too long," said Bob, striking a match as 
he dived into the cabin, and the next moment a volume of 
smoke rolled ud. 

He then lit another match, and held it to the soaked oakum 
on the deck, spear after spear being thrown, several of which he 
escaped as by a miracle. Another moment or two, and the thick 
smoke formed a veil between the two young men and their 
enemies, who threw spear after spear, but without effect. 

" Won*t they be fine and mad ? " cried Bob. " Here, give me 
your rifle, Ali, old fellow, and I'll have a couple of shots at them. 
No, I won't," he said, handing the rifle back ; " I can't shoot in 
cold blood. Come along, or we shall be roasted ready for our 
friends there, if they are disposed to be cannibals. My word, how 
she bums ! " 

His last words were not uncalled for, as the light wood of 
which the Malay vessel was composed began to blaze furiously, 
so fast indeed, that the middy and his friend were driven into 
making rather an undignified retreat before the great leaping 
tongues of flame and the rolling volumes of smoke that in a few 
minutes ran from end to end of the vessel. 

" Push off", my lads," cried Bob, as he took his place in the 
stern-sheets, coughing and sneezing from the effects of the pun- 
gent smoke. "Give way!" he cried; "there's a signal flying 
for our return." 

Just then a shot came from the steamer as well, and with the 
Malays beginning to fire at them from among the reeds, the cutter 
was rowed rapidly back to the steamer's side, the prahu mean- 
while blazing furiously, and promising soon to burn down to the 

water's edge. 

"Come, Mr Roberts," cried the lieutenant impatiently; "you 
have been a long time." 

" Yes, sir," said Bob, smiling at Ali, " there was a good deal 
of spear-throwing towards the last, and we had to dodge them." 

" The enemy is not easily frightened," said the lieutenant, as 
the propeller once more rapidly revolved; "but we must get 

back, for I fancy I can hear firing below, and I am afraid they 
are attacking the fort now for a change." 

" What shall you do, sir ? " said Bob eagerly. 

" It is not the custom, Mr Roberts, for the officer in com- 
mand to explain his plans to his subordinates ; but if you must 
know, I shall run the steamer as close up to the fort as I can, and 
there keep her, if the Malays do not prove too strong for us." 

Then walking to and fro for a few minutes, he ended by going 
up to where old Dick, with a bandage round his head. wi5 
calmly masticating a lump of tobacca 




" I have never thanked you for your capital idea," said the 
lieutenant. " That hot water saved us in a terrible pinch." 

" Yes, sir," said Dick, grinning, " it saved us ; but it wam't my 
idee at all. ' There's lots of boiling water, Dick/ says Mr 
Roberts, yonder j * screw on the hose, and tell the engineer what 
you want. Then when alUs ready, and it seems a good time, 
lay hold of the branch, and play up among the niggers,' sir; 
and I did as soon as I could, but my head were in that muzzy 
state that¡ª" 

" There is firing going on," said the lieutenant. " Mr Roberts, 
clear again for action." 

" Action, eh ? " said old Dick. " Then I can't do better than 
say another word to the engineer, for of all the ways to clear the 
decks this hot water system's about the best." So saying, Dick 
went to screw the hose on the valve once more, muttering and 
talking to himself the while, and ever and again slapping one of 
his legs and bursting into a series of chuckles. 

" Lor' a mussy me," he said ; " and how I argyed with Mr 
Roberts there about the niggers not being clean. Why that's 
what put it into his precious head. I wonder what they looks 
like to day, after their washing." 

" Took the skin off, I should say, Dick," said Bob Roberts, 
who had heard the old man's words. 

"And sarve 'em right, sir," said the old sailor. "What did 
they mean to do to us but take us right out of our skins, and end 
us right off at once ? And them as plays at bowls must expect 
rubbers." 

So sapng, Dick, who had finished his speech without an 
audience, seemed quite forgetful of his wound, and went down to 
the engine-room, where the engineer and firemen saluted him 
with a broad grin ; to which Dick responded with one a little 
broader, as he stood mopping the perspiration from his face. 

" Why, Dick, old man," said the engineer, " after this I think 
we can show them gunners a trick or two. It would have 
puzzled them to clear the decks like that. However came you 
to think of it?" 

" Think of it ? " said Dick. " I shouldn't never thought of such 
a game ; it was young Mr Roberts, you know. But did you see 
'em run ? " 

" Run !" said the engineer. " Running was nothing to it ; you 
cleared the deck like a shot." 

" Shot ! " said Dick scornfully j " I should like to see the shot 
or shell that would do it half as well. Why, look here, my lads, 
your shot and your shell kills and murders people, knocks off 





their legs and wings, and precious often their heads. A shot goes 
bang in amongst a lot o' folk, and there*s an end of it. But here 
I was with the copper branch in my fisties, and I just sprinkled 
'em here and there like a shower and ¡ª ^" 

" Give it 'em hot," interposed one of the firemen leaning on 
his shovel. 

"Ay, I just did,*' said Dick ; " not as it was much hotter than 
it is down here, my lads, but hot I did give it 'em, and there 
wasn't one who would face it And that brings me down to 
why I come here." 

" Oh, we know why you come here, Dicky," said another of 
the firemen, who had just been stoking a furnace, and whose 
face shone with perspiration. " You said to yourself, you did, 
there's them poor chaps down there in the engine-room getting 
half-roastedj and with their throats as dry as brown paper ; now, 
being a good-hearted sort of fellow as I am, I'll just go down 
below and say to em, a nice cooling drink o' lime juice and 
water with a dash o' rum in it, is what you all wants in a big tin 
can. Shall I get it for you ? That's what you come down here 
to say." 

" Blest if ever I see such a clever chap as you are, Sam 
Walsh," cried Dick, slapping his leg and laughing. " You can 
read a fellow just as if he was made up o' large print and big 
leaves. You've really hit it, but you see a drink like that wants 
mixing ; and don't you see, though you may drink it cold it wants 
hot water to mix it? and that's what I did come about ¡ª more hot 
water." 

" To mix up for us, Dick ? " said the engineer, laughing, 

** No," said Dick, " I didn't say that, my lad," and a bigger 
grin came over his face ; " what I want is the hot water to mix 
the grog for the niggers, as it seems they liked the last dose so 
much, that I'm to get ready some more." 

" There's plenty ¡ª hot enough for anything, Dick," said the 
engineer, " and I'll keep up the supply," 

" Silence below there ! " cried a voice ; and the engineer gave 
his subordinates a nod. 

" You'd better get on deck, Dick, old man," he said quietly ; 
and then in response to a signal from above, he seized and 
altered a couple of handles, listened for a fresh order, and 
slackened the speed of the engine ; while Dick went back on 
deck, satisfied that there was an abundant supply of hot water 
ready for the next action, and seeing that the island was once 
more in sight. 

A party of Malays were at the head, but they disappeared 





amidst the trees as the steamer came steadily down stream, 
while now as they drew nearer the sounds of smart firing could 
be heard, telling that an engagement was in progress. Smoke, 
too, was rising slowly above the feathery palm trees, but not 
in such dense volumes as that which could still be seen spread- 
ing out like a cloud above the jungle, where the prahu was 

burning. 

A sharp series of orders followed, and every man stood at his 
post ; for boats could be seen going to and from the island, and 
it was plain enough to the meanest comprehension on deck that 

if they meant to aid the occupants of the fort they had come none 
too soon. 



CHAPTER XLVIII. 



PLEASANT DAYS AT THE FORT. 

Matters seemed to grow worse from the moment that Adam 
Gray started off on his mission to the steamer, and Captain 
Smithers' brows seemed to have settled into a constant frown, for 
it was no light matter to be in command of the little fort, right 
away from aid, and only with a limited supply of provisions. 
They might be made to last weeks or months; but the end 
must come, and he saw no chance of help from outside, unless 
the steamer went off to the nearest station in search thereof! 

Then there was the constant worry upon his brain about the 
expedition and its fate, for there could be no doubt about Ali's 
news ; the force had been divided by cunning, and with such 
treacherous enemies he felt but little hope of seeing any of the 
party again. 

Fortunately for him and the sharers of his imprisonment ¡ª for 
it was little else ¡ª their minds were too much occupied by the 
defence of the place to give them time to sit and brood over their 
troubles. There was always something to do, some weak part 
to strengthen ; and Captain Smithers longed for the help of the 
lieutenant with the steamer to guard outside of the fort. 

There was this to consider too ¡ª if Lieutenant Johnson could 
get the " Startler " off the mud, and round to the other side by 
Dullah's hut and the landing-place, if they were very hard 
pressed the fort could be abandoned, and, with the women, they 
could take refuge on board. Or better still ¡ª though he felt 
reluctant to make such an arrangement ¡ª the women could be 
got on board, and then the fort could be defended to the last 
extremity. 

In the course of those next hours while awaiting Gray's return, 
the Malays made two or three sharp attacks, all of which were 
repelled; and then, unable to assist, they waited, and listened 
to the engagement going on upon the other side of the patch of 
jungle that clothed a part of the island. The heavy reports of 





the steamer's guns made the frames of the lightly-built dwellings 
rattle, and the smoke could be seen rising above the trees ; but 
how the tide of war set it was impossible to tell, and Captain 
Smithers, as he walked up and down, felt as if he would have 
given anything for a trusty native spy who would have sought out 
news of what was going on. 

Failing this, and not daring to send out a second party, 
although Tom Long volunteered to go, there was nothing for it 
but to wait, especially as their besiegers had evidently been greatly 
augmented in numbers, and one of the soldiers had but to show 
himself for a moment to bring upon himself a shower of bullets. 

The suspense grew maddening, as the noise of the engagement 
between the prahus and the " Startler " increased. The yells of 
the Malays could be plainly heard; then the reports of the heavy- 
guns ceased ; there was a little rifle firing, the occasional crack 
of a revolver ; and lastly came the faintly heard noise of men 
contending in deadly strife. 

This lasted for a while, and the occupants of the fort mentally 
pictured the scene going on, but they could not comprehend 
the strange shrieking they heard as of men in terrible pain. 

Captain Smithers' heart sank, and he glanced at Tom Long, 
in whose countenance he read a confirmation of his fears; and on 
looking farther he saw Mrs Major Sandars, with Rachel Linton 
and her cousin, watching him attentively. 

They read his face too as he turned away, and their dread 
also seemed confirmed. 

That ominous silence of the steamer's guns pointed to the fact 
that she had been boarded by the Malays in too strong parties 
to.be successfully resisted, and a deep gloom sank upon all within 
the fort. 

There was not a man present who would not willingly have 
gone to the help of those on board the steamer; but not only 
were they hemmed in, but had they made a successful sally they 
had no means of reaching her. 

Nothing Gould be done then but wait, in the hope that some 
on board would escape and join them ; and to this end a con- 
stant watch for fugitives was kept up, a dozen men standing 
ready at the gate to rush out and bring any stragglers in. 

Just when they had descended to the greatest depths of 
misery, and Tom Long was debating with himself as to whether 
he ought not to go to Miss Linton and try to comfort her, 
telling her that so long as his arm could wield a sword she might 
reckon herself to be perfectly safe, there was a peculiar crashing 
sound, with a fresh burst of yells and cries. 




The ladies shuddered, and longed to go in and be alone, but 
their excitement was such that they felt obliged to stay out there 
in the opening, risking many bullets, so as to be face to face 
with the worst. 

Something terrible had happened they all knew, and at last 
the suspense was so great that in the presence of the ladies Cap- 
tain Smithers exclaimed, ¡ª " Long, you will have to take a dozen 
men and learn the worst ! " 

Tom Long glanced at Miss Linton, and for answer tightened 
his sword belt, and then examined the chambers of his revolver. 

" I*m ready, sir/' he said, and he set his teeth, for he felt that 
he should not come back alive. Still he was a soldier, and he 
accepted his duty without flinching, though it did need an effort 
to be calm. 

Just then, as he was about to ask what men he should choose, 
all ears being attentive to catch the faintest sound from beyond 
the trees ¡ª Boom I crash I went a big gun report and the blow 
it struck, coming almost simultaneously; and as in his excitement 
Tom Long sent his cap high in air, there was another echoing 
report, with a familiar beating and panting sound. 

" The steamer's off! " Tom Long cried. "Hurrah ! " 

Discipline was forgotten for the moment, and every man shouted 
with delight, his cheery "Hurrah!" the cheers being renewed 
directly after by the following reports of the steamer's guns ; and 
they knew by the beat of the engines that she was going up 
stream, firing as she went, evidently in pursuit of a prahu. 

They had plenty of evidence directly after that the Mala)^ 
had been beaten, for hurrying parties kept coming from the far 
side of the island where the engagement had taken place, and 
as Captain Smithers scanned these with his glass, he could see 
that their slight garments were soaking wet, baju and sarong 
clinging to their limbs, and showing that they had had to swim 

ashore. 

This was all proof of their having had a thorough beating ; 
and now, with the steamer no longer aground, but ready to 
come to their help, the spirits of all rose at as rapid a rate as 
they had gone down. 

But it was to be no time of rest for them. Captain Smithers, 
to meet the difficulty of there being no water to be obtained, 
save by going under fire to the spring, or making a dash for the 
river, had been giving orders for the sinking of a well in a 
comer of the fort, when word was passed from sentry to sentry 
of the advance of the enemy. Then shots were fired, at first 
scattered, then rapidly; and it was at once evident, that in 



revenge for their defeat afloat, the crews of some of the prahus 
had joined those on the island in a general attack. 

The earthworks were well made, but they required more 
men to successfully defend them, and after keeping the enemy 
at bay by a well-directed iire for some time, Captain Smithers, 
seeing signs of an approaching rush, and knowing well that this 
must result in severe loss upon his own side, quietly began 
to draw his little force away from the earthworks, till he had 
half in the barracks at the loopholes, from which they began 
a steady fire over the heads of those at the earthem wall, who, 
in their turn retired half at a time, the first half joining those 
who had gone before. 

Then as the Malays began to realize that the force at the 
earthen wall was very weak, and showed signs of coming on 
to carry it by storm, the defenders delivered a sharp volley 
and dropped out of sight, stooping down and running across 
to the barracks' white walls. On seeing that they had given 
way, the Malays set up a loud cry of triumph, and dashed 
forward, spear in hand, to occupy the deserted earthworks. 
They were met by a sharp fire from the barracks, which stag- 
gered them for the moment, but they rushed on, and sheltered 
themselves in the ditch, throwing a i^w spears at the hindmost 
of the retreating party ; but without effect, for the little 
garrison was soon shut in and able tor the time to defy their 
assailants. 

It was evident, however, that they were not to be left in 
peace, for the Malays now swarmed around them, and dozens 
might have been shot down ; but Captain Smithers gave orders 

that the fire should be reserved till they attacked. 

Just as they had finished the barricading of the entrance, a 
cloud of smoke was seen rising from the side of the residency, 
and this was followed by flames, leaving no doubt that the 
pleasant little house had been fired by the Malays ; and Captain 
Smithers frowned as he determined to administer severe punish- 
ment to the enemy, if for this act alone. 

Every opportunity was given him for the administration of the 
chastisement, the Malays exposing themselves freely, running out 
of shelter to fire, and then retreating again. Sometimes a fierce 
demonstration was made by spear-armed men, who came boldly 
up as if to attack, but soon fell back unmolested, for Captain 
Smithers felt that no end was to be obtained by simply shooting 
down a few of the enemy, and his orders were to reserve fire till 
a fiercer attack was made. 

This was not long in coming, and it was made quite unex- 





\ 

pectedly, just as, wearied out by his efforts, Captain Smithers 
had left Tom Long in command, and, yielding to the prayers of 
the major*s ^\^^, had gone in to the mess-room to partake of 
some refreshment that had been prepared- 
He had hardly eaten a mouthful ¡ª after visiting first the 
wounded men, to find them being tended by Rachel Linton and 
her cousin ¡ª before the rattle of musketry and the yelling of the 
Malays told him that something serious had occurred. 

Catching up his sword, he rushed to where he had left Tom 
Long, and in a few words he learned that from two points the 
Malays had suddenly commenced their attack, which was now 
being carried on in so fierce a manner that unless they received 
a sufficiently severe check to quell their courage, they would 
force the defences, and overpower the little garrison by sheei 
weight of numbers. 

Fortunate it was that the defences had been so well strength- 
ened, the men firing from behind barricades roughly constructed 
of tables, the mess forms, and bedding ; but in spite of the heavy 
fire kept up and the number that fell, the Malays dashed up, 
striving to clamber over, and thrusting their spears through the 
openings in a way that kept the men back, and nearly crushed 
the fire that had sputtered from the various loopholes that had 
been left. 

Affairs were growing very serious, for Captain Smithers, who 
had been going from place to place, advising, cheering, and 
helping the men, suddenly had his attention drawn to the fact 
that a large party oi Malays were bringing bundles of wood, 
branches of trees, and handfuls of resin, which they were piling 
up against the barricaded door. 

This he well knew meant fire, and the question arose how it 
was to be stopped. 

" They must never be allowed to light it, my lads, as our lives 
and those of the ladies would not be worth five minutes' purchase. 
Cease firing on this side, and reserve your cartridges for any who 
come to fire the pile." 

The men responded with a grim smile, and stood waiting for 
the party whose duty it would be to try and bum them out ; and 
in this time of mortal peril, when danger of so great a kind stared 
them in the face, the men stood patiently awaiting their fate, seem- 
ing the while to repose the greatest confidence in their captain, 
and standing ready to obey his orders to the last 

It was a splendid example of what discipline and confidence 
could effect. The men felt that if their lives were to be saved it 
would be through carefully carrying out the wishes of their 





officers, and hence no murmui was heard, each man's face 
wearing a grim look of determination, that seemed to be intensified 
as Sergeant Lund came round laden with cartridges, a packet of 
which he handed to each in turn, 

" Some sergeants," he said, as he finished his task and stood 
rifle in hand by the group whose duty it was to shoot down the 
bearers of the dammar torches that they felt sure would be used, 
" some sergeants would, I dare say, be shaking hands with all 
their mates at a time like this, and looking at things as all over ; 
but I don*t, my lads, for I've a sort of faith in our luck turning 
up shiny side outwards ; so cheer up, all of you." 

" All right, sergeant," was the reply. 

** I wouldn*t trust too much to luck though, my lads," he con- 
tinued, " but I*d squint straight along the barrel of my rifle when 
I fired. You may be very sorry for the Malay chap you shoot 
at, but I'd shoot him first and be very sorry afterwards." 

" Right, sergeant," said Private Sim, who had been fighting 
very manfully all day ; they needn't come and be a trying to bum 
us out unless they like, need they ? " 

" No, Sim," replied the sergeant ; " but they will, and it strikes 
me that the/U be come before long, too. Isn't that smoke in 
amongst those bushes there ? " 

" Smoke it is," said one of the men, excitedly. 

" Don't jump about Hke that, my lad, but keep cool, or you'll 
be wasting your cartridges," said the sergeant. *' Where's the 
captain ? He was here just now." 

" Gone round the other side," said Sim. " Here they come, 
sure enough. Look ; there's a dozen men with torches." 

"All right, my lads," said the sergeant. " I don't see that it 
matters about the captain not being here ; you know your duty." 

" Yes, sergeant, to shoot down those men." 

" No, no, my lads ; what youVe got to do is to put those 
torches out, and the way to do it is with the bayonet Stand 
ready there to slip over the breastwork, all of you, then a sharp 
run, and meet them as they come, and then back again under 



cover. " 



As he spoke the smoke of the dammar torches could be 
seen, and some ten or twelve Malays came running across from 
the earthworks to set fire to the pile. 

There was not a man behind the breastwork whose breath did 
not come thick and fast at the sight of the Hghts; for brave as they 
were, they knew that once the building they defended caught 
fire, the dry, sun-baked wood must flare away like so much 


paper ; and there were women shut in there with them, whom it 
was their duty to defend. 

It was no wonder then that the men tightly grasped their 
bayonet-armed riiies, and stood waiting for the command, that did 
not come. For just as it was upon the sergeant's lips a panting 
noise was heard, and as every eye was directed up the riverj the 
masts of the steamer were seen coming along above the 
trees, and for the present the little garrison felt that they were 
?aved. 



CHAPTER XLIX 



HOW ALI WENT TO SPY OUT THE LAND. 



A TREMOR of excitement seemed to run through the attacking 
party ; men hurried here and there ; the bearers of the dammar 
torcfics paused irresolute, and it was evident to the besieged that 
contrary orders were being given. 

It was also evident to them that the danger signal they were 
filing was plainly understood upon the steamer, for the noise of 
the engine had not been heard a minute before there was the 
heavy report of one of the guns^ and almost simultaneously the 
crash of a shell, which burst over the heads of the thronging 
Malays, about fifty yards in front of the fort 

No one seemed to be injured, but this dire instrument of 
warfare caused a complete scare amidst the attacking party: 
men running in all directions, and then seeming to go over 
the same ground once again, as a second shell burst with its 
harsh tearing metallic-sounding crack. 

Again came the report of a gun, and the shell burst where 
the Malays were thickest, sending them scurrying like wild 
rabbits to the nearest cover, while the steamer now glided 

slowly down, closer and closer in shore, till at last she covered 
the river-face of the fort like an outwork, and a cheer rose 
from the little garrison, and was answered from the " Startler " 
as the forces, so to speak, combined, ready to act together for 
their mutual defence. 

As the steamer was rapidly moored in her new position, men 
being sent ashore with cables trcm head and stem to make fast to 
the great trees a few yards from the bank, a rush at them was 
made by the Malays, but a few well-directed shots from the 
marines' rifles were sufficient to keep them at bay till the task 
was done ; and the little garrison now joined hands with the 
steamer's crew in clearing the space between them. 

The first step taken by Captain Smithers was to regain 





possession of the outworks ¡ª ^the portion he had given up from 
being so short of defenders. 

This was accomplished without bloodshed ; for upon the 
Malays gathering in force to withstand his efforts, they were 
scattered by a shell from the steamer, which cleared the way at 
once. This being done, and a meeting effected full of hearty 
congratulations, both soldiers and sailors set to work, armed with 
spades, to throw up a trench from the outworks of the fort to 
the river, the ditch being so arranged that it took in for safety 
the trees to which the steamer was moored, and this latter now 
became as it were the river-face of the fort. 

Night had fallen long before the work was left, and this 
rendered it necessary for a retreat to fort and steamer for the 
hours intervening till daybreak, when, no interruption having 
occurred, the digging was resumed, every man toiling with his 
rifle at his side till the task was done. 

The next question was whether it would not be safer for all 
to take possession of the steamer, even though the extra defences 
had been made. 

Lieutenant Johnson argued that this would be the better plan, 
as then they could at any time effect a retreat down the river, 
and make for Singapore or Penang. 

But Captain Smithers refused to listen to this proposal 

"No," he said, "it was quite open to the ladies to take up 
their abode on board, and probably they would be more secure 
there than on shore ; but so far/' he said, " all was surmise 
about the expeditionary party. For all they knew. Captain 
Horton, Major Sandars, and their men, might have met with 
the best of treatment, and at the end of a few days they might 
return, to find the station abandoned by those left in charge." 

" I only hope they may," said the lieutenant. " For my part^ 
I feel certain that the whole of the people hereabouts are under 
the influence of the rajah, sultan included. But I will not oppose 
you, Captain Smithers, until matters come to such an extremity 
that it seems to me that we are uselessly risking life, then I must 
insist on an evacuation of the fort." 

'* I will not oppose you then," said Captain Smithers ; " but 
you see that now it is as if I asked you to resign your ship." 

Lieutenant Johnson nodded \ and it having been resolved to 
hold out to the last, hoping the while that the expedition might 
return, the next proceeding seemed to be that of sending out a 
trustworthy spy or two into the country and amongst the people. 

Both Bob Roberts and Tom Long were present at what the 
latter had importantly called the council of war, but nothing 




definite was decided upon ; and, soon after, the two friends were 
sitting beneath the shade of one of the trees, the Malays having 

withdrawn to a distance, and hostihties being for the present 
suspended. 

*'I think," said Tom Long, importantly, ''that the ladies are 
quite right in declining to leave the fort They are much safer 
tiiere." 

Bob Roberts laughed, gazed in his companion's face, and 
laughed again heartily ; to the very great disgust of Tom Long. 

" Yes," he said, gruffly, " I dare say it is very funny, and any- 
body can laugh like a buffoon about such an arrangement ; but 
how are they going to be safe on board a vessel whose officers 
camnot keep her from running aground." 

"Well that's a facer, certainly,'* said Bob, rather warmly; 
" but if you come to that, where would you have been if we 
hadn't come to your help ¡ª burnt out by this time, with your 
precious fort" 

" Bob Roberts," said Tom Long, solemnly, " or rather I 
suppose I ought to say Mr Roberts ¡ª you are about the most 
quarrelsome fellow I ever met." 

" You couldn't meet yourself," said Bob, " or you would run 
against one ten times as quarrelsome." 

" If you want to fall out," said the ensign, "you might do it 
in a gentlemanly way." 

" If you want me to punch your head, Tom Long, just say so," 
cried Bob, hotly. 

" I repeat my words," said Tom Long, with hauteur. " If you 
wish to quarrel, sir, you might do it in a gentlemanly manner." 

" Gentlemanly be hanged 1 " cried Bob. " There's nothing 
gentlemanly in quarrelling or fighting.'' 

" And refer the matter to friends," continued the young 
military officer. 

Bob's face was red as that of a turkey-cock the moment before, 
but at these words the anger seemed to pass away like a cloud 
from before the sun, and he burst into a hearty fit of laughter. 

'* Oh I " he said, '* that's what you mean is it ? Swords, or 
pistols, and seconds, early in the morning, with a doctor on the 
ground. Oh, I say, Tom Long, this is too delicious." 

" Sir 1 " exclaimed Tom Long. 

" I say it's too delicious. Duelling be hanged ; it's fools' 
work ; and I'm not quite fool enough to let a friend make a 
hole, or try to make a hole, in my precious carcase.'' 

" Sir, none but a coward would speak as you are speaking," 
cried Tom Long, indignantly. 





" Oh, wouldn't he ? '' said Bob, " Well, then, I suppose I'm a 
coward, for hang me if we don't get running risks enough from 
these coffee-coloured fellows, without trying it on among our- 
selves." 

" I thought you more of a gentleman," said Tom Long, 
contemptuously. 

" Oh, you did, did you ? " said Bob ; " and I'm a coward, am 
I ? Well, look here, my lad, it's too hot now, but if you like to 
come on board to-night, or to-morrow morning, and take off 
your jacket like a man, I'll have it out with you in the gunroom, 
and old Dick to see fair, and you can bring Private Gray or 
Sergeant Lund." 

" What do you mean ? " said Tom Long, haughtily ; " swords 
or pistols, sir ? " 

"Do I mean swords or pistols, sir?" said Bob, imitating the 
other's pompous way ; " no, sir, I don't mean either. I reserve 
those lethal weapons, sir, for Her Majesty's enemies, sir, as an 
officer and a gentleman should ; and when I fall out with a 
friend, I punch his head with my fist ¡ª like a man." 

*' Like a man ! " said Tom Long, in tones of disgust ; " like a 
schoolboy or a blackguard." 

" No, sir," said Bob, still mimicking his companion ; " the 
schoolboy or man who uses his fists is to my mind not half such 
a blackguard as the gentleman who tries to kill a fellow in cold 
blood, and calls it on account of his honour." 

" The old contemptible argument," said Tom Long, sneering, 
" No one but a coward would take refuge behind such excuses." 

*'Then I'm a coward !" said Bob, cocking his heels up on a 
chair, and sticking his hands in his pockets. " All right : I'm a 
coward ; and as we used to say at school, ' give me the coward's 
blow ; * and if you do, Tom Long, you see if I don't punch your 

head." 

Tom Long rose, and came at him menacingly, and Bob 

laughed in his face. " I say, Long, old man," he said, " what a 

jolly pair of fools we are to quarrel about nothing at all." 

" I never want to quarrel," said Tom Long, stiffly, for the 
other's mirth took him aback, " but when a fellow behaves like a 
coward ¡ª " 

" In the face of the enemy," interposed Bob, "kick him out of 
the service, military or naval, eh ? Look here, Tommy." 

" For goodness' sake, sir, don't call me by that objectionably 
childish name," cried the ensign. " How should you like to be 
called Bobby?" 

"Not much, old boy," said the middy; "but I don't much 



care. Never mind, shake hands. No, don't. Let's do it men- 
tally. Here's old Ali coming, looking as black as a civilian's 
hat. Hallo, Ali, old chap, ain't you precious proud of your dear 
fellow-countrymen ? " 

" Poor fellows ; poor fellows 1 " said Ali, sadly, as he looked 
from one to the other. 

" Poor fellows ! " said Long. 

" They're a jolly set of sharks, with stings in their tails, that's 
what they are," said Bob. 

" The poor fellows have been crushed down by cruel govern- 
ments, and made the slaves of piratical rajahs and cowardly 
sultans," cried Ali, indignantly. " They are a brave set of 
fellows, and they are only fighting against you because they are 
set on by their leaders." 

" Then all I can say is," said Bob, " that I should like to have 
a pop at their leaders. But cheer up, old chap, you needn't 
look so down-hearted." 

" Not look down-hearted," cried Ali, passionately, " how can I 
look otherwise ? Where is my father ? Where are our friends ? 
What is my position here? Do you think it gives me pleasure 
to see the poor brave men who are fighting against you shot 
down by your guns ? It makes me wretched." 

" Well, never mind," cried Bob, kindly, as he rose and clapped 
the young chief on the shoulder. " It will all come right in the 
end." 

" I hope so," said Ali ; " but tell me, what have you decided 
to do ? " 

" Well, that's announcing the secrets of the council of war," 
said Bob. "Shall I tell him. Long?" 

" Oh, yes, we can trust him," replied the ensign. " We are 
going to stay and fight it out." 

" Of course, of course," said Ali, nodding. " You could not 
give up. You must not give up." 

" But we want to get some news of the expedition party by 
sending a trustworthy spy," said Bob. " Can you get us a man 
whom you can trust ? " 

Ali stood thinking for a few moments, and then shook his 

head sadly. 

*'They would all say the risk is too great. They would lose 

their lives if discovered." 

"Then what is to be done ?" cried Bob. 

Ali stood thinking for a few moments in silence, and then he 
looked frankly from one to the other. 

" I will go myself," he said. 



The two young men stared at him. 

" You ?" they exclaimed in one breath, " Why, just now you 
said the risk was too great." 

** That the men would lose their lives ! " cried Bob Roberts. 

" If they were discovered ! " exclaimed Tom Long. 

" Yes," said Ali, quietly, and he smiled back in their astonished 
faces. 

" And yet you would run that risk ? " said Bob Roberts, 

" Yes : why not ? " 

" But for us ? " 

*' Is one's life to be devoted to oneself?" said Ali calmly. " I 
am not as you are. You are Christians, I am a follower of the 
prophet. We call you dogs and giaours. You look upon us 
with contempt. But men are but men the whole world over, 
and it seems to me that one's life cannot be better spent than 
in trying to do good to one's friends." 

** But," said Tom Long, " you would be fighting against your 
friends, the Malays." 

" No," said Ali, mournfully. " I should be fighting for them 
in doing anything that would free chem from the rule of idle 
sensualists and pirates." 

"I tell you what,** cried Bob Roberts, enthusiastically, "well 
whop old Hamet and Rajah Gantang out of their skins, and you 
shall be sultan instead, or your father first and you aftenvards," 

All's eyes flashed as he turned them upon the speaker. 

" You could be chief banjo, you know," said Bob. 

" Chief ¡ª banjo ? " said Ali, wonderingly. 

"No, no ; I mean gong ¡ª Tumongong," cried Bob. 

"Oh, yes," said Ali, smiling. " But no, no : that is a dream. 
Let us be serious. One of your people could not go, it would 
be impossible ; but I am a Malay, and if I dress myself as a 
common man ¡ª a slave ¡ª I could follow where the hunting party 
went, and find out all you want to know," 

" No, no," cried Bob, earnestly, " I should not like that.** 

" Like what, Mr Roberts ? " said a voice that made them 
start ; and turning sharply, they saw Captain Smithers standing 
by them, with Lieutenant Johnson. 

" Mr Ali here wants to dress up as a common Malay, sir, 
and go as a spy to get news of the hunting party." 

" It would be excellent," cried the lieutenant, " Mr Ali, you 
would confer a lasting favour upon us." 

" But have you thought of the risk ? " said Captain Smithers. 
" I have thought of everything," said the young man, quietly. 
They all sat down together under the shade of the great tree 


where they were, and the matter was talked over, it being de- 
cided that from time to time Ali was to send messengers with 
news of his progress, if he could find any trustworthy enough j 
and all being arranged, he left them, to make preparations for 
his departure, shaking hands warmly with all, and then going 
towards the barracks, but only to return directly. 

" As you may suppose," he said, " my success depends upon 
my not being apparently known to you ; so if a strange Malay is 
seen leaving your lines, don't let him be fired at." 

" Of course not : I see," exclaimed Captain Smithers. " But 
shall we see you again ? " 

" Not to speak to," replied Ali, smiling ; and as soon as he 
had gone. Captain Smithers walked across the ground to give 
orders about a strange Malay being allowed to leave. 

Lieutenant Johnson returned on board the steamer with Bob 
Roberts ; and Tom Long, after seating himself comfortably in 
one chair with his legs in another, went off fast asleep. 

Half an hour after, when all was very still in the burning heat 
of the sun, when not a breath of air rippled the river or rustled 
through the trees ; when Englishman and Malay were resting, 
and the very sentries had hard work to keep from going to sleep 
at their posts, there was a soft rustling noise in the tree beneath 
which Tom Long was sleeping ; and after this had been repeated 
several times a lithe Malay softly descended till he was within 
six or eight feet of the ground, when he slipped and fell, but 
regained his feet instantly, as Tom Long started into wakefulness 
and clapped his hand to his sword, upon seeing the strange 
Malay just before him. 

The Malay, however, raised one hand deprecatingly, and 
smiled a very significant smile as he turned to go. 

" Here, stop 1 surrender ! Why ¡ª Oh I I say, Ali ; that's 
capital," he said, as the Malay still smiled at him. " You quite 
took me in." 

The Malay smiled and nodded, and walked straight off to 
where a sentry was watching them both ; and the man, seeing 
the Malay come straight from his officer, made way, saluted, and 
the dark figure passed from the fortified lines and walked away 
towards where the enemy lay amongst the trees. 

" That's a brave thing to do," muttered Tom Long, and resum- 
ing his seat he took another sleep, and was awakened the next 
time by Captain Smithers laying his hand upon his shoulder. 
"Ali has gone," he said. 

" Yes, I know," said Tom Long. " He quite took me in. It 
a splendid disguise." 



''Capital I" said Captain Smithers. " The very sentries were 

puzzled." 

" Yes, of course they would be," replied Tom Long ; and the 
captain walked away. 

" The sentries must have been puzzled before he came to me," 
said Tom Long to himself. " That man yonder, though, seemed 
to take it as a matter of course. I shall be very glad, though, 
when all this hiding and dodging is over, and the hunting party 
are back, for I am not going to believe that they are in danger 
after all." 

And yet Tom Long did believe it, and was as uneasy as the 
rest ; but it was his way of trying to put a good face upon matters. 



CHAPTER L. 



HOW BOB FISHED FOR MISS LINTON. 

To the surprise and gratification of the English party, the jungle 
station remained unmolested for the next two days, giving them 
ample time to make such little additions to the defences as the 
officers thought needful The coming of the steamer gave the 
occupants of the fort command of the water and a way of retreat 
in case of extremities ; moreover, they had the chance of sharing 
the ship's provisions. So that with the knowledge of their power 
of resistance a feeling of confidence began to exist, especially as 

it was evident that the Malays had been taught the danger of 

molesting the little party. 

The enemy came and went from the island in large numbers, 
but kept entirely aloof, making no attempt to communicate ; 
while their strange silence excited suspicion in Captain Smithers' 
mind that some plot was hatching. 

The lieutenant joined him in thinking that there was cause for 
suspicion, and more stringent watch was kept 

Old Dick regretted keenly that for reasons of economy the 
furnace fires could not be kept up, for he argued still that 
plenty of hot water was all that was needed to keep them safe. 
He had, however, to be content with the ordinary precautions, 
promising himself the extraordinaiy as soon as the fires were lit 

The ladies had full occupation in tending the wounded, an 
occupation which saved them from much thinking; for there 
were no tidings of the party, and now that so long a time had 
elapsed it became evident that their worst fears would be 
realized. 

In fact the officers began to debate whether the hour had not 
arrived when they ought to retreat ; but the idea was set aside, 
and once more they determined to hold the station till help 
should come, since for the steamer to go in search of help was 
to condemn the little garrison of the fort to destruction. 

And now as the hours slowly crept by, with the heat and in- 




action growing more and more difficult to bear, every thought 
was directed to the envoy they had sent out, and they waited 
anxiously for All's return, or for some messenger with tidings at 
his hands. 

Though the Malays refrained from attack so long as the 
occupants of the station kept within their lines, any attempt at 
quitting the fort at once drew fire. Consequently the supplies 
within had to suffice, and middy and ensign thought gloomily 
of the past, when sampans brought daily an abundance of deli- 
cious fruit, when flowers were abundant, and fish in plenty was 

supplied. 

Now it was bread or biscuit, and preserved meat either salt or 
tinned, and preserved vegetables, and so much soup that Bob 
Roberts said a man might just as well be living in a workhouse. 

That evening he made up his mind to try for some fish, and 
aided and abetted by Dick, a line was rigged up, and payed out 
over the steamer's stem, the stream carrying down the baited 
hook, but only into a place where there was no likelihood of a 
fish being caught. So another line was attached, and another, 
and another ¡ª long sea-lines each of them, till Bob Roberts sat 
fishing with the end of a line in his hand and his bait about a 
quarter of a mile down the stream. 

To his great delight he found the plan to answer, for before 
long he felt a tug, and drew in a good sized fish. This done, 
he rebaited, and tried again, sometimes catching, sometimes 
losing, a couple dropping off the hook just as they were raised up 
level with the deck. 

It was about an hour before sunset that Bob Roberts set 

Dick to work winding up the lines on the reels to dry, and then, 
having placed the brilliantly scaled fish in the basket, he 
obtained leave from the lieutenant, who looked longingly at 
the catch, and involuntarily made the noise with his lips custom- 
ary with some people at the sight of anything nice. 

"What are you going to do with those, Roberts ?" he said. 

" Take them to the ladies, sir." 

"Ah! yes: of course, the ladies first. We ought to study the 
ladies. But do you know, Roberts, I'm not a ladies' man, and I 
feel an intense desire to have one of those fish ¡ª broiled." 

" Yes, sir, of course ; but I'll come back and catch some more." 
" Yes, do," said Lieutenant Johnson, gazing longingly at the 
fish. " There," he cried hastily ; " for goodness' sake be off 
with them, Roberts, or I shall impound the lot and hand them 
over to the cook. You ought not to put such temptations in a 
weak man's way." 




" All right, sir," said Bob, and he hurried over the side and 
made for the barracks, where, to his great delight, he met 
Rachel Linton, looking very pale and ill, coming away from the 
temporary hospital with her cousin. 

" I've brought you some fish, Miss Linton," he said. " I 
thought they would be welcome just now, as there axe no fresh 
provisions." 

" Doubly welcome, Mr Roberts," cried Miss Linton, with her 
face lighting up. " Oh ! Mary, I am glad. Mr Roberts, I can 
never thank you enough." 

Bob felt rather disgusted that the idol he had worshipped 
should be so fond of the good things of this life. 

" I have been longing for fresh fish, and fruit, and flowers, so, 
Mr Roberts," she continued. ** You cannot get me any fruit or 
flowers, I suppose?" 

" I could go and try for some," said Bob, rather glumly, " but 
you mustn*t be surprised if I don't come back." 

" Oh, no, no ; you must not run any risks," cried Rachel 
Linton. "That would be madness, but I'd give anything for 
some fruit now.'* 

"She'd better think about her father," thought Bob, "instead 
of eating and drinking." 

" Those poor wounded fellows do suffer so for want of change ; 
but this fish will be delicious. Poor Parker will eat some, I 
know. If you can get any fruit for my hospital people, pray do 
so, Mr Roberts." 

"That I will, Miss Linton," he cried joyously. 

"And you'll catch me some more fish for the poor fellows?" 

" Are you going to give all these to the wounded men, Miss 
Linton ? " he said. 

" Yes ; of course," she replied. 

" Why she's an angel," thought Bob to himself, " and I was 
giving her the credit of being a regular pig." 

"Messenger? For me?" exclaimed Captain Smithers, rising 
up as a soldier advanced. 

" Yes, sir ; it's a Malay, and he says he has been sent by the 
young chief, AIL" 



CHAPTER LI 



DEALINGS WITH THE DE2P. 

There was no little excitement at this announcement, and 
Captain Smithers sent at once for Lieutenant Johnson from the 
steamer, while a file of soldiers went for the messenger who had 
asked for admission. 

The ladies were too much interested to think of leaving, so 
Mary Sinclair ran to fetch Mrs Major Sandars, and returned 
with her to see that a rough-looking Malay had been brought up 
to the group she had left. 

Captain Smithers waited a few moments, to allow of the 
coming of the lieutenant ; and meanwhile they all gazed at the 
Malay, a wild, half-naked fellow, whose scraps of clothing were 
torn by contact with thorns, and being soaked with water clung 
to his copper-coloured skirt 

He was scratched and bleeding, and gazed sharply round from 
one to the other in a strange wild-eyed way, as if feeling that he 
was not safe. 

Just then the lieutenant came hurrying up, and the Malay, evi- 
dently supposing him to be the officer he sought,|began to unfasten 
a knot in his sarong, from which he took a short piece of bamboo 
about the size of a man's finger. One end of this was plugged 
with a piece of pith, and this he drew out, and then from inside, 
neatly rolled up and quite dry, a little piece of paper. 

" You Cap-tain Smit-ter ?" said the Malay. 

" No, my man, that is the captain," said the lieutenant, pointing. 

" Cap-tain Smit-ter. Ali Rajah send," said the man, holding 
out the paper. 

" Did Ali send us this ?" said the captain, eagerly. 

" Captain Smit-ter, Ali Rajah send," said the man again. 

" Where did you leave him ?*' said the captain. 

" Cap ¡ª tain Smit ¡ª ter, AJi Rajah send," repeated the man, 
parrot fashion, showing plainly enough that he had been trataed 
to use these words and no more. 





Captain Smithers unrolled the scrap of native paper to find 
written thereon, ¡ª 

" Found the party. Fighting for life in a stockade. Send help 
in steamer up right river.¡ª" All'* 

" Have you come straight from him ?" exclaimed the captain, 
eagerly. 

" Cap ¡ª tain Smit ¡ª ter, AH Rajah send," said the man again, 

" Where is Wilson ?" cried the captain, " or Gray ? Ah, you 
are here, Gray. You have made some progress with the Malay 
tongue. See what this man knows." 

Private Gray came forward, and by degrees, and with no little 
difficulty, learned from the Malay that the English party were 
in an old stockade up on a branch of the river, forty miles away, 
defending themselves against a strong body of the sultan's forces. 

" Ask if they are well," said the captain. 

" He says there are many ill, and many wounded, and that 
they have buried many under the palm trees," said Gray, in a low 
sad voice, " and that when the young chief, Ali, came upon them, 
they were at the last extremity from weakness and hunger," 

Rachel Linton uttered a low wail, but on Mrs Major Sandars 
passing an arm round her, she made an effort and mastered her 
emotion, fixing her eyes on Adam Gray as, in a low, deep voice 
he continued the narrative after, at Captain Smithers' wish, again 
questioning the Malay. 

" He says that after giving him the message to bear, the young 
chief, Ali, left him, saying that he was about to try and join the 
party in the old stockade, and fight with them to the end ! " 

There was a mournful silence at this, and lor a few moments no 
one spoke. Then Captain Smithers leaned towards Lieutenant 
Johnson. 

" Have you any questions to put ?" he said. 

" Yes," replied the lieutenant, and he tmned round to their 
interpreter, 

** Tell me. Gray, what is your opinion of the messenger ?" 

" At first, sir, I thought him genuine ; but since then, there is 
something in his manner that makes me doubt the truth of his 
tale." 

" And yet it seems feasible ?*' 

" Yes, sir, it does ; and I confess I have little cause for doubt- 
ing him ; but still I do," 

Lieutenant Johnson turned to Captain Smithers, and they went 
aside for a few minutes talking earnestly together, while all 
present watched eagerly for the next scene in the drama they 
were passing through. 




"Gray," said Captain Smithers then, sharply, "ask the mes- 
senger if he knows where the old stockade is.'* 

** He says^w, sir, perfectly well." 

" Ask him if he will guide the steamer there." 

" Yes ! " was the reply, " if the English officers would protect 
him from his people, and not let him be seen." 

" Tell him," said Captain Smithers, " that if he is faithful he 
will be handsomely paid; if he is treacherous, he will be hung 
to the yard-arm of the steamer, and his body thrown to the 
crocodiles." 

Gray interpreted this to the Malay, who smiled, uncovered the 
hilt of his kris, drew it, took it by the blade, and knelt down 
before the officers, placing the point upright on the left shoulder 
close to his neck, then reaching oat with his right hand, he 
motioned to Captain Smithers to strike the weapon down into his 
breast. 

" He says his life is yours, sir, and bids you kill him if he does 
not lead you to the stockade." 

" One more question," said Lieutenant Johnson. " Ask him 
if there is water enough up the right river? " 

Gray questioned the Malay, who nodded eagerly and then shook 
his head. 

"He says there is plenty of water, for the river is narrow and 
very deep, all but in once place, about a mile from the stockade, 
and of that he is not sure, he will not pledge himself to its being 
sufficiently deep ; but all Rajah Gantang's prahus have gone up 
and down in safety." 

" That will do," said the lieutenant. 

" Yes," said Captain Smithers, " take him aside, give him some 

food, and guard him well." 

It fell to the lot of Adam Gray to take charge of the Malay 
who ate voraciously of what was placed before him, and then 
smiling his satisfaction he prepared himself a piece of betel nut, 
and lying down in the shade went off fast asleep, evidently 
wearied out. 

Meanwhile a short consultation was held, during which it was 
settled that at any risk the steamer must go to the assistance of 
the beleaguered party, Captain Smithers being on the alert to 
retire into the barracks when it became necessary. 

This place he would have to hold with stubborn determination, 
knowing that the steamer could not be long away, and that 
Lieutenant Johnson was going with the knowledge that those he 
left behind were in need of help. 

The fires were lit on the instant, and every effort made to get 





the steam up, but all was done as quietly as possible, so as not 
to take the Itention of the Malays, and about ten o'clock all was 
ready for the start, when Adam Gray went and roused up the 
Malay. 

The man rose, shook himself, and then accompanied his guide 
without a word, climbing the side of the steamer, where every- 
thing was ready ; the cables were cast loose, and at half-steam 
the great vessel moved softly up the river by the light of the stars, 
which just made their way visible. 

As far as they could see, the alarm of the departure had not 
been spread ; and the steamer glided away so softly, and with so 
little noise, that there was the chance of her escaping the notice 
of the Malays, who might not find out their departure until 
morning. 

This would delay any attack that might be made for many 
hours ; but all the same. Captain Smithers felt it better to at once 
evacuate the outer works, and two hours after the steamer had 
glided away, almost invisible to those who saw her go, the outer 
works were lying unguarded, and the whole of the force safely 
barricaded in the stronghold, with every sentry on the alert. 

Everything had been done in the quietest manner. There 
was neither noise nor loud order; the men caught the lightest 
whisper ; and there was something weird and strange-looking in 
the silent figures moving here and there ; but nothing like so 
weird of aspect as about a couple of dozen dark shadows that 
were creeping over the ground taking advantage of every bush 
or inequality of the ground to cover their movements till they 
reached the deserted earthworks and crouched there exultingly. 

An hour later the sky was overclouded ; and in the darkness 
the Malays came crowding up by hundreds, evidently ready for 
an assault, while most ominous of all was the fact that numbers 
of them bore bundles of light wood, and some lumps of dammar 
ready to continue the task they had had to give up consequent 
upon the steamer's return. 



CHAPTER LIL 



HOW THE STEAMER WENT UP THE RIGHT ARM OF THE RIVER. 

A NIGHT journey on a river when the stars give but little light 
and the banks are dense jungle overhanging the water's edge, is 
one of no little difficulty. Certainly the crew of the steamer had 
upon their side the fact, that the stream, though swift, was deep, 
and its bottom mud. There were no rocks and cataracts to en- 
counter in its lower course ; and even if they did run aground 
there was but little risk to the vessel. But all the same the most 
constant watchfulness was needed, and Lieutenant Johnson him- 
self joined the look-out at the bows, communicating by a chain 
of his men with the engine-room and man at the wheel. 

For some distance after leaving the island they proceeded very 
slowly, little more that mastering the stream ; but as soon as they 
felt that they were beyond hearing the speed was increased, and 
for some miles¡ª through which the course of the river was well 
known ¡ª the " Startler " proceeded at a pretty good rate, so that 

by morning half the journey was accomplished, and they were 
abreast of the stockade they had attacked and destroyed. 

About a couple of miles past this the course of the right river 
opened out, one that a navigator strange to the river would have 
hesitated to take, for it was narrow at the mouth, overgrown with 
trees, and seemed to form a chain of lakes, that were one blaze 
of colour with the blossom of the lotus. 

On the other hand, what seemed the regular course of tne river 
ran broad and clear, and apparently without obstruction of any 
kind. 

The Malay, who was leaning over the bulwark with his mouth 
distended with betel, pointed one brown arm towards the narrow 
branch, and the steamer's engines were slackened and nearly 
stopped while a boat was lowered, and the crew rowed some 
little distance along the winding, sluggish stream, sounding every 
few yards, to find the river extremely deep with muddy bottom ; 
and as it seemed to wind right on precisely the same in character, 





they returned and reported the result to the lieutenant, who at 
once gave orders, and the steamer entered the narrow, winding 
way. 

To all appearance they might have been the first visitors to 
those regions, so haunted was the strangely beautiful scene by wild 
creatures. Birds in abundance fled at their approach. Now it 
was a white eagle, then a vividly plumaged kingfisher, or a kind 
of black, racket-tailed daw with glossy plumage. Parrots of a 
diminutive size and dazzling green plumage flitted before them ; 
and from time to time the lotus leaves were agitated by a shoal 
of fish, that alarmed by the wash of the steamer rushed away. 

Every now and then, too, Bob Roberts, who was feasting on 
what passed like a glorious panorama before him, had his adven- 
ture with Ali in the shooting trip brought vividly to mind, for 
some huge reptile or another shuffled into the slow stream, while 
others lay sluggishly basking, and ill-disposed to move. 

Their progress was slow, for the screw propeller was more than 
once fouled by the thick weed through which they ploughed their 
Way. So dense was it that at times it gathered in large cables, 
stretching from bank to bank, and literally barring further pro- 
gress, till the steamer was backed and ariven at full speed against 
the obstruction, which divided and swept off in hillocks to star- 
board and to port. 

Then a more open stretch of water would be gained, widening 
quite into a lake, and framed in glorious tropical verdure ; large 
pools would be quite free from vegetable growth, and so clear 
that the bright scales of the fish could be seen flashing far below. 
Then the river seemed to wind its way through dense growths of 
lily and other water plants, amidst which water-fowl in endless 
numbers disported themselves, but fled away at the sight of the 
steamer, panting onward through this wilderness of beauty. 

For in spite of the anxiety felt by all, and their eagerness to 
reach the spot where their friends were in peril, it was impossible 
to help gazing with wonder and admiration at the loveliness of all 
around. Where the stream narrowed, the great trees growing to 
the water's edge formed huge walls of verdure, in parts a hundred 
¡ª two hundred feet high ; and over and amidst these wreathed 
and twined the beautiful creepers, filling up every gap with 
leaves of the most delicious, tender green. Then a tree would 
be passed one mass of white and tinted blossoms, another of 
scarlet, and again another of rich crimson, while in every damp, 
sun-flecked opening wondrous orchids could be seen carpeting 
the earth with their strange forms and glowing colours. Pitcher 
plants too, some of huge size, dotted the ground every here and 




there where the steamer passed close to the shore ¡ª so close at 
times that the ends of the yards brushed the trees ; and yet the 
vessel took no harm, for the deep water ran in places to the 
banks, and though often half covered with weedy growth, the 
river was canal-like in its deeper parts, where the sluggish stream 
steadily flowed along to join its more rapid brother miles below. 

For some time now Lieutenant Johnson had been bitterly 
regretting that he had not insisted upon bringing Private Gray, 
so as to have an interpreter, for his own knowledge of the Malay 
tongue was almost nil. And yet he was obliged to own that it 
would have been unjust to rob them at the station of part of 
their strength, when at any moment they might want it alL 

Bob Roberts was the better Malay scholar of the two, but his 
vocabulary only extended to asking for a durian, Good morning ! 
How are you? and the favourite Malay proverbial saying, ¡ª 
^^Apa boleh booatT* ¡ª It was to be, or It couldn't be helped. 

They had been progressing now for hours, and the heat was 
insufferable ¡ª a heavy, moist heat, in that narrow way, shut in 
between two walls of verdure, and yet there seemed to be no 
signs of their journey being nearly ended. Under the circum- 
stances Bob Roberts was set to try and get some information 
out of their guide, whom he tried with *' Good morning," in the 
Malay tongue ; and then, after a civil answer to his remark, 
plunged at once into plain English with, ¡ª 

" How much farther is it ? " 

The Malay looked hard in his eyes, and Bob repeated the 
question. 

The Malay seemed to divine what he meant, for he raised one 
bare brown arm and pointed forward along the course of the 
river. 

It was a mute but conclusive reply, telling the middy plainly 
enough that they had fartner to go, and once more the attention 
of all was taken up by the navigation of the narrow, winding 
channel 

Still there was no fault to be found with Ali's message, for the 
water was deep, and though the steamer seemed at times to be 
running light into the bank, there was always room to turn what 
looked to be an ugly curve, and onward they went through the 
dense jungle. 

On either side the primeval forest seemed to stretch away, 
and where there were changes of a more park-like character, so 
rare was the sight of a human being there that the shy pea-fowl, 
all metallic plumage and glorious eyes, could be seen gazing at 
the steamer before taking flight There were deer too seen 



occasionally, and had this been a pleasure trip the sportsman 
would have had ample use for rifle or gun. 

But this was no pleasure trip, for the deck was cleared for 
action, and the men were at their quarters, ready to send shot 
or shell hurtling through the jungle whenever there should be a 
reason for such a step. 

Another hour, and another, and still the Malay guide pointed 
before him, gesticulating a little sometimes as if bidding them 
hasten onwards. 

The speed was increased at such times, though it was risky, 
for the narrowness of the course, and the size of the steamer, 
rendered the greatest care necessary to avoid running her bows 
in among the trees. 

Lieutenant Johnson stamped impatiently at last as the sun was 
descending behind the trees, and still the Malay pointed onwards. 

** It is enough to make one think it a wild goose chase !" he 
exclaimed. " We have made a grievous mistake in not having 
an interpreter. Roberts, you ought to be able to speak the 
Malay tongue." 

" Yes, sir," said Bob, " I ought I " And then to himself, " So 
ought you ! " 

Another hour and they were passing through a denser part than 
ever ; so close were they that the large drooping boughs of some 
of the trees cracked and rustled and snapped as they passed by 
to get to what seemed to be quite a lagoon shining clear and 
silvery, as seen by those on board the steamer through quite a 
tunnel of overhanging branches. 

" We ought to be able to hear firing by this time if it is going 
on at the stockade," said the lieutenant. "What a place to 
bring Her Majesty's ship into ! If I did not know that those poor 
fellows were anxiously expecting help, not a fathom further 
would I take the steamer than into yon open water to-night ! 
Here ! fetch that Malay fellow here, and let's see if we cannot 
get something out of him ! " 

Bob Roberts went forward to where the Malay stood leaning 
over the bulwarks gazing at the trees on either side ¡ª at least he 
went to where the Malay did stand gazing at the trees, but now 
to Bob's astonishment the man was not there ! 

''Where's the Malay guide ? " he said sharply to Dick, who was 
nearest to him. 

'* Well, sir, if you^call that there chap a guide," said Dick, " I've 
done." 

*'I say Where's the Malay guide?" said Bob, angrily. 

" Haven't seen him, sir," said Dick, touching his cap. 





" But he was standing here not ten minutes ago, just before 
we brushed against those trees I " exclaimed the young officer. 

" Well yes, sir, I remember as he was," said old Dick, and 
several of the sailors were ready to affirm that they saw him not 
five minutes before. 

A look round the deck showed that he was not there, and Bob 
stood looking puzzled ; for the man had evidently looked upon 
himself almost as a prisoner, and not free to go about ; he had 
consequently stood leaning against the port bulwark all the time, 
except when he had squatted on the deck to partake of the 
food supplied to him. 

" Couldn't have been knocked overboard by the boughs, could 
he, sir ? " said Dick. 

" Impossible ! " exclaimed the middy ; and he hurried off to 
report the fact that the Malay was missing. 

" Are you sure ? " exclaimed the lieutenant sharply. 

** Certain, sir ! He's nowhere on deck !" 

'* I thought as much ! *' cried the lieutenant angrily. *' Good 
heavens, Roberts ! that we could have been such idiots ! Gray 
was right ! " 

**I do not understand you, sir." 

" Understand ? It's plain enough 1 That man. Private Gray, 
said he suspected the fellow, and yet we allowed him to gull us 
with his plausible story. Here, look sharp there ! " he cried, as 
the steamer stood out now free of the tunnel-like canal through 
which she had passed, and was now approaching the centre of a 
tolerably broad lagoon- 

The lieutenant gave his command in short, sharp, decisive 
tones, and a minute later a little anchor fell with a splash into 
the water, and the steamer swung in the just perceptible stream. 

" I dare not attempt the journey back to-night, Roberts,'* he 

said. " We should be aground in the thick darkness before we 
had gone a mile." 

"But won't you go forward, sir? We must be near the 
stockade ! " exclaimed Bob. 

" If we go on till the river becomes a ditch, we shall find no 

stockade here, Roberts 1 " cried the lieutenant. *' Why should 
there be one? There is neither campong nor sampan upon the 
river, and it is evident that there is no trade. No, Roberts, we 
have been tricked ¡ª cheated, and we must get back at full speed 
as soon as day begins to break. I have been uncomfortable for 
hours now, as I felt that our poor friends could never have come 
through such a forest as this. It is only passable for beasts I * 
" But the Malay and his message ? " 





" The Malay is as great a cheat as the old fniit-seller ; and 
that message was never written by young Ali, unless he, too, is 
an enemy 

" My life upon it, he is not," cried Bob. 

" Then either he has been killed, or our plans were overheard, 
or betrayed, or something or another ! That fellow ¡ª I see it all 
now it is too late ¡ª has quietly led us up here, awaiting his 
chance, and it came when those big boughs swept the side. He 
swung himself into one of the trees, and is by this time on his 
way back to his friends." 

" But the jungle is not passable ! " siid Bob. 

" Then he will make a bamboo raft and get down the riven 
Oh, that we could be such fools P' 

Bob Roberts stood in the gathering darkness staring at his 
superior oificer, and trying hard to believe that the Malay might 
have been swept over by accident ; but by degrees he felt his 
mind veering round to the lieutenant's ideas. 

The next minute orders were being given respecting the watch 
on deck, every light was extinguished, and extra care taken lest 
they should have been led into a trap and attempts be made to 
board the steamer during the night. But as the hours glided on, 

all they heard was the distant roar of some beast of prey, or an 
occasional splash in the water ¡ª sounds that had a strange attrac- 
tion for Bob Roberts, as, with no thought of going to his cot, he 
leaned against the bulwark watching the fire-fiies amid the trees, 
and mournfully wondered how they were getting on at the 
station, and what had become of Ali, shuddering again and 
again as the lieutenant's ominous words recurred to his mind. 



CHAPTER LIIL 



PRIVATE SIM IS VERY WIDE AWAKE. 



Lieutenant Johnson had said that in all probability All had 
been killed, this being of course his surmise, for he had no real 
reason for such an assertion. He was quite right, though, about 
having been tricked, for one of Rajah Gantang's cleverest spies 
after hearing from his hiding-place the plans that had been 
made, assumed the part of Ali in disguise, and passed un- 
challenged by the sentries to go straight to the rajah and plan 
with him a way to divide the forces by sending the steamer upon 
a false scent. 

This had been done, with the success that has been seen. 
But though the little garrison was awakened to a sense of its 
danger very soon after the steamer had taken its departure, it did 
not realize the fact that they had all been deceived. 

All the requisite precautions had been taken, and saving the 
guard, the little garrison had lain down to sleep, according to 
Captain Smithers' instructions, for he had addressed them 
before they were dismissed. 

'* There may be no danger," he had said, " but we must be on 
the alert, so let every man lie down in his clothes, with his arms 
close at hand. Sergeant Lund, see that the men's pouches are 
supplied with cartridges. To-morrow, my lads, I hope to see 
the steamer back, with our rescued friends I " 

The men gave a cheer and departed. The guard was relieved, 
and Captain Smithers stood talking to Tom Long. 

?* My dear lad," said the former, ** there is not the slightest 
need for any such proceeding. Go and lie down. I shall visit 
the sentries for the first half of the night, and I will call you 
about three." 

" I don't feel much disposed for sleep," said Tom Long, whc 
looked uneasy. 

" You are not welL The heat has overdone vou a little. You 




go and have a good sleep," said the captain. " To-morrow I 
hope we shall have the doctor back among us to set us right." 

** I hope so, too," said Tom Long, gloomily ; and going to his 
quarters he lay down, with his sword and revolver beside him, 
ready for use. 

Adam Gray was off duty, and he, too, had gone to lie down. 
But he could not sleep, neither did he wish to do anything else 
but lie there and think about Rachel Linton, and how pale and 
unhappy she appeared. He longed to speak words of comfort to 
her, and to say others as well j but he dared not, for his position 
forbade it. Still he could not help feeling that she did not look 
unkindly upon him, nor seem to consider him to be one of the 
ordinary soldiers. 

He sighed as he thought of other days, and then lay listening 
to the humming noise made by the mosquitoes ¡ª wondered 
whether Rachel Linton was asleep or awake ¡ª whether, if she 
was awake, she was thinking of him. 

Then he drove away the thoughts with an angry exclamation, 
and determined to think about her no more. But as he turned 
his face to the open window, and listened to the faint hum of 
the night insects, Rachel Linton's face came back, and he was 
thinking of her again, and this time in connection with Captain 
Smithers. 

He knew the captain loved her, and instinctively hated him 
¡ª Private Gray. He felt, too, that by some means or another 
the captain knew of, and hated him for, his presumptuous love ; 
the more so that Rachel Linton did not seem to care in the 
slightest degree for the captain's adv^ices, but rather avoided 
him. 

Private Gray turned again and again, but he could not lie 
there any longer for the uneasy feeling that tormented him. 

The men in the long room slept easily enough, but he could 
not, and he told himself that he might just as well get up and 
go and watch with one of the sentries, for then he would be 
doing something towards protecting the station. 

He rose then softly, and fastening on his belt with the bayonet 
attached, he went cautiously out into the night air, to see that 
though the stars twinkled brightly, the night was very dark. 
All was perfectly still, and as he went cautiously round every man 
seemed to be on the watch, when suddenly a thought struck 
him which sent a cold shiver through his breast 

He was standing just beneath the window of the officers' 
quarters, where he knew that Rachel Linton and her cousin 
would be sleeping, and the sentry nearest, the man who should 




be on the keenest watch, was, if he was not mistaken, Private 
Sim. 

He could not make out for certain from where he stood, but 
he felt almost certain that this was the case, and that Sim was 
occupying the most important outpost of the little fort 

With his heart beating wildly he crept back to the place 
where the men lay asleep, and going on tiptoe from one to the 
other, he satisfied himself by the dim light of the lamp swinging 
from the roof that Private Sim was not there. 

" It was utter madness," he muttered to himself. ** Lund 
should have known," and in his excitement he recalled to mind 
the night when he had found him asleep. 

He remembered, too, what a fearful night that was, and 
he felt that this might prove to be just as dangerous, as he 
hurried back, catching up his rifle and pouch as he went, and 
then going quietly along to where Private Sim was stationed. 

It was undoubtedly the weakest spot about the fort, and in 
place of one untrustworthy man, two of the most trusty should 
have been stationed there. By some error of judgment, how- 
ever, this was not done, and Private Sim held the lives of all 
in the little fort within his hand. 

Gray thought that after all he might be misjudging him, and 
therefore he went on cautiously, listening as he stopped from 
time to time, and expecting to be challenged ; but there was no 
sound to be heard, and as Gray went closer it seemed to him 
as if no sentry had been placed there. But as he went nearer 
there was no error of judgment upon his part. It was as he 
suspected. Private Sim was seated on the ground, his rifle 
across his lap, fast asleep, and quite oblivious of the fact that 
his messmate stood close beside him, panting with rage and 
disgust. 

" You scoundrel ! " he cried in a low, passionate voice. " Do 
you not know that the punishment may be death for sleeping 
at a time like this ? " 

As he spoke he struck the sleeper heavily upon the head with 
the butt of his rifle, and Sim started up and grappled with him, 
just as a dozen Malays sprang out of the darkness, and made at 
the defence between them. 

The struggle between the two was but brief, for Gray threw 
Sim off, and brought his bayonet to bear against the Malays, 
forgetting in his excitement to load and fire, so that it was Sim's 
rifle that gave the alarm. 

For the next few minutes the two men fought side by side, 
their bayonets keeping the Malays back every time they strove 



to enter the place, and driving them off successfully till help 
came, and two or three volleys did the rest. 

" How was this? How did it happen that you did not see the 
enemy approaching sooner, Private Sim?" said Captain Smithers, 
sternly 

Sim trembled for his life, knowing as he did that over matters 
of discipline the captain was a stern man, and that he must expect 
no mercy for his fault if Gray spoke out, and told all he knew; 
so he exclaimed hastily, and with a malicious look at Gray, ¡ª 

" How could I, sir, when there are traitors in the camp ? " 

" Traitors ! What do you mean ? " 

" I mean a traitor, sir ! Private Gray there came up behind 
me, leaped upon me, and held his hand over my mouth to keep 
me still, while he whistled to the Malays to come in by the 
opening, there." 

" You lying¡ª" 

" Silence, Private Gray ! " cried Captain Smithers, and all that 
was evil in his nature came to the surface, as he felt that here 
was an opportunity for disgracing, if not putting his rival to 
death ; and a strange feeling of savage joy animated him for the 
moment. "Silence, Private Gray!" he cried. "Speak out, 
Private Sim. Do you mean to assert that this man served you 
a^ you say ? " 

" Look at me, sir ! " cried Sim, showing his disordered uni- 
form. " That was done in the struggle ] and I did not fire as 

soon as I could have wished." 

" Show me your rifle, Sim," said the captain, 

Sim held out his piece, while, choking with rage and astonish- 
ment, Gray stood speechless in their midst 

The piece was examined, and it had just been discharged. 

" Show me your piece, Gray," said Captain Smithers. 

Gray held it out, and it was quite clean. It was not loaded, 
and it had not lately been discharged. 

" I tried as hard as I could, captain ! " whined Sim ; " but he 
came upon me so sudden like, that I was mastered at once." 

" What were you doing there. Gray ? You were not on duty. 
Your place was in bed." 

" I could not sleep, sir," said Gray. " I doubted this man, 
and I came to see." 

"Why, you jumped right on me, sudden like, out of the 
darkness ! " said Sim. 

"Silence, Sim !" said the Captain. " Gray, this charge must 
be investigated. You are under arrest Sergeant, put this man 
in irons 1" 



* But, Captain¡ª" 

" Silence, sir ! You can make your defence when you are 
tried by court martial" 

" I hope, captain,*' whined Sim, " that it won't be my doing 
as he's punished. I'd a deal rather help a fellow than get him 
into trouble." 

" You are on duty, sir ! Attend to your post ! " cried Captain 
Smithers. 

He turned angrily then on Private Gray, who was so cruelly 
mortified, especially as, glancing upward, he saw the window was 
open, and Rachel Linton and her cousin there, that he could 
not or would not speak a word in his defence. He gave Sim a 
look that made that scoundrel shiver, and then said to himself, ¡ª 

" She will not believe that I am a traitor I " 

He glanced involuntarily upwards as this thought occurred to 
him, and the captain ground his teeth with rage as he saw the 
glance ; but feeling as he did that he had his rival beneath his 
heel, a glow of triumph ran through him. 

The next moment, though, all that was gentlemanly and true 
came to the surface, and he felt that Private Gray was not the 
man who could be guilty of such a crime. Sim must be the 
offending party, and Gray be too proud to speak. He could not 
iiron him, or doubt his honour ; he was too true a man ; and as 
Sergeant Lund unwillingly came forward with a file of men, the 
captain motioned him back. 

" This is no time for making prisoners," he said. " Sergeant, 
change the sentry here. Place two men on guard. Private 
Sim, go to the guard room : I may want to question you. 
Private Gray, this is an awful charge against you, and if you are 
guilty you will be shot." 

There was a faint sound as of some one's breath catching at 
the window above, but it was heard by Captain Smithers and 
Private Gray alone as they stood face to face. 

" I know it, captain I " said Gray, quietly. 

" We are in face of the enemy," continued Captain Smithers. 
" Take your rifle again, and help to defend the place. You had 
better die by the spear of a Malay. Go to the guard-room now ; 
and mind, if any words pass between you and Private Sim ¡ª " 

** Quick, sir, the alarm ! " cried Gray, pointing out beneath 
the stars. * * The enemy ! " 

" Fire, sentry ! " cried Captain Smithers ; and the report of a 
rifle rang out on the still night air, for the Malays were advanc- 
ing in force. 

Fresh shots were fired on all sides as the men turned out, and 




were at their various places in a very few moments, the wisdom 
of the captain's commands being manifest ; and as he saw 
Private Gray go down on one knee and begin firing, with careful 
aim, at the advancing enemy, ¡ª 

*' He's no traitor," he muttered; *'and I never doubted him 
at heart." 

He had no time for further thought, for the attack had become 
general, and the Malays seemed furious, striving hard to gain an 
entry, but always encountering one or two bayonets at every 
point, till, after half an hour's fierce struggle, they drew back, 
leaving a number of dead and wounded around the place. 

The defenders of the little fort drew breath at this, and as the 
firing ceased, the major's wife, with Rachel Linton and her 
cousin, came round, first with refreshments for the exhausted 
men, and, as soon as they were distributed, began to bandage 
those who were wounded. 

It was while they were busy over this task, that m the dark- 
ness Rachel Linton came upon a man leaning against the breast- 
work, gazing attentively out at the position of the enemy. 

" Are you wounded ? " she asked ; and at her words Private 
Gray started round and faced her. 

" Only slightly,'* he said, " in body ¡ª but deeply in spirit." 
" Let me bind your wound," said Rachel Linton, hoarsely, and 
her voice trembled as she spoke. 

" Which ? " he said bitterly, as they stood alone. 
" Let me bind your arm," she said quietly now, as she drew a 
long breath. 

" It is but a scratch," he said carelessly, " a spear thrust." 
Without another word Rachel Linton slit open the sleeve of 
the jacket he wore, and deftly bandaged the double wound, 
for the thrust had gone right through Gray's arm. Then rising, 
she stood before him for a moment or two. 

" You asked which wound would I bind up, Adam Gray," she 
said sadly. ** I have bound up one. If my words will help to 
bind up the other, let me tell you that I do not believe the foul 
charge made against you." 

The rifle fell against Gray's wounded arm as he caught the 
speaker's hand in his, and raised it to his lips. 

" You have done more," he said ; " you have healed it." 

For the next few moments he stood there as if holding the 

hand in his, though Rachel Linton had hurried away. Then he 

started, for he became aware that Tom Long had seen what 

hid taken place, and was now standing leaning on his sword. 

But he did not speak, he only turned away, leaving Gray 


watching, and thinking hopefully now of the charge he had 
to meet. 

" Smithers is a gentleman," he said to himself; " they cannot 
shoot me for what I have not done." 

Then he began to wonder how the steamer had sped, and how 
soon they would bring back their friends. This was the more 
important, as he felt sure that a few such determined efforts on 
the Malay's part, and the little garrison must succumb. 

" He is a brave young fellow, that Ali," he thought, " and has 
managed well." 

Then he stood gazing out over the dark ground in front, where 
here and there he could make out the dimly seen form of 
some unfortunate combatant, who had not been carried off by 
his friends. 

It was darker now than ever, and he was silently watching 
for danger, when a faint rustling noise caught his ear, and he 
brought his piece down to the present, for undoubtedly one of 
the bodies lying on the dark earth was in motion, and crawling 
slowly towards where he stood. 



CHAPTER LIV. 

THE END OF ALl's MISSION. 

Adam Gray's finger was on the trigger of his piece, but he did 
not fire, though he carefully covered the figure before him, and 
watched attentively to make sure that it was no hallucination. 
He had marked that figure before ; one that lay face downwards, 
apparently just as the man had fallen from a shot. And now the 
dimly seen arms had changed positions ¡ª there was no doubt of 
that ¡ª and the figure was crawling forward 

V/hat did it mean ? Either it was a poor wounded wretch, 
striving hard to get relief and help, or else it was a trick on the 
part of a treacherous Malay, who was trying to put in force a 
North American Indian's tactics, and creeping fomvard to stab 
a sentry. 

" And so gain an entrance into the fort/' thought Adam Gray. 
" Well, my poor wretch, you will not do it, unless both my rifle 
ball and bayonet shoald miss." 

Just then the figure stopped, and lay quite motionless ; and 
again Gray hesitated, feeling sure that he must have been 
deceived, as lie gazed now at the figure where it lay, some 
twenty yards away. 

There it was, perfectly motionless, and in that darkness Gray 
felt that he really could not be sure about it. After all, the 
figure might be lying where it had first lain. It was impossible 
to say. 

His doubts were dispelled the next moment, for the figure 
was once more in motion, and stopped short as the lock of the 
sentry's rifle clicked. 

" Don't shoot ! " said a voice in English ; " I am a friend." 

" If you move again, I fire ! " said Gray in a low, stem voice. 
? Who are you ? " 

*' Is that Private Gray ? " said the voice. 

" Mr Ali, is that you ? " cried Gray, leaning towards him. 

" Yes, it is I," said the figure, crawling rapidly towards him. 




" What are you doing with the enemy? " 

" Trying to make my way to you. They will not see now. 
Give me your hand, and I will climb up." 

Gray leaned out over the breastwork, gave his hand to the 
young man, and, with a little exercise of his muscular strength, 
half-drew, half-aided him to climb into the stronghold ¡ª ^just as 
Captain Smithers and Tom Long leaped upon them, seizing 
each his man, and holding his sword to his throat. 

" You doubly - dyed scoundrel ! " cried Captain Smithers. 
" Caught him in the act I Call the guard there ! " 

" Don't you know me. Long ? " said a voice that made Tom 
lower his sword point. 

*' Ali I " cried Captain Smithers ; " you here? '* 

" Yes, I am back," said the young man sadly. 

" Gray, my good fellow," cried Captain Smithers, " fate seems 
to have ordained that I should doubt you." 

** Fate is sometimes very cruel to us all, sir,*' said Gray, coldly, 
as the captain set him free, and turned to Ali. 

" You found them, then ? " 

" No," said Ali, sadly. 

" But the stockade ? " 

? What stockade ? " 

" Where youfound them. Thesteamer went off early in thenight." 

** The steamer went off? Where ? " 

" Don*t waste time, man, in puzzles," cried the captain, 
excitedly, as he felt that something was wrong. " You sent a 
messenger ? " 

*' I sent no messenger," said Ali, excitedly. 

" Yes, yes ; the man with the writing in a bamboo ? " 

" I sent no man,'* said Ali, sadly, " You have been cheated 
¡ª overreached by your enemies." 

" But did you not find them? " 

" No, I was hemmed in at every turn ; and at last, in despair 
I have crawled back here, hardly saving my life, your sentries 
are so keen." 

" This is dreadful," said Captain Smithers. " How we have 

been deluded!" 

He took a few steps to and fro, and then paused before Ali, 
gazing at him searchingly, 

" Sir," he said, " we are each of different nations, and your 

people are at war with mine. Why should I trust you ? why 

should I believe in your words ? How do I know that I am not 

talking to one who believes it to be a virtue to slay people 

of my creed ? " 



Ali looked at him wonderingly for a few moments before he 
spoke, slowly, ¡ª 

"Because you know that I am honest," he said; "and if 
I am not, you have your resource there. Kill me." 

Captain Smithers resumed his agitated walk to and fro. 

" This is dreadful I " he said, excitedly. ** Those poor fellows 
have been inveigled away like the hunting party, and perhaps 
by this time there is a second massacre.'* 

" I think you exaggerate,'* said Ali, quietly. " The hunting 
party have been led away by a ruse, and the steamer sent upon 
an errand by a clever trick. But Captain Horton and Major 
Sandars are not men to give up the lives of their following 
without a bitter struggle. And as for Lieutenant Johnson ¡ª " 

" And Mr Roberts," interposed Tom Long. 

" Yes, with Mr Roberts," said Ali, '* he is too strong in guns 
and men to be easily overcome, unless by ¡ª " 

" Treachery ? Yes," said the captain. ** And that is what I 
dread." 

" To such an extent," said Ali, with a quiet smile, " that you 
doubt your friends." 

" For the moment only," said Captain Smithers, holding out 
his hand, which the other frankly grasped ** You must remember 
my position, sir." 

" I do," said Ali. " Now give me a rifle and revolver ; we 
may be attacked at any moment." 

" We ?" said Tom Long holding out his hand. 

" Yes," said Ali, smiling ; " and if we get safely through this 
trouble you will have to try and make me more of an English- 
man than I am." 

Even while he was speaking the Malays renewed their attack 
with the greatest pertinacity, it being evident that their object 
was to capture the fort before the steamer could render help. 
They seemed to be roused to a pitch of mad fury by the resist- 
ance they encountered and their losses, attacking with such 
determination that it needed no words on Captain Smithers' 
part to warn his little garrison that they must fight to the death. 

With a civil ized-^nemy it would have been quite reasonable to 
have surrendered long ago, but with such a foe as Rajah Gantang, 
a pirate of the worst Malay type, such an act as surrender would 
have meant giving all up to a horrible death. 

Never was daylight more welcome than when it appeared to 
the defenders of that little stronghold, who, gaunt, haggard, and 
faint with exertion, saw the sky suddenly turn to orange and gold ; 
and then the sun rose over the widespread jungle, sending the 




wreathing night-mists floating amidst the feathery palms, and 
seeming to dissolve into thin air. 

The first order given by Captain Smithers was to have a sig- 
nal of distress run up to the top of the flagstaff; the next to try 
and strengthen the defences, which were sorely dilapidated. 
Some of the barricading planks and forms were torn down, others 
riddled with bullets. 

Through the rough straw mattresses spears were sticking in a 
dozen directions, and what had looked hopeless again and again 
during the night seemed doubly so by day. 

But Captain Smithers was not made of the stuff to give up. 
He had those under his charge whom he was ready to render his 
life to save ; and the spirit that animated his breast seemed to 
infuse itself in the spirits of the others. He was half mad with 
jealousy ; and angered almost beyond bearing at the thought 
that Rachel Linton should favour, as he was sure now that she 
did, a private soldier in preference to him. But he cast away 
all narrow selfishness, for he was obliged to confess that Gray 
was no common man, but evidently a gentleman by education if 
not by birth. 

Casting aside, then, all unworthy thoughts, he roused Tom 

Long from a short sleep that he had made him take. He said a 
few encouraging words to the men, and then went to join the 
ladies, who had anticipated his wishes, and were ready with plenty 
of refreshments for the jaded defenders of the fort. 

It is wonderful what efficacy there is in a cup of hot coffee 
and a big biscuit. Men who, ten minutes before, had stood rifle 
in hand, dejected and utterly worn out, lost their haggard looks 

and seemed to pull themselves together after partaking of the 
cup of comfort that the ladies brought round. 

Rifles were wiped out, belts tightened ; and with brightening 
eyes the men seemed ready to give a good account of the enemy 
when they closed in for their next attack. 

" I have bad news for you, Captain Smithers,'' said Rachel 
Linton to him, quietly, as she took the cup she had given him 
from his hands. 

" I don't think you can give me worse news than I already 
know," he said, sadly. 

" Yes, but I can," she said, with her brows knitting with pain 
for his suffering. " The heat of the day will soon be upon us, 
and we have no raoxQ water." 

These words roused the captain to a less selfish view of things, 
and he stood for a moment or two thinking. It was indeed a 
tantalizing position, for, glittering and sparkling in the sun, there 





before them flowed the bright river, no drop of whose waters 
could be reached on account of the thronging enemy. 

" I will see to it at once," he said, quietly ; and as Miss Lin- 
ton left him, Tom Long came up. 

" We must have a well dug at once," he said " Take charge 
here, Long, while I pick out a place." 

Ensign Long assumed the command, but now without any oi 
his old consequential airs. Adversity was taming him down, 
and to his surprise he found himself talking in a very different 
tone to his men, who yielded a readier obedience than of old. 

Captain Smithers was not long in selecting a place for the 
well, and in a very few minutes a squad of men were at work, 
some digging, others bearing off the earth in baskets to pile up 
in front of weak places and add to their strength. 

It was a hard call upon the men, that digging ; but even while 
they worked the demand for water arose, and they slaved at their 
task, knowing the tortures that waited them should they not 
succeed 

Every man worked in turn, except those badly wounded, 
though even some of those carried away the baskets of earth. 

Among others. Private Gray was ready to aid in this way, after 
vainly trying to handle a spade, a task rendered impossible by his 
wound. He was hard at work over his work, carrying basketful 
after basketful with one hand, when Captain Smithers came up, 
saw how he was striving, and stood looking on for a few moments. 

"We shall have to put off your court martial yet. Gray," he 
said grimly. ** Give me that basket. Sit down awhile." 

Gray was ready to resist, but his officer's words were law, and 
sitting down to rest, and wipe the streaming perspiration from his 
face, he watched his captain slave away at the toil with the others, 
for in those perilous times show and uniforms were forgotten. 

It proved to be a harder task than had been anticipated. 
Captain Smithers had expected to find the subsoil of the island 
all soft alluvial earth, in which, from the neighbourhood of the 
river, there would be an abundance of water. It had never 
occurred to him that if the island had been of soft earth it would 
long before have been washed away. It was found to be rock 
at a short distance down, composed of a soft limestone, through 
which they had to chip their well. 

A dozen times over alarms of attack ¡ª some real, some false ¡ª 
were given, when spade, pick, and basket had to be laid on one 
side, and rifles seized. The attack repelled, the fight for water 
was renewed ; and to the intense delight of all, about ten feet 
down the pure life-giving element came gushing in a clear 
current from the rock. 





Meanwhile Ali's eyes, which were more experienced in the 
ways of the enemy than those of his companions, read plainly 
enough that far from being damped by their ill-success they were 
preparing for a more general assault, and he confided his opinions 
to Tom Long. 

" I can't see any difference," said Tom Long, after a careful in- 
spection through his glass. " They looked just like that every time 
they came on, and ¡ª ah ! there are some more of them, though." 

" More," echoed Ali, " They are doubled in number. Look, 
too, at the way in which they are making bundles of reeds and 
canes." 

"Well, let them," said Tom Long ; " our rifle bullets will go 
through those fast enough. If I were Smithers, I'd give them a 
good searching fire now, and let them know that our rifles make 
fine practice at a thousand yards' distance. Those fellows are 
not six hundred." 

" Better wait till every shot is more likely to tell," replied Ali. 
** The bullets would of course go through those bundles of cane ; 
but do you not see what they mean ?" 

" No," said Tom Long, quietly, " unless they mean to burn us 
out." 

" That is what they do mean," replied Ali. " And look ! 
Quick ! give the alarm I They are coming on at once I " 

" Let them," said Tom Long, phlegmatically. ** They won't 
alarm us. Nice people your fellow-countrymen, Ali !" 

" Fellow countrymen !" said the young Malay, scornfully. 
** My fellow-countrymen are gentlemen ! These are the scourings 
of the country, with half the scoundrels from Borneo, Java, and 
Sumatra ¡ª men who have lived all their lives upon piracy and 
murder." 

"Well, whatever they are," said Tom Long, coolly, "they are 
coming on, so I may as well let the lads know. All right, though ; 
every one is on the alert, and I daresay we can give a good 
account of them before they get back. Are you sure that these 
are all a bad lot ?" 

" Sure ?" cried Ali. " They are the scum of the east." 

"Then we'll skim them a little more," said Tom Long. 
" Hi ! sergeant, let me have a rifle and some cartridges ; I think 
I should like to pot a few cut-throat pirates myself." 

Sergeant Lund handed him the required rifle, Captain 
Smithers coming up at the moment, and as he swept the sur- 
roundings of the little fort with his glass his countenance changed 
a little, for grave as had been their position before, he felt now 
that unless help quickly came it was absolutely hopeless. 



CHAPTER LV. 



HOW THE HUNTING-PARTY FARED. 

There was a thick mist hanging over the forest when the bugle 
rang out the reveilli, and, some eagerly, some thinking rest the 
better thing, all the hunting-party began to gather outside their 
tents, where the best apologies for tubs and baths were provided 
for the officers. 

No sooner, however, did the Malays see this than they laugh- 
ingly led the way to a little river, evidently a tributary of the 
Parang, and setting the example plunged into its deep, clear, cool 
waters, showing themselves to be adepts at swimming, and 
laughing to scorn the idea of there being any crocodiles there. 

The water was deliciously cool, and one and all the officers 
gladly availed themselves of the jungle bath, emerging fresh, 
and their nerves toned up ready for any work that was to fall to 
their lot that day. 

By the time they returned to the camp an al fresco breakfast 
was ready, half English half Malay. There were tea and coffee, 
potted meats and sardines, and side by side with them, 
delicious Malay curries, made with fresh cocoa-nut, sambals of 
the most piquant nature, and fresh fish and blacbang ¡ª that 
favourite preparation of putrid shrimps. Fruits were in abund- 
ance ¡ª plaintains of various kinds, mangosteens, lychees, and 
durians smelling strong enough to drive away a dozen Tom 
Longs, had they been there. In short, the sultan had given 
orders that his cooks should do their best ; similar instructions 
had been given by Captain Horton and Major Sandars ; and the 
result was a breakfast fit for a prince ¡ª who could put up with 
a picnic and a campstool, beneath an umbrageous tree. 

" Whatever you gentlemen do," said Doctor Bolter, " pray 
restrain your appetites. You see," he said, taking his seat cross- 
legged, like the Malays, in front of a dish of blachang, and ils 
neighbour a delicious chicken curry, " you will to-day be exposed 
a good deal to the heat of the sun j you will exert yourselves, no 




doubt ; and therefore it is advisable that you should be very 
moderate in what you eat and drink. Thanks, yes, major, I will 
take a glass of claret before my coffee. What a thing it is that 
we can get no milk." 

So saying, the doctor set to work *' feeding ferociously," so 
Captain Horton said, with a laugh, and partaking of everything 
that took his fancy, finishing off with a cigarette. 

The sultan smiled his satisfaction as he sat at the head of the 
table, eating little himself, but giving instructions from time 
to time to his slaves that they should hand fruit and other 
delicacies to the guests that were near him. 

The various officers followed the doctor's example, telling one 
another that they could not be far wrong if they imitated their 
medical guide. The only one who did not seem to e^joy 
his meal was Mr Linton, who felt worried, he hardly knew 
why, about their position. 

Now that he was away from the residency, an undefined 
sense of trouble had come upon him, and he could not help 
feeling how helpless they must be if the Malays turned against 
them. Certainly they were all well-armed, and could make a 
brave fight, perhaps win their way back ; but if they did, he felt 
sure that something would have gone wrong at the island. 

The preparations for the fresh start chased away his fore- 
bodings, and the packing having been rapidly performed, soldier, 
sailor, and Malay were soon in motion, the long train winding 
its way through the dense jungle, with the rattan panniers and 
howdahs of the elephants brushing the lush verdure on either side. 

The morning was deliciously cool, and as they went on and 
on through the forest shades, where at every turn something 
bright and beautiful met their gaze, the whole party were in 
the highest spirits ; and the discipline only being kept tight as to 
the order in which they marched, the men laughed and talked, 
sang and smoked, and seemed to be thoroughly enjoying them- 
selves. 

And certainly it would have moved the spirit of the most 

cankered denizen of a city to see the beauty of the parasites 
that clustered and hung from tree to tree. The orchids were of 
the most brilliant colours ; and now and then they passed a lake 
or pool in the depths of the jungle which would be covered in 
places with the flower of the lotus, while in every sunny opening 
the great clusters of nepenthes ¡ª the pitcher plant ¡ª brightened 

the scene. 

These latter delighted the Jacks amazingly, and not being 
allowed to break their ranks, they sent the Malays near them to 





pick anything that took their fancy. These " monkey cups," as 
they called them, were constantly picked ostensibly for the pur- 
pose of supplying the sailors with a drink, for each contained 
more or less water ; but it was never drunk, for in each there were 
generally the remains of some unfortunate flies, who had gone 
down into the treacherous vegetable cavern, and being unable 
to clamber out had miserably perished. 

During the heat of the day there was a halt once more, the 
Malays staring at the sailors and soldiers sitting about under 
the trees for a quiet smoke and watching the elephants, which, 
being relieved of their pads and howdahs, walked straight into a 
great pool near to which they were halted, and then cooled 
themselves by drawing their trunks full of water and squirting it 
all over their sides. 

" I'm blest," said one of the Jacks, *' if they ain't the rummest 
beggars I ever see. Just look at that one, Bill. Lor* if he ain't 
just like a bit o' annymated hingy rubber." 

" Ah ! " said his mate, " you might fit a pair o' blacksmith's 
bellows on to the muzzle o' that trunk of his, and then blow him 
out into a balloon." 

" When are we going to begin to hunt tigers ? " said another. 
" Oh, we ain't going to hunt them at all, only keep *em from 
coming by us, and driving 'em up to where the orficers are." 

" I say," said another sailor, " this here's all very well, but 
suppose some time or another, when these Malay chaps have got 
us out into the middle of these woods, they turn upon us, and 
whip out their krises ¡ª what then ? " 

" What then ? " said a soldier, who heard him ; " why then we 
should have to go through the bayonet exercise in real earnest ; 
but it won't come to that." 

Two more days were spent in the journey, and then, upon his 
guests beginning to manifest some impatience, the sultan 
announced that they were now on the borders of the tiger 
country ; and that afternoon there were preparations for a beat 
when a couple of tigers were seen, but they managed to escape. 

The"" sultan smilingly told his guests that at the end of another 
march the game would be more plentiful ; and once more there 
was a steady tramp along one of the narrow jungle paths, into 
a country wilder than ever ¡ª for they were away from the rivers 
now, and no traces of cultivation had been seen. 

There was no dissatisfaction, though, for if the officers shot 
no tigers they found plenty of jungle fowl and snipe, upon which 
they tried their powers with the gun, and made goodly bags of 
delicious little birds to add to the daily bill of fare. 




Another day, and still another, in which the expedition 
penetrated farther and farther into the forest wild. The officers 
were delighted, and Doctor Bolter in raptures. He had 
obtained specimens of the atlas moth, a large flap-winged 
insect, as large across as a moderate dish -, he had shot sun- 
birds, azure kingfishers, gapers, chatterers, parroquets ; and his 
last achievement had been to kill a boa-constrictor twenty-four 
feet long. 

It was no dangerous monster, but a great sluggish brute, that 
had hissed at him viciously and then tried to escape. But the 
doctor had for attendant a very plucky little Malay, appointed 
by the sultan, and this man was delighted with his task, following 
the doctor anywhere. Upon this occasion he had come upon 
the serpent lying coiled up, evidently sleeping oflf a repast of a 
heavy kind. 

The boy shouted to the doctor, who was trying to stalk a 
lizard in an open place ; and this roused the serpent, which 
began to uncoil, one fold gliding over the other, while its head 
was raised and its curious eyes sparkled in the sun. 

The boy waited his opportunity, and then darting in cleverly 
avoided the reptile's teeth, and caught it by the tail, dragging the 
creature out nearly straight as he called to his master to fire. 

The serpent was apparently puzzled by this proceeding, and 
threw itself round a tree, hissing furiously as it menaced its 
assailant Then sending a wave along the free part of its body 
to the tail, the Malay was driven flying on to his back amidst 
the canes. 

The retreat of the reptile was cut off, though, for this inter- 
ruption gave the doctor time to come up with his little double 
fowling-piece, from which a quick shot sent the menacing, 
quivering head down upon the earth; and then going up, a 
second shot placed the writhing monster hors de combat. 

There was no little mirth in the camp as, faint and perspiring 
profusely, the doctor and his Malay boy came in, slowly drag- 
ging the long quivering body of the serpent, which the former 
at once set to work to skin before it should become offensive. 
Then the skin was laid raw side upwards, and dressed over 
with arsenical soap, a dose of which the Malay boy nearly suc- 
ceeded in swallowing, being attracted by its pleasant aromatic 
odour. 

*' Laugh away," said the doctor, "but I mean to have that 
skin set up and sent to the British Museum, presented by Doctor 
Bolter," he said importantly. 

" Well," said Captain Horton, " for my part I would rather 



encounter a fierce Malay than one of these writhing creatures. 
Take care of yourself, doctor, or you'll be constricted." 

" Yes/' said Major Sandars, entering into the joke, " I'll give 
orders that every swollen serpent is to be bayonetted and opened 
if the doctor is missing." 

" Laugh away," said the doctor; *' I don't mind." 

" That's rig " t," said Captain Horton ; " but for goodness* sake, 
man, wash your hands well before you come to dinner." 

**A11 right," said the doctor; and that evening, after dinner, 
he took the Malay boy into his confidence. 

" Look here," he said, " I want to shoot an Argus pheasant. 
There must be some about here." 

"Argus pheasant?" said the Malay boy, staring, and then 
shaking his head. 

'* Yes, I heard one last night" 

Still the boy shook his head. He had never heard of such a 
bird. 

*' Oh, yes, you know what I mean,*' said the doctor ; " they 
keep in the shelter of the jungle, and are very rarely shot ; but 
I must have one." 

The boy shook his head. 

" Don't I tell you I heard one last night, after we had camped 
down? It calls out Coo-aiJ^ 

*'No, no ! no, no ! " cried the boy ; Coo-ow, Coo-ow!^ 

*' YeSj that's it," cried the doctor. " You know the bird. 

" Yes, know the big spot bird ; all eyes," said the boy. ''Sees 
all over himself, like a peacock. Hunter no shoot him, see 
too much far." 

" But I must shoot one," said the doctor. 

"Yes, you shoot one," said the boy. " I take you to-night." 

The doctor rubbed his hands and was delighted ; and after the 
dinner, when the officers and chiefs were sitting smoking and 
sipping their coffee by the light of the stars, he rose and took his 
gun, for the Malay boy was waiting. 

" Off again, doctor?" cried the major. 

" Yes," said the little man, importantly. " I am going, sir, to 
add to my collection a specimen of the celebrated Argus pheasant 
¡ª Phasianus Giganteus,^^ 

" No, no, doctor ; no Latin names after dinner," cried several 
voices. 

" As you please, gentlemen," he said, 

" The sultan says, shall he send a score of his men to protect 
you ? " cried Captain Horton. 

" For goodness' sake no 1 " cried the doctor in dismay. " My 


dear sir, this bird is only to be shot by approaching it most 
cautiously at night, or by laying patiently near its haunts." 

" Laying what, doctor ¡ª eggs ? " said a young officer." 

"No, sir; a stick about the back of impertinent puppies," 
cried the doctor, angrily, " I said lying ¡ª lying in wait near 
the bird's haunts." 

" Oh, I beg your pardon," said the young officer ; and the 
doctor went off in dudgeon. 

" I say, Thompson," said the major, " don*t you be poorly, 
whatever you do, until the doctor has got over it, or he'll give 
you such a dose." 

"I'll take care, sir,'' said the young man; and they went on 
chatting about other things. 



CHAPTER LVI. 

DOCTOR bolter's BIRD. 

Meanwhile the doctor followed his Malay boy ¡ª as he was 
called, though he was really a man ¡ª through a narrow path right 
away from the camp and into the jungle. 

The doctor was ruffle<i exceedingly at his slip of grammar, and 
looked very much annoyed ; but the thought of being able to 
secure a specimen of the much-prized Argus pheasant chased 
away the other trouble, and he walked on closely behind his guide. 

" How far have we to go, my lad ? '' he said. 

" Walk two hours," said the Malay, " then sit down and listen. 
No speak a word till Coo-ow come. Then make gun speak and 
kill him 1 " 

" To be sure ! " said the doctor, nodding his head ; and then 
almost in silence he followed his guide, often feeling disposed to 
try and shoot one or other of the nocturnal birds that flitted 
silently by, or one of the great fruit bats that, longer in their 

spread of wings than rooks, flew in flocks on their way to devas- 
tate some orchard far away. 

Quite two hours had elapsed, during which the Malay, ap- 
parently quite at home, led his scientific companion right away 
through the gloom of the wilderness. 

At last he enjoined silence, saying that they were now ap- 
proaching the haunts of the wondrous bird ; and consequently 
the doctor crept on behind him without so much as crushing a 
twig. 

They had reached an opening in the forest by the side of what 
was evidently a mountain of considerable height, and the doctor 
smiled as he recalled the fact that the Argus pheasant was re- 
puted to haunt such places ; when to his intense delight there 
suddenly rang out from the distance on the silent night air a 
peculiar cry that resembled the name given to the bird ¡ª Coo-ow* 
For the moment it seemed to the doctor as if some Australian 
savage was uttering his well known Coo-ay^ or as if this was the 





Malays' form of the cry. But he knew well enough what it was, 
and following his guide with the greatest caution they crept on 
towards the place from which the sound had seemed to come. 

It was weird work in that wild solitude far on towards mid- 
night, but the doctor was too keen a naturalist to think of any- 
thing but the specimen of which he was in search. He knew 
that the native hunters, out night after night, could not shoot 
more than one of these birds in a year, and it would be quite a 
triumph if he could add such a magnificent thing to his collection. 

CoO'OW I rang out the strange cry, and it seemed quite near. 
Then again Coo-ow, and this time it appeared to be a long way 
off. 

This was tantalizing, but he concluded directly after that the 
second cry might be that of another bird answering the first. 

They were now in amongst a number of low bushes, which 
gave them cover, while it made the surrounding country less 
black than when they were in the jungle path. There they could 
only grope their way with outstretched hands ; here they could 
have gone on at a respectable foot pace without danger of run- 
ning against some impediment in the path. 

The doctor cocked both barrels of his gun, after opening the 
breech and making sure that the cartridges were in their place, 
and, in momentary expectation of getting a shot, he kept close 
behind the Malay. 

CoO'OW I came the cry again, this time a little to the left ; and 
the Malay stretched out a hand behind him to grasp that of the 
doctor as he went cautiously on. 

CoO'OW I again, but a little farther off, and with his nerves 
throbbing with excitement, the doctor kept up the chase, now 
seeming close to the bird, then being left behind, but never once 
getting within shot 

It was very provoking, but the guide was in earnest, and the 
doctor would have gone through ten times the trouble to achieve 
his end. 

And so they stole on through the thick brushwood, with the 
bird repeating its cry so near from time to time as to make them 
feel that they must get a shot directly ; but still the hope was 
deferred. 

A lighter patch in front showed that the forest was a little more 
open, and the Malay loosed the doctor's hand for a moment to 
clamber over a block of stone ¡ª when there was a rushing noise, 
what seemed to be a heavy blow, a hoarse cry, and then silence, 
broken directly after by a low deep growling just in front of 
where Doctor Bolter stood ¡ª petrified and unable to move. 




He was too much taken aback by the suddenness of the inci- 
dent to comprehend for a time what had taken place ; but directly 
after, with his hands wet with excitement, and his heart seeming 
to stand still, he realized that some great animal had been stalk- 
ing them, as they had been stalking the Argus pheasant, and, 
waiting for its opportunity, had sprung upon and seized the 
Malay. 

There was the low snarling growl not two yards from where 
he stood, just the noise upon a larger scale that a cat would 
make when crouching down over the rat that it had seized ; and 
the doctor felt that there could be only one creature in the jungle 
that would seize its prey in such a manner ¡ª the tiger. 

In spite of his bravery and the strength of nerve that had 
often made him face death without a tremor, Dr Bolter felt a 
cold shiver pass through him as he realized how near he was 
to a terrible end. The tiger might have seized him instead of 
the Malay ¡ª in fact, might spring upon him at any moment ; 
and as he felt this, he brought the barrels of his gun to bear 
on the dark spot where the tiger lay crouching upon its victim, 
and with his fingers on both triggers stood ready to fire at 
the first movement of the beast. 

That first movement, he knew, might be to spring upon him 
and strike him down ; and nature bade him flee at once for 
his life ¡ª bade him drop his gun, run to the first tree, and 
climb into its branches ¡ª escape as a timid beast, a monkey, 
might have done. 

Education, on the contrary, bade him stay ¡ª told him that it 
would be the act of a coward and a cur to run off and leave the 
poor fellow lying there to his fate, the horrible fate of being torn 
and half devoured by the tiger ¡ª bade him be a man, and do 
something, even at the risk of his own life, to save the Malay who 
had been stricken down in his service \ and as these thoughts 
came to Doctor Bolter his eyes dilated in the darkness, and he 
strove to make out the positions in which tiger and man were 
lying. 

It was some time before he could make this out, and then it 
seemed to him that the tiger had struck the Malay down upon 
his face, and was lying upon him, with his teeth fixed in his 
shoulder. 

Just then the unfortunate man uttered a loud cry, when the 
tiger gave an angry snarl, and Doctor Bolter was able to assure 
himself of their relative positions. In fact there was the side 
of the tiger's head not six feet from him, and dare he fire it 
was almost impossible to miss. 




But the gun was loaded with small shot, and even at so 
close a range he might injure the unfortunate Malay, if he 
were not beyond the point when a fresh blow would do him harm. 

Doctor Bolter stood unable to move. He did not feel very 
much alarmed now, the danger was too near, but he could not 
for the moment act. 

At last, though, his nerves seemed to become more set, and 
setting his teeth he held his piece ready, and with one motion 
advanced his left foot and went down on his right knee, at the 
same time raising his gun to his shoulder. 

It was done in a moment ¡ª the tiger raising its head from the 
victim with a savage roar* when with the mouth of the piece not 
eighteen inches from the creature's head, Doctor Bolter drew the 
triggers, almost together. 

There was a brilliant flash in the darkness, which showed him 
the glistening teeth of the savage beast and its glaring eyes ¡ª a 
double report ¡ª and with a furious roar the monster sprang 
forward, crashing into some bushes, and then all was stilL 

Quick as lightning the doctor threw open the breech of his 
piece, and inserted this time a couple of ball-cartridges, closed the 
gun, and stood ready for the monster's attack, knowing though 
that it must be sorely wounded, for he had aimed straight at its 
eye, and the small shot would, at that distance, have the effect of 
a bullet. 

A minute ¡ª two minutes, that seemed like hours, did the 
doctor stand there, expecting to hear some movement on the 
tiger's part, either for attack or retreat ; but it did not stir, and 
he dared not fire again at random. 

Just then there was a low groan, and a faint movement at his 
feet. 

The doctor's piece swung round involuntarily, but directly 
after he recalled that it must be the Malay, and with dry throat 
and lips he spoke to him. 

" Are you much hurt ? " 

There was a few moments' pause, and then the Malay spoke. 

" My shoulder is gnawed ; I can't use my arm." 

"Can you crawl behind me?" said the doctor, hoarsely. 

For reply the Malay rose to his feet, and staggering slightly, 
he made his way behind where the doctor stood 

" I dare not move," said Doctor Bolter. " The beast may 
spring upon us again." 

"No," said the Malay, whose voice sounded stronger; "he 
is dead. Have you a light ? " 

The doctor held his gun with one hand and pulled out his 





match-box with the other, when, in spite of his wounds, the 
Malay knelt down, drew a piece of dammar from the fold of his 
sarong, stuck it in a cleft stick, and then striking a match he 
fired the dry grass and lit the dammar, which made an excellent 
torch. 

With this advanced he took a couple of strides forward, and 
holding the light down, there lay the tiger on its side, the 
white under fur showing plainly, the doctor seeing that the 
creature's neck and les^s were stretched out, and that it was 
indeed dead. 

"Thank heaven!" he muttered, fervently; and standing his 
gun against a tree he set to work piling up dead wood and 
dry canes to make a fire, when "by its light and that of the 
dammar torch the doctor proceeded to roughly dress the Malay's 
wounds. 

The tiger had seized him by the muscles of his left shoulder 
and clawed the upper part of his arm ¡ª terrible wounds enough, 
but not likely to prove fatal j and when the doctor had done all 
he could to make the poor fellow comfortable, the Malay lay 
down, gazing up at him as he trickled a little brandy from his 
flask between the poor fellow's lips. 

"You are good," he said at last, '*You saved my life. Now 
I shall save yours.'' 

" Save mine ? " said the doctor. ** Well, I hope we shall have 
no more tigers to face," 

"No," said the man, "not from tigers, but from men. You 
did not eat blachang to-night ? " 

" No," said the doctor. " Why ? " 

"Sultan Hamet had toohah put in it to-night : same as to make 
fish sleep." 

"What? I don't understand you!" cried the doctor 
citedly. 

"Sultan Hamet means to have all the English krissed to-night 
while they sleep," said the Malay ; " but you have saved my life : 
J shall save yours." 



CHAPTER LVII. 



HOW DOCTOR BOLTER GOT IN A MESS. 

Doctor Bolter felt as if the place was swimming round him, 
and the fire-light seemed to dance as he heard these words. 
Then, as he recovered himself somewhat, he gazed full in the 
Malay's eyes, to see that the man was looking up at him in the 
calmest and most unruffled way. 

" Are you mad ? " exclaimed the doctor. 

" No," said the Malay. " I say what is right Sultan Hamet 
joins with Rajah Gantang to kill off all the English ¡ª the sultan 
here ; the rajah there, with his prahus." 

" It is impossible !" cried the doctor. " You are deceiving me." 

" No, no, I tell the truth," said the man ; " but you shall not 
be hurt. Let them kris me first. You shall live.'' 

*' Let us get back," cried the doctor, seizing his gun; and the 
tiger with the beautiful skin, which he had meant to have for a 
specimen, was forgotten, 

" No, no," said the man, " you must stay in the jungle. The 
tigers are better than Hamet." 

** Can you walk ? " said the doctor, quietly. 

The man got up for answer. 

** Can you find your way back ? '' said the doctor. 

" Yes," said the other, with a scornful look. " I could find the 
way with my eyes blinded." 

" Then start at once. Here, take some more of this," 

He gave the injured man another draught from his flask, for 
the poor fellow seemed terribly faint 

The few drops of brandy gave him new life, and he displayed 
it by throwing himself on his knees before Doctor Bolter, and 
clasping one of his legs with his uninjured arm. 

" Don't go back, master," he cried piteously. " You have 
been so good to me that I could not bear to see you krissed 
Stay away, and I will keep you safely. My life is yours, for you 
saved it; and I am your slave." 




" My good fellow," said the doctor, sadly, as he laid his hand 
upon the Malay's shoulder, " you do not understand Englishmen." 

*' Yes, yes, I do," cried the Malay. " I like ¡ª I love English- 
men, I was servant to the yoimg chief Aii before the sultan had 
him krissed." 

" Young Ali krissed ? " cried the doctor, 

" Yes, he was too much friends with the Englishmen, and made 
the sultan jealous." 

" And the wretch had that brave, noble young fellow killed ? " 

" Yes," said the Malay, sadly. ' ' His father, the Tumongong, 
prayed upon his knees that the brave bo/s life might be spared, 
and offered to send him out of the country. But the sultan 
laughed, and said that the young chief would come back again 
with a swarm of English soldiers, and seize the jewels, and put 
him to death, and make himself sultan. Then the Tumongong 
swore an oath that Ali should never come back, and went down 
on his face before Sultan Hamet ; but the sultan drew his kris 
and pricked him with it in the shoulder, and told him that he 
should die if he named his son again." 

" The villain ! That brave, noble young fellow, too ! " said 
the doctor, excitedly. 

" Yes j he was so brave and handsome," cried the Malay, 
" I loved him, but I was obliged to hide it all, for if I had spoken 
one word they would have krissed me, and thrown me into the 
river. So I had to be silent ; but when they wanted some one 
to go with you I offered, and they said * Yes ' because I could 
speak English, and the sultan gave me my orders." 

" And what were they ? " said the doctor, sharply. 

"To wait till to-night, and then lead you out ino the jungle if 
you did not want to go, and stab you with my kris." 

** And you did not do it? *' 

The Malay smiled, and drew his kris in its sheath from out oi 
the folds of his sarong, handing it to the doctor. 

** I am not a murderer,'^ he said. 

" But suppose the sultan had asked you why you did not kill 
me," said the doctor, "what then?" 

" I should have told him a lie. He is a liar, and full of deceit. 
We do not think it wrong to deal with such a man in the coins 
he gives. I should have said you kept me back with your gun." 

" Take your kris, my lad," said the doctor, quietly. " I trust 
you. Now lead me back to the camp." 

" No, no," cried the Malay. " I dare not. I cannot take you 
back to death." 

'* I ¡ª must ¡ª go,*' said the doctor, sternly ; and the Malay made 
a deprecating gesture, indicative of his obedience. 




?* My people may have proved too strong for Sultan Hamct 
and his treacherous gang.'* 

" Yes ¡ª yes ¡ª they may," cried the Malay, eagerly. 

" They may have given him such a lesson as he will never forget." 

" I hope they will make him forget for ever," said the Malay 
in a sombre tone. " He is not fit to live. My kris is thirsty to 
drink his blood." 

" Forward, then ! " cried the doctor, " and tell me when you 
feel sick. Find water if you can, first thing. Does your wound 
pain you ? " 

"It feels as if the tiger kept biting me," was the reply; "but 
I do not mind Shall we go back ? " 

" Yes ] and at once," cried the doctor, and following his com- 
panion, they rapidly retraced their steps through the dark jungle, 
the guide, as if by instinct, making his way onward without a 
moment's hesitation, seeming to take short cuts whenever the 
forest was sufficiently open to let them pass. 

As he stumbled on over the creeper- covered ground, the doc- 
tor had many a narrow escape from falling, and he could not 
help envying the ease with which his guide passed the various 
obstacles around them. The chief thought that occupied the 
doctor's mind, though, was that which related to the drugging 
of the party's food that evening. 

The Malay had mentioned what drug was to be used, namely 
toohahy a vegetable production ¡ª in fact the root of a plant which 
the doctor knew that the Malays used to throw in the pools ot 
the rivers and streams, with the effect that the fish were help- 
lessly intoxicated, and swam or floated on the surface of the 
water. This plant he had several times tried to obtain and 
examine, while he made experiments upon its power ; but so far 
he had been unsuccessful. Would it have the same effect upon 
the human organisation that it had upon a fish ? That was the 
question he had to solve in his mind ; but no matter how he 
turned the subject over, he could extract not the smallest grain 
of comfort. 

The only hope he could derive from his thoughts was that 
the English discipline, with its regular setting of sentries and 
watchfulness, might be sufficient to defeat the enemy's machina- 
tions, and a sufficiency of the officers and men be unaffected by 
the poison to make a brave stand until the rest had recovered. 

That might happen ; and slightly roused in spirit by this hope, 
he kept steadily on. One thing was fixed in his own mind, and 
that was that it was his duty to get back to his party, either to 
fight with them, to help the wounded, or to share their fate. 




" Not that I want to die," muttered the doctor. " There*s 
that collection of butterflies unpinned ; no one but me could set 
up all those birds, or understand the numbering; and then 
there's that boa-constrictor wants dressing over ; and worse than 
all, I've killed my first tiger, and have not saved its skin." 

" Humph I " he exclaimed directly after, " it seems as if I am 
to have a hard job to save my own skin/* 

Just then the Malay reeled, and caught at a tree they were 
passing, when the doctor had only just time to catch him and 
save him from a hea\y fall. 

Laying his gun aside, he eased the poor fellow down upon the 
tangled grass, trickling a few more drops from his flask between 
his lips, and then giving the flask a bit of a shake to hear how 
much there was left 

** Better now," said the Malay, trying to rise. " The trees run 
round." 

** Yes, of coarse they do to you," said the doctor. " Lie still 
for a while, my good fellow. Is there any water near here ? " 

" Little way on," said the Malay, pointing. " Listen ! " 

The doctor bent his head, and plainly enough heard a low 
gurgling noise. Following the direction in which the sound 
seemed to be, he came upon a little stream, and filled, by holding 
on with one hand to a little palm and hanging down as low as 
he could, the tin canteen slung from his shoulder. From this he 
drank first with avidity, then refilling it he prepared to start back, 

" And I always preach to the fellows about not drinking un- 
filtered water," he muttered. " I wonder how many wild water 
beasts I've swallowed down. Well, it can't be helped ] and it was 
very refreshing. Let me see ! Bah ! How can I when it's as 
dark as pitch ! Which way did I come?" 

He stood thinking for a few moments, and then started off, 
cautiously trying to retrace his steps ; but before he had gone 

twenty yards he felt sure that he was wrong, and turning back 

tried another way. Here again at the end of a minute he felt 
that he was not going right, and with an ejaculation of impatience 
he made his way back to where the stream rippled and gurgled 
along amidst the reeds, canes, and beneath the overhanging 
branches. 

It was not the spot where he had filled the canteen, but he 
knew that he must be near it ; and he started agam, but only to 
have to get back once more to the stream, where there was a 
rush, a scuffling noise and a loud splashing, that made him start 
back with a shudder running up his spine, for he knew by the 
sound that it must be a crocodile. 



Worst of all he was unarmed, having left his gun beside the 
fainting Malay, 

All he could do was to back as quietly as he could into the 
jungle, with canes and interlacing growths hindering him at every 
step ; thorns tore and clung to his clothes, and he felt that if 
any creature gave chase to him it must overtake him directly. 
His only chance of safety then was in inaction ; and fretting with 
annoyance he crouched there, listening to the shudder- engen- 
dering crawling noise made by evidently several loathsome 
reptiles about the bank of the stream. 

After a while this ceased, and he made another attempt to get 
back to the Malay, going on and on through the darkness, and 
from time to time shouting to him. He knew that he must be 
crossing and recrossing his track, and blamed himself angrily 
for not being more careful. His shouts produced no response, 
and the matches he lit failed to give him the aid he had hoped ; 
and at last, utterly exhausted, he sank down amidst the dense 
undergrowth to wait for daylight, with the result that nature 
would bear no more, and in spite of the help he knew his com- 
panion needed, the danger of his companions, and the perils by 
which he was surrounded from wild beasts, his head sank lower 
and lower upon his breast, and he slept. 

Not willingly, for he kept starting back into wakefulness, and 
walked to and fro; but all in vain, sleep gradually mastered him; 
and he sank lower and lower, falling into a deep slumber, and, 
as he afterwards said, when talking about the adventure, " If I 
had been in front of a cannon, and knew that it was to be fired, 
I could only have said ¡ª Just wait till I am fast asleep, and then 
do what you please." 

The sun was up when he started into full wakefulness, and his 
clothes were drenched with dew. 

" If I don't have a taste of jungle fever after this, it's strange 
to me," he said, hastily swallowing a little white powder from a 
tiny bottle. " A stitch in time saves nine, and blessed is the 
salt quinine.'' 

"Humph! that*s rhyme," he grunted. "Only to think that 
I should go to sleep. Ahoy-ey 1" he shouted. 

There was no reply, and his heart smote him as he felt that he 
had neglected the poor Malay. Then he felt that he was lost 
in the jungle ; but that did not trouble him much, for he was 
sure that if he followed the little stream he should find that it 
entered a larger, and that the larger would run into one larger 
still, probably into the Parang, whose course he could follow 
down. But that would be only as a last resoiurce. 



CHAPTER LVIIL 



THE DOSE OF TOODAH. 

Doctor Bolter^s was a painful position, and he could not 
help feeling how utterly weak man is in the midst of nature's 
solitudes. He could have stood meditating for long enough, but 
he had to find his companion ; and after shouting for some time 
and getting no answer, he listened for the rippling noise of the 
stream, and heard it sounding very faintly far off on his right. 

Making for it as a starting-place, he found the tracks he had 
made, the grass being trampled down in all directions. What 
was more, he found his trail crossed over and over again, and 
even followed by that of crocodiles, whose toes were marked in 
the mud wherever it was laid bare. 

7'wice over he startled one of the reptiles, which fled before 
him with a rush into the stream, which was little better than an 
overgrown ditch, and the doctor hastily backed away. 

He soon found that all endeavours to hit upon his way back 
by the trail were useless, and once more he began to shout. 

To his great delight his cry was answered, and on making for 
the sound he heard directly after the rustling of bushes being 
thrust aside, and soon after stood face to face with the Malay. 

" I have been sleeping," said the latter, smiling. " My arm is 

better now." 

" If our English fellows could stand injuries like these ! " 
muttered the doctor, who looked with astonishment at the light 
way in which the Malay treated the terrible injury he had re- 
ceived. 

" Do you feel as if you could lead the way back?" he said, 
after halting and rebinding the Malay's wound. 

*' Oh, yes," the Malay said cheerfully ; and he at once set off. 

" But my gun?" cried the doctor. " I have left it behind." 

The man led him back to the place with the greatest ease, and 
after wiping the wet and rust from lock and barrel, they set off 
through the dripping undergrowth, and had been walking about 




half an hour, the doctor's excitement growing each minute as 
they drew nearer the camp, when his guide suddenly stopped 
and laid his hand upon the other's arm. 

" Listen ! " he said ; and as he spoke there was the distant 
sound of a shot, then another, and other. 

\ Thank heaven ! " cried the doctor, " they are making a fight 
for it. Get on quickly." 

They went on along an old overgrown track, with the sound of 
the firing growing each minute nearer ; and the doctor's heart 
beat joyfully as he made out that a pretty brisk engagement was 
going on. 

Soon, however, the firing began to drop off, to be renewed 
from time to time in a straggling manner; and to his great joy 
the doctor found that those who fired were coming along the 
track he was upon. 

" Yes," said the Malay, who seemed to read his countenance ; 
" but they may be enemies.'* 

Yielding to the latter's solicitations, they hid themselves 
amidst the dense undergrowth a few yards from the track, and 
waited patiently. 

It was not for long. Soon after they had taken their stand 
they could hear voices ; and directly after the doctor hurried 
out as he saw an advance guard of the men of his regiment 
under a lieutenant. 

The men gave a hearty Hurrah t as they saw him, and the 
lieutenant caught him by the hand. 

" Glad to see you, doctor ; we thought you killed." 

"Yes; and I did you," cried the doctor. "How are you all?" 

" They'll tell you behind/' said the lieutenant '* Forward, 
my lads." 

The guard moved on, and the doctor came upon the little 
force, firing going on again in the rear. 

He met Major Sandars directly, and their greeting was warm 
in the extreme. 

"The scoundrels tried to poison us," said the major. 

"Yes, yes, I know," cried the doctor; " but is any one hurt?" 

"A few scratches there in the dhoolies," said the major. 

" No QTLQ killed ? " 

"Not a soul, thank heaven," cried the major, "But we shall 
have our work cut out. Ah, here's Horton. All right in the rear? " 

" Yes," was the reply; " we are keeping them back. Ah, doctor, 
I am glad to see you again. You know what's happened ? " 

" Partly," said the doctor; " but tell me." 

They were moving forward as he spoke, and he learned now 




that the little force was working to hit the river higher up in its 
course, and from thence try to communicate with the island and 
the steamer. 

" You had not been gone above a couple of hours before, as 
we were sitting smoking and chatting, and thinking of turning 
in, first one and then another began to complain of pain and 
drowsiness. 

" The major there was the first to take alarm, thinking it was 
cholera ; but it was Mr Linton who saved us. He no sooner 
realized what was the matter than he slipped out of the tent, and 
without waiting for orders made his way to the sergeant's 
guard, and got the fellow on duty to collect all the men he could 
to come up to the tent. How many do you think he got ? " 

" Twenty ¡ª thirty ¡ª how should I know ? " said the doctor im- 
patiently. " Go on." 

" Four," said the captain. "All the others were down and 
half delirious. Fortunately my Jacks had escaped, and thirty 
of them seized their rifles, and followed Mr Linton at the double 
to the hut. 

" T]iey wQie just in time. That scoundrel Hamet had given 
an order and withdrawn from the tent; at one end of which 
about a hundred of his cut-throats had gathered, kris in hand, 
and were only waiting for us to get a little more helpless before 
coming upon us to put us out of our misery. 

" Bless your heart, doctor ! it would have done you good to 
see the Jacks clear that tent at the point of the bayonet I And 
then, while half of them kept the enemy at bay, the other half 
brought in the sick men, and laid 'em side by side till they were 
all under canvas. 

"It was horrible, I can tell you," continued the captain, 
" We were all in great pain, but the dull sleepy sensation was 
the worst, and it seemed no use to fight against it. We all, to a 
man, thought that we were dying, and so did the sailors, who 
had not touched the horrible stuff. And yet we could hear every 
word as plainly as if our power of hearing had been increased, 
though we could not speak. 

" ' Give them water,' I heard the sergeant say. 

No, no,' said my boatswain ; ' you get the rum keg in, my 
lad, and give 'em a strong dose apiece o' that.' 

" The Jacks fetched it in under fire, and they gave us a tre- 
mendous dose apiece, and I believe it saved our lives !" 

" I'm sure it did," said the doctor. " It set up a rapid action 
of the heart, and that carried off the poison." 

** I dare say it did," said the captain, " but it gave me a beautiful 





headache. However, the sergeant and the boatswain lost no 
time, but took matters in their own hands, cut the ropes, and 
let the tent go by the board, for fear the enemy should set it on 
fire, and then made the best breastwork they could all round us, a 
little party charging out every now and then and bringing in boxes, 
cases, tubs, everything they could lay hold of, to strengthen out 
position. One time they fetched in half-a-dozen spades, another 
time the axes ; and little by little they formed such a defence, 
that tipped as it was by our fellows' bayonets, the Malays dare 
not try to force. 

"We soon found, though," he continued, "that they were 
furious with disappointment, for spears began to fly till our lads 
searched the nearest cover with some bullets, when the enemy 
retired a little farther, and then the boys got in the spears and 
made an abattis with them. 

" In spite of the danger and the sudden surprise, our fellows 
enjoyed it, for they had the pleasure of driving the scoundrels 
out of their own camp, and they had to put up with the shelter 
of the trees all night They made four savage attacks upon us, 
though, and the first time, from too much ground having been 
covered by the breastwork, the enemy nearly carried all before 
them, and it came to bayonetting and the spears getting home ; 
but our brave lads drove them back, and then a few volleys sent 
them in to cover. 

" The next time they attacked, the major and a dozen of the 
soldiers were ready to help a little. They were too ill to do 
much, but they held their pieces and made a show of bayonets, 
and the major managed to take the command. 

" The next time we all of us managed to make a show of 
fighting ; while a couple of hours after, when the enemy made 
their last and most savage attack, they got such a warm re- 
ception that they let us have the rest of the night in peace." 

" And this morning, then, you began to retreat ! " 

" Yes," the major said, " there was nothing else for it" 

" But why not have retreated by the way we came ? " said the 
doctor, 

" Because, my dear fellow, the whole country's up, and this 
was the only way open. If we had gone by the track our fel- 
lows would have been speared one by one, for the jungle is too 
dense to skirmish through. But here's Linton ; he will tell you 
better than I can." 

As the retreat continued, the rearguard being always closely 
engaged with the Malays, who pressed upon them incessantly, 
Mr Linton came up, begrimed with powder, and shook hands. 




" This is a horrible affair, doctor ! " he said sadly. 

*' Don't say horrible," said the other, cheerfully. "We shall 
fight our way through to the river." 

"I hope so," said Mr Linton. "But we have scarcely any 
provisions. Not more, certainly, than a day or two^s rations. 
That is bad enough ? but you do not understand my anxiety. 
We have let ourselves be drawn into a trap, and the whole 
country rises against us." 

**Let it rise," said the doctor, sturdily; "we'll knock it down 
again." 

" But the residency, man ¡ª the steamer I " 

" Phew ! " whistled the doctor. " I had forgotten them." 

" I had not," said Mr Linton, sadly, "and I fear the worst" 

" Keep up your spirits, man. There are those on the island, 
and aboard that steamer, who will keep every Malay in the 
country at bay." 

" If they are not overcome by treachery, as we nearly were." 

" We must hope then," said the doctor ; " hope that those in 
charge will be more on the alert. I say, though, Linton, did 
you give these people credit for such a trick?" 

" Yes ; for I have had more experience of them than you ; 
and I blame myself most bitterly for not being more cautious." 

" Regrets are vain," said the doctor. " Let's do all we can to 
make up for our lapse ¡ª if lapse it has been." 

" We will," said the resident. " Would to heaven, though, 

that I could feel more at ease about those we have left behind. 

If we only had a guide on whom we could depend, matters 
would not be so bad." 

" I have one for you," said the doctor, joyfully. 

" Who ? Where is he ? " exclaimed Mr Linton, 

" Here, close at hand," he said. 

And hurrying on to where he had left the Malay guide in 
charge of a couple of soldiers, he found that he had arrived only 
just in time ; for feeling was very strong just then against every 
one wearing a dark skin, and the men were looking askant at 
one whom they believed likely to betray them at any moment. 

" A Malay ! " said Mr Linton, doubtfully. 

'* Yes, and a trusty one," said the doctor, decisively. "I will 
answer for his fidelity." 

" That is rather bold, doctor," said the major, who just then 
came up ; " but these are times when we must not be too par- 
ticular. Can he understand us ? " 

" I was the young chief Ali's servant, and I speak English," 
said the Malay, quietly. 




" That is no recommendation," said Captain Hortonj sharply. 
" That young chief deserted us, Hke the rest." 

" No," said the doctor ; " he was assassinated for taking our 
part ; and this man nearly shared his fate." 

This decided matters in favour of the Malay being retained 
as guide ; but there was still a difficulty, and that was, would 
the poor fellow, injured as he was, be able to undertake the 
duty? 

He said he could, however ; and as soon as he understood 
what was wanted, he went to the front, and the retreat was 
continued. 



CHAPTER LIX. 



LIKE BROTHERS IN DISTRESS. 

It was a strange country to struggle through, for roads hardly had 
any existence. The rivers were the highways, and upon the 
banks the villages or campongs of the Malays were invariably 
placed. There were a few narrow tracks, such as the one the 
retreating party hurried along, but all else was dense jungle, the 
untrodden home of wild beasts. So dense was it that there was 
fortunately nothing to fear from attack on either side. It must 
come from the front, or else from the rear. Neither friend nor 
foe could penetrate many yards through the wall of verdure that 
shut them in to right and left. To have tried to flank them 
without literally breaking a way through the canes and interlacing 
plants was impossible. 

On being asked how long it would take to march to the river 
and strike it high up, the Malay replied, three days of hard walk- 
ing ; and the hearts of his hearers sank as they thought of their 
position, with scarcely any provender, no covering against the 
night dews or heavy rains, and only the earth for their resting- 
place, while a virulent enemy was always on their track, striving 
hard to cut off all they could. 

There was no other course open, however, but to face it, for 
it would have been madness to have tried to fight their way 

through the hostile country ; and every one bent manfully to the 
task 

As they struggled on through the steamy bush the rear-guard 
was changed again and again, a fresh party of defenders taking 
up the task of keeping the pursuers at bay, and to each man in 
turn was the warning given that no shot must be fired unless it 
could be made to tell ; consequently the fire was less fierce, but, 
as the Malays found to their cost, more fatal 

The end of the third day was approaching, and the progress of 
the party had grown slower and slower, for their guide's strength 
had failed. The poor fellow had fought on bravely in spite of 





his wounds, insisting that he was well enough to walk, when all 
the time he was suffering intense agony ; and this was not to be 
without its result. 

During the day the Malays had attacked far more fiercely 
than usual, and though always repulsed, it had not been without 
loss. Several men had fallen, while others were wounded, in- 
creasing terribly the difficulties of the case, for the injured men 
had to be carried by those who found that their task of fighting 
their way through the jungle in the midst of the dense heat was 
already as much as they could bear. 

Still no one murmured. The pleasure-trip had turned out to 
be one of terrible misery, but each man, soldier or sailor, had a 
cheery word for his neighbour ; and whenever an unfortunate re- 
ceived a spear or bullet wound, the doctor was on the spot 
directly, tending him ; while a couple of his comrades deftly cut 
a few canes and bound them together, making a light litter, upon 
which the wounded man was placed, and carried on the shoulders 
of four men. 

The wounded made a terrible demand upon the sound ; and 
now, to add to their trouble, men began to fall out of the ranks 
stricken down by disease. 

It was no more than the doctor anticipated; but it was 

terrible work. 

Captain Horton was one of the first ¡ª after fighting bravely in 
the rear ¡ª to go to the doctor and complain of his head. 

"I can't get on, doctor," he said. "The giddiness is dread- 
ful, and the pain worse. Give me something to ease it all." 

The doctor said he would, and prescribed what he could from 
the little case he had with him, but he knew what was coming. 
Captain Horton had taken the jungle fever, and in an hour 
he was strapped down upon a litter, raving with delirium. 

Then ar.other, and another, went down, the officers falling one 
after another, till Major Sandars was left alone with the doctor, 
who had to divide his time between attending to his many 
patients and handling a rifle to help in their defence. 

The consequence was that on the third night, instead of being 
near the river, they were halted in the dense jungle, with their 
outposts on the alert, and the rest throwing themselves beside 
the sick and wounded, too much exhausted even to care for 

food. 

Major Sandars and the doctor stood talking together beneath 

the shade of a silk-cotton tree, whose leaves seemed to keep off a 

portion of the heavy falling dew, and the former was waiting for 

an answer from his companion, who, however, did not speak. 





" Come, say something, doctor," exclaimed the major; " what 
do you think of affairs ? " 

" What can I say ? " replied the doctor, sadly ; " we can go no 
farther." 

" But we must," exclaimed the major, impatiently. " The river 
must be reached, and a message sent down to the steamer." 

" There is only one way/' replied Doctor Bolter. 

" How is that ? " 

" Leave the sick and wounded behind, and push on. The poor 
fellows can carry them no farther." 

" Then we'll stop where we are," said the major, sharply, " for 
I won't leave a man behind" 

" Of course you will not I knew you would say so. Then all 
I can recommend is that we stay as we are for a few days, and 
try and recruit." 

" With bad water, and hardly any provisions," said the majoc 
**Ah, Bolter, this is a terribly bad business." 

" Yes," said the doctor, holding out his^'hand, which was 
eagerly grasped, " it is a terrible business- But you know what 
the foreigners say of us, Sandars ?" 

" No : what do you mean ? " 

" That the English never know when they are beaten. We 
don't know when we are beaten, and our lads are like us, God 
bless them, poor fellows, for they are as patient as can be ! " 

"What do you advise, then ?" said the major. "It is your 
duty to advise." 

" I did advise," said the doctor, laughing. " I proposed lop- 
ping off the bad limb of our little party, so as to leave the rest 
free to hobble on." 

"And suppose I had consented to it," said the major; "made 
the sick and wounded as comfortable as we could, and pushed 
on with the rest, what would you do ? " 

" Do ?" said Doctor Bolter ; " I don't understand you." 

** I mean, of course you would have to come with us ; for the 
Malays would butcher the poor fellows as soon as they came up," 

" Come with you, major? Are you mad? Why, who would 
tend the poor boys, and see to their bandages ? No, my dear 
Sandars. Your place is with the sound, mine is with the un- 
sound. Go on with your lot ¡ª poor fellows ¡ª and see if you can 
reach the river. You might perhaps send help in time to save 
us. If you didn't, why, I should have made them comfortable 
to the end, and done my duty." 

" My dear doctor ; " said Major Sandars, holding out his hand. 

" My dear major," said the doCor. " Good-bye, then ; and 
God bless you ! " 





**\VTiatl" cried the major, "And did you think I was 
going?" 

"Of course J ' 

" More shame for you, then, for thinking me such a cur. Leave 
you and these poor fellows here in the midst of the jungle, to be 
murdered by those cowardly pirates? Not I. Why, the men 
would mutiny if I proposed such a thing. No ; we'll wait a few 
hours, and then get on a few miles and rest again, the best way 
we can." 

" But you will only get the poor fellows killed if you stay," 
said the doctor." 

" Well, hadn*t we all better be killed like men doing our duty, 
than go off and live like cowards and curs ? '* 

" Of course you had," said the doctor, speaking huskily, 
" But I felt that it was my duty to leave you free." 

" Doctor," said the major, la5dng his hand upon the other's 
shoulder, " there's nothing like trouble for making a man know 
what a deal of good there is in human nature. You're a good 
fellow, doctor. Hang it, man, you've made me feel as soft as a 
girl I" 

He turned away his face, that staunch, brave soldier, for a few 
moments, and then the weakness was past, and he turned sharply 
round to the doctor. 

"Now," he said, "you shall see what stuff our soldiers and 
sailors are made of. Come here." 

He led the doctor back to the rear, where the guard, sun- 
blackened, haggard fellows, with their clothes hanging in rags 
from the thorns, were on the watch, and this being out of ear- 
shot of the sick and wounded, who were all ranged side by side 
beneath a couple of shady spreading trees, he gave the order 
for the men to fall in, when, with the precision that they would 
have shown upon a parade ground, the soldiers fell in making 
one line ; the sailors another in the rear. 

" Face inwards ! " cried the major, and he turned first to the 
sailors. " My lads," he said, "your officers being all down, the 
duty of commanding you has fallen upon me, and I thank you 
for the ready way in which you have obeyed my orders. You 
have been as willing and as trusty as my own boys here, and that 
is saying a great deal." 

There was a little shuffling of feet at this, and the men looked 
uncomfortable. 

" I am sorry to say," continued the major, " that matters have 
come to such a grievous pass with us, that I have to make a 
stitement, to which I want to hear your reply. I have no occa- 




sion to speak to you, for I know that you will to a man obey my 
orders to the last ; but I want to hear what you will say," 

There was a pause here, and then the major went on, 

" Matters have come to this, my lads, that I see you can 
stagger on no longer with the loads you have to bear. In fact, 
two more poor fellows are down, and it will take every fighting 
man to carry the others. So I have been talking the matter over 
with the doctor, and it has come to this, that our only chance 
is to leave the sick and wounded, and push on, make for the 
river, in the hope of getting help, and coming back to save them. 
What do you say ? " 

** Lord love you, sir," cried one of the sailors, " why, afore to- 
night them niggers would have sarved every one of our poor 
mates like the doctor, there, sarves the black beadles and but- 
terflies ¡ª stuck a pin or a kirs through 'em." 

It was a grim subject to jest upon, and it was a serious thing \ 
but there was a roar of laughter from the men, and the doctor 
chuckled till he had to hold his sides, and then wipe his eyes. 

"I hope not so bad as that," said the major, when he had 
called Attention I "It is, however, I fear our only hope. Will 
some man among you speak ? " 

There was a shuffling and a whispering at this, and every man 
nudged his neighbour to begin, but no one spoke till the sergeant 
felt that it was his duty, and going along the front of both ranks 
he had a few words with the soldiers and the jacks. After this 
he retook his place and saluted. 

" Men seem to be all of one opinion, sir," he said gruffly. 

"And what is that opinion?" inquired the major. 

"They say, sir, as I say, that they wouldn't like their mates 
to desert them in a time of trouble like this." 

" That's right sergeant," shouted a sailor, 

" Yes, that's a true word," shouted another. 

"Attention, there ! " cried the major, sharply. " do on, sergeant" 

" And if so be as our officer don't order us different, we'll all 
stick to one another, sick and sound, to the end." 

" Hear, hear ; hurray ! " cried the men, as with one voice. 

" Do I understand, my lads, that you will stand by the sick 
and wounded to the last ? " 

" Yes, sir, all on us 1 " shouted the men in chorus. 

"Yes, sir," cried the joking sailor, "and we'll all carry one 
another till there's only one left as can carry ; and he'll have a 
jolly hard time of it, thafs alL" 

The stem discipline was for a moment forgotten, and a heaity 
roar of laughter followed this sally. 





''Attention 1" cried the major after a few moments, and he 
spoke as if he was deeply moved. '* It is only what I ex- 
pected from my brave lads ; and I may tell you now that this is 
what Doctor Bolter and I had determined to do ¡ª stand to- 
gether to the last." 

" Only we won't have any last, my lads," cried the doctor. 

" I hope not," said the major. ** We'll go on more slowly and 
take longer rests, for I must have no more of you men down with 
sickness. Let us hope that we may win our way safely to the 
ship and the island yet. I would send out a little party to try 
and fetch help, but I fear they are beset at the residency already, 
and I do not think a detachment could succeed I propose then 
that we all hold together and do our best." 

" That we will, sir," cried the men, and a voice proposed 
three cheers for the major. 

These were hardly given before he held up his hand, and in 
a few words thanked them, while the doctor was called away, 

"And now, my lads, we will go forward once more, and do 
the best we can. If we can only get a mile a day it is something, 
and every man will lend a hand. We will march at once. Yes, 
doctor ? More bad news ? " 

" Yes," said Doctor Bolter, bluntly; "our guide has broken 
down. 

" Broken down/' 

" Yes, he is quite delirious." 

"And," muttered the major, "we are worse than helpless 
without a guide." 



CHAPTER LX. 



SIGNALS OF DISTRESS. 

The night passed on board the steamer without any alarm, and 
at daybreak steam was up, and with the men at their quarters 
and every gun loaded, they set off on their return journey. 

As the lieutenant said, it was no use to murmur about their 
misfortune ; all they could do was to try and make the best of 
matters by getting back as soon as possible. 

He could gladly have gone on at full speed, but caution forbad 
it. There were mudbanks and turns innumerable ; and even 
going slowly, the length of the vessel was so great that again and 
again they were nearly aground upon some shoal, or brushed the 
overhanging trees with their bows. 

Of one thing the lieutenant felt certain ¡ª that they had not 
been led into this narrow river without some plans being made 
for keeping them there. Therefore every man was on the alert 
for an ambush, or something that should stop their further pro- 
gress towards the mouth of the sluggish stream. 

It was terribly slow work, and Lieutenant Johnson stamped 
with patience as he saw how poorly they progressed, speaking 
snappishly to Bob Roberts when the latter ventured upon some 
observation. 

This went on three or four times, when, feeling hurt by a 
sharp remark on the lieutenant's part, Bob exclaimed, ¡ª 

" You needn't be so hard upon me, captain ; it was not my fault. " 

Lieutenant Johnson turned upon him angrily, and was about 
to say something severe, but Bob's injured look disarmed him, 
and he held out his hand. 

" I'm hipped, Roberts," he said, and hardly know what I say. 
" Steady, there ; steady !" 

This to the man at the wheel as they were rounding a point ; 
but the order had a contrary effect to what was intended ; it 

flurried and unsteadied the sailor, who took a pull too much at 
the spokes, and before anything could be done to check the 




steamer's speed, her sharp bows had cut deeply into the muddy 
bank of the river, and she was aground. 

" Was anything ever so unlucky?," cried the lieutenant ; and 
then he gave order after order. Guns were swung round so as 
to sweep the bows should the Malays try to board them from 
the shore ; the engines were reversed ; the men tramped from 
side to side of the deck ; everything possible was done : but the 
steamer remained fixed in the mud without a possibility 
apparently of getting her oif. 

The jungle was of the densest all around, and the men 
approached the bows with caution, for the head of the steamer 
was right in amidst dense foliage, and it was quite probable that 
any number of the enemy might be concealed and ready to hurl 
spears at the slightest chance. 

Neither seeing nor hearing signs of the enemy, the lieutenant 
at last ordered Roberts to try and land and see if the Malays 
were near. " It's a risky job, Roberts," he said kindly, " but 
you must take it I cannot leave the steamer." 

" Oh, I'll take it," said Bob, coolly, and examining his revolver, 
he drew his sword, and telling the men to follow, ran forward, 
scrambled over the bows, and leaped ashore, the men imitating 
his example, for the bank was only some six or eight feet below 
the bulwarks. 

But though they were landed there was little more to be done, 
unless they had been provided with billhooks to clear the way. 
The undergrowth was nearly as dense as a hedge, and after trying 
in half-a-dozen different ways, and only penetrating some twenty 
or thirty yards, they were obliged to give up, drenched with 
perspiration, their flesh full of thorns. 

" IVe got something bitting my legs horribly," cried Bob, 
turning up his trousers, and then giving a shudder of disgust, 
for half-a-dozen leeches were busy at work making a meal upon 
him, and several of the sailors were in the same predicament. 

"There, my lads, we may as well get on board," said Bob, 
grimly, " I don't like shedding my blood in the service of my 
country after this fashion. We can do nothing here, and it 
would puzzle a cat ¡ª let alone a Malay ¡ª to get through." 

So they returned on board, satisfied that there was no fear of 
an attack from that quarter, and the rest of the day was devoted 
to trying to get the steamer out of her unpleasant predicament. 

Night fell with the men utterly wearied out, and, in despair, 
Lieutenant Johnson was taking himself to task for his bad 
management, as he termed it, when Bob Roberts suddenly 
seized him by the arm. 




"What is it, Roberts?" 

" A shot off yonder in the jungle," he exclaimed; 

" I did not hear it," was the reply 3 and they stood listening ; 
but there was nothing but the hum of insects and the distant 
splash of some reptile in the muddy river. 

" If we could have only heard some news of those poor 
fellows, I would not have cared," said the lieutenant after a 
pause. " Perhaps at this time they are anxiously hoping that 
help may come, and wondering why we have not sent in search 
of them ; while we, with men and guns, are lying here helpless 
as a log. Oh, Roberts, it's enough to make a man jump over- 
board and ¡ª " 

" There it is again,*' cried Bob. 

"What?" 

** A shot !" he cried excitedly. " I'm sure I heard a rifle-shot" 

" Any of you men hear a shot ? " said the lieutenant to the watch, 

" No, sir ; no, sir." 

"I heard nothing, Roberts," said the lieutenant. "You are 
excited with exertion. Go below and have a glass of sherry, my 
lad, and put in a dose of quinine. I can't afford to have you 
down with fever." 

'*No, thanky," said Bob; "I could manage the glass of wine, 
but I'm not going to spoil it with the quinine, I'm ¡ª There now, 
what's that ? If that isn't a rifle-shot I'm no man." 

"Then it isn't a rifle-shot," said the lieutenant, grimly, "I 
heard nothing." 

" Beg pardon, sir, I think it was a shot" 

" There's another ! " cried Bob, excitedly, " It's our fellows 
somewhere." 

There were a couple of distant shots, faintly heard now by alL 

" You're right, Roberts," said the lieutenant, hastily; " but it is 
not obliged to be our fellows." 

" They couldn't have followed up from the island, sir," cried 
Bob ; "so it must be." 

" Unless it is a party of Malays shooting." 

"Then they are shooting our men,'* cried Bob, "They 
wouldn't be hunting when its getting dark." 

" There's another shot," said the lieutenant, now growing as 
excited as his companion. " What shall we do ? " 

" Fire a big gun," said Bob. 

" That would be letting our enemies know where we are," said 
he lieutenant. 

"Well," said Bob, sturdily, "let 'em know. It will show 'em 
that we are not afraid of them." 





"Yon are right, Roberts," said lieutenant Johnson, quickly. 
" Unshot the bow gun there." 

The gun was opened ; the shot cartridge drawn out, a blank 
one substituted ; and directly after, the black darkness that had 
seemed to settle down over them was cut by a vivid flash, and 
the utter silence that was brooding over the river was broken by 
the deep-mouthed roar of the great breech-loading cannon. 

The report seemed to roll off into the distance and echo 
amongst the mountains; and then, as it died away, they all 
listened with strained senses for some reply. 

It came, just as they expected ¡ª three rifle-shots in succession. 
Then a pause, and three more rifle-shots. 

There was a pause then, and the silence seemed awful, for the 
report of the great gun had driven every living thing near at hand 
to its lair. 

"Three marines," said the lieutenant, sharply, "fire as I give 
the order. One ¡ª two ¡ª three ! " 

The three shots rang out at stated intervals, and the men re- 
loaded and fired as before. 

Then they waited again, and the signal was answered in a 
peculiar way that left no doubt whatever in the minds of those 
on board, and a murmur of satisfaction ran through the little 
crew. 

And now, for the first time, Lieutenant Johnson began to 
wonder whether he had doubted the Malay guide without cause. 
He might have been swept overboard after all, and the hunting- 
party be really hemmed in at some stockade. 

A few moments' consideration, however, showed that this 
could not be the case, for they had journeyed back many miles 
before the steamer ran aground; and though the river winded a 

great deal, it was impossible that the stockade could have 
been higher up. The firing certainly came from quite another 
direction, away from the river ; and shots that were evidently 
not signals were now heard again ¡ª one or two, then three or four 
together, as if men were skirmishing, and then came several 
volleys. 

There was a fight going on, that was evident ; and as the two 
officers realised this, they felt half maddened at their helpless- 
ness. 

They wanted to go to the aid of those who were fighting, but 
it would have been utter madner.r, to have attempted to land 
with a detachment in the dark and try to hack a way through 
the jungle. They might have fired signals and had them re- 
sponded to, but it would have been a helpless, bewildering piece 





of folly ; and with pulses beating rapidly with excitement, and 
every nerve on the stretch, they felt themselves bound to a state 
of inaction, still they felt that they could fire signals to guide 
those who might, perhaps, get nearer, or, if shut in some place, 
fight the better for knowing that help was so near. 

They did all they could, sending up a rocket firora time to 
time, and twice, at intervals of about an hour, firing a big gun, 
each signal eliciting a reply from the distance ; and then, at 
intervals often minutes, a rifle was fired, while, when six, seven, 
and eight bells were sounded, the same number of rifle-shots 
were heard. 

It was a night of general watching on board the steamer, no 
man seeking shelter, though about seven bells the rain began 
to pour down with all the violence of a storm in the tropics, 
accompanied by thunder and lightning of the heaviest and 
most vivid description. 

For about four hours this kept on, guns being fired in the 
intervals, when the thunder ceased for a few moments j but no 
'inswering shots had been heard for some time. 

One thing was very evident ¡ª the party engaged were 
entrenched somewhere, and defending themselves, for their 
answering shots had been no nearer ; in fact, all felt that 
travelling through the dense jungle was impossible until daylight 
set in. 

The night was about half gone when the storm ceased as 

suddenly as it had come on; the clouds were dispersed, and 
the moon shone out clearly, showing them that the sluggish 
river was sluggish no longer, but running fast, and threatening 
to fill up to the top of its high banks, the water coming down 
evidently from the mountains. 

This revived the hopes of all on board, and not without reason, 
for the steamer was gradually shifting her position ] and hardly 
had a boat been lowered, and a hawser made fast to one of the 
big trees ashore, before she lifted more and more; and in 
a few moments more, to the delight of all, they felt the 
branches sweeping the rigging, and the steamer moving free 
and clear. 

The men, forgetting discipline, and the need perhaps for 
silence, gave an involuntary cheer ; which ceased on the instant 

as, from somewhere lower down the stream, there came a 
faint, " Ship ahoy I '' 

" Ahoy !" was answered. 

And after a brief colloquy a boat was lowered down, with 
nalf-a-dozen marines as well as the crew, Bob Roberts taking 




command, and cautiously steering her towards where the man 
who hailed seemed to be. 

The boat was allowed to descend the stream stem foremost, 
the men dipping their oars occasionally to keep her head right, 
and to prevent her being swept down too swiftly. 

The next minute, at the word, they gave away, and the cutter 
was run in beneath the branches to where one of the crew stood 
in tl>e moonlight, with a soldier by his side, 

" Why, it's Parker I " cried Bob, catching the man's hand. 

" Parker it is, Mr Roberts, sir," said the man faintly. " I 
thought we should never have done it, what with the storm and 
the thick cane. We've about cut our way here." 

"And the captain and Major Sandars?" cried Bob. 

"'Bout a mile away, sir, through the jungle, wanting help 
badly." 

"Can we get there to-night?*' cried Bob. "But jump in 
my lads, and we'll hear what the lieutenant says. Come : why 
don't you jump in ?" 

" I'm bet out, sir, and my mate too," said the sailor. " We're 
a bit wounded, sir. We volunteered to come for help when we 
first heerd the dear old * Startler ' speak out, but it's been a long 
job. Will you help us aboard, mates?'' 

Half-a-dozen willing hands soon had the two poor, drenched, 
wounded, and exhausted men on board the cutter, and five 
minutes after they w^ere on the deck being questioned by the 
lieutenant. 

" I told the captain, sir, as I'd ask you to fire two guns if we 
got here safe. He's down with fever, sir, and it would cheer 
him up if he heard the old gal say ¡ª begging your pardon ¡ª as 
she was close at hand." 

The word was given, and a couple of heavy roars from the 
" old gal," as the sailor affectionately called his ship, bore the 
news to the captain ; and then, in answer to the lieutenant, 
both of the messengers declared that it would be impossible to 
get to the helpless party that night. 

" I wouldn't say so, sir, if I didn't feel," said Parker, " that 
the lads would only go losing theirselves in the wet jungle, and 
do no good. If you'd start at daybreak, sir, and take plenty of 
rum and biscuits, as well as powder and shot, you might get 
them aboard." 

Then by slow degrees those on board learned from the worn- 
out messengers the whole of their experience, and how that 
since Major Sandars had appealed to the men, and they had 
sworn to stick together to the last, they had only made journeys 


of about a mile in length through the dense jungle. The guide 
was still delirious, and half the men down with sickness or 
wounds. Food they had had of the most meagre description, 
and that principally the birds they had shot Their ammunition 
was fast failing, and the time seemed to have come that evening 
to lie down and die, so weak were they, and so pertinacious were 
the attacks of the enemy ¡ª when a thrHl of joy ran through every 
breast as they heard the signal shots, and knew that there was 
help zX hand. 



CHAPTER LXL 



HOW BOB ROBERTS TURNED THE TABLES. 

Never was daylight looked for with greater anxiety than that 
night on board the steamer. 

With the first flush she was allowed to float lower down, till 
abreast of the spot where the two men were taken on board, 
and then every available hand was landed, under Bob Roberts' 
command, to try, by firing signals and listening for the reply, to 
reach the place where the worn-out party were making their 
last stand. 

The two poor fellows who had come on board were in too 
pitiable a plight to move, and, even if they had gone, they could 
not have guided the relief party, who, only twenty strong, leaped 
ashore, eager to reach their friends, and inflict some punishment 
on the Malays, while the others retreated towards the ship. 

Every man was laden heavily with food and amunition, 
Lieutenant Johnson's difficulty being to keep the brave fellows 
from taking too much, and hindering their fighting powers, as, 
with a hearty cheer, they plunged in amidst the interlacing canes. 

The task was hard, but less so than they expected ¡ª resolving 
itself as it did into hacking the canes and forcing their way 
through ; for before they had gone far they could hear firing 
before them, and it was kept up so vigorously that there was no 
occasion to fire a single signal. 

Hour after hour did they toil on, till the firing suddenly 
ceased, and they were for a moment at fault ; but Bob Roberts 
and Old Dick, who were leading, suddenly heard vorces close at 
hand, where the forest growth was thinner ; and hacking and 
chopping away, they had nearly reached the spot when the firing 
suddenly began again furiously for a few moments, and then once 
more stopped 

The next minute the way was clear, and Bob Roberts, with his 
twenty blue-jackets and marines, went in at the double to an 
opening in the jungle where the remains of the hunting party 





were making a desperate stand against a strong body of Malays, 
who, spear against bayonet, were pressing them home. 

The middy took it all in at a glance, and saw that in another 
minute the weak helpless wielders of rifle and bayonet would be 
borne down, and they, and the sick and wounded lying in the 
long grass, massacred to a man. 

Major Sandars said afterwards that the oldest colonel in the 
service could not have done better; for, with his sun-browned 
face lighting up with excitement, and waving his sword, Bob 
Roberts shouted his orders to the men, sprang forward, giving 
point at a great bronze-skinned Malay who had borne the major 
down and was about to spear him, while with a hearty British 
cheer the marines and blue-jackets dashed up, poured in a 
staggering volley amongst the thronging enemy, and followed it 
up with a bayonet charge along the beaten-down jungle alley, till, 
dropping spear and kris, the Malays fled for their lives. 

Others were hurrying up to be present at the massacre ; for the 
news had spread that the English had fired their last cartridge 
and were weak with starvation ; but as they met their flying com- 
rades the panic spread. The reinforcements were magnified a 
hundred times ; and it wanted but Bob Roberts' quick sharp 
halt, form in line two deep, and the firing in of a couple of 
volleys, to send all to the right about, a few of the hindmost get- 
ting a prick of the bayonet before they got away. 

Pursuit would have been vain, so Bob left a picket of ^vq 
men under Old Dick to keep the narrow path, bidding them fell 
a tree or two so that their branches might lie towards and 
hinder an attack from the enemy, before hurrying back with 
fourteen men to the little jungle camp. 

He tried hard, but he could not keep back his tears as the 
gaunt bleeding remains of a fine body of men gathered round 
him to grasp his hands and bless him ; while, when one strange- 
looking little naked object came up and seized him by the 
shoulders, he felt almost ready to laugh. 

It was hard to believe it was Dr Bolter standing there, in a 
pair of ragged trousers reduced in length to knee breeches, and 
nothing else. 

'* Bob, my dear boy," he said, " I can*t tell you how glad I 
am ; but give me some rum, biscuits, anything you have, for my 
poor lads are perishing for want of food." 

The men's wallets were being emptied, and food and ammu- 
nition were rapidly distributed, for not a scrap of provision nor 
a single cartridge was left with the major's party. 

" Why, you are laughing at me, you dog," cried the doctor, as 
he came back for more provisions; "but just you have forty 




patients, Bob Roberts, many of them wounded, and not a ban- 
dage to use, Bob, my lad ! My handkerchiefs, neck and pocket, 
went first ; then my Norfolk jacket, and then my shirt. Poor 
lads ! poor brave lads 1" he said piteously; **rd have taken off 
my skin if it would have done them good." 

" Ah, doctor," said Bob, in a voice full of remorse, *' I'm only a 
boy yet, and a very thoughtless one. Pray forgive me. I meant 
no harm." 

"God bless you, my lad; I know that," cried the doctor, 
warmly, "You've saved us alL Boy, indeed? Well, so you 
are, Bob; but as long as England has plenty of such boys as you, 
we need not trouble ourselves about the men ¡ª they'll all come in 
time." 

It was a pitiful task, but every one worked with a will ; and 
now that they were refreshed with food, reanimated by the pre- 
sence of twenty fresh men, supplied with amunition, and, above 
all, supported by the knowledge that not a mile away, through 
the newly-cut path, there lay a haven of rest in the shape of the 
steamer ¡ª men who had been fit to Hq down and die, stood 
up, flushed, excited, and ready to help bear the sick and wounded 
towards the river ; while, to make matters better, the Malays had 
had such a thrashing in this last engagement that they made no 
fresh attack. The consequence was that half-a-dozen weak men 
under Major Sandars made a show in the rear, and all the strong 
devoted themselves to helping to carry the invalids to the steamer. 

More help was afforded too from the steamer itself as soon 
as Lieutenant Johnson found that there was no fear of attack, 
and in the end all were got safely on board ; and long before 
night Dr Bolter, clothed and comfortable, had all his sick men 
in berths and hammocks, well tended, already looking better, and 
he himself walking up and down the deck chuckling and rub- 
bing his hands. 

The losses had been severe, but far less than might have been 
expected, owing to the devotion of the men, who had struggled 
on till they could get no farther, and would have perished one 
and all but for the timely succour brought by the middy, and 
indirectly by the emissary of Rajah Gantang, who little thought 
when he took the steamer, by his clever ruse, up the solitary 
river, that he was leading them where it would be the salvation 
of the hunting party who were doomed to death. 

Not a moment liad been lost, and as soon as all were on 
board, the steamer recommenced her downward course towards 
the residency, where all felt that help must be urgently needed 
bv the little parly wJio had its defence. 



CHAPTER LXII. 



CAPTAIN SMITHERS PROVES A TRUE OFFICER, AND 

PRIVATE GRAY A GENTLEMAN. 

In truth help was urgently needed at the little fort ; but had its 
defenders been compelled to wait for that which the steamer 
would afford, every one would have been either butchered or 
taken off into a terrible captivity. 

Captain Smithers when he looked round had seen the enemy 
coming on in such strength ; and with a demonstration so full of 
clever plan, backed up by determination, that he could not help 
feeling that the critical moment had come, and that they must 
either surrender or meet death like men. 

If he surrendered, the probabilities were that they would all be 
massacred, save the women ; and as he thought of them he raised 
his eyes, and found those of Private Gray fixed upon him, as if 
reading his very souL 

" You know what I was thinking, Gray," he said, resentfully. 

" Yes, sir," said Gray, sharply ; " you were debating within 
yourself whether you should strike the Union Jack in token of 
surrender." 

" I was," said Captain Smithers, angry with himself at being as 
it were obliged to speak as he did to this simple private of his 
regiment. " And you advise it ? " 

" Advise it, sir ? For heaven's sake ¡ª for the sake of the ladies 
whom we have to defend, let us fight till the last gasp, and then 
send a few shots into the magazine. Better death than the 
mercy of a set of cut-throat pirates." 

Captain Smithers was silent for a few moments, and then he 
said quietly, ¡ª 

" I should not have surrendered, Gray. You are quite right.** 

He hesitated for a moment or two, and then said hoarsely, ¡ª 

" Gray, we hate each other." 

" This is no time for hatred, sir," said Gray, sternly. 

" No," said Captain Smithers, *' it is not. In half an hour we 



shall be, in all human probability, dead men. Rank will be no 
more. Gray, I never in my heart doubted your honesty. You 
are a brave man. Now for duty." 

" Yes, sir," said Gray, in a deeply moved voice ¡ª " for duty." 

Crash ! 

There was a sharp ragged volley from the enemy at that 
moment as a body of them advanced, and a shriek of agony from 
close by, followed by a fall. 

" Some poor fellow down," said the Captain, hoarsely. " Who 
is it. Sergeant Lund?" he said, taking a dozen strides in the 
direction of the cry. 

'* Private Sim, sir. Shot through the heart ¡ª dead ! " 

The captain turned away, and the next minute the fight on all 
sides was general, the enemy winning their way nearer and nearer, 
and a couple of prahus sending a shower of ragged bullets from 
their brass lelahs over the attacking party's heads. 

" Stand firm, my lads ; stand firm. Your bayonets, boys I " 
cried Captain Smithers, as with a desperate rush the Malays 
dashed forward now to carry the place by assault, and in suffi- 
cient numbers to sweep all before them ¡ª when boom I boom ! 
boom I boom I came the reports of heavy guns, and the fire from 
the prahus ceased. 

"Hurrah! my lads; steady!" cried Tom Long, waving his 
sword. " The steamer ! the steamer ! " 

"No," cried Captain Smithers, "it is from below. It is a 
heavily-armed prahu." 

" No," cried Tom Long ; "a steamer ! a steamer ! " 

He was right, for a little gunboat was rapidly ascendmg the 
river, and one of the prahus began to settle down in front of the 
fort, while the other used her sweeps to get away. 

Another minute, and just when they had won an entrance, 
beating back the defenders of the barricaded gateways, a panic 
seized upon the Malays, for shell after shell was dropping and 
bursting in their midst; and before Captain Smithers and his 
brave little party could realise the fact, the enemy was in full 

retreat 

A quarter of an hour later, and the gunboat was moored abreast 
of the fort, and congratulations were being exchanged. 

He had said nothing, not daring to hope for success ; but AH 
had, as soon as he could, sent a fisherman in his boat to try and 
convey word of the danger to the Bindings. The message had 
been faithfully borne, and the little gunboat sent to help to keep 
the enemy at bay, till the steamer could come from Penang with 
.1 detachment of infantry on board. 




The heavy guns were too much for the Malays ; and just as it 
had been decided that the gunboat should ascend the river in 
quest of the " Startler," the latter came slowly down the river 
with her rescued freight. 

In a couple more days the Penang steamer had arrived with a 
battalion of foot, under Colonel Hanson ; and the next thing 
heard was that the Sultan Hamet, with Rajah Gantang, had fled 
up the country, the minor chiefs sending in their submission to 
the British and suing for peace. 

Doctor Bolter became almost the greatest man at the station 
after this, and he went about laughing as he kept ¡ª to use his own 
w^ords ¡ª " setting men up," speaking of them as if they were 
natural history specimens. First he had to be thanked by Rachel 
Linton for saving her father's life ; then he found Captain 
Horton blessing him for his recovery ; and one way and another 
he had a very proud time of it, though, to his great regret, he had 
no chance of pursuing his favourite hobby. 

The Malay who acted as his guide was recovering fast from the 
tiger's clawing, and had attached himself to the doctor as servant 
when matters settled down ; and it was affecting to see the poor 
fellow's delight upon encountering Ali alive and well. 

Matters were soon arranged, and a busy party were at work 
rebuilding the residency, a number of Chinese joiners being 
enlisted for the task. 

Meanwhile the fort and barracks had to be the general dwelling; 

and Bob Roberts and Tom Long were looked upon as heroes. 

It so happened, that one day Colonel Hanson entered the 
mess-room, where Captain Horton, Major Sandars, Captain 
Smithers, and the other officers, were grouped about. Mr Linton 
and the ladies were present ; and on one side stood a group of 
soldiers, foremost among whom were Sergeant Lund and Private 
Gray. 

Alajor Sandars advanced to meet the governor's messenger, 
and he was about to make some remark, when Colonel Hanson 
turned round, caught sight of Private Gray, and started with 
astonishment 

The next moment he had gone forward to where Gray stood, 
looking very stern and troubled, and caught him by the hands, 
dragging him forward, and evidently forgetting all the stiff 
etiquette of the army. 

" Why, my dear old Frank," he cried, shaking his hands, and 
seeming as if he could hug him, " this is a surprise ! this is a 
meeting ! Why, where have you been ? Soldiering too, and 
wearing the scarlet ! My dear old Frank," he cried again, with 



his voice shaking with emotion, " I feel as weak as a child ; 
upon my word T do." 

" Colonel Hanson/' said Gray, quietly, but evidently very 
much moved, as he saw that they were the centre of every gaze, 
" this is indeed a strange meeting. I little thought it was you. 
But you forget ; we belong to different circles now." 

"Forget? Different circles ? Do we indeed?" cried Colonel 
Hanson, whose face was flushed with excitement. "I forget 
nothing. Come here," he cried, and dragging Gray's arm 
through his, he faced round to where the astonished officers and 
the resident were standing. 

" Major Sandars, Mr Linton, gentlemen, this is my very dear 
old friend, Francis Murray. We were schoolfellows together 
at Eton, and ¡ª and ¡ª and ¡ª I can't tell you now all the good 
brave things he has done for me. For years he has been miss- 
ing ; that wretched Overend and Gurney smash broke him, and 
he disappeared. And, Frank, you foolish fellow, I have been 
searching for you high and low to tell you that that cantan- 
kerous old lady, your aunt, was dead, and had changed her mind 
at the last moment, quarrelled with that lot who had got hold 
of her, sent for her solicitor, and left Greylands and every farthing 
she had to you. Thank goodness I have found you at last 
Now sign 5^ur application to buy out at once. I will forward 
it home, and take upon myself to consider it accepted, pending 
the official discharge." 

While this was going on, Captain Smithers, whose heart 
felt like lead, had gazed from one to the other. Now his eyes 
were fixed with bitter jealousy upon Private Gray, and now upon 
Rachel Linton, though she saw him not, but, pale and flushed 
by turns, she was gazing at Gray, 

He was a true gentleman at heart, and in spite of his 
misery and disappointment, that which he had just heard gave 
him some satisfaction. It had been one of his bitterest griefs ¡ª 
one with a poisoned sting ¡ª that feeling which always haunted 
him, that Rachel Linton should prefer a private soldier to him, 
an officer and a gentleman. For that she did love Gray he had 
long felt certain. Gray, or Murray, then, was a gentleman, who, 
like many other gentlemen, had enlisted, and served as a very 
brave soldier. Yes, he was, Captain Smithers owned to him- 
self, a very brave soldier, though he had felt that he hated 

him ; while now ¡ª now ¡ª 

" 1*11 fight it down," said Captain Smithers to himself. 
" Heaven helping me, 1*11 be a gentleman as well as an officer. 
He has won, and I have lost. I ought to like him for her sake, 
and I will." 





It was a brave effort, and it required all his strength ¡ª but 
he did it. He looked first at Rachel Linton, and then at the 
sweet sympathizing face of her cousin, and went up close to them. 

" Rachel," he said, holding out his hand and speaking in a 
low voice only heard by her and Miss Sinclair, "I give up. 
Let me be a dear friend, if I can be nothing more." 

Miss Linton held out her hand frankly and cordially, and 
he held it a moment in his. Then dropping it, he walked straight 
across to where Colonel Hanson was standing with Murray 
in the midst of a group, and holding out his hand, he said, ¡ª 

" Mr Murray, I am your debtor for my life. Henceforth let 
us, too, be very dear friends." 

The two young men clasped hands in a firm strong grip, each 
reading the other's thoughts, and they instinctively knew that 
henceforth all enmity between them was at end. It was all 
Frank Murray could do to stand firm, for he knew how great an 
effort this must have cost his rival, and he mentally vowed to 
repay him all. 

"Well," said Major Sandars, laughing, "this is a surprise 

indeed. Gentlemen all, Private Gray was so good and true a 

man in the private's mess, that I for one am quite sure he will be 

a welcome addition to ours." 

" Mr. Murray will grant that I have always looked upon him 

with respect," said Mr Linton, cordially. " I owe him too deep 
a debt," he said, holding out his hand, " not to feel intensely 

gratified at this change in his position." 

The other officers warmly shook hands, Tom Long amongst 
the number ; while, when it came to Bob Roberts' turn, he said 
with his eyes sparkling, ¡ª 

" I say, Mr Murray, I am glad, 'pon my word." 

Bob Roberts and Tom Long strolled out together on to the 
parade ground, crossing it to get under the trees where a group 
of soldiers and Jacks were standing. 

" I say, Tom Long, this is a rum game, isn't it ? " said Bob. 

'* I call it beastly," said Tom. " Well, there's one consolation, 
young fellow, your nose is out of joint in a certain quarter," 

" No," said Bob, it's yours. I've long enough given up my 
pretentions. Miss Linton and I are the best of friends ; but I'm 

sorry for you." 

*' Bother !" said Tom Long. "I wish I hadn't been such a 
fool. Why, whatever are they talking about ? " 

" I always knew he was a gentleman,'' said Sergeant Lund, 
authoritatively. " The way he could write out a despatch was 
something wonderful, that it was. Ha 1 I'm sorry he's gone I " 



"Tell you what," said old Dick, "its about my turn now 
What would some of you say if I was to turn out to be a mys- 
terious orphan, and be a skipper or an admiral ? " 

"That's quite right, my lads," said Bob Roberts, sharply. 
"Old Dick is a mysterious orphan, and if you open his shirt 
you'll find he's marked with a blue mermaid." 

" That's a true word," said old Dick, grinning. " But, Master 
Roberts, sir, don't you think you might pass your word for us to 
say a half dollar down there at the canteen ? What's just took 
place has been hard on our emotions, sir, and the consequence 
is as we are all werry dry." 

" I think you're more likely to turn out a fish, Dick ¡ª a shark, 
than anything else," said Bob. "But I don't mind. Will you 
be half. Tom ? " 

Tom Long nodded ; and the men went off laughing to the 
canteen, to drink the health of Frank Murray, late Private Gray, 
and ended by saying, through their mouthpiece, Dick, that, ¡ª 
"This here is a werry strange world." 



CHAPTER LXIIL 



THE LAST OF IT, 

There is not much more to say about the various people who 
formed the little world at the jungle station. 

Despatches were sent home, in which Major Sandars and 
Captain Horton dwelt most strongly upon the bravery of the 
young officers serving respectively beneath them. Captain 
Horton said so much respecting Bob Roberts, that poor Bob 
said he felt as red as a tomato ; while Tom Long, instead of be- 
coming what old Dick called more " stuck-upper " on reading of 
his bravery, seemed humbled and more frank and natural. 
Certainly he became better liked ; and at a dinner that was given 
after the country had settled, and Colonel Hanson and his force 
were about to return, that officer in a speech said that from what 
he had heard, Mr Midshipman Roberts and Mr Ensign Long 

would become ornaments of the services to which they be- 
longed. 

And so they did, and the truest of friends, when they did not 
quarrel, though really their squabbles only cemented their friend- 
ship the stronger. 

They both visited Mr and Mrs Frank Murray at their pretty 
bungalow at Perang, where Rachel was settled down so long as 
her father retained his post at the residency ; but their most en- 
joyable visits were, as years went by, to their friend the sultan, 
who was fast improving the country, and encouraging his people 
to become more commercial, in place of the arrant pirates they 
had been. For in a very short time in the settlement of the 
country under British protection, the rank of sultan had been 
offered to the Tumongong, who refused it in favour of his son 
All, and this was ratified by the Governor of the Straits ¡ª Sultan 
Hamet dying a victim to excess, and the piratical Rajah Gantang 
of his wounds. 

Which was, so said old Dick in confidence to the two young 
officers, "a blessing to ever^^body consamed, for that there Rajah 



Gantang was about the wussest nigger as ever suffered from the 

want of soap." 

The last the writer heard of Dick was, that he was the oldest 

boatswain in the service, and that he was on board that rapid 
gunboat the " Peregrine," commanded by Lieutenant Robert 
Roberts, R.N. 

It need only be added that Captain Smithers got over his dis- 
appointment, and cwo years later married Mary Sinclair, who 
makes him an excellent wife. So that none of those concerned 
had cause to regret the trip up the Malay river in H.M.S. 
^* Startler." 


