THE 


DWELLERS IN OUR GARDENS: 

THEIR LIVES AND WORKS.  



THE SLOW ONE—WHO STAYS 
MUCH AT HOME. 

HE dweller *in our gardens, 
whom we call the “ Slow 
One,” is, from his very slow 
and measured pace, not only 
easy to be seen when he 
happens to be abroad, but 
from his quiet and secluded 
habits can generally be found at home when he 
is wanted. Some people have described him as 
never going from home, and as carrying his house  

with him on his back at all times ; but we shall show 
that this is a wrong notion, and though by nature 
his body is provided with a comfortable and convenient 
covering, yet he requires a dwelling-place as well as 
other creatures. We shall find that he likes above all 
things a nice little retired nook to live in—shady, cool, 
and damp, under the shelter of leaves and branches, or 
on the shady side of a bank, or among stones or tree 
trunks—anywhere so that it is secluded, cool, and shady. 
Never, by any chance, is he to be seen taking a walk in 
the glare and warmth of the hot noon-day; but before 
the sun has risen, or not had time to mount up high in 
the heavens, and -when the early dew is still on the 
grass and every flower and leaf moist with it, the Slow 
One may be seen making his way as fast as he can 
crawl towards some juicy lettuce or cabbage leaves, or 
succulent young flowering plant or bed of seedlings, to 
eat his breakfast. There are other times, too, when he 
will venture forth from home ; as, for instance, when a 
shower of rain has just fallen, and made the ground soft 
and damp, and when every leaf and blade of grass is 
dripping with rain-drops, and the sun still hid behind 
rain-clouds—then he will ail at once unglue himself from 
his tree-trunk, stone, or wall, and raising up his shell, 
poke out his head and stretch out his one great foot, 
and first thrusting up his two tallest horns, and then 
putting out his two smaller ones—will glide forth with 
his usual slow, dignified, and not ungraceful pace, to take 
a second meal. 


 . 


O 

Learned people give the name of ‘ Helix aspersa’ to 
our slow friend. Helix, because that is the Latin for a coil 
or a screw, and describes the form of his outer covering 
or shell; and aspersa , because of the spottings and 
blotches of darker colour on the whorls or windings of 
it. From the softness of his body, the snail—whom, 
after all, we must call by his most common name some¬ 
times—belongs to the large class of animals which are 
called Molluscs or Mollusca, from the Latin word mollis , 
soft; and then he has another family name, made up of 
two Greek words, which describe his manner of crawling 
on his stomach as if it were a large foot, so that all 
molluscous animals who crawl in that manner, whether 
on land, or at the bottom of the sea on sea-weeds and 
rocks, are called gastero-poda , or stomach-footed. Like 
most other living creatures, the snail requires air for his 
support, as well as food. If we observe him closely as 
he is crawling abroad, we may perceive a round opening 
come every now and then under the edge of the shell at 
his right side. He is taking air into his lungs ; and air 
is as much needed for the growth of his body, and the 
continuance of his life, as with ourselves. As he eats, 
too, we can see that there is something which he can do 
quickly, like ourselves, since the rapid motion of his mouth 
as he munches his leaves is very perceptible, it being 
provided with a hard and toothed upper jaw. Let us 
notice, too, his delicate and flexible horns, at the tips of 
which are his round eyes, and admire the grace with 
which he bends them this way and that as he crawls, as . 


if to look about him. Small round knobs are these eyes 
of his, without lid or lash, so no wonder that he avoids 
the glare of bright sunshine. But instead of an eyelid to 
shut over them, how easily he can protect his organs of 
sight by drawing the eye with the whole horn into his 
head again at the approach of the slightest danger. With 
what delicate muscles must not this be effected within 
that slender horn ! He has the sense of smell—that we 
are sure of, from his detecting so far off his favourite 
food ; but we know not where are his organs of smell. 
Are they at the tips of the short horns nearer his mouth, 
and do these small knobs at their end act as noses or 
nostrils, or is there all over the body the power of per¬ 
ceiving in the air odoriferous particles, imperceptible to 
our sight and smell, which come from the plants he feeds 
on ? 

It seems to us when he gathers himself so completely 
up into his shell, and fastens himself so closely against 
some smooth surface after a meal, as if he then meant to 
sleep ; but we really know little about it, for it is quite 
certain that while he is so quiet and still something is 
going on very important to the Slow One. Of course he 
is growing all the time, like every other creature, 
nourished by the particular food which is suited to their 
natures; the food adding fresh material to the body, and 
the operation which we call digestion helping to change 
the food into the matter wanted for the building up of 
the body, or for repairing the waste of what is used up 
by the act of living ; and yet something else besides this 


 


goes on within the creature we are describing. As we 
grow our bones grow with us and help to give support 
and strength to our bodies, and make us what we are 
—strong and upright creatures, able to move about 
easily and with the soft fleshy parts of our limbs outside 
our hard bones. But with the soft-bodied race to which 
our garden friend belongs, the hard parts most often 
come outside. They answer the same purpose as bones 
in some respects, and serve to protect their tender 
bodies, especially those of the race who inhabit the sea, 
where they are constantly exposed to the buffeting of 
waves and the ebbings and flowings of tides. Like our 
bones, shells are principally composed of lime, but some¬ 
how it seems as if the animals who are covered with 
them had more to do with the making of them than we 
human creatures have to do with the growth of our 
bones. Their shells are made of matter which oozes out 
of their soft bodies—part lime and part a sort of animal 
glue, which hardens into the covering they want outside 
them. 

Our Slow One, therefore, seems to have something to 
do, while apparently idle or asleep, in building up the 
whorled shell which protects him. We have described 
the kind of dwelling places in our gardens that he gene¬ 
rally chooses for a home, and perhaps it is not far from 
such nooks that he may have been born. In a hole in 
the earth, half hid by a stone, perhaps, was dropped by 
its parent, one by one, a bunch of little white eggs, about 
the size of a small pea, and out of each of them in due 


  


 . 


time came a tiny soft creature, with already the beginning 

t 

of a shell upon its almost transparent body. The greater 
part of the body had a tendency from the first to grow in 
a spiral or twisting form, and the shell had the same 
tendency, or rather could not help doing so, as it grew 
in size with the growth of the small creature it was to 
cover and protect. The head could be freed at will 
from the shell envelope, and the foot on which it was to 
crawl, but the upper portion of the body was to be 
always attached to and covered by the shell; and as this 
part of the body grew and was always coiling round in its 
growth the shell too became spiral, and each whorl 
became larger than the one before, as it increased with 
the creature’s growth. 

Now the manner in which matter is constantly being 
added, so as to make the shell larger and larger, is a very 
curious affair. Almost all animals belonging to the soft- 
bodied race which are called Molluscs (or Mollusca), 
like the Helix of our gardens, have their bodies 
enveloped in a sort of loose skin, which has been called 
a mantle , because it wraps them round like a cloak or 
mantle. All sea molluscs, such as whelks and peri¬ 
winkles, as well as those which have shells composed of 
two parts, like oysters and mussels, have the same 
envelopes or mantles , and it is round the edges of them 
that are the small pores out of which oozes the matter 
which builds up the shell. It is thus at the edge of the 
opening or mouth of the shell that the fresh matter is con¬ 
stantly added, and it naturally follows the growth of the 


 . 


  


creature’s body. While it is in repose, the mantle comes 
up to the very edge of the shell’s mouth, and a fresh 
little layer of shelly matter is deposited. If we examine 
a shell with a magnifying glass, we can see how small 
furrows or ridges are left outside by these repeated addi¬ 
tions, and we may observe too that more of the animal 
matter comes to the outside, and, drying, makes a kind of 
brown skin, while within the shell it is almost wholly com¬ 
posed of lime, and is kept smooth and polished like marble. 
The glue-like matter may be seen plainly at the edge of 
a young snail’s shell projecting a little, like a film. The 
limey matter is added within it afterwards, making it serve 
as a mould. This same gluey matter, mixed, perhaps, 
with a little lime, seems to ooze out at all times from the 
body of the creature, and especially from his large 
stomach-foot as he crawls, leaving, as we know, a 
glistening white track behind him at all times; the 
same sticky matter being used for helping to fasten 
himself up against some object when at home. Thus it 
is that the shell always fits the growing creature—never 
too small or too large, or too tight or too loose, but 
always of the right size and form for covering the coiled- 
up part, and for packing the whole body into when 
needed. Which of us can say the same of any of our 
own clothing ? 

While we are examining the shell, of which we have 
so many specimens at all times in our gardens that we 
forget to admire them, let us notice that it is curiously 
marked by some addition of darker-coloured matter, 


  


 . 


which must have been poured out at certain parts of the 
mantle from time to time, and which following the 
windings of the shell end in making elegant bands of 
spots, or rather blotches, around it; and we may 
also observe that its whole form is most beautiful and 
symmetrical. The coils of the shell, as it has grown, are 
as regular and exact as if following some law or rule, as 
any object made by art. 



No clever artist or mechanic who might take out his 
ingenious tools, his compasses and rulers, and then 
sitting down, open out his learned books on geometry 
and other long-named sciences, and after studying them, 
might make trials and experiments, and calculate and re¬ 
calculate ; even then would not be able to design such 
graceful, pretty, and accurate coils as have been pro¬ 
duced by nature while our garden friend has been 
digesting all his life’s breakfasts ! But, after all, the secret 
of the shape of the shell and its regularity comes from 
the shape of the creature itself, which, if it were taken 
out of its shell and laid straight, would present the strange 
form of a very tall fool’s-cap, with its long foot and head 
at the bottom. The book about geometry would call it 
an “ elongated cone.” 


 . 


  


See ! what a strange figure our “ Slow One ” appears 
when divested of his elegantly formed and close-fitting 
shell garment, and stretched out to his real length ! 
When we cut in half the empty shell of a snail, we shall 
also see how much more delicate and thin were the first 
whorls of it, when the animal was young, 
compared to the very last whorl—the 
body as it grew requiring a thicker and 
thicker covering, while the point of the 
tall cone in our figure shows where was 
the beginning of the coiling, which now 
forms the apex or top of the spire of 
the shell. 

And now let us ask what happens 
when the gardener gets rather savage at 
finding some of his choice lettuces or 
delicate seedlings nearly eaten up one 
morning, and then takes the trouble to 
trace the offender back to his 
hiding place by his silvery 
track? What happens if he 
should ruthlessly tear him from 

his home, and intending to throw him over the garden 
wall fail to do so, and our friend, striking against the top¬ 
most brick of the wall, receives a violent blow, and falling 
down behind some tree is not killed, but stunned, while his 
shell is all crushed and broken—all his life’s work, it would 
seem at first, quite spoiled. The broken edges of shell 
forced in against his tender body, and a piece of shell 











IO 


 . 


gone, so that there, at the back of the last whorl is now 
a terrible hole, letting in the air, and making him feel 
dreadfully uncomfortable, besides altogether spoiling his 
whole appearance. Perhaps he recovers gradually from 
the shock—waits for nightfall, and then crawls home thus 
wounded and maimed; but we rather fancy that he stays 
where he is, fastens himself to the wall which has so 
cruelly injured him, and then and there mends himself! 
No surgeon wanted for him—no bandages needed, or 
forceps, or lancet. Friend Helix repairs his own shell. 
He keeps quite still, oozes out more limey and gluey 
matter just where it is wanted (for it would seem as if the 
whole of that envelope called the mantle can produce or 
secrete shell), and the matter dries and hardens; all is 
comfortable once more, and bye-and-bye he can, if he 
like, crawl home to his old nook again. Should you 
meet with him after this dreadful catastrophe, and exa¬ 
mine the traces of the accident, you can just see where 
the shell patch has been put in, but that is all, for it is 
very cleverly done. 

But the gardener is not the only enemy which the snail 
has to dread, since many birds feed on slugs and snails, 
the shells of the latter, be they ever so strong, not always 
protecting them from some of the larger birds. We may 
see even on our garden paths, near some particularly 
large stone which is embedded in the gravel, fragments 
of snail shell, where some thrush or starling has carried a 
snail to knock and crush its shell against the hard surface, 
leaving not a particle of its soft body after the meal; and 


 . II 

we have noticed frequently around some particularly 
large stone on the surface of a common, a circle of frag¬ 
ments of snail shell, showing where birds have often used 
the stone in preparing their dinners; so that the snail, while 
nourishing his own body with his natural vegetable food, 
supplies to other animals their natural food—just as the 
grass-eating sheep furnishes food for mutton-eating men. 
It is to be so, by a law of nature, and we need not look 
upon it as a terrible or cruel law, but rather one to be 
reverenced and obeyed, though we should try at all times, 
and above all things, to respect and spare life as much 
as it is possible. 

We have said that ‘ Helix aspersa ; likes coolness and 
damp and dislikes warmth, but it is also true that he 
avoids the cold of winter and spends that season in a 
kind of stupor or sleep, taking no food, and never un¬ 
fastening himself from the smooth surface of bark or wall 
or stone to which his shell is attached; and besides 
glueing himself round the edge of his shell to such a 
surface, he also covers the mouth of the shell inside with 
a thin coating of shelly matter, and withdraws still 
farther back into his largest whorl. Perhaps for the sake 
of getting a little warmth from each other, a number of 
his family, on the coming on of cold weather, will fasten 
themselves to the shells of each other, the mouth of one 
shell being made to adhere to the back of the last whorl 
of another until a large ball is formed. What a curious 
sight must it be, when, on some mild, damp morning in 
early spring, the whole assembly of Slow Ones awake from 


    


 . 


their winter sleep, and unpacking themselves from their 
ball, crawl off, each his way, to break his long fast! 

‘ Helix aspersa ’ has many relations—some of them 
very like himself, and others only distant cousins, though 
all have several very striking points of resemblance. 



Helix nemoralis. 


‘ Helix nemoralis,’ for instance (whose name means 
‘ of the woods ’), who is of a more delicate and 
refined nature, also lives ^sometimes in our gardens, 
where disdaining such common fare as lettuce or 
cabbage leaves, he selects the tender foliage of the 
grape vine for his diet, while, as his name betokens, he 
is also to be found in country hedges, and among the 
moss about the trunks of trees. It is no doubt from the 
delicacy of his food that his shell is more fine in texture, 
.and of a pale yellow or straw colour, elegantly banded 
with brown. 



Helix iiortensis. 


Another, called ‘Helix hortensis’ (or ‘of the garden’), 
may also be found in some of our gardens, and 


 . 


     


is to be distinguished from ‘ nemoralis ’ by a greater 
number of stripes around the shell, which is finished off 
with a pretty rim at the mouth, while the graceful and 
almost transparent body shows that the creature lives on 
delicate leaves and fruit. ‘Helix arbustorum,’ or the shrub- 
snail., is also found in some country gardens, especially 
where there are shrubberies and plantations of young- 
trees; and where gardens happen to have ponds in them, 
in which chickweed grows on the surface, or which 
have other fresh-water plants growing in the mud at the 



Helix arbustorum. 

bottom—such as the pretty water ranunculus, which, 
while it has its roots in the mud, and fennel-like foliage 
under the water, sends up to float on the surface its 
delicate white blossoms and round glossy leaves. When 
this happens, we may be sure to find many shell- 
covered molluscous animals feeding on these plants 
which are near relations to the Helix. The  Lymnea 
stagnalis,’ for instance, is sure to be there, clinging to 
the stalks or leaves, or swimming on the surface of the 
water, the bottom of his foot serving as a kind of float, 
while his shell and body hang downwards. The shell.  


of this water-snail is more spiral than the land shells, 
while in another variety of fresh-water snails often found 



Lymnea stagnalis. 


in ponds, called the    Planorbis ’ (which name means 
‘fiat-round''), the whorls of the shell are wound round 
like a flat coil of rope. In all these creatures the 
cone-shaped part of' the body gets its shell covering, 
while the head and foot can also be drawn at times into 
it for protection and shelter. 



Planorbis corneus. Planorbis contortus. 

Perhaps the Helix thinks the slug or Limax but a sort 
of poor relation, and of a very inferior nature to himself, 



 


crawling about as he does with his long, dark, slimy body 
unprotected by any shell. One of his brother slugs, to 
be sure, does bear upon his back a flat piece of shell, like 
a shield, but this one is of a still coarser nature, and 
instead of feeding on vegetables like his brethren and 
cousins, likes nothing so much as flies and beetles for his 
daily fare. 

And now to return to ‘ Helix aspersa,’ whose life is 
spent in our gardens, and whose manner of life we have 
described, we have only left to tell that his shell building- 
goes on until his body has attained its full size, and then 
it seems as if he meant to take a little rest, or in other 
words when he stops growing no larger shell is required 
for him. When this time comes, he completes his 
shell with a sort of moulding or cornice round the mouth 
of it, as if to give it a finish and make it strong, and 
having done this—if the gardener and the birds will let 
him—lives on to the natural end of his quiet and secluded 
life. And must not we who have been laying bare and 
looking into some of the secrets of that quiet life, feel 
after so examining into his nature and ways more respect 
than we have hitherto been accustomed to feel for a 
creature so often seen and so contemptuously spoken of ? 
—and who yet, after all, is gifted with some of the same 
senses as ourselves—sight, smell, taste—so that we per¬ 
ceive that it has been intended that he too should enjoy 
life, and that even when he is doing us the greatest 
mischief that he can, is, after all, but living according to 
the nature eiven to him ; while if we are at all inclined 


 

to doubt whether he values his life, and in common 
with all other living creatures, has had given to him a 
desire to preserve it, together with some power of pro¬ 
tecting it from danger, we may 


“Give but his horns the slightest touch, 
His self-collecting power is such 
He shrinks into his ‘ shell ’ with much 
Displeasure.” 







 IT. 

THE SPINNER AND WEAVER. 


OR a greater part of the year, espe¬ 
cially during the late autumn months, 
there are to be seen suspended in 
our gardens, among the boughs of 
trees and shrubs, or in the angles of 
gates or doorways, samples of the 
beautiful workmanship of the clever 
Spinner and Weaver, who is sure to 
live there. When the morning sun 
happens to fall on the delicate fabrics, making 
them glisten like spun glass or silver, or when the dew 
has left tiny beads upon them which reflect all the 
colours of the rainbow, or when some early morning 
frost late in autumn has frozen the dew-drops so that 
the whole looks as if carved out of ivory, then it is that 
the texture of these elegant hangings is most easily seen, 
and their wonderful workmanship shown to the greatest 
advantage. But though we may admire them very much, 
we know full well that they are not hung there to adorn 
our gardens and excite our admiration, but are constructed 
to serve a very important purpose in the life of the 



c 



     . 

Spinner and Weaver. For though we may pretend to 
describe them as tapestry hangings, or even call them 
webs, they are, after all, nothing more or less than nets — 
wheel-shaped nets, with which the makers of them catch 
the prey on which they live, and which is their natural 
food. We should not look far before finding in the 
centre of one of these nets the maker of it sitting 
patiently awaiting its prey. If the net is a particularly 
large one, we may be sure that the spinner and weaver 
of it is also large, and yet its size, in proportion to the 
circumference of the net, is just as if some human weaver 
had woven a round carpet or rug, whose measurement 
across from one side to the other was twenty or even 
thirty times the length of his own body ; and we may 
remember, too, that the human weaver would be sure to 
have a frame and some sort of machinery to weave his 
web with, while our garden weaver has nothing but his 
own limbs with which to measure and fasten the warp 
and the woof of his web, and, moreover, has been the 
spinner of the thread himself with which it is woven. 
All this—together with the wonderful accuracy and regu¬ 
larity of the workmanship, and other circumstances which 
we shall have to relate, causes the Spinners and Weavers 
who live in our gardens to be considered the very 
deverest of all the creatures who dwell there. They 
have more of what looks like mind or reason, and some¬ 
thing which seems to pass beyond what we are accus¬ 
tomed to call “ the instinct of animals,” and seems to 
show that they can plan, and project, and measure, and 


 . 


    


calculate in making their nets, and then end with 
displaying great dexterity and cunning (as we shall see) 
in capturing and securing their prey. 

And now we must tell a story about the name of the 

Spinner and Weaver, which was given to his ancestors 

very long ago. There was, it is said, a young Greek 

girl called Arachne, the daughter of a dyer who lived in 

Ionia, who was greatly renowned for her spinning and 

weaving—her father very likely dyeing the wool and flax 

and silk with bright colours, which his daughter after- 

<# 

wards spun and wove. At last the renown which 
Arachne gained for her workmanship made her very vain 
and presumptuous, so that she at length ventured to 
challenge the goddess Minerva to a trial of skill with her. 
Now Minerva happened not only to be the goddess of 
wisdom, but was also the patroness and inventress of all 
sorts of needlework as well as of spinning and weaving, 
and, as might be supposed, was very clever herself, so 
that when she tried her skill with Arachne the latter was 
beaten. So mortified and ashamed was then Arachne 
at this defeat, that she went and hanged herself on a tree 
in her despair, and the goddess in pity at her fate 
changed her into a spider, in which form she was still to 
go on spinning and weaving. 

We thus see how it was that the Spinner and Weaver 
of our gardens was first called Arachne by the Greeks, 
and why his descendants are now called Arachnidce; 
but it may be that this story was invented very long ago 
to account for the cleverness of all the family in spinning 

. 


and weaving, and that the Greeks were so proud of the 
skill of men, that when they saw a tiny creature able to 
spin fine and delicate threads and weave them into beau¬ 
tiful webs, they said in their pride that it could not have 
been so clever if it had not once been a human being, 
and thus they invented the story of Arachne. 

But truth is much more wonderful than any stories, 
and ought to be more interesting to us, so putting all 
such aside, we will see how we can describe the wonder¬ 
fully formed body and still more wonderful powers and 
curious ways and manner of life of the spider, a creature 
whom we all see so often without seeing well, and whom 
instead of admiring for the patient industry with which it 
exercises its skill for the gain of its livelihood and the 
care of its offspring, are too apt to consider in the light 
of a nuisance, all because of those webs of theirs. Do 
they not hang them in the corners of our rooms where 
they catch the dust and look most unseemly, and across 
our window panes where they obstruct the view, and 
from bush to bush in our gardens, so that they come 
across our faces and get entangled in our hair as we pass 
down our paths ? They plague and annoy us, and we 
brush them away with impatience and disgust, and yet 
when we observe these webs and their weavers more 
carefully, and read and learn all that has been observed 
and discovered about them by others, we find that we 
might perhaps spend a life-time in watching and 
examining them, and yet not be able to discover all that 
is puzzling and difficult to understand in the webs them- 


 


selves, and in the lives and ways of the creatures who 
weave them. 

And to begin with the curiously formed body of the 
spider, all the parts of which can only be seen with the 
help of powerful magnifying glasses and microscopes. 
There are, of course, many kinds of spiders, but we will 
confine our description to those we have the best oppor¬ 
tunity of seeing, and more especially to the one who 
generally lives in our gardens and is best known to us. 
We all have seen its round body—round as a nut; its 
head and eight slender, many-jointed legs, with which it 
runs to and fro upon the threads of its web with the 
grace and agility of a rope-dancer, and which perform 
the part of arms as well as legs, as their owner weaves 
its web and captures its prey. We must use the 
microscope to find out the other parts of the body, such 
as the eight eyes placed on the top of the head ; the 
strong pincers on each side of the mouth, which are not 
unlike the claws of a lobster, and are used as weapons 
in seizing and devouring its prey; and, lastly, the 
spinnerets beneath the body—a number of small bags of 
gluey matter, covered with thousands of minute hairs, 
which are really little tubes, out of which the creature 
squeezes the material for its thread, and which issuing 
from its body like an exceedingly fine spray or shower 
of liquid, becomes dry and firm and elastic on coming 
in contact with the air, and unites together, forming 
one fine thread, which we can just see without the 
help of a magnifying glass. We know that thou


sands of fine fibres of hemp make up a strong rope, and 
that it is all the stronger for being made up of many such 
fine threads or strands, and so it is with the spider’s 



transparent rope, which holds together so wonderfully as 
long lines of it are hung from tree to tree and from 
shrub to shrub, and when it is carried round and round 
to form one of the wheel-like webs. The microscope 



shews us the curioits claws at the ends of its fore-legs, 
with which it adjusts the thread as it spins it, and 
which it uses to hold its prey as it binds it round with 


  Spinneret of Spider from a magnified Photograph. 


 . 


bandages of web-thread to secure it. All these parts of 
its body—the eyes, - claws, pincers, flexible legs, and 
spinnerets—supply the small creature with just the instru¬ 
ments wanted for the exercise of its powers. The eight 
eyes help it to see its prey, and escape from danger itself 
in case any bird should attempt to capture it. The 
spinnerets produce all that it wants when the curious 
sense within it which we call instinct sets it to work to 
spread its fly-nets, which hang in the corners of our 
neglected rooms and among the shrubs and trees of our 
garden. The strong pincers, called mandibles , at the 
front of its head, which enable it to clasp its prey, are 
also furnished with little reservoirs of poison, with which 
it can stupify or kill a fly that is too strong for it to 
overcome. 



Head of Spider. 


We wonder at the regularity of the spider’s web and at 
the accuracy with which all the circular threads are kept 


"Aperture by which the poison issues.


exactly the same distance apart, and if we watch it when 
weaving we shall see that one fore-leg is employed to 
guide the thread and keep it just the right distance from 
the last thread woven, acting as one of the legs of a pair 
of compasses and a lady’s crotchet needle at the same 
time. It is a curious fact about these spider’s webs that 
they are made of two kinds of thread, spun, it is sup¬ 
posed, from different spinnerets. The thread used for 
the spokes of the wheel, or warp of the web, is a fine 
elastic, glossy thread, dry to the touch, but the thread 
with which the spider makes its circular woof comes from 
the body sticky and gummy, little globules of gum being 
visible (when magnified) along the thread like tiny beads 
—at intervals. 

With this supply of gummy matter, the thread, when 
laid along the spokes, adheres to them, and never seems 
to get detached, and it is likely that the stickiness of it 
helps also to catch and entangle the flies. The spider is very 
careful to keep its web free from dust or dirt, and can be 
seen going over it, very carefully dusting it with its hairy 
feet, like a diligent housemaid. Should by any chance a 
leaf or bit of straw, or chip of wood, fall upon its web 
and get entangled in its meshes, it will instantly issue 
from its private apartment up in the corner, where it is 
accustomed to sit as in a watch-tower, and coming down 
to the intruding object, will carefully disentangle it from 
the web, so as to let it fall to the ground, without a single 
thread being broken or displaced, while if we had tried 


  


to extricate the same object, our clumsy fingers might 
perhaps have caused a large rent iff the web. Very cu¬ 
rious, too, is the manner in which a spider, when a fly is 
once caught, will pack its wings around it, and bandage 
them up with web thread, so as to quite prevent the 
possibility of their being used for escaping. In every 
case the spider, in capturing its prey, stupifies it with a 
drop from its poison bag, and when thus rendered help¬ 
less and insensible, it drags its victim behind it with a 
short thread fastened to it, as a sailor would a boat with 
a towing rope, and thus hauls it into its larder, which is 
always some corner from which it can watch its web. 
Even a butterfly, eight or nine times the captor’s size, 
will be rolled up in its own wings and rendered as shape¬ 
less as an Egyptian mummy, in order to be portable and 
compact enough for being stowed away for future con¬ 
sumption. One thing is very certain, that a spider must 
eat if it would keep up its stock of material for web 
spinning, since that results from the digestion of its food, 
as does the shell of the snail and the silk of the cater¬ 
pillar. A good meal up in its larder is needed for 
supplying its spinnerets with the matter which forms the 
thread spun from them. The spider must feast one day 
in order that on some future day, in case its web should 
be destroyed by any accident, it may be able to begin its 
work over again. We can easily see spiders catch and 
dispose of their prey, but it is not so easy to detect all 
their methods of web making, and especially how it is 
that they are able to extend long lines of web-thread 


   


 . 


from objects at considerable distances one from another. 
It would seem as if Spiders meant to keep some of their 
doings a secret from us, since they usually construct their 
webs and stretch out their long lines either late in the 
evening or very early in the morning. If we pass down 
a garden path after twilight has come on, we may find a 
spider’s line of web come across our face, where we had 
met no such annoyance in the bright daylight, and as we 
walk in the garden in the early morning we may observe 
that many a line has been extended from bushes wide 
apart from each other, and may puzzle ourselves to think 
how these delicate suspension bridges have been formed. 
We may even ask ourselves if the spider, when it wants 
to have a line carried to some particular point at a 
distance, can manage to make friends with some bee or 
butterfly, and get him to carry it across for it as he flies ; 
but no ! we may be certain that the creature has some 
power of its own which enables it to overcome the diffi¬ 
culty. Now all who have studied the ways of spiders are 
agreed in saying that they have the power of ejecting 
their web-thread from their spinnerets to a distance, and 
have fancied that the lines of cobweb we find in our 
gardens have been first sent out by the spiders, and then 
floating on the air have caught to objects and have then 
been used as bridges, and strengthened by additional 
matter by the spiders as they passed along them. This 
may sometimes be the case, but it is also certain that to 
serve its purpose lines are often attached by the spider 
intentio?ially to particular spots or objects at a distance, 


 


and that it means to have them fastened there and no¬ 
where else, so that we are obliged to suppose that a 
spider can send forth a line of web with such force from 
its body that it will adhere to a distant object, or that, 
trusting itself to be supported and carried by a current 
of air, it can dart across to some spot, after first fastening 
a line to the place from which it starts, and then length¬ 
ening and spinning it out as it goes. 

We have seen both these feats performed by some tiny 
house spiders which we had only just extricated from the 
cocoon in which they were hatched. They had been 
laid on a book and then placed on a mantel-piece; and 
before many minutes had elapsed after their entrance 
upon life, they sent up lines of the finest web from their 
spinnerets to the edge of a vase about ten inches high, 
which happened to be near them—first ejecting the line, 
and then travelling up it and carrying a second line with 
them, and coming back with a third, and so on; up and 
down the little creatures working, until a beautiful band 
of silvery web was formed between the book and vase, 
and then they seemed to rest from their labours and wait 
for prey. There were, however, no flies to be caught, so 
that by-and-by, when the door of the room was opened 
and a current of air set in towards the fire-place, the 
spiders one after another moored themselves to the edge 
of the vase, and launching themselves forth into the air 
like little kites, and lengthening their lines as they went, 
mounted to the ceiling. There it was they knew they 
must weave their webs if they meant to catch flies. 


These new-born spiders were only one-tenth of an inch 
in length, and the length of the web-lines sent up to the 
edge of the vase being quite ten inches long, it proved 
their power of ejecting lines ioo times the length of 
their own bodies, and of fastening them where they wish. 

In every case a spider glues the end of a line that he 
attaches to an object by pressing its spinneret against 
it, and such fastenings when they are magnified show us 
the numerous finer threads of which the lines are com¬ 
posed. 



After we have explained as much as we can about the 
methods of spiders in forming their webs, there is much 
to be discovered by any who may observe them carefully 
at their work, and it is when we make observations for 
ourselves in the ways of such creatures as the usually 
despised spider, that they become to us a source of in¬ 
terest and pleasure. We therefore recommend our readers 
to try to get a sight of a spider in the act of weaving its 
web some damp early morning in autumn, when it is 
about to hang it in an angle of a garden wall, or across 
the corner of a doorway, or between two shrubs. In 
every instance it will be found that an angle is wanted, 
within which the wheel is constructed, so that in the case 
of hanging a web between two shrubs, two long lines are 
first ejected, forming an angle and serving as a frame for 


it. They may then find out for themselves how the 
spinner and weaver manages to get these spokes of his 
wheel cross so exactly in the centre, and be stretched 
from point to point so firmly and yet so lightly, and see 
how cleverly as he runs round with his line he manages 
to keep it at such accurate distances apart, by letting it 
pass over the claw at the end of an outstretched leg, and 
how each time the circular line crosses one of the spokes 
it adheres to it—all this and much more may be seen by 
those who give sufficient attention to the ways and doings 
of spiders, and pay respect to the wonderful powers with 
which their Creator has. gifted them. When we cease to 
think of a spider only as an annoyance or a nuisance, 
perhaps then the clever creature will allow us to dis¬ 
cover some of its hitherto undivulged secrets. 

Some of the ingenious methods of the female spider 
for preserving her offspring have already been discovered, 
and are most curious. The time comes in her life 
when she wants to lay her eggs, and of these she lays an 
immense quantity, so that her race may be kept up, in 
spite of the numbers eaten by birds and other larger 
creatures, and for this reason the eggs are to be taken 
great care of, until the germ of life in each shall be ready 
to unfold itself into a young spider—or, in other words, 
we may say that the mother spider takes care to place 
her eggs in a place of safety until they are hatched. Will 
it be thought that we are inventing, when we say that the 
careful creature contrives to provide an egg-cup for holding 
her eggs in before she lays them, and that her body is  

famished with a tiny egg-spoon , with which she places 
each egg in its place ? Such, however, is the fact. We 
know that at all times the spider has within her body an 
abundant supply of the material for spinning her fine 
elastic thread, so that when she requires a nice little cup 
or basket for her eggs she has only to spin thread and then 
to weave it. Choosing some sheltered nook for her opera¬ 
tions, she begins the construction of her nest by weaving 
the bottom just as a bird constructs first of all the bottom 
of his nest, and the basket-maker the bottom of his 
basket The spider, while sending out the silken thread 
from her spinnerets, has only to move her body round 
and round, and a nice little mat is formed of the sticky 
web-thread, and then making her round body serve as a 
kind of mould for the nest, she goes on spinning and 
turning round as she spins until sides to the cup are 
raised high enough to hold safely a number of eggs. 
This done, the eggs are laid, each one being carefully 
placed with the help of the kind of spatula , or flat spoon, 
which is attached to the end of her body. This instru¬ 
ment is often called an ovipositor or egg-placer, and in 
some insects is very long, but the spider does not want 
a long one. When the cup is even full to the brim with 
eggs, she still goes on piling them up until as many are 
above the edge as are within the cup, and then com¬ 
mences the weaving of a cover to the egg-cup, and lastly 
she encloses the whole in an envelope of fine web closely 
woven around it, until it becomes like a soft ball of 
silken floss, of a pale yellow, within which the numerous  

eggs are kept dry and warm through the winter. In such 
cocoons may be seen in spring the young spiders already 
hatched at one end and the empty egg shells at the 
other, the former waiting perhaps for suitable weather 
for coming forth and entering on the business of spider 
life; and when not larger than a mustard seed young 
garden spiders will set about weaving tiny wheel-shaped 
webs for the capture of flies still smaller than themselves. 
After laying their eggs, some species of mother spiders 
have no more to do with their young; but others seem 
never to lose sight of their ball of eggs until the young 
ones are hatched, and if they have to change their place 
of abode will carry it about with them; and some others 
seem to take care of and feed their young ones after they 
are hatched, and will let them climb on their backs to 
escape from danger. 

The manner, too, in which some species of garden 
spiders entrap and capture their prey is quite different 
from the one which makes a wheel-shaped web, or from 
the house spider who hangs its gauzy web across the 
comers of our rooms, which are invisible to us until the 
dust settling on them makes them look like dirty bits of 
rag. Some, who are dwellers in our garden, construct 
for themselves long tubes of close-woven web among 
bushy shrubs, spread out wide at the top like a trumpet, 
and carefully secured by lines to the leaves and twigs. 
At the bottom of this, the spider lives watching and 
waiting until some unhappy fly gets entangled up above. 
A sort of vibration passes down the long passage from 


  


the struggles of the fly to escape, when quicker than a 
railway train can dash through a tunnel, the spider darts 
up to seize its prisoners. Other kinds of spiders in our 
gardens live in holes and crannies in walls and trees, 
which they line with web, and only dart out on their 
prey when they come near the mouths of their dens. 
These creatures, called Tegenaria, are very fierce, and 
have very long legs in proportion to the size of their 
bodies, so that one of the kind goes by the name of 
Daddy-long-legs, and is known to most of us by those 
long and graceful legs. It is sometimes said that spiders 
will kill and eat each other, but we like to believe that 
in such cases the victims are captured in honourable 
warfare. A spider, for instance, has been seen to invade 
the web of another, and seat himself in the centre, try¬ 
ing to appropriate it to his own use, and the real owner 
has come out—as if in the defence of his castle—fight 
and wrestle with the intruder, and after killing him, eat 
him up as if he were a fly. It is also said that the female 
spider will sometimes kill and eat a male spider when 
she does not take a fancy to him—the female being 
much larger and stronger than the male—but we are not 
sure of the truth of such stories, though we are afraid 
that our clever Spinner and Weaver has after all a good 
deal of the nature of a beast of prey. In tropical 
countries species of spiders are found which are nearly 
as large as small birds. The bodies of some are covered 
with soft and glossy brown fur, like the sealskin we* use 
for jackets and gloves. Some of them live in holes in 


 . 


   


the ground, which they line with web and protect with 
a trap door, which opens and shuts with a hinge ; others, 
such as the great Mygale spider, which is not unlike a 
hairy crab, makes its nest in the cavities in the trunks of 
trees, and is said by travellers to prey on newly-hatched 
birds, and even to capture and eat the lovely humming¬ 
birds which flit among the leaves and blossoms, and are 
scarcely larger than itself. Spiders are so often called 
insects that we are apt to forget that they cannot be 
classed with bees, butterflies, and beetles for several 
reasons, but form quite a separate race of creatures. 
The structure of their bodies is unlike in many important 
particulars, and they do not pass through the same 
changes as do all insects, as we shall describe in our next 
 A spider is, in fact, a nearer relation to crabs 
and lobsters than to bees and butterflies. As the spider 
grows larger and larger, it casts its skin many times, and 
each time a new one is ready formed beneath. From 
being at first scarcely so large as a grain of mustard 
seed, the maker of the wheel-shaped webs in our gardens 
sometimes grows to be as large as a small nut. It has 
had the grand name of ‘Epeira diadema’given to it, and 
a grand creature it really seems when grown to its full 
size, as it sits in the centre of its splendid web and 
allows us to examine its form. We see that its back is 
most curiously mottled and spotted with white and 
black, and that it has something like a white cross on 
the top of the back. With an ordinary hand magnifying 
glass we can see the eight bright eyes which form a  


kind of diadem upon the head, and which have given 

the creature its second name. We may also contrive to 

_ _ see under its body the bunch of sfiinne- 

_ rets, from which comes forth the web 

<§> ® (§> ,@> 


material through the fine hair-like tubes 
which are called spinner ides, and can just detect the 
claws at the ends of the legs, which are such useful 


implements in the adjustment of the circular lines of the 
web, or in hauling itself up again after having dropped 
down from a height. Seeing thus its curious body, and 
having learned something of the wonderful powers which 
have been bestowed upon them, we can surely never 
look upon the Spinner and Weaver of our gardens with 
either dislike or contempt, for according to the life that 
was meant to be his, are after all, his seemingly cruel 


ways, as well as his clever works This life begins 
when a little worm furnished with 
sixteen legs comes forth from an egg 
just large enough to hold it, and the 
whole life is spent in feeding on 
the leaves of the plant upon which 
that egg was laid. From being scarcely visible when 
first hatched, the small creature, as it eats, grows so 
rapidly that in twenty-four hours it has increased to 
four times its size when it first left the egg, and it is 
soon large enough for us to see its form and parts. We 
can see that six of its legs are for crawling with, and are 




placed under the fore part of the body, while the other 
ten are only for clasping the leaf on which it feeds, or 
the stems of the plant on which it crawls. It has a 
horny covering on its head, jaws for biting, eyes for 
seeing, and spiracles , or breathing holes, down each side 

D   



















    . 

of its body. Its skin is soft, and adorned with delicate 
stripes or spots—sometimes it has fleshy spines, sometimes 
it is hairy, and sometimes the whole body is covered with 
dark brown fur. As it eats and grows larger and larger, it 
requires a new skin to fit its increased size, the old one 
shrivelling up, and the new one appearing beneath. 
Many times in the course of its life is this done, and 
then, having grown to its full size, and as if tired of this 
mode of life, it crawls down the stem of the plant on 
which it has fed, makes its way to some wall, or paling, 
or tree-trunk, and climbs up it to some sheltered cranny 
or corner, there to await a complete change in its form 
and life. At this time the creature begins to exercise in 
a new way the power it has always had of producing 
from its body a silken thread, by which it could let itself 
down from a leaf or twig at will. It now spins fine 
cables of this silk with which to fasten itself in safety to 
the resting-place it has chosen. Unlike the spider, this 
silken thread is spun from its head, and managing 
to pass a belt of it round its body, it fastens the ends of it 
to the wall or paling, or to some twig in a sheltered place, 
so that it cannot be blown off, and with another thread 
suspends itself head downwards. Other creatures of 
its race fasten themselves to the stem, or roll themselves 
up in a leaf of the plants on which they feed, by means 
of these silken threads, so as to make a little cradle or 
nest: others weave together some of the smaller leaves 
of their native plants, and make a sort of cage with web, 
in which they suspend themselves. Others will fasten  


together the ends of some blades of grass, so as to form 
a little tent, in the middle of which they hang themselves 
by a silken thread—all these preparations being made for 
the creature passing through a change in its form and 
nature, and ceasing to be what we call a caterpillar. 

LIFE THE SECOND.—During this life the soft 
body has acquired a hard skin or case. It is mostly 
dark or shapeless. It no longer eats or moves from its 
place. It has neither eyes nor mouth, for it has no need 
of either, nor has it any feet or claws, 
and the only sign of life it gives is that 
of being able to bend slightly its horny 
case or shell, which at the tail is jointed 
like that of a lobster. It is mostly brown 
or bronze colour, but it has sometimes golden stripes 
upon it, or is wholly gold coloured. Now the Greek 
word for gold is chrusos , and from this it has come that 
the name of chrysalis has been given to this stage 
of the creature’s life, which when it crawled about 
and ate, was called a caterpillar. A pitiable sort 
of life would it be if chrysalis-life were all—but better 
times await it. We have said that the chrysalis is 
shapeless, but if we examine it more closely we shall find 
that in the curious angular body slight traces of parts are 
visible. They show that there is something carefully 
packed and folded up within the case—something which 
is soon to be unpacked and unfolded. Only a little more 
time and a little more warmth, and the changes which 



   


 . 


are going on within the brown or golden case are com¬ 
pleted, and another form of life begins. 

LIFE THE THIRD.—The summer’s hot sun shines 
day after day on the little mummies upon the garden 
wall or paling, or which hang in the tents or little bowers 
formed of the tender leaves or twigs of plants. It has 
ripened, and brought to its most perfect form the life 
now about to begin. The hard and brittle case which 
was its second form splits open like a ripe seed vessel, 
and from it comes out the bright and graceful creature 



we call a butterfly. A creature gifted with eyes to see 
with, antennae to feel with, proboscis to feed itself with, 
legs to crawl with, and four light and lovely wings to fly 
with. When first it comes forth from the coffin-like case 
which held it, the delicate wings are crumpled up and 
shapeless, covered with the damp of its late tomb ; but 
no sooner is it in the soft warm air and free, than the 
life-juices begin to circulate in its veins, and gradually 
the wings are straightened out and spread. From time 
to time a sort of shiver seems to run through the frame 
as this comes about. The long trunk which lay along 
the under part of the body is drawn up, and gently coiled 


 . 


   


into the place for it under the head. It seems but a fine 
thread this proboscis, but it is really a tube, for hence¬ 
forth the life of the creature is to be supported, not by 
eating the leaves of plants, but by sucking up through 
that long tube the honey of flowers. At last the wings 
are expanded to their full size and form. Their delicate 
veinings and pretty markings are to be seen. White or 
yellow, with black spots and veins—red bands—orange 
tips—patches of brown velvet—borders of brilliant blue 
—scolloped edges and slender points and angles—all 
the beautiful varieties of pattern, colour, and outline, 
according to their kind, are visible. A gentle trembling 
seems to shake the wings, as if the creature were im¬ 
patient for flight; and then a flutter, and at last it 
suddenly mounts into the air, and is gone ! gone to 
enjoy the warm sunshine, the soft air, the enticing flower 
scents, and delicious and delicately-flavoured nectar, now 
out of this flower and now out of that—honeysuckle, 
rose, jasmine—through the live-long day. 

The coming forth of the bright winged butterfly from 
the seemingly lifeless chrysalis has often been looked 
upon as a likeness to the spirit of a human being leaving 
the body at the moment of death; but though the 
manner in which the life of this and every other insect 
passes through such curious changes, is most wonderful 
and most mysterious to us, it does not really help to 
strengthen our hope of an immortal life, since the chry¬ 
salis is not dead, and the butterfly only lives to lay its 
eggs and then die. The ancient Greeks, however, looked . 


upon the butterfly as a type or emblem of the soul, and 
gave it the name of Psyche, which was the Greek word 
for soul or spirit, and at last the emblem of the soul came 
to be represented by them, in painting and sculpture, as 
a beautiful young female with the wings of a butterfly. 



PlERIS BRASSIC/E, OR CABBAGE BUTTERFLY. 


Among the many butterflies which flit about our 
gardens during spring, summer, and autumn, there is not 
one which is so sure to be a dweller there as the species 
whose common English name is the    Cabbage Butter¬ 
fly.’ Few gardens are there which do not grow cabbages, 
and this creature may be said to be born and bred upon 
cabbage leaves. The strange foreknowledge which we 
call instinct, led the parent butterfly to deposit her eggs 
on the large and succulent cabbage leaves, which, when 
they are hatched, are sure to afford ample food for the 
caterpillar through the whole of its life. It need never 
leave the plant. When one leaf is eaten up all but the 











 . A I 

veins, it has only to move to another, and then go on 
munching again with its horny jaws, which, for the con¬ 
venience of leaf eating, do not move up and down, but 
backwards and forwards sideways, like pincers or shears. 
The egg out of which the caterpillar 
comes is seen when highly magnified 
to be of a most beautiful form, some¬ 
what like a flask or bottle, delicately 
carved with ribs and furrows and 
fretwork. The caterpillar when full- 
grown is a blueish grey colour, with yellow stripes on 
each side, and the whole body is spotted with minute 
black dots, with a white hair in each dot. When we see the 
devastation which can be done to our cabbage plants by 
these caterpillars, and when we hear of the number of eggs 
sometimes laid by one butterfly on a single leaf, we may 
wonder that any cabbages at all are left for human beings 
to eat, but this is easily explained, for caterpillars are the 
chief food of many young birds. When a sparrow, for 
instance, has a nest full of young fledglings crying out 
and gaping for food, it has only to repair to the cabbage 




Chrysalis and Caterpillar of Cabbage Butterfly. 


plants in our own or a neighbour’s garden, and can at 
ease pick off all it wants of the soft savoury creatures 
that its young require for their nourishment. It is said 
that a parent sparrow will sometimes carry home to its 
nest as many as two thousand caterpillars in one week. 
Insects, too, prey on them, as the ichneumon fly, which 
will lay its eggs in their bodies, and the eggs being 
hatched there, the larva , or fly-grub, will gradually eat 



Vanessa Io (Peacock Butterfly). 


up the body of the caterpillar, who still goes on eating 
until nearly the last spark of life is left—the grub itself 
taking care to avoid the more vital parts of the cater¬ 
pillar, so that its own food supply may be continued as 
long as possible. When the caterpillar by chance 
escapes being captured by a bird or being preyed on by 
the ichneumon fly, it hangs itself up, head downwards, 
to the garden wall or paling, or to the branch of some 
fruit-tree, and turns to an angular black-spotted chrysalis, 
fastened round the body with a belt of silk. 


 . 


   


The Cabbage Butterfly of our garden, however, is a 
very common and homely looking insect, compared to 
others which live on the honey of our flowers. We have 
there, flitting about in the sunshine through many months 
of the year, first one and then another of some beautiful 
sister butterflies, having the same family name of Va¬ 
nessa, but who are distinguished one from another by 
second names, such as ‘ Io,’ £ Atalanta/ ‘ Cardui/ etc., 
and by the English common names of ‘ Peacock/ e Red 
Admiral/ ‘ Painted Lady/ and ‘ Tortoiseshell/ etc. 
Most lovely in form and colour are these sisters; their 
wings being not only very elegant in outline, but adorned 
with spots and stripes of blue, black, and white, and with 
bands of red on a velvety ground of rich brown, all three 
somewhat alike and yet very different and easy to be dis¬ 
tinguished one from another. We cannot claim all these 
as natives of our garden, though they are so often seen 
there, for, strange to say, these gay creatures, who are so 
bright and delicate, and might be supposed to have been 
born and bred among our choicest flowers, are really 
natives of some neighbouring bit of common-land or . 
waste ground by the road side. There the caterpillars 
have been hatched from eggs which were laid on the 
leaves of the nettles and thistles which grow in such 
places, and after the caterpillar has fed on these leaves 
until it is ready to take the chrysalis form, they still 
remain on the plant. Constructing themselves little cages 
or tents, partly of the stinging and prickly leaves of the 
plants, and partly of silken webs and threads which draw 


   


rHE DWELLERS IN OUR GARDENS. 


them together, they there undergo the curious change. A 
few weeks is sufficient time for them to pass from the newly- 
hatched caterpillar state to that of the perfect butterfly. 



Chrysalis of Vanessa urtica, or ‘of the Nettled 

When once escaped, however, from the little angular 
mummy-case suspended among the thistle and nettle 
leaves, with their wings ready for flight, and their long 
trunks ready for suction—then it is that the Vanessa sisters 



Vanessa urtica (Tortoiseshell Butterfly). 



 . 


   


become ours. The road-side nettle has no food that 
will suit their newly-acquired taste for honey, nor has the 
thistle, with its closely packed tuft-like flowers, so they 
come over our garden walls to us. They depend upon 
our flowers, and flitting from one to another, poise upon 
their expanded corollas, and gracefully unfolding their 
coiled-up sucking tubes, dip them down to the nectaries 
of the flower cups and bells. They can get at honey 
which the short proboscis of the bee cannot reach, as 
well as at that which is at the bottom of flower tubes 
too narrow for the entrance of the bee’s body. Only 
when the time comes for providing for the continuance 
of their beautiful race, do they go back to the nettles of 
the road-side, or the thistles of the common, in order to 
deposit their eggs on the same sort of leaves that in the 
caterpillar form had served for their own nourishment. 
Does some curious remembrance of what their former 
life was, among those nettles and thistles, guide them 
back to them; or do they know that there, among the 
stinging and prickly leaves, their eggs will be safe from 
the disturbance of human hands ? Does some fairy 
whisper to them that there their offspring will be safer 
than among the buds and blossoms that those human 
fingers are so apt to meddle with ? We only fancy this, 
for we know that they are but led by the unerring instinct 
which seems sometimes to guide these small creatures 
more safely and surely than human beings are always 
guided by the reason of which they are so proud. And 
these eggs, which to our unassisted eyes would appear 


   


 . 


only like tiny round beads, when highly magnified are 
found to have most curious and beautiful forms. 

Some of the Vanessa family, however, have still more 
to do with our gardens, since one of these,    Vanessa 
comma ’—so called because of a little mark on the under 
side of its wings like a comma or letter C—will stay with 
us altogether, and lay its eggs on the leaves of a currant- 



Butterfly’s Eggs, highly magnified. 


bush or hop-plant, so that we may thus have it through 
all its forms of life when these eggs are hatched. The 
‘ Vanessa urtica,’ too, though her second name does 
mean ‘ of the nettle / will at times, when a caterpillar 
come and hang herself by a silken thread beneath the 
coping-stone of a garden wall for the sake of its shelter y 
and ‘ Vanessa cardui,’ or    of the thistle ,,’ if she find out 
that we have artichokes in our kitchen gardens, will lay 
her eggs upon its spiked leaves, and the caterpillar, after 














 . 


   


feeding on these, will, when it comes to the time for 
changing into a chrysalis, construct a little tent of them, 
drawing together the smaller leaves with silken cords, so 
as to make a safe shelter, and thus causing the entrance 
into life of the beautiful ‘ Painted Lady   to be within 
the confines of our garden walls. 

Butterflies are not only very beautiful, but are also very 
curious creatures; as we find when we help ourselves 
with the microscope in order to examine them more care¬ 
fully, and from the moment that the caterpillar has left 
the egg there are to be found traces in their structure of 
what we may call a preparation for the perfect form of 
the butterfly, which is little by little arrived at as it grows 
and passes through its first two stages of life. It is no 
wonder that the caterpillar should feed so ravenously, 
since it is nourishing itself in order to provide material 
for the other forms into which its life is to pass. Careful 
naturalists who have dissected and magnified very highly 
the insides of caterpillars have discovered in their bodies 
signs and tokens of what was to be afterwards the 
butterfly’s wings. In the chrysalis they can see it still 
more plainly. But we need not so much wonder at this, 
because it is what we find in all animal and vegetable 
life and growth. All the forms of life have small be¬ 
ginnings, hid as it were in other forms. From an egg 
the size of a cocoa-nut comes the great ostrich—from the 
small acorn the mighty oak, with its wide-spread branches, 
its solid trunk, and millions of leaves. Something in the 
egg becomes the future bird, and something in the seed 


    


 . 


becomes the future tree or plant; and in the same way, 
something in the caterpillar becomes the future butterfly. 
Even if we cannot see them, we may be sure that such 
parts as the delicate feelers with the knobs at the end, 
which are probably the organs of scent, as well as the 
long proboscis, are in preparation from the first, though 
neither caterpillar nor chrysalis has need of them; and 
the lovely wings which make the butterfly such a different 
creature to the soft and crawling worm or the shapeless 
chrysalis, are also there, hidden in the caterpillar. Only 
one thing is alike in each of the three forms, since in all 
are found the spiracles, or small breathing-holes, down 
each side of the body, through which the air is inhaled 
which is essential to the continuance of life. 

Like many other insects, butterflies have two large 
eyes on each side of the head, which are fixed and im¬ 
movable—not turning in every direction like our own 
eyes in search of those objects we want to see, nor like 
our eyes in admitting light by one aperture, but composed 
of innumerable little eye-lets , or facets, which perhaps 
reflect objects like tiny mirrors. Such eyes are called 
compound eyes, and no doubt perfectly suit the purposes 
of the butterfly during its short life, when a few flowers 
holding a drop of nectar, and a leaf or two of the right 
sort to lay its eggs on, are all that it has to look out for. 

We must all have noticed that if we attempt to hold a 
butterfly after we have captured it, a fine flaky powder 
comes off on our fingers, which we have perhaps been 
told as children was the feathers of the butterfly’s wings. 


 . 


   


But this is scarcely the fact, for when highly magnified, 
it is found to be composed of coloured scales, rather 
than feathers. In each variety of butterfly, these scales 
somewhat differ in form or texture, and are found to be 
placed on a gauze-like frame-work, one lying on another 
like tiles on the roof of a house. Those on the under 
side of the wing being often different in form to those on 
the upper side. 



Scales of Butterfly’s Wings, highly magnified. 


The motion in the wings of butterflies is very different 
from that of birds, from their not moving both wings at 
the same time. They do not rest in the air, nor swoop , 
but flutter up and down in a zig-zag, which manner of 



flight is perhaps a safeguard in some respects from cap¬ 
ture by birds, and enables them to elude their pursuit. 


E 











 ° 


 . 


The slender antennae, or feelers, which every butterfly 
has on its head, are found to be jointed or movable, so 
that they can be bent slightly; but whether asleep or 
awake, they are always erect, and not like those of the 
moth when asleep, bent back over or under the body. 



Head of Vanessa atalanta, or Red Admiral Butterfly, 
showing the two feelers, the large compound eye, and the pro¬ 
boscis unfurled. 

The structure of the proboscis, or trunk of the butterfly, 
is very curious. When the perfect insect first comes out 
from the chrysalis’s case, it is extended along the 
stomach, and while the wings are being gradually ex¬ 
panded into their full form and size, it is disengaged and 
rolled up into a spiral coil. It is formed of two long 
blades, each hollowed out in a furrow, and after first one 





 .     

is drawn up and then the other, the two portions are put 
together, and form a double tube most delicately jointed, 
so that when wanted by the creature, it can be gracefully 
uncoiled, and dipped down into a flower, no matter how 
deep its tube or bell may be; and in this respect the 
butterfly has an advantage over the bee, since it is 
enabled, as we have seen, to take possession of honey 
which the short proboscis of the latter has not been able 



Fore-legs of Caterpillar. 



Hind-legs or Claspers. 


to reach, or which lay at the bottom of flower-bells and 
tubes that his body could not get into in order to rifle. 
The six or four slender and jointed legs of the butterfly 
are very different to those of the caterpillar, in whom the 
six fore-feet are furnished with pointed claws, which assist 
it in weaving and adjusting the silken thread which 
comes from its head. After letting itself down by a line, 
to break its fall or escape from capture by birds, it uses 


e   


    


 . 


these to haul itself up again. The other ten legs are 
called clasp ers, their use being to enable the caterpillar 
to cling tightly to the leaf or stem of the plant on which 
it feeds, and when magnified are found to be like suckers,, 
which adhere by means of the air being excluded beneath 
them ; and as the fly can walk on the ceiling by means 
of such suckers at the end of its legs, so can the cater¬ 
pillar hold itself on to the under side of a leaf. When 
it is spinning the silk thread which comes from its head, 
or weaving a web with it, or passing a belt round its 
body when about to change to a chrysalis, these claspers 
hold it securely fixed to some object. 

The casting off of the skin several times in the course 
of the caterpillar’s life is very curious, and during the 
operation, the creature leaves off eating and looks sick 
and ill, and the old skin shrivels up. When gradually it is 
wriggled off, the new skin beneath appears smoother in- 
texture and brighter in colour than the last, and the 
caterpillar seems altogether larger, as if the new garment 
were not put on before it was wanted. The change of 
skin of the caterpillar is like the moulting of birds, and 
the growth of fresh hair over the bodies of quadrupeds. 

It would seem that in some respects the different 
species of butterflies often differ from each other in 
habits, although belonging to the same family. This is 
especially seen in regard to the manner in which they 
pass the winter, or hybernate. In order that the race of 
each should be continued from year to year, one of the 
forms of their life must last through the cold of our 


 . 


   


winters, and in spite of their love of warmth and sun¬ 
shine, and seeming dependence on flowers, we find that 
it is often the butterfly which survives. When the 
cold days of autumn come on the butterfly will fold up 
its wings one against the other, slip into some crack or 
cranny in a wall, or paling, or tree trunk, and there in a 
state of lethargy or sleep await the return of spring. A 
very fine warm day, even as late as the end of November, 
or beginning of December, will waken up some of them 



from their winter sleep, and entice them out to see if 
such a thing as a honey-holding flower-cup is yet to be 
found. With other species it will be the chrysalis which 
lasts through the winter—the butterfly coming forth from 
it with the earliest sunshine of spring, while some very 
few eggs of the caterpillars will remain on withered 
leaves, or on the stems of plants, and be hatched in 
spring by the same warmth which has brought out the 
young leaves they require for their food. 



   


 . 


We cannot attempt to tell of all the lovely butterflies 
which, during the summer months, will from time to time 
pay visits to our gardens, from their different native 
places—all of them being so free to rove, that no wonder 
they venture sometimes on a little foreign travel. They 
come to us from sweet meadows starred over with butter¬ 
cups and ox-eye daisies, and reddened with spikes of 
flowering sorrel—’from banks where dog-violets hold up 
their blue flowers to the sun, and primroses nestle 



Orange-tip Butterfly. 


among their leaves. They come from fields of clover 
and beans—from river banks, where reeds and rushes, 
and willow-herb grow so tall, and are all alive with insect 
life. Others come from shady woods and copses—others 
from heaths covered with ling and purple heather, and 
golden'broom ; and from commons where the luscious- 
scented gorse is flowering, and others from chalky downs 
where the tiny eye-bright and milk-wort and dwarf bed- 
straws grow among the short grass. When we happen to 


 . 


   


know where they come from, they remind ns of these 
sweet native homes of theirs, where they have lived their 
two former lives. They give life and colour to our 
gardens, and cause us pleasant surprises as we find the 
pretty phantoms there among our flowers, and though we 
do not always remember it, they form one of the charms 
of our summer days. We do not quarrel with them, as 
with the snail and spider, because they so please our 


/ 

j 



Chrysalis of Orange-tip— placed on bough so as to look like 

part of it. 

eyes j but somehow ,we hold them a little in contempt. We 
think of them as frivolous and thoughtless of the future, 
and consider them unworthy to be compared to the 
careful and provident bee or ant, just when they are lead¬ 
ing the life they were created to live, and doing as 
their natures prompt them to do. Ought we not rather 
to remind ourselves of the tender forethought which 
leads them to lay their eggs only where the right kind of 
food will be supplied to the young caterpillar the. mo- 



    


 . 


ment it is hatched ; and more than this seems to de¬ 
termine many of them in the laying of their eggs. The 
care shown by one butterfly alone, for instance—the 
‘Colias Hyale,’ or ‘Pale-yellow-clouded’ Butterfly—ought 
to redeem the whole race from the charge of frivolity. 
Instinct leads her when the time for depositing her eggs 
comes in the early summer, to lay them on the delicate 
leaves of the clover or trefoil. The egg is hatched, and 
the small caterpillar not only feeds on tire leaves, but 
finds in them a protection from cold and damp. Each 
leaflet of the trefoil has a way of folding itself up—one- 
half of the leaflet against the other half, when night falls. 
The little caterpillar has, therefore, only to stretch itself 
along the mid-rib of the leaf when the sun has set, and then 
the leaf folding itself up, and its toothed edges clasping 
closely together, the tender body of the caterpillar is en¬ 
closed within a soft cradle during the hours of dampness 
and cold; and when the sun again rises and expands the 
clover leaf it may begin to eat its couch for its morning 
meal! We like to give the ‘Colias Hyale’ some credit 
for obeying so carefully the promptings of her nature; 
but we must also remind ourselves of the Beneficence and 
Love which has given to her nature that forethought 
which is so tenderly to secure the preservation of a little 
caterpillar’s life. To each creature has been given, by 
its Creator, either a desire to provide beforehand for its 
young, food and safety, or the means of protecting it 
when born; and at the same time there is given to it the 


 . 


   


sort of knowledge which is needed to satisfy the desire, 
as well as for the employment of the means of pro¬ 
tection. 



/* 


Vanessa cardui (‘of the thistle’)—P ainted Lady, 







   


 . 



|g| UNDERGROUND DWELLERS AND WORKERS. 


n*’ * • OST curious and yet most true is 
* ^ ie stor y we h ave to tell of how 


  IV. 


while we walk about our gardens, 


treading our gravel paths and cross¬ 


ing our grass plots and lawns, there is living and working 
beneath our very feet a race of small creatures whom we 
may describe as a people who dwell in large communities 
underground, and who inhabit cities formed of caves 
instead of houses. At times we see very little of the 
inhabitants of these cave-cities above ground, but in the 
early part of the year, a portion of them being employed 
in forming fresh underground dwellings for the use of 
their increasing population, we can perceive the situation 
and extent o-f their operations by the piles of earth which 
are thrown up to the surface of the ground, and which also 
enable us to judge of the great works going on beneath. 
When we consider the proportion that these earth-works 
bear to the workers, we may well call their labours most 
wonderful, especially as they are performed without the help 
of machinery or even tools. At the beginning of summer 
we may find thrown up on our lawns piles of earth which 


 . 


   


are as enormous when compared to the size of the work¬ 
people, as were the great pyramids of Egypt to the men 
who constructed them, and even on our paths are to be 
seen piles of gravel like small craters around the openings 
of the shafts, or passages which lead down to the excava¬ 
tions underground, which are as high when compared to 
the excavators as are our houses to their inhabitants. 
Now if we watch how these mounds of gravel are raised, we 
shall see that there are two streams of busy workers con¬ 
stantly going up and down the shafts; one stream con¬ 
sisting of workers who come up with small loads of earth 
which they carry to a short distance from the entrance to 
the shaft, and another stream of those who are returning to 
fetch more; and if we examine with a magnifying glass 
these tiny loads of earth or gravel, so small to our eyes, 
but yet a heavy load no doubt to the creature who 
carries it, we shall find that it is a rounded ball of soil 
which has been slightly kneaded together before it was 
brought up; and should we attempt to count these small 
loads of earth, we shall find it impossible to number 
even those which are around the entrance of a single 
shaft, and yet each of them represents the toilsome 
journey of a worker from beneath to the surface— 
hundreds of thousands of small grains, telling of 
hundreds of thousands of journeys up and down; and 
when we observe all these signs of labour we may be 
sure that at such times is going on, the construction or 
enlargement of one of the cave-cities of the Underground 
Workers. 


 o 


 . 


Let us, however, see what is the form of the little 
workers, and what are their powers; and again using 
the magnifying glass, we now perceive that they have 
curious long bodies divided into three parts, that they 
have six legs, and two long feelers in front. The head, 
the chest or thorax, and the stomach or abdomen, form 
the three parts, and it is this division of the body which 
causes the creature to be called an insect, and we know 
that this particular kind of insect is called an ant. We 
all get some notion of the busy bustling fussy ways of 
ants from what we see of them above ground, but it is 
by no means so easy to find out all that relates to their 
lives beneath the ground. Curious mistakes have been 
made about them and their habits, and after all the close 
observations of a great many naturalists who have made 
them their study, we have yet much to learn about them, 
while the more we know of the tiny creatures, the more 
wonderful their doings appear to us. Of course there 
are many kinds of ants, and the habits of each kind 
differ somewhat from one another, but in some respects 
all English ants are alike in their mode of life ; and 
when we have learnt all that there is to tell about our 
garden ants, we shall find that the whole life of the 
greater number of them—just those whom we see bustling 
about here and there, and journeying up and down, is spent 
in labours that have a very important purpose. 

In each ant city there are three kinds of inhabitants, 
and on all three kinds the good of the whole community 
depends. There is no such thing as an ant living 


   l 

or working for itself, providing for its own wants or those 
of its young, as with most other creatures. All ants 
live and work together for the benefit of the whole 
population in each community. In each of the latter, 
there are males , females , and working ants . The males 
and females have to produce the young, and so supply 
inhabitants for the city, while the working ants have to 
work for, and feed, and take care of the males and 
females, and young, and construct the cave-cities, and it 
is these indefatigable little creatures with which we are 
best acquainted from seeing them above ground when 
they come up on matters of business. On them depends, 
in fact, the well-being and lives of all. It is they, as we 
have shown, who are so busy when the fine weather sets 
in, in hollowing out the caves or cells, which will be 
wanted for future progeny, and which they connect 
together with galleries and passages, so that all are 
communicable one with another. Some of the caves 
are for the reception of the females who are to become 
the mothers of a future generation, others are for the 
males, and others are destined for the eggs which pro¬ 
duce the grubs or larvae, and others for the cocoons 
from which the perfect ants are to be hatched. The 
female ants being much larger than either the males or 
workers, larger cells are wanted for them of an oval form 
suited to the shape of their bodies, and where they are 
waited upon and tended with great care and respect, 
since on them depends the keeping up of the population, 
which seems to be the great aim of all ant labour and 


   


THE DWELLERS *IN OUR GARDENS. 


industry; and when we consider how a constant diminu¬ 
tion of their numbers must be going on from the fact 
that many species of birds make them their food, we 
can understand how necessary this strong instinct is in 
the nature of the little creatures, if the ant race is not 
to die out and become extinct. The greatest care, and 
exactness, and skill is shewn in the formation of the 
little cave cells. The walls of them are built up of grains 
of earth, fitted into each other with great precision, and 
then it would seem they are covered over with some 
kind of cement which the creature has the power of 
secreting from its body, and when the whole is done, the 
small mason will carefully pass his feelers over his work to 
see that all is smooth, compact, and firm, just as a human 
mason will measure his work with his rule to satisfy 
himself that his bricks are all level, and his wall 
upright. 

During the winter, ants spend their time in a torpid 
state in their underground caves, and at this time 
the hive is filled perhaps only with workers, and the 
cocoons ready for hatching when warm weather comes, 
and it is to prepare for the fresh populations that new 
works, and additions to their cities are made in spring, 
and when these are once finished the whole character 
and employment of the working ant undergoes a com¬ 
plete change. The same anxiety for the good of the 
whole community, the same devotion to the interests of 
their race and city shew themselves, and the same self- 
denial and unwearied industry goes on, but they are now 


 . 


    


no longer miners or masons, no longer ‘ navvies ’, but 
become most tender and careful ‘ nurses' From the 
time that the city is supplied with new abodes, and that 
the warmth of the sun is felt even beneath the earth, 
the wonderful transformation begins within the ant- 
cocoon which is to change its contents into a living 
creature. Just when the mother bird is sitting on her 
eggs in her snug nest, so as to give the warmth needed 
for their change into young birds, the ant nurses begin 
their loving attentions to the cocoons in their caves, 



Ant highly magnified, carrying Cocoon. 


which also require heat for their change into living ants. 
More eager bustling begins among them, which we cannot 
always see, since it goes on beneath ground. When the 
sun shines out bright and warm, the cocoons in the cells 
deep down below in the hive, must be carried up to nearer 
the surface, where the warmth will reach them, and to 
effect this the whole army of nurses,is in commotion: 
and if we can manage to catch sight of them at such 
times we shall see each little worker with a white oblong 
cocoon—not very unlike a baby in swaddling clothes— 




    . 

held by the end in her" jaws or mandibles which she 
carries before her, and which forms a load almost as 
large as her own body, or even larger if it be the cocoon 
of a future male or female. But the cocoons have 
perhaps not long been placed in the warmer cells, or 
laid in some passage or gallery near the opening of a 
shaft, when the sun becomes obscured and a shower 
begins to fall. Now although the white covering of 
the cocoons is a tolerably tough and strong material, yet 
it would not do for them to be exposed to both cold and 
damp, and the careful nurses have to set to work to carry 
their charges all back to the lowermost cells where the 
rain will not reach them—to bring them up again, it may 
be, before the day is over, in case the sun should re-appear. 
No end is there in fact to the tender care, and in¬ 
defatigable attention of the nurses. It has been no 
doubt this running about with the white cocoons in their 
mandibles, or the finding of them in their nests in the 
winter, which has led to the mistake of supposing that 
ants stored up grains of corn and other seeds, which is 
certainly not the case with any ants known in England, 
who pass the winter in a dormant state. Naturalists have 
however lately become aware that a peculiar species of 
ant found in some other countries, does lay up a store 
of food such as corn and rice, and have named them 
   harvesting ants.’ It may have been of such, that King 
Solomon speaks, who was so knowing about plants and 

*We may say her, since it has been discovered that the working 
ants are really females, though imperfectly formed ones, so that 
they do not produce eggs. 


 . 


   


animals, where in his proverbs he describes the ant as 
“ providing her meat in summer and getting her food in 
the harvest,” while in another way his knowledge was 
also most correct, since he speaks of the ant as “ having 
no guide, overseer, or ruler,” for it is certain that all the 
operations of the working ant, all her busy industry and 
anxiety for the good of the community to which she 
belongs, arises from an impulse within the little creature 
forming part of her nature, which is very like the love 
of duty in a human being. It does not surprise us to 
find other animals taking tender care of their young, and 
we admire the devotion and self-denial which they 
often show towards them, but with the ant-nurses it is 
the young of others whom they tend, and the good of 
the whole of their fellow-citizens, which is the aim of 
their labour. They seem to have the feeling which we 
call love of our country, or national honour and pride. 
They are not slaves by any means, for no one orders or 
exercises authority over them—they are rather willing 
and devoted servants to the general good. The powers, 
feelings, and affections of ants being so many and so 
curious, it has been said that the brain of an ant, perhaps 
no larger than a fine grain of sand, must be the most 
wonderful particle of matter in the world. 

But though our ants do not store up food, nor eat in the 
winter, it has at other times a good appetite, and within our 
garden walls an abundant supply of food is found, suited 
to the taste and fitted for the nourishment of the ant 
colonies. They like most kinds of fruits, sweet roots, 

F 


   


 . 


and even the flesh of slugs and snails. A dead mouse 
or sparrow is soon attacked and their bones picked clean 
by hungry ants. We know too well how a fallen pear 
or apple is often found to be hollowed out by ants, and 
how our peaches and nectarines are attacked by them 
and riddled with holes. Nothing in fact that is sweet 
comes amiss to them, and portions of food are at all 
times carried down by the workers to the grubs or larvae 
hatched from the eggs, or to the young ants which have 
just left the cocoons. Their strong jaws or mandibles 
enable them to bite solid food and carry it in their 
mouths, while they have also a kind of hollow tongue 
like a scoop which can be used for lapping up liquids, 
and is perhaps employed for taking home some of 
the sweet juices of fruit. We know how wonderful 
is sometimes the persistent industry and determination 
of the little creatures, in getting at the kinds of food they 
like best. To an ant-city at one side of our garden, for 
instance, there is carried somehow in August the perfume 
of the ripening peaches on the wall at the opposite side. 
We cannot detect the fragrant odour so far off ourselves, 
but the sensitive nerves of the tiny ants must discover it 
in the air. It may, to be sure, be possible that some 
adventurous ant traveller has penetrated across the vast 
(to them) extent of land which stretches between their 
hive and the wall where hang the downy peaches that 
are getting softer and sweeter every day, and that he has 
journeyed back to tell his fellow citizens what he has 
discovered, and has induced a large party to set off and 


 . 


0  


make a causeway across the paths and beds, and form 
tunnels under the turf borders, to where the peaches can 
be reached by climbing the wall. We can easily see 
that a long procession of them is constantly doing this, 
though we know not exactly how they have first been 
induced to undertake such a distant exploration. But 
there can be no doubt that ants have wonderful ways of 
communicating with each other, nor that they have 
something like a language of their own. If we watch a 
party going to and fro across a path, we soon observe 
that they occasionally stop as they pass each other, 
touch one another with their feelers or antennae, and then 
continue their route, much as we do ourselves when we 
meet a friend and have a chat with him in the street. 
Naturalists who have observed the ways of ants very 
carefully and constantly, have seen that when any 
calamity has occurred in the colony, the workers will 
run about and tell the news to those at a distance, with 
a touch of their feelers, and that then all who are so 
warned will hurry to the scene of the disaster in order to 
set about repairing it. Perhaps even sounds are emitted 
by ants, and many other insects, which are too fine and 
high pitched for our ears to hear, as the elephant who 
hears the deep notes of an organ or drum, cannot hear 
the high and shrill notes of a pipe or flute. There have 
been cases where ants seem to have got scent of some 
store of honey, or treacle, or sweet preserve within a 
house, and have journeyed a long distance in great num¬ 
bers to reach it, even making their way down chimneys 


   


 . 


to get to the luscious store, but our garden ants are 
generally contented with what they can find without 
doors. 

Nothing, too, is more certainly true in the ways of 
ants, than that they supply their keen craving for 
sweet liquid food by having recourse to the honey dew 
which is secreted from the bodies of the little green aphis 



Aphis—“the Cow of the Ant”— 
highly magnified. 

or plant louse, which lives upon the sap of our rose trees, 
and of which other kinds are to be found on our larger 
trees, such as the poplar, oak, lime, and apple tree. 
The rose aphides have even been called the ‘ cattle of the 
ants,’ and the latter are said to milk them like cows for 
their sweet juices, and even to capture them and keep 
them in their hives for this purpose. Watching the 
stem of a rose which happens to be covered with these 
delicate little creatures in thick clusters, we shall not be 
long before we perceive some ants among < them, and 
with a magnifying glass may detect one touching an 
aphis with its feelers, striking with a rapid motion like 


 . 


   


the beating of two drum-sticks just where two little 
projections stand out from the back of the aphis like a 
double tail. These are the teats of the ant’s cow, and 
soon there can be seen oozing out from them drops of 
the sweet syrup which the ant eagerly laps up. The 
life of the aphis is one long process of sucking up the sap 
of the rose stem, first piercing it with the sharp proboscis 
beneath its head, which penetrates the outer green bark 
and acts also as a sucker. The sap of the plant, which at 
first is not sweet, as it circulates in the rose stem, becomes 
converted into a kind of honey in the body of the aphis, 
as the nectar of flowers is changed into honey in the 
body of the bee. And there can be no doubt that as 
the bee carries home within its body to the hive the 
juices of flowers, so the ant carries to the male and 
female ants, or young ones at home, some of the sweet 
honey dew it has lapped up. So fond are ants of this 
kind of food that they will even excavate long under¬ 
ground passages like railway tunnels, to the foot of the 
trees or shrubs where are to be found the different 
species of aphis or plant lice, in order that they may 
make their way easily backward and forward from the 
hive during the season when the honey dew is being 
produced by the aphides. 

And now we must return to the history of the cocoons, 
which the nursing ants take so much care of, and carry 
up and down according as they want extra warmth for 
them to bring them to maturity—the shifting and 
carrying about of the little white oblong cocoons in their 


  ° 


 . 


jaws going on for some weeks of spring, and then, from 
some tokens best known to the watchful nurses, they find 
that the young ant has come to perfection within the 
cocoon, and is ready to come out and enter upon 
ant life and be fed; and not waiting until the little 
insect has made its own way out of its envelope, as the 
young bird contrives to do from its enveloping shell, the 
workers have been seen to bite the ends of the cocoons, 
and making an aperture, help the young ants to extricate 
themselves from them. Sometimes this matter is not so 
easily managed, and two workers have been seen pulling 
at the little creature to disentangle it from the cocoon. 
The ant once launched into life, it makes all the differ¬ 
ence in its value and importance to its native city, 
whether it has proved to be a male or female, or merely 
an ordinary worker like those who assisted at its birth, 
and since the two former are much larger than the 
workers, it follows that the cocoons are also larger, and 
have been from the first placed in larger cells prepared 
especially for them, so that even from the time of the egg 
being laid by the mother ant it has been the most care* 
fully preserved and tended. The females are much the 
largest of the three kinds of ants, and are at all times 
treated with the greatest honour and respect, and get the 
choicest food and the most abundant supply of it, since 
they are to become the mothers of the future generation 
which is to keep up the numbers of the ant colony. 
Ants do not, like bees, make a queen of one particular 
mother ant, but are glad to have among them as many 


 . 


    


mothers as possible. When they emerge from the co¬ 
coons, both males and females are furnished with gauzy 
wings, destined to be used when the time comes for their 
leaving the hive and pairing, until which time they re¬ 
main in their cells, waited on by their attendant nurses. 
Perhaps it would not be very incorrect to say that these 
latter again change their characters at this period, and 
take upon themselves the office of jailers, while they 
watch most carefully to prevent the escape of the females 
from the hive. What can those silvery wings be for if 
not for flying with, in the air and sunshine above ground, 
and when once the mother ants are gone, who can tell 
if ever they will return again ? 

At length the time comes when all the watchful¬ 
ness of the workers and all attempts to retain the 
female ants become useless. The summer is suffi¬ 
ciently advanced, and the wings must be expanded 
and used for the purpose for which they were intended, 
and on some particularly warm day, the males first 
making their way out of the hive, they are followed by 
the females in spite of all the opposition of their 
guardians, and take flight into the soft air and bright 
sunshine. In terrible concern and dismay, the workers 
swarm up to the surface of the ground. The constant 
objects of their care, whether as nurses or jailers, are 
gone, and need them no longer. Thousands of ant- 
lengths high up above them, they are sporting in the air, 
among all the other winged creatures—birds, butterflies, 
bees, wasps, and gnats. What a change from the cold, 


   


 . 


dark, underground cells, in the old ant city ! The male 
ants never return to it again, and we know not what 
becomes of them. They fall a prey perhaps to fly- 
catching birds, or perish with the cold of evening and its 
damp dews, or are captured in spiders’ webs. The 
females, however, seem to have an instinct which brings 
them back to the neighbourhood of their native home, 
around which workers place themselves as scouts, at 
considerable distances, on the look-out for them. No 
sooner is a female ant descried than she is surrounded 
by a number of her old jailers, and led back to the 
underground city again in triumph, in order that in one 
of the cells prepared for her she may in due time deposit 
her eggs. A few female ants so captured are sufficient 
to secure the continuance of a numerous population, 
and they again become; the objects of most obsequious 
devotion on the part of the workers until this is accom¬ 
plished. A group of attendants constantly surrounds 
them, and their presence seems always a cause of joy 
and exultation. The workers have a way of skipping and 
leaping around them, and perform many kinds of frolics, 
to congratulate each other when a female is captured. 
“ Some of them gently walk over her,” says an ob¬ 
server of ants; “ others dance over her, to show their 
loyalty and affection.” No sooner, however, has a 
female ant laid any eggs in a cell than the at¬ 
tendants immediately make these the objects of 
their care and attention, instead of herself, and the ant 
mother will wander away and deposit eggs in another 


THE DWELLERS IN OUR CARDENS. 


   


cell. Should she die before she has laid any eggs, the 
attendants will stay with the body for several days, 

brushing and licking her in token of affection, or in 

£ 

hopes of restoring her to life. 

Before the mother ants begin to lay their eggs, however, 
a most singular operation has to be gone through, which 
is unlike anything done by any other creature. 
Their silvery wings, which enabled them to enjoy 
such a pleasant time in the open air, being no 
longer wanted for flying abroad, are to be cast aside as 
useless appendages, and the female, by biting the joints 
where they are attached to her body, and by bending 
them backwards and forwards over her back and head, 
gradually works them off. Henceforth she has only the 
task to perform of laying her eggs ; the eggs in due time 
are hatched, and the young grubs or larvie, after being 
carefully fed by the workers, whom we may again call 
nurses, weave a covering around themselves, pass through 
the change undergone by all insects within their white 
cocoons, until they become perfect ants. 

There are several very distinct species of ants to be 
met with in our woods and fields, somewhat different in 
their habits to those we have described, some of whom 
raise high hillocks of earth above the surface of the 
ground, in which they have different storeys of cells and 
galleries, used in warm weather, while other underground 
apartments are inhabited in winter time. In our gardens 
we may also distinguish two kinds of ant—the Brown 
Ant, or ‘Formica brunnea,’ and the Red Ant, ‘Formica 


   


 . 


rufa.’ These two species of ant, though they are often 
near neighbours, would seem to be natural enemies, and 
each is perceived to guard most jealously their cities or 
colonies from being invaded by the other. The Red Ant 
is of a fiercer nature than the Brown Ant, and observers 
tell of most obstinately fought battles between them and 
their brown neighbours, in which numbers of the com¬ 
batants will be slaughtered and left dead upon the battle¬ 
field. In some instances these wars have been supposed 
to arise from parties of red ants wanting to carry off a 
supply of female cocoons from the brown ant colony, 
and in other cases from the brown ants wanting to get 
the services of some red workers for their own hive ; but 
such supposed origins for the battles seem less likely 
than that the two races were disputing for possession of 
some supply of favourite food. We have, however, watched 
a long-continued single combat between a red and a brown 
ant, which has been so obstinately carried on and so often 
renewed that we are ready to believe at all events in their 
enmity and disposition to fight. Other observers have no¬ 
ticed ants at play, trying to bite each other, and chasing 
each other like frolicsome children. Very many curious 
observations have of late years been made on the ways of 
ants by naturalists, who have constructed glass cases, in 
which they have managed to establish ant communities, 
by putting into them ants of the three kinds—workers, 
males, and females—with a supply of earth for mining 
and cell-making, and food to their liking. By this means 
have been observed more plainly their wonderful per- 


 . 


   


severance and unfailing industry, while it has also been 
seen that ants are a very cleanly and tidy race, and in all 
their building and rearing of young take care never to 
leave any refuse material about, but give themselves the 
greatest trouble to carry such matter away. 

The good qualities in ants have caused them to 
be held up as an example to human beings in all 
ages, and we may conclude our history of these little 
creatures by telling how the perseverance of a single 
ant served to restore the courage and perseverance of 
a single man. A story is related of the Tartar prince 
and hero Timour, or Tamerlane, who at one time being 
discouraged and cast down by the defeat of his troops 
in some warlike excursion, was lying in his tent, and 
happened to notice an ant trying to crawl up its hang¬ 
ings. Striking it dow r n with the end of a straw, the 
insect again and again renewed its attempts to climb 
up the curtain, and each time the warrior interrupted its 
ascent by striking it down. The prince was curious to 
see how long it would persist in its efforts, and eighty 
times the little creature renewed its attempts, and was 
eighty times knocked dow r n, until at length it conquered, 
the hero himself becoming tired of the contest, while 
full of admiration for his small conqueror, and he said 
to himself, “ I will imitate this ant, and in like manner I 
too will conquer;” and renewing his efforts against his own 
enemies, he became at last the conqueror of all India. 

But though men have ‘considered the ways’ of the 
ant, in order to be ‘wise,’ we may well ask our- 


    


 . 


selves what the little creatures have ever gained from 
us, and what sort of a notion they can have of us ? 
We have, of course, many powers and capabilities far 
above the ants, but it is sad to reflect, that if they are 
conscious at all of our presence in the world, it can only 
be as of cruel monsters who often destroy their im¬ 
portant works, and who, if they interfere with our com¬ 
fort or invade our luxuries, will ruthlessly slaughter 
millions of the innocent inhabitants of their under¬ 
ground cities. Even if we would, we can scarcely 
become their benefactors or protectors. We can but 
admire them, learn all that concerns their lives, watch 
their curious ways, and examine their wonderful works—■, 
trying at least to leave these, our little fellow-creatures 
their place in this great and beautiful world, in which 
their lives and ours are placed and ordered. 






 . 


   


  V. 

THE BUSY ONES, WHO LOOK TO THE FUTURE. 

HERE is a retired corner 
in a certain garden which we 
know of, where stand the bee¬ 
hives, just where a privet 
> hedge shelters them from the 
east, and a wall covered with 
an apricot-tree screens them 
from the north. On the other 
side of the wall is the orchard, 
where in spring, fruit trees are 
sure to be blossoming—cherry, plum, pear, and apple 
in succession; and beyond the hedge lies the kitchen 
garden, where peas and beans, wall-fruit trees, and 
currants, and gooseberries, have much to offer to the bees 
before the summer flowers are fairly ready for them. 
Behind the hives, the hedge is covered late in spring 
with the little white spires of privet blossom, and a 
tangled vine of honeysuckle which climbs among it, puts 
forth thick clusters of its trumpet-shaped florets; while 
before the hives are laid out beds of every variety of 
flowers more or less honey-yielding, to tempt the bees 
when they do not care to roam farther. Of all the 








   


 . 


dwellers in our gardens, bees are the only ones for whom 
we provide dwellings. How do we explain this kindness 
to the little creatures? Why do we furnish them with 
these snug straw dome-shaped hives, and take care that 
they have about them all the flowers, and blossoms 
possible which can supply them with food ? 

We will answer these questions by pretending, after 
the manner of fables, to have heard a conversation 
between an old and a young bee, buzzed out one morning 
early in spring. 

Young Bee (taking one of his first flights from the 
hive, and noticing the outside aspect of the home in 
which he was born): “Dear me! what a beautiful large 
house we live in! How grandly formed it is, and how 
thick its walls are. That is the reason I suppose why 
we are so snug and warm inside. Did you old bees 
make it last season?” 

Old Bee: “ Bless me, no, young one—we only make 
the combs inside it. These hives are made of twisted 
stalks of corn which we have nothing to do with, and 
never can get a drop of honey out of. Men make hives 
—which are, as you say, very snug and warm, but not 
after all so difficult to make, or requiring such great 
precision as our combs inside them.” 

Young Bee: “Well! now I do think men are kind 
to us bees. Why, they don’t make homes like these 
hives for the butterflies or beetles, or caterpillars—or 
even for the wasps, do they?” 

Old Bee (buzzing rather sulkily): “No! they do not 


 . 


   


—but I can’t say I see that that proves any great 
kindness to us bees. In former days, and even now in 
other countries, bees get on very well without these great 
conical straw hives (Old Bee used this word conical 
because he and his fellow bees are considered very 
clever mathematicians by nature). They used to make 
their nests, and form their combs in hollow trees, and 
holes in rocks and banks; and it did very well—perhaps 
better on some accounts than these hives, where we are 
always cramped for room.” 

Young Bcc: “Holes in rocks and hollow trees better 
than these grand gold coloured domes! Well, I must 
say I do not agree with you, old worker.” 

Old Bee: “ Don’t you, young bee; then all I can say 
Is, wait till the Autumn ! Wait till you, and I, and all the 
nest of us, have toiled, and moiled, and gathered honey 
from this blossom and that blossom, this flower and that 
flower, from morn till night, and from day to day the 
whole summer long. Up, and out, and at work every 
morning soon after sun-rise, and leaving off only at sun¬ 
down—backwards and forwards to the hive with our 
loads, through the long summer day, and only allowing 
ourselves just a little sip of honey now and then for our 
own food. Never thinking of anything but how we can 
get enough to store up for the wants of our people at 
home, while at other times we are labouring inside the 
hive at cell-making, to stow it all in for the winter, and to 
use as cradles for our young ones. And when summer 
is over—then see what they do with us ? and our beautiful 


So 


 . 


combs all brimful of golden honey ! Very kind of them 
indeed to spare some of onr lives (mine, for instance, last 
autumn), so that we may be able to build more combs 
and fill them with honey the next summer again. Why, 
you inexperienced, silly young bee! When you’re a 
little older and wiser, you'll find that the hive-making, 
and the sparing of our lives too, when the flower season 
is over, is all in order that they may get every drop of 
our honey that they want for their uses, uses—abuses, 
abuses, buz, buz;” and thus ending his discourse, the 
old bee flies away, anxious after all to get to business 
again. The young bee, stunned at first with dismay 
at the terrible revelation made to him by age and 
experience, settles for a moment in sad contemplation 
on the tip of a tulip bud, and then catching the scent 
of some daffodils near at hand, flies off, and is soon 
buried in the cup of one of them, lapping up the sweet 
syrup at the bottom with his wonderful tongue, and by 
the time he meets the old bee again on their return 
home, with stomachs loaded with honey, he has forgotten 
all about the knowledge imparted to him in the morning, 
and both creep in very contentedly at the little entrance 
to the hive, troubling themselves very little about the 
selfishness of hive-making and honey-stealing men. 

We human beings do keep bees, in order that we may 
take possession of a good portion of their honey, but 
we are glad also to have them as dwellers in our gardens, 
because we like to observe their very curious ways and 
works. We feel interested in the little creatures, because 


 .      

although they differ so greatly from us in size and form, 
they are like us in some of their qualities, and in many 
of their doings. Bees have skill and industry, and fore¬ 
thought like men. They are clever in providing for 
their present wants, and have a strange knowledge of 
what awaits them in the future, as if, like men, they learnt 
it from their parents or from books. They know, for 
instance, or seem to know, quite as well as men, that 
flowers do not last all through the year, and out of their 
mysterious consciousness of this fact, arises all their 
industry and the exercise of much of their skill. They 
feel somehow that they have no time to lose—that they 
must waste no hour of the sunshine which opens the 
flowers, and they seem aware that in the coming flower¬ 
less season they would starve unless they had a store 
of honey for their use. They act just like men who 
work for their own support and that of their families, 
and who save up, and invent and plan in order to provide 
for the future; and they are even better than men in so 
doing, because it is for their fellow citizens and neighbours 
that they exercise their powers—while like men they live 
together in large communities, working together peace¬ 
fully, and seem to be obedient to the laws which keep 
them in order, and enable them to carry out plans 
successfully. They divide their labours and help one 
another, some doing one thing, and some another, like 
the workmen in large factories, all performing a certain 
amount of work suited to them, which they perform most 
accurately and perfectly, and yet not so very mechanically, 


G 


<S   . 

but that on some occasions they appear to think about 
it, and when they meet with obstacles adopt means of 
overcoming them. For all these reasons, we like to 
observe and to learn all we can of their curious natures. 

Thousands of years ago, in the grand old times of 
Greece and Rome, when there were great thinkers and 
poets, and naturalists among the people, there were these 
who observed and wrote about bees, and considered 
them most worthy of study. The Greeks called them 
by a name which meant “ flower-loving,” and the 
Romans by one which meant “ honey-bearing.” In the 
ancient books of the Jewish people, which form the 
Old Testament, we know how frequently bees and honey 
are mentioned, and how their country was described 
as a land “flowing with milk and honey,” which meant 
that plenty of cattle were upon the hills, and plenty of 
bees in the valleys; and from our being told in the New 
Testament, that John the Baptist lived in the desert 
on “locusts and wild honey,” it would seem that in 
those days people in towns and villages kept bees in 
their gardens as we do at this time. 

The interest and curiosity felt in the ways and doings 
of bees, have led some persons in modern times, to 
devote a large portion of their lives to the study and 
observation of them, and from time to time they have 
got at the truth about the little creatures, so as to set 
aside many wrong notions entertained formerly. Glass 
bee-hives, and wooden hives with glass windows to them 
covered with shutters, have been invented in order 


 . 


   

that they may be watched at their work inside, and 
especially when in the act of constructing combs, but 
although these have helped us to learn a good deal 
about them, it is still difficult to detect all their secrets, 
and to find out somp of their doings from the great 
crowd of bees engaged upon their work, just when we 
want most to observe them. In a large and well stocked 
hive there will sometimes be as many as fifteen thousand 
bees, so that the separate movements and performances 
of a single bee at work can scarcely ever be detected, 
though what is done and produced by the whole 
community is very well known. 

In every nest or hive of what are called “honey or 
hive bees,” to distinguish them from other bees who 
do not store up honey, and who live solitary lives (like 
the humble bees which we often see in our gardens), there 
are three kinds—the males (or drones), the females, and 



Drone. Female, or Worker, or 

Queen Bee. Neuter. 


the workers, and it is these last who are the honey- 
eatherers, the cell-builders, and those who best deserve 


G   



   


 . 


the title of “busy bees.” These workers used to be 
called neuters, and were supposed to be neither males 
nor females, but are now known to be imperfect females 
—stunted in their growth, and incapable of laying eggs. 
They seem, however, quite capable of constant labour for 
the good of others, and take upon themselves the care of 
the whole bee family; and it is they who have all the 
peculiar bee talents and skill. The males do nothing in 
the way of work, and are treated with little respect, while 
it only matters to the hive that there should be one 
female bee, who is to become the mother of a future 
generation of bees. She is called the Queen, because 
from the devotion and reverence paid to her it used to be 
fancied that somehow she governed the rest of the popu¬ 
lation ; but this was a wrong notion, and it is very certain 
that she issues no commands and exacts no obedience, 
but is only valued very highly by all the rest, and is taken 
great care of, because she is to be the sole mother of the 
future race. As for the males or drones, we need hardly 
say that they are a very idle set; not even going out to 
gather honey for themselves, but waiting to be fed at 
home, and only taking a little flight occasionally from the 
hive for their health or pleasure, like lazy gentlemen. It 
has been thought by some people that they act as water- 
carriers to the hive, and by others that they sat on the 
eggs to hatch them; but all we are sure of is that they 
mostly stay at home, and may help to keep up the heat 
of the hive when the workers are away, and that from 
among them the queen chooses the husband who be- 


 .    

comes the father of her future progeny. The drones 
have broad bodies and blunt tails, while the bodies of the 
female bees or queens are much longer and more slender, 
and their wings somewhat shorter than those of the 
workers. These last are the smallest of the three kinds 
of bee in a hive, and it is these whom we see gathering 
honey and pollen from flowers, and who at home pro¬ 
duce the wax and build the cells for the reception of the 
eggs and for the storing of the honey, and who, when the 
eggs are hatched, take charge of the young larvae or grubs, 
and feed and tend them most carefully. In each hive or 
nest of bees there are usually ten times as many working- 
bees as there are males or drones. 

As there are three kinds of bees in a hive, so are there 
three kinds of material gathered by them to supply the 
wants of the hive—the nectar of flowers, which becomes 
honey ; the farina, or pollen, of flowers ; and another 
substance which they get from trees, called propolis , or 
bee-glue. The two first of these substances are found in 
most flowers, but in some is obtained more nectar, and in 
others more pollen. If we pull a single flower to pieces, 
we can mostly detect the little nectary at the base of the 
style in which the sweet syrup is found which is lapped 
up by the bee, as well as the little oblong bag at the end 
of the stamens called the anther , which when a flower is 
fully blown splits open and sheds its contents—a white, 
yellow, red, or brown powder on the style or bunch of 
styles in the centre. This pollen the bee is as careful to 
collect as honey. It is not swallowed like the nectar, but 


   


 . 


is taken home in little hollow pouches which are in the 
hind-legs of the workers, and which serve them as 
baskets, while the hairy ends of their legs help them to 
brush up and collect the powder. Sometimes when a 
flower is very full of pollen, like that of the mallow or 
hollyhock, the little creatures will quite roll themselves in 
it, and go home to the hive covered with the powder, 
which they are relieved of by other workers at home, who 
knead it into bee-bread for the hungry grubs in the cells, 
of which it forms the sole food. The substance called 
propolis , or bee-glue, is found on different kinds of trees, 
such as the poplar, the fir tree, and the horse-chesnut, 
from which oozes out a sticky kind of resin to protect the 
young buds. Bees use this as a sort of cement to stop 
up crevices and cracks of the hive, and to varnish the 
cell-work of the combs when filled and closed up, and 
they have it ready also to cover up and embalm as it 
were any noxious body which may happen to get within 
the hive. Many other creatures, such as moths, wasps, 
snails, and ants, attracted perhaps by the smell of honey, 
will get into a hive, and soon fall victims to their bold¬ 
ness; and after stinging the intruder to death, if they 
are too large to be removed, the bees will cover them 
over with propolis, as if to embalm them, and have been 
known even to take a snail prisoner who was about to 
enter a hive, by glueing down the edge of the shell to 
the hive stand, and thus converting his house into his 
prison. 

It may now be asked—where do bees obtain the wax 


 . 


§  


with which they construct their cells, and which when 
the combs are emptied of honey, becomes such a useful 
substance to us for candles and many other purposes? 
The answer must be, that wax is honey which has been 
digested in the stomach of the bees, and which is 
secreted from it in little scales which ooze out from 
between the overlapping plates which cover the stomach 
or abdomen outside, like a little coat of mail. When 
this substance is wanted for cell building, the .bees do 
not get rid of the honey with which their stomachs are 
filled, but hang themselves up in clusters—the fore-legs 
of one holding to the hind-legs of another, and so 
making a number of loops of bees, all hanging together 
s:ill and quiet, until the contents of their stomachs are 
quite digested, and the little wax scales are formed. Other 
workers then come and take these from them, and cany 
them to the wax-workers and cell-builders, who knead 
them together for use, just as masons make a mass of 
mortar before they begin to build walls. 

There seems to be always a careful division of 
labour among the working bees in a hive, so that 
while’ one party goes forth to gather materials another 
party stays at home to build cells or attend to the 
young. Some observers think that certain workers are 
always wax-workers, and others always nurse-bees, but 
it is not certain if this be the case, though it is very 
certain that while the wax-workers are busy over cell¬ 
making, and cannot attend to their own wants, they 
are most carefully supplied with honey by their fellow- 


 S 


 . 


labourers who have brought home a supply of honey. 
It is perhaps most natural to fancy that those bees 
who are engaged in cell-building must have a particular 
talent for the work which the others do not possess. It 
is one thing for a bee to be able to discover in each 
flower-cup or bell, the part which holds the sweet syrup 
he wants to get at, and to be able to pack up pollen in 
the little pair of panniers which his thighs are furnished 
with, and take it all home; and quite another thing to 
be able to form the little six-sided cells, so wonder¬ 
fully accurate in size and shape, which are used for 
storing up the honey, and as cradles for the young— 
the walls of each exactly the right shape for taking up the 
least material and occupying the least space. It is said 
that someone once asked a clever mathematician to find 
out what was the best form for taking the least room and 
using the least material when a number of small chambers 
had to be built close together, and he calculated and 
measured, and then decided that there was no form so 
advantageous as the six-sided, or hexagonal form, which 
is adopted by bees for their cells all over the world. 

The combs formed in a hive are composed of two 
layers of these six-sided cells, placed end to end, 
and these ends being each like a little pyramid formed 
of three sides, they fit in to one another with no 
space between, and as each bee makes his own cell 
complete the sides and ends of each cell are double. 
It has been thought by some naturalists that each 
bee only tries to make a tube-shaped cell, with round 


 . 


   


end like a veiy long and narrow thimble, and that it 
is the pressure of all the little workers one against 
the other, and the soft nature of the wax, which 
causes the walls and ends of each cell to be angular, 
since each bee works with six neighbours around him 
and three at the end. Even if this notion should be 
the correct explanation, it still leaves the art of bees 
most wonderful in the exactness with which they work 
at the same distance apart from each other, and 
in the many expedients they adopt to suit their work 
to their purposes. 


Portion of Comb, shewing 
how the cells are placed 
end to end, forming the 
thickness of the comb. 



When bees are employed in building up a comb, 
they work so fast and in such great numbers that a 
piece of comb containing four thousand cells has 
been found to be completed in twenty-four hours 
by its industrious architects—that number perhaps 
being employed upon it. The outer ends of all the 
cells are at first left open. Those which are intended 
as storehouses for the honey have to be gradually filled 













 ° 


 . 


with the little loads brought home in the stomachs 
or rather honey-bags of the busy workers, after rifling the 
flowers, and each cell is only covered over and sealed 
up with wax when filled to the very brim. Cells wanted 
for the young brood are made rather larger than those for 
honey, and are left open until the queen or mother-bee 
has dropped into each of them a single egg, and even 
then are not closed, because from each egg will be 
hatched a small white grub, or larva , which has to be 
carefully fed for a time on the bee-bread, made of pollen 
meal, which the nurse-bees bring to them and drop into 
their little wax cradles. When the grub is at last ready 
to spin itself a cocoon and change into the chrysalis 
state, the cell is closed up, and it is left to undergo this 
change in quiet and secresy; and by-and-by the chrysalis, 
or pupa , is transformed into the perfect insect, and eats 
its way out of its native cell to enter upon the life of a 
bee. After this there are to be no more changes, except 
in the nature of its business, and it has only to shake out 
its wings, and then sally forth from the hive into the 
beautiful outer world of sunshine and flowers, with the 
soft air around, filled with enticing scents from all the 
nectar cups that it may sip from, just as its fancy pleases. 
What a change from the dark, hot hive ! 

And on this coming forth from the hive, how wonder¬ 
fully is the little creature’s body provided with all that is 
needed for the business and pleasure of its life. First of 
all, its four gauzy wings, which enable it to mount up into 
the air, and of which the muscles which give them motion 


 . 


    


are so strong that they can fly sometimes as far as two 
miles and back again without fatigue. The two hind- 
wings are smaller and more delicate than the front pair, 
and in flight are caught to the latter by means of very 
small hooks, so that they seem but one pair of wings, and 
When the bee is at rest are folded beneath the larger and 
stronger wings. Then come the six 
jointed legs, the hind pair being fur¬ 
nished with hollow pouches which serve 
to carry home to the hive the pollen 
and little pellets of propolis, or bee- 
glue. These small receptacles are lined 
with a smooth horny substance, to which 
the pollen does not adhere, and around 
their edges stands out a fringe of strong 
bristles, which prevent the contents 
carried from falling out, while the hairs 
on all the legs, and especially those on 

Hind-leg of Bee, 

the feet, serve as brushes to sweep up showing the pollen 
the pollen. pouch. 

The proboscis of a bee is a most curious little tool, or 
rather a collection of little tools, all of which have no 
doubt their meaning and purpose, and are used in all the 
different works which the busy creature spends its life in 
performing. The microscope shows us that it can be 
opened out into five different parts, the centre one of 
which is a long flexible tongue, which can be bent in 
every direction as it licks or laps up the nectar in the 
flowers,, for a bee neither sucks up its food with a spongy 



   


 . 


proboscis like a fly, nor with a long tube like a butterfly. 
At the bottom of the tongue we see the oblong bag 
into which the sweet juice is gathered, and where it 
undergoes the change which turns it into honey. On 

each side of the tongue are two jointed 
parts something like fingers, which are 
supposed to be used in gathering up 
the pollen, and perhaps also in knead¬ 
ing it into bee-bread, and it may be 
also in moulding the wax in cell¬ 
making. These parts, or organs, as 
well as the tongue, can be shut up 

in the two outer sheaths, which are 

» 

smooth and horny, and furnished with 
bristles, so that the proboscis then forms one sharp- 
pointed tool, which is probably used in cutting and 
modelling wax, but as we can neither take our micro¬ 
scopes into the heart of a flower nor get into a hive 
with them, people who have even spent their lives in 
observing the ways of bees are obliged to guess how the 
little case of instruments is turned to account. But we 
can judge how admirably each one must serve its pur¬ 
pose by the accuracy and perfection of the works 
performed with it. 

Perhaps the eyes of bees are still more wonderful 
instruments, and they have what may be called two 
different sets of them. First, two large eyes on each side 
of the head, composed of a multitude of separate little 
eyelets, each with a single hair standing out from its 




 . 


   


border, so that the whole eye is thus covered with a 
hairy covering which must protect it from the fine pollen 
dust when busy in the heart of a flower. Besides these 
two compoicnd eyes, it has three other eyes in the front of 
its head, the use of which is not very certain, but since a 
bee has to work in the dark hive as well as in the bright 
sunshine, it may be that these are used when at home. 
Bees must also have a very acute sense of smell, guiding 
them even to great distances in search of flowers which 
send forth scent, and it is thought by some that their an¬ 
tennae or feelers are the organs of smell, while it would 
seem as if they also were used in communicating with 
each other, and that their delicate touch helps the wax 
worker in his cell-building. 

The sting of a bee is composed of a sharp stiletto, 
which first pierces and then pours poison into the wound 
it makes, and is such a formidable weapon of defence 
that we are careful to leave them undisturbed at their 
labours. When a bee is dissected, it is found to have 
two quite separate stomachs. The first is used as a 
honey-bag, in which the nectar of flowers is collected, 
and where it undergoes the change which makes it honey 
when it is disgorged on returning to the hive. The 
second stomach is that in which the honey is changed 
still more and becomes wax. It is like a cask with 
hoops on the inside, and has openings through which the 
wax oozes, in the form of tiny scales, which lie under the 
overlapping plates that cover the stomach outside like 
tiles. These little cases in which the wax is found are 
sometimes called wax pocket *, 


   


 . 


When bees are making their combs they begin at the 
top and work downwards, and the different combs in a 
hive are built side by side, about half-an-inch apart, so 
that the workers can easily get at each side of them, and 
pass each other when at work in crowds. The combs are 
about two inches in thickness, just what the length of 
two cells placed end to end makes them. The French 
call them “gateaux de miel,” or “cakes of honey,” and 
such as come out of our round hives are not unlike thick 
cakes rounded at the edge; but when bees have their 
nests in the hollow trunks of large trees, they will some¬ 
times go on increasing the size of a comb until it is a 
yard or more in length. In those combs which are in¬ 
tended for the broods, there are a few cells in each hive 
made much larger than the rest, and of an oblong shape, 
with the hollow within something like the inside of a 
small thimble ; and these are prepared for the female 
bees, one of which is intended to be a future queen— 
such cells, so different from the ordinary six-sided cells, 
being placed quite apart at the edge of the comb.* When 
an egg is hatched which has been laid in one of these royal 


* The cell intended for a royal cell is formed like an inverted 
acorn cup (as on right side of the annexed cut), when the queen bee 
deposits a single egg in it, which adheres to the end. The workers 
then enlarge the cell by adding more and more wax to it, until it 
becomes the size and shape of the cells represented on the left side 
of cut. When the grub is hatched from the egg it lies along the cell 
head downwards, ready to be fed, and only when about to change 
to a chrysalis is the cell closed at the bottom. In the upper cell is 
shown where the perfect queen bee has made her escape. 


 . 


   


cells, the little grub has the greatest care and attention 
bestowed upon it. It is fe'd w r ith a sort of rich pap 
made of pollen and honey, and has a greater amount of 
food given to it than the rest, so that it becomes in time 
the large and slender-shaped bee which is fitted to 
become the queen-mother to a future race of bees. 



Portion of Comb, shewing ordinary cells, closed and 
open, and Royal or Queen’s cells. 


When it happens that a young queen has come to 
perfection, the old queen would seem to consider it 
time to establish a new community; and suddenly, 
some warm day in autumn, she leaves the nest, and, 
surrounded by crowds of drones and workers, rises up 
into the air, and after whirling about for some time, 
they all settle at last on some bough of a tree not far off 
























    


TEE DWELLERS IN OUR GARDENS. 


from the old hive, and seem to deliberate what next to 
do. We scarcely know what course would be taken by 
the party of emigrants, if left to themselves; for directly 
it is found that the bees of a hive are leaving it—or 
beginning to “swarm,” as it is called—a new hive is 
brought out, and the cluster of bees is swept into it, 
taking care that the queen does not escape, and before 
many hours are over the new community is found to be 
building up wax combs within, and going abroad to 
collect honey, and pollen, and bee-glue, and living the 
usual life of bees, and working at their usual works. 

Besides the hive or honey bees, we perhaps see many 
other species of bees in our gardens in the course of a 
summer, since there are as many as two hundred and fifty 
different kinds found in England; many of these are 
what are called solitary bees, and instead of living in 
communities like our hive bees, make themselves little 
caves or burrows in banks and underground, and collect 
only honey and pollen sufficient for their own food and 
that of their young. Some of them, after forming balls 
of a kind of paste made of honey and pollen, lay two 
or three eggs in it, so that when the grubs are hatched 
the next spring, long after the cold of winter has killed 
the parent bees, they have a supply of food around them 
upon which they feed until the time comes for changing 
into the chrysalis form, after which they become perfect 
bees. Another kind of solitary bee makes most curious 
nests or cells for its eggs, formed of oval pieces of rose- 
leaf which it cuts out with its proboscis with great pre- 


 . 


   



Leaf-cutting Bee. 

The bee we most often notice in our gardens, is, 
perhaps, the large handsome bee with the black and 
yellow velvet-like coat which we call the humble bee. 
On hot summer days we are sure to hear his loud sleepy 

H 


cision and carries to its subterranean home, and then 
sticks together, one little portion of leaf being bent 
round and laid upon another until a little thimble-shaped 
cell is formed. 



















  S 


 . 


hum as he hovers among our flowers, and can observe 
him tumbling as it were, into widely opened flowers, and 
such as have tubes and cups large enough to admit him, 
and we see how sure he is .to come out of them covered 
with white, red, or yellow pollen according to their kind 
which has clung to his back and legs. The humble bees 
live in small communities of at most two or three 
hundred, using as a nest some hollow in a bank or a 
burrow underground which has been made by some other 



Garden Humble Bee (Bombus Hortorum). 

creature. They only gather honey enough to serve for 
their food and for wax secreting, and fox mixing with 
pollen to make pap or bee-bread for the grubs. Many 
females live in their communities, so that they have not 
a queen bee to whom they pay such attention and 
deference as in hives. Their ways are also much less 
regular and methodical than hive bees, for they build no 
combs and their cells are neither packed closely together 
nor are they six-sided, but are round and oblong like 
little jars or pots, while cocoons and balls of bee-bread 
in which are the eggs, and jars of honey and pollen are 
found in their nests all piled together in seeming disorder. 


 . 


   


But though the humble bee stores up no honey which 
we human beings can appropriate, and do not appear to 
be as clever or careful as hive bees, yet it has been 
discovered by naturalists that this species of bee per¬ 
forms unconsciously a very important office in carrying 
on their silken coats the fertilizing pollen which some 
flowers require to have brought to them before they can 
bear seed or fruit; and they have also remarked that such 
bees are in the habit of going to flowers of one kind only 
during each excursion from home, by which means the 
pollen of one flower is not carried to that of another kind. 

And now we must return again to our account of the 
honey or hive bee, not attempting, however, to tell all 
the particulars of their doings within the hive, which those 
who have observed and watched them very closely, have 
from time to time discovered. It is less difficult to find 
out some of their ways when abroad collecting honey 
and pollen and propolis. We find that they stay away 
from the hive about half an hour when in search of 
honey, and a little less than this time when collecting 
pollen, while they will occasionally make still longer 
journeys if such an inducement comes as a field of clover 
or of beans in blossom, which attracts them from afar by 
their sweet perfume; and they will also make longer flights 
to get at a stream of water, of which they are very fond, 
and perhaps use within the hive in kneading pollen and 
wax. As we watch them among the' flowers of our 
gardens, they seem very fanciful and capricious, as they 
flit about taking honey from one flower on a plant and 


H   


IOO 


 . 


leaving others untouched, collecting pollen from one 
flower-bell, and leaving others equally full of it for their 
fellow-labourers. Some flowers have evidently tubes too 
long for them to send their tongues down to the bottom, 
and some are too narrow for the entrance of their bodies ; 
these they are obliged to leave for the long proboscis of 
some butterfly or moth. Sometimes, as with the short 
narrow-tubed flowers of the jasmine, whose scent has 
attracted them, they contrive to get at the sweet juice by 
piercing a hole at the bottom of the tube. In the flowers 
of the snapdragon, though the lips of the corolla seem 
so firmly closed, bees will force themselves in, and get 
out of the little flower-trap again, which opens with a 
spring, and snaps to again after they have made their 
escape; and here the bee has it all to himself, as no moth 
or butterfly could perform the same exploits. In the 
flower of the honeysuckle, with its narrow tubes, we have 
wondered how the plant came to be so frequented by 
bees, and have found that the abundant nectar of each 
little floret runs down the style in the centre and hangs 
about the small knob or stigma at the end, so that it is 
easily licked off by the bee. 

The honey, or, rather, nectar of flowers (for it is 
not properly called honey until it has undergone a 
change in the stomach of the bee) is yielded in different 
quantities and is different in quality according to the 
season and the time of day. No time is so favourable 
for honey gathering as the early morning, when flowers 
are first opening out to the sun, and before the 


 . 


IOT 


nectar has been evaporated by its warmth. A story 
is told of some peasants of Bavaria, in a district of that 
country where hives were so generally kept and made a 
profit of, that a sort of rivalry was kept up as to the 
quantity of honey each bee-master could obtain from 
his hives. It was found year after year that one old man 
was constantly able to get more honey than any of his 
neighbours, although his bees had just the same flowery 
fields and hills to wander over as their own. What could 
be the cause of his success? Puzzled and jealous, the 
others at last accused him of witchcraft, and the old bee- 
master had to explain that the simple cause of the mystery 
was that he had taken care to place his hives in a south- 
easternly direction, so that his bees being awakened up 
by the warm rays of the sun as it rose, and sallying 
forth the earliest, got the freshest and sweetest and 
most abundant harvest of honey. 

Beekeepers in many countries are in the habit of 
moving their hives to fresh districts when the honey 
about them has been exhausted, or the season for 
some honey-bearing flowers is to be found elsewhere. 
A peasant will take his hive on his back to some 
heather-covered hill many miles off; and in Switzer¬ 
land the inhabitants of the valleys will send their 
hives up to the care of the herdsmen who are watching 
their flocks on the mountain side. In Egypt, where 
along the valley of the Nile the season for particular 
flowers varies according as the districts where they grow 
are further to the south, the peasants will send their 


  0  


 . 


hives up the river, each numbered so as to be claimed 
again; and then a boat freighted with numbers of them 
will be allowed to float slowly down the stream, while 
the bees go forth to gather rich harvests on the banks, 
getting the perfumed honey from the orange blossoms of 
one district, from the sweet jasmine of another, and the 
roses of others, as they come into bloom. 

Other creatures besides men are fond of honey, espe¬ 
cially bears, and in America the bee-hunters will make 
use of these animals to track the bees to the hollow trees 
in which are their nests. The bear’s sense of smell is quick 
in detecting where honey is stored within, and after 
rubbing their noses against the bark will begin to gnaw a 
hole in the trunk. Some other creatures will capture bees 
themselves for the sake of the honey in their stomachs. A 
toad, it is said, will sit under a stand of hives, ready to 
pounce on any stray bee which may alight near him, and 
tom-tits in some parts of England are called bee-biters, 
from their practice of tapping at the walls of hives with 
their beaks, which bringing out bees as if to inquire 
“Who is there?” they are snapped up. To prevent the 
entrance of a particular kind of moth very fond of honey, 
bees are said sometimes to make winding passages at the 
entrance of their hives of wax and propolis, only just 
wide enough to admit their own bodies. 

The stings of bees—their very formidable weapons of 
defence—make it not an easy matter to rob their 
hives each autumn of a portion of the honey made 
in the summer, each hive being like a little fortress 


 . 


  0  


full of thousands of well-armed soldiers, ready to 
resist any attempt to carry off the contents of the 
treasure chambers within it. In former days, it used 
to be the common custom to destroy the whole of 
the bees in a hive, and to capture all the combs, 
but a more humane method is now adopted of merely 
stupifying the bees for a time, and then leaving within 
the hive sufficient honeycomb to supply their wants 
during the winter. We do not scruple to help our¬ 
selves to some of their honey, and consider that we have 
as good a claim to it, as to the milk of the cow, or the 
wool and flesh of the sheep. Before men discovered how 
to make sugar from the juice of a tropical cane, the 
honey of bees supplied to them a want—for by nature we 
are made to desire sweet food; but now honey may be 
looked upon only as a luxury for which we are indebted 
to these little creatures, and the increase in our know¬ 
ledge of their ways and works makes us more reluctant 
to destroy their lives unnecessarily. The natural life of 
a bee, too, is not a long one, and though a queen bee 
will sometimes be found to have lived as long as three 
years, becoming during that time the mother of perhaps 
a million of offspring, yet the laborious and clever 
working bee seldom lives longer than a year and a half 
at the most, while the male bees either die a natural 
death in the autumn or are not allowed to live through the 
winter to consume the stores to which they have never 
added, and are deliberately put to death by the stings of 
the workers. 


  0  


 . 


And during that short life of the working bee, how 
curiously varied are her labours and doings ! First a 
small grey grub, eating voraciously the loaves of bee- 
bread popped into her little cradle-cell by careful 
nurses. Then after growing very fast, beginning on a 
sudden to spin and weave, wrapping herself up in a close 



fitting garment of silk as if even the privacy of the waxen 
cells were not enough to conceal her while undergoing 
the mysterious transformation, during which the almost 
shapeless body is supplied with wings, legs, feelers, 
proboscis, tongue, and sting; a honey-making stomach, 
and another for secreting wax. And when as a perfect 
bee, she has come forth and become, first a diligent 
searcher after flower-nectar, and flower-meal, and tree- 
resins—after bread-making and wax-secreting, and wax- 
kneading, she exercises at last the highest of her powers 
and becomes a skilful architect, executing on what are 





 . I0  

like very scientific principles, and with the greatest ac¬ 
curacy and precision those works which may be said to 
have been the wonder of the whole world in all ages. 

And then when all is over and the short life of the 
busy worker-bee is ended, we may be sure that the little 
creature has had a pleasurable existence, and that the 
exercise of all her industry and skill has brought her 
a species of satisfaction—that her labours have been 
labours of love, and after all to her, Work has been only 
that which we call Happiness. 







































io  


 . 


  VI. 

OUR GARDEN CHORISTERS. 

MONG the boughs and branches 
of our garden trees, which serve 
them for singing galleries, our 
choristers begin their performances 
very early in each year; even 
before the buds have opened out 
and spread over them their canopies of green leaves, 
we find out some sunny morning, by the singing of 
birds, that spring must certainly have come. We 
even seem to recognise the very same set of choristers 
chirping their “matins,” and singing their madrigals, 
as performed on the very same boughs the year 
before; and if some new members have been added 
to the choir in the place of old favourites, we 
may be pretty sure that they are the offspring of 
choristers we have formerly heard, and have learned 
their different notes from their parents. The same 
warbling and whistling, interspersed with little chirps 
and twitters—the same trills, and quavers, and gurglings, 
and-pipings of each, according to its kind; in fact, we 
have heard the young birds practising these very notes 
soon after they were fledged in the former year, and 



 .   0  

know well how, after beginning with faint twitters and 
small “peep-peeps,” they managed at last to bring out 
the same notes as the parent birds, who had fed and 
tended them so carefully from the time they had come 
out of the egg. All the notes, no matter how they differ 
from each other according to the species of bird, seem 
to express but one feeling among them. All this gushing 
out of sweet sounds seems to say, “ How happy we are ! 
How pleasant this sunshine is again! How we are all 
going to enjoy ourselves now winter is gone!” One 
thing very certain is, that the singing of birds is not to 
give us pleasure alone, and by-and-by we shall find that 
it is not even to give vent only to the joy of living, and 
feeling the pleasant air and the warm sunshine, nor 
because they are satisfied to find that the soil is again 
soft and damp, so that worms and slugs may be expected, 
and that the buds begin to swell, promising future cater¬ 
pillars and grubs, but because the male birds, who are the 
principal singers, have each a mate to choose for the 
coming season, and must make himself agreeable, and 
win the affections of that particular hen-bird of its kind 
with whom he has chanced to form an acquaintance. 

As that wren pours forth its delicate trilling, as if it 
would crack its little throat, we may find on a bough very 
near at hand a young “Jenny” wren sitting, listening at¬ 
tentively with her head a little on one side. She thinks 
it no doubt a most charming song, and knows quite well 
that it is intended for her. She feels herself chosen as 
the mate of the singer, and is satisfied that her career in 


io  


 . 


that year’s life should be settled. And so with the young 
thrush who sits perched on a laburnum tree near our 
window, pouring forth all the lovely notes he learned 
from his parent the last summer. He means to have a 
mate and a nest of his own this season, and sings his 
very best to attract and please the young hen-thrush who 
is listening to his song on the neighbouring acacia tree. 
And thus with them all. They choose their mates all on 
a sudden, and never change their minds about the 
matter; and the female birds are generally very easy to 
be convinced that the male bird who has come after her 
and sang to her, and plumed his feathers before her, and 
shown off his little airs and graces in her sight, is the 
best and prettiest and most loveable wren, linnet, 
chaffinch, or thrush, as the case may be, in the whole 
garden; and henceforth they are a pair, and there 
becomes but one mind and purpose between them. 

Perhaps our more usual feeling with regard to birds, 
as we merely hear them, is that they are as careless and 
idle as they are happy; but this is to have a very wrong 
notion about them; and at all times amid the pouring 
out of their gladness in song, they are thinking of 
business, and during the greater part of the pleasant days 
of spring and early summer, the birds of our garden are 
as busy as their neighbours, the bees. Singing is all very 
well at the proper time, but when their mates are once 
chosen they have a great deal of important business 
before them, and no time to lose. They have to set 
about building a nest, ready for the eggs which the hen 


 . I Op 

will soon lay—a snug little nest, somewhere out of sight, 
just the right size and form for the number of eggs which 
will lie at the bottom, and for the mother-bird to sit 
comfortably upon them, so as to give them the warmth 
from her body that they will need for coming to per¬ 
fection—and by coming to perfection we mean coming 
to be birds, instead of eggs. 

Let us only watch, as spring advances, the doings of 
birds, and we shall see many tokens of this nest-building 
going on. We shall observe birds with twigs and the 
fibres of plant-roots in their beaks, flitting hastily by. 
Others with long straws streaming after them, of which 
they have tight hold at one end. Others with tufts of 
hay and bits of rag. Others with little flakes of wool, 
which they have found on the brambles of a neighbouring 
common, left by the sheep the year before. Others with 
long hairs from the tails of horses and cows, and others 
with bits of cobweb—in fact, all sorts of materials are 
turned to account in the nests built by different species 
of birds. The whole time and thought, as it were, of 
the busy creatures are engrossed in their task, and every 
flight is engaged in the search for something which can 
be made use of in nest-building; and if they cannot find 
at hand what they want, they will go to considerable 
distances sometimes in search of them, or in some cases 
use substitutes when the nest is wanted in a hurry; though 
each nest is sure under any circumstances to have some¬ 
thing betokening the kind of bird who was its architect, 
A soft pad of wool or hay, old feathers or tufts of down 


no 


 . 


felted together, forms often the foundation of the nests of 
small birds, and then the root fibres, twigs, straw, and 
hay are woven round and round, and twisted in and out, 
and bent and tucked in and plaited together, till all is 
snug and warm and compact, just of the form and size 
to best suit the body of the mother-bird. Some of our 
small birds use a great deal of moss in the construction 
of their nests, such as the chaffinch, who also adorns his 
with little scraps of grey and yellow lichen from the bark 
of the very old apple tree in which he builds it, so that 
it is scarcely distinguishable from the branches. Nothing 
indeed can be more carefully and artfully chosen than 
the nooks in which most of them are placed, whether 
they be hid among the ivy on a wall or in the centre of 
a bushy evergreen, or placed so high up among the 
branches of a tree as to be beyond reach, and concealed 
from sight from below by the foliage. Shelter from wind 
and rain seems one object, and the other concealment 
from prying eyes. Even when we can see that a nest 
has been built in the centre of a hedge, we should 
almost be obliged to pull the hedge to pieces to get at 
it, yet the proprietors have a secret passage of their own 
among the twigs, and find their way in and out to it, 
with the greatest ease. With the swallows, who build 
under the eaves of our house, there is but one kind of 
material needed, since their nests are built up with little . 
beak-fulls of wet clay, the birds travelling backwards and 
forwards with unwearying industry and perseverance to 
the banks of a pond a long flight off to get it. 


 . 


Ill 


Nest-building is a sort of joint concern between the pair 
who are going to set up house-keeping—or, rather, who 
aim at securing the safety and comfort of their future family, 
since the nest is rather a family cradle than a dwelling. 
They choose together the situation where it shall be 
placed, and as the male bird goes on an exploring ex¬ 
pedition, the female may be seen flying after him from 
bush to bush and tree to tree, the male uttering little 
chirps by way of signals to induce her to follow him. 
When the best possible situation is found the building 
commences, the female bird in most instances staying at 
home to weave the materials together, and the male 
going forth to collect them. Nothing can be more 
wonderful, when we come to think of it, than the fact 
that when young and inexperienced birds of any species 
begin to build a nest for their future family, they set 
about it in exactly the same way as their parents did 
before they came into life—each bird of each kind from 
generation to generation making its nest in exactly the 
same way as its ancestor-birds have done. It may seem 
possible that they have some kind of remembrance of 
the snug little home in which each of them first saw 
light—where they first pecked themselves out of the 
egg, and where they had such delicious caterpillars, 
grubs, and flies brought to them by their parents, but 
they can have no remembrance of nest-building, and of 
how to first set about it, and what materials to use, and 
where to build. Each bird builds its nest from the same 
kind of instinct, the same skill that needs no teaching, as 


XI  


 . 


all animals are supplied with, for adapting their lives to 
their nature and wants, while human beings have to learn 
the arts they practise. A poet has so well described this 
natural cleverness on the part of birds, that the lines 
deserve to be given in every book which tells of nest¬ 
building :— 

“Mark it well, within, without ; 

No tool had he to fix, no glue to join, 

No bodkin to insert; his little beak was all ; 

And yet how neatly finished ! 

What nice hand, with all the means and implements of art, 
And twenty years’ apprenticeship to boot, 

Could fashion such another ? ” 



Nest of Missel Thrush. 


By the time the nest is completed, the hen is quite 
ready to lay her eggs in it—three, four, five, six, seven, 
or even with some birds as many as ten or fifteen— 
whitish, blueish, greenish, speckled, or spotted, as 'the 
case may be, and all are laid pretty nearly at the same 
time, since all are hatched nearly together ; and once 



 .       

having settled herself upon them, pressing her soft warm 
breast above them, she never leaves the nest. All the 
food she gets is brought to her by her attentive mate. 
What he likes best himself he brings to her, whether it 
be last year’s seeds or berries, or fresh young worms and 
slugs, or caterpillars picked off leaves, or flies caught on 
the wing. And when after sitting day after day for 
perhaps a couple of weeks, she at last feels or hears the 
first attempts made by a young bird to escape from its 
egg, she helps him to free himself from the shell, and then 
one after another making these attempts, and extricating 
themselves from the eggs, the remains of egg-shell are 
thrown out of the nest, and the young family of soft 
yellow or pale brown little fledglings are ready to be fed. 
They soon make their wants known by the open beaks 
which gape for food, and by the small piping cry from 
their little throats which asks for it as plainly as birds can 
speak. 

Then comes more business for the tender and 
faithful parents, both male and female, whose whole 
concern is now to provide for the helpless little ones. 
Backwards and forwards they may be seen flying with 
the provender which will best suit the tastes and serve as 
nourishment for them. Even the sparrows, which we are 
accustomed to look upon as the most frivolous and 
aimless of birds, are most careful and indefatigable 
providers of food for their young, and have been found 
to feed them as often as thirty-six times in the course of 
an hour. Chaffinches and goldfinches are equally per- 


   


  J   


 . 


severing in flying to and fro in their search for the 
dainty caterpillars and worms, which they bring to their 
young in their snug little oblong nests in the forks of our 



apple-trees. The thrushes begin in the very earliest 
dawn—when we should perhaps still call it night—to 
seek food for their young, and go on feeding them until 
the sun is high in the heavens, and have been found 
by those who have carefully counted their journeys back¬ 
wards and forwards to have fed their young as often as 
two hundred and sixteen times in seven hours. The 
blackbird does not get up quite so early in the morning, 
and yet with its mate will collect an immense number of 
worms and slugs for their young; and among the birds that 
frequent our gardens none are more tender and devoted 
parents in the care of their young fledglings (which are 
scarcely larger than humming birds), than the race of 
titmice, who are found to take small grubs and flies to 


 .       

their nests as often as four hundred and seventy-five 
times in the course of a day. Such birds as those who 
require food for their young which can be obtained in 
great abundance, are often able to hatch and rear two or 
three broods in the year, so that their time is fully 
employed during the whole spring and summer with their 
family duties. 

And all such birds have most cunning ways of 
getting at food for themselves and their young, which 
their sight is most acute in detecting. Their eyes 
have, in fact, the power both of telescopes and micro¬ 
scopes, for they see at great distances, and can perceive 
very small objects. From on high, when flying, they will 
see the worm which has ventured to come above ground, 
and they can also detect upon buds and leaves the very 



small eggs of insects, and minute flies and beetles, which 
we could only see with a magnifying glass. The same 
bird that can distinguish such small objects near to it, 
can see distant objects twenty times further off than men 
and dogs can perceive them. Even in the most rapid 
flights, birds will detect beneath them the objects they are 
in search of for food, and dart upon them with such cer¬ 
tainty and precision that they never fail to capture them. 


     


Il   . 

Although birds are so different in their outward forms 
to quadrupeds, fishes, and reptiles, yet when all the 
animals on the face of the earth are divided into a few 
large divisions (sorted, as it were, into a few sorts), 
according to their internal structure, birds are found to 
be like them in what causes them all to be called ver- 
tebrated animals, which means that they have all spines 
or back-bones, made up of a number of other small 
bones fitting into each other very closely, and making 
one long, strong, and more or less flexible bone, with 
which all the other bones of their bodies are connected. 
The rest of the structure of such animals is more com¬ 
plicated and perfect, and makes their life a higher kind 
of life than that of other animals; and it is because our 
own bodies are formed in so many respects on the same 
plan, that we feel as if we were somehow more nearly 
related to birds than to the other dwellers in our garden 
which we have already described. We have seen how 
bees and ants have some powers and clever ways, which 
have a sort of likeness to the powers and ways of human 
beings, but we know that the forms of their bodies in no 
respect resemble ours. It is not however because birds 
have two eyes, two legs, and that they utter sounds from 
their throats, that they choose their mates, build nests, 
and feed their young, that they are like human beings, 
and that is found this sort of relationship, but because 
in all the bony structures of their bodies, which other¬ 
wise in outward form are so different, there is a great 
resemblance to that of ours, and because many internal 


 . 


      


parts or organs, such as the brain, the heart, the lungs, 
the liver, etc., are like ours. The circulation of warm 
red blood through the arteries and veins of birds is also 
like that of our bodies, as well as the manner in which 
air is taken in by the lungs and changes the nature of the 
blood. 

But birds differ from us so very greatly in one of 
their powers that we are sometimes inclined almost to 
envy them—for what would we not give to be able to 
fly ?—and when we ask ourselves how and why a bird is 
able to fly, we find that it is in all that gives them the 
power of flying, that their bodies are quite unlike ours. 
The forms of their bones, their number and situation, 
such as their spines, skulls, breast bones, ribs, the bones 
of their legs, and each of their wings are a good deal 
like our own, but the .structure of the bones themselves 
is quite different. The bones of human beings and of 
quadrupeds are mostly solid, or have the hollow space 
within them filled up with marrow ; but the bones of birds 
are hollow, and have only air within them, and this 
hollowness, while it makes them much lighter, rend'ers 
them strong in proportion to the quantity of bony matter 
of which they are composed. Besides these hollow 
bones, the whole body of a bird has many cavities and 
passages, which can be filled as well as their bones with 
air from their lungs, and we know how all the longest 
feathers in their wings and tails have hollow parts which 
we call the quills, just where they are inserted into the 
body, and into these quill-feathers air from its lungs can 


IlS  . 

also pass. A bird’s body is thus like a small balloon, 
divided into many compartments, but in order that 
balloons may be buoyant, or ready to rise and float 
in the air, the air inside them must be lighter than the 
surrounding air, or they must be filled with some gas 
which is lighter than common air. Now, as water can 
become exceedingly light, or—which is the same thing— 
turned into steam by heat, so can air be made much 
more rare (or thin) and light by being heated. A fire- 
balloon rises because the air inside it is heated, and so 
made lighter than the surrounding air, and it is found 
that the air within a bird’s body is heated by the quick 
circulation of its blood, which is kept up by its active 
habits. A bird is almost always in motion, except when 
roosting; a large bird taking long flights, and little birds, 
such as we have in our gardens, constantly taking short 
flights, hopping about here and there, and flitting from 
bough to bough and tree to tree. The quantity of food 
which even such small birds consume is also another 
means by which the heat of their bodies is kept up. It 
has been found by experiments that they eat as much or 
more of their kind of food in a day than a man can eat 
of meat in the same time, and while in flight great 
quantities of air must be constantly supplied to their 
lungs. All this exercise and food and air helps to make 
the blood of the bird circulate very rapidly, and renders 
the air in its bones and the other air-cells of its body 
very warm and very light, while its clothing of feathers 
and down prevents the heat being given out to the 
surrounding cold air. 


 . XI  

We cannot examine closely the mechanism of a bird’s 
wing without finding out how wonderfully it is adapted 
for its purpose. We see how accurately and smoothly 
its delicate feathers are lapped one upon another as the 
wing is closed against the side of the body, and how 
easily they are spread out, like the unfurling of a fan, so 
as to beat against the elastic air, which springing back 
again impels the bird upward and onward in its flight. 
But for wings to be turned to account, and used so con¬ 
stantly, the muscles and tendons which connect them 
with the body, and give them motion at the will of the 
bird, are needed to be much stronger in proportion to its 
size than those of a man’s arm, whose bony structure it 
greatly resembles. Men have sometimes fancied they 
might be able to fly by means of wings attached to their 
arms, but have found that their muscles were not strong 
enough for the flapping of wings, even if their bodies 
could be made buoyant enough. The muscles and 
tendons also in the legs of birds are very strong in pro¬ 
portion to their size, and are needed to help them to first 
spring into the air before the wings are expanded, so as 
to present a sufficiently large surface for the air to buoy 
them up. The whole form of a bird’s body is in fact 
such as to assist them in flight. The sharp beak cutting 
the air easily, and acting like the prow of a ship. The 
tail serving as a rudder to steer their course, and the 
wings answering the purpose both of sails and oars. All 
these peculiarities in the bird (and perhaps there are 
others which we do not understand) give the bird its 


   0 


. . 


power of rising into the air, soaring to great heights, and 
flying great distances, without any effort or difficulty. 



The power of birds to sustain themselves in the air, 
and perform long journeys without resting, proves the 
great muscular strength which they possess, and these 
long flights are very remarkable in those birds which 
migrate, and which according as seasons change from 
cold to hot or from hot to cold change their places of 
abode, and fly north or south to other countries, where 
the climate is such as will suit their natures. Some birds 
come to England only during our winter, and cannot 
bear the warmth of our summers, and others come to us 
only for the summer, and leave us when our winter 
approaches. It is these latter who whilst with us lay 
their eggs and rear their young, so that they seem to 
belong to us, but they have so strong an instinct, im¬ 
pelling them to avoid our cold winters, that they have no 
sooner brought up their young than they prepare to leave 
us. The cuckoo does not even stay to hatch or rear her 


 . 


    I 


young, but dropping her eggs into the nests of other 
birds, leaves them to feed her offspring with their own— 
a practice which, however we may admire her curious 
note, and like to hear it as a token of coming summer, 
makes us rather despise her. The migratory bird whom 
we perhaps know most about is the swallow, who does 
not so much dwell in our garden, as he makes our 
dwelling his, by building underneath the eaves of our 
houses his little clay nest. He requires for it just the 
shelter which our roof or some jutting-out ledge affords 
him, and there builds it up of clay or mud, fetched bit 
by bit from the sides of some neighbouring pond, occa¬ 
sionally mixing up with it a little grass or straw, to make 
the clay hold together, as a mason mixes a little horse¬ 
hair in his plaster. When the little earthen cradle is 
formed, the swallow lines it carefully with feathers or 
down, to make it a comfortable bed for the future young, 
and then the female swallow lays her eggs in it, an 
opening having been left at the top large enough to creep 
in and out. When hatched, there is no bird who tends 
and feeds its young more assiduously than the swallow, 
and we see him and his mate the whole day long flying 
backwards and forwards with food for them, the heads of 
the little fledglings popping up at the opening of the 
little clay basket, ready to receive it. When old enough 
to leave the nest, and yet not equal to long flights, we 
may notice them sitting in a row on a tree-branch near 
at hand, waiting to be fed by their parents in turn, and 
when full-grown and strong on the wing, the parent 


     


 . 


birds, having done their duty by them, leave them to 
cater for themselves, and know them no longer. After 
perhaps rearing two broods during the summer months, 
and by the time that autumn has brought cold nights oi 
some early morning frosts, an irresistible impulse fills the 
whole being of the swallows, urging them to seek a warm 
climate and a brighter sky, and all their swallow-friends 
and neighbours have the same impulse within them. 
They appear to understand each other, and to appoint 
a place of meeting, and after collecting together in a 
large flock from every quarter, some fine day about the 
middle of October, they are seen to whirl round and 
round for a while high up in the air, as if to make sure 
of their route, and then start off southwards on their 
air-voyage, flying over land and sea—our channel—the 
continent of France—the Mediterranean—to descend at 
last somewhere we may conclude, among the palm and 
date trees beneath the sunny sky of Africa, there to 
enjoy themselves during the frosts and snow of our 
winter. More than a thousand miles must the swallows 
fly before arriving at the climate they desire to reach, but 
they are found to take a rest sometimes on their way, 
settling for a night on an island of the Mediterranean it 
may be, or crowding the rigging and decks of a vessel 
at sea, or even sometimes allowing themselves to drop 
on to the surface of the sea with their wings expanded, 
so that they are borne up for a while and gain a short 
rest from flight. The instinct to fly away to a warmer 
climate is sometimes so strong in a swallow, that if any*- 


 . 


     


thing has prevented it from completing the rearing of its 
second brood of young before the time when the mi¬ 
gration of its neighbours begins, it will leave them to 
their fate, and join the party of emigrants who are about 
to start on their air-voyage to the south. 

Just when the swallow leaves us, a beautiful little bird 
called the siskin comes to England, to spend the winter, 



Siskin. 


from the north of Europe. He has been born among 
the firs and pines of Norway or Sweden, where his food 
is the seeds of their cones, so that he is mostly to be 
found during his stay with us in plantations and woods 
where these trees grow; but he comes also to our 
gardens when we have larches or other cone-bearing trees* 




     


 . 


where he is as active and agile as the titmouse in search¬ 
ing out his favourite food among their branches. When 
spring returns he flies off home again, to make his nest 
and rear his young in the far north. 

Starlings are also another race of birds who make our 
dwelling theirs for a part of the year, and who then leave 
us after they have reared their young. Up in one of our 
unused chimneys, or behind a parapet, or in some roof- 
gutter, they make their spacious nests of sticks and straw 
and moss, and there rear their family. They are a noisy, 
bustling, fussy set of birds, making all manner of odd 
squeaks and pipings, and seeming always to be scrambling 
and shuffling about, as we overhear their doings from 
some room beneath the roof. One can scarcely fancy 
them to be the same birds when we see them handsome 
and spruce walking about our lawns, with their long glossy 
brown backs and mottled breasts, picking up worms and 
slugs. The young starlings and their parents seem to 
keep together and live as one family longer than most 
other birds, even after the former are well able to pro¬ 
vide for themselves; and then, as autumn cold sets in, 
they suddenly take their departure, joining some convoy 
of starlings about to seek a pleasanter climate than ours; 
and we are not sorry to lose them, though the chances 
are that the same starlings will return again to our roof 
in the following spring. 

Most of the small birds which are dwellers in our 

i 

gardens are called perchers, from their being accustomed 
to perch and roost on the branches of trees, and for this 


 . 


habit of life their feet are well adapted, the toes and 
claws readily clinging to a branch. Three of the toes 
are placed in front and one behind, while the tendons of 
the leg which pass into each toe are tightened by the 
weight of the bird’s body as it roosts, so that even when 
asleep it is clinging safely to the boughs. Just a little 
difference is to be seen in the feet of such perchers as 
walk instead of hopping, the foot being spread out 



   



   Foot of Wagtail, which walks. 
Foot of Hedge Sparrow, which hops. 


flatter, while birds which climb like the woodpecker have 
two toes before and two behind, which enables it to cling 
with its body quite upright as it searches the bark on 
the trunks of trees for insects or their eggs, or wood¬ 
boring worms. The feet and claws of each bird are as 
suited to their mode of life as their beaks and bills, and 
vary greatly among the many varieties of birds. Even in 
the bills of such as visit or live in our gardens a differ- 




     


 . 


ence is found between those who feed wholly on seeds 
and berries, those who feed on worms and snails, and 
those who live only on insects. 



x Head of Chaffinch, a seed-eatmg bird. 

  Head of Missel Thrush, who lives on worms, slugs, and 
snails, and also on berries and fleshy fruit, such as cherries. 

  Head of Flycatcher, who lives only on flies and- other 
insects on the wing. 


These little birds with their short necks, sharp-pointed 
bills, and feet fitted for clinging to the boughs of trees, 
form a great contrast to the duck, with its strong broad 

bill, used half as spoon and half as 
spade, as it searches for food in the 
mud of its pond, and paddles itself 
about with its web feet; and still 
more unlike them is the stately 
swan, with its long flexible neck, 
which it can send down deep into the water without 



*mr 

Foot of Swan. 




 . T j 

moving the rest of its body, while its feet are also 
suited for swimming by the webs of skin between the 
toes, which render them like broad cars. 



Besides the pleasure afforded us by the notes and songs 
of birds, they are constantly supplying us with a source 
of interest as we watch their ways and doings. Even 
the sparrows that we see from our windows the whole 
year round are very amusing with their eager restlessness, 
and often rouse our attention with their squabbles among 
themselves for the possession of a bit of material for 
nest-building, or a scrap of food. They seem to have 
so strong a sense of the rights of property, when the 
property happens to be their own ! We may notice a 
sparrow in the act of carrying off a feather towards the 
lining of his nest, pursued angrily by another sparrow, 
to whom it had perhaps originally belonged, and a fight 
in the air ensuing, the feather is dropped. As it floats 
down t it is perhaps captured by a third sparrow, who 
























     


 . 


carries it off in triumph. How odd, too, are the sly 
glances of a sparrow from side to side who has stolen a 
bit of cold potatoe, or sopped bread intended for the 
poultry, and which is too soft perhaps to carry off, and 
may have another claimant before he has time to 
eat it. 

The house-sparrow builds a rather untidy nest, more 
curious for the variety of materials of which it is com¬ 
posed than for skill of workmanship. He benefits by 
his nearness to us in borrowing from us all manner of 
scraps that fall out of window, or escape from the 
sweepings of a house—bits of rag and muslin, and even 
ribbon and lace, are all turned to account, and woven in 
among the straw and twigs. 

‘ ‘ Little thinks my lady fair, 

As she goes by with mincing air, 

How the pert sparrow overhead 

Has robbed her gown to make his bed.” * 

The robin is, perhaps, our next most familiar friend 
and bird-neighbour, and though he sings all the year 
round, we most value his delicate little warble when 
other birds are silent. He seems to know that at last he 
will be listened to, as late in autumn he perches on some 
window ledge or balcony and gives us a succession of 
shrill yet perfectly sweet trills and quavers, showing off 
the utmost compass of his voice, and we like to see 

* Mary Howitt—whose charming poems about the lives and ways 
of birds help us to know, as well as to love them. 


 . 


     


the full black eye and enquiring side-long turn of 
the head as he listens himself to any sound as if trying 
to understand it. He is not afraid of us, and will eat 
any food we like to give him in winter, while in summer 
he lives on earth-worms, fruit and berries, and is quite 
independent of us. Many instances are known of robins 
coming inside a house, or outhouse to build, and they 
and their mates are so faithful to each other that it seems 
as if they paired for life. A pretty story has been told 
us of a fall of snow coming so late in spring that the 
snow lay heavy on the ivy-leaves against a wall, among 
which a robin family had their nest. The snow melted 
and then froze again so as to form a veil of ice before 
the nest in which the mother and her young ones were 
crowded, while the father bird roosted at a little dis¬ 
tance. When morning comes, what is the dismay of 
the latter, when wanting to give his family their break¬ 
fast, he finds that a hard and glossy barrier prevents his 
getting to them! He tries with all his might to hammer 
an opening through it, but in vain; and then flying off, he 
fetches back another strong robin friend, and the beaks 
of both succeed at last in making an aperture, so that the 
hungry little ones can be fed. 

The wren also ventures near our houses and is almost 
as familiar as the robin, and sings too the whole year 
through, and on winter nights is glad to come and get 
the shelter of our roof, as he roosts in company with a 
party of other wrens, to keep each other warm. They 
begin to build very early in the spring, and make their 

K 


   0 


 . 


nests in some hedge or evergreen tree for the sake of the 
shelter of its foliage. The nest is oval and rounded over 
at the top, with a small opening at the side through 
which the hen-bird can creep in and out, and soon as 
many as nine or ten small pinkish white eggs are laid in 
it, on which the hen sits patiently for about ten days, 
while her mate brings her food. When the little ones 
are hatched both parents feed them assiduously, taking 
care that each small fledgling gets its share. The egg of 
the golden-crested wren, our smallest English bird, seems 
indeed a tiny object compared with that of the blackbird, 
which is the largest of the birds who build in our gardens. 



Egg of Blackbird. Egg of Golden-crested 

Wren. 

Of all our garden birds, perhaps the tit-mice are the 
prettiest race, from their delicate forms and graceful agile 
movements, and they are interesting in all their ways. 
The blue tit is not at all particular where he builds his 
nest, and if he cannot find a convenient nook among the 
branches of an apple or other fruit tree, will build it in a 
hole in a garden wall, and has even been known to make 
one in a garden pot, or the spout of a pump. The hen 
lays from ten to twelve eggs, and lor the little ones 


 . I I 

when hatched the parents have to supply as many 
as six or seven hundred caterpillars in a day. Early 
in spring it is curious to watch the tit-mice as they are 
busy among the buds and leaves of trees where insects 
eggs and small caterpillars are to be found, and we may 
notice how, after beginning at the lowest boughs and* 
travelling gradually upwards, a tit-mouse will make a 
thorough survey of a larch tree, examining every “ green 
tassel” just put forth, now pecking at those above the 
bough, and now clinging with its body downwards as it 
clears those beneath it; and then with the agility and 
security of a slack-rope dancer, suddenly dropping to the 
end of a delicate twig, swings backwards and forwards, 
still pecking at each tiny bud as it clings. 

The long-tailed tit-mouse is a lovely little bird, and 



Long-tailed Tit. 


he makes a most exquisitely formed nest. It is so like 
the shape of a flask that in some parts of England it is 


k   


T   


 . 


called the bottle tit. The outside is covered with lichen, 
the silvery side of which is carefully placed outwards so 
as to give it an ornamental finish. Inside it has a soft- 
lining of cobweb and innumerable small feathers for the 
eggs to lie on, and when the young birds are hatched 
they may be found by any one cruel enough to disturb 
the curious nest, all huddled together at the bottom like 
a ball of down. As they glow older they contrive to 
climb up to the opening of the nest at the top, and their 
little heads can be seen all in a bunch with the yellow 
beaks gaping for food. When older still, a family of tits 
will sit in a row on a branch outside the nest like child¬ 
ren on a bench at school, waiting to be fed in turn. 
There seems to be a great attachment between these 
tit brothers and sisters, since they will keep together all 
through an autumn as one family, before each begins 
to shift for itself. We cannot perhaps talk of the singing 
of titmice, for theirs is but a lively note, as is the case 
with many other birds, but it serves as a sort of 
accompaniment to the songs of those who have more 
musical powers. Put into letters, the note of the tit is 
“ chica-chica-chee-chee-chirr-r-rand as the mother bird 
sits at the bottom of the nest on her eggs, all in the 
dark, we cannot but fancy that her mate must now and 
then peep in at the top, and make this note of his express 
somehow an enquiry as to “ how she is going on, and 
whether there are any signs of young ones coming out 
of the eggs.” 

Some of our garden birds seem to have an odd fancy 


 . 


for pecking at blossoms and flowers and destroying them 
as if in mere wantonness. We jnust either imagine that 
they have pleasure in the mere picking of flowers, like 
very young children who gather buttercups and daisies, 
and the next moment let them fall again, or believe that 
birds have learned from bees to get at the sweet juices 
of flowers. We too often find a border of gay crocuses 
in spring cropped off by sparrows, while chaffinches will 
peck off the blossoms of a plum or cherry tree, till the 
ground is white with the torn petals. 

In their search after food birds often seem to think 
about how best to capture their prey. A sparrow may 
be seen beating a bush with its wings to shake down 
the caterpillars from its leaves, and then will hop down 
to pick them up. Thrushes, who require larger game, 
and more solid food from the size of their bodies, will 
often find snails so shut up in their shells, that they 
cannot get at them, and overcome the difficulty by 
knocking the shells against a large stone, until a 
hole is made large enough to get at the soft body 
within. Other birds, as the woodpecker, are able to 
tell by knocking with their bills against the bark of 
trees, whether wood-boring grubs are within; and the 
little bird called the “creeper” runs up and down the 
trunks of larches and fir-trees like a mouse, in search 
of eggs and insects in the bark. 

And all these birds do good rather than harm to us. 
There is no saying how we might not be over-run with 
caterpillars, grubs, slugs, and worms eating up our fruit 


     


 . 


and vegetables, nor how the air might' be swarming be¬ 
fore summer is over with flies, gnats, and other insects 
on the wing, were it not for our small birds, who make 
them their food, or feed their youug with them. Even 
the seeds of wild plants, if they were not the food of 
many of our small birds, would cause the farmer great 
trouble if they were left to fall on the land and germinate. 
He might for instance have his fields quite over-run with 
thistles, were it not for birds who eat their downy seed, 
such as the goldfinch, who, while such an ornament to 
our gardens, likes nothing he can find there sd well as. 
the seed of the road-side thistle. 



In some parts of the world where we have colonies, 
the want of small birds is so much felt, that many 
attempts have been made to send out different kinds 
from England in large quantities, in order that when set 
free they may increase and multiply, and their descendants 
spread over the country to consume the worms and 























 . 


X    


caterpillars. To the settlers in such colonies the sight of 
an English sparrow, robin, or thrush, is a great source 
of delight, reminding them of their native land. 

It cannot however be denied that there are some of 
our garden birds, who when the sun has ripened the 
fruit on our trees, are too fond of helping themselves to 
it. We find our juicy pears pecked away to the core, 
and our purple plums laid bare to the stone, while 
bunches of well picked stones are found hanging where 
cherries should be ; but these latter we ought perhaps to 
consider as the property of our blackbirds, and to have 
been well earned by the part they take in our garden 
choir. They keep a close watch on our cherry trees 
from the time that they first come into blossom, and 
seem to know as well as any botanist how blossoms 
are needed for the production of fruit. How com¬ 
placently they warble when the white petals having 
fallen off, green cherries are to be seen in their place. 
How closely they watch as the sun shines hotter and 
hotter, and the cherries swell and become fleshy, and 
white, and flushed with pink, and then redden and 
ripen. Just as we decide that it is time to gather our 
cherries we find they are gone,—for have not the 
blackbirds found out like ourselves that they were ripe, 
and are they not their own property? We resign 
ourselves to our loss, as we remember the pleasure which 
the rich and mellow notes of these choristers have given 
us, whose song contrasts so well with the more varied 
and florid notes of the thrush. 


     


 . 


A naturalist who has studied for many years the va¬ 
rious sounds produced by birds, tells us that he considers 
the mere chirping and twittering of birds to bear the 
same relation to their songs, as our talking does to our 
singing. He has observed, as indeed we all may do, that 
birds never actually sing when they are busy and have 
work in hand, whether it be nest building, feeding their 
young, or searching for their own food. At times their 
lively chirps and twitters seem as if they were talking to 
themselves or their neighbours about their doings and 
intentions, and it all sounds as if they were thoroughly 
in earnest and most deeply interested in what they are 
about, and eager to get it done. Only when at leisure 
after work is over do they really sing, and then it 
appears to be purely for their own and their mates’ 
satisfaction and pleasure, and as if the production of 
sweet sounds pleased them just as it pleases human 
musicians to produce them. They generally perch on a 
branch near the outside of a tree or bush, so as to let 
the sounds go forth into the air un-hindered by the 
foliage, while they seem to enjoy bringing out all the tones 
they know, and once having begun will go on singing till 
disturbed by some movement or unusual sound. Perhaps 
the charm to us in the songs of birds, is that they 
appear to express only happiness and contentment, 
while the noises made by other animals sound as if 
the expression of wants or dissatisfaction, such as the 
bleating of lambs, the lowing of cows, the mewing of 
cats, and the barking of dogs. 


 .      

» 

Thrushes and blackbirds, wrens, robins, black-throats, 
and linnets are the choristers whose performances in our 
gardens are such a pleasure to us for a large portion of 
the year, and seldom all fail us; but if our gardens are 
far enough from towns, and in situations away from the 
noises of the high roads and the voices and tread of 
passengers, we may reckon on having in early summer 
the delight of hearing the song of the nightingale, whom 
we may consider to be our chief chorister. This little, 



Our Chief Chorister. 


homely-looking, pale brown bird, has almost a world¬ 
wide reputation, since it is not only to be found in many 
warm and temperate climates, but has had its notes 
described and praised by the poets of all countries. It 
scarcely needs a description, however, to let us know 
when we are listening to the far-famed nightingale, so 
distinct and superior are its notes to those of any other 
bird. In some shrubbery in a garden, or some thicket 
near at hand, it may have built very close to the ground 
a nest for its young, where no eye but its own can see it, 




      . 

« 

and to which there is a cunning little passage among the 
tangled twigs and crowded leaves, the secret of which is 
known only to himself and his mate. Not far off, 
perched on some tall shrub or the lowest branches of a 
tree, when his family duties are over for the day, in the 
quiet of evening, but more often after other birds have 
gone to roost for the night, he will pour himself out in song. 
All manner of notes and varied trills will gush forth from 
his little throat. It is as if each passage of his song 
were composed at the moment, just as his fancy pleases 
him; but no ! for the whole makes up what we have 
heard before, and is peculiar to every bird of his kind; 
and as the singer pours out the lovely strains, it tells us 
not only of his gladness and satisfaction in living, but 
seems to our fancy, as it rises up sweet and almost 
solemn into the still night air, as if it were a hymn of 
praise and thanksgiving for all the joys of his little life. 

We conclude our history of some of the birds which 
frequent our gardens and delight us with their notes and 
songs, leaving much which is still to be told of their lives 
and natures; but we shall be satisfied if our   
shall succeed in making its young readers feel how they 
will in future like to observe and discover for themselves 
more about them; and this they can easily do. For, 
far better than any written histories of birds is that 
which we all can observe for ourselves of the lives 
and ways of those who inhabit and frequent even 
small gardens; and still better will it be should such 
observations lead to an interest being felt also in the 


 . 


     


birds of our fields and woods, our rivers, lakes, and 
sea shores. In all these almost countless tribes and 
families of birds, more and more striking proofs are to 
be found of the wonderful tenderness of nature and 
strength of instinct which has been given to them, and 
how every part of their curiously varied forms, and every 
peculiarity in their habits, is suited to the places where 
their lives are led, or we may • say—how powers have 
been bestowed on them by the great Giver of their lives, 
to enable them to adapt those lives to all that surrounds 
them. 



Young Thrushes. 


   0 


 . 


  VII. 



SEEN AFTER SUNSET. 


OW much of the life and movement 
and various sounds of a summer’s 
day in our garden seems to 
have come to an end with the 
setting of the sun! The last 
bee has by that time returned to the hive with 
its load of honey; the last ant has hurried across 
the garden paths, and gone down to the sub¬ 
terranean city; the butterflies are all gone, and 
a lull has come in the songs of birds; but even when 
twilight begins to creep on, and all the golden and rosy 
streaks and flushes have faded out of the western sky, 
there is still some life to be found, and the ways of 
many creatures are still to be noticed. Swarms of midges 
and gnats are flying in the air, seeming to dance up and 
down chasing each other, which were born perhaps only 
an hour before, and whose short lives will be ended 
before the morrow. We may watch the little sharp¬ 
billed fly-catcher darting in among them, and returning 
each time to the exact spot whence he came, and con¬ 
tinuing his sport until his slender beak is bristled with 




 .       

the prey he is careful not to swallow, but is going to take 
home to his young ones. We hear the deep-toned 
droning hum of beetles, who fly so heavily and sleepily, 
while sober moths take the place of gay butterflies, 
flying with a lazy, slower flight, and hovering before the 
few flowers which keep open after sunset, and as they 
hover dip their long honey-tubes into their nectaries, 
without poising on the flower. When they do rest, too,. 



they are different from butterflies. Their antennae or 
feelers are bent down under their heads, while their 
soft wings are folded on their backs, and not lifted up 
and placed against each other like those of butterflies. 
It would seem as if they needed the cover of their wings 
in the cool evening air ; and the texture and colour of 
many of them are not very unlike that of grey and drab 
great-coats. Underneath these wrappers, however, they 
have often beautiful hind-wings, on which are lovely 
spots and patches of black and white or crimson and 
orange. The bodies of moths are generally more thick 
and clumsy-looking than those of butterflies, and are 
mostly covered with a longer and more shaggy down, and 


     


 . 


are not narrowed in at the waist like those of butterflies. 

Their feelers are short, and have no knobs at the end, 

and are sometimes feathered very delicately, and stand 

out from the head like flat plumes. It is the difference 
% 



of the feelers in this respect which makes it easy to 
detect a moth from a butterfly in most instances. Very 
few moths, too, fly by day. They seem to shun the 
bright sunshine, and to be altogether a more sober- 
minded race than their relations, the butterflies. Some 
of them, however, are very magnificent creatures in the 
colours and markings of their wings, and are no way 
behind the butterflies in beauty. The Emperor moth, 
for instance, has its four wings most grandly spotted and 
variegated with shades of brown, red, and grey, and deep 
orange. On each wing is a round black eye, encircled 
with rings. It begins life as a caterpillar of a most 
delicate pale green, with pink spots upon it. The Tiger 
moths are also a very handsome family of moths, and 
are so called from their wings being spotted with black, 
white, and yellow, like the skins ot tigers. What are 
called the Hawk-moths are some of them very large and 
handsome, with wings curiously marked and spotted with 


 . 


M  


black and brown. One of these, named from the spots on 
its wings, the Eyed Hawk-moth, is a very handsome and 
conspicuous creature, and might almost be taken for abird ? 
which perhaps it has a fear of happening, since it has a 
way of arranging its body and wings while it sleeps so as 
to look very much like a bit of twig with some dead 
leaves on it. The caterpillar is a large, hairless, fleshy 
creature, with a horn standing up at the end of its body 



Eyed Hawk-moth. 


and feeds on particular trees, such as the lime, the 
poplar, and the elm, etc. It burrows in the ground when 
it changes into a chrysalis, which is dark brown, and 
might easily be taken for a bit of rounded stick. The 
pupa or chrysalis of a moth is in fact never angular like 
that of a butterfly, but smoother and rounder. The 
most curious moth that we ever see in our gardens is 
what is called the Death’s-head moth, on account of the 


i   ( 


 . 


markings on its head, which have been fancied to look 
like a skull. It is, too, a dark and gloomy-looking crea¬ 
ture, and many strange stories are told of it. Among 
others, it is said that in all its three states, as caterpillar, 
chrysalis, and moth, it utters a squeaking sound. This 
can often be heard from the moth when it is caught and 
held in the hand, when it sends forth a sharp cry like a 
mouse, but how it produces this sound has not been dis- 



Chrysalis of Moth. 


covered. This is the moth which is said to be so fond 
of honey, and will creep into hives, and with its short 
thick trunk suck out honey from the cells of a honey¬ 
comb, and we have told in our   on bees, how 
cleverly the latter sometimes contrive to prevent the 
entrance of the great-bodied thief, by constructing narrow 
winding passages at the entrance of the hive. In other 
hives it has been found that after stinging the intruder to 




 . 


x    


death, the bees have covered up its body with a coating 
of propolis, or bee-glue, as if to embalm it like a 
mummy. All these large moths are a great contrast to 
other races of moths who are very small and most 
delicate in form. Some of these have transparent wings, 
and others are like mere tufts of white down or snow 
flakes. The Twenty-plumed moth which we sometimes 
see on our windows has its wings formed of separate 
feathers, somewhat like those of a bird, but only fit to 
make pens for the use of fairies. We may judge of the 
infinite variety of moths to be seen after sunset—a few 
only flying by day—when we are told that in England 
there have been found and named as many as nineteen 
hundred different species. 

Most of the large moths have also very large cater¬ 
pillars, some of which are smooth and fleshy, and others 
are covered with thick hairs, as the caterpillar of the 
Tiger-moth, called “ Woolly Bear,” from its curious 
appearance. 



We all know too well the strange attraction which the 
flame of a candle has for these night-flying moths, and to 

L 





     


 . 


which we can seldom prevent their falling victims. It is 
said that if on a warm summer night we were to leave a 
lighted candle on a table near an open window, as 
many as twenty species of moth would be sure to be 
attracted to it before dawn. Among such are the 
   Swallow-moths,” so called from the form of the wings, 



SWALLOW-MOTH/ 


which are prettily streaked with brown, white, and grey. 
The caterpillar of one of the species having two humps on its 
back, has caused it to be called “ Dromedarius.” A pretty 
moth called the Lackey-moth has been so called from 



Lackey-moth. 


the gaudy sort of livery worn by the caterpillar, which 
is often found in our gardens; while another little moth. 





 . ’     

the Poplar-moth, is remarkable for visiting us as'late 
in the year as December. The caterpillar is found in 
June, feeding on poplar leaves, and then, becoming a 
chrysalis in July, remains in that state till December, 
when the moth comes forth—the very last of its race to 
make its appearance in the whole year. 

The way in which moths are attracted by the light of 
a flame was thought a great deal of by the ancient 
Greeks, who made no distinction between them and 
butterflies, calling them both Psyche, which also meant 



the soul.'* They had all manner of curious fancies and 
notions,about the strange and irresistible impulse which 
the moth has to so destroy itself, likening it to the way 

* See Third  , on the Butterfly. 


L   
















J   'S  . 

in which the soul is consumed by fiery passions, and 
inventing many stories about Psyche, which we may 
think perhaps more absurd than poetical, though they 
represented many of them very beautifully in sculpture 
and painting. 

Moths may seem to us to be but an idle and un¬ 
interesting sort of insects, not so lively as butterflies’’ 
and with none of the talents and powers of ants and 
bees, and useful only in providing for the continuance 
of their race by the laying of eggs; but among the 
caterpillars of moths we find a number of most curious 
powers, which they exert in the construction of places 
of shelter and concealment, in which they are safe from 
being captured by birds, or where they can be unseen 
and undisturbed whilst undergoing their change into the 
pupa or chrysalis state. Among these clever works are 
those of the leaf-rolling caterpillars, many examples of 



which we may find among the trees and plants of our 
gardens. Different caterpillars have different methods 





 . 


     


of setting about the task of making their place of shelter, 

but all make use of the power they have of spinning 

silken threads, with which they fasten together the 

portion of leaf which they fold or roll up. In some 

the leaf is merely closed together and fastened, while 

the caterpillar lies along the mid rib; in some die side 

of the leaf is rolled round into a long tube; and in others 

the point of the leaf is rolled round several times, and 

* 

fastened with silk cables both within and without. Other 
caterpillars pack together a bunch of leaves, winding the 
silk thread around them much as we tie up a nosegay 
with a string. Others make little bowers of leaves, in 
the midst of which they live and eat, concealed from the 
prying eyes of birds. The caterpillar of a very pretty 
little chocolate-coloured moth, who lays its eggs on the 
lilac tree, one egg only on one leaf, begins directly it is 
hatched to roll up its leaf into the form of a tunnel or 
gallery, where it may feed in safety, and then moves to 
another leaf when it has eaten up its dwelling-place. It 
begins to roll up the leaf from the point, and as the leaf 
is elastic, and has a tendency to spring back again, the 
little creature is obliged to fasten the roll with its silken 
cable as it proceeds, and then, when the roll is finished, 
ends by attaching little cables outside along the whole 
length of the tunnel. This seems as wonderful on the 
part of the little new-born caterpillar, if we come to 
think about it, as if a very young infant, soon after its 
birth, were to set about rolling itself up in a large piece 
of carpet or matting three or four times its own length, 


   0  . 

fastening it with cords inside and outside, so that it could 
not come unrolled again, and all the while somehow 
manufacturing the cords used in the process ! 

The caterpillars of some other moths display the 
talents of carpenters and masons, some of them living 
upon the fibre of wood, and while they eat into the bark 
of a tree making themselves galleries or cells, in which 
they change into the chrysalis state. This is done by 
the caterpillar of the Goat moth, which is a large moth 
often to be met with in many parts of England. Other 
caterpillars of moths will file off fine raspings of stone 
with their sharp cutting jaws or mandibles, and sticking 
these together with silky matter, form little stony cases 
around themselves whilst going through the change into 
the pupa state. 

The most curious of the moth tribe, however, is 
one which although it will live in England, cannot be 
called a native, viz., the moth which is the perfect insect 
of the caterpillar which we call the silk-worm. When we 
think of the vast amount of manufactured silks and 
ribbons, with which human beings in all parts of the 
world clothe and adorn themselves, and which is used 
in the hangings of the mansions of the rich and the 
palaces of the great, it is almost difficult to believe that 
it can be all produced from a caterpillar little more than 
two inches long—that all the cargoes of silk brought to 
be woven into such fabrics from India and China, and all 
that which is produced in Italy, and manufactured there 
and in France into silk and satin, gauze and velvet, is 


 .       

at first but the exceedingly fine thread spun by the 
caterpillar of a moth, in order to make for itself a kind 
of shroud or garment, in which it may hide itself while 
it undergoes the change into a little shapeless pupa or 
chrysalis. In most warm countries this same caterpillar 
is found, and we know not, for how many thousands of 
years the little creatures spun their cocoons, and changed 
into pupae and then again into moths, eating their way 
out from their silken garments, and leaving them upon 
bushes and boughs of trees, without anyone thinking of 
turning the empty little yellow pods to account. Pliny, 
the Roman writer and historian, tells the story of a young 
Greek girl called Pamphila, of the island of Coos, being 
the first to discover that she could wind the fine thread 
off from a cocoon, and that this led to its being spun 
together and then woven into a shining and flexible 
tissue. The story may be true of silk so turned to 
account in Greece, but there is no doubt that the in¬ 
dustrious and ingenious Chinese people were the first to 
make use of the cocoons of this kind of caterpillar. 
They spun and wove the fine thread of the caterpillar 
thousands of years before it was brought into Europe, 
and even then the delicate fabric was so choice and 
dear that it is told of a Roman emperor that he would 
not allow his empress to have a robe of silk, on account 
of the expense. It helps to give us an idea of the fine¬ 
ness of the silk thread in its natural state when we are told 
that in a single cocoon there are as many as nine hundred 
yards of it, while it takes the cocoons of two thousand 
silk-worms to spin a pound of silk ready for weaving. 


      . 

The silk which we use and prize so highly depends, 
however, after all, on the leaf of the mulberry tree. 
Unless the caterpillars are fed on these, no valuable silk, 
capable of being manufactured, is obtained. We may 
notice what a sticky, glutinous juice, is the sap of the 
mulberry leaf, and must think of this being, as it were, 
the foundation of silk, after undergoing a change while 
digested by the silk-worm. The Arabians have a proverb 
which says :— 

“ Patience ! and the mulberry leaf becomes satin ”■— 

and, we will add—“ helped by the caterpillar, who eats 
it, and the ingenuity of human beings.” 

When the shades of evening have deepened, and 
made the outlines of trees and plants quite indistinct, 
and when the last note or twitter of birds is silenced, 
and we fancy them all comfortably settled on their 
boughs for their night’s roosting—leaving, of course, the 
nests to the little ones, or to the mother birds who 
happen to be sitting on eggs; when all is very still, and 
we are perhaps watching some little star that has twinkled 
out of the dark grey sky, we are startled for a moment 
by what seems like the rapid flight across the window 
of a bird with a broken wing, so irregular is it and 
zig-zag. “ A bat! ” some one exclaims ; and before the 
words are uttered another flies by, or the first returns 
again. We know not whence they come, nor where 
they are going; but we presume that they are after the 
beetles and moths, or other insects to be met with at 


 . 


   S  


that time of evening. It may be that there is a bat’s 
nest in a wall in some old farm buildings or stables not 
far off, or in the village church tower ; but wherever it is 
that they live, the secret of their hiding-place is well 
kept, so that we are obliged to go to books, or listen to 
the story of some chance person who may happen to 
have seen a bat’s home, and found his family in it. We 
may, too, have a stuffed bat, or be able to look at the 
various species of them to be found in a museum ; and 
as our own observation of them may have been confined 
to watching their curious, flashing, uncertain flight, we 
shall find it very well worth our while to examine the 
curious body of a bat, and learn all we can about their 
life and ways. It flies, and yet is very far from being a 
bird ! It has wings, and yet it has no feathers. It does 
not lay eggs, but brings forth its young alive, and suckles 
them as does a mouse or squirrel. Its old English name 
was Flittermouse. The Germans call it Fkdcrmaus ; the 
French Chauve-souris , or bald mouse. In Latin it is 
called Vespertilio , because it comes forth and is seen in 
the vesper , or evening. In Greek it is called Cheiroptera , 
or hand-winged; and all these names, especially the last, 
help to explain the nature and form of a bat. It is, 
however, when we see its skeleton, that we can best 
understand its real structure, for we perceive by this that 
though it might be said to have two hind legs and two 
wings, yet that the wings are really like arms and hands 
—long arms, very long fingers, and short thumbs—while 
its two hind legs are short, and are provided with feet, 


     


 . 


which have also fingers and thumbs, the thumbs'of both 
hands and feet being like hooks. When the skeleton is 
clothed, as in the living bat, a soft down-covered mem¬ 
brane is stretched all down each side of the body, 
covering the bones of the arms and hands, just as the 
silk of an umbrella covers the whalebone or steel ribs of 



it, and just like an umbrella or large fan, this membrane 
can be folded up when the wings are not wanted for 
flight, and packed up on each side of the body like 
folded fans or shut-up umbrellas. Besides thus using its 
fingers in flight, a bat makes great use of its four thumbs, 
since they are provided with a kind of hooked nail or 
claw. When he sleeps, he gathers up his wide-spread 
wings around him, and hooking himself by his hind feet 







 . 


:    


to some object head downwards, so spends, not his 
night, but his day; for since bats fly by night in search 
of food, they must sleep during the day. 

Still more curious is the use the bat makes of his 
thumbs in walking, for he uses his fore thumbs instead 
of feet. Packed up into a brown ball, he creeps 
along with the help of these short thumbs at the 
joint of the wings, his large ears standing up ready to 
catch every sound. The tip of the tail of a bat is also 
very hard and stiff, so hard it can be used to help them 
in climbing, while in flight it assists them as a rudder in 
steering their course. The muscles of a bafls wing are 
very thick and strong, since they keep on the wing 
through a great part of the night, only ceasing to fly 
backwards and forwards in search of prey when owls 
come forth, who in their turn prey upon mice and bats. 
They seem constantly to dart from one spot to another, 
and yet can be noticed at times turning round in the 
air in pursuit of an insect. A mother bat brings forth 
only two young ones at a time, and is very attentive and 
careful of her offspring. She will fly about with the 
greatest ease with her little ones hanging to her breasts, 
and while at home wraps her large wings round them as 
she nurses them, much as a human nurse will gather her 
shawl round a baby. Some people have been found to 
take pleasure in taming bats, and have even trained 
them to take flies and other food out of their hands, but 
even then they seemed to like to eat in private, and would 
draw their wings over their mouths, and eat what was 


      . 

given them as if behind a veil. They would, too, retire 
to the darkest corner of the room by day and only come 
out when it was dusk, as if light were painful to them. 
One of these trained bats was observed to be very neat 
and tidy, and seen to comb the hair on his back very 
carefully with the fingers of his feet, making a parting 
down the middle as a lady will do. 

All the senses of a bat are very acute, sight, hearing, 
taste, smell, and touch ; but to account for the manner 
in which a bat contrives to avoid knocking against any¬ 
thing as he flies, it has been maintained that he had a 
sixth sense, which gave him this power, rendering him 
conscious of an object being near although he could 
neither see, smell, touch, or hear it.. To make sure of 
this, most cruel experiments were tried by one naturalist, 
who put out the eyes of a bat, and covered over his 
whole head, and yet found that it could fly about a room 
without touching anything, and go in and out of a door 
without touching the sides of the doorway, and make its 
way down a narrow passage with a turn in it, all without 
striking against the walls. He even hung threads from 
the ceiling of a room, only wide enough apart for the bat’s 
wings when extended to pass through, and found that it 
could do so without coming in contact with them. He 
said, therefore, that bats must have a sixth sense ; but 
other naturalists think that they may only have great 
sensitiveness in the membrane which covers their wings, 
and that this may account for their being able at all 
times to steer their way in the dark. 


 , 


     


Our English bats are very harmless creatures and 
cannot be said to do us‘ any harm • but terrible stories 
have been told of a kind of bat, called the Vampire, 
found in hot countries, which is said to suck the blood 
of human beings after fanning them to sleep with its 
great wings. A traveller, to prove if this were the case, 
had the courage when a Vampire bat came to his tent at 
night, to lie still on his back and bare his chest, in order 
to see what would happen. After flying over him back¬ 
wards and forwards for some time, while its wings fanned 
him most pleasantly, the creature settled at last on his 
chest, and suddenly piercing the skin with one of its 
sharp thumb nails, it began to lick up the blood which 
flowed from the wound. The traveller then thought it 
time to capture and kill the Vampire, who after all had 
not done him much harm, since no poison had been 
injected in the wound. Such facts as these greatly ex¬ 
aggerated, together with their way of living in gloomy 
places, such as caves and hollow trees, and old ruins, 
and their habit of coming forth only in the twilight, have 
caused bats to be looked upon as rather mysterious 
and dismal sort of creatures, only fit to attend on 
witches and hobgoblins, and such imaginary personages, 
so that we do well to learn that their lives are, after all, 
spent much as those of other small creatures, in the 
search after food, and in tenderly rearing and protecting 
their young. We may remind ourselves, too, that the 
“ delicate Ariel,” who was a good and beneficent spirit, 
performing so cleverly and zealously the commands 


      . 

of his master, Prospero, describes himself as making 
use of them in his journeys through the air when he 
sings— 


“ On a bat’s back do I fly, 
After sunset, merrily.” 
























THE DWELLERS IN OUR ’GARDENS. 


     


  VIII. 

INVADERS, VISITORS, AND SETTLERS. 

T may seem strange that we should 
have to relate, that our gardens are 
sometimes invaded by a wild species 
of quadruped who comes into them 
at times, seeking, as do most wild 
beasts, that which it may devour— 
scrambling in the first instance over our walls, or making 
its way through holes in our palings, or gaps in our 
hedges, in its search after food. It is of course not a 
lion, or tiger, nor even a lynx or fox; but however it 
may differ from all these creatures in its outward 
appearance, it has really much that is like them in 
the structure of its body, for all quadrupeds are like 
each other in the form and arrangement of the bones 
which compose their skeletons; just as in the construction 
of houses there is much that is alike in the beams and 
rafters, however in their external appearance, they may 
differ from each other. In the skeletons of all quad¬ 
rupeds is found the back-bone, or spine, composed of 
many separate vertebra , or'small bones fitted into each 
other, so as to make the whole flexible, with the skull at 





l o  . 

the end, which contains the brain. Branching out from the 
back-bone, or spine, are the ribs, which bend round and 
protect some of the most tender internal parts of the 
body; while in the bones of the four legs, there is much 
alike in every quadruped both in their form and arrange¬ 
ment as well as in the muscles which move them in life. 
It is therefore in size that the invader whom we are 
going to describe, differs most from any other quadrupeds, 
that roam wild about the forests and deserts; and in this 
respect the difference is very great. In the skeleton of 
the elephant, for instance, which is the largest of all 
quadrupeds, we know that it is composed of thick, heavy 
solid bones, almost as hard and strong as if made of 
iron or stone, while the whole skeleton is perhaps two 
and a half yards in length; and in the case of the 
animal which sometimes invades our gardens, the bones 
of which it is composed are as fine and delicate as if 
carved in ivory, and the whole being but about two 
and a half inches long, it could easily lie in the palm of 
our hand—for the creature of which we are speaking is 
but a mouse, the very smallest of all quadrupeds. 

Two or three different kinds of mice come to us at 
times from the fields, and if they find that they can 
supply themselves with food enough among our vegetables, 
and such seeds and fruits as are to be found lying under 
our trees, and especially if we happen to grow Indian 
corn, or have some bushes of hazel-nuts and filberts— 
if only such delicious provender as this is to be reckoned 
on which can be stored up, they will become settlers 


 . l l 

with us, and make their nests in some sheltered nook 
beneath the root of a tree, or under a tuft of grass, or in 
some cranny in a wall, and lining it carefully with moss 
and dead leaves and hay, will there live and bring forth, 
and rear their young. As they have usually as many as 
six or seven young ones at a time, and two or three 
families in a year, it will make all the difference to 
us and our gardener, when such invaders become 
settlers. 

The mouse which most often lives in our gardens is 
the wood mouse, or as it is sometimes called, the “ Long¬ 
tailed Field Mouse ”*—a pretty gentle timid creature 
after all, with large bright eyes, and broader and rounder 
ears than those of the house mouse, and with a tail 
nearly as long as its head and body. Like the squirrel, 
it lays up stores of food for the winter—seeds, nuts, and 
grain, etc. It probably sleeps a good deal during the 
very cold weather, and yet may be seen venturing forth 
even when the snow is upon the ground to forage for 
food if its store is becoming exhausted, and rather than 
starve will burrow down to our crocus and snowdrop 
bulbs and nibble them away. Since it feeds principally 
on vegetable food, it lives on good terms with the other 
inhabitants of our gardens, and has only to fear being 
caught by some stray cat or owl who is on the look out 
for mice and moles. It is curious to think of the 
quiet snug life which our little mice settlers may lead, 


* See last page. 


M 


     


 . 


all the winter feeding and sleeping alternately in their 
warm nests, and yet cases may arrive when, perhaps, the 
winter being longer than usual and their storehouse 
becoming exhausted, and nothing to be had in the 
garden that will suit them, they will make their way 
out beyond its boundaries again, and get into some 
neighbouring wood or plantation, where beech-nuts and 
acorns are still to be found in the dead leaves at the 
foot of trees. A near relation of the wood mouse, is a 
somewhat still smaller animal, and is likely only to pay us 
very short visits. It is called the harvest mouse, and 
living principally on grain, constructs for itself a nest 
amid the stalks of corn, like a round bag hung among 
them, formed of leaves and grass woven together. The 
entrance into this curious nest is contrived so as to close 
as with a spring after the owner has entered it, or when 
he leaves it, filled with his young ones or with his store of 
food. This mouse is able to catch hold of objects, such 
as a twig or stalk of corn, with the end of his tail, like 
an opossum, so as to swing himself from one twig 
or stalk to another. Mice have such large families, and 
increase their numbers so fast that a naturalist who 
wanted to ascertain how fast they would multiply, put 
a pair of harvest mice into a large box, together with 
a quantity of grain, and on opening the box three or 
four months afterwards found that there were one 
hundred and twenty mice in it. 

The mole is another quadruped which is sure to invade 
our gardens, or pay them occasional visits, though we 


 .      

do not often meet with him above ground. In a 
neighbouring field we may perhaps see the little hillocks 
of earth which moles bring to the surface after burrowing 
out the subterranean passages which they form, and even 
in our own gardens such traces of them are to be found 
when they make their way under our walls and fences, 
in search of earth-worms, which form their principal 
article of food. From time to time we do, however, get 
a sight of moles, and though we may fancy them at first 
to be ugly and shapeless creatures, it is worth our while 



to examine them well, that we may learn how curiously 
their form is suited to their manner of life. First of all, 
the long shapeless body is covered with a most smooth 
and velvet-like fur, which will turn any way, so that 
while groping about underground it enables the creature 
to slip easily through the passages it burrows out, either 
backwards or forwards. The head is joined on to the 
body without any neck, and has a long flexible snout, 
which penetrates the earth like a ploughshare, while its 
short fore-legs have broad paws like fat hands turned 


m   


     


 .. 


outwards, with five fingers and sharp pointed nails, just 
fitted for first helping to rake away the earth, and then 
to throw it back on each side as the creature ploughs its 
way along. Since the mole spends its life in the dark, its 
eyes are very minute, and perhaps enable it to see with a 
very little amount of light, while its ears are scarcely 
visible at all. 

Though the mole travels so much underground, and does 
not require shelter like most other animals, it has still a 
home of its own. In the centre of one of the largest 
hillocks, or mole-hills, will be found its nest, and nothing 
can be more curiously or artfully constructed than these 
abodes. They are formed like little fortresses, composed 
of two round galleries, one above another, communi¬ 
cating with each other by five upright passages, while 
other “runs/’ or tunnels, branch out from the lower 
gallery in every direction, and extend over a considerable 
space. In the centre of the fortress is the principal 
apartment, in which the creature dwells, and from which, 
if attacked, he can make his escape by any of his secret 
passages. He is not obliged to be always burrowing his 
way through the earth in search of food when such a 
system of tunnels has been executed by him, but can use 
it as a sort of hunting-ground around his fortress; and 
we may fancy the proprietor of such a territory running 
about his underground passages in search of worms, and 
living rather at ease when once he has formed his abode, 
and dug his tunnels that communicate with it. He has 
only to be careful not to show himself above ground too 


 .      

often, if an owl happens to dwell in his neighbourhood, 
and to beware of the traps of the mole-catcher, who 
knows so well all his ways and habits. When the creature 
has to bring forth and rear its young, it forms a different 
sort of nest in one of its raised hillocks, carefully con¬ 
structed with drains, so as to carry off moisture, and which 
nest is supplied with plenty of leaves and warm materials 
for bedding. Moles do us very little harm in our gardens, 
since they do not eat vegetables, and do eat many 
animals of which we might otherwise have too many. 
The underground passages they make seem also to break 
up the soil and help to drain it. Earth-worms are said 
to be so afraid of moles, who prey on them so constantly, 
that no sooner do they feel any shaking of the ground 
about them, like the approach of their enemy, than they 
wriggle up to the surface of the earth ; and it is a still 
more curious fact that those birds who also make worms 
their food seem aware of this, so that thrushes and lap¬ 
wings will be seen knocking the earth with their bills, 
and stamping with their feet round the holes of worms, 
in order to bring them up, when, of course, the poor 
worm becomes the prey of the bird, instead of the 
imaginary mole. Sometimes the soft velvety skins of 
moles are used to make gloves, and pouches, and purses, 
and we have even heard of a gentleman wearing a 
waistcoat made of mole-skins. 

And now we must describe, what may be thought 
perhaps to be the very ugliest of all the dwellers in our 
gardens, and yet it is one who has much in its life that is 


     


 . 


very curious. It has, in fact, a sort of double life, being 
at first an inhabitant of some pond in the neighbourhood 
of the garden where it is found, in form very like a fish, 
and feeding on water plants, and afterwards becoming a 
land animal, and requiring for its support flies, slugs, 
small beetles, and worms. We know him best when, as 
a frog, he sits under the shelter of some large cabbage 
or rhubarb leaf, or among the strawberry plants in our 
gardens, careful not to expose himself to the heat or 
light of the sun, for he likes shade and dampness as 
much as the “Slow One” of our first  ; in fact, his 
life depends on keeping his skin moist, and he would die 
were he to be exposed to the heat of the sun, so as to 
have his skin dried up. There he sits grave and ugly ; 
his prominent eyes on the look out for any living crea¬ 
ture on the wing that may come near, and with his great 
mouth ready to open like a trap, and his long tongue 
prepared to dart out to capture the prey! 

The frog, though it has four legs, is not classed with 
quadrupeds, but with reptiles. It is said to be am¬ 
phibious, which means having “both lives”—one on 
land and the other in water. In early spring the eggs of 
the frog may be seen in large clusters in ponds, like 
transparent beads, with a black dot in the middle, and 
in April the creature we call a tadpole is hatched from 
them. At first it is like a tiny fish with gills outside its 
head, but these soon disappear and nothing is to be 
seen but a round body, like a head and stomach in one, 
and a long tail (Fig. i). It feeds on the plants which 


 . 


     


grow in the water, and especially on the green duck¬ 
weed which covers the surface of ponds. It has little 
hooks on its jaws, to enable it to bite the leaves, with a 
sort of tube or sucker on its lower lip, by which it hangs 
to floating plants. When the tadpole is about six weeks 
old, a pair of legs begin to make their appearance near 
the tail, and by-and-by another pair come out near the 
head (Fig.  ), the tail disappears and the animal is then 
a young frog. It makes its way out of the pond and 
begins to live on flies and other living creatures; many 
other changes having come about in its body, which 
enables it to breathe air and digest a different kind of 
food. As a great many young frogs leave their native 



ponds at the same time, and make their way to fields 
and gardens, the ground will seem alive with them 
sometimes, and people have been known to fancy that 
a shower of frogs had fallen, but it has only been the 
migration of thousands of them, obeying a natural im¬ 
pulse, and turning their backs on the place of their 
birth, begin to exercise for the first time their power 
of leaping and crawling. Frogs have wonderfully 








i   


 . 


strong muscles provided for the movements of their 
legs, since they have so many different motions to per¬ 
form with them—swimming, walking, and leaping. Even 
after a frog has its four legs, it is a great swimmer, and 
its feet are webbed with skin between the toes, like 
those of a duck, for after spending the greater part of 
the year on land it returns to its pond again late in 
autumn, and when winter sets in, buries itself in the 
mud at the bottom and remains there in a torpid state 
until spring returns. The power of a frog’s muscle is 
shown most in its leaping and hopping, since it can 
jump into the air as high as twenty times its own height, 
and at a single leap go the distance of fifty times its own 
length. The bones and muscles of a frog’s hind legs 
are said to be very like those of a man, but we cannot 
very well fancy a man being able to perform such a feat 
in the way of jumping or leaping. The tongue of a 
frog, which it uses for catching its prey, is very long and 
narrow, and is placed in its mouth quite differently to 
that of most animals, since it is fastened within the 
front of the lower jaw, with the end lying towards the 
throat—-just the reverse way to that in which our own 
tongues lie in our mouths. It is also covered with a 
sticky kind of liquid, to which the flies, as they are 
caught, adhere, and not being able to escape, are drawn 
into the frog’s large mouth and sent down the throat. 
Watch as we may, however, it is almost impossible to 
see the tongue of a frog as he is fly-catching, so rapid 
is its motion. 


 . 


     


Frogs grow very slowly and live very long. They are 
nearly related to toads, who pass through the same 
changes in their lives, and are amphibious , or “both- 
lived.” A toad can be known by the small bumps on 
its skin, and by its crawling instead of leaping. There 
have been plenty of people, who though they might not 
perhaps have found beauty in them, yet liked to make 
pets of frogs and toads. We have known a family, who 
had a large pet frog, called “Jacob,” who was supposed 
to be fond of music. When on summer evenings the 
drawing-room windows were left open and playing and 
singing likely to be going on, a “flop” would be heard 



on the floor, and it would be found that “Jacob” had 
come in to listen to the music; and the greatest care 
v r as taken that no one trod on him, or set the legs of a 
chair on him, while some kind of supper would be found 
to suit him before he took his leave. Late in the au¬ 
tumn he and his fellow frogs will have returned to their 
native ponds, where they spend the winter in the mud 


   0 


 . 


at the bottom, and in the following spring have a con¬ 
cert of their own, since frogs at that time of the year 
send forth their curious croaking, the chorus often be¬ 
ginning in the twilight and continuing far into the night. 
In America there is a species of frog, whose croaking is 
not only louder, but also more musical than that of our 
frogs, so that, as in England, we go out sometimes after 
dark to listen to the nightingales, people there;will go 
out to hear a frog concert. 

We should be neglecting to notice a large portion of 
the living creatures which are to be found in our gardens, 
were we not to tell something about the curious and 
beautiful Beetles, some of which are settlers, and some 
only visitors to us, but of which many species may be 
met with even in the course of a single summer’s day. 
It would, however, take the whole of a little book like 
this were we to describe even the appearance of many 
of them, so greatly do they vary in shape, form, colour, 
and size, though in their habits and mode of life there is 
not so great a difference. 

Beetles belong to the class of insects to which is given 
the name of Coleoptera , a word which means wing- 
sheathed, owing to their having besides the wings used 
for flight, another pair of hard, opaque outer wings or 
wing-cases, which cover the former from sight, except 
when the insect is flying. The pair of light gauzy wings 
are folded up when the beetle is at rest, and the thick 
sheaths close together over the body, like valves fitting 
so exactly that they often seem like one piece, and we 


 .       

are apt to forget the very beautiful and delicate trans¬ 
parent wings which are folded up under their hard shiny 
coats, ready to be expanded and bear them up into the 
air. 

As we look at a beetle at rest, we can easily perceive 
that there is not the narrow part between the chest and the 
stomach which we see in many insects, but that the head 
and chest are joined immediately on to the rest of the 
body. 

All beetles have but two eyes, but these are what are 
called compound eyes, and are made up of many small 
eye-lets , which no doubt supply them with very acute sight. 
As their food is very varied, their mouths are fitted for 
several ways of getting at it, and in different kinds of 
beetles are suited for cutting, gnawing, tearing, or chew¬ 
ing—but never for sucking or for lapping up, like those 
of the fly and bee. And they need all these different 
little instruments for feeding themselves, since some 
prey on the flesh of dead animals, some on rotten wood, 
some on wood that is fresh and growing, some on the 
roots of grasses and plants, some on grain, and some 
on leaves—while the most dainty of all would seem to 
be those who feed in the petals of flowers. Beetles 
pass through the same changes and transformations as 
other insects. At first the form is like that of a grub or 
larva, like a short thick worm, its body very soft, but 
with a horny head, something like what it afterwards has 
as a perfect beetle. In this state it prepares for the 
change into a pupa or chrysalis by contriving some kind 


     


 . 


of defence around it. Some have been hatched from 
eggs previously laid in the earth, and when about to 
undergo the change, they hollow out the earth around 
them so as to form a little cave. Others make a sort of 
cocoon, by joining together particles of earth with web or 
sticky matter. Those which live in wood have no need 
of cocoon, but change into pupae in the hollow they have 
made while feeding on the fibre of the wood, while 
some, which feed on plants, hang themselves in round 
silken cocoons from the leaves or stalks of it. 

We have no English beetles which are to be compared 
in splendour with the Diamond-beetle, which is found in 
tropical countries, whose wing-cases, when seen in the 
microscope, seems studded with brilliant gems, yet many 
of our garden beetles are very beautiful in form and 
colour in their delicate antennae and legs, and in the 
hues of their wing-cases. We find in the centre of our 
roses the beautiful Rose-beetle, with its body of a bright 
emerald green burnished with gold, and who seems as if 
conscious of the becoming contrast of the glowing pink 
or crimson of its cradle to the hue of its own body. The 
first state of life of the insect is very different to the 
nature of its favourite food, since the grub is found in 
decayed wood and ant-hills. Perhaps no beetle is more 
unlike the Rose-beetle than the great brown Cockchafer, 
which we sometimes encounter in our gardens in the 
evening, when it will strike against us as it flies, as if its 
sight were imperfect; from which circumstances is sup¬ 
posed to come the saying, “As blind as a beetle.” 


 . 


     


When the female Cockchafer wants to lay her eggs, she 
digs a hole in the ground about six inches deep and 
there leaves them, and by-and-by comes from them a 
white or greyish-coloured grub, which feeds on the roots 
of plants for years. It then goes still deeper into the 
earth and changes into a pupa or chrysalis, and at last 
makes its way out of its subterranean abode a perfect 
Cockchafer. 

Another species of beetle with which we are all so 
well acquainted is the little Lady-bird, or Cow-bird, as it 
is called in some counties of England. There are 
several kinds which frequent our gardens. One with 
two black spots on its round and scarlet wing-cases— 
another with five spots, while some are black spotted 
or blotched with red. It is a useful insect in gardens, 
because it feeds on the aphides or plant-lice, which 
destroy so many vegetables. The largest of all our 
English beetles is the Stag-beetle, which very rarely pays 
us a visit, but who has such stag-like horns standing out 
from the front of its head, that we are sure to know its 
name. The Burying-beetle is, perhaps, the most curious 
of its race in its habits. It not only lives on the flesh 
of dead animals, but after it has feasted on them, the 
female lays her eggs in the same body, in order that 
the grubs, which come from them, may have the flesh of 
the creature also for their food. To secure this the 
beetles bury the dead body of the bird or mole which 
they have found, before they begin their feast. First 
they dig around it a sort of trench, and then gradually 


     


 . 


hollowing out the earth beneath it, pull the body down. 
While the little sextons are invisible, the body may be 
seen gradually sinking down into its grave. 



Female Burying-beetle. 



Male Burying-beetle. 


Very nearly related to beetles is the earwig, which has 
also its two sets of wing's, with the gauzy pair folded up 
like fans under the sheath-wings. The grub and chrysalis 
of the earwig is very like the perfect insect., only without 






 . 


*   


wings and wing-cases. It has very strong horny mandibles 
or jaws, and we know well the curious pair of pincers 
it carries about at the end of his body as if for defence. 
If we want to find a number of earwigs, we must look 
for them in some moist place, such as under a large stone 
or some decayed straw, and yet while it will live on 
animal food it will eat the leaves and petals of flowers. 

Any injury, however, which earwigs do in a garden is 
made amends for by their eating in their turn many 
mischievous insects. It has been a very mistaken notion 
that earwigs were apt to get into people’s ears, and the 
notion has perhaps originated from the name of the 
creature, and not the name from the practice of 
so doing. The word earwig comes in fact from ear, and 
the Saxon word weiga a worm. In German it is called 
Ohrwurm , and both names have probably come from the 
shape of its beautiful gauzy wings, which are just the 
form of the human ear. Perhaps too the notion has also 
been preserved from the habit which these little creatures 
have of creeping into holes during the day-time to hide 
from the light; at all events they seem to be always 
suspected of doing harm which never happens, and 
do not deserve to have gained such a bad reputation, 
since they show great affection for their offspring, and 
take the most tender care of them, the female earwig 
sitting on her eggs to hatch them, and then gathering the 
grubs under her body to protect them just as a hen does 
her chickens. 

Among the different invaders of our gardens, there 


     


 . 


are none, perhaps, whom we are so unwilling to have 
there as settlers, as those near relations of bees—the 
wasps. During the spring and early summer, we perhaps 
forget all about them, just at the very time when they 
are so busy themselves in constructing their dwelling 
places, and when too they are really serviceable to us, 
as we shall presently see; and it is only when they 
seem to appear on the scene as the natural enemies of 
the human race, that we begin to notice and dread the 
robbing and plundering propensities, and the fierce vin¬ 
dictiveness of our garden ryfc-corps in its gaudy uniform 
of black and yellow. 

*Like the earwig, we after all give the wasp more 
credit for mischief than he deserves. He carries, 
it is true, a most formidable weapon—a sharp-pointed 
stiletto, which can be sent deep into our flesh, and a 
bag of poison, of which a single drop poured into the 
wound, can cause us hours, and even days, of pain and 
inconvenience. But has the wasp really any blood¬ 
thirsty designs towards us, or any natural desire to use 
his deadly weapons against us ? Far from it. A wasp, 
in fact, only attacks and wounds us in self-defence. He 
has a natural desire, it is quite true, for the sweet juices 
of plums and nectarines, and other luscious fruits, and 
once having taken possession of the ripest he can find— 
if we should happen to want that particular plum or 
nectarine and disturb him in his feast, knocking him 
roughly, perhaps, as we detach it from the branch—he 
treats us as marauders and invaders of his rights, and 


.  . l]J 

stings us. He comes in at our open windows, attracted 
perhaps by the scent of sugar on our tables, and if we 
attempt to do battle with him as he flies about in search 
of the sugar-basin, he will again sting us in self-defence. 
Let us on such occasions remind ourselves that during 
the former part of his life, before fruit was ripe or 
windows left open, the wasp was feeding on just the 
kind of matter that we are glad to get rid of, and that 
before his taste for sweets has come to him he has been 
performing the office of scavenger, and feasting on putrid 
and impure animal substances of all kinds ; and should 
we like to exchange the feeling of enmity too often 
nourished against him for one of wonder and admiration 
at his powers and clever works, let us find out all we can 
of his curious life and ways. 

Like bees and ants, the wasps we are sure to find in 
our gardens live in communities, and have among them 
males, females, and neuters or working wasps. Their 
nests too, which contain something like the combs of 
the bee-hives, are found in banks and hollow trees, and 
such situations as are selected by wild-bees for their 
nests. The cells of wasps prepared for the reception of 
the eggs, from which the larvae or grubs are hatched, and 
in which they are carefully fed by nursing wasps, and 
where they undergo the transformation into pupae before 
becoming perfect wasps—these small cradles for their 
future population are formed not of wax like the cells of 
bees, nor of any substance at all resembling it, but of a 
sort of paper made of fine sawdust. Just of such a sub- 


N 


I   S 


 . 


stance as we manufacture of paper and call papier-mache , 
or mashed paper, are formed the combs of wasps. Instead 
of collecting materials from flowers and digesting it into- 
wax, as does the bee, the wasp rasps off fine fibres of 
wood from any paling, dead tree, or gate-post that he 
can get at, and mixing it with some gummy liquid, 
which his own body supplies, makes a pulp, which he 
spreads out into thin sheets of paper, and first lining the 
walls of the round nest with many layers of these, after¬ 
wards with the same material forms the cells, which, like 
storeys of numerous small apartments, fill up the nest. 



The labour undergone by wasps in preparing their 
nests is even more wonderful than what is performed by 
bees within the hives which we prepare for them, and it 
seems to combine the mining and excavating power of 
the ant with the building talent of the bee ? since the 





 . 


       


first operation towards the foundation of a wasp colony, 
is the hollowing out of a long horizontal tunnel in some 
bank, with a large oval cave at the end, sufficiently ca¬ 
pacious to be fitted up afterwards with layers of the tiny 
cradles wanted for the future population. The long 
tunnel and the large cave have both to be hollowed out 
with infinite labour by the gradual removal of the soil 
in the form of minute pellets carried in the wasps’ jaws 
or mandibles, and which the cautious little workpeople 
are careful to carry away to some distance from the 
mouth of the tunnel, so as to prevent the situation of 
the secret passage being detected, through an accumula¬ 
tion of earth near its entrance. Then paper-making 
begins, and more wonderful industry and perseverance in 
kneading and plastering, and when the walls of 'the large 
cave are lined and tapestried with many layers of paper, 
there comes into operation lastly the same constructing 
skill as that of the bee, in forming the tiny six-sided 
cells, crowded together so as to take up as little space 
and material as possible ; only that as each storey of cells 
is placed across the nest horizontally and is separate 
from each other storey, and not joined end to end, as in 
the combs of bees, the cells are flat at the bottom, and 
there is no occasion for the three-sided pyramid at the 
end of each, which is seen in the cell of the bee. The 
storeys in the wasps’ nest are, in fact, placed one above 
another, as in our own dwelling, only that a space is left 
between each storey, in order that the worker wasps 
may get to the young broods in the cells—for the combs 


N   


iSo 


 . 


of wasps are never used for the storing up honey in, as 
those of bees. A most curious contrivance is adopted 
by the s wasps, in order to secure the separation of the 
different storeys and the firmness of the whole nest. A 



little upright pillar of solid wasp-paper mortar is placed- 

between each layer of cells, just as a human architect 

places pillars to support ceilings or roofs over large 

apartments or buildings. When the 

cells are filled with grubs, the attention 

of the wasp nurses to the young is 

equal to that of bees, but it does not 

Portion of Comb, appear that any substance like the bee- 

witli supporting bread of kneaded pollen is formed for 
pillar, from Nest .... , . . . . 

of Wasp their iood, but that the wasp brings 

home to the broods such food as she 
feeds on herself—probably after it has undergone some 
change in her stomach, and it may be that her avidity 
for sweet juices may arise from her desire to carry it 
home for the young of her community. And when the 
cold of late autumn has crept on and the latest of juicy 
pears has been gathered, and windows never left open, 
the life and labours of the wasp end together, the colony 
is reduced down to a few males and females, and a few 
workers, who contrive to survive the frosts of winter, to 
begin again in the spring the construction of a new 
paper city, and are too busy over their work to notice 
in the blossoms of our fruit trees the preparation for 
their autumn feasts. Shall we not after all bid them 
welcome to a share of the dainties for which nature has 
given them a relish as well as ourselves ? 




 . iSf 

In the form of the wasp with its slender waist, is seen 
very plainly the separation between the thorax or chest, 
and the abdomen or stomach, which forms one of the 
distinguishing marks of an insect, while in their lives, 
each individual passes through the three changes, which 
is peculiar to every other insect—first, the grub or larva; 
then, the chrysalis or pupa; and lastly, the perfect insect, 
such as the butterfly, ant, bee, and beetle, in which last 
form the creatures never grow. 


And now let us fancy ourselves taking a walk round 
some garden with those who have been our readers, and 
let us pass in review some of the living creatures of 
whose lives and works we have endeavoured to give a 
history. If our walk be in the early morning, while 
grass and leaves are still damp with dew, we shall be 
very likely to meet with the “ Slow One” of our first 
 , going home, perhaps, after his breakfast on juicy 
leaves of some kind, and we know that he will soon be 
shut up in his shell, and stuck fast against the smooth 
surface of some stone or tree bark, quietly digesting his 
food, while he makes a little addition to the size of his 
shell. We may see, too, many “ Spinners and Weavers,” 
seated in the midst of their delicate, glistening webs, 
waiting for flies, or if the owners of the webs be not 
there, we know that they are in nooks close at hand, 
most carefully concealed, but from out of which they 



     


 . 


can easily run down to seize on their prey; and we may 
notice how cleverly the weavers of the great wheel¬ 
shaped nets have contrived to moor them with long lines 
of web to some distant objects, and may calculate how 
many times their own length are some of those lines 
which they have ejected from their tiny spinnerets. We 
pass on, and may contrive to see the Three-lived Ones 
in each of their states; as caterpillars, feeding on the 
leaves of plants and vegetables ; or hanging to boughs or 
ledges of palings, in their pupa or chrysalis state; or 
meet them in their most perfect form, as lovely butter¬ 
flies, fluttering about among flowers, or just resting on 
them long enough to send down their long drinking 
tubes into their nectaries. As we tread the gravel paths, 
we are sure to notice some doings of the u Underground 
Workers,”—some piles of earth thrown up while they have 
been excavating a cave-city, or we may see a long pro¬ 
cession of them crossing a path, some going one way 
and some another, on important business no doubt; 
very busy and very fussy, and yet stopping occasionally 
to touch feelers and have a talk; or we may see where a 
number of them are making their way up the stem of 
some standard rose-tree, in order to “ milk their cattle 
that is to say, take from the green aphides on the 
rose-buds and stalks the sweet honey-dew. We see here 
and there and everywhere that flowers and blossoms are 
to be found, the “ Busy Ones” collecting honey and 
pollen, dipping their flexible tongues now into this flower- 
cup and now into that, and burying themselves in others 


 .      

so deeply that they come out white, or red, or yellow, 
with pollen, which is to be kneaded at home into bee- 
bread. During all the time of our walk we hear the 
cheerful trills and twitters and sweet notes of countless 
birds, and see them busy in their search after food, while 
we know that most of them have snug little nests in the 
trees and shrubs, and amid the ivy on walls about us, 
filled with young fledglings whom they never forget to 
provide for. As we pass a strawberry bed, we may 
chance to see some frog waiting with his large mouth 
and long tongue ready for trapping flies ; or may chance 
to come upon a mole, who may have ventured up from 
his burrows underground. Even when we walk about our 
gardens in winter time, when all seems so still and quiet, 
we may remind ourselves of how much life there is still 
around us, or provision for future life. Ants down in 
their subterranean cities, taking their long winter sleep. 
Bees also dormant in their hives. Little mice snug and 
dozing in their warm nests; while in every nook and 
cranny of tree-trunks and branches, and in chinks of 
palings and walls, are eggs and pupns of all manner of 
insects, waiting only for the warmth of spring to bring 
them into life. 

And as we are reminded of all the creatures whose 
history, or even»a portion of it, we have read, and 
whose ways we have been led to observe, we cannot but 
reflect with wonder on the abundance of life and the 
endless variety in the forms and modes of life to be 
observed even in the creatures who are to be found 


     


 . 


within the compass of a garden. We have seen, too, 
how their bodies and all their powers are most wonder¬ 
fully suited for the support and preservation of their 
lives. We have learnt that not only can each creature 
provide for itself, but has the inborn knowledge and 
impulse which we call instinct , prompting it to take most 
tender care of its young, or leading it to provide for its 
offspring beforehand, whom it will never see or know. 
We have seen how curious and marvellously skilful are 
some of the works of these small creatures for all these 
purposes—the web of the spider, the cell of the bee, the 
cocoon of the caterpillar, and the nest of the bird; and 
we know with what fidelity and unwearying patience and 
industry they employ all the capacities and powers given 
to them by nature ; all which cannot fail to inspire us, 
not merely with love for them, but leads us to feel some¬ 
thing like respect for these our little fellow-creatures, 
who, like ourselves, have received so many tokens of 
the loving-kindness and tender mercy of Him “ who 
made and loveth all.” 



Long-tailed Field Mouse. 