

CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER I. 

PAGK 

INTRODUCTION . 1 



CHAPTER II. 

GRAPHIC SKETCHES 18 

CHAPTER III. 

A TRAGEDY IN THE GRASS 33 

CHAPTER IV. 

SUBTERRANEAN CITIES 49 

CHAPTER V. 

AN EXCURSION INTO THE HYMENOPTEROUS WORLD . . . G8 

CHAPTER VI. 

WANDERING TRIBES 90 



riii CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER VII. 

PAOK 

NOTES OF THE TRAVELS OF A CENTIPEDE 105 

CHAPTER VIII. 

SOLITARY BEES 119 

CHAPTER IX. 

DIGGERS 136 

CHAPTER X. 

STILT WALKERS 152 

CHAPTER XI. 

FUOM THE MEADOW TO THE WILDERNESS . . . . . . 167 

CHAPTER XII. 

A VINDICATION 183 

CHAPTER XIII. 

THE OBSEQUIES OF A FIELD MOUSE ........ 198 

CHAPTER XIV. 

CONCLUSION 213 




THE 



POPULATION OF AN OLD PEAR-TREE. 



CHAPTER I. 

INTRODUCTION. 

WHEN certain blue spirits begin .to flit 
about me, I depart from my study to go and 
read, in what I am allowed, even by my clerical 
uncle, to call my book of devotions. 

The devotions I mean are not in my book- 
case. No publisher, if he ever thought of such 
a thing, could bring them out. They are a page 
of the book of Nature, opened in the country, 
under blue sky, displayed at all seasons. Every 



one has looked at that book, but few of us under- 
stand it in any degree, and the man who could 
read it all would be the wisest in the world. 

In short, my book is a meadow lying not 
far from the town where I was born. A 
substantial farmer gets two crops of hay off it, 
and is well satisfied. 

I go there to do nothing, and am still better 
satisfied, and we are not at all in each other's 
way. 

No traveller in search of scenery has ever 
found so fair a spot as my meadow. Set within 
a frame of beautiful hills, it is like a great 
amphitheatre, the only entrance being a narrow 
cleft with a brook at the bottom. It is entirely 
enclosed by a verdant screen of ambitious shrubs. 
Unnumbered generations of primroses, periwinkles, 
violets, and lilies of the valley grow on the 
slopes. Birds make their nests there, twittering 
and singing at the top of their voices ; one 
insect chases another from flower to flower like 
fantastic sylphs; thence the bee draws her honey, 




there the hare makes her form ; my meadow is 
all jubilant with song, colour, and light. Now I 
will tell you how I was admitted into its secrets. 

One day I went out with heavy head, restless 
eye, and gloomy temper. I walked straight on, 
like a crane or a bittern, without pausing at the 
wayside attractions. Such demeanour, absurd afc 
it is, generally indicates some mental disquiet. 
The happy man, provided he be taken up with 
other thoughts, moves in curves or zigzags, nearer 
and farther, backwards and forwards, in no haste 
to be at his journey's end. I had, however, no 
reason to complain that I had trusted to the 
guidance of my star. Chance, the odours of 
spring, and a fortunate instinct, conducted me 
on that day to a splendid discovery. 

All at once I found before me a vast lawn 
clothed in green velvet, with gold and silver 
enamel. Some old trees stretched out into the 
sunshine ; stunted and knotty, they waved in the 
breeze their long limbs all covered with infant 
fruits. 

 

At sight of them the frown left my brow, 
and I began to improve. I relaxed my hurried 
pace ; I began by sitting down, and at last lay 
down at full length on the grass. I like that 
posture, for it disposes one to contemplation. 

I cried, " Oh how good it is to see no more 
houses, streets, or squares ! How I enjoy this 
sweet solitude, full of love and peace, gaining 
new charms from each dawning day ! " 

With this, my thoughts wandering in a thou- 
sand visions, the characters of past, present, and 
future, I soon came to dream that I was dreaming ; 
then softly, without effort, slipping from one 
breath to another, I slept the sleep of the just. 

Gradually I became, as it were, lulled and 
benumbed by dreamy sensations ; but I was 
startled out of this happy condition by angry 
howls, uncertain cries, and passionate exclama- 
tions resounding close to me. One voice mur- 
mured : 

" Oh, what pain I am in ! bruised all over, 
and my wing dreadfully crumpled ! If I only 




could get it out ! But no, he will not move, and 
I am kept prisoner by a bent stalk." 

Others cried, " Prick him, bite him, tear him 
with your sharp claws : he is a hideous arid 
disgusting monster ; he cannot take a single 
step without committing a crime ; his path is 
strewed with the dead and dying/' 

I immediately felt a strange tingling in all 
my limbs, but it was too slight to wake me 
entirely. It seemed as if all the pores of my 
skin were being furnished with wondrously sharp 
and piercing eyes. All my senses at once be- 
came marvellously acute. The hum of a gnat 
seemed like the sound of a trumpet, and the per- 
'fume of lilies of the valley, wafted on the breeze, 
was strong enough to intoxicate my senses. 

" Is this," I thought, " the beginning of another 
life, and have I died without finding it out 1 
After all, why should I be surprised 1 Did I 
make a note of my natal hour, the fleeting moment 
when I inhaled my first breath ? Dead or alive, 
I will be all ears and eyes." 



I now saw the face of nature under a quite 
novel aspect, from the point of view of the 
smallest members of creation. Instead of re- 
clining on a carpet of greensward, I found I 
was in an immense tangled forest made up of 
giant grasses, whose long streamers waving in the 
air were composed of a splendid tissue of green 
and gold spangled with crystal spikes. The most 
humble flowers appeared to me to be magnificent 
plants of unusual splendour. The very daisy 
close beside me had acquired a majestic grace, 
and the stalk surprised me by its dimensions. 
This stem was of a tender green colour and 
clothed with long glassy hairs, growing more close 
together at the top, forming fasces around 
the flowery crown. Among the pretty white 
petals so often used by young girls in divining 
their fortunes, where I had never before seen 
anything but the golden heart, I now perceived 
a great nosegay of yellow blossoms interspersed 
with little transparent balls, and perfectly regular. 
This is no exaggeration ; I really saw what I 




describe, remembering all the time that it is hard 
to believe. 

The very ground was changed wherever it was 
not covered with grass. The whole surface shone 
with precious stones. Every grain of sand, spark- 
ling with many colours, and darting a thousand 
fires, was worthy to be set in a sovereign's ring. 

I remembered that I had lain down at the 
foot of a pear-tree, just bursting into leaf with 
the warm breath of spring, though much injured 
by the winter's cold. I saw it again, but so 
wonderfully enlarged, that I really could not take 
it all in at once. Its bark had quite disappeared, 
giving place to a rich carpet of white, green, or 
yellow moss, in the most whimsical patterns. At 
times this verdant veil was raised by certain flat, 
bald heads, with great glaring round eyes, and 
bearing powerful hooks instead of jaws, which 
took a curious survey of me. For an instant I 
feared I should be eaten up, and then returned 
to my mind a picture of Breughel's, of the in- 
fernal regions, in which the demons are drawn 




with cloven feet and large stomachs, grinning, 
leaping, and dancing, and with a human form 
struggling among them. Eeally I did deserve a 
chastisement for my intrusion into the meadow, 
the disastrous consequences of which I now had 
power to perceive to the full extent. I had bruised 
the tender stalks of springing grass, broken quan- 
tities of buds, and destroyed myriads of living 
creatures. In my stupid simplicity I had never 
had any suspicion of the pain I caused while 
perpetrating these evil deeds, and had been in 
a state of delight at the profound peace pervading 
the country, and the charms of solitude. What 
peace, and what solitude ! 

I was beginning to pity and say disagreeable 
things to myself, the privilege of intimacy, 
when a stifled cry was forced from my lips, 
and my blood was frozen in my veins by an 
unexpected sight. A terrible creature, at the 
recollection of which I still shudder, had suddenly 
Appeared in my sight, hanging over my head like 
an acrobat on his trapeze. It was an enormous 

spider, keeping her great black eyes constantly 
fixed on mine with a most implacable expression. 
Slowly, slowly did she descend from one of the 
branches of the old Pear-Tree. 

Eeader, allow me here to break into my tale 
with the confession of one of my failings. By 
nature I have many, and am not sorry for it, 
because it is perhaps, thanks to my own faults, 
that I have become indulgent to those of others. 
I have no right to set up for rigid virtue. The 
Athenians banished Aristides because they were 
tired of hearing him called the Just ; and for my 
part, so far I have lived in peace under my own 
roof. Now, of course I am brave, but only about 
half-brave. I am able to make a valiant resist- 
ance to any attack when once hand-to-hand with 
the aggressor ; but when it is a waiting matter, 
seeing him approach gradually, holding his breath, 
and while I momentarily expect a deadly hug, 
which still comes not, at these my nerves become 
agitated, stiffen, give way, and I fall into a strange 
condition. I am not exactly afraid, but I feel as 



a hare must when just found by a pointer-dog in 
her form. Thus was I while the giant spider, full 
of savage strength and vigour, descended from 
the branches of the tree beneath which I had 
slumbered. 

The body was clothed in a kind of grey fur, 
and of a ruddy brown colour, varied by some 
marked patterns in a bright yellow. The active 
limbs, thin, sinewy, of considerable strength, were 
in incessant motion ; they were armed with claws 
like a cat's, and as hard and sharp as blades of 
steel. The mouth bore a pair of mandibles, and 
two hooks. These last implements were each ter- 
minated by a small hole, the issues of canals lead- 
ing from poison-glands full of a deadly liquid. 

I was confounded, and would have given the 
whole world to have been able to run away as fast 
as my legs would carry me ; but they refused their 
office. The spider continued to descend, turning 
and twisting in the wind, and, like a cat watching 
a mouse, stared at me and fascinated me with her 
big jet-black eyes. Strangely engrossed in spite of 



my increasing agitation, I did not miss a single 
one of her movements. The silk she hung by was 
an absolute rope, composed of a vast quantity of 
extremely fine strands, which issued from four 
conical humps she bore on her abdomen. These 
threads at first were sticky and slimy, but soon 
hardened in the air, while she united them by the 
movements of her feet. 

My fate was coming to a crisis. The monster's 
claws were not above an inch from my cheek, 
when she all at once stopped and climbed up hei 
rope with great rapidity. 

I was safe ! Above me, in an immensely 
strong web, which reminded me of the great nets 
our fishermen use, was struggling a black fly, with 
great masses of eyes, arranged like the facets of a 
precious stone on each side of his head, his throat 
and body glittering in the sun as if clothed in 
fine burnished Milan steel. On his back was a 
yellowish moving spot, which really was a parasitic 
insect. This strange rider, foreseeing a catastrophe 
by the instinct peculiar to creatures of his kind, 



was hastily disentangling the two grapplers that 
secured his hold on his victim, and arranging his 
retreat. He was flat and hideous, with long suckers, 
and a body puffed out with blood. 

Poor fly ! It looked so wretched that I almost 
thought its expression human. I had already 
witnessed similar scenes in my native town. Is it 
not thus that the artist, with his love of the 
beautiful, intoxicated with independence, generous 
even to prodigality, falls into the nets of Shylock 
the money-lender, a crawling v/retch, who lives 
by trickery, and watches in the shade for his 
prey? Poor artist! Indignant at having fallen 
under such a yoke, he exhausts his strength in 
futile resistance ! Even so was it with the fly. 
Caught by one wing it struggled frantically. 
There is always some hope, even in the most 
desperate case. 

It is matter, I thought, for rejoicing, that we 
are all ignorant, both men and beasts, of the 
secret of our fate. Great Heaven ! what a life 
should we lead could we guess the riddle of this 



sphinx, immoveable guardian of the shrine! And 
really is not the work hard and harvest scanty 
for a great proportion of us ? Many germs are 
blighted, or do not reach maturity, and many a 
spring is dried up before its silver thread can 
mingle with the great waves of the blue ocean. 
The fly had nearly regained freedom. The 
network around it was yielding on all sides, when 
the spider rushed upon it, and strained it in a 
close embrace. The captive repulsed her, stif- 
fening all its limbs to the utmost, but, sad to 
relate, not in time to avoid a savage wound, filled 
with poisonous juice ; and, thus paralysed, its cou- 
rage was all in vain. The spider, crushing down 
a final throe of life, turned it round and round, 
smeared it with sticky slime, covered it with 
threads, and began to devour it. Meanwhile the 
abject parasite I have before mentioned had let 
itself fall on the ground, and with difficulty dragged 
itself along the sand a short distance from me. 
Certainly the little abortion was not without dex- 
terity. It was of those who survive all disasters, 





pass uninjured through all 

find a niche to rest in somewhere. It all depends 

on constitution. 

I had been greatly excited by these scenes, 
and remained asleep, my head in shade, and feet 
in sunshine. Had my dream lasted minutes, 
hours, or days ? I had no knowledge of time, 
and murmured with my lips : 

" The book of creation is hard to read, and 
at times there is much pain in learning its lessons. 
The whole is contained in every individual thing ! 
The range of our view is bounded by infinity. 
This lowest parasite, fallen from, a fly's wing, 
perhaps had his own vermin preying on himself. 
In space there is star beyond star ; on earth one 
atom is lost in another atom." 

I stopped, confounded by this overwhelming 
thought ; here began my initiation. The cha- 
racter of the meadow had changed, and I thence- 
forward called it my book of devotion. 



MY astonishment had already been excited 
by the vast bulk of the old tree at whose feet 
I had seated myself, and I continued to gaze 
upon it. Firmly anchored in the ground, with 
penetrating powerful roots, and bravely raising its 
splendid trunk with a crown of multitudinous 
branches to the sky, through which it projected 
a wide and deep shadow penetrated by many 
brilliant lights, around it had perished myriads 
of beings benumbed by the approach of cold, 
exhausted by famine and misery ; while it, always 
sound and vigorous, clothed itself with returning 



spring with a fresh vesture. Eain, hail, and storm 
destroying legions of living atoms, could hardly 
bend its head. An unmoved witness, it took its 
part in the many pageants of my meadow's 

stage. 




Envy could not begrudge a princely state to 
this old patrician ; for so it seemed by nature. 
The old Pear-Tree was gentle and kind to the 
weak, like a nobleman come of a good stock. The 



farmer's children climbed the branches yearly, and 
thence gathered a quantity of fine ripe fruit ; 
while wasps and caterpillars took their share. 
Here and there young twigs might be cut away, 
but these slight thefts were of no consequence. 
Does the owner of a great landed property, the 
accumulation of many years, with secure title- 
deeds, trouble himself for the vile pilfering of 
some petty bailiff? He deigns not to interfere, 
although aware of what is going on. Examples 
of all sorts are found in this world, from the 
oak scattering its acorns in the forest, down to 
the animal that searches for them in the mud. 
Ducklings hasten into the water, while chickens 
dare not quit the bank ; each does according to 
its own particular nature. 

Our tree, full of rich sap, had more clients 
than a Roman senator. And first, there lived 
in the folds of the bark a curious race very 
homely, without much elegance, but very lively. 
It was a tribe of woodlice, of all ages, and different 
shapes and colours. Young or old, they looked 






quite unpleasant enough, and I should not have 
liked to see them march towards me. Their bodies, 
all of a size, were composed of ten rings, or plates, 
of an ash colour. I could make out with some 
difficulty a little dusky head in front of the 
foremost, bearing two bending and very active 
antennae. 




They went and came, biting and gnawing all 
sorts of rubbish, and even making attacks on 
the still tender stalks of newly budding plants. 
Did any one of them suffer from any accident, 
the whole party rushed on him, and made a 
meal on his carcase. Is not this too often the 
fate of those who fail, men or beasts ? How 
much better is it to dismember a motionless body, 



like the woodlice, than to fatten on the reputation 
of an honest man. But not to moralize too 
much. 

My woodlice, like some politicians, clever people 
otherwise, often put on a new coat, withdrawing 
carefully from their old shell body, legs, and 
horns. They were of all shades, according to their 
age from pale grey to dark grey, spotted with 
black spots, and little yellow. The females bore 
a little bag of a thin transparent skin, in which 
were enclosed their progeny. 

I was watching them running through the 
moss, when a sharp metallic sound recalled me to 
other scenes. I thought a little silver bell had 
been rung near the mouth of a dark cavern, 
opening in a slope, about two steps off. The 
sound was repeated louder, and I saw appear 
a long head, with four great thick appendages, as 
well as two antennae as fine as threads. Behind 
these antennae were placed two great eyes; between 
them were seen three others smaller, placed in 
the same transverse line. 




As the new-comer emerged from the darkness, 
she displayed two enormous legs, very strong and 
flat, enlarged towards the ends, and terminating 
in six claws, like the teeth of a saw, four turning 
outwards and two inwards. On her breast was 




a long soit of cuirass, almost circular, and covered 
with velvet ; on her back were two short cases, 
laid across and partly hiding two great wings 
folded to a point. 

I at once knew her, from having in my youth 



hunted her, and often unsuccessfully ; it was the 
mole-cricket. 

The insect advanced slowly, ready to return 
to her cave on the least alarm. Living alone she 
had become restless and suspicious, like all those 
who avoid company. Terrified where there was no 
danger, she was only happy in the dark, hanging 
to the feeding roots of some plant, or attacking 
with blows of her claws a wretched earth-worm 
too lazy to escape. 

Why had this misanthrope left her peaceful, 
safe harbour to venture herself into the meadow ? 

The silver bell tinkled on, and its shrill note 
mingled with the sound of the wind among the 
leaves. The mole-cricket heard it with a shudder, 
stopped in uncertainty, and then resumed her 
march, guided by a mysterious power that she 
hardly tried to resist. Was it magnetism, or 
fascination, or combined of both ? A little of it, 
and something more ; for the silver sounds that 
rang around the strange creature were her 
' wedding-bells. Her cruel nature could only be 



softened by spring, with its warm air and 
opening flowers. 

At any other season, very far from greeting 
favourably the elegant gentleman who was now 
tinkling at his own door, she would have rushed ; 
at him and torn his face. To-day, not so warlike, 
almost mild, she passed to the nuptial meeting. 

As the spouses drew nearer, the silver bell 
rang less loudly and more airily. The motions of 
the wings of the male, violent of late, which 
produced this curious sound, grew feebler by 
degrees. He was hid under the grass, and my 
mole-cricket too disappeared there. I heard two 
or three more indistinct and plaintive notes, and 
then the meadow was 'quite quiet. 

At this moment my sensations were indescri- 
bable. Proud of the wonderful perfection of my 
eyesight, and Bearing, rejoicing in these new 
faculties, I wondered how I could ever have lived 
so long nearly blind and half deaf. - Nothing 
now escaped my notice, and all nature found a 
reflection in me, with an especial clearness and 



precision. I was in a state of beatitude, some- 
times felt, but seldom when in perfect health. I 
was alive, and thought, and yet did not feel my 
body any longer. Pain or pleasure was not felt 
in it, as I wandered like a spirit through the 
regions of dream and fancy. Again the grass 
was disturbed, and the mole-cricket returned 
towards me, thrusting itself through the grass, 
and making its way towards the slope of ground. 
When she got a few inches away from her former 
mansion, she extended her great palms and began 
to scratch the earth. Soon an excavation was 
made, lengthened into a perpendicular shaft, then 
turned towards the left at a slight slope. The 
work was done quickly and energetically. 

When this first operation was complete, the 
insect set to work to burrow horizontally, and 
made a small oval chamber, carefully smoothing 
its walls. This was not far under ground, 
between two great roots of the Pear-Tree, and 
not beyond the influence of the heat of the sun. 
There, believing herself secure from interruption, 



the mole-cricket laid about a hundred eggs, 
almost transparent, gelatinous, and of a greenish 
tint. Burial was not enough ; they must be pro- 
tected from marauders. This was provided by the 
careful mother making fortifications round them, in- 
trenchments, ramparts, and covered ways. Satisfied 
with her work, she took post as sentry not far off, 
ready, at the least alarm, to come to the rescue. 

A number of very busy ants were always 
passing, to and fro on the trunk of the old Pear- 
Tree, mounting to the first branches and coming 
down again, for ever repeating the same evolutions. 
I watched one in particular, climbing among the 
lichens and mosses, and searching everywhere with 
its antennae, using them indeed as feelers. At a 
certain height she stopped at once before a kind 
of whitish shell, half hidden between two bite of 
bark. She went round it, and felt it all over, 
pressed it between her paws, and gnawed at it 
in a fever of impatience. 

We will shortly give the history of this egg 
so greedily sought for. 





If an idler had stopped under our old Pear- 
Tree in the first months of summer, he might 
have remarked a sort of woodlouse of liliputian 
dimensions, moving under the leaves and on the 
twigs of the plant ; it had two horns, six feet, 
and a body composed of six rings, and was powdery 
all over. This individual had among othei 
peculiarities an impossible mouth, situated on its 
chest between the first pair of legs. It was 
composed of a sort of hillock or pipe of flesh, 
very short, and proceeding from it a very long 
thin white thread. By this pipe does the little 
creature take its nourishment, thrusting it deeply 
into the vegetable tissues. Our false woodlouse 
with a Greek name, aphis, after wandering some 
time free and happy, settled down, and placed 
itself in a well-sheltered spot. There it remained 
motionless, tired of adventures, without leaving 
the spot. Those limbs, lately so supple, grew stiff 
for want of employment, and at last their use 
was lost. At the end of winter it would have 
perished without sign of life or movement if 




plucked from its retreat. Once fixed, it had 
become larger and stronger, and grown to the 
size of a small bean. As the skin stretched, the 
wrinkles disappeared, and the aphis became n 
slightly oblong lump. 

Our wretched insect thus entered on the last 
stage of its existence. One day this half dead, 
oblong lump began to lay eggs; and as these, 
passing under it, were collected beneath, the shell 
which served them as a wrapper covered them. 
At last it made the plunge from life to death, 
having outlasted the male with his light trans- 
parent wings. 

Then this white shell, hanging between two 
pieces of bark, was the cradle of a generation. 
No wonder now at the excitement of the greedy 
ant at discovering this treasure. Inside were 
many eggs of a reddish colour, hard and shining, 
protected from the cold by a coverlet, like cotton, 
of a white sticky powder. The robber was hard 
at work with her mandibles, . when one of her 
own kind, likewise on quest since morning, all at 





once appeared, and made one spring towards the 
aphis. 

Between the disputants ensued a long discourse ; 
they angrily rubbed their horns against each other, 
clearly remonstrating with one another. At last 
victory declared for the right of the first comer, 
but not -without a violent debate : while the 
intruder yielded unwillingly, without giving up a 
pleasant hope of future fortune, were it no better 
than the gleanings of another's field. Eetiriug a 
couple of inches from the shell, she turned her 
head away with so sad and confused an air that 
I could not help repeating Pliny's words : " In 
formicd non modo sensus sed etiam mens, ratio, 
memoria" That is to say, he attributes to my 
ant mind, reasoning power, and memory. This 
scene was often repeated, and soon around the 
aphis was gathered a ring of anxious -watchers, 
while in the centre the first-comer reigned with 
unrivalled grandeur. She had possession, and 
made a brave defiance to the opposition, with 
fierce gestures of her mandibles, eyes flaming, and 


eloquent antennae. All this was very much like 
parliament, I do assure you, and I fancied I heard 
her say, like one great minister of times gone by 
. . . but just at present I cannot remember his 
speech. Besides, I never understood anything in 
politics, except that it is a science that all the 
world lays claim to knowing, without the trouble 
of learning. I can only answer for one thing, 
that our ant proved to her own satisfaction the 
goodness of her cause, but without convincing her 
antagonists that they were in the wrong. 

Do not those who are lucky enough to be 
formed in the great school of life act much in 
this way, with more or less of talent than the 
victorious ant ? 



CHAPTER III. 

A TRAGEDY IN THE GRASS. 

NEXT came a cockchafer, big, heavy, and 
rough-footed, tumbling about like a comfortable 
citizen who has stayed too long at the public- 
house, and is going home a good deal too late, 
and pretty well scared at being alone. He took 
long steps but did not get on much, for he was 
blinded by the sunlight, and his great tail dragged 
in the sand. At first sight one would have thought 
that he had been feasting too deeply on "the 
branches of the old Pear-Tree, and that some 
drops of dew had disturbed his brain. Yet this 
idea would have been very incorrect ; for in truth 



the poor creature was only dazzled, and certainly 
so might any one have been in his place, for he 
had just made his entrance into the world. 

Four years before, on a fine June evening, 
his mother had dug a trench in the ground at 
the foot of the great tree, and laid some oblong 
eggs in it of a pale yellow colour. When she had 
satisfactorily accomplished this, returning above 
ground she inhaled the balmy breaths of air in 
a melancholy mood ; arid after having spent a 
few days on a leafy branch, at last fell from it 
and died amid the stalks of a forget-me-not. 

She had laid her eggs side by side ; and as 
time went by, and they felt the reviving in- 
fluences of spring, they gradually changed their 
colour. At last thence issued certain six-footed 
white larvae, and among them our cockchafer, 
then only a humble worm a kind of false cater- 
pillar with five rings. His head was scaly, hard, 
and rather brown ; there were two great eyes in 
it, and it had strong jaws, finished off by a pair 
of short antennae. 


Almost with his first breath of life began 
sharp twinges in the region of the stomach, and 
lie set ravenously to work, with a fierce burning, 
insatiable appetite. He grew and changed his 




skin while feeding on savoury roots ; careless 
of what might happen around him, so long as 
he was continually devouring. 


There are such beings, whose heart and brain 
are only other forms of the intestinal canal. 
Speak not to them of art or science, of litera- 
ture or questions of religion ; they neither under- 
stand, nor know, nor hear anything of them ; 
they only eat. 

Thus our larva had gone on eating, and 
eating to the best of his power, everything he 
met with for many months. But his appetite 
relaxed its tyranny as the fourth year drew to 
its close. Then changing his views, he looked 
forth, and was sensible of ambition. In prepa- 
ration for a change, he penetrated deep beneath 
the ground, and there constructed a smooth and 
polished chamber remote from curious glances. 
There he remained torpid until the month of 
February, having once more cast his vulgar skin 
and. changed into a chrysalis, and waked at last 
into a cockchafer, but a soft and white cockchafer. 

The different parts of his body gradually 
gained hardness and strength, and he issued 
from his cell, a joyous insect, but withal some- 




what clumsily, like a countryfied gentleman in 
new clothes mixing among persons of rank. 

Behold him marching forth in public, stretch- 




ing his legs with the airs of a provincial dandy 
freshly launched upon the town. He is in haste, 
after his long sojourn in the dark, to enjoy the 




verdure as it sparkles in the dew. But there is 
a stumbling-block in his way, and he stops in 
surprise. His path is barred by a rock, possibly 
only a pebble. Anybody but a cockchafer would 
go round ; but ours is an enterprising hero, and 
would attempt an escalade. The first attempts at 
first are unsuccessful, for the surface of the stone 
is as smooth as glass. He perseveres, waves his 
great arms in despair, raises himself heavily, and 
after balancing a moment in the air, his head 
turns, and he rolls on his back in the dust, 
abashed and astonished, bruised all over by his 
fall. 

Never, no, never has such a rebuff fallen 
under my notice. Can you imagine the feelings 
of a bachelor of arts finding that there is more 
left for him to learn 1 Have you probed the sen- 
sations of a would-be member, cast back upon 
common life from dreams of becoming the creator 
of his country's happiness by consulting his own? 

These disappointments, these troubles, these 
rebuffs were quite a bed of roses compared to 



what one poor sheath-winged friend appeared to 
feel. To mark his entrance into the world, after 
three years spent in devouring with feverish 
haste, after a most artistic change into a chry- 
salis, and bearing a multitude of privations for 







u whole winter, by such an astounding somer- 
sault, it was sad and heart-breaking ; and yet 
what is more common, among insects at least ? 
In climbing the mountain too many pebbles of the 
plain are to be met with, and more cockchafers 
than one encounter that hard fate. 



However that may be, the poor creature 
struggled in vain to get up. Whilst he lay on 
the sand, crushed into despair, the grass was 
disturbed a short distance from where he lay, 
and made visible a magnificent beetle, with head 
and breast of a splendid golden green, of the 
most brilliant lustre. The wing-cases were 
channelled by three large furrows, and rose in 
an elevated form. The furrows between the 
ridges were more brilliant than the edges of the 
wing-cases, and the corselet was heart-shaped. 
The eyes were brown, antennae and feet fawn- 
coloured, and abdomen greenish black with slightly 
gilded specks. 

It was easy to see that here was a somewhat 
important personage ; an old acquaintance of 
the illustrious Linnaeus, who had conferred on 
him the title of Carabus viridis, whom the 
profane call by the more familiar name of 
predatory beetle.

He too, as well as our miserable cockchafer, 



traced his growth from a larva ; but what a larva 
it was ! Long, round, soft, white, with six scaly 
feet. There was armour on the back of his head 
a round plate of a brown colour, a sort of 
natural buckler and in front of it a greedy mouth 
furnished with two strong jaws. He never lived 
on roots, but on raw and bleeding flesh. To 
obtain this choice nourishment recourse was had 
to deception, and he dug a pitfall, with his own 
head for the lid of it. Anything that passed 
over this moveable surface could not help falling 
into the gulf, where it was torn to pieces by 
teeth and claws. 

One of his relations, the larva of the square 
gold predatory beetle (Cardbus amatus), does the 
same with less trouble. He just places himself 
in a nest of processionary caterpillars, and eats 
them up at leisure. 

Our predatory beetle, on assuming his final 
shape, had not altered his manners. Not only 
was he always clad in complete armour for war, 
but even had received from nature a new weapon 



of offence, being provided with an acrid, burning 
liquor that he could cast upon his foes; a real 
insect of prey, Living by rapine and destruction, 
active, alert, and vigorous, full of courage and 
ferocity. 

The moment that he set eyes on the still 
prostrate cockchafer, he rushed on it with incon- 
ceivable nimbleness, dug his claw into its body, 
and, horrible to relate, was devouring it like a 
ferocious tiger. I felt a great desire to crush 
him with a stone, and make an application of the 
law of retribution. But what could I do as I lay 
torpid ? Was not my own life in danger ? True, 
I had been a man, and as such one of the lords 
of creation ; but was I so still ? All was altered 
around me, and my ideas were not so very clear. 
Had I any right to kill this creature I, whose 
neighbours raise sheep and oxen, cherish these 
animals, feed and pet them, to end by cutting 
their throats or breaking their heads with a pole- 



axe ? 



The cockchafer was at the point of death ; his 





feet only moved feebly. Why, destitute of beak 
and claws, was lie rash enough to enter a world 
unfit for him ? Why had he scorned the humble 
lot of larvae, to mix with the aristocrats, to 
whom he was fated to fall a victim ? The 
Carabus, his head buried in the bleeding body, 
smeared with the sap of life, enjoyed his piece 
of luck, when one of my little ants on a 
foraging expedition appeared on the scene of 
slaughter. Instantly, with wonderful perception, 
she understood the scene. She rose on her fore- 
feet, raised her antennae in astonishment, lowered 
them, and slipped through the grass in haste 
towards the scene of conflict. 

What was she going to do 1 Did she desire, 
like a jackal], to gather up the crumbs of this 
lion's feast ? Was she not rash in venturing so 
near the high and mighty Carabus Viridis ? 

I followed all her movements with the great- 
est curiosity. She drew near the pre-occupied 
Carabus, made a circuit round him, climbed on 
his back, and furiously attacking him at the 



chink of his armour between head and corselet 
made him let go his prey. The Carabus, enraged 
at this sudden assault, made violent efforts to get 
rid of his enemy ; but she clung tight, and 
grievously vexed him with bites. At last he 
became alarmed, made a furious bound, left 
his victim, and rushed into a thicket, quite weary 
and out of breath. This was doubtless just 
what the ant wanted ; for, slipping down along 
her adversary's wing-covers, she set herself to 
watch. 

This scene had passed so quickly that I had 
hardly time to consider it. The ant remained 
motionless, raising her fore-feet in a vigilant 
attitude. 

I soon saw why. Lord Carabus Viridis, 
astounded only for the moment by the violent 
assault he had suffered from, had ceased to 
retreat, and returned to the charge. No one, 
however great a philosopher he may be, will- 
ingly gives up a good meal, especially if he has 
been up with the dawn, and has not yet had 



his breakfast. He looked in doubt from right to 
left, saw nothing suspicious, and sprang back to 
his place by the cockchafer. 

The ant was on the look-out for him. Swift 
as lightning she fastened on him again, found a 
new way through the joints of his armour, and 
pricked him so sharply that he shrank with pain, 
and in his turn rolled on the ground. Rising 
painfully, conquered, disgraced, completely out of 
sorts, he scampered off at his best pace, this time 
with no notion of returning. 

The ant remained victorious on the field of 
battle. 

" In formica non tnodo sensus, sed etiam 
mens, ratio, memorial Mind had triumphed over 
brute force. 

" Brave and honoured ant ! " I cried in trans- 
port ; " she has a noble heart, whatever the grass- 
hopper may say. There she comes, like the 
knight-errant of song, to succour the feeble arid 
oppressed. This burning sympathy for the suf- 
ferer, this active and devoted charity, implies 



generous and lofty sentiments. May Heaven 
confound detractors ! " 

Alas ! my enthusiasm did not last long. My 
ant was of the positivist school, and thought of 
nothing less than the glory of a generous action. 
When she found herself alone, she came softly 
and steadily up to the cockchafer and set to 
work on him with a good appetite. When she 
found she had eaten enough, her journey was 




resumed ; till meeting another of her kind, she 
immediately made a communication to her by the 
contact of antennae. The new-comer too at once 
retraced her steps, while the first calmly resumed 



her place by the body. A moment later I saw 
a quantity of ants arrive from all the paths traced 
round the blades of grass in hastening waves, 
marching fiercely, like a division on an expedition. 
The cockchafer was soon covered with them, so 
that I could hard]y see him. They minced him 
up, they crumbled him to bits, and in a few 
moments nothing was left of the poor w r retch but 
a pair of horny wings, some braised legs, and his 
corselet half buried in the sand. "Sic transit 
gloria mundi ! " All is dust and will return to 
dust. Will the cockchafer grubs take warning by 
the sad fate of one of them ? will they live for the 
future in a more retired manner, taking thought 
that if obscurity is less joyful than broad day, 
it affords also greater safety ? In a word, will they 
be wiser than most ' men 'I None can tell. 




CHAPTER IT. 



SUBTERRANEAN CITIES. 

NOTHING conduces to meditation so much as 
silence, and all sound had died away around me. 
So I reflected on the late events, and the result 
was that I all at once cried out, running the 
risk of rousing the surrounding echoes : 

" Of all the creatures that fly in the air, 
Swim in the sea, or tread earth so fair, 
From Paris and Rome to Peru and Japan, 
The most foolish beast, as I think, is man." 

The lines are Boileau's, but I applied them to 
myself, and had good reason for putting faith 
in them. 



"What!"! went on, "did I indeed find fault 
with a foolish caterpillar, because it was disturbed 
with a notion of rising in life in obedience to 
the instinct of improving its condition ? Am I 
no longer an ardent disciple of the great mindn 
who have proclaimed the doctrine of continual 
progress, and must I take my place among the 
company of meditative admirers of routine ? " 

Taking everything into consideration, our cock- 
chafer had made only one mistake, and that de- 
stroyed him, he went away from his kind. The 
eagle, the lion, the tiger, live alone enfolded in 
their own fierce royalty, but this condition only 
suits peculiar natures. Little creatures should 
assemble and increase their power by combina- 
tion. Divided, they fall a prey to the strong ; 
yet, united, their power is invincible. Hercules, 
the conqueror of the Erymanthian boar, would 
have been put to flight by a legion of ants. 

As we are on the subject of ants, let us pay 
them a-, visit and endeavour to penetrate some of 
their secrets. Our friends of the great Pear-Tree, 




as we have before pointed out, were of the black 
race. Their city was placed at the edge of a 
path, about two yards from the tree. 

They had then made excavations and dug 
long galleries underground, sustaining the roof 
by employing roots as pillars. The walls of 
their habitation were quite smooth and perfectly 
regular. 

When once our ants were under ground they 
penetrated more deeply into the earth, and 
added a second and third story to their abode. 
Precautions had to be taken against everything 
the cold of winter, the increase of population, 
and the damage that might be caused by tor- 
rents of rain. Such a building as theirs, so 
solidly supported, presented great advantages for 
withstanding such calamities. 

Most irreproachable order reigned in the colony 
that we are describing. Labour was held in high 
esteem, and each one who took his share always 
in turn applied himself to the public good. The 
needs of the society were supplied by hunting, 






and, contrary to the generally-received opinion, 
no provision was made for winter. The workers 
or neuters that is to say, the most active mem- 




bers of the tribe issued at daybreak to attack 
anything eatable. Fruits, seeds, dead animals, 
nothing came amiss to them. At times, as we 



have seen, they fell upon a living insect, and 
tried to take possession of it. If they did not 
find that they were strong enough to do what 
they wanted, they sent to seek for assistance, 
and their victim was soon brought down, yielding 
to force of numbers and unable to escape them. 
The enemy, eager for his destruction, not only 
employed their mandibles like crowbars and pin- 
cers, but also an acrid irritating liqutr, called by 
chemists formic acid, which has a most violent 
poisonous action. 

With the approach of cold our ants retire 
into their galleries, and close the mouths of them 
with great care. Then collecting in their larger 
chambers, heaped close on each other, they fall 
into a deep torpor. What would be the use in 
collecting provisions they would not know what 
to do with ? They have no need of them, and 
await in their subterranean palace the return of a 
more mild and genial season. 

Is not the story of the Sleeping Beauty in 
the Wood, so charming in its simple grace, a 



leaf borrowed from my book ? Good heavens ! 
what are we coming to if the fairy tales, to which 
envious pedants of our day object on the pre- 
text that they hinder children of two years old 
from taking a fancy to mathematics, are be- 
coming realities ? 

The workers are not devoted to the chase 
alone. A great number of them, less warlike 
but not less useful, have other cares. Before 
we speak of these, in order better to understand 
their importance, let us make another descent 
into their city, as we have only yet studied its 
borders. 

In some tolerably spacious chambers we see 
a crowd of eggs piled close together. They are 
of different shapes and colours. The smallest 
are round, white, and opaque ; the larger are more 
transparent, and have one end slightly curved. 
Others, of medium size, are semi-opaque, and a 
sort of white cloud is visible within, longer or 


shorter. Around these watch with anxiety and 
(are the workers we have alluded to. Standing 



high on their fore-feet, there they are ready to 
defend their charge. Some are engaged in open- 
ing the entries and kneading the ground, while 
others remain inactive. If the sun lights up the 
outside of the nest, the sentinels placed outside 
nastily descend to the bottom of the habitation, 
strike their comrades with their antennae, seize 
on those who seem not to understand them, 
and drag them to the top. 

Soon the whole is in commotion. The larvae 
and nymphae that spring from the eggs before- 
mentioned are borne with all haste to the sur- 
face of the ant-hill to receive the rays of the 
sun. After an interval they are returned to 
chambers where there is a warm temperature, 
but where they are protected from too glaring 
light. When the star of day is veiled with 
clouds, or sinks beneath the horizon, the larvae are 
gathered up again and conveyed to the galleries. 

The larva of the black ant is like a little 
worm with black feet, fat, short, and conical. 
The body tapers and bends towards the fore- 



part, and is composed of a scaly head and 
twelve rings. The mouth presents two hooks, 
above which are seen four little points, two on 
each side, besides a little round protuberance by 
which the creature receives his portion. The 
workers give it to him every day, and there is 
nothing more curious than to see the young 
larvse reaching out with difficulty, and trying to 
draw near to their nurse in order to receive 
from her mandibles the nourishing fluid she 
has prepared for them. 

Such care must necessarily produce excellent 
results. The larvae having become large and fat, 
end by refusing all nourishment, and spin them- 
selves a shell of silk of a close texture, very 
smooth, round, and pale yellow. Beneath the 
protection of this elegant case they tear off their 
skin, and afterwards appear in all points^ like the 
perfect insect. But their limbs are still weak 
and delicate, and would be incapable of exertion. 
They remain motionless, pass from white to pale 
yellow, then to russet, and in some species 



brown or nearly black. This is the moment 
awaited by the workers. They then approach, 
and with their mandibles make a cleft in the 
shell and divide it from top to bottom. They 

remove the satin pellicle that envelopes our little 
mummy, pull out its benumbed feet, support, 
encourage it, and teach it the way through all 
the labyrinths of the nest. 

The power of the tribe, already on a firm 
basis, becomes freshly developed. Some brilliant 
black flies, with their delicate wings in continual 
motion, make their appearance among the workers. 
These are the male and female population of the 
colony, which must some day face abroad, and 
go to establish new families at a distance. 

These winged ants, issuing from darkness, born 
under ground, appear to have some presage of 
their future destiny. They are anxious and rest- 
less, searching for an issue to the light, blue sky, 
and wide open space that they feel must exist. 
They take but little interest in what passes around 
them ; their hopes direct them to another life. 




How much to be pitied would they be were they 
endowed with such instincts in human society ! 

People would say to them, "Why do you 
weary us with your senseless desires, your wishes, 
your doubts, and compel us to think of a lot of 
things we have nothing to do with ? Submit to 
the common lot of labour, and give up these 
foolish fancies." 

These are wise counsels, and yet what would 
become of the ant-hill unless some of these winged 
creatures were born there from time to time ? 
What would society be did not some adventurous 
and rash individuals occasionally quit the beaten 
track that leads to security, and make excursions 
over hill and dale at the risk of falling into a 
quagmire ? The footpath is the predecessor of a 
main road, and it is very necessary for some one 
first to trace it out if one is not to go for ever 
in one unvarying circle. I think- 
But what events are passing in our under- 
ground city ? The winged ants, in ever-increasing 
numbers, advance in crowds towards the different 



exits, endeavouring to escape from the ant-hill. 
The workers resist, clinging to them, and en- 
deavouring to retain them by force. It seems as 
if every grain of sand were changed into a living 
black mass, and to join in the struggle. Nothing 
can be seen in the dim light but bodies entangled, 
heads armed with mandibles, and the glancing of 




transparent wings. The disturbance extends, be- 
comes general, and ascends to the surface of the 
ground. 

Beautiful and poetical allegories have been 
made about this annual departure, with all its 
touching varied incidents. 




Often has it been said, "Do not these winged 
airy beings, so eager to be independent, and desirous 
of pleasure, represent joyous and thoughtless youth ? 
And are not these workers, faithful and devoted, 
taught so much by pain and labour, the living re- 
presentation of experience and good sense ? Trem- 
bling for those they love, they would still detain 
them, provide them against impending danger, and 
show them that together with liberty arises indi- 
vidual responsibility, increasing in like proportion. 
They are no longer listened to ; the flood swells, 
rises, and will soon burst the dykes." 

This idea is elegant, but not correct. If the 
neuter ants are full of sense, they have not the 
futile wisdom of the schoolmaster in La Fontaine, 
who made a long discourse to the drowning boy 
instead of lending him a helping hand. They 
understand the impatient burning desires of their 
winged companions, and only temporarily oppose 
their migration in order to ensure its success. If 
a ray of the sun appears, a clear warm sky, or 
a fine day, the barriers are removed, the gates 



opened, and the whole band impatiently rising at 
once, fly in clouds into the air. 

Our ants have obtained their freedom, and 
wander joyfully in space. Does not the young 
girl at her first ball feel as if she were in ethereal 
realms of poetry ? Does she wish to know what 
happens to the insect, small though it be, attired 
like her for the great summer season ? 

The ants flit backwards and forwards, charmed 
with their emancipation, and happy in the act of 
living. Each seeks for one to love, and thus they 
meet at last in a blaze of light beneath the blue 
sky, amid the harmony of nature. Then they stop 
in their rapid flight, shake their wings, and 
find them useless. Of what further service would 
they be except to fly from happiness ? A bride, 
a wife, a mother, must dream no longer ! such is 
our ant's opinion ! 

Why should they have wrings when stationary 
for ever ? Our insects resolutely make the sacrifice, 
and tear them off by waving them, so as to weaken 
the muscles which unite them to the corselet, and 



inching them off with their legs. Thus they are 
uin upon the ground, walking with difficulty 
amoW the leaves, and prepared to struggle with 
the realities of life. 

While they had wings their only thought was 
pleasure. Their duties on touching the earth 
become higher, nobler, and purer ; they have to 
perpetuate their race. 

If their wayward flight has not led them too 
far from their native ant-hill, the workers at once 
Assemble round them, to cherish, protect, and con- 
duct them back to the galleries, where they be- 
come real objects of worship, for maternity makes 
them sacred. They are 'overwhelmed with atten- 
tions, and even carried from one place to another. 
The body of the female is hooked up and sus- 
pended from the mandibles of her bearer, and 
rolled like a butterfly's trunk. It is twisted so 
well under the corselet of the worker as 'not to 
inconvenience its motions. At times they think 
it enough to drag her ; but if the ant entrusted 
with this burthen becomes weary, another takes 



the place, and the moment she is thus laid down 
the female is surrounded by her court, all showing 
their affection. The eggs as soon as produced 
are gathered and brought together round the 
mother. 

Such is the lot of the most fortunate ; but 
the wind bears others far away from their native 
spot, and they find they are left to their own 
resources ; but, stimulated by maternal affection, 
they do not recoil from the arduous task imposed 
on them. Alone, without helpers, they make 
abodes for themselves, lay their eggs, then watch 
over them, and bring up the larvae. 

The attachment of worker ants for their females 
appears to extend beyond their existence. When a 
mother dies, five or six of her followers remain 
near her, brush or lick her without ceasing for 
several days, and seem as if they wished to raise 
her again to life by thus attending on her. 

Such was the political economy of the society 
of black ants established at the foot of our great 
Pear-Tree. We have seen how they construct their 



habitations, bring up their families, and perpetuate 
their race. 

To complete this study and make it more in- 
teresting, we will collect in a subsequent chapter 
some details on other tribes of ants, whose works 
are most curious. Some of them too live in my 
meadow, and their habits bring them likewise 
round the great tree. Thence arise terrible com- 
bats, bloody encounters, and fields covered with 
dead and wounded. What a strange business it 
is ! At times the ants themselves declare war 
upon one another, for it is not the nations of mer 
alone who have their victories or suffer defeats. 


CHAPTER V. 

AN EXCURSION INTO THE HYMENOPTEROUS WORLD. 

.ONE fine summer day when I was just sixteen, 
I took ifc into my head to produce a masterpiece. 
Sixteen is the era of such plans ; but they are 
more easily conceived than executed, although 
they may be fair in the germ. They generally 
come into the world with such grave faults of 
construction, that they are at last found to be 
hardly substantial enough to arrive at full age. 
At any rate I seized my pen at once, for I had 
no doubts of myself nor of others, and I wrote 
a very fanciful poem, in which all created beings 
flung themselves into a Bacchanalian ecstasy. In 
it I represented the animals holding festival and 



frolic, dancing and gambolling from morning to 
night, and man among them all, their master and 
their king, the only worker, weary with the noise 
of their everlasting merriment. 

The moral to be deduced from such an idea 
can be easily perceived. On the one hand, life 




but for a day, joys of a moment, fleeting plea- 
sures soon interrupted by death ; on the other, 
deep meditation, consideration for the future, 
heroic sacrifices, indefinite perfectibility .purchased 
at the price of great sufferings. 

I had just put the finishing stroke to my 


composition, and it had assumed a sufficiently 
presentable shape, with the slight drawbacks of 
a few bad rhymes, a few halting lines, several 
inflated passages in bad taste, a great many re- 
dundant adjectives, and a thousand more details 
neglected in the manufacture, when I all at once 
perceived that the beasts these poor beasts whom 
I had so maligned themselves too had to undergo 
severe labour, and were obliged to toil as wearily 
for their livelihood as ourselves. 

First, the mole, a prudent creature notwith- 
standing her supposed blindness, showed me that 
she had to burrow in the earth to find her food. 
Then I remembered that the beaver is a clever 
engineer, and that the spider has nothing to learn 
from our weavers. Besides, I called to mind the 
green woodpecker, that has to pierce the trees 
with hundreds of blows of its beak before it can 
obtain its food ; and I deliberated with fear on 
the quantity of kicks, bites, and blows endured 
by an individual of the feline race before the 
close of her existence. 



Certainly I Lad set out on a wrong track, and 
was just about to make myself very ridiculous 
with a foolish poem under my arm. Yet let it 
not be supposed that I was totally discouraged by 
this discovery. At sixteen one is not cast down 
by such a trifle, and my resolution was soon 
taken. I instantly commenced another wurk, not 
less remarkable than the first, in which I showed 
that man, far from being superior to the other 
animals, owes to them all his inventions. 

I did not then know my meadow ; or what a 
likeness could I have traced between the black 
or tawny ants contending for the hunting-grounds, 
of which my old Pear-Tree forms the centre, and 
certain tribes of Indians ! 

Lonely expeditions in the forest, the discovery 
of a trail, attacks, surprises, prudent retreats, 
furious combats, capture of prisoners what ad- 
ventures to describe ! Happily for the reader I 
am past sixteen, and will go straight to my facts 

The tawny ants are divided into two great 
nations, distinguished by their colour, which is 


in greater or less proportions of black or red. 
The first inhabit by choice the large woods, and 
make their home among the fern ; the others 
establish themselves in hedges and meadows. 
Otherwise their habits are almost alike. 

The dwellings of these ants are, composed 
of pieces of stubble, morsels of wood, pebbles, 
half broken shells, and of all substances of easy 
transport that they can lay their hands on. 
They even pick up grains of wheat, barley, and 
oats as building material, and this has given the 
notion of their making magazines of provisions 
for winter use. Their architects are very skilful, 
and invest their city with the form of a little 
mountain or dome, with buttresses above the 
ground so that the rain-water may the easier 
run off, and not cause irreparable ravages. Our 
insects are prudent, and wish to protect themselves 
from over-sudden changes of temperature. The 
greatest portion of the nest is hidden, and extends 
more or less deeply Tindtr ground. Avenues, of 
funnel shape but irregular, lead from the top of 


the building to the interior. In number they are 
proportioned to the population of the colony, and 
they are also larger or smaller at their opening. 
Occasionally a great street, the central artery of 
daily movement, passes from one end to the other 
of the hill ; many roads, of nearly equal size are 
often found there, and narrow passages all around 
them conducting to the different quarters- of the- 
city. 

Light is agreeable to the tawny ants,, and they 
care not for the presence of man. They run 
about all day if the sky is clear, and go home- 
at the approach of bad weather, or at nightfall. 
They may then be seen carrying little stakes, 
which they plant in the rampart of chaff in 
order to close up the entrances of their galleries, 
after which they fetch some more smaller ones, 
which they place crosswise against the first. The 
barricades thus formed are strengthened with a 


covering of dry leaves, and the ants are at home. 
As soon as the city gates are shut sentries are 
placed there to watch over the general security, 





and the rest of the tribe take their repose. 
When dawn returns animation recommences ; ' the 
sentries are relieved, the galleries re-opened, and 




the general thoroughfares restored. These works 
are done regularly morning and evening through the 
summer season, unless it is decidedly rainy weather. 




In this case the inhabitants of the ant-hill do 
not pursue their usual course, and their doors 
remain closed. 

Such is the nature of the city of the tawny 
ants ; let us see how they proceed in constructing 
it. Their builders are at work, and do not take 
any further notice of us than if we were not 
lords of creation ! The word is given. They 
have a consultation, and begin by excavating in 
the earth a smaller or larger cavity. Some of the 
ever-industrious workers go to seek materials in 
the vicinity fit for the construction of the ex- 
terior works, and arrange them, not indeed with 
symmetry, but with care to .defend the entrance 
of their future habitation. Others bring portions 
of the earth that they have dug up in making 
the excavation before spoken of, combine them 
with the materials already laid, and take pains 
to fill the spaces and make the -building strong. 
To judge from the outside one would think that 
it was a solid mass, but we know that it is not 
so. The interior is gradually hollowed, and soon 


divided into several stages, and penetrated by 
galleries which, though low and rudely constructed 
perfectly fulfil their object of serving as a place 
of security for the larvae and nymphse. By 
degrees a large hall of magnificent proportions 
is raised in the centre of the city. It is much 
larger than the other chambers, and the ceiling 
is sustained by great beams curiously supporting 
one another. All the galleries lead to it, and the 
popular assemblies are there held. 

Another tribe of ants, the soldier or sanguine, 
are much like the tawny ants ; the heads and 
antennae of the neuters are of a tawny red, their 
abdomen ash-coloured black. Their habitations are 
composed of earth mixed with bits of leaves, blades 
of grass, moss, and little stones, and are generally 
found in hedges lying towards the south. They 
present this remarkable fact to be observed, that 
living side by side with the proper sanguine popu- 
lation is another of helots or slaves, condemned 
to the more laborious tasks. It is a mixed 
society, rendered very formidable to its neigh- 


bours by its military organization, and whose 
warriors have acquired much fame in the world 
of hymenoptera by their impetuous valour. 

Behold them making a foray traversing any 
great hollows in the ground, with mandibles raised 
on high, and glaring eyes, seeking their enemies ! 
Suddenly they perceive some forms of ash-coloured 
black, from a colony not far from- them. 

This colony is of the humblest sort, for the 
population who have formed it only possess one 
simple and rude ark. They excavated the ground, 
and, bringing it grain by grain, formed a vault 
and covered the gate of the city. Then under 
the vault the workers made trenches at different 
distances, and of a nearly equal depth. The 
rampart of earth between them is treated with 
care to serve as a support for the walls and par- 
titions of the abodes. It is not very fine archi- 
tecture, but what can a wretched insect do with 
no chisel save its teeth, or compasses save its an- 
tennoe, or any other trowel than its fore-feet \ 

Poor and humble as it is, this ant-hill is 


observed by the soldiers, and having held a council 
of war, they determine to lay siege thereto. Some 
warriors, full of warlike ardour, advance at once 
to the camp of the ash-coloured blacks or negroes, 
and spread themselves around the entrance. Imme- 
diately the inhabitants of the menaced community 
are in great anxiety. They rush into their galleries 
to give the alarm, and advance in numbers, bravely 
rushing upon the intruders. An engagement 
ensues, and some over-venturesome sanguines are 
overwhelmed by numbers and carried into cap- 
tivity. Their companions are contented with 
defending their positions. Calm and confident in 
the success of their arms, they await reinforce- 
ments. Every moment small bands of their own 
party come to join and increase their numbers. 
By degrees they approach the camp of the 
negroes, and seem more willing to come to close 
quarters ; but the more they mingle with the 
besieged, the more they seem in haste to send 
couriers to their own nest. These last arrive in 
haste, deliver their message, give orders, and at 



THE HYMENOPTEROUS WORLD. 79 

once a new swarm starts to join the army. Yet 
the sanguines do not hasten to give battle, and 
only alarm the negroes by keeping their ground. 
The latter occupy a space of two square feet in 
front of their ant-hill ; the greater part of the 
nation has come forth to take part in the 
struggle. Around the parallels of attack are now 
to be seen individual conflicts,- and generally it 
is the besieged who attack the besiegers. A 
vigorous defenee might be expected, from the 
great numbers of the negroes, but they are not 
confident in their forces, and are oppressed by the 
thought of the Burslings confided to them, and of 
the methods of securing their republic from entire 
destruction. 

Long before the issue of the contest can be 
foreseen they may be observed carrying their 
larvae out of the caves, and heaping them lap at 
the side opposite to that assaulted. Thus they can 
more easily convey them off if r contrary to all ex- 
pectation, victory does not favour the right ! The 
young females also hurry in the same direction. 


It is only just in time, for the storm draws 
near, and the thunder will soon break in the 
midst of this terrified population. The soldiers, 
now in force, throw themselves on the enemy, 
attack them at all points, and even reach the 
dome of the city. The negroes, after a deter- 
mined conflict, give up the defence, arid, seizing 
the nymphse they had heaped together outside the 
ant-hill, raise them in their mandibles, and run 
off in all directions. The soldiers pursue them, 
and endeavour to carry off the treasure. In the 
midst of the -defeat some blacks with admirable 
devotion still resist, strive to penetrate into the 
low passages to convey off some larvae from 
thence, and are at least secure of the honour 
of perishing on the field of battle. 

Alas ! there is a moment when heroism 
becomes madness. The city is given over to be 
pillaged. The soldiers run all over it, seize 
the whole of the avenues, and seem as if they 
would take possession of the devastated nest. 
Dividing into squadrons, they proceed to carry 


off any larvae and nymphse that may have been 
loft behind. They establish a continuous chain 
from one habitation to the other, and employ 
the rest of the day in housing their plunder. 
At nightfall, when of necessity the work must 
cease, all is not yet under cover. This is pro- 
vided for ; a post of sanguines keeps watch in 
the city taken by assault to keep off other 
depredators. 

Next day at dawn they begin again to bear 
off their prey ; while the vanquished nation, 
resigned to their fate, found a new colony 
elsewhere. 

Every year these sanguine ants make five or 
six such expeditions to provide themselves with 
slaves and assistants. Born for fighting, they 
understand no domestic labours. It is their 
slaves to whom is entrusted the task of con- 
structing their galleries, of tending the larvae 
and nymphae, and of all the little labours of 
their common life. The negroes which have 
become captives have no idea of escaping from 


their conquerors. They receive them with delight 
as they come home from their hunting expeditions, 
and devote themselves to their service with un- 
alloyed zeal. 




Really, is not all this very strange? What! 
can miserable insects speak of their campaigns, 
recount their wounds, and boast of their ex- 



ploits ? Doubtless ! but our self-love need not 
take offence : they have not yet invented any 
needle-gun nor improved rifled cannon. Besides, 
they only fight when necessary, and do not know 
how to enjoy a triumph. We are more advanced 
in that way, thanks to our civilization ; not only 
do we fight when compelled by circumstances, 
but also for glory, the honour of the flag, and 
the pleasure of conquest. Indeed, as chronicles 
say, we often take up arms without knowing 
why, without even asking why. Such facts are 
enough to insure to us an unquestioned supe- 
riority over the wretched ants. 

The nation of sanguines not only owns slaves, 
but also breeds numerous herds. It is true that 
their cattle are not much like ours. They are 
of all colours, green, white, bronze, or pearl grey. 
Many browse peacefully on the old Pear-Tree, and 
they are as brown as if dipped in coffee. They are 
small insects, having six slender little feet. At 
the end of their solid potbellied bodies are found 
two tubes, terminated by a kind of mouth. 


Some of those insects have wings, and all have 
two long horns bent over their backs, and are 
fed by means of a trunk that they insert 
into vegetable tissues. 

Is not this description very plain, like all 
other descriptions ? In case the reader cannot 




find the answer to the riddle (which would be 
no surprise to us), we will make haste to explain 
it. The milch-cows of the ants are no other 
than plant-lice (aphides). 

Who has not seen them encircling flower 
stems, slipping under the bark of trees, assem- 



bling on the foot-stalk of leaves, in a hideous 
mass side by side, motionless, apparently almost 
inert, leaving round them sweet, sticky spots? The 
ants are very fond of this honey, which passes 
from two tubes we have described as adorning 
the bodies of the plant-lice. They climb to the 
highest branches to gather it, and force the 
insect that produces it to deliver it up to them 
by striking it with their antennae. The dark 
ants especially, and some other species, have 
recourse to this curious proceeding in order to 
obtain food. A few draughts are enough to 
satisfy them. The red ant dexterously seizes the 
little drop of liquor with the swollen extremity 
of the antennse, which she carries to her mouth, 
using these organs as though they really were 
fingers. 

The yellow ants, who hardly ever leave their 
underground dwellings, are always surrounded by 
a great number of plant-lice. Other species, at 
once more ingenious and more prudent, build 
special habitations for them, and collect them 



there. These houses are in different shapes. 
Sometimes they are like a sphere, with the stalk 
of a plant for its axis, and the lower part 
pierced with a very small hole. In other cases, 
when made by the red ants, they are composed 
of a pipe about two inches and a half long and 
nearly as large across. M. Huber, to whom we 
owe so many interesting observations on ants, 
found one of these cases intended for their 
cattle raised, five feet from the ground on a 
small branch of a poplar, just as it sprung from 
the trunk. It was composed of rotten wood, 
and consisted of a short blackish tube. The 
ants entered it from the inside of the tree by 
several excavations, and crept in through an 
opening made at the root of the branch without 
exposing themselves to the daylight. 

The plant-lice of the common plantain retire 
under the root leaves when the stem dries up. 
The ants follow them there, and shut themselves 
up with them by filling with moist earth all the 
intervals between the ground arid the edge of 



the leaves. Then excavating the soil beneath, 
they obtain more space for approaching the 




prisoners, and arrange galleries leading to their 
own dwelling. 

These works are not useless, for they secure 
them victuals for rainy days. Indeed the ants 


do not become torpid at less than two degrees 
below freezing, and when it is not cold their 
activity is not checked. At such times they 
would be in danger of perishing without especial 
resources. The plant-lice furnish what they want, 
and a most extraordinary fact they become 
torpid at the same temperature as their guardians, 
and awake from their lethargy at the same time 
as they do. The kinds of ants that have not 
the instinct of appropriating them to themselves 
at least know the spots where they are in hiding, 
and bring back to their companions the small 
quantity of honey they have gathered from them. 
They charitably distribute these liquid juices, 
whose evaporation is very slow, indeed almost 
insensible. 

The preservation of plant-lice is of so much 
importance to the ants that they even go and 
collect the eggs of these insects. This M. Huber 
has absolutely observed the yellow ants doing. 
They gather and guard these eggs, lick them conti- 
nually, cover them with a gluten that fastens them 



together, and, in short, perform all the cares 
necessary for their welfare. They perform this 
task so well that the precious germs bear fruit 
inside the ant-hill as well as in their natural 
position. 

Could one believe that a solitude is so replete 
with life without having studied the mysteries 
of a tuft of grass ? 



CHAPTER VI. 

WANDERING TRIBES. 

WHILE the labours of the ants were taking 
up my whole attention, the wind had gradually 
risen ; it bent the flexible stems of grass, and 
made them glitter in the sun like ribands of 
crystal with dazzling lustre. The aspect of 
the meadow changed, and my thoughts insensibly 
took another course. I ceased to observe what 
passed around me, to listen to the rustle of the 
grass, the buzzing of insects, and the thou- 
sand noises resounding through space, coming 
from no one knows where, rising, increasing^ 
and diminishing, and all blending together in an 
indefinable harmony. 



Some twigs of the old Pear-Tree were put slightly 
in motion, stretching their long pale green stems 
against the cloudy background of the sky; soon 
the young leaves began to flap, making gleams 
of reflecting light around ; then all were shaken 
at once, producing a heavy and prolonged sound 
like the distant echo of a church organ. One of 
them all at once was broken off from the branch 
it grew upon, was lifted and whirled about in 
the air, wandered for some time round my head, 
and at last fell near me on a tuft of wormwood 
reflecting pale silvery light. Its foot-stalk had 
been eaten away by some insect, and this had 
occasioned its fall before the early chills of 
autumn. On the outer side between two veins 
lay a ' sort of sheath of a brown colour and 
quite dried up. All round this sheath, too skil- 
fully constructed not to be a habitation, extended 
a white discoloured spot, making a marked inroad 
on the rest of the leaf, still green and fleshy. 

This sheath excited my curiosity, and I soon 
discovered the use of it. It served as a shelter 



to a little caterpillar belonging to the numerous 
and powerful family of Tinese. 

This little caterpillar, though common, is never- 
theless not easy to find. Like the Arab shepherds, 
it bears along with it a light tent, often changing 
its residence quits the realms of dearth and moves 
to those where food is abundant. Its tent is the 
sheath that protects its frail and delicate body 
from the attacks of its enemies ; the territory 
it roams over is a light leaf waving in the least 
breeze. Behold it, after one moment's astonish- 
ment at the aerial flight just performed, advancing 
with head down and tail in the air, all the time 
enclosed in. the sheath. At length it pauses, 
makes a slight cut in the leaf, and sliding between 
the two pellicles that form its surfaces, devours 
their contents. When all within reach is con- 
sumed, and it appears that no more nourishment 
can be obtained without entirely coming out of 
the sheath, it again sets out on its travels, 
again takes up a fresh position, and repeats the 
same manoeuvres. 



These sheaths are found not only on the pear 
but also on the elm, the alder, and on some other 
trees. When the constructors, who, though they 
are all of the same family, have different tastes, 
use notched leaves, they dispose the notches in 
such a way as to give the most curious appearance 
to their habitations. Their tent strongly resembles 




a miniature brown fi^fo, placed upright, and showing 
the profile of its long dorsal fin like a saw. 

If the Tineee are pulled out of their garment, 
they display the greatest distress, and set to 
work at once to make a new covering. They 
begin by passing the head between the two mem- 
branes of a leaf and lodge in its thickness. 
There they are under cover, and only have to 
cut out their coat. This must be made of two 





similar pieces united above and below them. The 
two pellicles that they have separated make the 
cloth. They know their trade ; they cut to right 
and left with their mandibles, 
which make an excellent pair 
of scissors, and join the two 
pieces as they lie one above 
the other with threads of 
silk. These garments always 
fit their owners, and are 
sometimes very elegant. An 
old Tinea near its transform- 
ation will never muffle itself 
up like a young caterpillar 
on its first campaign. How 
many old beaux, decking 
their mature age in a vernal 
scabbard, should be sent to the school of the 
Tinese! How many tailors, not to say dress- 
makers, would do well to be apprenticed for 
some time on my great Pear-Tree, and study 
there the true principles of their art ! 



Indeed the always tasteful toilet of the insects 




is admirably adapted to their habits, and ar- 
ranged for their individual peculiarities and 


makes a complete finish to them, and sets them 
off in a most curious way. Have our workmen 
any such artistic ideas ? The tinsel robes in 
which they muffle us, cut in one pattern, on 
pretext of fashion, have not in a general way 
the least relation to our peculiarities. 

Let us pursue the Tinea of the elm through 
her various transformations. Here she is escaping 
from her shell, no longer as a caterpillar, but 
provided with antennae, ready to take her flight 
as a perfect insect. Her wings glisten with gold 
and silver, and at their points small spots of 
velvety black set off to greater advantage the 
metallic lustre. Another variety which lives on 
the leaves of the nut-tree has its fore wings like 
a cock's tail, and banded transversely with 
alternate stripes of dead gold and burnished 
silver. Two little fine and delicate white tufts 
adorn their heads with splendid plumes. Had 
King Solomon in all his glory, when going to 
meet the Queen of Sheba, richer and more sump- 
tuous vestments than these ? 


Large animals are coarsely sketched by 
Nature, while she seems to have reserved the 
choicest gems of her rich cabinet for the smaller. 
Like those artists of the Middle Ages who delighted 
to carve numberless little figures between two 
blocks of stone and place them too high up to 
be seen, she reserves her special care for the 
minutest details of the great work. The bodies 
of most caterpillars present such a mixture of 
marvellously shaded colours, that the most skilful 
weaver could never reproduce such delicate com- 
binations. These shapeless worms crawling on 
the ground, and almost always hidden, have most 
splendid decorations. Some are marked with 
dots of divers hues, and a variety of spots ; 
others have stripes, diamonds, and bands of all 
sizes. Sometimes these markings give place to 
little tubercles projecting from the skin like so 
many precious stones. "Who has not seen sv arms 
of insects rise and sparkle in the sun, copper- 
plated, engraved, and enamelled in the most 
fantastic manner ? Could we ever be able to 

possess such a picture ? Besides, how should we 
get the silk which is our pride of adornment 
without robbing a humble larva of the soft 
envelope in which she has concealed herself? 

. Some varieties of Tinese are more ambitious 
than those that inhabit our old Pear-Tree, and are 
in the habit of making themselves more solid and 
durable cases. They live on walls, feeding on 
lichen, and gather small stones around them to 
build little cornucopia-shaped cells, large at one 
end and tapering towards the other. When ready 
to change into chrysalides, they firmly fix their 
house to the surface of the wall where they were 
born, there undergo their transformation, and issue 
at length, proudly displaying to the light of day 
two little bronzed and sparkling wings. 

But the life of caterpillars is not all rose- 
coloured, and all who have the will do not attain 
to the winged state. Some are left behind on 
the way, and might justly deplore their hard 
fate ! Not only do birds wage ceaseless war upon 
them, but they have also a formidable enemy, 




who glides into the thickest brakes, between the 
tree and its bark, among tufts of grass, wherever 
they hide, and prepares for them a shocking 
death, preceded by most bitter pangs. They 
dread his approach, perceive his coming, shudder 
at the sight of him, and yet cannot escape his 
terrible power. There he is, flitting above them 
like a vampire, grazing them with his gauze 
wings, for such he has, and searching for the 
spot where to alight on their soft defenceless 
body. The bark of our old Pear-Tree is 
covered with these deadly foes, and we can easily 
observe them there actively coursing in all di- 
rections. 

This formidable insect, the sound of whose 
wings is the death -knell of numbers of lepi- 
doptera, is shaped like a long thin fly, with small 
head and very slender antennae. It has four 
wings attached to the corselet, the two upper ones 
the longest. It has six tolerably long legs, 
especially the hinder ones. The body is lengthy, 
and only joined to the thorax by a very fine thread. 


It is known by the sufficiently crabbed name of 
Ichneumon. 

There are a vast number of species, and all 
carnivorous, but with notable differences in their 
customs. Some are black with ferruginous legs ; 
others have tawny feet and short tails ; some 
varieties are speckled ; others are found with 
black heads and yellow stomachs ; brown, tawny, 
variegated, and white ones are also met with. 
Their females seem to bear three stings of equal 
length, but really have only one, that in the 
middle, the two lateral appendages being only 
hollow blades, that when applied together form 
a sheath for the true sting. This sheath is 
black and hairy. The dart it covers is round, 
stiff pointed, hollow, and pierced near the ex- 
tremity. Its dark colour inclines to chestnut, 
and its surface is smooth. 

Now we know the actors in the drama, let 
us place them on the stage. 

And indeed as we look on the Pear-Tree we 
perceive, with its body adhering to one of the 




branches, a very common hairy caterpillar, with 
blue, brown, and white stripes on its back.* The 
head is of a greenish blue, specked with two 
small black spots. It is motionless, being gorged 
with leaves, and is, besides, on the point of 
spinning its cocoon. 




This is one of the usual victims of the yellow- 
footed Ichneumon. 

When she discovers it she descends on it, 
clings to the skin, and bores it with her auger. 
In vain does the caterpillar struggle ; however 
energetic is the resistance, it is thenceforward 
condemned, and nothing can save it from death. 
 

The wound just inflicted is filled with a number 
of eggs, and from them will issue as many 
voracious larvae, destined to live at its cost and 
feed upon its substance. At first it appears not 
to suspect its condition, and its habits seem 
unchanged. The young larvae that devour it are 
very careful not to attack the vital organs, as 
that would kill it outright and imperil their own 
existence. It was only man who, in conse- 
quence of his superior intelligence, ever thought 
of killing the goose with the golden eggs ! Our 
young Ichneumons, born at the foot of the ladder 
of existence, are too stupid to imagine such an 
idea. They act prudently, take care of their 
nurse, and only remove a fatty substance sufficient 
for their wants, of which she possesses abundance. 
Yet a time arrives when the caterpillar, though 
so long spared, must perish at last. The larvae 
having preyed upon it till nothing is left but 
skin, pierce it with their teeth, and issue forth 
to make their final change. Their victim may 
then be seen covered with little cocoons of 




yellow silk, moving tardily about, till at last 
he falls on the ground, and there his miserable 
existence terminates. 

Yet occasionally his enemies allow him time 
to turn into a chrysalis, but still the conclusion 







of the drama is always the same. Innumerable 
worms issue from the chrysalis, and covering it 
with their cocoons, a brood of flies issue from 
their lepidopterous cradle. 

As we have before said, the race of Ichneumons 
is very numerous, and we ought to be thankful 



for it, for without their presence all the fruits of 
the earth would be devoured before reaching our 
tables. Besides making war on caterpillars, they 
even sometimes lay their microscopic germs in the 
egg of a butterfly, and their tiny larvae find 
board and lodging there. They only exist by 
means of destruction, and rise alive from the 
bosom of decomposition. 



CHAPTER VII. 

NOTES OF THE TRAVELS OF A CENTIPEDE. 

A GREAT cloud, fully 'charged with electricity 
was forming on the horizon. It rose by degrees, 
mingling its grey tones with the blue of the sky, 
and at last extended all over my meadow. The 
irregular shadow covered the grass, and only 
allowed one feeble sunbeam to pass, and that 
struck upon a ridge of bark on the surface of the 
old Pear-Tree. 

Something was moving on this spot, which 
was now in the full light. There might be seeD 
a black head, round and very flat, with two bent 
antennae issuing from it. The motions of the 


creature were full of anxiety and indecision. It 
was coming up, going down again, was lost sight 
of for a moment, then reappeared, and seemed in 
great perplexity, until at last it issued completely 
from its hiding-place and crawled down the tree, 
dragging after it a kind of tawny ribbon, that 
slipped over the asperities of the bark like a 
trail of syrup. This tawny ribbon, on which, by 
closer inspection, I saw a number of articulations, 
was nothing else than the body of an animal 
borne on thirty little legs, trotting mincingly 
along, and each terminated by a hook. The 
last pair were turned upwards, terminating in 
bristles, so as to form a forked tail. 

Head, body, and tail, when they reached the 
ground, began by one consent to wriggle, forming 
a creature of no good report, the Scolopendra or 
Centipede.* It is generally found under stones, 
in dark places, at the base of walls, among the 
fibre of old stumps, wherever the air is 
tainted, dark, and heavy. The powerful loco- 



motive apparatus that is its characteristic is only 
acquired by age. Successive additions compose 
its being, and each of its rings is equivalent to a 
mark of antiquity. 

Just as the Scolopendra made its appearance 
on the meadow, a swarm of little insects, hardly 
to be seen by very good eyes, but whose curious 
structure I could easily distinguish, thanks to 
the second sight that I enjoyed, were jumping 
among the grass from stalk to stalk, with 
wonderful agility. They might have been taken 
for a band of squirrels, lost in a grassy forest, 
making it alive with their incessant activity. 
They had on their backs a sort of mane, bore two 
antennae bent forwards, and sprang from one 
place to another by means of a long elastic tail 
that they pressed upon the ground at the moment 
of making their spring. They were the Poduras 
(Skip tails), an especially cosmopolitan race, who 
plant their colonies in the fields, and even on the 
surface of stagnant water, and also on the snow 
in the coldest regions of the globe. 



They described around me numberless ca- 
pricious circuits, when one of them falling to the 
ground, was all at once enveloped in a tawny 
cloud, and disappeared under the grass. Another 
and another suffered the same fate without their 
absence being remarked by their comrades. The 
Scolopendra was in ambush, and satiating itself 
with its favourite food. 

"Decidedly," thought I, "here is a tribute 
quickly levied. If a man did as much, his 
tongue would not be long enough to boast of his 
exploits, and he would need to employ those of 
others to trumpet his fame." 

The Scolopendra thought otherwise. She left 
her post of observation, climbing carelessly towards 
a slope, stopped behind a pebble, resumed her 
march, and arrived at a round hole dug in the 
sand, not far from the lines of circumvallation 
that had been traced by the mole-cricket. She 
put her head into the hole, and quickly taking it 
out again hastened to hide under a dry leaf 

Her alarm was not without cause. A dull 



sound was heard from the bottom of the sub- 
terranean habitation that she had discovered, like 
the distant murmuring of a fountain, giving notice 
to all comers that if this retreat contained a 
treasure, there was also a dragon to guard it. 

The noise increased, and with it in proportion 
grew my curiosity. Imagination is excited by the 
approach of the unknown, under the continual 
expectation of discovering a novelty. 

In much excitement I said to myself, " What 
am I going to see ? Nature is so rich, and my 
knowledge is still so poor." 

Nevertheless I rejoiced in my agitation, as it 
promised me new discoveries. Nothing proves 
ou>f imperfection so much as this necessity 6f 
escaping from oneself, and mingling with the 
life of others. The mind, like the body, requires 
food. It is only nourished by successive assimi- 
lations, starves when solitary, and dies of inani- 
tion at the end of too strict a fast. 

Thank Heaven that was not my case. I was 
a fresh enough guest in my stall in Nature's 






theatre, and patiently awaited the rising of the 
curtain. 

I had not long to wait. A dark object 
suddenly appeared at the opening of the cave, 
storming and buzzing in a most menacing fashion, 




as if to complain of the mischief-maker that had 
dared to cross the threshold. Then I saw, not a 
dragon, but a great fly of the bee family. It 
passed without the smallest concern over the 
web of a little spider, which contented itself 
with humbly pulling a string on its passage. 



The Scolopendra was invisible, and not even 
the tips of her antennae could be seen. 

When the fly had made some circles in the 
air, she returned to her nest, brushed her wings 
with delight, threw out a few grains of sand 
that had stuck between the ruddy bristles that 
covered her body, and re-entered 'the house. She 
went some distance along a narrow tubular gallery 
with very smooth walls, and came to a sort of 
lump made of earth glued together, separate from 
the ground, pierced full of holes, and containing 
a quantity of little chambers varnished inside 
and very comfortable. In each of these chambers, 
softly lying on a honey cake, was a whitish 
worm, destined likewise to have wings and think 
of perpetuating its species at a future day. 
Sometimes another destiny, and not so happy, is 
in store for them, since enemies in great num- 
bers prowl around this well-concealed cell. Let 
one ant make the discovery and a hundred others 
follow in a row, attack the poor guardian bee, 
and kill the larvae in the cradle. Their existence 



is in imminent danger even before they issue from 
the egg. A stranger fly, taking advantage of any 
short absence of the brooding mother, slips into 
the newly vacated place, leaves there her own 
germ, and hastily escapes. The bee has seen 
nothing, and lives deceived, without a suspicion 
that she is harbouring a murderer, and that its 
savage larva will soon be sole mistress of this 
spacious abode made with so much labour. 

Some of the congeners of our bee, less rustic 
in their habits, prefer the neighbourhood of man. 
They flit around his houses, and selecting a 
wrought stone decide on hanging their habitation 
there. And how shall they accomplish this design ? 
They know not how to spin a cocoon like the 
caterpillar, or make a web of silk like the spider. 
It matters not ; they will not fail for want of 
materials, for their resolution is great. The rest 
they make will be of a kind of mortar, that as 
it hardens will become as firm as granite. They 
will go to the quarry, there select a grain of sand, 
cover it with a viscous liquid, lay it close to 





another grain, make a little lump of them, take 
this up in their mouths, knead it, put it in its 
place, and gradually build their nest. 




This nest, constructed with so much labour, is 
divided into several compartments, all of the same 
size, and each enclosing an egg, as well as the 



paste required by the grub that is to be hatched 
there. 

The erection of such a building, wisely 
adapted to the needs of the inhabitants, does 
not fail to present some difficulty. Everybody 
is not a born mason ; so some unscrupulous bees 
sometimes endeavour to seize the property of 
their neighbours. Without the slightest remorse 
they enter a half-made cell, look it over, examine 
it, give a stroke of the trowel, and prepare to 
take possession of it. Then comes the real 
owner laden with mortar, white with lime, in 
working dress. They look at one another, and 
doubtless remonstrances are exchanged ; then the 
dispute waxes warmer, the two bees hurl defiance 
at one another, rush out, and prepare to settle 
their dispute by force of arms. 

What description can do justice to the ani- 
mated scene that ensues upon these first hos- 
tilities ? Let us for a moment transport ourselves 
from the old Pear-Tree to a vast arena where the 
soil has been carefully levelled, and around which 



are raised a quantity of seats, surmounted by 
banners, shields, and pamans. Two knights in 
full armour, with visors closed, lance in rest, 
and shield on arm, mounted on powerful horses, 
barbed likewise with iron, are ready to rush on 
each other. The word is given, and they dart 
forward enveloped in a cloud of dust. 




A long shudder passes through the crowd. 
Many hearts beat, impatient to take flight, and 
go and burn themselves at this devouring flame 
that attracts and maddens the masses. Success ! 
Some souls of worth, more noble, more generous, 
reserve their sympathy for the vanquished. Such 
are scarce, very scarce, as scarce as charity, self- 
denial, and devotion. 


The two foemen have broken their lances, but 
their swords remain. Steel meets with steel ; 
the horses rear ; they seize each other round the 
body, and the issue of the combat appears for 
a moment doubtful. One of the combatants at 
last rises in his saddle, gathers up his strength, 
stretches his muscles, draws a deep breath, and 




with a sudden movement, quick and vigorous, 
throws the enemy on the ground amid the loud 
applause of the multitude. 

Is this a tournament I have described, or a 
duel between two flies \ At all events, our bees 
do just the same as the warriors of ancient time 



fly against each other head to head, swerve aside 
from each other, meet again, clash terribly to- 
gether, and fall stunned by the shock. Like the 
knights, if the first onset does not decide the 
victory they clutch each other in fury, and even 
strike with their dagger, namely, with their sting, 
like them. 

But we will not continue this humiliating 
parallel. And what would it prove that every 
one does not know already? When on the plain 
the shepherd appears larger than his sheep, the 
oak surpasses the shepherd, the tower of the 
village church exceeds the oak. In proportion 
to the elevation above the valley all these 
gradations gradually disappear, the details merge 
in the whole ; the landscape is lost in shade, 
there are no more giants, and all is small to- 
gether. 

This is the reason why the Grecian muse, in 
her choice of a dwelling-place, would not climb 
too high, but stopped upon Parnassus. 



CHAPTER VIII. 



SOLITARY BEES. 



THE sky was clear again, the skiptails jumping 
in the grass ; all was calm and peaceable in the 

meadow, and yet the 
Scolopendra did not 
appear again. Why 
did she not re-enter the 
hall of bark after such 
an exciting expedi- 
tion ? Probably she 
would have gladly 
done so, but circum- 
stances beyond her 
coutiol made it impossible for her to return. 



She had been ejected because her abode was to 
be demolished, and had been expelled by superior 
force. 

The inhabitants of a great city who are used 
to live among a crowd, and to shift their house- 
hold gods from one place to another, can never 
believe what is the pain of quitting an old 
nest ennobled by memory, and hallowed by custom. 
There is the sense of leaving behind a whole 
phase of existence on the removal. The old 
home unites the past and present, henceforth to 
be divided by an impassable barrier. Did the 
Scolopendra feel all the bitterness of this flitting ? 
I could not affirm this, but I am sure I 
experienced it for her. I love old houses, full 
of antique furniture, and showing everywhere the 
traces of the departed. One is not alon6 amid 
those grand walls that have been the cradle and 
the tomb of a whole race. A tutelary genius, 
the spirit of the family, watches in their shades, 
low murmuring in the ear of the living a thou- 
sand simple and touching words such as do them 





good. This mysterious charm does not attach to 
new mansions ; they remain dumb, and poetry 
finds no echoes there. These are but hackneyed 
hostels, good for nothing but transacting business. 

We said that the Scolopendra had removed 
that the house might be pulled down. This is 
what had happened to it, at least as I conjecture, 
for I studied it for a few minutes, and my eyes 
had only been directed thither at the moment of 
her departure. 

She had been established, as we know, under 
a fold of bark on the surface of the old Pear-Tree. 
Her retreat lay just below a great dry branch, which, 
having been broken by a storm, hung down the 
tree held by a few fibres. A smooth shining- 
bodied fly, of bluish black, with four wings of 
dark violet, namely the carpenter bee, had ob- 
served this dead branch and set to work on it. 
Our bee had excellent carpenter's tools that is to 
say, two great teeth formed of solid bits of shell 
bent into augers, convex above, and ending in a 
fine but strong point. She had then bored a 



hole towards the centre of the branch, but in an 
oblique direction. As she proceeded with her 
excavation she cast forth a quantity of sawdust, 
which gathered in a heap on the ground. A great 
expense of power, energy, and patience was re- 




quired to bring such an enterprise to a successful 
issue ; but where is the bee in whom these qua- 
lities are lacking? They know what they want, 
which is a rare quality, and only desire what 
they can perform, and that is a still rarer one. 



After several weeks of labour the wood-borer 
had pierced a cavity of nearly twelve inches in 
depth, very smooth, perfectly emptied, and very 
regular. Then, without taking any time for repose, 
she went afield to gather honey, and had filled 
with it the whole of the lower part of the cavity 
just spoken of, so as to make a mass there of 
about an inch in height. When this was done 
she laid an egg upon the paste in the fashion 
of the mason bee. 

The Scolopendra had been scared by the 
unusual noises ringing around her during these 
many goings to and fro, and had judged it best 
to leave her own hut since it was in such a 
dangerous neighbourhood. 

The, bee took no more notice, being absorbed 
in her more important cares. Of course she had 
not made a hole twelve inches long to put only 
one egg into it. She went out again, picked up 
a little wood -dust, tempering it with a sort of 
glue, brought it, and attached it to the walls 
of the hole above the provision of honey. On 



the inner rim of this first circular layer of saw- 
dust she placed a second ring concentric with 
the first, then a third of smaller diameter. Soon 
there was only a little hole left that she could 
easily fill. Then the egg was enclosed in a real 
chamber, firmly sealed up on all sides, and its 
ceiling became the floor of a new cell, also con- 
taining honey. Thus she constructed twelve 
chambers intended as habitations for as many 
grubs, all having near them the amount of sub- 
sistence necessary for their wants until the time 
of their charge. 

What would our collectors of statistics, gentle- 
men who are such hands at putting figures to- 
gether, say if they were asked to estimate within 
a few crumbs what an individual of their species 
would eat before arriving at his majority ? Ah, 
how the wood-borer would laugh at their answer ! 
Or at least we will do so as her proxies. 

Apropos to this, may I be allowed to recall 
an amusing anecdote told by M. Eeaumur in one 
of his Memoirs? 





In the first days of the month of July 1736 
an auditor of the Accountant-general's office, lord 
of a village near Andelys, on the Seine, was 




walking backwards and forwards in his drawing- 
room. When I say he was promenading, I must 
avow that it is only a supposition on my part, for 



M. Reaumur has not preserved these details. 
Perhaps he was seated in his arm-chair delicately 
wrapped in a small-patterned flowered dressing- 
gown, a very suitable dress for an auditor ; but 
this point has remained in doubt. A servant, 
prudently only opening the door a little way, an- 
nounced that a gardener from Andelys demanded 
an audience. 

He was introduced, a fine-looking man of 
five feet eleven inches, bony, muscular, fair, of 
a dazed look, with great brown eyes on a level 
with his cheeks. He took off his cap, bowed 
with a scrape of the foot, coughed, blushed, and 
remained quiet. 

" Well," said his master, " what is the news ? " 

" Alas, sir," said the gardener, " a misfortune 
has happened ! There is a wizard in the village, 
and your whole estate is ruined and undone. 
Not a workman will strike a pick into the ground 
there any more. Please to look." 

With these words he held out a little box 
to his master, who, after such an amazing prelude, 



opened it with much curiosity. In it were some 
small cases made of rose leaves rolled up. These 
perfectly closed cases seemed to have been made 
with the utmost care, and were of remarkable 
beauty. The auditor looked carefully at these 
curious objects, touched them, felt them all over, 
and was astonished at their marvellous complete- 
ness and finish. 

The gardener continued : " They were found 
in one of the borders in front of the house. They 
were not hid there for nothing, and he who buried 
them knew very well what he was about." 

" Indeed it is strange ; but you know, John, 
no one believes in wizards." 

John Paul shook his head, made a most 
intricate grin expressive of both respect and of 
doubt, turned and twisted his cap in embarrass- 
ment, and then bashfully replied : 

" As your worship pleases ; but the cunning 
man to whom I showed these things could not 
say any good of them. 1 am sure I should come 
to harm if I went on working on the place." 


The auditor rose, rang, dressed himself, and 
went to a surgeon who was a friend of his, followed 
by the villager. He did not believe that there 
was anything alarming in the story told him, 
but he wished to have the opinion of a skilful 
practitioner. Contrary to his expectations, the ex- 
pedient was unsuccessful. Though the surgeon 
was very skilful in his own business, he could 
give none of the desired information. 

What was to be done ? They went to the 
Abbe Nollet, who was well known for his accurate 
study of natural history. 

The gardener, trembling all over, presented 
the famous rolls to him, more confident than 
ever that they had a savour of brimstone. Accord- 
ing to him, there could not be a doubt. Besides 
that, he thought no common man could do such 
a piece of work ; he could not think why trouble, 
such trouble, could have been taken, or such a 
performance buried a spade deep. A wizard 
alone could have put these accursed cases in 
such a place to effect some charm. 



The Abbe Nollet only answered this fair rea- 
soning by a smile, for he had very good reasons 
for not believing it. He went to a drawer, and 


took from it other sheaths of leaves cleverly 
worked by the scarabseus beetles, and showed 
them to the rustic, telling him that they were 
made by insects, and that those which had caused 
him so much anxiety had no other origin. 

John Paul was shaken, but not convinced. 
If he had had the instinct of the Ichneumon, he 
would have displayed some of it in conversation 
with, this learned man, but he had only a little 
human sense, and what more is wanted for 
cherishing an illusion? .Nothing is so pleasing 
as an error, especially when it issues in smart 
attire from the secret recesses of the fancy. 

M. Nollet meanwhile had set to work to undo 
one of the rolls that they had brought him, an 
attempt his visitors had ' never dared to make, 
and he took from it a fat larva, that writhed 
with rage at this unexpected violation of its 
domicile. 



The gardener cried out with astonishment when 
he saw this shapeless grub. He threw up his 
arms, opened his mouth, and laughed noisily. 

"I see what it is," said he, " and the cunning 
man is nicely wrong! It was my own opinion 
that he was a poor ignorant creature. I am going 
to put these under his nose, and there will be 
a fine noise about it in the village." 

-"But," said the Abbe quietly, "I thought you 
were of the same opinion as he was." 

" I oh yes ! that is to say, no ; I thought that 
there was something more behind it, that is all." 

How often is this scene repeated from Paris 
to China? 

The pretty rolls that then caused such a dis- 
turbance are the work of the Megachile cen- 
tuncularis. This is another kind, of bee, though 
by its terrible scientific name it would seem 
rather as if it were an antediluvian monster than 
a humble hymenopterous insect. 

The cutter of rose leaves, faithful to the habits 
of her tribe, bores the ground, and makes in it 



a gallery of ten or twelve inches deep. In this 
gallery are found these magic cases so ingeniously 
folded. Each of them is composed of six or 
seven sheaths of the same size laid end to end 
and enclosed in one cover. Taking this off, they 
are found placed in order. They make a kind 
of cylinder, and are arranged like thimbles put 
partly one into the other. The circular entrance 
of the first covers the bottom of the second, 
which serves for the base of the third, and so 
on. Each of these little thimbles is a cell in- 
tended as a refuge for a grub, which undergoes 
two changes before becoming a bee. These cells 
contain honey, and are made so as to prevent the 
loss of one drop of this precious nourishment. 
Yet the leaves that compose them are not glued, 
but only placed close together. What are the 
modes of operation of the Megachile centuncu- 
laris (leaf-cutter bee) to obtain such a result ? 
We will try to rob her of the secret. 

Here she is pausing over a rose-tree all 
covered with beautiful scented flowers. This is 



her favourite tree, but not her exclusive choice, 
a& in case of need she will resort to another. 

The first thing is to take up a suitable posi- 
tion. She places herself on the outer edge of 
a leaf, so that she can hold the cut part between 
her legs and begin at the foot-stalk. Then 
setting to work she > cuts out a great round piece 
with her mandibles, working them as quickly as 
a pair of scissors. Her position is convenient 
for the purpose, but also presents some difficulties. 
The bee is perched on the bit she is cutting, and 
if care be not taken her weight will tear it off. 
To prevent any accident of this sort she begins 
to fly before the cut is finished, and for some 
time supports herself in the air without leaning 
on the material. 

When this work is done, she carries off the 
piece of leaf, holding it perpendicularly, .and carries 
it to line the subterranean gallery that she has 
hollowed out. Ten or twelve pieces of this kind 
are required to make a cell, all not being of the 
same thickness. The interior surface of each cell 


is composed of three of these pieces, of the same 
size, narrow at one end, larger at the other. The 
jagged margin of the leaves is always placed 
outside, while the smooth edge of the cut goes 
inwards. 

The Megachile centuncularis, like most insects, 
now takes pains to strengthen the exterior of 
the cell. For this purpose she surrounds it with 
three or four oval pieces, and then with other bits 
smaller in proportion. Besides, she takes good 
care not to let joint lie over joint. Like a good 
workman, she places the middle of each fragment 
of leaf upon the cut part of that just used 
before, so as to cover the joins. Also she folds 
back the end so as to give it a convex form. 
When the cell is complete she fills it with honey 
and pollen, puts an egg in it, and covers it with 
three pieces so perfectly circular that they might 
be supposed to have been drawn with compasses. 
Then she fills the whole gallery with similar 
chambers, the round end of one filling the open 
end of the next. If some unforeseen accident 




forces her to quit her work for a time, she is in 
haste to return, and hardly ever quits it before 
the whole is completed. Her perseverance to this 
end is remarkable. 

It is said that St. Francis Xavier, walking 
one day in the garden, saw a great winged insect 
walking there with head bent down, and the fore 
legs stretched out and elevated in the attitude 
of prayer. He was much astonished at this cir- 
cumstance, but much more so at hearing the 
humble creature chant ; a beautiful canticle after 
the custom of that period 'with great solemnity. 
What would he have said if he had studied the 
ways of our leaf- cutter of the rose ? It is true 
that she has no voice, but nature has given 
her a genius for mathematics a singular power 
of tracing ovals and circles, without perfect draw- 
ing instruments and a well- based knowledge 
of the laws of elasticity. Miracles are all around 
us ; in order to see them it is only necessary to 
open our eyes, but that, it appears, is the chief 
difficulty. 



CHAPTER IX. 



DIGGERS. 

MY old Pear-Tree, with its ever-blessed greeii 
shade, had a rich client with beautiful black eyes, 
that came sometimes to beg a little shade of him 
at those hours when the grass falters and bends 
under the burning rays of the sun. She walked with 
measured steps, a grave and majestic air, gathered 
a few flowers as she went, and lay down at the 
foot of the tree. Then, with head raised and body 
comfortably settled, she fixed her eyes on the 
horizon, mechanically moving her lips. Her march 
was followed by a little girl, as fresh as a rose, 
making a curious piece of knitting, never ended, 

 



but always renewed. This illustrious client lived 
at the farm, and was well known on the meadow, 
being greeted with the most discordant cries by a 
flock of jays every morning on her appearance. 
She lived there happy and thoughtless of the 




morrow, and was the delight 1 of her hosts. She was 
supposed to have been originally of the county of 
Durham, in England; but there was no actual 
proof of this. However that might be, her name 



was Betsy, and she belonged, as I have omitted to 
mention, to the bovine race. The stout farmer 
thought a great deal of her, and never spoke of 
the foreigner but in highest terms of the greatest 
praise. She replied to his compliments by a 
prolonged lowing, gave a flick of her tail to her 
sides, and returned to her peaceful meal, burying 
her nostrils deep in the grass. 

She had an enemy, though she had never done 
any harm to any one the Hypoderma bovis, who 
harassed her unceasingly with unrivalled obstinacy. 
This enemy was not to be dreaded for his strength, 
but that only made him the more dangerous. In- 
deed, more of life is spent in repelling trifling 
aggressions, annoyances constantly renewed, than in 
serious but honourable contests. Sometimes an oak 
scarred by lightning forms fresh bark, its torn 
leaves are renewed, and the branches half broken 
off by the electric fluid may recover again. But 
if attacked by grubs, its strength oozes out at a 
thousand punctures, and it is immediately dried up. 

Externally, Betsy's enemy was like a common 



fly, but very fat. Some writers have alleged him 
to be descended from the illustrious fly on the 
coach-wheel, described by La Fontaine, but we 
can hardly believe them, for her heirs had left the 
country for a town residence. The people who 
abhor Latin names, and justly so, do not know 
its title of Hypoderma bovis, and simply call it 
breeze-fly. 

The insect has great compound eyes, streaked 
with green and red, pointed antennae, strong wings, 
adorned with very conspicuous veinings. Its 
colours are dull and dark. Its carnivorous in- 
stincts would not have been suspected were 
not its secret inclinations revealed by the mouth, 
an organ of great expression in man as well as 
beast. This curiously constructed mouth ought 
to .be studied. It is composed of a kind of trunk, 
with a protecting sheath, and little white and very 
sharp teeth. 

With these sharp hooks it tormented peaceful 
Betsy. Some slight protuberances might already 
be remarked on the back of the pretty black cow, 



hardly visible among the hair, but very sensible 
to the touch. These round vesicles contained 
the larvae of the breeze-fly, foul, grub-shaped 
creatures, with two hooks at one end of their 
body, divided into a certain number of rings, and 
with no organ of locomotion. 

This greedy family, that feeds on living flesh 
and surrounds itself with corruption, is numerously 




represented. It contains the gad-fly, spoken of 
by Virgil in the " Georgics," the Gasterophyllus 
licemorrhoidalis that attaches itself to horses, with 
many other predatory flies. Humboldt and Bon- 
pland even discovered in South America a species 
of the same kind, that commits its ravages on 
man; the larva if disturbed buries itself deeply 
under the skin, and produces much inflammation, 



often fatal. It takes six months to perform all 
its metamorphoses, six long months, while the 
victim of the attack counts the hours, minutes, 
and even seconds. 

But we have wandered far from our subject, 
as we never intended, in talking of the monstrous 
client of the old Pear-Tree, to mention the Hypo- 
derma bovis, or any of its relations. A much fairer 
picture was ready to our pen, but it wanted a 
frame, and we did not know where to find one. 
The chief individual of this picture is still an 
insect, but an insect of such curious manners that 
it is hard to know how to exhibit it. The villagers, 
who readily follow Boileau's example, and call a cat 
a cat, describe it under the name of dung-beetle. 
This name implies much, and ought to show why 
the bearers of it are always found in meadows 
and high-roads. 

Entomologists place them in the tribe of Geo- 
trupes, OP Arenicolse. They may all be recognised 
by their hemispherical or oval body, by their wing- 
covers enveloping the abdomen, and especially by 



their mandibles, more than half uncovered, very 
strong, and much bent. As these insects are es- 
sentially diggers, their legs are large, sharp-edged, 
and much notched at the exterior edge. Their 
mission is to free the surface of the ground from 
anything that might seem offensive to delicate 
persons. With the exception of some of them, 
whose chosen domicile is in mushrooms, they are 
generally found in what is by choice avoided. 
They excavate sloping or upright holes under these 
matters, and bury themselves in them as soon as 
they fancy they are in danger. There is not much 
temptation to pursue them thither, but they do 
not fancy so. Perhaps they have good reason for 
getting under cover. Certain collectors, very full 
of Latin, are capable of searching everywhere. 

The dung-beetles only leave their retreat in 
the evening, and after having dressed themselves. 
Seeing them pass brilliant and lustrous, no one 
would suspect the life they lead. Their flight is 
noisy and heavy just above the ground. If they 
feel a touch, they at once counterfeit death not 



in a vulgar manner like the spiders, curling up into 
a ball and remaining quiet, but in a remarkable 
way, like true artists. Instead of bending back 
their legs and antennae to the body, like most 
insects, they, on the contrary, extend them, and 
hold them as stiff as they would be in a perfectly 
dried beetle. The imitation is so perfect that it 
deceives their enemies ; among others, the crows, 
who turn them over and over, and think them 
unworthy of a peck. The butcher bird, it seems, 
is not so easily deceived, and will not be so taken 
in. Dead or alive, he sticks all he meets upon 
the spines of the sloe, and devours them by degrees 
as his appetite requires them. 

The larvae of the dung-beetle live in the same 
place as their parents, at the bottom of a round 
hole of about fifteen inches deep, and full of food. 
They have a good deal of similarity to the grub 
of the cockchafer, and are whitish for a small 
portion of their front wings, and of a bluish or 
slaty grey on the rest of their body. 

After this preliminary description we come to 


the details of the picture, which are now more 
easy to describe. 

One day walking on the quay of Santa Lucia, 
at Naples, whence there is a view of Vesuvius, 
the blue waves of the Mediterranean, Castellamare, 
and Sorrento, I took it into my head to hire a 
boat and be transported to Capri, that picturesque 
island where Tiberius lived, whose rocky white 
profile had often excited my attention. Some 
sailors of bronzed hue, with red caps and striped 
shirts, took me there in a few hours, and put me 
on shore on a sandy beach, almost deserted. I 
mounted some steps cut out of the rock, a good 
deal broken, and invaded by vegetation in abun- 
dance, and came to the village, to the inn with 
the sign of 'the palm-tree, and left my little 
valise there. 

In great heat one has not much appetite, but 
dinner is a necessity, if only to prevent losing 
the habit. So I took a light repast under an ar- 
bour of vines, at the foot of some massive columns, 
between which were stretched out the flexible 



branches of figs. A tiger would have been tamed 
there, I am convinced, especially after moistening 
his lips with that beautiful golden wine with such 
a delicate bouquet that is made on the island. My 
collation finished, I left the inn on a voyage of 
discovery. 

The streets of Capri are narrow, considerably 
irregular, and bordered by houses with dome- 
shaped roofs, giving the place an Eastern appear- 
ance. I soon came to a tolerably large open 
space, and at the end was an arched doorway, 
leading to the country. Under this arch, at a 
small distance from the ground, was the aperture 
of a window, with iron bars. An old woman 
leant her elbows against it, conversing with a 
person of ragged beard and pale face, who could 
be seen behind the grating. 

This dark corner, where yet a man's friends 
could speak to him, was the public prison. 

When I came to this spot, I found two roads 
before me equally beautiful. The broadest on 
the right led to Anna Capri, a sort of eagle's 

 

nest on a high mountain; the other and less 
frequented road passed along the outside of the 
village, lined by hedges of prickly pear, aloes 
and vines winding among the rocks, and insen- 
sibly descending to the sea. 

I chose the latter for the sake of solitude, 
delaying at each step, now to watch a snake es- 
caping through the grass, now a butterfly rising 
in the air, now to glance at the beautiful country 
around me. Oh, how pleasant was the time I thus 
spent, and how often have I regretted it! 

At last I sat down on the root of a tree to 
dream at my ease, and give myself over to my 
feeling. Then I saw a living creature, about as 
large as a cockchafer, moving over the sand, 
an insect belonging to the tribe of dung-beetles, 
family Ateuchitse. She had found what she 
wanted, and was at work taking away some bits 
of it. Doubtless it was an unpleasant operation, 
but we will not be too sure on this point ; 
maternal love ennobles all with which it comes 
in contact. 



Our dung-beetle by her struggles contrived 
to make a little ball, and kneaded it carefully, 
mixing it with gravel. Then she dragged it to 
a small distance, turned her back to it, and 
began to roll it quickly over the ground, pushing 
it with her hind feet. The ball as it rolled 
gathered round it all the grains of sand that 
clung to its surface, and at last became of some 
size. All at once, when both its conductor and 
I least expected it, it rolled into a hole caused 
by the tread of a horse. 

The dung-beetle turned round sharply, waved 
her antennae, and rose up on her fore feet in 
the most comical way to get a better view of 
the neighbourhood around. Nothing was to be 
seen, north, south, east, or west. To her great 
astonishment, the ball had disappeared. Imme- 
diately she began to search in great haste, and 
at last discovered the object of her search in the 
situation we have mentioned. On seeing it she 
became calmer, though she was not entirely re- 
lieved from anxiety. She marched round the hole 



where her property lay, went down into it, ex- 
amined it carefully, and then making a buttress 
of herself, set to work to get it out. I saw her 
slowly ascending, with unheard-of labour, the 
almost perpendicular slope that she had to sur- 
mount, walking backwards and bearing all the 
weight of a heavy burthen. She had nearly 
done her work, when an unlucky motion all at 
once destroyed her balance and that of the ball, 
so that it fell into the pit along with her. 

This was a terrible misadventure ; so our in- 
sect remained motionless for a second, doubtless 
to take breath, as a good workman, who has 
failed in an arduous task, prepares to exert 
double strength and vigour. 

The ancient Greek poets, in their description 
of the realms of Pluto, picture to us there fierce 
Sisyphus painfully raising a rock, obliged to let 
it fall, seizing it again, and recommencing his 
dismal effort, without better success. They must 
have taken the notion from our poor insect, so 
sadly exercised, during its brief existence. See, 




she resumes her labour, but not, like Sisyphus, 
with a feeling of degradation. She has confidence 
in herself and succeeds. Her ball, vigorously 
pushed, rises and rises, at last scales the precipice, 
and rolls along the road. 

The dung-beetle takes courage, seeing it dis- 
engaged, and displays more zeal than ever. She 
resumes her backward travel, and easily traverses 
a distance of several feet. At last the ball 
escapes from her again, and is swallowed up in 
a crack in the ground. 

What a poem! No enamel orb mounted on 
a sovereign's sceptre ever gave so much trouble 
to its owner. 

But, thanks to chance, this time the famous 
ball had fallen into a good place. The insect, 
as far as I could judge by its demeanour, re- 
joiced at the result obtained. She searched 
around, went into the crack, cast wild looks 
to right and left, and seemed better and better 
satisfied at the examination. The eggs, hidden 
in the middle of the sphere that it was so 




difficult to place properly, were in a suitable 
position. They only had to be buried, and that 
was soon done. When the work was concluded, 
our beetle opened her wings, closed them, and 
extended them again ; taking flight over the 
grass, and soon disappearing in it. 

This is what I saw on a fine summer day 
on the high-road leading from the village of 
Capri to the sea. 




CHAPTER X. 

STILT WALKERS. 

A POWERFUL locomotive, driven by steam and 
heated by fire, advances with rapidity over the rails, 
but thought is still more rapid, easily outstrips 
it, and arrives first at the journey's end. With- 
out, having left our meadow, we have visited the 
rocks of Capri; we are now in the neighbour- 
hood of Bordeaux, traversing the Landes, that 
ocean of stones, sand, emaciated plants, and brush- 
wood. A shepherd walks steadily over the plain, 
with long stilts on his feet, and having in his 
hand an enormous pole terminated by a circular 
plate. 



When near us he stops, puts his pole to the 
ground, bends his knees, and sits down on the 
plate, looking like a dwarf stuck up on a gigantic 
tripod. In a country where the soil is shifting 
and insecure, it is well to take every precaution 
against accidents ; but at least, if we make use 
of an ingenious idea, we should leave the credit 
to the inventor and not appropriate it. 

Now, while the inhabitant of the Landes, 
proudly watching his sheep, is depicted by cele- 
brated painters, and boasts of the originality and 
strangeness of his style, the individual to whom 
he owes all his glory, of whose idea he has taken 
advantage, the real inventor of stilts, lives ob- 
scure and unknown in the branches of my old 
Pear-Tree. 

The fact is incontestable; indeed, here is the 
poor hero coming in his own person, not to 
recount his griefs to us, for he wants no pity, 
but to enjoy a beautiful spring day. His body 
is oval, very small, and like that of a spider. 
Head, neck, and abdomen are confused together, 




and he carries his eyes, two in number, on his 
back, where they are separated by a somewhat 
sharp crest. Like the shepherd of the Landes, 
he walks on real poles; that is to say, on legs 
of a remarkable length and fantastically slim. 
He has eight, but does not use them all at 
once. He generally raises some of them while 
he walks, holding them horizontally, as if he 
wanted to point to some distant object with his 
toe. We have just compared him to a spider : 
let us fancy that the threads of the spider's web 
were suddenly endued with life and motion, 
dragging, in their hasty march, the insect placed 
in their centre, and we shall have a notion of 
the shepherd spider, the unknown inventor of 
stilts. 

He feeds on the smallest creatures, whom he 
seizes by force of agility, or else at unawares. 
He may be seen any day, when the weather is 
not too bad, wandering 'on the old Pear-Tree, 
seeking his fortune, feeling over the mosses with 
his long legs. If he finds anything worthy of 



his desires, he lowers his body from the height 
at which it usually hangs, and clings to the 
bark of the tree to devour his prey. 

During my sleep in the meadow, he per- 
mitted me to witness a most curious spectacle. 
Eesting on a stalk of Ladies'-bed-straw at a short 
distance from me, he was taking care of bis per- 
son with the exactness of a fop. .Firmly fixed 
on his great stilts, he passed them one by one 
through his mouth, in order to make them bright 
and lustrous. 

The male shepherd-spiders engage in furious 
combats, and often leave some of their legs on 
the field of battle. Though these limbs are easily 
detached, they appear to be endowed with remarkable 
vitality, and continue in motion a long time after 
they are severed. This persistence in movement 
after amputation should not surprise us ; it is not 
peculiar to the shepherd-spider, but is also the 
case with most insects. Life, which in the organi- 
zation of man is centralized in force, is localized 
more and more in proportion as beings descend 



the scale. Thus in insects the blood is not en- 
closed in a system of special vessels ; they have 
neither veins nor arteries, and the nourishing fluid 
is distributed in the interstices that there are 
between the various organs. This uncertain and 
incomplete circulation is conducted by means of 
a simple canal situated at the centre of the body 
above the digestive tube. 

The system of nerves is not composed, as in 
man, of a cerebro-spinal axis, comprehending the 
larger and smaller brain and spinal marrow; but 
their nerves are distributed in little centres called 
ganglions, apart from each other. Thus it may 
be perceived, that if one of these centres be de- 
stroyed, the others can act for some time indepen- 
dently. There are animals also of a still more 
rudimentary structure, as, for instance, the polyps, in 
which the various faculties of relative life are not 
peculiar to any special organ ; but all their parts 
possess isolated sensation and power of motion. 

The more Nature is studied, the greater is the 
admiration of her inexhaustible fruitfulness. We 



have hardly lost sight of the shepherd-spider 
flying over the meadow on his long legs, before 
here comes another stilt walker the Daddy-long- 
legs or Tailor - crane - fly, whose aspect is more 
strange than a dream could devise. It has a 
narrow and slender body very much resembling 
that of his cousin, though much larger. His mouth 
is split from front to rear, and composed of two 
lips, not placed one above the other, but side by 
side, one on the outside, the other on the inside. 
This mouth is situated at the extremity of a short 
trunk, which terminates an already lengthy head, 
adorned also with two gills. 

The colours of our tipula are not brilliant, 
being a whitish grey, and the corselet rising into 
a most inelegant humpback. True, he has two 
superb eyes, and that is saying something for him. 
Were beauty reduced to regular and harmonious 
outlines, it would be cold and statue-like, but 
fine eyes give it radiance and light it up. The 
eye of the tipula consists of a network of a 
changeable green; a careful observer would even 



discover a little purple in it. The wings are 
transparent, somewhat narrow, and generally held 
far apart. The antennae are not remarkable except 
for four or five great hairs of whose functions we 
are quite ignorant. 




I Whence com.es this new semi-grotesque person- 
age, whom we must add to the already numerous 
gallery of the guests of the old Pear-Tree ? Where 
is she going, perched on her great legs, running 
like the ostrich, and fanning her wings to quicken 


her speed ? See, she stops at the foot of a cavern 
that time has excavated in the trunk of the tree. 
At the bottom of this dark and gaping cavern 
is a humid soil formed of rotting vegetable matter. 
The tipula goes in and takes up a most curious 
attitude ; raises her head, stands as high as possible 
on her stilts, and at last places her body in a 
perpendicular attitude. The two hind legs are now 
the only ones that touch the ground. She looks 
as if going to dance a minuet with some invisible 
being in the hollow of the Pear-Tree. 

Yet there is no one, and the poor thing would 
certainly be far from supposing the solemn cour- 
tesies of this dance manifestations of pleasure. 
The head is full of other matters than amusement, 
and, like the dung-beetle of Capri, her prime 
thought is of duty. She brings to the ground 
her long tail composed of four scaly pieces, making 
two pairs of pincers of different lengths, and digs 
it in with great vigour. Then the two pairs of 
pincers open and allow two or three eggs to 
escape, which remain in the hole bored by the 





tipula. These eggs are perfectly black, and look 
like little polished grains of gunpowder. They 







are oblong, and curved into a crescent shape. Each 
female lays hundreds ; and so proceeds sowing her 
progeny and piercing the earth at each step. 




When the eggs are laid, each soon becomes 
full of grubs of a very dirty white, cylindrical 
in form, except that the two ends are smaller 
than the middle of the body. The head is scaly, 
and not at all large. The insect does not often 
display more than a portion of it, and when 
taken in the hand retracts its front part within 
the 'first ring. The tortoise evidently has play- 
mates even among the smallest species. 

The larvae of the crane fly cause great ravages 
in grass land by moving the earth round the 
roots of the plants, Which are thereby disturbed, 
lifted up, and exposed to be dried by the sun. 
Indeed they sometimes cut the .fibres in making 
their galleries. The manner in which they receive 
their supply of oxygen is worthy of notice. They 
have a complete respiratory apparatus at the end 
of their body, composed of a bunch of radiating 
filaments and performing the office of true lungs. 

It is not necessary to say that these rudimen- 
tary creatures do not immediately exchange the 
obscure life that they pass in their caves for that 



of a free winged fly flitting over the grass and 
newly -blown flowers. In order to arrive at that 
condition, our grubs, like caterpillars, dispense with 
their skin, and live for some time under the form 
of nymphse rigidly swaddled up. They are then 
of a grey colour. Their future wings and antennae 
are hidden under the abdomen, as well as the 
legs, all in order and close together. These legs, 
destined to be so greatly developed in future, are 
folded and doubled so as to take up the least 
room possible. 

This is an example of the different means 
employed by nature to accomplish the same end. 
The nympha of the crane fly at the time of its 
transformation must by degrees raise itself to the 
surface of the ground and disengage its front 
part. How is this to be accomplished, as the 
legs are not only bent down, but enclosed in a 
solid covering ? 

The difficulty is resolved in the most remark- 
able manner. The insect's body, though smooth 
in the grub, in the nympha bristles with bumps 


and spines. There are some on all the rings, but 
more on those near the tail. These spines slope 
downwards ; some are single, some forked. And 
it is by their means that the creature, feeling 
ready for its entrance into another world, drags 
itself with great effort towards the light. 




Crane flies, like all insects which multiply with 
rapidity, and whose females lay great numbers 
of eggs, are greedily pursued and destroyed in 
great quantities by birds, our most valuable assist- 



ants, without whom we should have much trouble 
in evading the ravages of insects. Some inter- 
esting facts will prove this. 

A naturalist one day took a butterfly that 
comes from a hairy caterpillar, and obtained from 
it a brood of three hundred and fifty eggs, which 
all hatched. He kept eighty eggs and brought 
up the caterpillars. All performed their changes 
and became perfect insects, except five which died 
in the act of changing their skin. Among all 
these butterflies there were fifteen females coming 
from the eighty eggs ; the brood of three hundred 
and fifty wou]d then in proportion have furnished 
sixty-five females. Supposing that they had been 
as fruitful as their mother, we come in the third 
generation to a sum of twenty-two thousand seven 
hundred and fifty caterpillars, among whom there 
would have been at least four thousand two hun- 
dred and sixty-five females, and they would have 
produced in their turn one million four hundred 
and ninety-two thousand seven hundred and fifty 
grubs. These numbers are sufficiently oppressive ; 




but certainly viviparous flies will show us much 
larger ones. They produce as many as twenty-two 
thousand at a single birth. For these, supposing 
the number of females equal to that of males, we 
shall have at the third step not a miserable million 
of individuals, but a splendid posterity of two 
thousand decillions of beings, all living, flying, and 
eating at the universal board. 

At the end of a generation they would have 
eaten us down to the bare boards, and there would 
be no place left for us at the feast. 



CHAPTER XL 

FKOM THE MEADOW TO THE WILDERNESS. 

THE slope that rises a tew steps from the great 
Pear-Tree, half in sun, half in shade, is as popu- 
lous as a hive of bees. A builder is at work 
there at this moment, and is building a novel sort 
of mansion there. If he was of our race, there 
would be little about him in which to interest 
ourselves. "We should most likely see him imi- 
tating some Greek temple, endeavouring to renew 
Roman art, inspired with Gothic taste, or sensibly 
copying some edifice of the Renaissance. By com- 
mon consent, architecture is a dead language at 
present, only to be studied in ancient authors. By 



the employment of iron, so wonderfully worked at 
the present day in turn with zinc and glass, some 
rash adventurers have endeavoured to raise edifices 
full of elegance and lightness, but in a style 
unknown to Vitruvius ; but it seems as if their 
deeds had been scandalous, and that such efforts 
ought not to be encouraged. 

The builder that we are going to discuss is a 
simple insect, with only his instinct to guide him, 
and yet indulging at times in original efforts. It 
is a grey larva, with a body of oval shape, covered 
with little tubercles. It can only walk back- 
wards, and bears in front of his head a pair of 
jagged pincers, sharp, and hollow within. These 
pincers supply the place of mouth, proboscis, and 
offensive weapons. There are several tools, but he 
wants them all ; for he is at once workman, 
mechanic, and soldier. He has just set to work, 
and we can study his smallest movements at 
leisure. 

Like a prudent insect, he begins by examining 
the surface of the ground, in order to make choice 





of a suitable position. After some hesitation he 
fixes on a somewhat sandy flat, a few inches across, 
about half-way up the slope. He levels it a little, 
clears out the rubbish, then digging his tail into 
the ground, he traces a perfect circle by using the 
point of one of his pincers as a compass, and the 
end of his tail for a centre-point. He then begins 
to dig in this space, heaps a quantity of sand on 




his head, and, by giving a good shake, casts the 
burthen outside the circle. He then continues to 
work for some minutes, turning round and round 
and walking backwards. When returned to the 
point of departure, he changes sides. Mountains 
are moved by courage and perseverance, and d 
fortiori why may not holes be dug ? So our builder 
by dint of labour constructs a large funnel with 



its point, about two inches deep. Then he takes 
up his position at the bottom of this cavity, buries 
himself there, only showing his pair of pincers 
extended and open at the bottom of the pit, and 
perfectly motionless. 

What is his expectation as he lies concealed in 
darkness and mystery ? His name will sufficiently 
declare his object. He is called the. Ant Lion. 

Yes, indeed, with justice. The very ants that 
climb so impudently over my body as I lie in 
the grass, have a most formidable enemy, who 
scrunches them up all standing, in despite of the 
desperate resistance they make. After all, what 
is there to wonder at in his manners and customs ? 
Considering that the whale, that giant denizen of 
the sea, is vanquished by the attacks of man, of 
sharks, of saw-fish, of sword-fish, of seals, and of 
white bears, it may be inferred that the ant 
cannot escape being exposed to some mischance. 
There can be no conqueror without a combat, and 
the issue of encounters is not always fortunate. 
According to Homer, Achilles himself had a vul- 



nerable heel, and yet none buTT, i.e. 
the next thing to a demigod, can help failing, not 
only in one but in both feet. 

If by chance an ant running by should fall 
into the hole that her enemy has dug, she is im- 
mediately seized in his pincers and pitilessly de- 
voured. If as she roils down she tries to cling to 
the sides of the funnel, the adversary rains sand 
upon her to hasten her fall. The ant lion is not 
the only employer of this generally successful 
stratagem ; some fishes do the same. The lot of 
the archer, an inhabitant of the Ganges, is to 
feed on insects : yet he cannot issue from the 
water to catch them in the fields of air. This 
industrious insect counsels him to hide against 
the bank till an incautious fly comes to perch 
among the aquatic weeds. The instant the victim 
is observed, a spout of water is cast at him, and 
carries him down into the river. The archer seems 
seldom to miss his aim, even at a distance of 
several feet. 



To return to the ant lion, by the way, we 
may observe he has no objection to a change of 
diet. Every insect of medium size that is attracted 
to his pit by curiosity gets into trouble. Even 
one of his own kind, if he got his foot in them 
by chance, would not be spared. Patient waiting 
for hours for a good meal makes any one savage. 

When the time for transformation is come, our 
larva, now arrived at his full growth, goes back- 
wards and forwards, tracing irregular furrows in 
the ground, and spins himself a round cocoon, 
covered with sand outside, and inside hung with 
fine white silk. Within this cocoon it changes 
into a nymph, and may there be seen curled into 
a circle, motionless, and calmly awaiting the mo- 
ment of deliverance. 

The perfect insect is very long, and a good 
deal like the dragon-fly. It has four great wings, 
with very numerous and delicate nervures. It lays 
its reddish-white eggs in a sandy and very dry 
soil, in some spot protected from the rain, or at 
the foot of an old wall with a southern exposure. 





However remarkable is the voracity of the 
ant lion, it is not equal to that of many other 
insects. All are equally ravenous on issuing from 
the egg. They fling themselves on their prey, 
gorge on it to satiety, go to sleep, and only wake 




to eat again. A naturalist has remarked that 
the larva of a fly, the Musca carnaria, or blow- 
fly, in twenty-four hours becomes two hundred 
times as heavy as at first. The raisers of silk- 
worms have made similar inquiries, and proved 



that the caterpillars hatched from one ounce of 
eggs eat sixteen hundred and nine mulberry leaves 
before reaching the perfect state. This enormous 
consumption of eatables is necessary to the larvae, 
as they must lay in a store of sustenance to be 
able to bear the long fast they undergo in the 
state of chrysalis, or nympha. Their stomacli 
changes with their nature. The greedy silkworm 
that consumed a mass of green leaves sixty 
thousand times its own weight, when become a 
moth only takes a little honey by way of nourish- 
ment. The digestive organs of the first had very 
great power ; those of the second are reduced to 
the thickness of a thread. 

It is not always so. But two paces from the 
ant lion's pit, among my Pear-Tree's roots, there 
has lain for some time a mass of eggs, united 
by a fine membrane, from which there issued 
a swarm of little larvae. These of course had 
neither wings nor wing-covers, but even from this 
early period their possession at a future day might 
be predicted, judging by four protuberances, like 


buttons, that project from their segments. The 
creatures dispersed at the foot of the slope, ate 
the grass, made their transformations, and we now 
see them skipping joyously around us in shape of 
grasshoppers. 

The ravages inflicted by caterpillars are trifling 
compared to the terrible devastations caused by 
the larvae of the locust, one of the varieties of 
that numerous family whose destroying march has 
been described most forcibly by Oriental poets.* 

A column of fire goeth before them, and a 
burning flame folio we th them. Before them ex- 
tends a rich country like the Garden of Eden, 
behind can only be seen a desert of bare mon- 
strous outlines, an ocean of stones and sand. Yes, 
nothing can escape them. The clash of their 
wings resound afar like that of the war chariot 
drawn by horses, at the moment when it dashes 
into the combat, ploughing its bloody track through 
the thickest. They pass over the tops of the hills 
like flame flying and crackling over lands covered 



with stubble, or like armed legions going to the 
war. Before them men shudder and feel their 
countenance turn pale. They march in innumer- 
able quantities, always going forward, keeping 
their rank, and confident in their strength. 

A learned traveller, Dr. Shaw, was present at 
one of these invasions in Algeria, and has given 
a most curious picture of it. The grasshoppers 
appeared at the end of March, and their numbers 
increased to such a pitch that in the following 
month their swarms when taking flight interrupted 
the light of the sun. At the beginning of May 
they retired into the Mitidjah and other neigh- 
bouring plains to lay their eggs. No sooner were 
they hatched than the young larvae banded together 
and marched in a compact army in the direction 
of the sea, leaving all perfectly bare wherever 
their legions appeared. They were indefatigable ; 
climbed trees, scaled walls, entered houses, and 
appeared to spring from the ground. Meanwhile 
the inhabitants had taken measures of defence ; 
they dug immense trenches around the gardens 


and fields, and filled them with water to several 
feet in depth. Piles of fuel had been prepared to 
be fired on the arrival of the destroying column. 

It came, made a bridge of the dead by which 
it passed the ditches, put out the fires by delivering 
over to them heaps of victims to be consumed, 
and continued its triumphant course. Other bands 
followed this first army, then still more, spreading 
around them misery, famine, and death. 

Ha'ving continued for a month this aggressive 
and persecuted existence, the larvae had reached 
their full growth and become perfect. In order 
to perform this change they attached themselves 
by their legs to a branch, or, failing that, to .any 
projecting object, and shook themselves so <0ften 
and so well as to disentangle themselves of their 
old useless skin. This laborious task lasted from 
seven to eight minutes, and was followed by an 
almost complete prostration. Nevertheless, they 
might be seen to revive as soon as the action of 
the sun and air had dried their wings, to shake 
their antennae, and spring forth more voracious 

 

than ever with fresh powers and greater activity. 
It is difficult to form an idea of the swarms of 
locusts that invaded Africa in the year 1797. 
An English naturalist, Mr. Barrow, who could 
judge with his own eyes, reports that these 
insects covered an area of country two thou- 
sand square miles in extent. The current of a 
large river in which grew some reeds was entirely 
stopped by the heaps of their bodies. Having 
mown down everything in the neighbourhood, 
the surviving green rushes on the bank had excited 
their desires, and they perished by myriads in 
trying to obtain them. 

When the locusts begin on a field of corn, they 
attack the ears first, and pluck out grain after 
grain ; then they devour the stalk, afterwards the 
leaves, and only stop when they come down to the 
surface of the ground. Once on the march, these 
larvae never stop, and their direction is determined 
by that of the wind. At sunset the immense 
army halts and divides into small detachments 
that take possession of plants, of tufts of grass, ant- 




hills, and stores, and pass the night there. Then it is 
that attempts are made to destroy them by driving 
great flocks of sheep over the spots where they 
are encamped, and incredible quantities are crushed. 

If the wind brings them, the storm also carries 
them away. Certain coast districts of Africa, 
where they multiplied with frightful rapidity, were 
delivered in this manner. A current of air from 
the north-west raised them in compact masses and 
swept them into the sea. Their bodies covered the 
coast, and composed a bank three or four feet high 
and extending nearly fifty miles. Terrible in their 
lives, they were yet more so after death, and for a 
rtime it was feared that the plague would succeed 
'to famine. 

loa our temperate climates the grasshoppers are 
not animated by such a rabid thirst for destruction. 
It required the burning emanations of a tropical 
sun and the acid fire of the desert to fling them 
thus on nature. Yet at times the locusts do unite 
in bands in Italy. They commence their travels at 
early dawn after the dew is dried up. Some of 



them spring up in the ranks, awake their sleeping 
comrades, and seem to act as messengers. Soon 
they all set out on their march, all in the same 
direction and without great deviations. Though 
very near together they never come in contact, 
and travel nearly as fast as a fly running on the 
ground without making use of its wings. If pur- 
sued or attacked on the march, they disperse, to 
assemble anew a little further off. They travel thus 
till evening without stopping, advancing about nine 
feet in the day. Though they in general prefer to 
follow the great roads and beaten paths, when they 
meet with brushwood, hedges, or ditches, they do 
not turn from their way, but seek to surmount 
these obstacles. Marshes, rivers, or canals turn 
them aside to take another direction, unless they 
manage to cross them on a bridge of reeds, or by 
making use of the bushy branches that overhang 
the water. Towards sunset they encamp, like their 
African relatives. They do not move during rain, 
or while the sky is cloudy. When their wings are 
developed they separate a little from each other, 



still, however, keeping together and advancing in 
numerous swarms. 

Locusts invaded England in the year 1748, 
but without breeding there. They were seen also 
in Poland and Lithuania, where they appeared 
in sufficient numbers to darken the air. Trees 
with long and flexible branches bent under their 
weight. Our locusts, with their erratic and dis- 
orderly habits, were sure to obtain the attention 
of the magistrates ; so we find several provisions 
that concern them. The jurisconsults questioned : 
What if a farmer by contract having renounced 
making any kind of accident a plea for avoiding 
the payment of his rent, should see his harvest 
devoured by grasshoppers ? Should he bear the 
loss, or the landed proprietor be charged with it ? 
This question wa,s the subject of a Latin thesis of 
Joachim Hoppius : De edaci locustorum pernicie, 
a L. Excepto lempore E. Local, et conduct. It 
may be discovered in some old libraries, where we 
will let it repose in peace until such time as our 
own fields be mown down by locusts. 



CHAPTER XII. 

A VINDICATION. 

IF there is a maligned, calumniated, slandered 
insect, it is the one who has planted her home 
before us, under a stone at the foot of the great 
Pear-Tree, at a very short distance from a superb 
tuft of camomile. 

It is true that her appearance does not give 
a favourable impression. Her head is brown, 
corselet flat and black, with paler edges. The 
wing-cases are very short, and make her look 
like a man who has lost his arms. She is awk- 
ward, inelegant, and seems only to have stumps 

for wing-cases. The body is terminated by a 
long pair of pincers, of hard substance, curved 
into an arch, with the points touching. She is 
known by the significant name of Forficula, or 
Earwig. If she comes into our sight when going 
about her business, she usually forfeits her life 
for her imprudence. The learned have taken much 
pains in pleading her cause, and endeavouring to 
convince people that it would be very injurious 
to the Forficula to live inside a skull, all the more 
so that there are plenty of hot brains in the 
world. The anatomists have made common cause 
with naturalists, and borne witness to the im- 
possibility of such an entrance being effected 
into our bony case, perfectly closed at the point 
of the ear ; but they are not listened to. Ento- 
mologists, thinking that they could put an end to 
the question, added that the insect's pincers were 
not strong enough to produce the slightest im- 
pression. Their simplicity is derided. 

A single word only is required to create a preju- 
dice ; millions may be spoken without confuting it. 


At least thus much justice may be granted to 
the earwig, as to allow that it is full of devotion 
to its larvae, not abandoning them till they are 
of an age to make their own way in the world. 
If we raise the stone under which she has taken 
shelter, we shall find her there surrounded by her 
family. She only robs us from time to time 
of some fruit, makes a hole in a ripe pear, and 
buries herself in it like an open-mouthed glutton. 
Open fields are preferred by her, wet sand, the 
margins of ponds, and shady gardens. Her life 
is peaceful, calm, and rural ; but this does not 
prevent her being considered as odious. 

Near her lives one of her relations, having 
like her an elongated body, filiform antennae, wings 
hidden under disproportionately small coverts, and 
likewise a great bull-dog head, with jaws pro- 
jecting to right and left in a most menacing 
fashion. It is the great black Staphyllinus,* of 
agile limbs, and of sharp, teasing temper. He 
searches for decaying animal matter, and throws 



himself on living insects, and his voracity even 
induces him to commit Staphyllinophagy ; that is 
to say, to eat his own fellows. 

Yet this individual, though his habits are sus- 
picious, does not excite any repugnance. It is 
true that he raises his head at the least attack, 
brandishing his tail as if he had a terrible sting 




in it ; while the poor earwig, if it falls into an 
ant-hill, or under the foot of man, tries to escape 
at its utmost speed, without having an idea of 
making use of those famous pincers that have made 
her so many enemies. 

Another unfortunate, more abject and miserable 
still, composed of rings soldered one to the other, 



with naked body, shiny, tapering to a point in 
front, and a dweller underground, is moving a 
short distance off. The approach of a mole makes 
it hastily quit its obscure hole ; and here it is 
crawling through the grass, turning and twisting 
as if suffering from a spasm, as it feels the warm 
rays of the sun upon its cold skin. It is the 
Lumbricus, or Earth-worm. 

It hates the glare of day, the blue sky, and 
balmy breeze. What it likes is the great grey 
cloud heavily driving over the horizon, shedding 
torrents of rain on its course, washing the leaves 
and moistening the branches, distributing all around 
great puddles of muddy water. Then it protrudes 
half its body from its den, raises itself painfully 
to some flower bent down by the storm, drags it 
to the orifice of a deep hole soiled with mire and 
discoloured, and then slowly devours it. 

Only just sufficient for this are its organs 
The first segment of the body is a little prolonged, 
and answers for an upper lip. The next ring has 
a border, above which is a narrow opening. Such 


is the mouth. The nervous system is very little 
developed, and consists of a chain of very small 
ganglions, distributed from one end of the body 
to the other. It presents hardly any individuality, 
and each one unites the two sexes. The eggs are 
vesicles, with horny shell, oval or elongated. 

We only meet it with a gesture of repugnance, 
and yet this wretched earth-worm is beautiful, if 
only beauty consists in the perfect harmony of 
different organs, and the complete adaptation to 
the medium in which they are to be employed. But 
how can we get this definition admitted, especially 
among painters ? Let us study the pictures of the 
greatest masters, and what shall we find there but 
that each one's ideal is the face of their own kind, 
chastened by thought, embellished by fancy, re- 
fined by meditation ? The earth-worm must be 
resigned to be considered ugly till it too gets 
knowledge .how to wield the pencil and the brush. 

It has both already, and no need of instru- 
ments. I see from here, thanks to my double 
eight, eight stiff, short-hooked bristles under each 



of its rings. Their direction is from front to rear, 
and at the top of each is a pore. They are em- 
ployed as feet for want of better, when it is com- 
pelled to quit its underground gallery and seek 
adventures on the high road. 

If new proofs were wanted of the injustice of 
certain generally-received opinions, we should find 
them, and in plenty, without leaving the old Pear- 
Tree. There is one of its population that children 
look for under the name of Lady-bird, or Lady- 
cow, known scientifically by the appellation of 
Coccinella, a round, smooth, brilliant, lustrous 
bead, adorned with a black head, set off with two 
little white spots. Besides, she is marked with 
seven dark marks disposed triangularly, and fault- 
lessly regular. Nothing can be prettier, and one 
would hesitate to do the least harm to this charm- 
ing little thing, so exceedingly well enamelled. It 
ought to live, it would seem, only on the pollen 
of flowers, mingled with a little dew. 

We must not trust it. Do you see that great 
grub, long and grey, bedaubed with black and 






white, crawling among the plant lice and tearing 
them up with its horny jaws ? The vital juice 
flows around it in drops, and it kills whatever it 
touches. The author of all these murders, so coolly 




perpetrated all along her track, is the innocent 
Lady-bird in the first phase of her existence. 

When gorged upon the swarming population 
around her till no more can be swallowed, she 




clings to a leaf with the end of her tail, an er 
skin stretches like the cloth of a bag that is too 
full. Gradually the circulation in it becomes less 
active, and this outer skin stiffens, and forms a 
species of cocoon, whence this living bead at last 
issues, of whom people say that she must be re- 
spected as never having done harm to any one. 

Poor earwig ! unfortunate worm ! why have 
they not the impertinence of the Coach-horse, or 
the credit of the Lady-bird ? Certainly it is not 
from man that they have learnt the lesson of 
humility and modesty. From the time he put in an 
appearance here below, he made the earth that he 
inhabits the centre of the universe, and himself 
the point of attraction to everything in this world. 
Believe him, and stones, plants, animals, every- 
thing, have only been created with a view to his 
employment of them. This theory still numbers 
many votaries, and would be pleasing to me also 
did not some facts stand in singular opposition 
to it. These are sometimes embarrassing ; so we 
will pass our opinion on them. 

 

It is not to be denied that great numbers of 
insects pillage and ravage our fields, attack us 
at home at our very hearths, and cause us an 
immensity of damage. They perforate our fur- 
niture, wander in our libraries, make nests in 
wardrobes, go from one room to another, and 
leave everywhere visible traces of their stay. 
They devour our corn, gnaw our fruit, destroy 
the plants of the kitchen garden, disturb our 
rest, prick us, wound us, bite us, and persecute 
us in a thousand ways. 

Indeed it must be confessed that these are 
strange sort of auxiliaries, and their ways would 
excite reflection did not the ingenuity of man 
find an answer for all. 

It says : " They have received life in order 
to punish us for our crimes, and are employed 
by Heaven to scourge our vices." 

This explanation is good, but I prefer another 
that I owe to a flight of birds that alighted on 
my old tree with ever-moving wings and un- 
closed beak. This troop, which had assembled 


to pursue some late flying owl, comprised titmice, 
chaffinches, hedge sparrows, and even linnets. 

All these birds twittered, whistled, and sang, 
in different tongues. Each one had his favourite 
notes, his peculiar scale, and his own warble. 
Some strung together two or three sharp and 
shrill notes without pretension ; others rose on 
their little legs and made a display of rolling 
trills. 

And -strange it was that the difference of all 
these tones raised at once over the mead was not 
at all disagreeable. They .melted one into the 
other, and constituted an indefinable harmony, 
rather \vague, but full of charm. 

And 'hearing them, I said : " There are in 
this world beings of all kinds, unequal in power 
and intelligence, according as more or less 
deeply penetrated by divine breath. They have a 
common bond in their origin, and obey the same 
general laws. They are frequently in accordance, 
they are constantly in connexion, but all have 
their individual destiny, their own development, 



and peculiar transformations. One has not been 
created for another, and none of them, not even 
man, is a centre of light and heat. The sun 
that lights and warms them, the real source of 
life, blazes far from them all above their heads 
in the immeasurable height of the skies. Our 
philosophers and sages, stammering in the lan- 
guage of truth, have modelled creation at the will 
of their conceit ; but fruitful mother Nature re- 
veals to them another principle, based on love, 
the undefined striving of beings for perfection, 
the constant aspiration of all that exists towards 
a better state. In varied forms, sthas aspiration 
increases ,as it ascends in the scale, till at last 
it loses itself where our gaze cannot follow it, 
in that Infinite Supreme Eternal Unity, before 
whom the intellect of man is nothing but un- 
certainty and confusion." 

So let us forgive the earth-worm's disagreeable 
appearance and the lady-bird's sanguinary customs. 

Besides, the latter is really charming, and 
seems like a waif from a jeweller's workshop. 


Some of them are red, with two great white 
marks on the sides : these are found on the alder ; 
some scarlet, with five black round spots ; others 
again in scarlet clothing, but with a yellow corselet 
and marked with thirteen black dots : these last 
live on the wych-elm. One of the largest, the 
Coccinella Argus, is all red below as well as above, 
head and breast of one same colour. On each 
wing-cover may be seen five dark spots, both sides 
exactly alike, and there is an eleventh at the 
junction of the wings. These spots are round 
and black, with a yellow rim, different from the 
colour of the wing-cases, and look like so many 
ever open eyes disposed over the creature's whole 
body. 

It may be supposed that this brilliant per- 
sonage is somewhat scarce, and does not often 
favour us with her presence. She lives on bushes 
in the open country where the air is good and 
plant-lice fat and numerous. 

A. striped and very pretty Coccinella is found 
on flowers, but yet less curious than another 


variety of the same family also an inhabitant 
of flowers. This has a real chessboard on its 
back. We should never finish if we tried to 
describe all that there are in collections. 

There are lady-birds gilded and silvered, and 
purple, striped with these different hues. Indeed, 
some of them are shaggy and crossed by two 
great red bands. I have seen some that crawled 
on branches like little tortoises on earth, with 
a sharp projecting margin all round their wing- 
covers. Nature is prodigal, inexhaustible, and 
never counts the jewels in her casket. 




CHAPTER XIII. 

THE OBSEQUIES OF A FIELD MOUSE. 

EVERY one knows the town rat, that impudent 
guest always ready to hold festival at another's 
table, and who even has the hardihood to invite 
some of his long-moustached friends who, like 
himself, may be moving about in search of food 
at night, with the stomach more active than the 
conscience. The country rat is also possessed of 
a certain notoriety, thanks to La Fontaine. Some- 
times he is found in farms sleeping on bundles 
of straw like a real vagabond, constantly hunted 
by the cats, those volunteer members of the rural 





police. Both of them, the town rat and the 
country rat, are of very marked style, to which 
Callot has done justice. 




They are mendicants, and well contented so 
to be. Such is not their cousin the field mouse, 





whose curious history came to my knowledge in 
my meadow. 

The cousin in question is of small stature, 




and does not measure much more than three 
inches from the tip of his nose to the root of 
his tail. His head is large, nibbler that he is, 



and his muzzle blunt. His cutting teeth are 
very yellow, and as for his molars, they have a 
fla,t crown furrowed transversely on it very much 
like those of the elephant. His ear is small, a 
mark of good birth, and is well clothed in fur. 
The eyes project and are very sharp, and the 
tail is in part without fur. The upper part of 
the body is a mingled tint of brown and black, 
the stomach of a very dark ash-coloured grey. 

Our field mouse, far from passing a miserable 
existence like his congeners, always finds means 
of living in opulence. In the month of August, 
when the ears of corn ripen and cover the plain 
afar with golden masses, he scampers before the 
labourer, cuts the wheat-stalks, gnaws the fattest 
grains, and so takes his tithe of the harvest. 
Later he mixes with the gleaners, and knows 
better than they how to swell his sheaf. When 
the land is bared, and there are nothing but lean 
pipes of stubble to be found, he moves a few steps 
away to newly-sown fields. What a treasure 
is a rich furrow fall of grain left free to his 



appetite ! If this resource fails, lie goes into en- 
closed meads to destroy the roots of grass and 
plants, or pays a visit to gardens and orchards. 
In winter, when driven by the snow from open 
fields, he frequents the woods full of acorns and 
beech-nuts. In time of absolute fast his measures 
are soon taken, for he falls upon the weakest of his 
neighbours, were it even on another field mouse, 
tearing him to pieces and eating him up. 

This is what is called bending to circum- 
stances and knowing what one is about ! Who 
would not wish to be a field mouse, even though 
naturally a bit of a rat already. 

To great activity in destruction and much 
agility, the cunning creature adds the disastrous 
quality of multiplying prodigiously. He and his 
family sometimes establish considerable colonies, 
extending in a short time over several square 
leagues. The female brings forth twice a year 
in our climate, in spring and summer, ten or 
twelve little ones. Farther north, where the pine 
takes the place of oak and beech, its fecundity 



is not so great, and only displayed once a year, 
during the last days of April. 

The field mouse makes for himself under- 
ground retreats, whither he flies at the smallest 
sign of danger, like the classical brigands of Spain 
or Italy. These retreats serve him at once as 
abode and storehouse. They are not very spacious, 
it is true, nor burrowed very deeply into the 
earth, but yet they provide a secure retreat, and 
are generally divided into two or three chambers. 
The galleries occupied by different families are 
not contiguous ; between tten a greater or less 
space always remains. If the occupants of these 
underground chambers leave them or die, no 
others take up their abode there. New comers 
prefer to work for themselves further off for 
their own use, and despise the labours of another. 
None of them generally dig deeper than six 
inches or a foot, but often the females, before 
producing their young, prolong the excavation to 
even two feet deep, by a gallery, hardly an inch 
in size, that after several windings opens on a 



kind of chamber provided with a soft lining of 
dry grass ; and on this downy couch the brood 
are born. 

The stout farmer, joint owner of my meadow, 
had declared war to the death against all this 
race, harshly calling them vermin. He had been 
told that leaves of alder spread on the field and 
ploughed in would drive away the field mice, 
and had tried it : a useless labour, for next year 
his enemies were more numerous than ever. 
Exasperated by want of success, he sowed in 
his orchard and on his land a quantity of oats 
steeped in a solution of arsenic. ' This method 
answered indeed only too well, for many fowls, 
and the best of layers, were killed as well as our 
indefatigable devourers. This was no true suc- 
cess for our friend : though victorious, he paid the 
expenses of the war. So he changed his tactics, 
took spurge-laurel (Daphne tliymelcea), which is 
poisonous only to certain animals, pounded it in 
a mortar to extract the juice, soaked grains of 
corn in it, and distributed them under bits of 




tile which he placed about in the fields. This 
time his triumph was complete : a swarm of field 
mice perished in mortal convulsions, and one of 
them who had been used to come regularly for 
three years to eat the peas in my meadow, was 
there panting before my eyes, ready to yield up his 
last breath. I was a witness to his final struggle, 
and saw him gradually grow fixed into that 
icy, immovable rigidity which is the companion 
of death. 

There he was, by the side of the Pear-Tree 
where he had before passed such pleasant hours, 
upside down on the saoad, with his feet in the air, 
muzzle .contracted, and glassy eye. I expected to 
see a legion of ants .arrive those fellows who are 
so clever at cutting up a body and laying the 
skeleton bare without dislocating a joint, when 
a strange sound rang around me, grave and pro- 
longed like the great bell of Notre Dame. An 
insect had just passed about an inch from my 
ear and pitched down on the field mouse. 

It was a little smaller than a dung-beetle, but 



longer and much more active. As for his attire, 
it was in complete conformity with his business : 
head, body, and corselet black, with some yellow 
hairs on them ; wing-cases or upper wings 
divided by two yellow cross bands with broken 
outlines ; curious antennae, with a reddish mass at 
the end formed of four small plates ranged on 
one another by the middle, and the last was 
thicker, and in the shape of a little irregular 
pointed button. In a word, he wore the true 
garb of a fashionable undertaker, grave, dark, 
and handsome. 

The field mouse had no -cause for complaints of 
anybody but his enemy the stout farmer. Nature 
sent him, as soon as his decease was duly regis- 
tered, a gravedigger with good large legs, skilful 
in excavating ground, and carrying all his topis 
with him to finish the job as soon as possible. 
The Necropliorus vespillo for so is this curious 
individual named does not work, however, with- 
out pay. He has some eggs to lay before he 
himself passes from life to death, and proposes to 


bury them with the body. Flesh-feeding larvae 
will spring from them, and they will perform 
after several metamorphoses the duties first per- 
formed for them. Behold our burying beetle 
taking a tour round the field mouse, inspecting the 
field of operations, and finding the earth friable, 
light, and but little hardened. Could there be any- 
thing easier for an experienced gravedigger than 
to make a hole in it ? But how transport the 
body to it when, made ? It was clear enough 
that the power of the burying beetle was not 
sufficient. "Without being a Goliath, or even a 
David, a field mouse weighs something, and our 
undertaker has not much more than good-will. 
No, I am wrong ; he is endued with a marvellous 
instinct. 

Having finished his inspection, he stops a 
moment to take time to reflect. During this 
interval we observe a special peculiarity the 
massive, square, powerful form of his corselet. 
Doubtless there is good reason for it, for this is 
what enables the insect to push its head under 



the mouse, slightly raising it, and to slip between 
the body and the surface of the ground so as 
nearly to disappear from our eyes. He stops there 
for a long time, and we begin to lose patience. 
What can he be doing in this inconvenient posi- 
tion, crushed under a weight disproportioned to 
his strength ? Does he wish to try to carry the 
rodent, in spite of the evident folly of the attempt ? 
No, he does not even dream of it. He has 
just simply excavated the ground under the field 
mouse, and it sinks slowly but with steady pro- 
gress into the moving sand. I still distinguish 
his muzzle, with his ornaments of long grey mous- 
taches ; then it sinks, and shows itself in profile, 
gets smaller, and disappears for ever ; very soon 
the feet alone of the dead animal project from 
the surface of the meadow; they sink and sink, 
and are in their turn covered ; the object of the 
Necropborus is attained ; now its larvae have an 
asylum and a provision of victuals. 

A foreign naturalist, M. Gleditsch, has given 
some interesting details of the industry of this 



gravedigger. Going one day in pursuit of them, 
he caught four, and put them in a great glass 
globe half filled with earth and carefully closed. 
Then he put in two dead frogs. In a very little 
time one of the two frogs had been interred by 
the Necrophori. Meanwhile their companions in 
captivity wandered round the walls of the vase 
trying to escape, but finding none resigned them- 
selves to their fate and buried the other frog. 
Then he gave them the body of a linnet. A pair 
of our grave diggers at once set to work re- 
moving the ground beneath the bird's body, and 
dragging it by the feathers so as to make it go 
down quicker. The male Necrophorus ended by 
working at it alone for five hours. From time 
to time he came out of the pit, climbed upon the 
linnet, pushed it, and returned to his hole as quick 
as possible so as not to lose a minute. 

But at last even he was tired, and found that 
he must take some repose. He returned above 
ground, and, placing his head on the ground by 
the side of the body, remained motionless for an 



hour, without even moving the tips of his antennae. 
When his strength was renewed, he recommenced 
his digging operations with fresh courage. By 
next morning the linnet had sunk an inch and 
a half, and was quite surrounded by earth ; by 
evening the excavator had got it down half an 
inch more, and by the next day the bird had 
entirely disappeared. M. Gleditsch continued to 
give them small dead animals, which were buried 
one after the other. He found at last by the 
end of the fiftieth day that the four Necrophori 
had buried in the small space that they possessed, 
four frogs, three birds, two fish, a mole, and two 
grasshoppers, besides the entrails of another fish 
and two pieces of ox lung. Until further ex- 
periments of the same kind be made, it may be 
taken as a fact that one Necrophorus alone can 
in two days bury a body equal to forty times 
his own weight. 

And here was I who thought before I studied 
my breviary that work was man's privilege 



CHAPTER XIV. 

CONCLUSION. 

HOURS passed on, and I went on sleeping, happy 
in escaping the requirements of what is called the 
world. "What things had I not seen in these great 
enclosures ? Being rose upon being, and one exist- 
ence fluttered forward in another. Everywhere had 
I been witness of the presence of life, its struggles, 
and feverish activity. It could be perceived in the 
grass, on the leaves, on the surface of the earth, 
underground, in the midst of the air. Its powerful 
breath made everything fruitful, warmed the veins 
of millions of creatures, disintegrated even the stones 
themselves, and dragged them out of their inertia. 



How long could I have continued thus a sleep 
full of revelations, so absorbed in the beautiful 
picture unrolling before my eyes, respectfully 
spelling out the hieroglyphic characters of the 
great book of creation \ 

I cannot tell. A hundred years, perhaps, like 
that good monk of the Middle Ages, with mind 
enraptured among the glories of the heaven, who 
awoke with his beard white and his limbs failing 
from age. Time in reality is nothing at all, except 
as the stuff of which our existence is composed 
so short, alas, so ephemeral ! In absolute truth, 
there is no such thing as time ; the Infinite has 
no limits ; within it are unknown the landmarks 
that we so ingeniously place on our way as 
we pass to measure the surface. All that I can 
answer for is, that a very natural occurrence put 
an end to my reveries. 

At the very moment when the burying beetle 
was casting his last shovelful of earth on the 
stiffened body of the field mouse, a man took hold 
of my arm and 'shook me violently. I sprang up 




immediately in amazement, and I 

never shall I forget what was before my eyes. 

Before me stood the most curious-looking per- 
sonage imaginable. I have said it was a man, 
but any one might have made a journey from Pekin 
to Paris without find ing even among china curiosities 
such a fantastic specimen of our race. He had on 
a maroon, coat, with enormous pockets, and imple- 
ments of all kinds sticking out of them. He held 
a butterfly-net in his hand, a magnifying-glass 
hung from his neck, and his waistcoat was covered 
with long pins. A swarm of beetles ornamented 
his hat, pinned all about in the felt. 

He said to me : " Sir, I believe I am doing 
right in telling you that there is going to be 
a storm. And we have only just time to run to 
the farm." 

It was so indeed. The sky, which had been 
azure blue when I entered on the meadow, had 
gradually darkened and at last become covered by 
great heavy clouds. Some paler streaks of vapour 
of irregular shape were displayed upon this dark 




background, and slowly advanced towards the 
meadow from two opposite directions. They might 
have been compared to little ships with white sails, 
sailing in an ocean of shadows, and rushing into 
collision with one another stem to stem to fight by 
the board. Around us reigned a perfect calm. The 
air was heavy, sultry, and we had some difficulty in 
breathing. Some birds crossed the plain with shrill 
cries and disappeared among the bushes. Soon the 
leaves clashed together like so many little battledores 
moved by invisible hands. A light wind arose and 
shook the grass, increased as it got nearer the trees 
standing on the slopes, and rocked them violently. 
Some large heavy drops of rain fell around us with a 
splash- then a long roll of thunder echoing noisily 
made my companion and myself both quicken our 
steps towards the houses. As I walked I cast a 
last glance towards my meadow ; I could no longer 
see its thousand details, its tufted vegetation, and 
mysterious inhabitants, but only its broad outlines 
altered by the effect of the storm, and, as a horizon, 
the sky ploughed up by lightning. 



The new comer and I conversed as we passed 
up the valley. He was a distinguished but ori- 
ginal entomologist, who only employed himself on 
one class of Coleoptera, the Buprestidse. He had 
made a monograph of them, from the anatomical, 
organic, and historical points of view, and at his 
house possessed nearly all the varieties of them, in 
a cabinet ticketed with care, with their legs 
symmetrically extended, antennae regularly placed, 
with their names, surnames, and distinguishing 
markn, 

I spoke to him of my recent initiation into the 
inner mysteries of nature, the spectacles I had been 
witness of, the marvels of the instinct of the crea- 
tures, and their singular manners. 

" How much poetry," said I to him, "what beau- 
ties are there not beneath the tufts of wild plants we 
carelessly tread under foot ! How much is to be 
learnt from these various pictures of the life of the 
smallest of creatures ! The story of the population 
of an old Pear-Tree, simply written currents calamo, 
would itself alone furnish a great deal of interest." 



The collector looked at me, winking his eyes 

and slightly shrugging his shoulders, and said to me : 

"All this is not science. Insects are not 




subjects for mere gossip, especially the JBuprestidce. 
If a man has any pretensions to do the work well, 
he must begin by making out a catalogue of them 



and carefully detailing them in official language. 
Scientific terms must never be neglected, but rather 
freely used as tokens of depth. As for the habits 
of animals, it is more suitable to describe them 
soberly, and by preference rather in a concise and 
dry than in an amusing manner. The gate of 
the Temple of Wisdom ought to remain closed 
against those who have not energy enough to knock 
long at it to compel it to open to them." 

" But," answered I, rather vexed with this 
dogmatic speech, " I would wish you to remark that 
there is interest in the thousand and one exempli- 
fications of human life. People do not confine 
themselves to studying the material mechanism, but 
proceed also to inquire into it from the psycho- 
logical point of view." 

" No doubt," said he ; " no doubt. So I have 
often been pleased with reading romances." 

"And why should not the insect," I went on, 
pursuing my argument, " the elder born in creation, 
have, like man, not his romance I do not ask so 
much but his true history?" 





"What is your object?" lie replied, learnedly 
raising his forefinger to the point of his nose, which 
was remarkably long, sharp, and inquisitive. 

Said I to him, with the deepest obeisance : " To 
make nature beloved, and thus render the approach 
to science the easier." 

These words made him thoughtful. We hurried 
to the farm, and when we got there concluded a 
holy alliance and pressed each other's hands with 
cordiality. 

" I was wrong," he said to me ; " there are never 
too many workers in the Vineyard of Our Lord/' 


SING-SONG 



A NURSERY RHYME BOOK 



BY 



CHRISTINA G. ROSSETTI 



RHYMES 

DEDICATE D 

WITHOUT PERMISSION 

TO 
THE BABY 

WHO 
SUGGESTED THEM


CONTENTS 




A BABY'S cradle with no baby in it . . .15 

A city plum is not a plum . . . . .12 

A diamond or a coal ? . . . . . . 101 

A frisky lamb ........ 80 

A house of cards . . . . . . .115 

A linnet in a gilded cage . . . . . .21 

All the bells were ringing ...... 107 

A motherless soft lambkin ...... 63 

An emerald is as green as grass . . . . .102 

Angels at the foot ....... i 

A pin has a head, but has no hair .... 56 

A pocket handkerchief to hem ..... 43 

A ring upon her finger ...... 95 

A rose has thorns as well as honey . . . .121 

A toadstool comes up in a night ..... 42 

A white hen sitting ....... 86 

Baby cry 6 

Baby lies so last asleep ...... 132 



IX 



SING-SONG 



Eight o'clock 

Ferry me across the water . 

Fly away, fly away over the sea . 

" Goodbye in fear, goodbye in sorrow ' 
Growing in the vale . 

Heartsease in my garden bed 

Hear what the mournful linnets say . 

Hope is like a harebell trembling from its birth 

Hop-o'-my-thumb and little Jack Homer . 

Hopping frog, hop here and be seen . 

How many seconds in a minute ? 

Hurt no living thing ..... 



PAGE 



Blind from my birth . 9 1 

Boats sail on the rivers . . 1O 3 
Bread and milk for breakfast 

Brown and furry ... 4 1 

Brownie, Brownie, let down your milk 27 

Clever little Willie wee . 1T 9 

Crimson curtains round my mother's bed . 131 

Crying, my little one, footsore and weary ? . 19 

Currants on a bush ... 87 

Dancing on the hill-tops 

Dead in the cold, a song-singing thrush 

" Ding a ding" . 



CONTENTS xi 



PAGE 

I am a King . . . . . . -73 

I caught a little ladybird . . . . . .106 

I dreamt I caught a little owl . . . . .112 

I dug and dug amongst the snow . . . .11 

If all were rain and never sun . . . . .25 

If a mouse could fly . . . . . . -75 

If a pig wore a wig ....... 44 

If hope grew on a bush ...... 70 

If I were a Oueen ....... 34 

If stars dropped out of heaven . . . . .124 

If the moon came from heaven . . . . .127 

If the sun could tell us half . . . . .126 

I have a little husband ...... 109 

I have a Poll parrot . . . . . . .114 

I have but one rose in the world .... 89 

I know a baby, such a baby . . . . .133 

In the meadow what in the meadow ? . . .79 
I planted a hand . . . . . . 71 

Is the moon tired ? she looks so pale . . . .123 

January cold desolate . . . . . 51 

" Kookoorookoo ! kookoorookoo ! ' . . . . 5 

Lie a-bed . . . . . . . 135 

Love me, I love you ...... 2 

Lullaby, oh, lullaby! . . . . . .134 

Margaret has a mil king-pail ..... 78 
Minnie and Mattie ....... 30 



xil SING-SONG 



PAGE 



Minnie bakes oaten cakes . . . . . .85 

Mix a pancake . . . . . . . .81 

Motherless baby and babylcss mother . . . .130 

Mother shake the cherry-tree . . . . -55 

My baby has a father and a mother .... 3 

My baby has a mottled fist . . . . .23 

Oh, fair to see . . . . . . . .118 

O Lady Moon, your horns point toward the east . .128 

One and one are two . , . .46 

On the grassy banks . . . . . . .28 

O sailor, come ashore . . . . . .100 

Our little baby fell asleep ...... 4. 

O wind, where have you been . . . . .26 

O wind, why do you never rest . . . . .18 

Playing at bob cherry . . . . . .88 

Pussy has a whiskered face ..... 68 

Roses blushing red and white ..... 93 

Rosy maiden Winifred ...... 90 

Rushes in a watery place ...... 29 

Seldom " can't " ....... 45 

Sing me a song ........ 76 

Stroke a flint, and there is nothing to admire . . 36 

Swift and sure the swallow . . . . . 1 1 I 

The city mouse lives in a house ..... 60 
The days are clear ....... 39 



CONTENTS xiii 



PAGE 

The dear old woman in the lane . . . . 1 10 

The dog lies in his kennel . .... 69 

The horses of the sea . . .... no 

The lily has an air . . . . . -77 

The lily has a smooth stalk . . . . .104 

The peach tree on the southern wall . . . .120 

The peacock has a score of eyes ..... 67 

There is but one May in the year . . . -37 
There is one that has a head without an eye . . 74 
There's snow on the fields ..... o 

The rose that blushes rosy red . . . . .117 

The rose with such a bonny blush . . . .116 

The summer nights are short ..... 38 

The wind has such a rainy sound .... 82 

Three little children. ...... 83 

Three plum buns ....... 62 

Twist me a crown of wind-flowers .... 40 

Under the ivy bush . . . . . . .72 

Wee tvee husband . . . . . . .108 

What are heavy ? sea-sand and sorrow . . -35 

What does the bee do ? . . . . . .113 

What does the donkey bray about ? . . . .61 

What do the stars do ? . . . . . .129 

What is pink ? a rose is pink . . . . -53 

What will you give me for my pound ? . .50 
When a mounting skylark sings ..... 97 



xiv SING-SONG 



PAGE 

When fishes set umbrellas up . . . .66 

When the cows come home the milk i., coining . . 92 
Where innocent bright-eyed daisies are 59 
Who has seen the wind ? . 98 

Why did baby die ....... 24 

Wrens and robins in the hedge . . . . .22 

Your brother has a falcon . . . . . .13 



IHt 

. 




Jfi 



Angels at the foot, 

And Angels at the head, 
And like a curly little lamb 

My pretty babe in bed. 



B 




Love me, I love you, 
Love me, my baby ; 

Sing it high, sing it low, 
Sing it as may be. 

Mother's arms under you, 
Her eyes above you ; 

Sing it high, sing it low, 
Love me, I love you. 




My baby has a father and a mother, 

Rich little baby ! 
Fatherless, motherless, I know another 

Forlorn as may be : 

Poor little baby ! 




Our little baby fell asleep, 

And may not wake again 
For days and days, and weeks and weeks ; 

But then he 'Jl wake again, 
And come with his own pretty look, 

And kiss Mamma again. 










" Kookoorookoo ! kookoorookoo ! ' 
Crows the cock before the morn ; 

" Kikirikee ! kikirikee ! ' 
Roses in the east are born. 

" Kookoorookoo ! kookoorookoo ! ' 
Early birds begin their singing ; 

( ' Kikirikee ! kikirikee ! " 

The day, the day, the day is springing. 




Baby cry- 
Oh fie ! 



At the physic in the cup : 
Gulp it twice 
And gulp it thrice, 

Baby gulp it up. 




Eight o'clock ; 

The postman's knock ! 

Five letters for Papa ; 

One for Lou, 

And none for you, 
And three for dear Mamma. 



\ 




Bread and milk for breakfast, 
And woollen frocks to wear, 

And a crumb for robin redbreast 
On the cold days of the year. 



s 




There 's snow on the fields, 
And cold in the cottage, 

While I sit in the chimney nook 
Supping hot pottage. 

My clothes are soft and warm, 

Fold upon fold, 
But I 'm so sorry for the poor 

Out in the cold. 




Dead in the cold, a song-singing thrush, 
Dead at the foot of a snowberry bush,- 
Weave him a coffin of rush, 
Dig him a grave where the soft mosses grow, 
Raise him a tombstone of snow. 



10 




I dug and dug amongst the snow, 

And thought the flowers would never grow ; 

I dug and dug amongst the sand, 

And still no green thing came to hand. 

Melt, O snow ! the warm winds blow . 
To thaw the flowers and melt the snow ; 
But all the winds from every land 
Will rear no blossom from the sand. 



ii 




A city plum is not a plum ; 

A dumb-bell is no bell, though dumb ; 

A party rat is not a rat ; 

A sailor's cat is not a cat ; 

A soldier's frog is not a frog ; 

A captain's log is not a log. 



12 




Your brother has a falcon, 

Your sister has a flower ; 
But what is left for mannikin, 

Born within an hour ? 

I '11 nurse you on my knee, my knee, 

My own little son ; 
I '11 rock you, rock you, in my arms, 

My least little one. 




Hear what the mournful linnets say : 
" We built our nest compact and warm, 

But cruel boys came round our way 
And took our summerhouse by storm. 

" They crushed the eggs so neatly laid ; 

So now we sit with drooping wing, 
And watch the ruin they have made, 

Too late to build, too sad to sing." 

14 




A baby's cradle with no baby in it, 

A baby's grave where autumn leaves drop sere ; 
The sweet soul gathered home to Paradise, 

The body waiting here. 




Hop-o'-my-thumb and little Jack Horner, 
What do you mean by, tearing and fighting ? 

Sturdy dog Trot close round the corner, 
I never caught him growling and biting. 



16 




Hope is like a harebell trembling from its birth, 
Love is like a rose the joy of all the earth ; 
Faith is like a lily lifted high and white, 
Love is like a lovely rose the world's delight ; 
Harebells and sweet lilies show a thornless growth, 
But the rose with all its thorns excels them both. 




O wind, why do you never rest, 
Wandering, whistling to and fro, 

Bringing rain out of the west, 

From the dim north bringing snow ? 



18 




Crying, my little one, footsore and weary ? 

Fall asleep, pretty one, warm on my shoulder : 
I must tramp on through the winter night dreary, 

While the snow falls on me colder and colder. 

You are my one, and I have not another ; 

Sleep soft, my darling, my trouble and treasure ; 
Sleep warm and soft in the arms of your mother, 

Dreaming of pretty things, dreaming of pleasure. 




Growing in the vale 

By the uplands hilly, 
Growing straight and frail, 

Lady Daffadowndilly. 

In a golden crown, 
And a scant green gown 

While the spring blows chilly, 
Lady Daffadown, 

Sweet Daffadowndilly. 



20 




A linnet in a gilded cage, 
A linnet on a bough, 

In frosty winter one might doubt 
Which bird is luckier now. 

But let the trees burst out in leaf, 
And nests be on the bough, 

Which linnet is the luckier bird, 
Oh who could doubt it now ? 



21 




Wrens and robins in the hedge, 

Wrens and robins here and there ; 
Building, perching, pecking, fluttering, 
Everywhere ! 



22 




My baby has a mottled fist, 

My baby has a neck in creases ; 

My baby kisses and is kissed, 

For he 's the very thing for kisses. 



2 3 




K^'<P5 



Why did baby die, 
Making Father sigh, 
Mother cry ? 

Flowers, that bloom to die, 
Make no reply 
Of "why?" 
But bow and die. 







If all were rain and never sun, 
No bow could span the hill ; 

If all were sun and never rain, 
There 'd be no rainbow still. 




O wind, where have you been, 
That you blow so sweet ? 

Among the violets 

Which blossom at your feet. 

The honeysuckle waits 

For Summer and for heat. 

But violets in the chilly Spring 
Make the turf so sweet. 



Brownie, Brownie, let down your milk 
White as swansdown and smooth as silk, 
Fresh as dew and pure as snow : 
For I know where the cowslips blow, 
And you shall have a cowslip wreath 
No sweeter scented than your breath. 



27 




On the grassy banks 
Lambkins at their pranks ; 
Woolly sisters, woolly brothers 

Jumping off their feet 
While their woolly mothers 

Watch by them and bleat. 




Rushes in a watery place, 

And reeds in a hollow ; 
A soaring skylark in the sky, 

A darting swallow ; 
And where pale blossom used to hang 

Ripe fruit to follow. 



29 




Minnie and Mattie 
And fat little May, 

Out in the country, 
Spending a day. 

Such a bright day, 

With the sun glowing, 

And the trees half in leaf, 
And the grass growing. 

Pinky white pigling 

Squeals through his snout, 



Woolly white lambkin 
Frisks all about. 

Cluck ! cluck ! the nursing hen 

Summons her folk,- 
Ducklings all downy soft 

Yellow as yolk. 

Cluck ! cluck ! the mother hen 
Summons her chickens 

To peck the dainty bits 
Found in her pickings. 

Minnie and Mattie 

And May carry posies, 

Half of sweet violets, 
Half of primroses. 

Give the sun time enough, 
Glowing and glowing, 

He '11 rouse the roses 

And bring them blowing. 

3* 



Don't wait for roses 

Losing to-day, 
O Minnie, Mattie, 

And wise little May. 

Violets and primroses 
Blossom to-day 

For Minnie and Mattie 
And fat little May. 




Heartsease in my garden bed, 

With sweetwilliam white and red, 
Honeysuckle on my wall : 

J J 

Heartsease blossoms in my heart 
When sweet William comes to call, 

But it withers when we part, 
And the honey-trumpets fall. 

33 




If I were a Queen, 
What would I do ? 

I 'd make you King, 
And I 'd wait on you. 

If I were a King, 

What would I do ? 
I 'd make you Queen. 

J c>J 

For I 'd marry you. 



34 




What are heavy? sea-sand and sorrow : 
What are brief? to-day and to-morrow : 
What are frail ? Spring blossoms and youth : 
What are deep ? the ocean and truth. 



35 



Stroke a flint, and there is nothing to admire : 
.Strike a flint, and forthwith flash out sparks of 
fire. 



pe^^ ^w^- 'v^-v- 1 -; 



Jl; SI : ' 







There is but one May in the year, 

And sometimes May is wet and cold ; 

There is but one May in the year 
Before the year grows old. 

Yet though it be the chilliest May, 

With least of sun and most of showers, 

Its wind and dew, its night and day, 
Bring up the flowers. 

37 




The summer nights are short 
Where northern days are long : 

For hours and hours lark after lark 
Trills out his song. 

The summer days are short 

Where southern nights are long : 

Yet short the night when nightingales 
Trill out their song. 

o 

38 




The days are clear, 

Day after day, 
When April 's here, 

That leads to May, 
And June 
Must follow soon : 

Stay, June, stay !- 
If only we could stop the moon 
And June ! 
39 




M, 



Twist me a crown of wind-flowers ; 

That I may fly away 
To hear the singers at their song, 

And players at their play. 

Put on your crown of wind-flowers : 
But whither would you go ? 

Beyond the surging of the sea 
And the storms that blow. 

Alas ! your crown of wind-flowers 
Can never make you fly : 

I twist them in a crown to-day, 
And to-night they die. 

40 




Brown and furry 

Caterpillar in a hurry, 

Take your walk 

To the shady leaf, or stalk, 

Or what not, 

Which may be the chosen spot. 

No toad spy you, 

Hovering bird of prey pass by you ; 

Spin and die, 

To live again a butterfly. 

41 




A toadstool comes up in a night, 
Learn the lesson, little folk : 

An oak grows on a hundred years, 
But then it is an oak. 




A pocket handkerchief to hem- 
Oh dear, oh dear, oh dear ! 

How many stitches it will take 
Before it 's done, I fear. 



Yet set a stitch and then a stitch, 
And stitch and stitch away, 

Till stitch by stitch the hem is done- 
And after work is play ! 



43 




If a pig wore a wig, 
What could we say ? 

Treat him as a gentleman, 
And say " Good day." 

If his tail chanced to fail, 
What could we do ?- 

Send him to the tailoress 
To get one new. 



44 




Seldom " can't,' 1 
Seldom " don't " ; 

Never " shan't," 
Never " won't. 



45 




I and i are 2- 



That 's for me and you. 

2 and 2 are 4 
That 's a couple more. 

3 and 3 are 6 
Barley-sugar sticks. 

4 and 4 are 8 
Tumblers at the gate. 

5 and 5 are 10 
Bluff seafaring men. 

4 6 



6 and 6 are 12 
Garden lads who delve. 

7 and 7 are 14 

Young men bent on sporting. 

8 and 8 are 16 

Pills the doctor 's mixing. 

9 and 9 are 1 8 
Passengers kept waiting. 

10 and 10 are 20 
Roses pleasant plenty ! 

1 1 and 1 1 are 22 

Sums for brother George to do. 

12 and 1 2 are 24 

Pretty pictures, and no more. 



47 




How many seconds in a minute ? 
Sixty, and no more in it. 

How many minutes in an hour ? 
Sixty for sun and shower. 

How many hours in a day ? 
Twenty-four for work and play. 

4 8 






How many days in a week ? 
Seven both to hear and speak. 

How many weeks in a month ? 
Four, as the swift moon runn'th. 

How many months in a year ? 
Twelve the almanack makes clear. 

How many years in an age ? 
One hundred says the sage. 

How many ages in time ? 
No one knows the rhyme. 



49 





What will you give me for my pound ? 
Full twenty shillings round. 
What will you give me for my shilling ? 
Twelve pence to give I 'm willing. 
What will you give me for my penny ? 
Four farthings, just so many. 




January cold desolate ; 
February all dripping wet ; 
March wind ranges ; 
April changes ; 
Birds sing in tune 

To flowers of May, 
And sunny June 

Brings longest day ; 
In scorched July 

J * 

The storm-clouds fly 
Lightning-torn ; 
August bears corn, 
September fruit ; 



Iii rough October 

o 

Earth must disrobe her ; 
Stars fall and shoot 
In keen November ; 
And night is loi. 
And cold is stro'-g 
In bleak December. 




What is pink ? a rose is pink 

By the fountain's brink. 

What is red ? a poppy 's red 

In its barley bed. 

What is blue ? the sky is blue 

Where the clouds float thro'. 

What is white ? a swan is white 

Sailing in the light. 

What is yellow ? pears are yellow, 

Rich and ripe and mellow. 

53 



What is green ? the grass is green, 
With small flowers between. 
What is violet ? clouds are violet 
In the summer twilight. 
What is orange ? why, an orange, 
Just an orange ! 



54 




Mother shake the cherry-tree, 
Susan catch a cherry ; 

Oh how funny that will be, 
Let 's be merry ! 

One for brother, one for sister, 
Two for mother more, 

Six for father, hot and tired, 
Knocking at the door. 

55 





A pin has a head, but has no hair ; 
A clock has a face, but no mouth there ; 
Needles have eyes, but they cannot see ; 
A fly has a trunk without lock or key ; 
A timepiece may lose, but cannot win ; 
A corn-field dimples without a chin ; 
A hill has no leg, but has a foot ; 
A wine-glass a stem, but not a root ; 



A watch has hands, but no thumb or finger ; 
A boot has a tongue, but is no singer ; 
Rivers run, though they have no feet ; 
A saw has teeth, but it does not eat ; 
Ash-trees have keys, yet never a lock ; 
And baby crows, without being a cock. 





Hopping frog, hop here and be seen, 
I '11 not pelt you with stick or stone : 

Your cap is laced and your coat is green ; 
Good-bye, we '11 let each other alone. 

Plodding toad, plod here and be looked at, 
You the finger of scorn is crooked at : 
But though you 're lumpish, you 're harmless too ; 
You won't hurt me, and I won't hurt you. 

53 




Where innocent bright-eyed daisies are, 
With blades of grass between, 

Each daisy stands up like a star 
Out of a sky of green. 



59 




The city mouse lives in a house ; 
The garden mouse lives in a bower, 

He 's friendly with the frogs and toads, 
And sees the pretty plants in flower. 

The city mouse eats bread and cheese ;- 
The garden mouse eats what he can ; 

We will not grudge him seeds and stalks, 
Poor little timid furry man. 



60 




What does the donkey bray about ? 
What does the pig grunt through his snout ? 
What does the goose mean by a hiss ? 
Oh, Nurse, if you can tell me this, 
I '11 give you such a kiss. 

The cockatoo calls " cockatoo," 
The magpie chatters " how d' ye do ? 
The jackdaw bids me " go away," 
Cuckoo cries " cuckoo ' half the day : 
What do the others say ? 

61 




*fo*&&tf r> '*} 



Three plum buns 

To eat here at the stile 

In the clover meadow, 

For we have walked a mile. 

One for you, and one for me, 

And one left over : 
Give it to the boy who shouts 

To scare sheep from the clover. 

62 




A motherless soli lambkin 

Alone upon a hill ; 
No mother's fleece *o shelter him 
And wrap him from the cold :- 
I '11 run to him and comfort him, 

I '11 fetch him, that I will ; 
I '11 care for him and feed him 
Until he 's strong and bold. 




"7? 



Dancing on the hill-tops, 
Singing in the valleys, 

Laughing with the echoes, 
Merry little Alice. 

Playing games with lambkins 
In the flowering valleys, 

Gathering pretty posies, 
Helpful little Alice. 
6 4 



If her father's cottage 
Turned into a palace, 

And he owned the hill-tops 
And the flowering valleys, 

She 'd be none the happier, 
Happy little Alice. 




When fishes set umbrellas up 
If the rain-drops run, 

Lizards will want their parasols 
To shade them from the sun. 



66 




The peacock has a score of eyes, 
With which he cannot see ; 

The cod-fish has a silent sound, 
However that may be ; 

No dandelions tell the time, 
Although they turn to clocks ; 

Cat's-cradle does not hold the cat, 
Nor foxglove fit the fox. 

67 




Pussy has a whiskered face, 
Kitty has such pretty ways ; 
Doggie scampers when I call, 
And has a heart to love us all 



68 




The dog lies in his kennel, 
And Puss purrs on the rug, 

And baby perches on my knee 
For me to love and hug. 

Pat the dog and stroke the cat, 
Kach in its decree ; 

O ' 

And cuddle and kiss my baby, 
And baby kiss me. 



69 




If hope grew on a bush, 

And joy grew on a tree, 
What a nosegay for the plucking 

There would be ! 

But oh ! in windy autumn, 
When frail flowers wither, 

What should we do for hope and joy, 
Fading together ? 

70 




JTi 



I planted a hand 

And there came up a palm, 
I planted a heart 

And there came up balm. 

Then I planted a wish, 
But there sprang a thorn, 

While heaven frowned with thunder 
And earth sighed forlorn. 




Under the ivy bush 

One sits sighing, 
And under the willow tree 

One sits crying :- 

Under the ivy bush 

Cease from your sighing, 
But under the willow tree 

Lie down a-dying. 



72 



I am a King, 

Or an Emperor rather, 
I wear crown-imperial 

And prince's-feather ; 
Golden-rod is the sceptre 

I wield and wag, " 
And a broad purple flag-flower 

Waves for my flag. 

Elder the pithy 

With old-man and sage, 
These are my councillors 

Green in old age ; 
Lords-and-ladies in silence 

Stand round me and wait, 
While gay ragged-robin 

Makes bows at my gate. 



73 




There is one that has a head without an eye, 
And there 's one that has an eye without a head : 

You may find the answer if you try ; 

And when all is said, 
Half the answer hangs upon a thread ! 



74 







If a mouse could fly, 

Or if a crow could swim, 

Or if a sprat could walk and talk, 
I 'd like to be like him. 

If a mouse could fly, 

He might fly away ; 
Or if a crow could swim, 

It might turn him grey ; 
Or if a sprat could walk and talk, 
What would he find to say ? 



75 




Sing me a song 

What shall I sing ? 

Three merry sisters 
Dancing in a ring, 

Light and fleet upon their feet 
As birds upon the wing. 

Tell me a tale 



What shall I tell ?- 



Two mournful sisters, 

And a tolling knell, 
Tolling ding and tolling dong, 

Ding dong bell. 
76 




The lily has an air, 

And the snowdrop a grace, 
And the sweetpea a way, 

And the heartsease a face,- 

Yet there 's nothing like the rose 

When she blows. 



77 







Margaret has a milking-pail, 

And she rises early ; 
Thomas has a threshing-flail, 

And he 's up betimes. 
Sometimes crossing through the grass 

Where the dew lies pearly, 
They say "Good-morrow" as they pass 
By the leafy limes. 




In the meadow what in the meadow? 
Bluebells, buttercups, meadowsweet, 
And fairy rings for the children's feet 
In the meadow. 

In the garden- -what in the garden ? 
Jacob's-ladder and Solomon's-seal, 
And Love-lies-bleeding beside All-heal 
In the garden. 



79 




A frisky lamb 
And a frisky child 
Playing their pranks 

In a cowslip meadow : 
The sky all blue 
And the air all mild 
And the fields all sun 

And the lanes half shadow. 



80 




Mix a pancake, 
Stir a pancake, 

Pop it in the pan ; 
Fry the pancake, 
Toss the pancake, - 

Catch it if you can. 



Si 




The wind has such a rainy sound 
Moaning through the town, 

The sea has such a windy sound, - 
Will the ships go down ? 

The apples in the orchard 

Tumble from their tree.- 
Oh, will the ships go down, go down, 

In the windy sea ? 

82 




Three little children 

On the wide wide earth, 

Motherless children 

Cared for from their birth 
By tender angels. 

Three little children 
On the wide wide sea, 

Motherless children- 
Safe as safe can be 

With guardian angels. 

83 




'>*,? JHu v ., M 



Fly away, fly away over the sea, 

Sun-loving swallow, for summer is done ; 
Come again, come again, come back to me, 

Bringing the summer and bringing the sun. 



S 4 




Minnie bakes oaten cakes, 

Minnie brews ale, 
All because her Johnny 's coming 

Home from sea. 
And she glows like a rose, 

Who was so pale, 

And " Are you sure the church clock goes ? 
Says she. 




A white hen sitting 

On white eggs three : 
Next, three speckled chickens 

As plump as plump can be. 

An owl, and a hawk, 

And a bat come to see : 
But chicks beneath their mother's wing 

Squat safe as safe can be. 



86 




Currants on a bush, 

And figs upon a stem, 
And cherries on a bending bough, 

And Ned to gather them. 



Playing at bob cherry 

Tom and Nell and Hugh : 

Cherry bob ! cherry bob ! 
There 's a bob for you. 

Tom bobs a cherry 

For gaping snapping Hugh, 
While curly-pated Nelly 

Snaps at it too. 

Look, look, look 

Oh what a sight to see ! 

The wind is playing cherry bob 
With the cherry tree. 



88 




I have but one rose in the world, 
And my one rose stands a-drooplng 

Oh, when my single rose is dead 

There '11 be but thorns for stooping. 



89 




/' 



\ 



Rosy maiden Winifred, 
With a milkpail on her head, 
Tripping through the corn, 

While the dew lies on the wheat 

In the sunny morn. 
Scarlet shepherd's-weatherglass 
Spreads wide open at her feet 

As they pass ; 

Cornflowers give their almond smell 
While she brushes by, 
And a lark sings from the sky 
"All is well." 
90 



Blind from my birth, 

Where flowers are springing 

I sit on earth 

All dark. 

Hark ! hark ! 

A lark is singing, 

His notes are all for me, 

For me his mirth :- 

Till some day I shall see 

Beautiful flowers 

And birds in bowers 

Where all Joy Bells are ringing. 




When the cows come home the milk is coming, 
Honey 's made while the bees are humming ; 
Duck and drake on the rushy lake, 
And the deer live safe in the breezy brake ; 
And timid, funny, brisk little bunny, 
Winks his nose and sits all sunny. 



92 




Roses blushing red and white, 

For delight ; 
Honeysuckle wreaths above, 

For love ; 
Dim sweet-scented heliotrope, 

For hope ; 
Shining lilies tall and straight, 

For royal state ; 
Dusky pansies, let them be 

For memory ; 
With violets of fragrant breath, 

For death. 

93 




" Ding a ding," 
The sweet bells sing, 
And say : 

" Come, all be gay ' 
For a wedding day. 

" Dong a dong," 
The bells sigh long, 
And call : 

" Weep one, weep all 
For a funeral. 

94 




A ring upon her finger, 

Walks the bride, 
With the bridegroom tall and handsome 

At her side. 

A veil upon her forehead, 

Walks the bride, 
With the bridegroom proud and merry 

At her side. 

Fling flowers beneath the footsteps 

Of the bride ; 
Fling flowers before the bridegroom 

At her side. 

95 




" Ferry me across the water, 

Do, boatman, do." 
" If you Ve a penny in your purse 

I '11 ferry you." 

" 1 have a penny in my purse, 
And my eyes are blue ; 

So ferry me across the water, 
Do, boatman, do." 

" Step into my ferry-boat, 

Be they black or blue, 
And for the penny in your purse 

I '11 ferry you." 

96 




When a mounting skylark sings 
In the sunlit summer morn, 

I know that heaven is up on high, 
And on earth are fields of corn. 

But when a nightingale sings 
In the moonlit summer even, 

I know not if earth is merely earth, 
Only that heaven is heaven. 



97 




H 




J-' / 



Who has seen the wind ? 

Neither I nor you : 
But when the leaves hang trembling 

The wind is passing thro'. 

Who has seen the wind ? 

Neither you nor I : 
But when the trees bow down their heads 

The wind is passing by. 



98 








The horses of the sea 
Rear a foaming crest, 

But the horses of the land 
Serve us the best. 

The horses of the land 
Munch corn and clover, 

While the foaming sea-horses 
Toss and turn over. 



99 




sailor, come ashore, 

What have you brought for me ? 
Red coral, white coral, 
Coral from the sea. 

1 did not dig it from the ground, 

Nor pluck it from a tree ; 
Feeble insects made it 
In the stormy sea. 



IOO 




A diamond or a coal ? 

A diamond, if you please : 
Who cares about a clumsy coal 

Beneath the summer trees ? 

A diamond or a coal ? 

A coal, sir, if you please : 
One comes to care about the coal 

What time the waters freeze. 



101 




An emerald is as green as grass ; 

A ruby red as blood ; 
A sapphire shines as blue as heaven ; 

A flint lies in the mud. 

A diamond is a brilliant stone, 
To catch the world's desire ; 

An opal holds a fiery spark ; 
But a flint holds fire. 



IO2 



-V.-x. 




Boats sail on the rivers, 

And ships sail on the seas ; 

But clouds that sail across the sky 
Are prettier far than these. 

There are bridges on the rivers, 

As pretty as you please ; 
But the bow that bridges heaven, 

And overtops the trees, 
And builds a road from earth to sky, 

Is prettier far than these. 



103 




The lily has a smooth stalk, 
Will never hurt your hand ; 

But the rose upon her briar 
Is lady of the land. 

There 's sweetness in an apple tree, 

And profit in the corn ; 
But lady of all beauty 

Is a rose upon a thorn. 

When with moss and honey 
She tips her bending briar, 

And half unfolds her glowing heart, 
She sets the world on fire. 




Hurt no living thing : 

Ladybird, nor butterfly, 
Nor moth with dusty wing, 

Nor cricket chirping cheerily, 
Nor grasshopper so light of leap, 

Nor dancing gnat, nor beetle fat, 
Nor harmless worms that creep. 




I caught a little ladybird 

That flies far away ; 
I caught a little lady wife 

That is both staid and gay. 

Come back, my scarlet ladybird, 

Back from far away ; 
I weary of my dolly wife, 

My wife that cannot play. 

She 's such a senseless wooden thing 
She stares the livelong day ; 

Her wig of gold is stiff and cold 
And cannot change to grey. 

1 06 




All the bells were ringing 
And all the birds were singing, 
When Molly sat down crying 

For her broken doll : 

O you silly Moll ! 
Sobbing and sighing 

For a broken doll, 
When all the bells are ringing, 
And all the birds are singing. 



107 




Wee wee husband, 

Give me some money, 
I have no comfits, 

And I have no honey. 

Wee wee wifie, 

I have no money, 
Milk, nor meat, nor bread to eat, 

Comfits, nor honey. 



1 08 




I have a little husband 

And he is gone to sea, 
The winds that whistle round his ship 

Fly home to me. 

The winds that sigh about me 

Return again to him ; 
So I would fly, if only I 

Were light of limb. 



109 




The dear old woman in the lane 

Is sick and sore with pains and aches, 

We '11 go to her this afternoon, 

And take her tea and eggs and cakes. 

We '11 stop to make the kettle boil, 
And brew some tea, and set the tray, 

And poach an egg, and toast a cake, 
And wheel her chair round, if we may. 



IIO 




Swift and sure the swallow, 
Slow and sure the snail : 

Slow and sure may miss his way, 
Swift and sure may fail. 




(C 



I dreamt I caught a little owl 
And the bird was blue " 



" But you may hunt for ever 
And not find such an one. : 

" I dreamt I set a sunflower, 
And red as blood it grew- 



" But such a sunflower never 
Bloomed beneath the sun.' 



112 




What does the bee do ? 

Bring home honey. 
And what does Father do ? 

Bring home money. 
And what does Mother do ? 

Lay out the money. 
And what does baby do? 

Eat up the honey. 



ii 




I have a Poll parrot, 
And Poll is my doll, 

And my nurse is Polly, 
And my sister Poll. 

"Polly!" cried Polly, 
" Don't tear Polly dolly 
While soft-hearted Poll 
Trembled for the doll. 
114 



i > 




A house of cards 
Is neat and small : 

Shake the table, 
It must fall. 

Find the Court cards 

One by one ; 
Raise it, roof it,- 

Now it 's done :- 
Shake the table ! 

That 's the fun. 




The rose with such a bonny blush, 
What has the rose to blush about ? 

If it 's the sun that makes her flush, 
What 's in the sun to flush about ? 



116 




The rose that blushes rosy red, 
She must hang her head ; 

The lily that blows spotless white, 
She may stand upright. 



117 




Oh, fair to see 
Bloom-laden cherry tree, 

Arrayed in sunny white ; 

An April day's delight, 
Oh, fair to see ! 

Oh, fair to see 

Fruit-laden cherry tree, 
With balls of shining red 
Decking a leafy head, 

Oh, fair to see ! 

118 




Clever little Willie wee, 

Bright-eyed, blue-eyed little fellow ; 
Merry little Margery 

With her hair all yellow. 

Little Willie in his heart 

Is a sailor on the sea, 
And he often cons a chart 

With sister Margery. 



119 




The peach tree on the southern wall 
Has basked so long beneath the sun, 

Her score of peaches great and small 
Bloom rosy, every one. 

A peach for brothers, one for each, 
A peach for you and a peach for me ; 

But the biggest, rosiest, downiest peach 
For Grandmamma with her tea. 



120 







A rose has thorns as well as honey, 
I '11 not have her for love or money ; 
An iris grows so straight and fine, 
That she shall be no friend of mine ; 
Snowdrops like the snow would chill me ; 
Nightshade would caress and kill me ; 
Crocus like a spear would fright me ; 
Dragon's-mouth might bark or bite me ; 
Convolvulus but blooms to die ; 



121 



A wind-flower suggests a sigh ; 
Love-lies-bleeding makes me sad ; 
And poppy-juice would drive me mad 
But give me holly, bold and jolly, 
Honest, prickly, shining holly ; 
Pluck me holly leaf and berry 
For the day when I make merry. 



122 




Is the moon tired ? she looks so pale 
Within her misty veil : 
She scales the sky from east to west, 
And takes no rest. 



Before the coming of the night 
The moon shows papery white ; 
Before the dawning of the day 
She fades away. 




'Jft 



If stars dropped out of heaven, 
And if flowers took their place, 

The sky would still look very fair, 
And fair earth's face. 

Winged angels might fly down to us 

To pluck the stars, 
But we could only long for flowers 

Beyond the cloudy bars. 

124 




" Goodbye in fear, goodbye in sorrow, 

Goodbye, and all in vain, 
Never to meet again, my dear- 

" Never to part again." 
" Goodbye to-day, goodbye to-morrow, 

Goodbye till earth shall wane, 
Never to meet again, my dear- 

" Never to part again." 



125 




If the sun could tell us half 

That he hears and sees, 
Sometimes he would make us laugh, 

Sometimes make us cry : 
Think of all the birds that make 

Homes among the trees ; 
Think of cruel boys who take 
Birds that cannot fly. 



126 




If the moon came from heaven, 

Talking all the way, 
What could she have to tell us, 

And what could she say ? 

"I've seen a hundred pretty things, 
And seen a hundred gay ; 

But only think : I peep by night 
And do not peep by day ! ' 



127 




O Lady Moon, your horns point toward the east 

Shine, be increased ; 
O Lady Moon, your horns point toward the west. 

Wane, be at rest. 



128 




What do the stars do 

Up in the sky, 
Higher than the wind can blow, 

Or the clouds can fly ? 

j 

Each star in its own glory 

Circles, circles still ; 
As it was lit to shine and set, 

And do its Maker's will. 



129 




Motherless baby and babyless mother, 
Bring them together to love one another. 



130 




Crimson curtains round my mother's bed, 

Silken soft as may be ; 
Cool white curtains round about my bed, 

For I am but a baby. 




Baby lies so fast asleep 

That we cannot wake her : 

Will the Angels clad in white 
Fly from heaven to take her ? 

Baby lies so fast asleep 

That no pain can grieve her ; 
Put a snowdrop in her hand, 

Kiss her once and leave her. 



132 




I know a baby, such a baby,- 

Round blue eyes and cheeks of pink, 

Such an elbow furrowed with dimples, 
Such a wrist where creases sink. 

" Cuddle and love me, cuddle and love me, 1 
Crows the mouth of coral pink : 

Oh, the bald head, and, oh, the sweet lips, 
And, oh, the sleepy eyes that wink ! 



133 




Lullaby, oh, lullaby ! 
Flowers are closed and lambs are sleeping ; 

Lullaby, oh, lullaby ! 
Stars are up, the moon is peeping ; 

Lullaby, oh, lullaby ! 
While the birds are silence keeping, 

(Lullaby, oh, lullaby !) 
Sleep, my baby, fall a-sleeping, 

Lullaby, oh, lullaby ! 






134 




Lie a-bed, 

Sleepy head, 

Shut up eyes, bo-peep ; 

Till daybreak 

Never wake : 

Baby, sleep. 


If my young reader have already visited Fairy dell  Hall and passed a few merry hours with Know a bit the learned fay it is quite a natural  thing that an introduction to Fairy Frisket  should follow I need explain to no one where these  fairies have come from whether they lurk in flower  or book or only in some quiet little nook in the brain  of A L 0 E My reader will scarcely expect in his  walks to see either Knowabit or Frisket spring from  under a fern leaf or sit rocking on a hawthorn spray  but he may and very probably will meet some other of  the curious creatures described in my little book It  is as well to mention that my own knowledge of the  manners and customs of the insects both winged and  wingless herein described has been chiefly drawn from  Knights Library of Entertaining Knowledge and  Woods delightful Homes without Hands  As for the two human specimens in the story the  selfish and the unselfish the boy who cared for his own  pleasure only the other who eared for the comfort of  others they may be found in thousands of homes in our  land they especially the first are common enough  in Britain however rare fairies may be If some  spoilt little master have received this small volume  amongst other Christmas or New Year presents I hope  that he may have patience to read it to the end and  before he closes the book consider whether he would  wish to pass all his days on a nettleleaf of selfishness  or whether he would not rather by his deeds his  words and his example show that he has undergone  a nobler change than that which transforms the creeping  caterpillar into a creature of light and beauty  A L O E  I  THE FAIRYS VISIT  9  XI  PAIBY CONVBRSK  17  UI  INTO THE WOODS  80  IV  THE ANTHILL  38  V  AMAZONS  49  VI  THE fairys 0PER  68  VIL  FOlLAOINOANTS  65  vnL  FEISKET EXPLORING  77  nt  THE BRUSH AND THE WAND  85  X  INSIDE THE CITY  94  XI  THE ANTLION  102  XIL  blaOk spots  107  xm  THE doctors visit  119  xlv  ID BE A BUTTERFLY  126  XV  BUTTERFLIES MEETING  139  XVI  ADVENTURES OF A CATERPILLAR  163  xvn  BORERS WEAVERS AND LEAFROLLERS  160  XVIII  THE LIFE OP A BUTTERFLY  106  XIX  A FRIEND IN NEED  176  XX  THE fairys MISTAKE  188  FAIRY FRISKET  CHAPTER I  THE fairys visit  ARAH careless Sarah theres not a doubt of the  fact you quite forgot to shut the window of  Squire Philimores study last evening and to  close the shutters and put up the bar and  anybody that might take a fancy to get into  the house could do so with ease The squire is fast  asleep in his big bed dreaming of hounds and hunting  and Master Philibert fast asleep in his little bed and  all the servants in their different rooms and so sound  is their slumber that they would not awake if any one  were to rattle a drum in the study  But that which comes in through the open window  into the study causes no noise at least none that the  sharpest ear would hear First there comes the soft  nightbreeze stealing very gently so gently that it  does not make even the papers on the table rustle and  scarcely swells the curtain at all Then there comes the  beautiful moonlight laying along the floor what looks  like a strip of silver carpet with the shadow of the  latticed windowbars forming the pattern upon it And  there is something besides this something softer than  the breeze and fairer even than the moonlight A  pretty little fairy is perched on the windowsill looking  into the room She is scarcely more than five inches in  height so small that she might lie at full length in a  ladys silken slipper and find it a comfortable sofa and  a girl might wear as a ring the slender gold belt which  girdles the waist of the fairy A wreath of tiniest  heatherbells encircles her hair if that can be called  hair which is so fine that it hangs over the fairys  shoulders like a golden mist which the puff of a childs  breath could set floating upon the air The little ladys  dress is formed of petals of the blushrose fashioned by  fairy fingers with a light robe of gossamer over it such  as lies on the grass on summer mornings all fringed  with diamond dewdrops A violet would be large  enough to cover the print of the fairys footstep if that  tiny white foot ever left which it does not the lightest  trace behind The wings that spread at the fairys back  are such as the dragonfly wears they are transparent  as glass and as they quiver in the silvery rays appear  to be tinted with every hue in the rainbow The light  which comes streaming in behind the fairy throws no  shadow of her figure upon the sill she seems herself as  light as the moonbeams The wand in her tiny hand  golden at one end green at the other is not much thicker  than a horsehair and the bag which hangs from the  fairys girdle looks exactly like one of the violetvelvet  petals of a heart sease sprinkled over with golddust  In short Fairy Frisket as she stands in the moonshine  peering curiously into the halfdark study is as lovely an  object to look on as any mortal could wish to behold  This must be the place that I heard of but oh  what a den for a fairy to hide in cried Frisket in a  voice high and shrill as the chirp of a cricket but sweet  as the nightbirds song Knowabit Knowabit  show a bit show a bit After four hundred years spent  apart let brother and sister meet once again 1  And at the silvery call up sprang from a large red  edged volume which lay on the ledge of a bookcase a  tiny form being that of a bearded fairy dressed in cap  and gown as a student and with a minute pair of gold  spectacles resting upon his small nose Some of my  readers may already have been introduced to the learned  fay Knowabit and have heard of his doings at Fairy  dell Hall where he had lived amongst books and papers  ever since the invention of printing  No sooner did Knowabit catch sight of Frisket than  with an exclamation of pleasure he made a bound like  a cricket towards her while she flew like a butterfly  towards him and the brother and sister embraced in  the air as fondly as brother and sister should do whirling  round and round in their joy at meeting as two feathers  might whirl round in a gale Then they alighted on  the squires silver inkstand which stood in the middle  of his table and gazed upon one another to see if ages  had wrought any change upon either  Four or five hundred years is of course no great  length of time to a fairy and yet it was clear from  Friskets face that she did see a change in her brother  and a change that did not please her at all With  manner rather too brusque for a lady to say nothing of  a fairy Frisket suddenly cried Whats this darted  at Knowabit s spectacles and pulled them ofi from his  nose She then held them between her finger and  thumb and looked at them as you dear reader might  look at a slug if found in your teacup  Whats this repeated Frisket and what can  possibly be its use   These are my spectacles sister and I use them to  read books with replied Knowabit with dignity as  he pointed towards the wellfilled shelves of the squires  library   Books repeated Frisket scornfully Rusty  fusty musty dusty Better far that you should throw  away these spectacles as you call them and that odd  dress with which I suppose you are mimicking man  Why I do believe that youve crushed down your wings  under that black gown When was black ever worn  before by a fairy   I confess replied Knowabit mildly that I have  adopted some of the ways of mankind I suppose from  living hundreds of years under a roof I have had so little  use for my wings that I have not spread them since the  death of Queen Bess and scarcely remember that I  possess them I can bound very well from place to  place without them   Ay in a tootyi exclaimed Frisket with scorn   You choose spectacles instead of free wings books  instead of leaves and mosses and ferns and flowers  You like to hear the mouse squeaking behind the old  wainscot instead of the lark singing in the air   You would rather have me sing said Knowabit  breaking out into song   Where the bee sucks there lurk I  In a cowslips bell I lie  There I couch when owls do cry  On a bats back do I fly  After sunset merrily  Merrily merrily shall I live now  Under the blossom that hangs on the bough   Yes said Frisket more quietly that is a true  fairy song   Yet it was written by a man observed Knowarbit   Ay look as much surprised as you please but it was  certainly written by old Will Shakespeare whose bust  you see there at the top of the bookcase   How could a man a son of earth a beefeating crea  ture know anything about fairies cried Frisket   And what does a fairy a child of air a dewsipping  creature know about men asked Knowabit smiling   Has my fair sister ever so much as heard the voice of  one of the race   I know enough of them to dislike them cried  Frisket and I dont care to know anything more   Sister sister is not that prejudice Is not that  judging without knowledge Suppose that instead of  quivering your wings so scornfully and looking as if  you thought the squires mahogany table scarcely fit to  set your little foot upon you were to give back to me  my glasses and we two were to take our seats on this  silver inkstand and talk over the matter quietly to  gether Would not that be better than disputing on  the first night of our meeting Perhaps you may find  that the human race with all its faults is not to be  despised even by a fairy  Frisket could not help looking up to her brother I  do not mean because he was much taller than herself  by at least the breadth of a mans thumb but because  he had a calmer judgment a more thoughtful mind  Knowabit had learned a good deal from his favourite  books and had perhaps made as good use of his spectacles  as Frisket had of her wings The ladyfairy closed those  glassy wings which folded neatly behind her back  restored the tiny spectacles to their owner and sat down  as her brother had proposed upon the silver top of one  of Squire Philiraores inkbottles while Knowabit rested  on the other the box to hold stamps being between  them The two fairies looked like ornamental figmes of  Wisdom and Mirth adorning the inkstand but Wisdom  was smiling and Mirth had somethiig of thought on her  bright little face The squires comfortable study seemed  like a prison to Fairy Frisket and it is scarcely to be  wondered at that she felt the top of the inkbottle a far  less agreeable seat than a clump of green moss or a  downlined nest or the petals of a fragrant mossrose  CHAPTER 11  FAIRY CONVERSE  fRISKET And now tell me Brother Fay what  you can find in men or their works so charm  ing as to make you desert the green woods  What joy can there be in this dull den with  its dusty piles of books to compare with that  of tripping it over the grass rocking in the breeze on a  trembling aspen or watching the bees plundering the  flowers of golden pollen the spider spinning her silver  thread or the butterfly basking her wings in the sun  shine  Knowahit I might say that I learn much from  these books of the wonders of Nature in other lands  where the butterflies wings are brighter and the flowers  fairer than here in Old England But I will own to  you Sister Fay that I take pleasure in learning some  thing of the ways and doings and in studying the char  acters of human beings men and boys  Fiket Huge heavy gluttonous creatures that  actually prey upon sheep and oxen and kill them for  food How honid  Kumvabit Do not look so much shocked at the  idea I do not see that it is worse in men to kill sheep  and oxen for food than it is for your friends the spiders  to kill flies The bigger creature needs the bigger prey  and feeds according to its nature Philibert Philimore  the squires fat boy cannot dine as you might on a  drop of sweet juice The scent of the sweetest violets  will not supply him with flesh blood and bones He  would starve upon dew and as for making a breakfast  upon pollen I should like to see his face if such a thing  were proposed  Frisket Yes From what I hear these wretched  human beings are full of all kinds of wants A leafy  bough is a home for me I can feast on the honey in a  flower and then make me a robe of its petals If I  choose to fly higher than my wings will bear me I perch  on the back of a lark and enjoy its music as well as my  ride as I mount up into the sky If it rain I can  shelter me under a mushroom and if I require a light  on a starless night every glowworm is pleased to lend  me his pretty green lamp But mortals cannot be con  tented with pleasures so simple as these They cannot  sleep without a huge house above them nor dress nor  eat nor move from one place to another without such  worry and scurry such scanning and planning such  moiling and toiling as seems terrible to a fairy  KnowOrbit Man is indeed a frail creature full as  you say of all kinds of wants But there is to me  something grand in that wonderful gift of reason which  enables him to supply every one of these wants  Frisket Man cannot fly like a bird nor run like a  hare and if he dare venture into the water at all the  tiniest fish in the brook can excel him in diving and  swimming  KnowOrbit And yet observe how man makes up by  the powers of his mind for all his imperfections of body  He cannot fly indeed for Nature has not supplied him  with wings j but if he choose to mount above the clouds  he forms a huge ball which he calls a balloon and darts  up higher than eagle can fly He has no fins hke a fish  to swim with but man gets wood to float and iron to  swim and fire and water to work his will and his ships  in a long race round the globe would beat any fish in  the ocean If man takes a fancy to dive he dives in a  bell as he cannot hve without air he cleverly carries  down air to the very bottom of the sea Man needs  food of all sorts and he gets all sorts The leaf from  this land and the berry from that the birds and the  beasts the insects and fish he makes all supply his  table Man requires clothing and finds it on all sides  he takes the wool of the sheep the hair of the goat the  fur of the rabbit the skin of the mole the feather of the  ostrich the silk of the worm all he prepares with  wonderful skill to make his curious garments Nor is  this suflScient for man England is not warm enough  for the gTowth of cotton a white down held in the  LEAVES TXOWER AND FRUIT OF THE COTTON PLANT  seedvessel of a yellow flower Hills of this down are  brought in shiploads from fardistant lands in the East  and the West and in a single year enough of it is woven  ill England to cover if needed half the county of York  shire with its towns and churches its fields and farms  and much more than half a million of people Truly man  is a wondrous creature and reason is a marvellous gift  Frisket But man is full of faults as well as of wants  Sad stories of his wicked doings have reached even the  fairies Though the least scratch upon his skin gives  him pain it seems to be his delight to give pain Man  flogs his horses he beats his dogs he hunts the hare he  shoots the bird and even boys horrible to tell will  rob the poor linnets nest and torment the beautiful  winged insects that fall into their merciless hands  Knowahit I fear that this alas is too true I  often wonder how those who so easily suffer themselves  can bear to make innocent creatures suffer But if I re  member rightly fair sister even you yourself carry in your  bag a little brush fashioned of waspstings a touch from  which would make any boy in England start and wince  Frisket I certainly own such a brush but I never  wantonly use my weapon No fairy would ever be  cruel I do but keep the saucy hornets at bay when  they come buzzing about me and I warn off the great  elephantbeetles when they poke their rude horns into  my leafy bower  KnoiVOrhit You remind me of the song   You spotted BTiakea with double tongue  Thorny hedgehogs be not seen  Newts and blindworms do no wrong  Come not near our fairyqueen  Philomel with melody  Singing her sweet lullfiby  Never harm nor spell nor charm  Come our lovely lady nigh  So goodnight with lullaby  Weaving spiders come not near  Hence you longlegged spinners hence  Beetles black approach not near  Worm nor snail do no offence  Philomel with melody c  Theres Will Shakespeares poetry for you again 1  FriaJcet Were it not for that bust up yonder I should  say that Will Shakespeare as you call him must have  been a fair himself  Knowabit laughing You would not have thought  so had you seen him as I did more than two hundred  and seventy years ago in the days of Queen Bess when  he came to this very house on a visit Shakespeare was  a man with a large forehead and a bright keen eye and  a mind brimming over with wit Nothing of a fairy  was he Will Shakespeare was a muttoneating and a  beefeating and a beerdrinking creature there could  be no mistake about that He used to write in this  very room some of the works wliich fill half the laige  l30oks on yon shelf while I sat on his shoulder watching  his pen for his fairywand was a goosequill  Fiket He must have been one whom even fames  would have liked to see I suspect brother Knowabit  that you whispered those fairy songs into his ear  KnowOrbit No they were all Shakespeares own  every word I had not then found out the spell which  has cost me hundreds of years of study by which I can  make myself visible and my voice audible at pleasure  to any of the race of mankind  Frisket Is that a secret which I may know  Knowahit The secret lies in this little tassel which  hangs as you see from my cap When I pull it thus  I can be seen and heard by whomsoever I will I be  lieve that I am the first fairy who ever possessed such  a charm  Fiisket Had I such a chaim I never would use it  I might indeed like to examine man s curious works  and peep into his amusing books that is if I could  take the trouble of learning the ait of reading but  with man himself I should not care to have anything  to do  Knoiuabit Now it seems to me that man is a more  curious and interesting study than any of his works or  any of his writings There is such wonderful difference  between human beings such strange variety in their  characters and their conduct For instance there are  two boys now asleep under this roof Philibert Philimore  the son of the squire and Sydney Pierce his young  guest Never were two beings less alike though both  feed upon mutton and beef The first is always thinking  of self the second always thinking of others The one  is discontented in the midst of luxury the other pleased  with whatever he gets Philibert is illtempered and  peevish while I never yet have heard Sydney utter so  much as a hasty word  FHslcet You surprise me brother Knowablt I  thought that all human beings were inclined to do and  to speak what is wrong that their very nature is to  fall into folly and error just as it is the nature of their  poor weak bodies to fall down if not supported as it is  their nature to need food and sleep and after a little  while to die  Knowahit But just as man seems bom to struggle  against the bodily weakness of his nature to make up  by his wondrous inventions for the want of wings and  fins and claws the lions strength and the deers swift  ness so in some of the race there seems to be a constant  struggle and victory over self There is to me something  very grand and very glorious about such a struggle  Frisket I do not understand what you mean I sup  pose because I am a fairy and have never any trouble  at all  Knowabit I will explain by means of examples  A poor man named Garland who lives at no great dis  tance from Fairydell Hall saw some months since an  idiot boy drowning in a stream Garland plunged in at  once to rescue the child he risked shortening his own  little term of life in ordr to save one who had not even  the power to thank him Here was a struggle and a  victory over cowardly self Garland caught then a  terrible cold on his chest and suffered as mortals only  can suffer He lost his strength for work by day he  lost his rest by night he lost the power to gain bread  for his wife and six children and yet this poor sufferer  never lost his temper never as I have heard uttered  one word of complaint Here was a struggle and a  victory over impatient self Man is a grand being when  he forces earth air water and fire to obey his will and  do his bidding but he is a nobler creature by far when  mastering fear and temper and pain conquering self  rising above his own weakness bearing what nature will  not willingly bear doing what nature will not will  ingly do  Frisket Did not his fellowmortals help Garland as  he had helped the drowning child  KnoWObit Hear the end of my story Frisket The  two boys Philibert and Sydney had each one piece of  yellow gold Now the human race have a curious power  of turning silver and gold into all kinds of things which  they fericy even huge things like cows or even houses  FHsket Whats that whats that you amaze me  Men must have very wonderful wands  Knowahit smiling Men do not make these changes  by the touch of a wand like fairies but by a very  commonplace arrangement which they call buying a  thing never known in fairyland nor amongst any crea  tures except those that are human But to return to my  story Philibert Philimore turned his bit of gold into  toys and sweets for himself Sydney Pierce turned his  bit of gold into comforts for poor Will Garland Sweets  and toys would have been as pleasant to Sydney as they  were to his young companion but the boy like the  man whom he helped had a struggle and victory over self  When I see selfdenial like this selfdenial which we  children of air never can practise mortals shortlived  weak subject to pain and ready to fall as they are seem  to me to be grander nobler happier beings than fairies  Finsket I should like to reward that Sydney I  should like to stir his cup and touch his eyelids with  the end of my wand for  The gilded rod of fairy wood  Gives sweetest taste to oommon food  Makes everything look fair and good  Knowabit You would need to be careful which end  of your wand you used for if I remember rightly fair  sister the green end has a very different effect  Frisket  It gives to food a bitter taste  Makes things look crooked and misplaced  And where it touches spots are traced  Laughing Perhaps Master Philibeit Philimore may one  day have a little rap from that end of my wand or a  touch from my tiny stingbrush to improve his manners  KnoWdhit What does Frisket then think of leav  ing her darling green woods to give as I do lessons to  mortals in a dwelling  Frisket Lessons you never told me that these two  boys had you for their fairyteacher  Knowdbit Philibert and Sydney come each mom  into this study and through the power of my wand I  show them many a wondrous sight in a fairymirror  Flasket Why in this dull close study Why not  in the free green woods Why not take them into the  nest of the bird on the bough the cave of the mole under  giound Why not show them the wonders of Nature  in Natures own quiet retreats  Knowahit That is to me quite a new idea but I  see a little difficulty in carrying it out These boys are  hampered with bodies a great deal too heavy and a great  deal too large to mount into nests and to dive into holes  to creep where a caterpillar creeps or to soar where a  butterfly soars  Frislcet Oh those huge heavy meatfed bodies would  be much in the way I own but I know a remedy for the  difficulty Pulls out of her bag a little box about the  size of a mustard seed This is a box of fancy pomatum  the newest invention in fairyland The tiniest particle  rubbed on the temples gives the mind power for one  single hour to inhabit the body of any creature recently  killed to understand its language and to enter its home  Through the charm of that fancy pomatum the boys  whom you love to teach may buzz through a hive as  bees or roam through underground passages as ants or  bury themselves like beetles or fly through the air as  gnats This is a gift and a choice gift it is from  fairy sister to fairy brother on their first meeting after  a separation of four hundred years  KnowOrhit I am surprised and delighted with your  curious gift but what can I offer in return Accept  the tassel from my cap which will give you the power  to appear and to speak when you will to mortals  Ftisket Nay I cannot rob you of that which has  cost you ages of study to form  Knowabit All the difficulty was to discover how  to form the charm I cari multiply the tassels at my  pleasure and have another at the top of yon bookcase  hidden in the ear of Shakespeares bust  Frisket Such being the case I gladly accept your  gift dear brother though little likely ever to use it I  intend to see these two boys Philibert and Sydney but  never to let them see me I intend to listen to their  words but never to let them listen to mine If I stir  their cups they shall never know what makes the con  tents seem bitter or sweei If I touch their eyelids  they never shall guess what makes aU things bright  with fairy beauty or ugly crooked and dark I will  acquaint myself with mortals but mortals shall not  make acquaintance with me I want to know more of  these strange beings so strong in their weakness in  their power of selfconquering so great whose little life  seems to be a struggle against want pain sorrow and  evil but who when they rise triumphant above all are  greater and nobler than creatures like us who have  nothing but ease and enjoyment  CHAPTER III  INTO THE WOODS  I T was of course a great pleasure to Knowabit  to meet again with his faiiy sister and seeing  Frisket revived his love for the greenwood in   which he had sported in olden times dancing  under the beechtrees by moonlight It was not  difficult therefore for Frisket to persuade her brother to  leave for awhile his study and his books and to wander  with her in the free air with nothing between them and  the glorious stars  But really brother before we start we must look  after your wings cried Frisket How funny you  appear in that black robe of yours which I am sure that  you must have dyed in the squires inkbottle You are  hardly fit to be seen amongst fairies Allow me to  examine your shoulders perhaps a little slit in your  dress would let out your wings Ah here they are  sure enough Ive in my bag the jaw of a rosecutter  bee which I use for slitting and shaping the petals  which I sew up again with silk from the web of the  spider Almost before Knowabit was aware of what  his sister was about she had cut two long holes in the  back of his dress  Ah that looks a little more fairylike exclaimed  Frisket when with tiny fingers which could hardly have  spanned a filbert she had pulled out one after the other  two wings glossy like her own but not nearly so bright  nor so ready to quiver and glance Indeed if I may  venture to say it they looked crumpled like a ladys  dress that has been untidily folded and then left in a  drawer for years Give them a shake a good hearty  shake exclaimed Frisket they are none the brighter  or the better for not having been used since the days of  Queen Bess   Yes it is a curious fact observed the philosopher  Knowabit that all creatures are apt to lose any  faculty which they suffer for long to lie idle Now that  I am going abroad I must rub up the art of flying or  he added laughing I may have to take like mortals  to a coach or a railwaycarriage at last  Knowabit had not yet lost the use of his wirigs  though they felt at first wonderfully stiff He had to  fly two or three times round the study to get them into  good play before attempting a longer excursion In the  meantime Frisket replaced in her violet bag the sharp  jaw of the rosecutter bee which was to the fairy what  a pair of scissors is to a lady and then fastened to her  girdle the curious tassel which had been the gift of her  brother   Now I am all ready for a start V cried Knowabit  flying down from Shakespeares bust where he had rested  for a second or two upon the broad bald forehead of the  poet after pulling the second tassel out of its hiding  place in his ear   Just pull off your spectacles then ciied Frisket   spectacles look as odd on the nose of a faiiy as they  would on the beak of a sparrow  So Knowabit popped his tiny gold spectacles into a  little pocket which he had in his dress and merrily  enough the two fairies flew away through the open  yindow towards the leafy woods which surrounded the  IlaU  A great disappointment was in store for Philibert and  his young guest when they came as usual into the study  on the following morning to meet their fairy friend and  see the wonders worked by his wand Philibert in his  blue velvet dress strutted in first followed by Sydney  in his plain brown stuff one the squires son impatient  for amusement the widows son eager for knowledge  Philibert went up straight to the large rededged  volume in which Knowabit for many years had dwelt  and gave three taps upon it with his fat knuckles as we  rap with the knocker upon a door to ask Is any one at  home Philibert expected the learned fairy to answer  his knock but never a fairy saw he   Why Sydney what ever has become of Knowabit  exclaimed the boy in vexation Try if you can manage  to make the lazy little fellow come out  PHILIBERT AND THK BOOK  Sydney thrice gently tapped the big book but Kjiow  abit was not to be seen  Ill make him attend cried Philibert ready to  stamp with impatience He slapped the book he banged  the book he snatched it up and shook it and then with  a burst of illtemper threw it down on the floor Sydney  quietly picked it up and smoothed the leaves doubled  up by the fall  I am afraid that our kind fairy is tired of us  observed Sydney  Then Im sure that Im tired of the fairy cried  Philibert who like many other selfish people let the  first pause in the kindness of a friend take away all  gratitude for past favours  Sydney was perhaps more disappointed than was  Philibert Philimore for young Pierce had been eager to  question Knowabit on some subjects in natural history   a study of which the boy was exceedingly fond  However Sydney knew that it would be foolish to fret  and wrong to be angry so he only observed as he re  placed the volume on the ledge of the bookcase Per  haps we are meant to find out that though we cannot  have a fairy any longer to teach us we may get a fairys  knowledge out of a book and we may prize the know  ledge all the more if it cost us a little trouble   I hate trouble and I cant bear reading cried lazy  Philibert If this tiresome fairy has taken himself off  he might have been civil enough to have given us notice  yesterday wed better go into the wood and amuse our  selves there till Mary has got breakfast ready Lets  see how the workmen are getting on with papas fine  new summerhouse under the oak  INTO THE WOODS 35  What a delightful old house this is exclaimed  Sydney as the two boys sauntered out together Your  father was telling me yesterday that part of it the part  where the study is was built before the Wars of the  Roses only think what a long time ago The squire  said that Fairjdell Hall has stood so long because in  troublous times walls were made so thick and strong in  case of attack In these days he told me the moat  round the house was full of water not of grass and  shrubs as it is now and there was a bridge over it  that could be drawn up by pulleys so that no one could  pass over the moat without the leave of the master of  Fairydell Hall How strange it must have been to have  lived in those rough old days   They wouldnt have done for you said Philibert  Philimore you are such a weak little chap youd  have been no use in defending a castle Strong jolly  fellows were wanted then not those that needed coddling  and stuffing with codliver oil  Sydney felt the words of his companion to be incon  siderate if not unkind It was no fault of young  Pierces that his health was delicate and his strength  small He had seen enough of the squires fat little  son to know that though Philibert might be far the  stronger of the two if it came to a question of courage  the weaker frame might hold the firmer spirit Sydney  however said nothing in reply but amused himself  with looking up at the strong gateway with the red msl  stain on the stone marking where the portcullis had hung  The portcullis was an iron grating which could be let  down suddenly to stop the entrance of a foe The port  cullis itself like the movable bridge over the moat was  gone now that there was no longer fear of danger a  firm broad bridge had replaced the one and all that re  mained to tell of the other was the rustmark and the  holes in the stone where the iron supports had been  fixed It amused Sydney however in fancy to recall  the past as he glanced up at the massive gateway and  the slits in the wall through which archers sent forth  their arrows against unwelcome intruders long before  guns had been invented   And then to think of Shakespeare himself having  passed under this very arch exclaimed Sydney Ive  thought this noble old place twice as interesting since  hearing of his having paid it a visit   I daresay that youve never read a line out of those  big books with his name on the back of them observed  Philibert as the two boys went on their way down the  green velvety slope which led into the wood   My mother has read to me bits out of Shakespeare   beautiful bits about Mercy being twice blessed and  about vaulting Ambition that oerleaps himself and  falls on tother side And oh now that were amongst  these splendid old trees with their trunks all knotted  and gnarled and the green moss over their great strag  gling roots it seems just the place to sing Shakespeares  song perhaps he made it just here And the joyous  ness of Sydneys heart broke out into music   Under the greenwood tree  Who loves to lie with me  And tune his merry throat  Unto the sweet birds note  Come hither come hither  Here shall he see  No enemy  But winter and rough weather  CHAPTER IV  THE ANTHILL  OME on Sydney will you what are you stop  ping to stare at cried Philibert Philimore   An anthill Oh how curious it is to  look at the little hillock all alive with busy  creatures How they swaim and how active  and lively they are Theres one ant dragging a great  bit of twig I mean great for so tiny a creature to  manage and he cant manage it poor little fellow  Hell leave it hell give up the task No no just  see he has gone up to another ant hes tapping him  with his feelers I daresay thats his way of saying   Please old boy come and help me Oh what fun  there they both are at the twig a long pull and a strong  pull and a pull all together Well done little ants  well done I am sure you work with a will   Horrid ugly little brutes I cant think how you  are so stupid as to care to watch them cried Phili  bert Im sure theres nothing worth seeing in an  anthilL  That is the eonclusion of ignoiance said a bird  like voice from the branch of an old oak which spread  over the green woodland path Philibert and Sydney  both started and looked upwards and whom should  they see seated upon a twig but their learned friend  Knowabit the fairy He looked much as he had done  when the boys had last met him in the study except  that his spectacles had disappeared and that a pair of  long dragonfly wings were folded behind him Sydney  was SO glad to see his fairy again that he uttered an  exclamation of joy   Man continued the fairy is proud of his fine build  ings his grand works of art the houses which he raises  by the help of numberless tools the hammer saw  trowel and axe the crane and the pulley the lever and  the wheel Those little insects which you have the  folly to scorn with no tools but those with which nature  supplies them scoop out long passages and deep tunnels  and raise buildings story upon story buildings which  are far more wonderful and grand in proportion to the  size of the little workers than St Pauls or Westminster  Abbey or the great Egyptian Pyramid itself  You dont mean that wretched anthill cried Phili  bert   I more especially speak of the labours of the white  ant or termite an insect related to the dragonflies and  mayflies rather than to the rustybrown little workers  before you In Africa these builders raise nests that are  sometimes twenty feet in height and so strong that the  wild bull can stand on the top to look out if danger be  near   What a famous anthill that must be exclaimed  Philibert why this little heap of twigs and withered  grass would not support a cat   Pray Mr Fairy tell us more of these curious white  ants and their habits said Sydney   The gigantic nests of these termites observed  Knowabit are each like a populous city with its  palacecell for king and queen in the middle and rooms  round it for their guards and attendants who are always  in waiting These rooms are joined to magazines formed  to hold provisions which look like raspings of wood and  plants but which principally consist of gums and sugar  Near these are the nurseries   Nurseries 1 intenupted Philibert what kind of  creatures are babyants do they wear bibs or pina  fores  Not exactly replied the fairy Ants first ap  pear in the shape of tiny eggs of which there will some  times be as many as eighty thousand in an anthill  From these eggs come little white pupae which are care  fully tended or educated as we may call it by nursing  ants until they are able to take care of themselves   These are the boys and girls of the antcity I sup  pose said Sydney But what are the king and  queen like Do they wear splendid colours to show  their rank   They are rather distinguished by size than by colour  answered the fairy The king of the termites is about  twice as large as one of his soldiers and ten times as  large as a labouring ant   How funny it would be if there were such difier  ences between human beings cried Philibert if  King George haxi been twice as big as the Duke of Wel  lington and ten times as big as his gardener   He would have been a great king indeed observed  Sydney and both boys burst into a merry laugh   Size is not the kings only distinction continued  the fairy in his perfect state he has four laige brown  ish transparent wings but they adorn his majesty for  but a few hours   We may call them his robes of state observed Syd  ney which he has very soon to put off   To die added the fairy   I suppose that the queen whiteant is not nearly so  big as the king as she is the lady said PhUibert   Nay there you are greatly mistaken said the fairy   In the hill of the termites as in the hive of the bee the  queen the great mother is by far the most important  person in the state and the whiteant queen at one  period of her life is of size quite enormous compared to  her subjects She is thousands of times as big as one  of the labouring ants and so large that it is quite im  possible for her to get through the doorway of the cell  which she had entered when comparatively small so  that her palace is also her prison The queen like the  king has for a short period wings or robes of state  as we call them but this is before her great increase  in size   You mentioned soldiers Mr Fairy said Sydney   pray do the king and queen of these termites keep a  standing army of ants   A regular standing army of warriors of about the  size of earwigs who have nothing to do but  to fight Their weapons are powerful jaws  protruding from very large heads and with  these they can inflict very severe bitea If  part of the wall of their city be broken down  out rush the bold soldiers to defend the breach  ready to attack any invader while the la  bourers who have no fancy for fighting take refuge  within   Like the women keeping safe in a castle while the  men are defending the walls observed Sydney   So stanch is th courage of the soldiers said  Knowabit that sooner than quit their  hold on an enemy they will suffer them  selves to be pulled limb from limb   Well done little heroes cried Sydney   When the fight is over continued the  fairy the soldiers leave to the labourers  all the trouble of repairing the walls as  they had done that of building them No  soldier termite will deign to lift a burden nor so much  as look after one of the babyants   Then I should say that except in time of war these  big soldiers are useless fellows observed Philibert   Therefore in the beautiful arrangement of nature  an anthill contains but one soldier to qbout a hundred  workers said Knowabit   I dont think that we have sa much as one soldier  to a hundred other people remarked Sydney   These termites are very curious creatures but I sup  pose that they are very useless ones said Philiberi   They are of exactly the same kind of use to the  Africans as your father s pheasants and hares are to  you   You dont mean to say that any one eats them  cried the fat little boy with a look of disgust Id  rather starve than dine upon ants 1   Whiteants are not only eaten but they are con  sidered by the Africans a delicate dainty said Knowa  bit They have been compared in taste to sugared  marrow also to sweetened cream and paste made of  almonds  Philibert opened his eyes very wide on hearing this  and began to think that a dish of termites might be no  such bad thing after all  CHAPTER V  AMAZONS   RE there many other kinds of curious ants  inquired Sydney   There is a great variety of ants both  foreign and British answered the fairy   We have the dusky the brown the yel  low and the woodant on which you are looking now  and which is commonly called the pismire But in  other parts of the world are found many other remaik  able species amongst them the amazonants which have  the curious distinction of being a kind that capture and  keep black slaves   Oh the naughty cruel little creatures 1 exclaimed  Sydney who had a vivid recollection of what he had  heard from his mother of the horrors of the slavetrade  as practised by men  Insects can scarcely be called naughty or cruel  observed the fairy when acting according to the in  stinct which Nature has planted within them  Piay let us hear something about these amazons  and their slavecatching said Philibert Philimore Did  you ever see them about it   No for I have never myself been out of England  Knowabit replied my wings fairy wings though  they be will not carry me so far as railways and  steamers will carry human beings   You might ask some traveller to pack you up in his  hatbox said Philibert  Sydney observed that the little fairy looked rather  angry at such an impertinent joke and turned the con  versation by saying I suppose that these amazonants  live near the Amazon river the biggest river in the  world which flows in South America   No replied Fairy Knowabit The amazonants  are nearer neighbours they are found on the continent  of Europe though not I believe in this island A great  naturalist called Huber had the opportunity of watch  ing an army of amazons or as he calls them legionary  ants near the Lake of Geneva in the country of Switzer  land on a slavecapturing expedition  And what did he see asked Philibert  Between the hours of four and five on the after  noon of a summer s day Huber saw a column of large  ironbrown coloured ants going at a pretty rapid pace  along a road This column of ants covered a space about  eight or ten inches in length by three or four in breadth   Then there must have been more than a dozen anta  abreast observed Philibert but I suppose that they  did not move all in order like soldiers right foot and  left foot together   Pray go on Mr Knowabit said Sydney   In a few minutes Huber saw the column leave the  road pass a thick hedge and enter a meadow Full of  curiosity to know whither they were bound the natural  ist followed to watch them There was the column of  disciplined insects making its way through the grass  without straggling going steadily on like an army of  men under a human general till it came near a nest of  the negroant which was at the distance of about twenty  feet from the hedge   And how did the negroants receive the invaders   did they show fight asked Philibert Philimore   Some of the negroes were guarding the entrance of  their nest and on discovering the advancing foe dashed  bravely forward to repel them The alarm that an enemy  was coming to attack them soon spread amongst the  negroes more and more of the gallant little ants rushed  out to defend their home then a fierce fight ensued   Oh poor little negroes I hope that they had the  best of it exclaimed Sydney   If Id been there Id have stamped my foot on the  amazonants and killed the whole army at once cried  Philibert  Knowabit smiled at the foolish boast The squires  son would have been afraid of a single wasp and was  little likely to attack a whole column of fiercebiting  amazonants   After a short conflict continued the fairy the  negroes fled to their underground galleries leaving the  amazons masters of the field The invaders now began  making openings for themselves into the anthill and  Huber soon saw the amazons swarming in where he had  no power to follow them In two or three minutes  however they reappeared out of the nest each amazon  carrying a grub or baby negroant and having obtained  what they wanted they returned the same way that  they had come only not in the same regular marching  order   And the poor negroes had been robbed of all their  babies cried Sydney   Not of all of them said the fairy Huber after  watching for some time the homeward march of the  amazons returned to the anthill which they had plun  dered and near it saw a few of the defeated negroes  perched upon the stalks of plants and holding in their  mouths some grubs that had escaped the general pillage   Im glad of that said the kindhearted Sydney   But what did the amazons do with the babyants that  they had carried ofi asked Philibert Did they  make a grand feast and gobble them up   Oh no You forget that the expedition was to  capture slaves not to procure food answered the fairy   Huber was curious like yourself to know the fate of  the little prisoners He found out the nest of the  amazonants and took his post near it to watch what  would happen on the conquerors return to their home  He was much surprised to see a nuner of negroants  come out of the amazons nest to meet the victors not  as enemies to fight them but like affectionate servants  or friends These negroes caressed the amazons offered  them food and then received from them the little pupae  or grubs of which they took charge doubtless in order  to bring them up as if they were their own offspring   How funny how very funny cried Philibert   Of course these negroants must have been caught and  carried off when they were babies themselves but had  quite forgotten or forgiven the attack upon their old  home   I suppose that the amazons treat their slaves well  observed Sydney Theyve no flogging and over  working in an anthill   The amazons and the negroants live in perfect har  mony together said Knowabit Indeed the ama  zons are quite dependent upon their servants and would  not know what to do without them for the warriors  appear to be no more fit to work for themselves than  are the soldierants of the termites Not only does all  the building work and the nursing of the pupae fall to  the share of the negroants but they even take the  trouble of feeding the amazons The busy little labourers  appear as much masters as servants in the nest and it  has been remarked will even refuse the amazons ad  mission into their own home if they come back unsuc  cessful from one of their plundering excursions  Do these amazons ever carry off grownup negro  ants inquired Sydney   Never are they seen to do so answered the fairy   The babyants only are taken and it is no hardship  whatever to them to be brought up in the amazons  nest   Oh how I wish that we had some of these curious  ants in England exclaimed Philibert it would be  such rare fun to watch them   We have not the amazons here observed Knowa  bit but these very woodants on the hillock at your  feet have been seen to eagerly carry off the pupae of  other ants   I should like to catch them at it cried Sydney   I never thought that common woodants were such  curious creatures   What will you say when I tell you that some ants  may almost be said to have their herds as well as their  servants said the fairy It is well known that ants  press from the aphides a kind of insect very common  upon our apple and oak trees a sweet juice which  nourishes them as human beings are nourished by the  milk of their cows The ants do not hurt the aphides  they gently stroke them with their feelers which are  called antennae and then drink the honeydew with  which those creatures are supplied   Wonders upon wonders cried Sydney   Ants are very fond of liquids continued the fairy   and are provided with little tongues with which they  are able to lap   I suppose said Sydney that the ants do not  keep herds they only catch a what do you call it  when they can find one   Nay replied Knowabit the clever Huber dis  covered that the common yellowant of our gardens keeps  the eggs of the aphis and guards them as carefully as if  they were her owa   Oh doesnt that look as if the ant knew that the  aphis would one day supply it with honeydew cried  Sydney   Huber continued the fairy found in the nest of  the yellowant a number of little eggs most of them  were black as ebony but some were of a clouded yellow  In vain the ants that Huber had disturbed tried to carry  off these eggs the human intruder seized upon both the  ants and their treasure and in order to watch them  more closely put them all into a corner of a box faced  with glass   And what did the yellowants do in their prison V  asked Philibert Philimore   They collected the eggs and placed them in a heap  as if they valued them  highly Part of the num  ber they put into some  earth which was in the  box others they stroked  seemed to lick and fre  quently canied about in  their mouths The ants  seemed to regard these eggs  APiiiDEs OR PLANTLicBL ih grcat affcctlon They  were not anteggs which are white but the eggs of  aphides   And what are the aphides like when these little  cows of the ants are full grown inquired Sydney   There are various kinds of aphides as there are  various kinds of ants said Knowabit The common  oak aphis you may see on this very leaf on which I am  resting my wand   What an ugly creature exclaimed Philibert as the  boys turned their eyes in the direction pointed out by  the fairy and beheld a very repulsivelooking brown  insect   If the ants were to hold a cattleshow observed  Sydney gaily no one would think much of the beauty  of their cows unless they consider it a beauty to have  such a long tail as this ugly aphis seems to have   What you mistake for a tail is a sucker observed  Knowabit which is bent under the body of the  insect and therefore appears behind it That sucker is  much the same to the aphis that the trunk is to the ele  phant Through this long proboscis it drinks up the  juices of the leaf upon which it is resting which juices  will undergo a wondrous change into the honeydew  with which it supplies the ants  CHAFIER VI  THE FAIRY S OFFER  5OW all the time during which Knowabit was  holding this long conversation with the boys  there was a listener whose presence Philibert and  Sydney never suspected though Fairy Frisket  had chosen for her seat the shoulder of the  squires young son covered as it was with thick blue  velvet almost as soft as moss Frisket was quite as much  amused as any of the party regarding as she did with  great curiosity those remarkable creatures called boys to  whom this was her first introduction Perhaps the fairys  feelings towards them were something like what their own  might have been on their first sight of a huge elephant  which they had found more sagacious and goodtempered  than they had expected such a monster to be Frisket  began to suspect that what her brother had said might be  true that she had indulged a foolish prejudice against  liuman beings and that her scorn of mankind had arisen  from her want of knowledge Whenever we are inclined  to despise any being we should try to discover whether  the feeling may not arise from mingled ignorance and  pride  Fairy Frisket was amused not only by watching the  boys but by hearing what her brother was relating Of  course she who had lived for hundreds of years in the  forest knew all about woodants and aphides and every  other creature save man that lived near her fairy haunts  but of foreign creatures Frisket really knew nothing  How was it to be expected that she should seeing that  she had never looked into a book Of lions tigers and  bears except of course the insects antlions tiger  moths and woollybears she never had heard in her life  An elephant would have amazed her The pretty little  fairy as she listened to her brother began to imagine  that pleasure might be found in learning even by a fay  and that the hundreds of years spent amongst the books  in the study by Knowabit might not have been lost  time after all  Only once had Frisket been displeased during the  course of the conversation to which she had listened  and that was when saucy Philibert had joked about  packing up her learned brother in a hatbox The in  dignant little fairy had popped her stingbrush out of  her bag with the intention of giving the plump white  ear which lay so conveniently close to her hand such a  tap with it as would have sent the saucy boy roaring  with paii all the way back to the Hall Sydneys ques  tion by diverting Friskets attention to amazonants  had saved his companion for a time at least from the  danger of which he was so little aware but the fairy  resolved that the saucy boy should not always escape so  easily but that she would tickle his ear or spot his  cheek or stir his tea with the green end of her wand if  ever she should catch him again speaking disrespectfully  of one of her race   All the strange things which you have told us Mr  Fairy said Sydney make me want so much to learn  more How curious it would be to know what is pass  ing in that little anthill at this moment   Would you like to enter it and look about you  asked Knowabit quickly feeling in his pocket for his  tiny pot of pomatum   Thats quite impossible answered the boy smiling  as he glanced down on the little brown hillock which it  would not have been difficult to have jumped over for  English ants build very much more humble homes than  the tennites of Africa   It is not impossible for mind to go where body can  not enter when fancy is powerful said the learned fay   If I but touch your temples with this curious pomatum  tomorrow morning for an hour after sunrise you and  your companion there if he wish it shall inhabit the  tiny bodies of ants and explore wherever ants can go  I am speaking of course of your minds and not of your  large heavy bodies   And what is to become of our poor bodies while our  minds are running about and amusing themselves thus  exclaimed the astonished Sydney while Philibert who  could scarcely yet even understand the strange offer of  the fairy stood staring at him with mouth and eyes wide  open with amazement   Your bodies will remain fast asleep on your beds  while your minds roam free as they so often do in your  dreams   I wont be an ant exclaimed Philibert suddenly  If Mary the nurse should see me in such a shape  running over my pillow shed squash me as sure as a  gun  This exclamation and the anxious alarmed look on  the face of the fat little boy made Knowabit fall into  such a violent fit of laughter that he shook the twig on  which he was seated and nearly knocked over the aphis  His laughter was echoed by Fairy Frisket though of  course the boys could not hear the tinkling sound of her  mirth as she had never yet pulled the tassel which had  been given to her by her brother   Dont be frightened my Mend said Knowabit as  soon as his laughter was over You shall find yourself  an ant in these woods and close to this anthill where no  monster in the shape of a nurse will be near to squash  you   But suppose we should never turn back again into  boys suggested Sydney shaking his head very gravely  as he looked down on the little rustybrown creatures  that were running about at his feet   No fairy spell lasts beyond an hour replied Know  abit At the end of sixty minutes you wiU find your  selves safe and sound in your beds Shall I touch you  with this continued the fairy holding out towards  Philibert the tiny pot of pomatum   I dont believe that you can turn me into an ant or  into anything else with that ridiculous little mustard  seed exclaimed Philibert  Out popped Fairy Friskets stingbrush but her  brother who saw the movement of her tiny hand made  a sign to her not to use it   I have given you already pretty convincing proofs  of my fairy power said Knowabit I make you the  offer but once more Shall I enable you by fancy to  enter an anthill in the shape of an ant  Do it if you can 1 cried Philibert Philimore with a  little laugh of defiance  Almost before the words had quitted his lips Know  abit with a few quivers of his wings had reached  the squires son and touched his temples with fancy  pomatum  O Philibert youre in for the adventure cried  Sydney   Then you shall be in for it too exclaimed Phili  bert again looking frightened If Im an ant you  shall be an ant Oh do pray do let your forehead be  touched The poor little boy was alarmed at the idea  of undergoing such a change all by himself he thought  that no adventure would be so terrible if but his com  panion would share in it  Sydney smiled but hesitated I should like to  consult my mother he said but she would think  me quite out of my wits if I asked her leave to turn  into a woodant   And you cant ask her leave cried Philibert you  know that you heard yesterday that she has been sud  denly called to Scotland to visit her sick brother O  Sydney dont leave me in the lurch it would be so  cowardly it would be so unkind  I should not like to be unkind to any one nor to  desert you said Sydney and yet this is such a very  strange very uncommon kind of affair  Do you doubt me asked Knowabit who had  again taken his perch on the twig have you child of  earth ever found me the child of air lead you into  danger or evil   No indeed replied Sydney frankly I have had  nothing but good from what you have taught me Touch  my forehead if you like Mr Fairy Philibert and I will  visit the little anthillock together  Lightly flew Knowabit towards the boy lightly he  touched his temples with the fancypomatum At this  moment the voice of Mary was heard calling aloud  through the wood Master Philibert Master Philibert  where are you will you never come in for your break  fast  CHAPTER VII  FORAGINGANTS  T was with mixed and very curious feelings that  the two boys at Fairydell Hall thought over  J the occurrences of the morning and the very  strange offer of Knowabit The first thing  which Philibert did on returning to the Hall  was to wash his forehead well with soap and water for  lie had sad misgivings as to the power of the fancy  pomatum though he had so saucily defied Knowabit to  turn him into an ant Notwithstanding this washing  Philibert did not fel easy in his mind and when after  breakfast he and Sydney were together alone in the  playroom with a look of trouble on his plump round  face thus Philibert addressed his companion   I say Sydney do you really think that that horrid  little conjuring fairy it was well that Frisket was not  resent to hear will really turn us both into pismires   I think that it will be as if we had a dream of being  ants and that in this odd kind of dream we shall enter  the anthill   But I dont care a straw for seeing the inside of that  wretched little heap exclaimed Ehilibert and if I  ever went in who knows whether I ever should come  out again Think what fierce little things these ants  are Remember what the fairy told us of terrible  soldiers that would let themselves be pulled in pieces  rather than let go an enemy whom they had caught hold  of Why they might catch hold of me  You forget that these soldiers were termites or  whiteants said Sydney and that we have none such  in England   And those fighting amazons  They too do not live in this country observed  young Pierce it was in Switzerland if you remember  that Huber watched the column on its march   But I dont see why English ants should be better  humomed than African or Indian or Swiss ants said  Philibert they may bite as fiercely as any Knowa  bit told us that those very woodants have been seen to  carry off pupils or puppies or what did he call  them   Pupae said Sydney with a smile  I know what 111 do observed Philibert Mr  Gray is coming to see papa this forenoon hes the clever  fellow with the bald head who knows so much about all  kinds of creatures Ill question him about ants Ill  ask him whether English pismires are quiet gentle good  natured little beasts that never think of fighting or  biting  There was no fear of Philibert Philimores forgetting  his intention for the perils that might be encountered in  an anthiU weighed a good deal on his mind When at  noon the boys entered the diningroom where the rosy  cheeked jovial squire and his grave intelligentlooking  guest were seated at table with wine and fruit before  them Philibert scarcely waited to shake hands with  Mr Gray before blurting out I want you to tell me  everything about ants  Thirst for knowledge thirst for knowledge said  the squire as he pushed the decanter of port towards his  guest as if he thought that Mr Gray might be thirsting  for something besides   The subject of ants is one on which we might talk  all day long observed the baldheaded gentleman there  are so many species of the formica or ant and their  manners and habits are so various The termites  Oh I know all about them already interrupted  Philibert they make houses twenty feet high and  have a big king and an enormous queen and soldiers  that fight like furies I want to know if other kinds of  ants are as savage  A green kind in Australia replied Mr Gray is  said to inflict a wound almost as painful as the sting of  a bee Another is called the fireant from the burning  sensation which it causes Captain Stedman relates that  a whole company of soldiers started and jumped about  as if scalded with boiling water from having got amongst  antnests A writer named Knox in an account of  Ceylon mentions a black ant which he tells us bites  desperately as bad as if a man were burned by a  coal of fire but he adds the consoling assurance that   they are of a noble nature and will not begin unless  you disturb them  The countenance of poor Philibert fell he felt more  frightened than ever and began to regard ants as  creatures much of the nature of wolves only happily  not so large and so strong Sydney who had not lost  his courage quietly inquired But what we should like  most to know sir is whether our own little English ants  ever bite or sting   Some small English ants replied Mr Gray such  as the red and the turf ants are undoubtedly possessed  of a sting but the genus in general is more given to  biting  Philibert uttered a little groan  The ant is decidedly a pugnacious creature con  tinued Mr Gray I had in one comer of my garden  three separate colonies of ants of different species the  yellow Formica flava the negio Foimica fusca and  the red Myrmica rubra and it was not safe for a  member of one of these colonies to cross over into the  territory of either of its neighbours Very savage battles  sometimes take place between armies of diifferent ants  Poor Philibert groaned again which made his father  glance up at him in surprise Why whats the matter  with the boy muttered he Seeing however nothing  to cause him any uneasiness in the fat face of his heir  the jovial squire observed aloud Ive heard that if a  kitchen be infested with beetles a sure way to get rid  of them is to introduce a colony of ants only he con  tinued gaily the remedy might be worse than the  disease   Do you mean inquired Sydney that the ant is a  match for the black beetle a creature fifty times larger  than itself   We must allow for numbers observed Mr Gray   Ants small as they are seem to understand the axiom  Union is strength But a lady of my acquaintance  actually saw a single ant kill a wasp that appeared to  have been by some accident disabled so as to be unable  to fly  An ant kill a wasp exclaimed Philibert daiting  an uneasy glance towards Sydney   Yes even English ants are remarkable creatures  observed Mr Gray but when we compare them to the  termites the whiteants of warmer latitudes their  feats appear as nothing When I was in India he  continued addressing himself to the squire not liking  the bare appearance which the walls of rooms there  usually present I hung up on mine halfadozen good  engravings in gildel frames with glass to preserve the  prints One morning it seemed to me that the glass was  uncommonly dull and the frames seemed to be covered  with dust I walked up to them intending to give a  good dusting to them and a good scolding to my care  less native servants when what was my surprise to find  each glass not hanging in the frame as I had left it the  night before but actually fixed to the wall by a cement  put round it by the whiteants The insects had eaten  up the wooden frames for their supper had gobbled up  the greater part of my beautiful pictures showing a taste  for such works of art and as the glass was too hard for  even their strong little jaws they had left each upheld  by the covered way of cement which they had formed  after their usual fashion in order to devour their meal in  peace  The boys looked astonished and the squire observed  Insects with such voracious appetites must be the  plague of your lives in India   Nothing seems to come amiss to whiteants said  Mr Gray smiling they ve no objection to boots shoes  papers clothing We have sometimes to put the feet of  our chests of drawers into saucers full of water to pre  vent the whiteants from eating up their contents   I wonder what such mischievous insects were made  for exclaimed Philibert Philimore  My young friend observed Mr Gray gravely   everything has its own proper place in creation and  some of the insects which we most dislike are valuable  workers for man Whiteants like burying beetles and  other creatures that are no favourites of ours such as  jackals and vultures perform very important seivices  They are the scavengers of nature they clear away  refuse dead animals and decaying matter which if  left to corrupt on the ground would taint the air and  make it unwholesome  Sydney Pierce did not speak but he remembered  what his mother had often told him of the beautiful  arrangements in the natural world by which various  races of creatures are made to conduce to the support  and comfort of others nor had he forgotten Knowabits  account of the poor Africans fixiding their termites to be  delicious food  Tve heard said the squire that in Tropical  America there is a species of ants so useful in this way  of clearing off rubbisi that when an army of them are  seen on the march the people throw open every box and  drawer in their houses that the ants may come in and  make a clean sweep of all the centipedes scorpions and  poisonous reptiles to say nothing of cockroaches and  beetles that are apt to hide there in holes and crannies  Even rats and mice lizards and snakes are said to be  hunted out and destroyed by these wonderful ants  That kind of ants is called foraging and belongs  to the genus Eciton remarked Mr Gray These  foragingants sally forth in immense hosts their columns  are sometimes a hundred yards in length 1   Oh they beat the amazons out and out exclaimed  Philibert   And it is a curious circumstance that these armies  of foragingants seem to be eoiumauded by regular  officers continued Mr Gray about one officer to each  twenty common men I beg pardon I should say  common ants  And have the officers gold epaulets on to show  their rank asked Sydney playfully   No they are distinguished by their large white  heads which go nodding up and down as they run along  by the side of their men I mean ants to see that all  are marching in proper order   Well of all wonderful creatures that ever I have  heard of I think that ants are the most wonderful  exclaimed Philibert They seem these foragingants   to be like famous housemaids aiid better than house  maids if they clear the rooms even of snakes But he  added looking more grave I shouldnt like to watch  the little fellows while they were busy at work for fear  lest if they could not find cockroaches and lizards and  snakes enough to please them they should take a fancy  to me   I should certainly advise you to take the precaution  of getting out of their way said Mr Gray with a  smile The natives it is said when the insect army  draws near run out of their dwellings and leave them  for awhile to the ants They know that the foragers  will make themselves very much at home and help  themselves without need of assistance to whatever they  can find When the insects have finished their useful  work they march off and the people return to their  houses finding them all the more comfortable and safe  from the visit of the foragingants   If a man should happen to come across one of the  armies of ants what would he do inquired Sydney   If he were a sensible fellow he would take to his  heels and be off replied Mr Gray   I think that it is time that you and I should be off  too observed the squire rising from table for we  have a good long ride before us you know And well  follow the fashion of these foragingants by clearing the  table he added pulling towards him a dish of beautiful  grapes of which he and his guest had just been par  taking Sydney and Philibert my lads heres a  bunch for each of you and with a goodhumoiued nod  to his son and young guest by way of goodbye the  squire followed Mr Gray to the old stone porch which  led into the courtyard of Fairydell Hall where two  saddled horses were waiting for the gentlemen in charge  of a mounted groom  CHAPTER VIII  FRISKET EXPLORING  JHE squire was much too courteous to have  pulled the ripe bunches out of the china dish  as roughly as he did had he known that a  lady was reclining in the midst of the fruit  resting so lightly upon it as not to rub the down from a  single grape We may wonder that after all that Fairy  Frisket had said to her brother of her dislike for man  kind and her love for a free airy life in the woods we  should find her in a dish of grapes in the diningroom of  Fairydell Hall But the curiosity of the little lady had  been fairly aroused having seen something of the human  race she was inclined to see a little more especially as she  had not foimd it to be as utterly bad as her fancy had  pictured Fairy Frisket began to think that a large old  house might be quite as great a curiosity as a rooks or a  jackdaws nest especially as some of the building materials  must have been brought from a very great distance  Frisket had spent hours in the earlier pait of the day  in flying about the hall or loinning up the edge of the  staircase banister with those tiny fairy feet that did not  disturb a particle of dust upon the carved oak The  pictures which hung upon the walls had greatly puzzled  the fairy she had had her doubts at first whether the  portrait of Lord Bacon in his highcrowned hat and large  ruffle were not really alive only she had never heard  of any race of men who had heads without bodies and  though the ruffle might be a kind of huge white wing  it seemed to her scarcely suited to fly with Closer  examination convinced the fairy that the picture had  nothing in it of life What pleased Frisket most was  a window of stained glass which she found at the end  of a corridor It would have been the prettiest of  sights could any one have seen it to have beheld  the little fairy fluttering in the coloured rays that came  streaming through the diamondshaped panes her gos  samer robe and transparent wings now catching tints  of rich crimson then of purple and then of deep  blue  Bent upon exploring every comer of the curious old  house Frisket had actually found her way into the  kitchen but the sight of a great joint of raw beef hang  ing up and the scent of ham and of cheese had soon  sent the fairy flying away in disgust She had lingered  for a few minutes however chiefly attracted by the  huge fire the first fire be it remembered that Frisket  ever had seen   Have these strange mortals mused the fairy   managed to imprison within those black bars the wild  Willothewisp which I have sometimes seen at night  dancing over the moor even I never could catch it Or  are these red flames that go roaring up that dark pass  age flashes of lightning kept in a cage  That single kitchenfire gave Frisket a greater icjea of  the power and skill of mankind than anything else in  the large old dwelling had she seen a lucifer match  lighted it would have struck her with amazement   Is that big mortal with a face like a poppy feeding  that shining thing with lumps like stones but blacker  than beetles Is it alive that it darts upward and  curls around them and licks them with bright red  tongues and utters such a joyous crackle as if it enjoyed  its meal exclaimed Frisket as she watched the cook  at the very commonplace occupation of putting on coals  The little lady drew nearer to examine the fire more  closely till the heat of the flame began to scorch her  transparent wings and annoyed by this and the savoury  scents of the kitchen the fairy took her flight from the  place to rest herself after her wanderings amongst the  cool purple and green grapes that appeared upon the  diningroom table  When the squire had disposed of the fruit as we have  seen between the two boys Fiisket returned to her  former perch upon the soft velvet of Philiberts dress  resting her head against one of the yellow locks of the  little boys hair Of course she curiously examined his  linen collar as it lay so close under her eyes but she  thought it as coarse as we might think a piece of rough  matting and said to herself that mortals were a very  long way indeed behind the gossamer spiders   I say Sydney you dont get such jolly giapes as  these at your home observed Philibert Philimore as he  plucked at his fine large bunch   I seldom get grapes of any sort replied Sydney   and therefore I suppose I enjoy these all the more  The fruit was indeed no small treat to the delicate  boy whose natiually feverish temperament made the  cool juicy fruit especially refreshing He only wished  that his dear mother could have shared the rich purple  bunch which he held in his hand  The boys sauntered out of the diningroom into the  large old hall panelled with oak and hung with ancient  armour stuffed foxes heads and stags horns This  hall was an especial delight to Sydney whose fancy  eopled it with the knights and ladies of old As Phili  bert and his companion crossed it they met Mary com  ing from the little postern entrance with an empty jar in  her hand   Little Simon Garland has just brought back the jar  which the soup was sent in Do you wish to see him  Master Philibert asked Mary Though she addressed  herself to her young charge she glanced at Sydney as  she spoke   Theres no use in our seeing him said Philibert   he has been given money physic and soup I dont  know what he can want more   Perhaps he would like us to give him a kind word  too and ask after his sick father observed Sydney  Pierce His mother had taught him that it is not only  help but sympathy that the poor should have from those  who are richer and his own heart told him that a smile  and kind word will often give more pleasure than a  present  As Philibert had nothing more amusing to do he  went with his guest to the little lowarched door at  which Simon Garland was waiting the squires son eat  ing his grapes as he went and throwing down the skins  on the polished oak floor an untidy proceeding which  offended the invisible fairy  Frisket had as we know seen very little of human  kind In the squires comfortable home every one  except perhaps his young guest appeared sleek and  well fed the squire himself was jovial and stout Phili  berts cheeks though not rosy were plump and round  the looks of every one of the servants showed that they  were not stinted in regard to mutton and beef Trisket  haxl an idea that almost all mankind were heavy and  fat and great was her surprise when human poverty for  the first time met her view With wondering pity she  looked upon little Simon with his face so thin and so  pale his neatlypatched clothes and the coarse shoes  that had been worn so long as to be iast patching and  mending   Alas poor child he looks like a dry peapod said  the fairy to herself I hope that there are not many of  the human race like him  Could Frisket have glanced into many of the wretched  abodes of the poor she would have seen sights of sorrow  that might have saddened even the blithe little fairy   How is your father Simon asked Sydney kindly  while Philibert stood by eating up his grapes as fast as  he could   Fathers the better for the soup thank ee master  replied Simon a grateful smile lighting up his thin little  face But he hant got rid of the fever yet he lies  a long time awake o nights the cough tries him so  and hinders his sleeping   And makes his mouth feel hot and dry I daresay  said Sydney who knew too well what it is thus to  suffer   Mother aFays puts a cup of water by fathers bed  side at night just to cool his lips Taking a drop now  and then he drinks it all up afore morning  Frisket noticed that Sydney glanced down at the bunch  of grapes which he held then again at the boy then once  more at the sweet juicy fruit She guessed the thought  which was passing through the mind of Sydney and  watched with keen interest the first struggle against self  which she had ever yet had an opportunity of seeing  SYDNEY AND 8IUON   I say Sydney theres our dinnerbell observed  Philibert turning on his heel  The little glutton exclaimed the fairy he has  eaten half a cluster of grapes already and now he is  eager for that heavy animal food  The moment that Philiberts back was turned Sydney  held out his own tempting bunch of grapes to the sick  mans son This will refresh your poor father more  than the water he said and hunying away without  waiting for thanks he joined his little companion  CHAPTER IX  THE BRUSH AND THE WAND  CLL done Sydney Pierce well done ex  claimed the invisible fairy I shall stir  your food with the golden end of my  wand you shall enjoy your dinner to  day it shall be the sweetest that you  ever ate in your life I could almost wish that I my  self were a child instead of a fairy that I too might  have a battle to fight and a victory over self to win  that I too might give up something to make a poor  sufferer happy This must be a nobler kind of pleasure  than any that fairyland can afford 1  Philibert usually took his meals in his playroom  where he was waited upon by Mary To the play  room therefore the two boys went at the summons of  the bell accompanied by the imseen fairy still perched  upon Philiberts shoulder A very savoury scent pro  ceeded from the dish at the top of the table which was  spread with a milkwhite cloth on which appeared  plates knives forks and spoons laid for two The  savoury scent was not agreeable to Fairy Frisket it  reminded her of the kitchen and the great joint of raw  meat which she had seen hanging up there But if the  odour annoyed the fair lady it had a very different  eflFect upon the two boys   I say theres something good in that dish I can  tell by the smell crieu Philibert Whip off the  cover Mary were both as hungry as hounds  Sydney was the more hungry of the two as he had  not damped his appetite by eating half a pound of ripe  grapes Very tempting to him was the appearance of  the nicelybrowned cutlets with the rich thick sauce  around them which met his view when Mary had lifted  the cover from the dish  I say this is good exclaimed Philibert grasping  his knife and fork and holding them upright while his  fat little fists rested on the table Cook hasnt given  us veal cutlets before for ever so long   Veal is that veal asked Sydney in a tone that  betrayed a little disappointment   Yes jolly nice it is Dont you like it said  Philibert   I daresay that I should like it very much replied  Sydney but the doctor forbade my ever eating veal   Oh the doctors a donkey 1 cried Philibert and  youre not under his thumb at Fairydell Hall Just  eat away like a man it wont do you a bit of harm  Sydney hesitated for a moment and then said with a  little effort My mother would not wish me to take it  A pink tinge rose upon the boys cheek as he spoke   But your mother is not here any more than the  doctor and I won t tell of you cried Philibert laugh  ing as he plunged his fork into the nearest brown  cutlet   Ill do just the same as if she were here she trusts  me said Sydney And again Frisket exclaimed Well  done at this second little victory over self   But you dont mean to go without your dinner I  suppose said Philibert and he put a large piece of the  cutlet into his own mouth   Perhaps I can have something else only I am  sorry to give trouble replied Sydney looking at Mary  who was bringing in a dish of green pease  Oh hell fare like a fairy for once exclaimed  Frisket who was pleased at the idea of her favourite  boy giving up what she considered the shocking habit  of feeding upon meat But the next words of Sydney  undeceived her  Perhaps there is a little cold meat in the house   Certainly Master Pierce theres sure to be a bit  left from the cold shoulder of mutton Ill fetch it  directly said Mary and she quitted the room She  was ever willing to serve Master Sydney who is such  a thorough little gentleman always civil and kind to  every one as the maid observed to the cook when she  asked her for the mutton   Well Sydney you are a poor creature if you dare  not so much as venture on a bit of nice veaJ for fear of  making yourself sick cried Philibert munching as he  spoke The colour on Sydneys cheek rose higher than  before he looked as if he were about to make some  sharp retort to the boy who could despise him merely  for being less hearty and strong than himself but he  pressed his lips tightly together and uttered nothing in  reply Again the fairy marked a silent victory over  self  But Frisket felt no need for the same selfcommand  in a fairy indeed she had taken the idea into her tiny  head that having once come amongst young mortals  she might do great things in the way of bringing them  into good order Twice she had refrained from touch  ing up Master Philibert with her woe brush made of  wasp stings but now she gave him a brisk tap on the  lobe of his fat little ear   Waaa yelled the boy starting up from his seat  and clapping his hand over the place  Whats the matter asked Sydney in surprise unable  to help thinking that Philibert was indeed a poor  creature for giving such a roar like a baby   Something has stung me some horrid ugly beast I  waal howled Philibert Ah if he could but have  seen the face of Frisket when he gave such a description  of a faiiy 1  Sydney goodnaturedly jumped down and ran to the  rescue to find out the offending creature That Phili  bert had been hurt was plain enough for the big tears  were running down his plump cheeks   I cant see a wasp anywhere nor any other insect  said Sydney after a search  I daresay its one of those dreadful foragingants  or amazons or termites or something cried Philibert  quite forgetting in his pain that none of these insects  are natives of England I daresay it has hid itself in  my clothes He jumped up and violently shook his  blue dress Perhaps it is running down my back  O Sydney O Mary the maid had just returned with  the meat do look for the horrid thing that has stung  me right on the ear  Sydney looked and Mary looked amongst the boys  clothes under the collar under the sleeves about the  table below the table but of course they looked in  vain Frisket did not choose to pull her tassel and  they might have searched to the end of their lives be  fore they discovered the fairy  If Frisket had hoped to mend the manners or improve  the temper of Philibert Philimore by that rap on his ear  flO THE BRUSH AND THE WAND  she was to be disappointed The boy returned to his  veal cutlets in a mood like that of a wounded bear  while Sydney ate his cold mutton with a serene con  science and the sauce of a good appetite Young Pierce  would have preferred the daintier dish but he was  happy in the consciousness that he was obeying his  mother and much enjoyed his simple food   I cannot bear to touch flesh with my fairy wand  murmured Frisket for veal and mutton are food which  no fairy could ever abide but if anything eatable appear  on the table Ill make the boy who gave away all his  grapes taste something sweeter than anything which  has ever yet passed the lips of a mortal  The meat course was succeeded by a greengage tart  a help from which was placed by Mary before each of  the boys Little guessed they who stood on the edge of  Philiberts china plate taking care not to dip her delicate  little feet into the juice of the fruit as she stirred it with  the green end of ier wand Frisket then flew off like a  butterfly and without alighting plunged the golden tip  for a second into the midst of Sydneys supply   What a horrid taste this tart has exclaimed Phili  bert turning up his nose with a look of disgust when  he had taken the first spoonful of the fruit tart before  him   Why Master Philibert you always like greengage  tart better than anything else said Mary   I dont like this it tastes like soap ugh exclaimed  Philibert pushing back his plate   Do you find anything wrong in the tart Master  Sydney asked Mary  Sydney had just been thinking that he had never  before in his life tasted anything half so nice All the  sweetness of a bunch of rich grapes seemed to be gathered  into every greengage He only smiled however and  replied I cannot say that I find anything wrong  Thus encouraged Philibert tried another spoonful but  he could scarcely manage to swallow it Taste it  yourself he cried fiercely to Mary pointing to the  remains of the tart in the dish  Mary tasted and thought it excellent it had not been  stirred by the fairy  Ill tell you what Master Philibert said Mary  youve been making yourself sick by eating such a  quantity of rich veal cutlet I believe Master Sydneys  mamma is quite right veal is not wholesome for children  You do not like that nice tart because youre not in a  humour to like anything  I dont like soap exclaimed Philibert fiiriously  flinging himself backwards on his chair and kicking  upwards at the table which action set the glasses jingling  and the fairy laughing while neither Sydney nor Mary  found it easy to keep from smiling Perhaps there was  some truth in the guess of the maid at least some of  my readers may have found themselves inclined to find  fault with viands which hungry little children would  enjoy from having played the glutton like Philibert  Philimore Oreedineas often has the same effect as the  green end of the fairys wand   I wonder how you can behave so like a big baby  Master Philibert said Mary to her spoiled young charge   Im really ashamed that Master Sydney should see you  in your tantrums You first roar and cry out that you  are stung when theres nothing near that could hurt  you and then complain of the nicest food instead of  being thankful that you have dainties when others can  scarcely get bread Im sure that with all your play  things and pleasures you ought to be the happiest boy  in the world   Tm not happy at all 1 growled Philibert the fairys  greentipped wand was at that moment touching his eye  lid Im tired of all my playthings they are so ugly  and stupid and I dont see what pleasures I have I  dont like this great dull old Hall its the most gloomy  place in the world  Sydney uttered an exclamation of astonishment   Oh 1 it seems to me to be so grand so beautiful every  thing that I see here I admire so much I can hardly  fancy any place more delightful than Fairydell Hall  Of course Friskets wand had touched his eyelid but  it was the goldentipped end Ah little reader whether  you dwell in a cottage or a palace a shop in a street or  a castle amid woods how do you view the objects around  you Are you pleased with and thankful for your  blessings or inclined to find fault with everything around  you Contentment is the golden end of the wand and  discontent is the green one Wonderfiil is the difference  made in every object by the touch of the one or the  other  CHAPTER X  INSIDE THE CITY  fP you believe Sydney that anything will really  come of Knowabits touching us th that  curious fancypomatum as he calls it was  Philibeiis anxious whisper when on the  evening of that day the two boys were pre  jiaring for bed  The fairy has always kept his promises replied  Sydney so it seems as if we ought not to doubt him  though it is difficult to imagine being turned into an  ant  The pot of pomatum was so very very small  observed Philibeit  Ah but perhaps a very little fiincy may go a  long way said Sydney  Philibert was very restless and uneasy and could not  get to sleep for some time perhaps owing to a feeling of  fear and wonder perhaps from his having eaten too  plentifully of veal cutlet Sydney slept long and serenely  but awoke at last with a sensation of the greatest amaze  ment The fresh cool air of early mom was around  him the forest boughs waved above him the morning  star was growing pale in the clear blue sky and in the  east a bar of red gold showed where the sun was about  to rise What astonished Sydney for no expectation  beforehand could prepare him for a sensation so exceed  ingly funny was to find himself quite close to the earth  and so small that he could have run up a blade of grass  or have hidden himself under a daisy   Oh 1 exclaimed Sydney in amazement what would  my mother say if she knew that her boy was running  about upon six little legs no bigger than pinpoints  If I am asked how Sydney in his new shape managed  to utter such an exclamation I must own that it puzzles  me to give an explanation It is true that he had a jaw  and a tongue but whether he was able to produce with  them any sound which could be heard even by an ant  the most learned naturalist scarcely could undertake to  decide That ants have some kind of language under  stood by their companions at least that they are able  in some way to ask for food or for help or to give  tidings where a prize may be found seems clear to  those who have watched them closely Some believe  that this language is expressed by the motion of their  feelers or antennse that it is something like the method  by which deaf and dumb people speak on theu fingem  while others suppose that these same quivering antennae  are actually to ants what ears are to us and convey to  them sounds too faint to reach mans less delicate sense  As Fairy Knowabit is never likely dear reader to turn  either you or me into emmets we shall probably never  know exactly the nature of this ant language Had we  been ever so close to Sydney when he uttered his ex  clamation of wonder we should certainly not have heard  it and we should have seen in him nothing but a very  commonplace rusycoloured pismire such as may be  found running about in hundreds of woods in England   O dear Sydney Pierce is that you cried an ant  close beside him Isnt it horrid to feel so dreadfully  small Im so glad that you are in the scrape as well as  myself   We had better make the most of our time while we  are so small observed Sydney the ant Theres our  hill Id no notion that it was so big why it looks to  me now as large as one of the Pyramids of Egypt How  our little companions here ever managed to raise it so  high puzzles my brain  I dont fancy going in cried Philibert He was  not possessed of a very stout heart either as a boy or a  pismire I dont like at all being jostled in a crowd  and Im sure that of all bustling busy places in the  world an anthill must be about the worst   Aie you in want of a guide gentle strangers said  a pismire approaching the visitors and laying her little  quivering antennae on Sydney in a manner which he felt  to be the perfection of antpoliteness I see that you  do not belong to this community and it might be agree  able to you if I were to conduct you through a few of  the chambers and galleries in the city before us  Sydney was astonished at a pismire having such an  elegant manner and address he little knew that it was  Fairy Frisket herself who had chosen to animate the  form of an ant bent upon having a little frolic with her  human companions in this their strange new position   We should be very much obliged to you indeed Mrs  Ant if you would kindly show us the way and intro  duce us to the gentlemen and ladies inside the city  replied Sydney or they may think that we have no  business to go wandering about in the place  Why where are the little holes which we saw  yesterday with the ants running in and out of them  cried Philibert Philimore   Ive heard observed Frisket that human beings  put up shutters on their windows and close their doors  at night and much in the same way these woodants  stop up their passages when darkness comes on that  they may labour or rest in peace and quiet in their  homes They are not like the brown ants that love to  go abroad in the night and who used to be supposed to  be especially fond of moonshine But see as it is  dawn the good people of the city are pulling down their  shutters and opening their doors which shows that they  expect the day to be fine   Would they keep their passages shut up then  asked Sydney if they expected the day to be wet  They keep their passages well closed in rainy  weather observed Fairy Frisket ants have a great  dislike to the rain   I should not think that such a heap of twigs straw  old grass little bits of wood and dried leaves could keep  out the slightest shower observed Sydney   You show that you are not an experienced pismire  said Frisket gaily You may notice that the whole  hill before us is skilfully rounded in shape so as to carry  off water and so constructed that even violent rains  can soak in but a very little way But there is an  opening from which two active ladies have just succeeded  in dragging several fragments of wood will you please  to walk in young gentlemen there is no need to knock  here before you enter  In trotted Fairy Frisket on her six little legs closely  followed by Sydney but Philibert hung back he was  afraid to enter what he considered to be a little black  hole  Sydney was astonished at the length of the passages  which he now traversed in company with the unknown  fairy His eyes being of course ants eyes he had no diffi  culty in moving about in what to human beings must have  seemed to be utter darkness He passed a great many  woodants who were exceedingly busy at their various  occupations too busy indeed to pay any attention to  him Each was working  by herself without inter  fering with her neigh  bours or appearing to  need any direction or aid  Sydney soon discovered  that what he had called  an anthill was a great  building great compared  to the size of the builders  with story raised upon  story long galleries and  ranges of rooms   What are those ants  about that I see running  down from the upper  stories canying little white  burdens asked Sydney  stepping backwards to let them pass for they seemed  in such haste that had he stood in their way they  might have run over his little body   They are the nurses looking after the comfoit of  the pupae the babyants replied Frisket The  weather promises to be so hot that the upper stories  will be too warm for the dear  little pets their nurses know  that they will be cooler on the  SE groundfloor or down in the eel  LARYA or ANT larS   What careful little nurses exclaimed Sydney   And when the weather grows cold will they carry the  children upstairs   Up they go in damp chilly weather nurses and  pupae together They know well enough that then it  is not healthful to live on the ground or under the  ground But you have as yet seen but a small part of  the city come this way Mr Ant and take a peep at  the tunnels and the galleries hollowed out yonder   These are what we should call vaults observed  Sydney as they took a downward direction through  passages formed in the earth itself with wonderful skill   low themselves but leading to a large middle chamber  which was crowded with ants I know that Squire  Philimore has beercellars winecellars and coalcellars  beneath his fine house but human beings seldom care  themselves to live in such dark low places These ants  seem to enjoy burying themselves alive   Alive you may well say answered the fairy for  they are lively enough and busy enough and dont care  for plenty of light and air as human beings are said to  do But these woodants go to sleep in the winter  huddled up in their little cells and not requiring to eat  or drink until the warm sunshine in spring calls them  up to labour and pleasure again  CHAPTER XI  THE ANTLION  E will now return to Philibert Philimore who  t had remained on the outside of the anthiU  feeling it must be confessed very nervous  and uneasy in his strange new position  The ants soon began to swarm in numbers  out of their city and Philibert had to move from his  place again and again to prevent his being jostled out of  it by his active little neighbours He was aware of a  very strong and peculiar scent from the anthill which  reminded him that Knowabit had once informed him  that vinegar can be made from ants   These rustycoloured little fellows must be different  indeed from those African whiteants thought Phili  bert Im sure that if these were dished up no one  would ever think them like sugared cream or sweet  almond paste   Get out of my way you snail you slug What  are you standing and staring and doing nothing for  cried an angry pismire as he pushed past Philibert  Philimore   Theres more of the vinegar than of the sugar in his  temper at least thought the poor little boy in the  shape of an ant   Come you here lazylegs and help me said  another pismire who was trying in vain to pull along a  bit of dried grass at least four times as long as herself  Philibert stood stockstill He did not choose to  work and very hurting to his pride it was to be bullied  by an ant   We dont keep idlers here cried the impatient  pismire If you dont work well bite off your head  The hint was enough Philibert rushed at the dry  bit of grass and pulled and tugged at it for his life He  had never laboured so hard before   Where are we to take it asked Philibert when  stopping for a moment to take breath   Into the hill of course theres one of the walls  that needs repairing Pull the grass right into that  doorway said the ant  Philibert had been afraid to venture into the anthill  in company with Sydney Pierce and now to go into a  dark place where he would probably lose his way and  that with a pismire who had thoughts of biting off his  head was so exceedingly unpleasant that the poor little  fellow could not make up his mind to do it Philiberts  end of the burden was nearer the hole than that held by  his new companion but by a sudden movement he  managed to change its position   What are you about you stupid cried the pismire   We dont want to lay it across the door but to carry  it in   I want you to take your end in first replied Phili  bert secretly resolving that he would not enter at alL   Youre an awkward pismire if there ever was one  cried the little labourer turning his end of the burden  however so as to drag it first into the hole  No sooner had the woodant disappeared under the  dark little doorway than Philibert dropped the bit of  dry grass and took to his I must not say heels but  his six little legs and ran oflT at a tremendous pace con  sidering the smallness of their size Nothing could stop  him in his course not even limips of clod almost as big  as peas A hairy caterpillar lay in his way Philibert  was over her in a moment The boy ant was running  for his life for he was dreadfully afraid that one of his  new companions would bite off his little black head   More haste worse speed says the proverb and poor  Philibert Philimore was to prove the truth of the saying  Little thought he as he scampered away from the hill  of hidden pitfalls or of secret foes who lie in ambush for  ants Running over a sandy spot down tumbled poor  Philibert into the trap which had been carefully prepared  to catch such prey by the insect called an antlion  What was his horror to find himself suddenly plunging  down the sandy pitfall almost rolling into the powerful  jaws of the dreadful creature lying in wait at the bottom  LYING IN WAIT  This creature was somewhat of the shape of a fat  gardenspider but with long slender mandibles to catch  at its prey Philibert certainly did not stop to examine  its appearance closely for having tumbled into the pit  all his efforts were now directed to scrambling out of it  again The antlion was no more inclined to let a  dinner escape than Philibert himself might have been  It was indeed quite unable to run after Philibert for  the antlion though possessed of six legs can only use  two of them for walking and that but to drag itself  slowly backwards so that it is clear that nature never  intended this creature to overtake its prey in the chase  But in the sand of the pit which it has digged the ant  lion possesses a terrible weapon for if the insect cannot  run it can jerk and fling as Philibert soon found to his  cost As the poor boy ant struggled up the steep sides  of the pit even the movement of his little legs brought  loose sand tumbling about him while the antlion from  behind sent a dreadful shower of it after him sand  grains being to an ant much what sharp stones would  be to a boy Philibert stiniggled scrambled sUpped  backwards then by dint of frantic efforts got a little  way up the side of the pit when a blow from a sand  grain knocked him down again almost into the jaws of  the hungry antlion Happily at that moment the hour  during which the fairy spell lasted expired and Phili  bert awoke with a scream leaving the body of the  pismire to serve as the antlions dinner  CHAPTER XII  BLACK SPOTS  HY what on earth is the matter Master  Sydney exclaimed Mary running into the  room of her charge in alarm at the sound of  his scream Philibert half raised on his  elbow in his bed was staring around him and  rubbing his eyes looking bewildered and frightened Did  anything hurt you to make you scream like a baby   You would have screamed too if a horrid spider had  been going to gobble you up cried Philibert fiercely  Mary burst out laughing Where is this spider  said she I should not have thought that a brave  young gentleman would have been frightened out of his  wits by a poor little insect   Little do you call it cried Philibert it was  bigger than myself and so fat 1  Mary laughed more merrily than before You must  have had a fimny dream said she   Ive not been dreaming at all you know nothing  about the matter cried Philibert who was highly  offended and not a little ashamed He was sufficiently  wideawake now to remember that he would get into a  great scrape with Knowabit if he mentioned to any  one except of course to Sydney who was himself in  the secret anything about his intercourse with the fairy  Philibert could say nothing about fancypomatum to  Mary nor tell her the extraordinary adventure which he  had had in the shape of a woodant Not being able to  ve any explanation of his conduct Philibert felt ex  ceedingly vexed at having been heard to utter a scream  and then woids which must he knew have sounded ab  solute nonsense He almost danced about the room with  passion when while she was helping the little boy to  dress himself Mary remarked with a provoking smile   I shall take very good care little master that cook  never sends up veal cutlets again for your dinner  Very sulky and illtempered was Philibert during all  the time that he was washing and dressing the soap  flew one way the sponge another and the boy would  scarcely stand still for a moment to have the parting  made down the middle of his curly head of hair Mary  set down all this temper of course as the eflect of eat  ing veal cutlets As savage as a bear the squires son  met his companion Sydney in the playroom before  breakfast while Mary went for the cups and saucers the  fresh milk butter and eggs  The face of Sydney was bright with goodhumour  Fairy Frisket who was hovering near had again touched  his eyelids with the golden tip of her wand  O Philibert began the smiling Sydney what a  curious amusing hour we two spent with the ants 1   Curious amusing indeed 1 exclaimed Philibert with  anger I dont know what ycm may think it but  think it anything but amusing to crawl about upon six  legs and then to be nearly devoured by a spider How  dared you leave me in the lurch   I leave you What do you mean asked Sydney   I only went into the anthill and I thought of course  that you were coming in too Why did you not follow  that most polite little ant  Philibert did not choose to reply Because I was too  much frightened to venture although that would cer  tainly have been the most honest answer to have given   I did not choose he muttered to go into that horrid  dirty hole   I assure you that the place was neither dirty nor  horrid but extremely curious and interesting said  Sydney But do tell me of your adventures Phili  bert I cant imagine how you managed to get into the  web of a spider   I never said that I got into a web replied the  squires son as tartly as if he had been accused of getting  into a jail I tumbled down a horrid crumbling pit  fall at the bottom of which lay a fat gray spider with  dreadful long feelers which jerked up such a lot of sand  after me that as fast as I clambered up I tumbled back  again almost into its gaping jaws   Oh it must have been an antlion not a spider  exclaimed Sydney with animation My mother has  told me all about it and she said that though called a  British insect it is seldom if ever found in this country  but it is common enough in France There is no crea  ture that I have ever wished more to see   I wish that you had had to do with it instead of  me I am sure that I saw much more of it than I  liked growled Philibert Philimore   The antlion has a strong flat head said Sydney  recalling what he had been taught with one of its  legs it will manage to place upon this head a load of  sand which it chucks upwards with wonderful strength  tossing as if it were a little bull That curious insect  will carry up out of its pit even a stone two or three  times the weight of its body Fancy what a head it  must have  Philibert gave a little grunt as if he took no great  pleasure in hearing of the antlions strength or skill and  muttered Its the ugliest beast that ever I saw in my  life  But its beautytime is to come observed Sydney   Mother says that the antlion makes for itself a case or  coffin of sand fastened together by threads of its silk  puts a silken web over the whole and then goes to sleep  as the chrysalis of a caterpillar does turns into a pupa  and bursts out at last with four beautiful gauzy wings  and looks very much Jike that lovely creature the  dragonfly   I dont care to hear anything more about it its all  stupid nonsense to say that that horrid little monster of  a spider can ever turn into a creature with wings ex  claimed Philibert The illtempered boy added many  other foolish words to a speech which showed great  ignorance now abusing the antlion now his innocent  companion for leaving him to the spider as he persisted  in calling the insect and now Knowabit the fairy  for having dared to rub upon him that horrid fancy  pomatum  I have mentioned that Fairy Frisket was present in  the room of course listening to all that was said and  very indignant was the little lady at the conduct of the  squires spoiled boy Frisket had taken into her tiny head  the idea that she could by means of fairy punishments  bring Philibert Philimore into much better order reform  his temper and mend his manners Certainly the boy had  seemed none the better for the rap from the fairys sting  brush nor for the spoiling of his greengage tart but  Frisket who had had no experience in teaching and who  was as positive in her own opinion as ignorant people  often are was resolved to keep to her punishment plan  Perching upon Philiberts shoulder once more at every  silly passionate word which he uttered the fairy tapped  his cheek or nose with the green end of her wand leav  ing wherever she tapped a tiny black spot behind  Sydney Pierce did not notice any change in his young  companion because he was not looking at Philibert As  the squires son was so much out of temper Sydney  thought it better to leave his passion to cool and trying  to pay as little attention as possible to Philiberts bad  language young Pierce was examining the pretty pic  tures which ornamented the walls But when Mary re  entered the playroom with the breakfast on a tray she  had hardly set it down on the table before she exr  claimed in amazement Why Master Philibert what is  the matter with your cheek  Her exclamation made Sydney turn round and look   Its all sprinkled with black speckles he cried  Philibert pulled out his little silk handkerchief and  gave the fat cheek such a vigorous scrubbing that he  made it as red as fire But this had only the effect of  making the speckles appear on a scarlet ground instead  of rather a sallow one   Dear dear dear exclaimed Mary each dear  being uttered in a tone of louder alarm its a black  rash coming out on your face Thats not measles nor  chickenpox nor smallpox oh if my father the  chemist were but here I I never heard of black spots  except except in the plague  Philibert stared at Mary with his eyes and mouth  wide open then rushed in terror to a little mirror over  the mantelpiece and commenced rubbing his face again  with more energy than before   You had none of these spots when we met finst in  the morning said Sydney who little guessed that the  ugly marks had been left by foolish and naughty words  Ah little reader if Fairy Frisket with her greentippe  wand were perched on your shoulder would that merry  face of yours never be dotted with ugly black spots for  naughty talking   I must speak to the squire directly about this said  Mary as she hastened out of the room feeling seriously  alarmed She met the jovial master of Fairydell Hall at  the door of his study   Please sir may I speak to you about Master Phili  bert said Mary in a tone so anxious that it awoke a  little alarm in the father   Nothing wrong with the child I hope cried the  squire  I dont know sir indeed replied Mary but  Master Philibert is so odd He has been exceedingly fmc  tious has Master Philibert both yesterday and today   He wants a little more of the rod and a little less  bread and butter observed the squire with a good  humoured smile   He awoke this morning with such a scream sir and  cried that he was going to be eaten up by a spider bigger  than himself   Dreaming dreaming laughed the squire the  little chap had taken too hearty a dinner   And just now continued Mary a black rash has  broken out on one of his cheeks and the side of his  nose   A black rash 1 reechoed the astonished squire  every trace of a smile leaving his face This must be  looked to at once and striding into his study Mr  Philimore rang the bell loudly and in half a minute  rang it loudly again which brought Thomas up in such  haste that he nearly fell over the coalscuttle which  careless Sarah the housemaid had left in the passage  Thomas mount Brownie at once and ride off to  the town for the doctor 1 cried the impatient squire  Tell Dr Grim that Master Philibert has been taken  ill and I beg that hell come and see my son directly  Then while Thomas hastened off to the stable to get  Brownie saddled and bridled the squire himself strode  up the oak staircase to the playroom taking two steps  at a time   A black rash as sure as a gun I never saw any  thing like it before cant imagine what can cause such  a symptom 1 cried the squire as he examined the fat  little cheek which Frisket had powdered with spots The  squire looked grave Sydney looked grave Mary looked  grave and poor Philibert who began to fancy that  something very dreadful must be going to happen was  ready to burst into a roar  Fairy Frisket was astonished at all the alarm and  trouble which she had occasioned by merely making a  few little black dots on a mortals cheek Cowslips did  not mind being speckled the ladybird never seemed a  bit the worse for the spots on her wings Fairy Frisket  we must remember had never known sickness the  word symptom was like Greek and Hebrew to her  she had not an idea what measles smallpox or chicken  pox could possibly be  Im really sorry that all these moitals should vex  themselves so about a little speckling said the fairy to  herself Ill not dot Master Philiberts face any more  let him talk what nonsense he may  The fear that he had some horrible illness coming on  took away all poor Philiberts appetite for his breakfiast  he ate scarcely quarter of a thin slice of bread and  butter and his nice fresh egg went untasted away But  as we know the fairys spells never lasted very long  and almost as soon as Mary had cleared the breakfast  things away all the black dots passed away from the  skin of her charge causing almost as much surprise by  their disappearance as they had done by coming at all  I dont think that there can be much the matter  with you Master Philibert after all said Maiy with a  little sigh of relief   I say Sydney well go out into the woods cried  Philibert as he and his companion strolled out of the  playroom together I want to find the pit of that  horrid spider or antlion as you call it thats not a  bad name after all for when I was an ant it was just  like a lion to me   Oh I should very much like to see it 1 exclaimed  Sydney it would interest my mother so much to hear  all about that creature and its curious pit  Wont I smash the horrid little beast wont I  crush it and stamp upon it cried Philibert grinding  his teeth as he recalled in a spirit of fierce revenge what  he had suffered in his fright I may here observe and  I beg my young readers to remark whether they do not  find my observation to be a true one that they who are  the most cowardly are very often the most cruel also   You would not pimish a poor little insect for acting  according to its instinct cried Sydney It was no  more wicked in the antlion wishing to eat you when  you were in the form of an ant than it would have been  for Squire Philimore to have shot you had you been in  the form of a hare  I do hate the antlion though however you may  choose to stand up for it and Ill kill it said Phili  bert fiercely  Happily for the antlion the boys in vain searched for  its pitfall though they had no difficulty in finding the  anthill Sydney looked down on the swarming pis  mires with their black heads and rustycoloured bodies  with a very curious feeling of interest and amusement   I never knew half of your cleverness and industry  you fine little fellows he cried till I paid you a  visit in your home Nor had I a notion how very  polite and pleasant you can make yourselves to a guest  No lady in her drawingroom could have had nicer  manners or a prettier way of talking than my little  guide  Sydney Pierce had no idea that his courteous com  panion on six legs had not been an ant but a fairy  I cant say much for the mannera of woodants  said Philibert shrugging his shoulders at least dont  call it civil to say If you dont work well bite off your  heai  CHAPTER XIII  THE doctors visit  HILIBERT had had no appetite for his breaks  fast but partly on that account after hisi  ramble in the woods he had a tremendous  appetite for his dinner   I wish that one oclock would come he  had exclaimed at least half a dozen times before the hour  actually arrived and he and Sydney sat down to a  capital dinner of roastbeef which was to be followed by  rich plumpudding  Philibert greedy as well as hungry seized the first  help for himself like a very illmannered boy as he was  and was just going to put a large piece of beef into  his mouth when footsteps were heard in the corridor  the door was opened and in stalked the thin black  haired hooknosed solemnlooking gentleman dressed in  black whom he knew to be Dr Grim The medical  man was followed by Squire Philimore   Come here to the doctor Philibert said the squire  in a tone which made his son feel that the summons  must instantly be obeyed Slowly and very unwill  ingly wishing Dr Grim a thousand miles off the hungry  boy put down his fork and approached the medical man  Dr Grim felt Philiberts pulse examined his tongue  looked at his cheek I do not observe any trace of a  rash such as you mentioned he said to the squire in a  peculiarly deep and solemn voice such as he might have  sjioken with had he been telling a patient that he was  going to die  It went off as suddenly as it came on sir said  Mary to whom the puzzled squire looked for an ex  planation  Again the doctor solemnly laid his cold fingers upon  Philiberts fat little wrist Not a bad pulse he  gloomily observed whatever he might say his manner  was gloomy Pray continued Dr Grim addressing  himself to Mary have you noticed anything peculiar  about the young gentleman   He has been exceedingly odd sir in his ways both  yesterday and today   What had he for dinner yesterday inquired the  doctor while poor Philibert hungry as a raven was  stealing furtive glances at the dinnertable to which he  longed to return   Veal cutlets sir replied Mary   Veal cutlets most unwholesome 1 said the doctor   that would account for any derangement of the system  Did the boy eat anything besides   Greengage tart sir but he scarcely would touch it  he said that it tasted like soap  The doctor nodded his head very gravely That  shows that something was wrong he observed   Wrong with the tart not with me exclaimed  Philibert who could not restrain his impatience even in  the presence of his father and the medical man for whom  he had a considerable awe   The tart was as good a one as ever was baked  observed Mary I tasted it myself and Master Pierce  enjoyed it very much but then he had not touched the  veal cutlets  Again the doctor nodded his head like one who begins  to see his way clearly   You said Mary that my boy awoke this morning  with a scream observed Squire Philimore   A dreadful scream sir as if he were frightened out  of his wits and yesterday he roared out at dinner  Master Pierce heard him as well as myself He cried  out that something had stung him on the ear but  though we searched in every direction nothing could be  found that could possibly have hurt him  What a blab she is muttered Philibert if shed  had such a stinging as I had shed have roared out her  self like a bulL   I am sure that Master Philibert could not have felt  well this morning he was so very fidgety and cross   I was quite well and I am quite well never better  in my life exclaimed Philibert angrily trying but in  vain to draw his wrist from the cold grasp of the  doctor s fingers   My dear young patient said Dr Grim in his slow  solemn way you are not competent to judge whether  you are or are not in good health Loss of appetite in  one so young is not a favourable symptom  Im as hungry as a hound as a whole pack of  hounds cried out poor Philibert desperately   But you had a distate for a nice greengage tart and   as Ive heard from your father you scarcely touched  your breakfast this morning It is clear that you are  not as well as we wish you to be but I think here the  doctor turned and addressed himself to the squire I  think that we can soon put matters to rights I will  send a little medicine to be taken at night  Philibert made a wry face he knew too well by  experience what the doctors medicine was like  And in the meantime continued Dr Grim our  young patient who is of somewhat too full a habit must  be kept to very light and simple diet He must be  given nothing but weak beeftea barleygruel and toast  and water  Such a sentence was dreadful to the famishing boy   I want my roastbeef he exclaimed and but for the  presence of the squire and the doctor Philibert would  have stamped and roared with disappointment and pas  sion   Weak beeftea and barleygruel repeated Dr Grim  with grave decision and he must not fail to take the  medicine at night Any one can see that the poor child  is suffering the tears were rolling down Philiberts  cheeks but he was only suffering from disappointment  hunger and passion   I am glad however that you seem to think that  nothing very serious is the matter with my poor little  man said the squire I thought myself that his com  plaint was only from a little overfeeding   Veal cutlets he must never touch again observed  the doctor   Sydney my boy Im afraid that your roastbeef is  getting cold said the kindhearted squire turning  to wards his little guest who had been patiently waiting  till the doctor should leave before beginning his meal   Set to your dinner and eat plenty theres no fear of  your taking too much And you Marj go to the cook  and see about the beeftea and the barleygruel at once   I hate gruel I never can touch it maynt I have  plumpudding at least almost sobbed out Philibert   Plumpudding echoed the doctor looking as he  might have done had his patient asked for a dish of  poison Beeftea and gruel and not much of them  must you have for your dinner if you touch either  meat or pudding Ill not be answerable for the conse  quences  And perhaps the doctor was not very far wrong after  all though of course the effects of Fairy Friskets sting  brush and wand had misled him as they had misled the  squire and Mary for none of his learned books had made  any mention of fairies Poor greedy Philibert was pro  bably none the worse for a day of fasting for he was as  the medical man had observed of too full a habit being  usually inclined to eat more than was really good for  his health But a miserable day was passed by the  spoiled and selfindulgent child who was tortured with  actual hunger so that he almost envied the natives of  Africa their dish of whiteants or termites  CHAPTER XIY  Id be a butterfly  HILIBERT PHILIMORE had gone to sleep  hungry and he awoke more hungry still  never before in the course of his life had the  squires pampered boy felt such a craving for  food It did cross his mind that it must be  a dreadful thing to be poor and hungry every day in  the year Philibert now could feel some real pity for  the Garlands the sick father unable to work the thin  children who for months had not known what it was to  eat until they were satisfied for what Sydney and the  squire had liberally bestowed had chiefly gone to pay  rent It would be an excellent lesson for many a spoiled  child who cares nothing for the sufferings of the poor  were he to feel as Philibert did for one day how keen  are the pangs of hunger  Philibeit was not only inclined to be more ready to  pity but perhaps for the first time he had known  something of the feeling of gratitude Sydney had  been very kind indeed to his young companion when he  believed him to be unwell and knew that he was pining  for solid food Sydney had read aloud in the evening  till his throat had grown weary and hoarse and had  then tried to amuse Philibert in every other way that  he could think of Sydney had even given away to the  squires son the present which he himself had been pre  paring for his mother a beautiful little model of the  old gateway of Fairydell Hall which he with great  labour and care had cut out of old corks gumming  little bits of moss over parts of it to give the effect of  ivy No brother could have been kinder to Philibert  than Sydney had been no sister more gentle and  thoughtful his conduct had had a far more softening  effect upon Philibert Philimore than Fairy Friskets  stingbrush or even her greentipped wand  Oh Mary will you never get breakfast ready  exclaimed the impatient boy I can eat at least half  a dozen eggs so mind that you bring me plenty T   Indeed Master Philibert I doubt that you should  have one before you see Dr Grim again  But I must and will have one cried Philibert   I should like one as big as my head Do make as  much haste as you can for I am dying of hunger 1  If Philibert was only allowed to have one egg and  that not a large one for breakfast he made up for this  by his vigorous foray upon the slices of bread and butter  Mary could hardly spread and cut them as fast as her  young charge ate them and Sydney could not help  laughing to see how the loaf wb disappearing under the  attacks of Philiberts appetite The squires son enjoyed  his breakfast as much as if the fairy had stirred his food  with the golden end of her wand and Mary felt satisfied  that nothing was now the matter with her tioublesome  charge  After breakfast the two boys went out as usual into  the delightful grounds which surrounded Fairydell HalL   I should like to have another hunt for that horrid  antlion said Philibert Philimore  Happily for the little gravedigger as Sydney  called the insect his sandy pitfall was not to be found  and Fhilibert amused himself with running races on the  lawn with Sydney Pierce more to his own enjoyment  than to that of his guest for Sydney though strength  ened by his visit to Fairydell Hall waa yet too delicate  to be fit for any violent exercise While Sydney was  stopping to recover his breath pressing his hand against  his side Philibert caught sight of a beautiful butterfly  and instantly gave chase to the insect  Now butterflies are as may be supposed special pets  of the fairies who look upon them much as ladies look  upon their favourite poodles or parrots As it happened  this butterfly was not only a pet of Frisket but actually  on its way to a grand assembly of butterflies and moths  to which that fairy had invited it We may imagine  then the displeasure Mith which Lady Frisket who  chanced to be hovering near saw the squires son rushing  after her guest now almost clapping his hand over the  fluttering insect now baffled and panting hurrying in  some other direction after the prey just escaped from his  grasp Faiiy Frisket flew to the rescue and puisuing  the boy as the boy pursued the insect gave Philibert a  violent hit with her stingbrush on the back of his hand  just as he had succeeded in capturing the butterfly prize  Philibert utttaed a howl not only of pain but of  passion and punished the unfortunate insect for the deed  of the fairy by dashing it fiercely to the ground  Oh dont kill it dont hurt it exclaimed Syd  ney Pierce running to the spot to plead for the beauti  ful creature Why should you be so angry with the  pretty butterfly It never did you any harm   Harm I if youd been stung as Im stung youd not  say that exclaimed Philibert who looked ready to  stamp with fuiy upon the poor injured creature at his  feet   The butterfly never stung you it has no sting  said Sydney   I got stung in catching it Philibert replied   That was surely no fault of the butterfly it never  asked or wished you to meddle with it observed Syd  ney with a smile  Philibert was in no mood to bear even the mildest joke   Ill not have you laughing at me he cried fiercely   and why should you dare to interfere if I choose to  smash all the butterflies in the world So saying  Philibert stamped his cruel foot upon the helpless crea  ture and killed it   Its too bad to torment or kill any of Gods crea  tures just because they are weak and cant defend them  selves ciied Sydney whose gentle and generous spirit  always rose against wanton cruelty My mother says   I dont care a straw what your mother says and 1  wont have you lecturing me a little wretched puny  creature that you are cried Philibert all the more ex  cited with passion from Friskets having given him a  second sharp rap this time across the bridge of his nose   I am your guest Philibert Philimore said the in  dignant Sydney who would never himself have insulted  any one while on a visit to his home   I know that well enough retorted Philibert hold  ing his nose and half dancing with pain glad enough  you are to come from your smoky den of a house and  get our good roast beef and plumpudding instead of  endless codliver oil  The insolent taunt stung Sydney to the quick had  his mother been at her home to receive him he would  have asked the squire to let him instantly return thither  but her absence in Scotland tied him as it were to the  dwelling of the meanspirited inhospitable boy who  loved thus to insult his guest Sydneys heart seemed  to rise into his throat and it was certainly no feeling of  fear that prevented his returning the taunt with a blow  But Sydney remembered that Ae that ruleth his spirit  is greater than he that taketh a city and restraining  himself from uttering even a retort he turned from the  squires spoiled son and went off into the shade of the  wood Sydney could not have trusted himself at that  moment to utter a single wotd  Few things calm a troubled spirit so much as a quiet  saunter amongst green trees and the other fair objects of  nature Sydneys anger had been very hot but it soon  cooled down when he found himself alone under the  spreading beeches All was so peaceful and beautiful  there A sense of wrong however rested on the mind  of the boy Sydney remembered how hard he had tried  to make Philibert happy how he had given to him  what his own dear mother would have valued so much  how he had been as kind and thoughtful towards the  squires son as if he had been his own brother It is  hard to bear rudeness under any circumstances but  doubly hard when it comes in return for unselfish kind  ness Sydney as he sauntered along the mossy wood  land path hummed to himself one of his mothers  favourite songs which had been written by Shake  speare   Blow blow thou winter wind  Thou art not so unkind  As mans ingratitude  Thy tooth is not so keen  Because thou art not seen  Although thy breath be rude  Heighho sing heighho unto the green holly  Most friendship is feigning most loving mere folly  Then heighho the holly I  This life is most jolly   Freeze freeze thou bitter sky  Thou dost not bite so nigh  As benefits forgot  Though thou the waters warp  Thy sting is not so sharp  As friend remembered not  Heighho sing heighho unto the green holly  Moat friendship is feigning most loving mere folly  Then heighho the holly  This life is most jolly  Sydney was just finishing the last line of Shake  speares song when he saw something on the path before  him which attracted his attention It was neither  forestflower nor lichen nor curious insect It was a  pretty little pearl brooch which had been a birthday  present to Philibert and which the squires son con  stantly used to fasten his collar   Ah theres Philiberts brooch the jewel that he  is so proud of wearing exclaimed Sydney aloud as he  picked it up from the moss in which it was lying em  bedded He must have dropped it while he was hunt  ing for the antlion here in the wood Well if he loses  it he gets what he deserves I dont see why I should  take the brooch to such a thankless illtempered boy  let it lie there till he find it Im sure I dont care if he  never does Sydney dropped the jewel on the moss  walked two or three paces from the spot and then paused  Am I doing what is right he said still speaking  aloud little dreaming that any one could hear him   Am I not showing a spirit of mean revenge and act  ing as I would 710 like another to act towards me  No no I must forgive as I would wish to be forgiven  myself Ill take tlie brooch to Pliilibert directly lie  may now be in trouble from its loss  Again Sydney stooped and picked up the jewel but  as he raised himself what was his astonishment at be  holding poised upon a long curling fernleaf the most  beautiful little creature that ever had met his gaze  8YDNEY FINDS THE BKOOCiJ  There was Frisket herself with her fluttering gossamer  robe her tiny wand her transparent wings and th  golden feEissel which she had just pulled hanging from  her bright girdle In his start of delighted surprise  Sydney again dropped the brooch   Child of earth said the musical voice of the fairy   well may you gaze with surprise upon her whose form  was never before visible to one of your race I have  twice seen your triumph over self your pity for the poor  your obedience to your mother and now your generous  forgiveness towards one who so little deserves it I have  watched your control over your temper your watch over  your lips your compassion for the helpless and weak  You have made me break my firm resolve never to show  myself to one of the race of mankind I thank you for  pleading for my poor little guest I thank you for show  ing that mercy which seems so little natural to the human  species  Confused blushing scarcely knowing how to answer  so singular an address from the bright little being be  fore him Sydney replied to Frisket I am very glad  indeed lady fairy if I have done anything to please you  But I think that there must be some mistake I could not  show mercy to a fairy I can hardly suppose that any  friend of yours could ever need my help or my jleading   No indeed replied the smiling Frisket who was  amused at such an idea no fairy friend would ever  require aid from any poor mortal But a fairys guest  might and did tle poor butterfly crushed by your  cruel companion was on her way to visit me by special  invitation I have summoned all the butterflies and  moths that haunt the garden and pleasuregrounds of  Fairydell Hall to meet me at Violet Dell a retired spot  in this wood They will there recite their own deeds  whether as caterpillar grub or winged creature and  give an account of their labours in providing homes for  their future offspring I have promised to the insect  that shall be found to excel the rest in industry and  skill that as a reward I will tip her wings with gold  I will then feast all my guests upon honeydew and  dance with them a round in the air under the sunshiny  sky   What a pretty sight it will be exclaimed Sydney  to whom this butteiflies ball with a fairy for hostess  seemed something delightful and strange   Would you like to see it asked Frisket   Oh above all things cried Sydney   Then you shall take the place of my poor little  favourite said Frisket and for one hour animate the  beautiful form out of which that cruel boy stamped the  innocent life  Sydney began to consider whether he would wish to  accept the unexpected offer of the fairy It might be  well to see or to sing about a butterflys ball and a  grasshoppers feast but to enjoy an insects pleasure at  the risk of sharing that insects fate would be quite a  different thing Fairy Frisket was however too quick  in her movements to allow much time for reflection  Sydney merely caught a glimpse of her fluttering robe  as she flew towards him pomatum in hand and before he  could utter a word a word in human language I mean   down dropped his form on the moss and fern where  it lay for an houi under a tree wrapped in the deepest  slumber At the same moment the poor butterfly which  Philibert had crushed suddenly spread its bruised and  injured wings animated by the mind of the boy The  insect flew towards a retired space in the wood all sur  rounded by hawthorn holly and larches garlanded by  wild roses and blackberry sprays and carpeted with moss  so green that any one acquainted with the tastes of  fairies must have guessed that it was one of their  favourite haunts So thick was the brushwood so  tangled the foliage that the clearing in the wood was as  much shut out from the view of man as if it had been  fenced round with marble walls No human foot had  ever left its print upon that soft carpet of moss In  springtime the air of the fairy dell had been fragrant  with violets from which Frisket had given it its name  the violets had long ago faded but pretty little pinlc  convolvuli tinted the ground and the tall purple fox  glove shook its speckled bells osrer the grass In spring  the nightingale had sung all night long from a hazel  bush while fairies danced to his music the nightingale  had long been silent but the squirrel leaped from bough  to bough and cracked the nuts of the hazel and the  robin hopped lightly on the spray and uttered ever and  anon that cheerful note which would be heard even when  winter should have come to strip the trees of their  foliage A little bubbling runlet of water very shallow  and very clear flowed through Violet Dell singing its  own soft song making the moss still greener and kissing  the pretty wild flowers that trembled over its brim The  spot was quiet and lovely well suited for a fairy queen  to hold her court in when she called around her the  brightwinged creatures of the air It was such a spot  as Shakespeare may have had in his minds eye when  he wrote his wellknown song   I know a bank whereon the wildthyme blows  Where oxlip and the nodding violet grows  There sleeps the fairy queen there sleeps some times o the nights  Lulled in their flowers with dances and delights  CHAPTER XY  BUTTERFLIES MEETING  H this is delightful this is enchanting cried  Sydney Pierce in butteifly language about  which hangs the same mystery as about that  of the ant None of the Lepidoptera species  such is the long name given to the race of butterflies  and moths except the deathshead moth is I believe  known to utter any sound which human beings would  call a voice Butterflies do not roar or bark or bray  or mew they neither screech nor sing but we may  suppose that like our friends the ants the fourwinged  Lepidoptera have some way of speaking to each other  with their quivering antennae  It was indeed very delightful to Sydney upon that  bright morning in August to be able to spread wings  to the light breeze and to bask in the glowing sunshine  Who that can imagine the pleasure enjoyed by a butter  fly during a life which is sometimes measured but by  hours would wish to shorten that little span of delight  It had been amusing to Sydney to find himself in the  shape of a pismire able to enter and to explore a dark  anthill But how much greater was his enjoyment  now when he rose aloft in the air and joined the gay  throng of Lepidoptera that were hurrying from all quar  ters to join the fete given by Fairy Frisket 1  Near the little sparkling stream the fairy sat on her  mossy throne to receive her guests The throne was  bedecked with every variety of wild flower that could  be found in wood hedge or mead at that season  every one of them spangled and tasselled with dew  drops that sparkled like manycoloured jewels A rose  beetle beautiful insect like a great emerald in his  armour of glossy green had crept to the place to act  as the fairys footstool he feared not the pressure of  her light foot Fairy Knowabit sat at his sisters side  to assist her judgment and Sydney saw with pleasure  the familiar form of his acquaintance the learned fay  But even Knowabit had come to the butterflies feast in  brighter garb than that in which Sydney had seen him  when the home of the fairy was the large rededged  book in Squire Philimores study A gossamer robe of  light green half covered Knowabit s students gown  though of course the robe being thinner than gauze it  was easy to see through it every fold of the garment  beneath it A tiny white plume of thistledown adorned  the fairys black cap and being stuck on one side of  it gave him quite a dashing appearance  What an assemblage of butterflies came fluttering  through the air at the call of Fairy Frisket Sydney  had had no idea that there were so many kinds of  winged creatures in England as appeared now in Violet  Dell Some indeed came from various counties and  except on such an extraordinary occasion as this would  not have been found together But a meeting of the  Lepidoptera held by a fairy is not a thing that happens  every day or even every year  There were the fritillaries the silverwashed with  the under side of its burnished green wings streaked with  silver and the pearl bordered fritillary ornamented  with delicate spots like the gems of the sea The  brimstone and clouded yellow butterflies appeared gor  geous in orange and gold looking all the gayer by their  contrast to the smaller tawny heath butterflies that had  fluttered to Violet Dell from their home on the nearest  common A host of little blue butterflies appeared  seeming to the fancy of Sydney like moving azure  blossoms There were the chalkhill blue the pretty  holly blue and the dear little Bedford blue the tiniest  of British butterflies From the top of an oaktree  came down in stately majesty the purple emperor and  the pretty paintedlady followed close behind him The  handsome cabbagebutterflies the white greenveined  and orangetipped left the squires kitchengarden to  appear at the court of the fairy There Sydney beheld  the magnificent peacockbutterfly with large eyelike spots  on its wings and the beautiful dappled tortoiseshell  throwing into the shade the tribe of modest little brown  skippers which some think to be connecting links between  butterflies and moths Moths be it known a genus  called by the learned Phalaena may be known from their  butterfly brothers and sisters by having no little knobs at  the end of their feelers These little knobs like the but  tons of Chinese mandarins serve to distinguish the more  dignified butterfly from the more lowly moth It would be  a great mistake to suppose that all moths are graytinted  dull little creatures or all butterflies splendid and gay  SOME OF THE VISITORS TO VIOLET DELL  One of Fairy Friskets most splendid guests was the  red admiral that to grace her feast appeared long  before his usual season his rich dark wings streaked  with broad bands of red and white Of course there  BUTTERFLY AND MOTH  were plenty of white butterflies whose appearance is  familiar to every one who has lived in the country  but Sydney had never seen before one yellow and black  flutterer large in size and very peculiar in shape her  hinder wings seeming to be lengthened into tails from   It must have been owing to a fairy spell that such a variety of the Lepidoptera  species appeared in the month of August Some butterflies have both a spring and an  autumn brood The copper butterfly it is said has three broods in the year But  my young readers unless specially invited by Fairy Frisket must not expect to find  all of her guests in any one month of the year any more than in any one county of  England The brimstone butterfly for instance though common in the south of  England is not frequent in the midland counties It is found in gardens and flelds  sometimes on a sunny morning as early as February or March  which no doubt the handsome swallowtail butterfly has  been given its name  With the butterflies came a vast host of moths  Sydney saw the  goldtailed moth  and the small  ermine moth  whose larvae so  destroy the  beauty of our  hawthorn trees  in the summer  Then came the  lackey moth  whose caterpillar had worn so gay a livery of blue yellow  and white With these appeared the small gray and  gieen oakmoth and the beautiful tigermoth in robes  of scarlet white and brown the creature that in its  caterpillar state is so very well known by the name of  woolly bear It is strange that a creeping bear should  thus change into a winged tiger  But I must not linger now to describe all the butter  flies and moths or even to name them Sydney wished  that as in parties given by the human race there were  some one to announce each guest by name on his or her  first arrival The little hour during which the power  of the fancy pomatum lasted was not nearly long  enough to enable Sydney to hear all the speeches  made by various members of the gay meeting I shall  but give the few which he heard with curiosity and  amusement as one by one the butterflies and noths  preferred their claims to the prize offered to them by  the fairy  First came the coarse stout goatmoth which brushed  hastily past butterfly Sydney leaving a veiy disagree  able odour behind her The manner of the goatmoth  was forward and bold she seemed to think that she  had a right to speak before every one else perhaps on  account of her age for she had been a larva caterpillar  for three whole years before she had become a moth  This is a very long life for an insect and had given the  goatmoth an opportunity of doing a great deal of cater  pillar work  Ive just come from my home in the old willow  tree cried the goatmoth and I wish lady faiiy  that you had chosen some better hour for your meeting  for every one who knows my habits is aware that I hate  flying about by daylight 1   I am sorry to have put you to inconvenience lady  Goatmoth said Fairy Frisket politely as she bent  down her head over a leaf of sweetbrier which was to  her what a scentbottle and a fan are to a lady The  pretty fairy was too wellmannered to express what she  felt but she wished that the goatmoth would say her  say quickly and fly back again as fast as she chose to  her old willowtree  I have little doubt that I shall both win your  favour and gain your prize continued the goatmoth  coming much nearer to the fairy than was at all plea  sant to a being possessing such a delicate sense of smell   Ive famous jaws that is I had when I was a larva   and theres not one of the Lepidoptera that better  knew how to use them The goatmoth looked proudly  around her as she spoke as if to defy the whole host of  butterflies and moths to match her exploits If you  fly to my old home lady fairy youll see how Ive  tunnelled and bored making passages for myself now  just under the bark now right inwards to the very heart  of the tree I should not wonder the goatmoth went  on if the very next gale blew the willow right down   Ive so weakened it with my boring and then I  may boast that a single caterpillar has laid a tree low in  the dust  A murmur of surprise was heard through the assembly  of butterflies and moths   I was not only clever in digging and boring said  the goatmoth but skilled in housemaking also I  wish that I could have carried hither my curious cocoon  but Ive not half the strength now as a moth that I  had when I was a caterpillar I fonned my cocoons  I had more than one of woodchips of various sizes  nicely fastened together upon a silken framework You  observe that my boring in wood supplied me with plen  tiful store of building materials besides the elegant silk  with which nature had furnished me in common with  many other caterpillars   I have had the pleasure of seeing one of your in  genious cocoons lady Goatmoth said Fairy Frisket   it was so large that if cut in twain I could have used  it for two footbaths This was the fairys way of de  scribing the size of a cocoon about two inches long for  not being learned like her brother the fairy knew  nothing of the terms of measurement used by mankind   I am glad that you have seen it cried the goat  moth I hope that you noticed its beauty  To own the truth replied Fairy Frisket the  cocoon appeared to me to be rather rough as if it were  made of sawdust   But the inside the inside cried the goatmoth  nothing can be smoother and neater than it was I  polished it up to the highest degree and then took a  long nap in it during the winter lying as snugly in my  wooden cocoon as any bee in her waxen cell  Knowabit who till now had been silent though  looking as he always did very wise grave and atten  tive here put in a word I may be mistaken he  observed but I think that our clever friend here the  lady Goatmoth has been mentioned in ancient books  and that her larva is the famous Cossus or treegrub  that was well known to the Romans  The antennae of the goatmoth quivered with pride  and she looked as conceited and saucy as a moth could  possibly look Her deeds were then recorded in books   and by Romans She knew not what Romans might  be but supposed that they were probably some race of  gigantic men ad fairies never publish any kind of  works and though some insects eat books none have  ever yet been known to write any  And what did the Romans say of my distinguished  ancestors asked the goatmoth proudly   They said that they were good eating replied  Knowabit  Fairy Frisket polite as she was could hardly refrain  from laughing as the poor goatmoth dropped her wings  in sudden mortification at an answer so unexpected It  seemed no great honour or pleasure to be eaten by  Romans whatever they might be  Knowabit to comfort the poor insect to whose  pride he had given so sudden a fall observed   The larva of the goatmoth is I know very remark  able for its prodigious strength which allowing for the  vast difference between their sizes is far greater than  that of the most powerful man Members of the human  race often pride themselves on their strength of body  they each possess about five hundred and twentynine  muscles or organs of motion by which they turn them  selves lift burdens bend rise walk and work do what  soever ihey will But you  Madam Moth in your larva  state were possessed of more  than four thousand muscles  and could by means of V X VF  them if I mistake not raise f U W  with ease a weight more  than ten times greater than  your own  That is wonderful  exclaimed butterfly Sydney  It would puzzle one to find  a man who could easily carry on his back ten other men  as heavy as himself   Were it not taking up too much of the time of this  honourable assembly cried the goatmoth I should  like to prove to them how great was my strength by  relating an adventure which befell me this very year  when I had the misfortune to fall into the hands of  cruel man  Is it possible that after falling into the hands of  man you should live to tell of your adventure ex  claimed Fairy Frisket   No thanks to him said the goatmoth I owed  my escape not to mans mercy but to that prodigious  Strength to which the honourable and learned fairy  on your right hand did me the honour just now to  allude   Let us hear the story of a caterpillar s adventures  madam said Knowabit and though as it seemed to  Sydney some of the butterflies shook their wings im  patiently being more eager to tell their own stories  than to listen to that of the goatmoth no one ven  tured to object and the stout sturdy insect thus told  her tale  CHAPTER XVI  ADVENTURES OF A CATERPILLAR  W WILL not long detain you I see that some of my  hearers are a little impatient with an account  of my tunnelling and boring in my favourite old  willowtree One day last spring as I was  making my way through a bit of the timber  particularly tough and hard I was startled by a horrible  noise and a sudden shock which sent such a thrill through  my frame as I could never forget were I to live as I  know that I shall not for three more summers and win  ters A very little time passed and then again came  that terrible sound the whole tree seemed to quiver and  shake and then suddenly the daylight the unwelcome  daylight which I shun flashed upon me Some being  of the human race was cutting down with a bright sharp  instrument a branch from the tree in which I was  dwelling  It was the first time that I had ever seen a man and  certainly he looked to me a horrible monster while he  seemed to think not much better of me   Heres an ugly grub he observed thats eating  its way right into the wood I wonder now what they  call it Ill take it home and keep it My boy is coming  from London tomorrow and hes curious about all these  strange kinds of creatures maybe hell like to examine  this one Ill put it by in the little drawer of my  table  So the man carried me home I think that I can feel  now the pressure of his horrid hard rough fingers Hap  pily for me my captor had not far to go for the willow  grew hard by his home and he wanted to keep not  to kill me I was soon shut up in darkness quite  securely as he supposed in his dealwood drawer   Ha ha laughed I to myself heres a fine wide  tunnel that man has bored and very neatly he has done  it Theres plenty of room for me to turn myself here  But if that blundering fellow thinks that he can keep  the freebom caterpillar of a goatmoth his prisoner here  hell find he is very much mistaken  So feeling quite at home at that kind of labour I set  to work with my good strong jaws at the side of the  drawer in which I was confined The wood was harder  than that of my willow but what cared I for that  My muscles were strong my spirit was bold before  night was over I had gnawed my way right through the  side of the drawer and when the daylight dawned I was  crawling down what the man had called a table I might  have thought it the stem of a sapling tree but that it  had neither sap within it nor bark upon it  It now appeared to me that all my worst troubles  were yet to come I suppose that I was in one of mans  dwellings I dont know whether he calls it a cocoon  but if a cocoon it be it is one of prodigious size and it  puzzled even the grub of a goatmoth to know how to  make her way out of it  As I was wondering in which direction I should turn  to my horror in came my human enemy and almost put  his foot upon me as I was crawling over the floor   Why if that caterpillar has not eaten its way out  he exclaimed What jaws the ugly creature must  have But Ill put it into a tumbler it cant bite  through glass Ill be bound  Again he took up his unlucky prisoner and writhe  and twist as I might I could not escape from those  dreaded fingers which held me so firmly I was dropped  into a bright kind of cocoon that looked as if made of  pure water for I was able to see right through it it did  not shade me at all from the daylight as my dear old  willow had done But this was by no means the worst  of it This tumbler was a hundred times harder than  any wood that I ever had met with In vain I tried to  bite the smooth slippery surface the man had spoken  txo truly not even the grub of a goatmoth could make  its way through what he had called glass  Im a lost caterpillar sighed I as I lay at the  bottom of the tumbler quite worn out with my fruitless  efforts But I did not lie long inactive in my prison   Up and be doing never despair is the motto of the  goatmoth larva I am not only strong to bite I said  to myself I am also clever to spin I can not only  bore a tunnel through wood I can make a ladder of silk  Gaining new vigour and courage from hope I instantly  set to work I found to my joy that though my jaws  could make no mark upon glass yet that my gummy  silk would stick to its surface Bravely I went on with  my labour and before very long my strong wedgeshaped  head was peeping over the edge of the tumbler   How shall I descend now thought I I must let  myself down as I helped myself up by a silken ladder  I might have saved myself the trouble of thinking for  the man my tormentor at that moment caught sight  of his active prisoner   Why if this lively caterpillar isnt making its es  cape again he exclaimed The creature seems re  solved to get off one way or another but Im more than  a match for a giub though I never saw the like of this  one  So saying my tormentor knocked me down again to  the bottom of my glass cocoon or prison and then  suddenly turned it over giving me another tumble in  the tumbler on the hard surface of what I heard the  man call a plate The hard sUppery shining glass  now shut me in above as well as all around so that  there could be no possible use in climbing Below me  was the plate just as hard as the glass so that there  was not any weak point which I could attack with my  jaws   Now 111 put a good heavy book on the tumbler to  keep it down said the man and my ugly grub will  be kept as secure as if locked up in an iron safe while I  go to meet my boy at the railwaystation  I layrery still in my shining prison till the man had  quitted the place Notwithstanding my fatigue my dis  appointments and my bruises neither my courage nor  my strength had failed me yet As soon as I felt sure  of not being observed I crept round the edge of the glass  trying to find any place where it did not quite touch the  plate so that I might see some opening be it ever so  small into which I might squeeze my hard wedgeshaped  head Happily for me just in one part there was either  a trifling sinking in the plate or a trifling rise in the  glass for the two did not exactly fit the one to the  other and air from without came through Here was  an opportunity not to be lost by the grub of a goat  moth Now were my four thousand muscles to be  brought into play The glass was moderately heavy  the book was tremendously heavy but I was strong  bold and determined and I knew that my liberty if  not my life depended upon the success of the eflTort  which I was making  A fearful effort it was With my head I lifted glass  and book a little then a little more never surely before  had caterpillar attempted so difficult a feat My whole  head was squeezed under my prison at last and where  the head can manage to go the whole body can generally  manage to follow Ha ha I laugh whenever I re  member that day to think how the huge man must have  looked when he came back with his boy to find the glass  tumbler empty with the big book resting upoHn it and  the caterpillar nowhere to be seen  I was pretty well knocked up by the time that I had  drawn my whole length through and I stopped to curl  myself up and rest for a little but I dared not rest long  for I had a great deal of ground to crawl over and I  feared that the man would return before I could hide my  self out of his sight Luckily for me he had left the door  of his great cocoon open for what with gnawing and  spinning and climbing and pushing and lifting and  crawling what seemed to be a terribly long way I had  no strength left as you may believe for any more boring  through wood Much as I dislike the daylight I was  glad enough to find myself once more in the free open  air and not far from my own willowtree How I man  aged to reach it I scarcely can think I would have  given anything then for the wings with which I fly now  that the caterpillar has been changed into the moth  But were I now to fall again into the hands of barbar  ous man as I heartily hope that I never may do I could  not now gnaw my way through the drawer I could not  now spin my ladder of silk I could not now lift both  tumbler and book I could but beat my wings against  the glass in helpless despair Yes I could no longer  perform these feats of strength and of skill which must  have filled the mind of man himself with admiration and  amazement  CHAPTER XVII  BORERS WEAVERS AND LEAFROLLERS  HEN the goatmoth had finished her tale there  was a great clapping not of course of hands  but of wings and then a few seconds of silence  There was not another member of the Lepi  doptera race present that could boast of such  feats of strength and the goatmoth looked proudly  around her as if certain that uo rival would dare to con  tend with her for the prize of the fairy  A very small moth called the wolfmoth had the  courage however to come forward into the middle of the  circle formed by the winged tribes around the floweiy  throne While the most splendid butterflies kept modest  silence the wolfmoth thus addressed Fairy Frisket   If your prize lady fairy said she were ofifered to  the largest and strongest of our race I should certainly  not have taken the trouble to come here to try to win it  I cannot lift up a prison on my head and as for the  number of my muscles I do not believe that the sharpest  eyed mortal would ever attempt to count them But  the prize is offered to the member of the Lepidoptera  race that has shown most skill in making her home  Now if Mrs Goatmoth is a great borer I am a great  borer also if she digs her way into old willowtrees I  make mine through hard deal planks If I am not so  big and so strong as she is my work is all the more  curious   Oh as for boring were all famous for that ex  claimed a whole host of clearwing moths of which some  looked to the eye of Sydney like wasps and some like  gnats though they were neither so that he wondered  to see them at all amongst the Lepidoptera   And so am I so am I cried the pretty leopard  moth waving her feathery antennae and her white wings  delicately speckled with black Look at the squires  fruittrees Ask his gardener what enemy he fears to  find in the wood of his apple walnut and pear trees  We all know how to tunnel and bore and make our  selves snug beneath the rough bark which covers us in  like a wall  It seemed to butterfly Sydney that the smaller the  winged creature might be the more ready it appeared to  answer for itself for a tiny erminemoth was the next to  flutter into the circle  Really it seems to me she said pertly as if all  these ladies clearwmg goat  moth and the ret thought that  there is nothing in the wnrld to  be hiiie but to lore and that to make  holes in live tiees or dead wood hi the  unly woik worthy nf a grub I like tcj  labour in thu light where men can see  me and not to laliour all by myRelfj but  in the society uf hundreds ol companions  We are workers nut in wood but in silk  we vseave thick webs anjnnd lioth trunk  Hand branches of tiees   I have chanced to hear at the Hall  innineniuth observed Fairy Knowabit   that yinn ract have devoured every leaf  nfT some of the hawthorns in the parks and  sijnares of London till the unfortunate  trees were in June as bare as they would be in De  cember  Pray do not address me as erminemoth our race are  accustomed to town life and town manners said the  tiny creature and there we are known by the name of  Iponymeuta Padella And pray let us not be reproached  with eating up the leaves of the May trees Many  mouths make light work The leaves grow again on the  boughs which we have stripped when we take our chry  salis nap and while other trees look dusty and black  with the smoke of London those on which we have  feasted burst out into foliage to enjoy a second spring  Few of the winged tribes have their work so much  noticed by men as ours The whole stem of a May tree  will sometimes be entirely swathed in a robe of grayish  silk in which thousands of the spinning and weaving  Iponymeuta Padella make their abode Man would will  ingly drive us out or smoke us out but ha ha ha our  numbers baffle his powers he may slay the largest  fiercest beasts in creation he may force the horse and  the ox to serve him and do his bidding but the tiny  Iponymeuta Padella keeps her own hawthorntree in the  very midst oi mans greatest city in spite of all his ill  wilL   I hope that I may be allowed to speak for just a  few moments said the pretty little oakmoth as with a  timid air she came forward My work and that of my  sisters does not show  the strength of jaw  possessed by the  borers nor perhaps  the amount of labour  I displayed by the spin  ners of the Lepidop  tera race yet may it  be thought not unwor  thy of the attention  of this great assembly  My friend the choco  late coloured lilac moth  yonder has asked me to  Bjjak for her as well as for  myself as we leafrollers are a  shy modest race not at all accus  tomed to come forward on grand  occasions like this We make  our homes in the leaves of the  Tarious trees after which we are named  rolling these leaves into tents and fasten  ing them together into whatever shape  ijxay Vjest suit us by thread of silk which  we spin The advantage which we find  in this way of housing ourselves is this  our leaf supplies us at once with board  and lodging we live on the leaf while we live in the  leaf we can never know want for we eat the house  which we dwell in Then shyly begging the pardon  of the fairy and all the butterflies and moths for having  detained them so long the oakmoth spread her delicate  leafygreen wings and flew back to the side of her choco  latecoloured friend the moth that rolls up the leaves of  the lilac   Let none despise the art of leafrolling cried the  splendid red admiral butterfly or as the learned call her  the Vanessa Atalanta I and my friend here the  painted lady both choose the same way of foiming a home  for ourselves I have a fancy for nettles and she for the  leaf of the thistle The sting of the nettle alarms not my  bold caterpillar though the human race seem to dread it  and the tough spik thistleleaf yields to the strength of  the ladys powerful larva who bends it at her good plea  sure to form the wall of her dwelling  CHAPTER XVIII  THE LIFE OP A BUTTERFLY  YDNEY had listened with such curiosity and  interest to the accounts given by various in  sects of their way of forming their dwellings  that he had excited the attention of a beautiful  peacockbutterfly that chanced to be near him  If butterflies appear lovely even to the human eye  that cannot distinguish the plumage on their wings from  dust how exquisite did they seem to the microscopic  sight of Sydney As he looked on the wing of the  peacockbutterfly beside him he beheld it covered with  tens of thousands of the most delicate scales one over  lapping another arranged in regular rows and tinted  with the loveliest hues Never had he beheld any  work of human art to be compared for finished beauty  with that bright butterflys wing Perhaps the peacock  was pleased with his look of silent admiration for she  turned to address the stranger   One would fancy she observed that all these  things were new to you yet you would be as dull as a  chrysalis if you did not know already all about boring  spinning and leafrolling  I am afraid that you will think me veiy stupid  indeed lady Peacock returned butterfly Sydney   but I really am not quite sure what a chrysalis is  If an insect could look astonished the butterfly cer  tainly did so as much amazed as you dear reader might  feel if a companion confessed to you that he was not  quite sure what kind of a creature a boy could be The  peacock however only observed It is singular that  you should not know the changes in your own condition  I see that you are a purple emperor one of the noblest  of oui race that soars aloft at noontide above the loftiest  trees so high that it is almost lost to view Perhaps  these bold flights into upper air may have some injurious  eflFeet upon memory I who am of a less aspiring  nature have a clear recollection of all that has ever  happened to me in my changeful life except of course  during my chrysalis slumber I can recall the time  when I was a black caterpillar dotted with white and  armed with long black spines feeding with numbers of  my companions on the leaves of the common nettle   Oh I must have seen you exclaimed Sydney  Pierce who remembered a repulsivelooking caterpillar  just answering to this description a creature from which  he had turned in disgust But who would ever have  thought that that ugly caterpillar I beg your pardon  he cried interrupting himself for he felt that he had  just said something very rude that that black cater  pillar could ever have turned into a butterfly so exceed  ingly lovely  One cannot always judge of  butterfly by caterpillar observed  the peacock goodhumouredly  Seeing the beautiful butterfly so  willing to enter into conversation  Sydney was inclined to ask a few  questions but expressed a fear that  he was preventing her from listen  ing to the speech which the red  admiral at that moment was making   Oh it matters not replied  lady Peacock I know all that  my companion can say her home  like my own when we were caterpillars was amongst  the leaves of the nettle She used to pull those leaves  together and fasten them as well as she might I re  member that she was then of grayishgreen colour with  a yellowish line down each side and her chrysalis was  brownish above and graygreen below and was adorned  with fine golden spots We are connected with each  other the red admiral is called Vanessa Atalanta and I  am Vanessa lo   Very pretty names remarked Sydney but not  very easy to be remembered   It strikes me that your memory is remarkably  weak observed the peacockbutterfly I see that  your wings purple emperor have been cruelly bruised  perhaps the same accident that injured them has dulled  your wit as well as your plumage You are the first  purple emperor with whom I have ever conversed pray  where did you live when you were a caterpillar   I never was a caterpillar in my life exclaimed  Sydney who would have burst out into a roar of  laughter had it been possible for a butterfly to do so  The peacock looked at him in amazement thinking  him doubtless a butterfly out of his wits Where did  you hang when you were a chrysalis she asked with  a little impatience   I dont even know for certain what a chrysalis is  replied Sydney who though ashamed of his ignorance  was in his butterfly form as frank and truthful as he  had been in that of a boy  The peacock jerked her bright wings upwards in  astonishment Sydney fancied that the eyes upon them  flashed brighter in scorn   I wish said the poor purple emperor that you  would tell me what yoit remember instead of asking me  what remember Only I may be preventing your  making your speech and winning the prize from the  fairy   I am not going to make any speech at all said the  peacock There is nothing wonderful about my work  and even if there were I should not care to have my  wings tipped with gold  They are splendid enough already thought Sydney   no fairy touch could improve them   So continued Vanessa lo if you like to listen to  a very simple tale I will tell 3ou what I recollect  though mine is but the common experience of butterflies  I have not like the goatmoth or as we should call her  the Cossus Ligniperda any curious adventures to relate   I should like to hear all that you can tell me of  your childhood I mean your caterpillarhood replied  Sydney who hoped that the power of the fancypoma  tum might last until he had heard from a butterfly her  own account of her early life and education   My first recollection said Vanessa lo is of break  ing my eggshell and finding myself with a number of  little black companions safely cradled in the fold of a  nettleleaf I need hardly say that we quickly set  about eating that being the principal occupation of  every caterpillar I sometimes wonder now at my loss  of appetite a little sip of honey from a fiower is all  that I care for When I was a caterpillar I would eat  up ten times my own weight in a very short time   It is a happy thing observed Sydney that  human beings are not so hungry in proportion to their  size   We were troubled with no cares continued the  peacock Each of us being furnished with sharp little  bristles the very birds would scarcely have wished to  touch us and there being so many of us together our  lives were very sociable and pleasant To our minds  there was no plant on the face of the earth to be com  pared to a nettle We grew fast our race do grow  very fast fourlegged and twolegged creatures do not  increase in size and weight as we do or a kitten would  grow into a cat bigger than the largest waggon that ever  moved along the highroad with whiskers as long as  cornstalks I I never remember being frightened but  once and that was when a donkey came browsing by  the side of the highroad and cropped off a thistle that  was growing quite close to our leafy retreat The only  trouble which I knew at this period of my life was that  of changing my skin   Changing your skin I exclaimed Sydney   Of course I changed it said the butterfly surpiised  at her companions look of wonder Its the most  natiu thing in the world to get out of ones skin   I cant say that I think so observed Sydney   Why I thought that all creatures did so said the  peacock whose knowledge was of course of a very  limited kind Snakes do so as well as caterpillars I  am not quite sure about donkeys and horses but human  beings certainly change their skins   I never heard that before exclaimed Sydney his  wings shaking with mirth   Ive seen a man changing his skin IVe seen it  with my own eyes said Vanessa lo in a very positive  manner for she was rather provoked at the doubt ex  pressed by what she considered to be the most stupid  butterfly in existence A man came close up to the  hedge under which our nettleplant grew and he pulled  oflF the skin from all the upper part of his body ina  twinkling He seemed to have no trouble such as we  have Instead of feeling languid and sickly as we do  as soon as he had thrown off the skin he set to work at  clipping the hedge with the greatest activity and vigour   It was not his skin but his jacket that the man  pulled off cried Sydney extremely diverted at Vanessa  los mistake   I dont know what you mean by a jacket replied  the butterfly rather offended It was an old brown  skin and the new skin under it was whitish with a  brown line on each side The oddest part of the busi  ness was that when the man had done clipping the  hedge he came stooped down picked up his old skin  and put it upon his body again A caterpillar would  have scorned to do such a thing   Caterpillars dont wear jackets murmured Sydney  to himself thinking what strange ridiculous mistakes  may be made both by butterflies and human beings if  they judge of the habits and ways of others only by  their own   When I and my companions had reached our fall  size said Vanessa lo continuing her accoimt we felt  that we had something to do besides eating and so  we began to spin fastening coarse silken threads to the  nettleleaves which we lived in This was of course to  prepare a quiet restingplace in which we might remain  during our chrysalis state I have but a dim recollec  tion of what came over me after I had  finished ray spinning I experienced a  kind of dulness and deadness and then  went to sleep at my ease How long I  remained in this state I know not I  have heard that my colour was green  with golden tints upon it and that I  hung suspended by my tail but all that  I myself can remember is the delight  which I felt this morning when I burst  into new and glorious life 1 No more a  prisoner to earth I soared aloft in the air my home  no longer a nettle my motion no longer wiiggling or  crawling the creeping thing had been given wings  the black spiny caterpillar had become   Dear me 1 exclaimed Sydney awaking suddenly  from his slumber under the tree and rubbing his eyes   here am I down again upon the earth not a butterfly  but a boy It almost seems to me as if I had come  down to a caterpillar state as I cannot rise one yard  from the ground I wish that I could have heard the  end of Madam Peacocks story Im afraid that she will  set down purple emperors as the most uncivil as well as  the most stupid of butterflies Well I have at least  learned one good lesson Not to despise or to dislike  the most common and most ugly of creatures since the  black spiked and spotted caterpillar of the nettle turns  into the glorious peacockbutterfly  CHAPTER XIX  A FRIEND IN NEED  E will now return to Philibert Philimore whom  we left on the lawn in pain and out of temper  ready to quarrel with all the world because  discontented with himself No sooner had  he by his insolence driven Sydney Pierce from  his side than Philibert bitterly repented of his folly  It was not only that he felt dull and dreary when thus  left all alone but that as soon as his pain had lulled and  his passion had time to cool Philibert began to consider  that he had been imkind and unjust and ungrateful too  in his conduct towards Sydney Young Philibert re  membered how aflFectionate and good his companion had  been to him during the preceding day how ready  Sydney had shown himself to give up his own pleasure  his own will how thoughtful he had been of the comfort  of the boy who had now requited his kindness with in  sult Before the visit of Sydney to Fairydell Hall Phili  bert had thought little about anything but what con  cerned his own enjoyment he had been a thoroughly  selfish boy But the constant example of one who con  sidered others and found his pleasure in giving pleasure  had not been without its efiect on the mind of the squires  spoiled son Philibert had learned to believe though he  acted as if he did not remember that   To live for self is to live for sorrow  The wellspent day brings the happy morrow  and he could not now do what was very wrong without  feeling uneasy afterwards  Philibert was now exceedingly lonely and sad Sydney  had gone into the woods and Philibert knew that it  would be no easy matter to find him there and even if  he should find him young Philimore felt that unless he  should ask his companions pardon it could hardly be ex  pected that what had passed would be forgiven and for  gotten  A nobleminded and generoushearted boy in Philiberts  position would have determined to do the wise and right  thing at once by all means in his power show his regret  for his conduct and try as far as he could to make  amends to his friend But Philibert though beginning  to see what was the course of duty had not brave re  solution to follow it He was vexed with himself he  was imhappy he felt not only that he was in trouble  but that he had deserved to be so yet instead of making a  struggle to get out of it agaiu the spoiled boy only sat  down upon a seat at the edge of the lawn and burst into  tears   Why Philibert my little friend what is the matter  said a sweet gentle voice as some one approached him  walking over the closelymown grass Philibert had no  need to look up through his teardimmed eyes to know  who was speaking to him for no one but Angela May  the vicars daughter ever spoke in so loving a tone to  the squires motherless boy If the selfish heart of  Philibert really cared much for any one in the world but  himself it was for her who had more than once soothed  his childish sorrows by speaking to him holy words of  counsel such as he had seldom lieard fiom any lips but  her own  Philibert made no answer to the question of the lady  so Angela came and sat down by his side Taking his little  fat hand in her own and speaking as a kind elder sister  might speak she asked him the cause of his sorrow   Sydney has gone away half sobbed the unhappy  boy   What I back to his home inquired the young lady   No yonder into the wood   Is that all We soon shall find him said Angela  cheerfully Shall you and I go exploring together   I dont want to find him I wont go after him  muttered sulky Philibert  What 1 has Sydney treated you unkindly asked  Angela  Philibert with all his faults was too honourable a  child to say Yes though his pride would not let him  honestly answer No As a kind of halfmeasure he  replied He didnt want me to kill the butterfly that  was no business of his I   And why should you kill it said Angela softly  pressing the hand which she held O dear Philibert  there is so much sorrow and pain in this world that I  could not bear to inflict one needless pang upon one of  180 A FRIEND IN NEED  Gods creatures Let them be happy while they may  and make me glad by seeing them happy Do you not  remember the beautiful promise in the Bible Blessed are  ike merciful for they shall obtain mercy V   I am sorry that I killed the butterfly said Phili  bert in a very low tone   If you tell Sydney that you are sorry why should  not you and he be happy together again   Hes angry with me I jeered him I called him  a bad name I said that I didnt care for his mother  murmured Philibert   Then you will go and frankly ask his forgiveness  said Angela   No I wont I wont ask Sydneys forgiveness  cried Philibert flushing with pride and drawing his hand  away from the gentle clasp of Angelas The squires  son was silly enough to fancy himself above Sydney  Pierce because his own father happened to be much richer  than his companions widowed mother To ask forgive  ness is always humbling to pride and Philibert shrank  from doing so  Dear PhiUbert said his friend I think that I  know something of what is passing in your heart now  for I too have a heart in which wrong thoughts and  proud feelings will often arise and they have given me  more trouble than anything else in the world  Philibert looked up with surprise into the gentle face  of the lady He knew that every one acquainted with  her character spoke of the goodness of the vicar s daugh  ter and he had heard it observed that she was rightly  called ADgela for that she had the temper of an angel  Philibert could hardly believe that she had ever been  troubled by pride or illhumour but when he looked into  her honest blue eyes he could see that she had spoken in  earnest  Yes Philibert I have to pray earnestly to God  to help me to conquer myself my unruly passions  my rebellious will and I have to keep a very close  watch indeed over the enemies within lest they take  me unawares and get the victory over me There is  one thing which I have made a rule always to do  though like yourself I have often felt very unwilling  to do it   And what is that asked Philibert who still could  hardly believe that Angela so good so gentle so kind as  she was could ever really have an inward struggle such  as she spoke of   Whenever I have spoken an unkind or hasty word  I first ask forgiveness of God for we must never forget  that to sin is to displease our Heavenly Father and then  I make it my rule to ask pardon openly of the person  whoever he or she may be whom my word may have  offended   Not if she were a servant said Philibert   If a servant if a schoolchild if a beggar replied  Angela May   I dont believe that you have often to ask pardon at  all said the boy  Not very often of my fellowcreatures answered  the vicars daughter at least not very often since I  was a very young girl The knowledge that my con  science would have no peace that I could not rest till I  had made what amends I could for hasty speaking has  had a wonderful effect in helping me to curb my tongue  and control a temper naturally hasty Now dear Phili  bert let me advise you as a friend to adopt this little  rule of mine When you are convinced that you have  been ungenerous unkind or unjust to any one take the  very first opportunity of frankly asking forgiveness  Philibert looked uneasy and grave I dont think  that I need say anything to Sydney this time he ob  served speaking slowly and after a pause He is such  a goodnatured fellow that I daresay when we meet hell  go on just as if nothing had happened After all it  does not much matter to him whether I say that Im  sorry or not   But it does matter to you dear Philibert and again  the soft hand of Angela rested upon that of the boy   You have owned to me that you have done wrong and  never can true peace be yours till you have made what  amends it is in your power to make Seeing that  Philibert looked undecided the young lady went on   I am reminded of a little incident which happened to  myself when I was a child not so old as you are now  I lost my way in your woods into which I had wandered  to look for nuts I became frightened and anxious for  I knew not in what direction to turn The more I tried  to get out of the thicket the fiirther and further I seemed  to wander into it The ground was moist with recent  rain and the print of my little shoes could be seen on  many parts of the path by which I had come I often  thought of retracing my steps but I was very unwilling  to do so for I knew that I should have many brambles  to repass and I hoped to make some short cut and get  to the edge of the wood by some nearer and pleasanter  way But all my hopes were vain I grew sadly weary  and disheartened the shadows were falling around me  and though I had called out till my voice was hoarse no  one had come to my help I must go back on my  steps after all thought I resolving to do at last what I  ought to have done as soon as I had found that I had  lost my way But I had made up my mind to take the  right course too late I could but track my footsteps  for a few yards before it became too dark for me to see  the prints After trying and failing I sat down in de  spair and cried as if my heart were breaking Darker  and darker grew the night more piercingly chilly the  air and I became very faint with hunger terror and cold  If my friends had not come with torches to seek for  their little lost child in the wood I do not suppose that  I should have lived to see the dawn of the morning  Philibert had listened with interest to Angelas ac  count of her childish adventure not uttering a word  until she had ended it He then observed I like your  story but I dont see that it has anything to do with my  asking Sydneys forgiveness   I have often thought of that evening in the woods  dear boy when having wandered from what I felt to be  the straight way of duty I have found myself in any  doubt as to how I should return to it I seem to hear a  voice in my heart there is such a voice in yours dear  Philibert saying Retrace your steps at once do not  wait till it be too late to do so Especially in this mat  ter of asking forgiveness let us try no roundabout way  Let us never be content with a hope that through the  generous forbearance of one whom we Jiave offended  things will go on again as if nothing had happened Let  us force ourselves however our pride may rebel to own  that we have done wrong The pain of such a confession  is soon over we have probably regained a friend we  have certainly done what is pleasing in the sight of our  Heavenly Father and are likely to enjoy once more that  holy peace of mind which can never be ours while we  have one unrepented sin   Angela I will I will ask Sydney to forgive me I  cned Pliilibert rising from his seat I wish I had  you always with me to tell me what is right I have not  a mother as Sydney Pierce has or pwhaps I should be  more like him  These were lowly words to fall from the lips of the  squires spoiled boy they gladdened the heart of Angela  May and rising she gave Philibert a kiss as loving as  might have been pressed on his cheek by his own mother  had she been living Perhaps it was the pressure of  Angelas hand upon Philibert s shoulder that made his  little collar fall off upon the grass The young lady  stooped and picked it up   I thought observed Angela as she gave it to Phili  bert that your collar was fastened with a little pearl  brooch   Oh yes I hope it is safe exclaimed Philibert in  a tone of alarm  I can see no brooch replied Miss May bending  down and looking to the right and to the left Philibert  fell on his knees to search the grass had been so closely  mown that had the brooch been there he must have  seen it almost directly  Angela examined the boys dress to see if the brooch  had by any chance dropped under the velvet Philibert  shook himself violently in the faint hope that the jewel  might drop out of some fold AH was in vain and the  little boy looked ready again to burst into tears   Oh papa will be bo vexed so dreadfully vexed  exclaimed Philibert He gave me that brooch on my  last birthday as such a very great present for it had been  mammas before she married Papa made me promise  that I would take such care of it and never part with  it all my life long and now IVe lost it Ive lost it  Philibert shook himself violently again but rather from  vexation than from any hope of shaking out the brooch   We must search for it well never despair of finding  it Where have you last been inquired Angela May  In the woods yonder replied Philibert we were  hunting for an antlion We could not find that and Im  afraid that we shall never find such a very little thing  as my pearlbrooch neither   We will try at least to do so said Angela come  and I will help you to search How glad we shall be if  we discover it at last And taking hold of Philiberts  hand the young lady went with him to the wood look  ing carefully about her from side to side as her compan  ion retraced as far as he could remember them the steps  by which he had come  For more than an hour Philibert and Angela thus  searched for the brooch the young lady trying to cheer  and encourage the boy who grew sadly tired and dis  heartened and who but for her would have soon given  up in despair all attempt to find his lost treasure It  was exceedingly inconvenient to Angela to give up so  much of her time She had come to see the gardener of  Fairydell Hall to procure from him some cuttings of rare  plants which the squire had offered to give her and had  intended to hasten back as quickly as she could to wel  come a dear friend from London whom she had not seen  for years and for whom she was procuring the cuttings  But Angela impatient as she felf to return home did  not even let Philibert see that she was in a hurry She  seemed to have nothing to think of but how to comfort  and help the poor little boy This was indeed the piin  cipal reason why Angelas gentle words of advice were  seldom without effect the vicars daughter practised  herself what she preached her counsels and her example  went ever together While Angela was helping Philibert  to search for the jewel that his father might not be dis  pleased by its loss she found an opportunity of dropping  in a few words about that priceless pearl peace of con  science that gift so far more precious than all the gems  to be found in the land or the sea  CHAPTER XX   THE FAIRY 8 MISTAKE  JHE fairys prize had been given her feast of  honeydew had been enjoyed the meeting of  butterflies was over The last bright winged  member of the Lepidoptera had fluttered away  from Violet Dell even the rosebeetle had crept away  from his station at the feet of the fairy But Frisket  still sat on her flowerj throne her goldentipped wand  drooping from the tiny hand which held it The blossoms  in her wreath were beginning to fade but the fairy did  not seem to be inclined to spring up on her glassy wings  to seek for fresher and brighter  It can scarcely be that you are weary my sweet  sister fay said Knowabit who was still by her side   still less can it be that you are sad yet were you a  mortal fair instead of a fairy I might think that you  now were both sad and weary Has the meeting of  butterflies and moths been less well attended than you  had expected It seemed to me after my long seclusion  amongst books as if to a bed of flowers the power of  motion had been given petals being changed into wings  and stamen into antennae till all the air was alive with  beauty Or were you mortified at having to bestow  your prize upon an insect that you favoured less than  the rest   I should certainly have preferred tipping the wings  of the peacockbutterfly with gold replied Fairy Frisket  but I was not at the moment when you addressed  me thinking either of butterflies or moths They give  me no cause for vexation or displeasure Each has her  own place in the world her leaf to roll or her cocoon  to spin she lives works and dies exactly as she was  intended by nature to do I was thinking and I  own thinking sadly of human beings and especially   here there was indignation in the tone of the little  fairy of that wretched selfish creature Philibeit  Philimore   I do not see why my fair sister should trouble her  self especially about him said Knowabit blandly  I cannot endure to see a creature endowed with mind  and all kinds of powers that might make him so grand  and so noble leading such a caterpillar life exclaimed  Frisket springing to her feet and looking as angry as a  pretty little fairy could look as she struck the ground  with her wand Yes I repeat it a caterpillais life  and worse than that for he has not even taken to spin  ning or leafrolling 1 Philibert seems to care for nothing  but eating drinking and amusing himself He is ready  indeed to sting and annoy some caterpillars can do that  also he wantonly killed my purple emperor he insulted  his kind companion he is not only like a creeping  creature but a blackspotted spiny caterpillar in spite  of his blue velvet dress   My dear sister fay said quiet Knowabit smiling  at her angry impatience it is the blackspotted spiny  caterpillar that turns into the Vanessa lo the bright  peacockbutterfly at last   The selfish caterpillar of a boy will never turn into  anything but a selfish caterpillar of a man 1 exclaimed  Fairy Frisket I have done all that I could to rouse  and improve him it is no fault of mine if Philibert re  main the contemptible creature which he is Ive hit  him over the ear over the hand and over the nose with  my stingbrush it only made him roar and stamp Ive  speckled his face Ive stirred his food Ive  Even sober Knowabit could scarcely help bursting  out laughing at his sisters account of her fashion of im  proving a troublesome mortal That may not have  been the best way of managing a boy he observed  you tormented his skin you spoiled his dinner but you  never reached his heart  His heart repeated Frisket more slowly I doubt  whether Philibert has a heart at all and if he has I  dont know how to get at it   Hardly I fear observed Knowabit hearts seem  to be things quite out of the reach of fairies I have  never found the way to Philiberts yet though he and I  so often have met But you sister fairy have never  shown yourself at all to that boy  And never will cried Frisket with petulance at  least never till that caterpillar of a boy shows himself  able to rise a little from his nettleleaf of selfishness and  pride K he did so there is no saying whether But  he never will cried Frisket interrupting herself in the  middle of her sentence  But suppose that Philibert should rise from that  nettleleaf said her brother   Then indeed I would pull my tassel then would I  show myself to a mortal and he should meet the smile and  enjoy the favour and receive the gifts of Fairy Frisket  While this conversation between the fays was going  on in Violet Dell at another part of the wood Angela and  Philibert now thoroughly wearied with the fruitless  search for the brooch were seated on the trunk of a  fallen tree earnestly talking together  I suppose I suppose that I ought to do it said poor  Philibert with a heavy sigh but it will be harder to  confess to papa that I have lost the pearlbrooch than to  beg Sydneys pardon for my rudeness Papa will be not  only vexed but angry for he forbade me ever to wear  that brooch when I played about in the wood   You see dear boy that the good resolutions which  you have been making will be put at once to the proof  said Angela May You have a thorny bit of giound to  go over you have to conquer fear as well as to wrestle  down pride But when you lay your head down on your  pillow tonight how thankful you will be if you can re  member a painful duty performed a victory won over self  I do mean to turn over a new leaf I do mean to try  to be a different boy from what I have been said  Philibert and I will ask for help as you have told me  to ask I hope in time to think of others as you and  Sydney are always doing and be loved as you and he are  But before I go home and confess to papa that I have  lost my pearlbrooch would you mind helping me to  search for it just a little longer Oh how glad I should  be to find it Never will I disobey papa again by wear  ing it in the wood  Tired as she was and very anxious to get back to her  home Angela May would not refuse the request of her  poor young friend The two began again their weari  some search shaking fern leaves examining mosses  looking in likely and unlikely places for the jewel which  Philibert had dropped  Oh theres Sydney exclaimed Philibert suddenly   how I do hate having to ask his forgiveness  Dont delay do the right thing at once or your  resolution may fail you said Angela  Little Philiberts cheek had been pale with weariness  but now it grew red with shame as making a strong  brave eflfort to overcome his dislike to humbling himself  he ran up to his companion while Angela followed more  slowly  Sydney I beg your pardon Ive behaved very  badly I hope youll forgive me 1 gasped Philibert out  of breath less from the effect of running than from the  difficulty which he had in bringing out such a sentence  Oh dont think about that any more dear PhUibert  cried Sydney Pierce in his open frank kindly way   See heres something of yours that Ive found And  he held out the little pearlbrooch  Philibert jumped for joy at the sight he seemed to  be getting back his jewel and his peace of mind together   Oh you dear old fellow I he exclaimed grasping  the hand which Sydney held out with the brooch and  wringing that hand warmly you dont know what a  kindness you have done me I am ten times more sorry  than I was before at having treated you so badly since  you return my evil with good But Im going to try to  be a very different companion to you in ftiture Im going  to try to keep my temper and remember my duty and  forget myself like you and dear Angela May  An exclamation of astonishment burst from the lips of  the young lady who came up to the boys at that moment  an exclamation not caused by her having overheard the  last sentence of Philibert The boy who had glanced  towards her as he spoke struck by the amazement and  admiration expressed in Angelas face followed the di  rection of her eyes and uttered in a loud tone of de  light Oh what a beautiful beautiful fairy  Yes Fairy Frisket had pulled her tassel and Knowa  bit had pulled his and there they appeared in full sight  of three mortals poised on their glassy wings their gossa  mer robes glistening in the sunlight that streamed through  openings between leafy boughs the loveliest little brother  and sister that ever were seen Angela who had never  even heard of Knowabit was of course the most aston  ished of the three spectators but Philibert Philimore the  once spoiled boy was perhaps the happiest of them all as  he listened to the tinkling music of Fairy Friskets address   Philibert Philimore you have learned a lesson and  one has been taught even to a fairy I have learned that  good words may have more power than a stingbrush  kindly deeds than the wand of a fay  Not gilded rod of fairywood  But love content and gratitude  Give sweetest taste to common food  Make everything seem fair and good  Oh that every selfwilled child would try to cast off his  old evil habits as the black larva casts off his dark skin  and would rise to a higher nobler happier existence far  above the nettleleaf of selfishness as from the creep  ing crawling caterpillar springs up into glorious life the  bright winged Vanessa lo  INDEX  AmazonAnts Formica ruescdtM 49  AntLion MyrmaUon formiearitu 106  AphLs 65  BlueBntterflies 142  BrimstoneButterfly 142  CabbageButterfly Pontia brasHca 142  Clearwing Moth 161  Clouded Yellow Butterfly 142  ErmineMoth Fpontmena podella 161  Foraging Ants 72  Fritillaries 141  OoatMoth CoMiM iHjmiperda 147  HeathButterfly 142  Lackey Moth Cliaio eampa neua  tria 146  Leaf rollers 164  Lepidoptera 139  LeopardMoth 161  Negro Ants 51  Paintedlady Butterfly Cynthia ear  dux 142  Peacock Butterfly Vanetsa lo 166  Purple Emperor Butterfly Satvmia  pavonia 167  Pupas 53  Bed Admiral or Admirable Butter  fly Fanssa Italanto 165  Skippers 142  Swallowtail Butterfly Papilio ma  ehaon 146  TigerMoth Ufrta efla 146  Tortoiseshell Butterfly Vanena ter  tica 142  White Ants or Termites 40  WolfMoth 160  WoodAnts or Pismires Formica  rvfa 49  Woolly Bear 146THE 


DWELLERS IN OUR GARDENS: 

THEIR LIVES AND WORKS.  



THE SLOW ONEWHO STAYS 
MUCH AT HOME. 

HE dweller *in our gardens, 
whom we call the  Slow 
One, is, from his very slow 
and measured pace, not only 
easy to be seen when he 
happens to be abroad, but 
from his quiet and secluded 
habits can generally be found at home when he 
is wanted. Some people have described him as 
never going from home, and as carrying his house  

with him on his back at all times ; but we shall show 
that this is a wrong notion, and though by nature 
his body is provided with a comfortable and convenient 
covering, yet he requires a dwelling-place as well as 
other creatures. We shall find that he likes above all 
things a nice little retired nook to live inshady, cool, 
and damp, under the shelter of leaves and branches, or 
on the shady side of a bank, or among stones or tree 
trunksanywhere so that it is secluded, cool, and shady. 
Never, by any chance, is he to be seen taking a walk in 
the glare and warmth of the hot noon-day; but before 
the sun has risen, or not had time to mount up high in 
the heavens, and -when the early dew is still on the 
grass and every flower and leaf moist with it, the Slow 
One may be seen making his way as fast as he can 
crawl towards some juicy lettuce or cabbage leaves, or 
succulent young flowering plant or bed of seedlings, to 
eat his breakfast. There are other times, too, when he 
will venture forth from home ; as, for instance, when a 
shower of rain has just fallen, and made the ground soft 
and damp, and when every leaf and blade of grass is 
dripping with rain-drops, and the sun still hid behind 
rain-cloudsthen he will ail at once unglue himself from 
his tree-trunk, stone, or wall, and raising up his shell, 
poke out his head and stretch out his one great foot, 
and first thrusting up his two tallest horns, and then 
putting out his two smaller oneswill glide forth with 
his usual slow, dignified, and not ungraceful pace, to take 
a second meal. 


 . 


O 

Learned people give the name of  Helix aspersa to 
our slow friend. Helix, because that is the Latin for a coil 
or a screw, and describes the form of his outer covering 
or shell; and aspersa , because of the spottings and 
blotches of darker colour on the whorls or windings of 
it. From the softness of his body, the snailwhom, 
after all, we must call by his most common name some 
timesbelongs to the large class of animals which are 
called Molluscs or Mollusca, from the Latin word mollis , 
soft; and then he has another family name, made up of 
two Greek words, which describe his manner of crawling 
on his stomach as if it were a large foot, so that all 
molluscous animals who crawl in that manner, whether 
on land, or at the bottom of the sea on sea-weeds and 
rocks, are called gastero-poda , or stomach-footed. Like 
most other living creatures, the snail requires air for his 
support, as well as food. If we observe him closely as 
he is crawling abroad, we may perceive a round opening 
come every now and then under the edge of the shell at 
his right side. He is taking air into his lungs ; and air 
is as much needed for the growth of his body, and the 
continuance of his life, as with ourselves. As he eats, 
too, we can see that there is something which he can do 
quickly, like ourselves, since the rapid motion of his mouth 
as he munches his leaves is very perceptible, it being 
provided with a hard and toothed upper jaw. Let us 
notice, too, his delicate and flexible horns, at the tips of 
which are his round eyes, and admire the grace with 
which he bends them this way and that as he crawls, as . 


if to look about him. Small round knobs are these eyes 
of his, without lid or lash, so no wonder that he avoids 
the glare of bright sunshine. But instead of an eyelid to 
shut over them, how easily he can protect his organs of 
sight by drawing the eye with the whole horn into his 
head again at the approach of the slightest danger. With 
what delicate muscles must not this be effected within 
that slender horn ! He has the sense of smellthat we 
are sure of, from his detecting so far off his favourite 
food ; but we know not where are his organs of smell. 
Are they at the tips of the short horns nearer his mouth, 
and do these small knobs at their end act as noses or 
nostrils, or is there all over the body the power of per 
ceiving in the air odoriferous particles, imperceptible to 
our sight and smell, which come from the plants he feeds 
on ? 

It seems to us when he gathers himself so completely 
up into his shell, and fastens himself so closely against 
some smooth surface after a meal, as if he then meant to 
sleep ; but we really know little about it, for it is quite 
certain that while he is so quiet and still something is 
going on very important to the Slow One. Of course he 
is growing all the time, like every other creature, 
nourished by the particular food which is suited to their 
natures; the food adding fresh material to the body, and 
the operation which we call digestion helping to change 
the food into the matter wanted for the building up of 
the body, or for repairing the waste of what is used up 
by the act of living ; and yet something else besides this 


 


goes on within the creature we are describing. As we 
grow our bones grow with us and help to give support 
and strength to our bodies, and make us what we are 
strong and upright creatures, able to move about 
easily and with the soft fleshy parts of our limbs outside 
our hard bones. But with the soft-bodied race to which 
our garden friend belongs, the hard parts most often 
come outside. They answer the same purpose as bones 
in some respects, and serve to protect their tender 
bodies, especially those of the race who inhabit the sea, 
where they are constantly exposed to the buffeting of 
waves and the ebbings and flowings of tides. Like our 
bones, shells are principally composed of lime, but some 
how it seems as if the animals who are covered with 
them had more to do with the making of them than we 
human creatures have to do with the growth of our 
bones. Their shells are made of matter which oozes out 
of their soft bodiespart lime and part a sort of animal 
glue, which hardens into the covering they want outside 
them. 

Our Slow One, therefore, seems to have something to 
do, while apparently idle or asleep, in building up the 
whorled shell which protects him. We have described 
the kind of dwelling places in our gardens that he gene 
rally chooses for a home, and perhaps it is not far from 
such nooks that he may have been born. In a hole in 
the earth, half hid by a stone, perhaps, was dropped by 
its parent, one by one, a bunch of little white eggs, about 
the size of a small pea, and out of each of them in due 


  


 . 


time came a tiny soft creature, with already the beginning 

t 

of a shell upon its almost transparent body. The greater 
part of the body had a tendency from the first to grow in 
a spiral or twisting form, and the shell had the same 
tendency, or rather could not help doing so, as it grew 
in size with the growth of the small creature it was to 
cover and protect. The head could be freed at will 
from the shell envelope, and the foot on which it was to 
crawl, but the upper portion of the body was to be 
always attached to and covered by the shell; and as this 
part of the body grew and was always coiling round in its 
growth the shell too became spiral, and each whorl 
became larger than the one before, as it increased with 
the creatures growth. 

Now the manner in which matter is constantly being 
added, so as to make the shell larger and larger, is a very 
curious affair. Almost all animals belonging to the soft- 
bodied race which are called Molluscs (or Mollusca), 
like the Helix of our gardens, have their bodies 
enveloped in a sort of loose skin, which has been called 
a mantle , because it wraps them round like a cloak or 
mantle. All sea molluscs, such as whelks and peri 
winkles, as well as those which have shells composed of 
two parts, like oysters and mussels, have the same 
envelopes or mantles , and it is round the edges of them 
that are the small pores out of which oozes the matter 
which builds up the shell. It is thus at the edge of the 
opening or mouth of the shell that the fresh matter is con 
stantly added, and it naturally follows the growth of the 


 . 


  


creatures body. While it is in repose, the mantle comes 
up to the very edge of the shells mouth, and a fresh 
little layer of shelly matter is deposited. If we examine 
a shell with a magnifying glass, we can see how small 
furrows or ridges are left outside by these repeated addi 
tions, and we may observe too that more of the animal 
matter comes to the outside, and, drying, makes a kind of 
brown skin, while within the shell it is almost wholly com 
posed of lime, and is kept smooth and polished like marble. 
The glue-like matter may be seen plainly at the edge of 
a young snails shell projecting a little, like a film. The 
limey matter is added within it afterwards, making it serve 
as a mould. This same gluey matter, mixed, perhaps, 
with a little lime, seems to ooze out at all times from the 
body of the creature, and especially from his large 
stomach-foot as he crawls, leaving, as we know, a 
glistening white track behind him at all times; the 
same sticky matter being used for helping to fasten 
himself up against some object when at home. Thus it 
is that the shell always fits the growing creaturenever 
too small or too large, or too tight or too loose, but 
always of the right size and form for covering the coiled- 
up part, and for packing the whole body into when 
needed. Which of us can say the same of any of our 
own clothing ? 

While we are examining the shell, of which we have 
so many specimens at all times in our gardens that we 
forget to admire them, let us notice that it is curiously 
marked by some addition of darker-coloured matter, 


  


 . 


which must have been poured out at certain parts of the 
mantle from time to time, and which following the 
windings of the shell end in making elegant bands of 
spots, or rather blotches, around it; and we may 
also observe that its whole form is most beautiful and 
symmetrical. The coils of the shell, as it has grown, are 
as regular and exact as if following some law or rule, as 
any object made by art. 



No clever artist or mechanic who might take out his 
ingenious tools, his compasses and rulers, and then 
sitting down, open out his learned books on geometry 
and other long-named sciences, and after studying them, 
might make trials and experiments, and calculate and re 
calculate ; even then would not be able to design such 
graceful, pretty, and accurate coils as have been pro 
duced by nature while our garden friend has been 
digesting all his lifes breakfasts ! But, after all, the secret 
of the shape of the shell and its regularity comes from 
the shape of the creature itself, which, if it were taken 
out of its shell and laid straight, would present the strange 
form of a very tall fools-cap, with its long foot and head 
at the bottom. The book about geometry would call it 
an  elongated cone. 


 . 


  


See ! what a strange figure our  Slow One  appears 
when divested of his elegantly formed and close-fitting 
shell garment, and stretched out to his real length ! 
When we cut in half the empty shell of a snail, we shall 
also see how much more delicate and thin were the first 
whorls of it, when the animal was young, 
compared to the very last whorlthe 
body as it grew requiring a thicker and 
thicker covering, while the point of the 
tall cone in our figure shows where was 
the beginning of the coiling, which now 
forms the apex or top of the spire of 
the shell. 

And now let us ask what happens 
when the gardener gets rather savage at 
finding some of his choice lettuces or 
delicate seedlings nearly eaten up one 
morning, and then takes the trouble to 
trace the offender back to his 
hiding place by his silvery 
track? What happens if he 
should ruthlessly tear him from 

his home, and intending to throw him over the garden 
wall fail to do so, and our friend, striking against the top 
most brick of the wall, receives a violent blow, and falling 
down behind some tree is not killed, but stunned, while his 
shell is all crushed and brokenall his lifes work, it would 
seem at first, quite spoiled. The broken edges of shell 
forced in against his tender body, and a piece of shell 











IO 


 . 


gone, so that there, at the back of the last whorl is now 
a terrible hole, letting in the air, and making him feel 
dreadfully uncomfortable, besides altogether spoiling his 
whole appearance. Perhaps he recovers gradually from 
the shockwaits for nightfall, and then crawls home thus 
wounded and maimed; but we rather fancy that he stays 
where he is, fastens himself to the wall which has so 
cruelly injured him, and then and there mends himself! 
No surgeon wanted for himno bandages needed, or 
forceps, or lancet. Friend Helix repairs his own shell. 
He keeps quite still, oozes out more limey and gluey 
matter just where it is wanted (for it would seem as if the 
whole of that envelope called the mantle can produce or 
secrete shell), and the matter dries and hardens; all is 
comfortable once more, and bye-and-bye he can, if he 
like, crawl home to his old nook again. Should you 
meet with him after this dreadful catastrophe, and exa 
mine the traces of the accident, you can just see where 
the shell patch has been put in, but that is all, for it is 
very cleverly done. 

But the gardener is not the only enemy which the snail 
has to dread, since many birds feed on slugs and snails, 
the shells of the latter, be they ever so strong, not always 
protecting them from some of the larger birds. We may 
see even on our garden paths, near some particularly 
large stone which is embedded in the gravel, fragments 
of snail shell, where some thrush or starling has carried a 
snail to knock and crush its shell against the hard surface, 
leaving not a particle of its soft body after the meal; and 


 . II 

we have noticed frequently around some particularly 
large stone on the surface of a common, a circle of frag 
ments of snail shell, showing where birds have often used 
the stone in preparing their dinners; so that the snail, while 
nourishing his own body with his natural vegetable food, 
supplies to other animals their natural foodjust as the 
grass-eating sheep furnishes food for mutton-eating men. 
It is to be so, by a law of nature, and we need not look 
upon it as a terrible or cruel law, but rather one to be 
reverenced and obeyed, though we should try at all times, 
and above all things, to respect and spare life as much 
as it is possible. 

We have said that  Helix aspersa ; likes coolness and 
damp and dislikes warmth, but it is also true that he 
avoids the cold of winter and spends that season in a 
kind of stupor or sleep, taking no food, and never un 
fastening himself from the smooth surface of bark or wall 
or stone to which his shell is attached; and besides 
glueing himself round the edge of his shell to such a 
surface, he also covers the mouth of the shell inside with 
a thin coating of shelly matter, and withdraws still 
farther back into his largest whorl. Perhaps for the sake 
of getting a little warmth from each other, a number of 
his family, on the coming on of cold weather, will fasten 
themselves to the shells of each other, the mouth of one 
shell being made to adhere to the back of the last whorl 
of another until a large ball is formed. What a curious 
sight must it be, when, on some mild, damp morning in 
early spring, the whole assembly of Slow Ones awake from 


    


 . 


their winter sleep, and unpacking themselves from their 
ball, crawl off, each his way, to break his long fast! 

 Helix aspersa  has many relationssome of them 
very like himself, and others only distant cousins, though 
all have several very striking points of resemblance. 



Helix nemoralis. 


 Helix nemoralis, for instance (whose name means 
 of the woods ), who is of a more delicate and 
refined nature, also lives ^sometimes in our gardens, 
where disdaining such common fare as lettuce or 
cabbage leaves, he selects the tender foliage of the 
grape vine for his diet, while, as his name betokens, he 
is also to be found in country hedges, and among the 
moss about the trunks of trees. It is no doubt from the 
delicacy of his food that his shell is more fine in texture, 
.and of a pale yellow or straw colour, elegantly banded 
with brown. 



Helix iiortensis. 


Another, called Helix hortensis (or of the garden), 
may also be found in some of our gardens, and 


 . 


     


is to be distinguished from  nemoralis  by a greater 
number of stripes around the shell, which is finished off 
with a pretty rim at the mouth, while the graceful and 
almost transparent body shows that the creature lives on 
delicate leaves and fruit. Helix arbustorum, or the shrub- 
snail., is also found in some country gardens, especially 
where there are shrubberies and plantations of young- 
trees; and where gardens happen to have ponds in them, 
in which chickweed grows on the surface, or which 
have other fresh-water plants growing in the mud at the 



Helix arbustorum. 

bottomsuch as the pretty water ranunculus, which, 
while it has its roots in the mud, and fennel-like foliage 
under the water, sends up to float on the surface its 
delicate white blossoms and round glossy leaves. When 
this happens, we may be sure to find many shell- 
covered molluscous animals feeding on these plants 
which are near relations to the Helix. The  Lymnea 
stagnalis, for instance, is sure to be there, clinging to 
the stalks or leaves, or swimming on the surface of the 
water, the bottom of his foot serving as a kind of float, 
while his shell and body hang downwards. The shell.  


of this water-snail is more spiral than the land shells, 
while in another variety of fresh-water snails often found 



Lymnea stagnalis. 


in ponds, called the    Planorbis  (which name means 
fiat-round''), the whorls of the shell are wound round 
like a flat coil of rope. In all these creatures the 
cone-shaped part of' the body gets its shell covering, 
while the head and foot can also be drawn at times into 
it for protection and shelter. 



Planorbis corneus. Planorbis contortus. 

Perhaps the Helix thinks the slug or Limax but a sort 
of poor relation, and of a very inferior nature to himself, 



 


crawling about as he does with his long, dark, slimy body 
unprotected by any shell. One of his brother slugs, to 
be sure, does bear upon his back a flat piece of shell, like 
a shield, but this one is of a still coarser nature, and 
instead of feeding on vegetables like his brethren and 
cousins, likes nothing so much as flies and beetles for his 
daily fare. 

And now to return to  Helix aspersa, whose life is 
spent in our gardens, and whose manner of life we have 
described, we have only left to tell that his shell building- 
goes on until his body has attained its full size, and then 
it seems as if he meant to take a little rest, or in other 
words when he stops growing no larger shell is required 
for him. When this time comes, he completes his 
shell with a sort of moulding or cornice round the mouth 
of it, as if to give it a finish and make it strong, and 
having done thisif the gardener and the birds will let 
himlives on to the natural end of his quiet and secluded 
life. And must not we who have been laying bare and 
looking into some of the secrets of that quiet life, feel 
after so examining into his nature and ways more respect 
than we have hitherto been accustomed to feel for a 
creature so often seen and so contemptuously spoken of ? 
and who yet, after all, is gifted with some of the same 
senses as ourselvessight, smell, tasteso that we per 
ceive that it has been intended that he too should enjoy 
life, and that even when he is doing us the greatest 
mischief that he can, is, after all, but living according to 
the nature eiven to him ; while if we are at all inclined 


 

to doubt whether he values his life, and in common 
with all other living creatures, has had given to him a 
desire to preserve it, together with some power of pro 
tecting it from danger, we may 


Give but his horns the slightest touch, 
His self-collecting power is such 
He shrinks into his  shell  with much 
Displeasure. 







 IT. 

THE SPINNER AND WEAVER. 


OR a greater part of the year, espe 
cially during the late autumn months, 
there are to be seen suspended in 
our gardens, among the boughs of 
trees and shrubs, or in the angles of 
gates or doorways, samples of the 
beautiful workmanship of the clever 
Spinner and Weaver, who is sure to 
live there. When the morning sun 
happens to fall on the delicate fabrics, making 
them glisten like spun glass or silver, or when the dew 
has left tiny beads upon them which reflect all the 
colours of the rainbow, or when some early morning 
frost late in autumn has frozen the dew-drops so that 
the whole looks as if carved out of ivory, then it is that 
the texture of these elegant hangings is most easily seen, 
and their wonderful workmanship shown to the greatest 
advantage. But though we may admire them very much, 
we know full well that they are not hung there to adorn 
our gardens and excite our admiration, but are constructed 
to serve a very important purpose in the life of the 



c 



     . 

Spinner and Weaver. For though we may pretend to 
describe them as tapestry hangings, or even call them 
webs, they are, after all, nothing more or less than nets  
wheel-shaped nets, with which the makers of them catch 
the prey on which they live, and which is their natural 
food. We should not look far before finding in the 
centre of one of these nets the maker of it sitting 
patiently awaiting its prey. If the net is a particularly 
large one, we may be sure that the spinner and weaver 
of it is also large, and yet its size, in proportion to the 
circumference of the net, is just as if some human weaver 
had woven a round carpet or rug, whose measurement 
across from one side to the other was twenty or even 
thirty times the length of his own body ; and we may 
remember, too, that the human weaver would be sure to 
have a frame and some sort of machinery to weave his 
web with, while our garden weaver has nothing but his 
own limbs with which to measure and fasten the warp 
and the woof of his web, and, moreover, has been the 
spinner of the thread himself with which it is woven. 
All thistogether with the wonderful accuracy and regu 
larity of the workmanship, and other circumstances which 
we shall have to relate, causes the Spinners and Weavers 
who live in our gardens to be considered the very 
deverest of all the creatures who dwell there. They 
have more of what looks like mind or reason, and some 
thing which seems to pass beyond what we are accus 
tomed to call  the instinct of animals, and seems to 
show that they can plan, and project, and measure, and 


 . 


    


calculate in making their nets, and then end with 
displaying great dexterity and cunning (as we shall see) 
in capturing and securing their prey. 

And now we must tell a story about the name of the 

Spinner and Weaver, which was given to his ancestors 

very long ago. There was, it is said, a young Greek 

girl called Arachne, the daughter of a dyer who lived in 

Ionia, who was greatly renowned for her spinning and 

weavingher father very likely dyeing the wool and flax 

and silk with bright colours, which his daughter after- 

<# 

wards spun and wove. At last the renown which 
Arachne gained for her workmanship made her very vain 
and presumptuous, so that she at length ventured to 
challenge the goddess Minerva to a trial of skill with her. 
Now Minerva happened not only to be the goddess of 
wisdom, but was also the patroness and inventress of all 
sorts of needlework as well as of spinning and weaving, 
and, as might be supposed, was very clever herself, so 
that when she tried her skill with Arachne the latter was 
beaten. So mortified and ashamed was then Arachne 
at this defeat, that she went and hanged herself on a tree 
in her despair, and the goddess in pity at her fate 
changed her into a spider, in which form she was still to 
go on spinning and weaving. 

We thus see how it was that the Spinner and Weaver 
of our gardens was first called Arachne by the Greeks, 
and why his descendants are now called Arachnidce; 
but it may be that this story was invented very long ago 
to account for the cleverness of all the family in spinning 

. 


and weaving, and that the Greeks were so proud of the 
skill of men, that when they saw a tiny creature able to 
spin fine and delicate threads and weave them into beau 
tiful webs, they said in their pride that it could not have 
been so clever if it had not once been a human being, 
and thus they invented the story of Arachne. 

But truth is much more wonderful than any stories, 
and ought to be more interesting to us, so putting all 
such aside, we will see how we can describe the wonder 
fully formed body and still more wonderful powers and 
curious ways and manner of life of the spider, a creature 
whom we all see so often without seeing well, and whom 
instead of admiring for the patient industry with which it 
exercises its skill for the gain of its livelihood and the 
care of its offspring, are too apt to consider in the light 
of a nuisance, all because of those webs of theirs. Do 
they not hang them in the corners of our rooms where 
they catch the dust and look most unseemly, and across 
our window panes where they obstruct the view, and 
from bush to bush in our gardens, so that they come 
across our faces and get entangled in our hair as we pass 
down our paths ? They plague and annoy us, and we 
brush them away with impatience and disgust, and yet 
when we observe these webs and their weavers more 
carefully, and read and learn all that has been observed 
and discovered about them by others, we find that we 
might perhaps spend a life-time in watching and 
examining them, and yet not be able to discover all that 
is puzzling and difficult to understand in the webs them- 


 


selves, and in the lives and ways of the creatures who 
weave them. 

And to begin with the curiously formed body of the 
spider, all the parts of which can only be seen with the 
help of powerful magnifying glasses and microscopes. 
There are, of course, many kinds of spiders, but we will 
confine our description to those we have the best oppor 
tunity of seeing, and more especially to the one who 
generally lives in our gardens and is best known to us. 
We all have seen its round bodyround as a nut; its 
head and eight slender, many-jointed legs, with which it 
runs to and fro upon the threads of its web with the 
grace and agility of a rope-dancer, and which perform 
the part of arms as well as legs, as their owner weaves 
its web and captures its prey. We must use the 
microscope to find out the other parts of the body, such 
as the eight eyes placed on the top of the head ; the 
strong pincers on each side of the mouth, which are not 
unlike the claws of a lobster, and are used as weapons 
in seizing and devouring its prey; and, lastly, the 
spinnerets beneath the bodya number of small bags of 
gluey matter, covered with thousands of minute hairs, 
which are really little tubes, out of which the creature 
squeezes the material for its thread, and which issuing 
from its body like an exceedingly fine spray or shower 
of liquid, becomes dry and firm and elastic on coming 
in contact with the air, and unites together, forming 
one fine thread, which we can just see without the 
help of a magnifying glass. We know that thou


sands of fine fibres of hemp make up a strong rope, and 
that it is all the stronger for being made up of many such 
fine threads or strands, and so it is with the spiders 



transparent rope, which holds together so wonderfully as 
long lines of it are hung from tree to tree and from 
shrub to shrub, and when it is carried round and round 
to form one of the wheel-like webs. The microscope 



shews us the curioits claws at the ends of its fore-legs, 
with which it adjusts the thread as it spins it, and 
which it uses to hold its prey as it binds it round with 


  Spinneret of Spider from a magnified Photograph. 


 . 


bandages of web-thread to secure it. All these parts of 
its bodythe eyes, - claws, pincers, flexible legs, and 
spinneretssupply the small creature with just the instru 
ments wanted for the exercise of its powers. The eight 
eyes help it to see its prey, and escape from danger itself 
in case any bird should attempt to capture it. The 
spinnerets produce all that it wants when the curious 
sense within it which we call instinct sets it to work to 
spread its fly-nets, which hang in the corners of our 
neglected rooms and among the shrubs and trees of our 
garden. The strong pincers, called mandibles , at the 
front of its head, which enable it to clasp its prey, are 
also furnished with little reservoirs of poison, with which 
it can stupify or kill a fly that is too strong for it to 
overcome. 



Head of Spider. 


We wonder at the regularity of the spiders web and at 
the accuracy with which all the circular threads are kept 


"Aperture by which the poison issues.


exactly the same distance apart, and if we watch it when 
weaving we shall see that one fore-leg is employed to 
guide the thread and keep it just the right distance from 
the last thread woven, acting as one of the legs of a pair 
of compasses and a ladys crotchet needle at the same 
time. It is a curious fact about these spiders webs that 
they are made of two kinds of thread, spun, it is sup 
posed, from different spinnerets. The thread used for 
the spokes of the wheel, or warp of the web, is a fine 
elastic, glossy thread, dry to the touch, but the thread 
with which the spider makes its circular woof comes from 
the body sticky and gummy, little globules of gum being 
visible (when magnified) along the thread like tiny beads 
at intervals. 

With this supply of gummy matter, the thread, when 
laid along the spokes, adheres to them, and never seems 
to get detached, and it is likely that the stickiness of it 
helps also to catch and entangle the flies. The spider is very 
careful to keep its web free from dust or dirt, and can be 
seen going over it, very carefully dusting it with its hairy 
feet, like a diligent housemaid. Should by any chance a 
leaf or bit of straw, or chip of wood, fall upon its web 
and get entangled in its meshes, it will instantly issue 
from its private apartment up in the corner, where it is 
accustomed to sit as in a watch-tower, and coming down 
to the intruding object, will carefully disentangle it from 
the web, so as to let it fall to the ground, without a single 
thread being broken or displaced, while if we had tried 


  


to extricate the same object, our clumsy fingers might 
perhaps have caused a large rent iff the web. Very cu 
rious, too, is the manner in which a spider, when a fly is 
once caught, will pack its wings around it, and bandage 
them up with web thread, so as to quite prevent the 
possibility of their being used for escaping. In every 
case the spider, in capturing its prey, stupifies it with a 
drop from its poison bag, and when thus rendered help 
less and insensible, it drags its victim behind it with a 
short thread fastened to it, as a sailor would a boat with 
a towing rope, and thus hauls it into its larder, which is 
always some corner from which it can watch its web. 
Even a butterfly, eight or nine times the captors size, 
will be rolled up in its own wings and rendered as shape 
less as an Egyptian mummy, in order to be portable and 
compact enough for being stowed away for future con 
sumption. One thing is very certain, that a spider must 
eat if it would keep up its stock of material for web 
spinning, since that results from the digestion of its food, 
as does the shell of the snail and the silk of the cater 
pillar. A good meal up in its larder is needed for 
supplying its spinnerets with the matter which forms the 
thread spun from them. The spider must feast one day 
in order that on some future day, in case its web should 
be destroyed by any accident, it may be able to begin its 
work over again. We can easily see spiders catch and 
dispose of their prey, but it is not so easy to detect all 
their methods of web making, and especially how it is 
that they are able to extend long lines of web-thread 


   


 . 


from objects at considerable distances one from another. 
It would seem as if Spiders meant to keep some of their 
doings a secret from us, since they usually construct their 
webs and stretch out their long lines either late in the 
evening or very early in the morning. If we pass down 
a garden path after twilight has come on, we may find a 
spiders line of web come across our face, where we had 
met no such annoyance in the bright daylight, and as we 
walk in the garden in the early morning we may observe 
that many a line has been extended from bushes wide 
apart from each other, and may puzzle ourselves to think 
how these delicate suspension bridges have been formed. 
We may even ask ourselves if the spider, when it wants 
to have a line carried to some particular point at a 
distance, can manage to make friends with some bee or 
butterfly, and get him to carry it across for it as he flies ; 
but no ! we may be certain that the creature has some 
power of its own which enables it to overcome the diffi 
culty. Now all who have studied the ways of spiders are 
agreed in saying that they have the power of ejecting 
their web-thread from their spinnerets to a distance, and 
have fancied that the lines of cobweb we find in our 
gardens have been first sent out by the spiders, and then 
floating on the air have caught to objects and have then 
been used as bridges, and strengthened by additional 
matter by the spiders as they passed along them. This 
may sometimes be the case, but it is also certain that to 
serve its purpose lines are often attached by the spider 
intentio?ially to particular spots or objects at a distance, 


 


and that it means to have them fastened there and no 
where else, so that we are obliged to suppose that a 
spider can send forth a line of web with such force from 
its body that it will adhere to a distant object, or that, 
trusting itself to be supported and carried by a current 
of air, it can dart across to some spot, after first fastening 
a line to the place from which it starts, and then length 
ening and spinning it out as it goes. 

We have seen both these feats performed by some tiny 
house spiders which we had only just extricated from the 
cocoon in which they were hatched. They had been 
laid on a book and then placed on a mantel-piece; and 
before many minutes had elapsed after their entrance 
upon life, they sent up lines of the finest web from their 
spinnerets to the edge of a vase about ten inches high, 
which happened to be near themfirst ejecting the line, 
and then travelling up it and carrying a second line with 
them, and coming back with a third, and so on; up and 
down the little creatures working, until a beautiful band 
of silvery web was formed between the book and vase, 
and then they seemed to rest from their labours and wait 
for prey. There were, however, no flies to be caught, so 
that by-and-by, when the door of the room was opened 
and a current of air set in towards the fire-place, the 
spiders one after another moored themselves to the edge 
of the vase, and launching themselves forth into the air 
like little kites, and lengthening their lines as they went, 
mounted to the ceiling. There it was they knew they 
must weave their webs if they meant to catch flies. 


These new-born spiders were only one-tenth of an inch 
in length, and the length of the web-lines sent up to the 
edge of the vase being quite ten inches long, it proved 
their power of ejecting lines ioo times the length of 
their own bodies, and of fastening them where they wish. 

In every case a spider glues the end of a line that he 
attaches to an object by pressing its spinneret against 
it, and such fastenings when they are magnified show us 
the numerous finer threads of which the lines are com 
posed. 



After we have explained as much as we can about the 
methods of spiders in forming their webs, there is much 
to be discovered by any who may observe them carefully 
at their work, and it is when we make observations for 
ourselves in the ways of such creatures as the usually 
despised spider, that they become to us a source of in 
terest and pleasure. We therefore recommend our readers 
to try to get a sight of a spider in the act of weaving its 
web some damp early morning in autumn, when it is 
about to hang it in an angle of a garden wall, or across 
the corner of a doorway, or between two shrubs. In 
every instance it will be found that an angle is wanted, 
within which the wheel is constructed, so that in the case 
of hanging a web between two shrubs, two long lines are 
first ejected, forming an angle and serving as a frame for 


it. They may then find out for themselves how the 
spinner and weaver manages to get these spokes of his 
wheel cross so exactly in the centre, and be stretched 
from point to point so firmly and yet so lightly, and see 
how cleverly as he runs round with his line he manages 
to keep it at such accurate distances apart, by letting it 
pass over the claw at the end of an outstretched leg, and 
how each time the circular line crosses one of the spokes 
it adheres to itall this and much more may be seen by 
those who give sufficient attention to the ways and doings 
of spiders, and pay respect to the wonderful powers with 
which their Creator has. gifted them. When we cease to 
think of a spider only as an annoyance or a nuisance, 
perhaps then the clever creature will allow us to dis 
cover some of its hitherto undivulged secrets. 

Some of the ingenious methods of the female spider 
for preserving her offspring have already been discovered, 
and are most curious. The time comes in her life 
when she wants to lay her eggs, and of these she lays an 
immense quantity, so that her race may be kept up, in 
spite of the numbers eaten by birds and other larger 
creatures, and for this reason the eggs are to be taken 
great care of, until the germ of life in each shall be ready 
to unfold itself into a young spideror, in other words, 
we may say that the mother spider takes care to place 
her eggs in a place of safety until they are hatched. Will 
it be thought that we are inventing, when we say that the 
careful creature contrives to provide an egg-cup for holding 
her eggs in before she lays them, and that her body is  

famished with a tiny egg-spoon , with which she places 
each egg in its place ? Such, however, is the fact. We 
know that at all times the spider has within her body an 
abundant supply of the material for spinning her fine 
elastic thread, so that when she requires a nice little cup 
or basket for her eggs she has only to spin thread and then 
to weave it. Choosing some sheltered nook for her opera 
tions, she begins the construction of her nest by weaving 
the bottom just as a bird constructs first of all the bottom 
of his nest, and the basket-maker the bottom of his 
basket The spider, while sending out the silken thread 
from her spinnerets, has only to move her body round 
and round, and a nice little mat is formed of the sticky 
web-thread, and then making her round body serve as a 
kind of mould for the nest, she goes on spinning and 
turning round as she spins until sides to the cup are 
raised high enough to hold safely a number of eggs. 
This done, the eggs are laid, each one being carefully 
placed with the help of the kind of spatula , or flat spoon, 
which is attached to the end of her body. This instru 
ment is often called an ovipositor or egg-placer, and in 
some insects is very long, but the spider does not want 
a long one. When the cup is even full to the brim with 
eggs, she still goes on piling them up until as many are 
above the edge as are within the cup, and then com 
mences the weaving of a cover to the egg-cup, and lastly 
she encloses the whole in an envelope of fine web closely 
woven around it, until it becomes like a soft ball of 
silken floss, of a pale yellow, within which the numerous  

eggs are kept dry and warm through the winter. In such 
cocoons may be seen in spring the young spiders already 
hatched at one end and the empty egg shells at the 
other, the former waiting perhaps for suitable weather 
for coming forth and entering on the business of spider 
life; and when not larger than a mustard seed young 
garden spiders will set about weaving tiny wheel-shaped 
webs for the capture of flies still smaller than themselves. 
After laying their eggs, some species of mother spiders 
have no more to do with their young; but others seem 
never to lose sight of their ball of eggs until the young 
ones are hatched, and if they have to change their place 
of abode will carry it about with them; and some others 
seem to take care of and feed their young ones after they 
are hatched, and will let them climb on their backs to 
escape from danger. 

The manner, too, in which some species of garden 
spiders entrap and capture their prey is quite different 
from the one which makes a wheel-shaped web, or from 
the house spider who hangs its gauzy web across the 
comers of our rooms, which are invisible to us until the 
dust settling on them makes them look like dirty bits of 
rag. Some, who are dwellers in our garden, construct 
for themselves long tubes of close-woven web among 
bushy shrubs, spread out wide at the top like a trumpet, 
and carefully secured by lines to the leaves and twigs. 
At the bottom of this, the spider lives watching and 
waiting until some unhappy fly gets entangled up above. 
A sort of vibration passes down the long passage from 


  


the struggles of the fly to escape, when quicker than a 
railway train can dash through a tunnel, the spider darts 
up to seize its prisoners. Other kinds of spiders in our 
gardens live in holes and crannies in walls and trees, 
which they line with web, and only dart out on their 
prey when they come near the mouths of their dens. 
These creatures, called Tegenaria, are very fierce, and 
have very long legs in proportion to the size of their 
bodies, so that one of the kind goes by the name of 
Daddy-long-legs, and is known to most of us by those 
long and graceful legs. It is sometimes said that spiders 
will kill and eat each other, but we like to believe that 
in such cases the victims are captured in honourable 
warfare. A spider, for instance, has been seen to invade 
the web of another, and seat himself in the centre, try 
ing to appropriate it to his own use, and the real owner 
has come outas if in the defence of his castlefight 
and wrestle with the intruder, and after killing him, eat 
him up as if he were a fly. It is also said that the female 
spider will sometimes kill and eat a male spider when 
she does not take a fancy to himthe female being 
much larger and stronger than the malebut we are not 
sure of the truth of such stories, though we are afraid 
that our clever Spinner and Weaver has after all a good 
deal of the nature of a beast of prey. In tropical 
countries species of spiders are found which are nearly 
as large as small birds. The bodies of some are covered 
with soft and glossy brown fur, like the sealskin we* use 
for jackets and gloves. Some of them live in holes in 


 . 


   


the ground, which they line with web and protect with 
a trap door, which opens and shuts with a hinge ; others, 
such as the great Mygale spider, which is not unlike a 
hairy crab, makes its nest in the cavities in the trunks of 
trees, and is said by travellers to prey on newly-hatched 
birds, and even to capture and eat the lovely humming 
birds which flit among the leaves and blossoms, and are 
scarcely larger than itself. Spiders are so often called 
insects that we are apt to forget that they cannot be 
classed with bees, butterflies, and beetles for several 
reasons, but form quite a separate race of creatures. 
The structure of their bodies is unlike in many important 
particulars, and they do not pass through the same 
changes as do all insects, as we shall describe in our next 
 A spider is, in fact, a nearer relation to crabs 
and lobsters than to bees and butterflies. As the spider 
grows larger and larger, it casts its skin many times, and 
each time a new one is ready formed beneath. From 
being at first scarcely so large as a grain of mustard 
seed, the maker of the wheel-shaped webs in our gardens 
sometimes grows to be as large as a small nut. It has 
had the grand name of Epeira diademagiven to it, and 
a grand creature it really seems when grown to its full 
size, as it sits in the centre of its splendid web and 
allows us to examine its form. We see that its back is 
most curiously mottled and spotted with white and 
black, and that it has something like a white cross on 
the top of the back. With an ordinary hand magnifying 
glass we can see the eight bright eyes which form a  


kind of diadem upon the head, and which have given 

the creature its second name. We may also contrive to 

_ _ see under its body the bunch of sfiinne- 

_ rets, from which comes forth the web 

<>  (> ,@> 


material through the fine hair-like tubes 
which are called spinner ides, and can just detect the 
claws at the ends of the legs, which are such useful 


implements in the adjustment of the circular lines of the 
web, or in hauling itself up again after having dropped 
down from a height. Seeing thus its curious body, and 
having learned something of the wonderful powers which 
have been bestowed upon them, we can surely never 
look upon the Spinner and Weaver of our gardens with 
either dislike or contempt, for according to the life that 
was meant to be his, are after all, his seemingly cruel 


ways, as well as his clever works This life begins 
when a little worm furnished with 
sixteen legs comes forth from an egg 
just large enough to hold it, and the 
whole life is spent in feeding on 
the leaves of the plant upon which 
that egg was laid. From being scarcely visible when 
first hatched, the small creature, as it eats, grows so 
rapidly that in twenty-four hours it has increased to 
four times its size when it first left the egg, and it is 
soon large enough for us to see its form and parts. We 
can see that six of its legs are for crawling with, and are 




placed under the fore part of the body, while the other 
ten are only for clasping the leaf on which it feeds, or 
the stems of the plant on which it crawls. It has a 
horny covering on its head, jaws for biting, eyes for 
seeing, and spiracles , or breathing holes, down each side 

D   



















    . 

of its body. Its skin is soft, and adorned with delicate 
stripes or spotssometimes it has fleshy spines, sometimes 
it is hairy, and sometimes the whole body is covered with 
dark brown fur. As it eats and grows larger and larger, it 
requires a new skin to fit its increased size, the old one 
shrivelling up, and the new one appearing beneath. 
Many times in the course of its life is this done, and 
then, having grown to its full size, and as if tired of this 
mode of life, it crawls down the stem of the plant on 
which it has fed, makes its way to some wall, or paling, 
or tree-trunk, and climbs up it to some sheltered cranny 
or corner, there to await a complete change in its form 
and life. At this time the creature begins to exercise in 
a new way the power it has always had of producing 
from its body a silken thread, by which it could let itself 
down from a leaf or twig at will. It now spins fine 
cables of this silk with which to fasten itself in safety to 
the resting-place it has chosen. Unlike the spider, this 
silken thread is spun from its head, and managing 
to pass a belt of it round its body, it fastens the ends of it 
to the wall or paling, or to some twig in a sheltered place, 
so that it cannot be blown off, and with another thread 
suspends itself head downwards. Other creatures of 
its race fasten themselves to the stem, or roll themselves 
up in a leaf of the plants on which they feed, by means 
of these silken threads, so as to make a little cradle or 
nest: others weave together some of the smaller leaves 
of their native plants, and make a sort of cage with web, 
in which they suspend themselves. Others will fasten  


together the ends of some blades of grass, so as to form 
a little tent, in the middle of which they hang themselves 
by a silken threadall these preparations being made for 
the creature passing through a change in its form and 
nature, and ceasing to be what we call a caterpillar. 

LIFE THE SECOND.During this life the soft 
body has acquired a hard skin or case. It is mostly 
dark or shapeless. It no longer eats or moves from its 
place. It has neither eyes nor mouth, for it has no need 
of either, nor has it any feet or claws, 
and the only sign of life it gives is that 
of being able to bend slightly its horny 
case or shell, which at the tail is jointed 
like that of a lobster. It is mostly brown 
or bronze colour, but it has sometimes golden stripes 
upon it, or is wholly gold coloured. Now the Greek 
word for gold is chrusos , and from this it has come that 
the name of chrysalis has been given to this stage 
of the creatures life, which when it crawled about 
and ate, was called a caterpillar. A pitiable sort 
of life would it be if chrysalis-life were allbut better 
times await it. We have said that the chrysalis is 
shapeless, but if we examine it more closely we shall find 
that in the curious angular body slight traces of parts are 
visible. They show that there is something carefully 
packed and folded up within the casesomething which 
is soon to be unpacked and unfolded. Only a little more 
time and a little more warmth, and the changes which 



   


 . 


are going on within the brown or golden case are com 
pleted, and another form of life begins. 

LIFE THE THIRD.The summers hot sun shines 
day after day on the little mummies upon the garden 
wall or paling, or which hang in the tents or little bowers 
formed of the tender leaves or twigs of plants. It has 
ripened, and brought to its most perfect form the life 
now about to begin. The hard and brittle case which 
was its second form splits open like a ripe seed vessel, 
and from it comes out the bright and graceful creature 



we call a butterfly. A creature gifted with eyes to see 
with, antennae to feel with, proboscis to feed itself with, 
legs to crawl with, and four light and lovely wings to fly 
with. When first it comes forth from the coffin-like case 
which held it, the delicate wings are crumpled up and 
shapeless, covered with the damp of its late tomb ; but 
no sooner is it in the soft warm air and free, than the 
life-juices begin to circulate in its veins, and gradually 
the wings are straightened out and spread. From time 
to time a sort of shiver seems to run through the frame 
as this comes about. The long trunk which lay along 
the under part of the body is drawn up, and gently coiled 


 . 


   


into the place for it under the head. It seems but a fine 
thread this proboscis, but it is really a tube, for hence 
forth the life of the creature is to be supported, not by 
eating the leaves of plants, but by sucking up through 
that long tube the honey of flowers. At last the wings 
are expanded to their full size and form. Their delicate 
veinings and pretty markings are to be seen. White or 
yellow, with black spots and veinsred bandsorange 
tipspatches of brown velvetborders of brilliant blue 
scolloped edges and slender points and anglesall 
the beautiful varieties of pattern, colour, and outline, 
according to their kind, are visible. A gentle trembling 
seems to shake the wings, as if the creature were im 
patient for flight; and then a flutter, and at last it 
suddenly mounts into the air, and is gone ! gone to 
enjoy the warm sunshine, the soft air, the enticing flower 
scents, and delicious and delicately-flavoured nectar, now 
out of this flower and now out of thathoneysuckle, 
rose, jasminethrough the live-long day. 

The coming forth of the bright winged butterfly from 
the seemingly lifeless chrysalis has often been looked 
upon as a likeness to the spirit of a human being leaving 
the body at the moment of death; but though the 
manner in which the life of this and every other insect 
passes through such curious changes, is most wonderful 
and most mysterious to us, it does not really help to 
strengthen our hope of an immortal life, since the chry 
salis is not dead, and the butterfly only lives to lay its 
eggs and then die. The ancient Greeks, however, looked . 


upon the butterfly as a type or emblem of the soul, and 
gave it the name of Psyche, which was the Greek word 
for soul or spirit, and at last the emblem of the soul came 
to be represented by them, in painting and sculpture, as 
a beautiful young female with the wings of a butterfly. 



PlERIS BRASSIC/E, OR CABBAGE BUTTERFLY. 


Among the many butterflies which flit about our 
gardens during spring, summer, and autumn, there is not 
one which is so sure to be a dweller there as the species 
whose common English name is the    Cabbage Butter 
fly. Few gardens are there which do not grow cabbages, 
and this creature may be said to be born and bred upon 
cabbage leaves. The strange foreknowledge which we 
call instinct, led the parent butterfly to deposit her eggs 
on the large and succulent cabbage leaves, which, when 
they are hatched, are sure to afford ample food for the 
caterpillar through the whole of its life. It need never 
leave the plant. When one leaf is eaten up all but the 











 . A I 

veins, it has only to move to another, and then go on 
munching again with its horny jaws, which, for the con 
venience of leaf eating, do not move up and down, but 
backwards and forwards sideways, like pincers or shears. 
The egg out of which the caterpillar 
comes is seen when highly magnified 
to be of a most beautiful form, some 
what like a flask or bottle, delicately 
carved with ribs and furrows and 
fretwork. The caterpillar when full- 
grown is a blueish grey colour, with yellow stripes on 
each side, and the whole body is spotted with minute 
black dots, with a white hair in each dot. When we see the 
devastation which can be done to our cabbage plants by 
these caterpillars, and when we hear of the number of eggs 
sometimes laid by one butterfly on a single leaf, we may 
wonder that any cabbages at all are left for human beings 
to eat, but this is easily explained, for caterpillars are the 
chief food of many young birds. When a sparrow, for 
instance, has a nest full of young fledglings crying out 
and gaping for food, it has only to repair to the cabbage 




Chrysalis and Caterpillar of Cabbage Butterfly. 


plants in our own or a neighbours garden, and can at 
ease pick off all it wants of the soft savoury creatures 
that its young require for their nourishment. It is said 
that a parent sparrow will sometimes carry home to its 
nest as many as two thousand caterpillars in one week. 
Insects, too, prey on them, as the ichneumon fly, which 
will lay its eggs in their bodies, and the eggs being 
hatched there, the larva , or fly-grub, will gradually eat 



Vanessa Io (Peacock Butterfly). 


up the body of the caterpillar, who still goes on eating 
until nearly the last spark of life is leftthe grub itself 
taking care to avoid the more vital parts of the cater 
pillar, so that its own food supply may be continued as 
long as possible. When the caterpillar by chance 
escapes being captured by a bird or being preyed on by 
the ichneumon fly, it hangs itself up, head downwards, 
to the garden wall or paling, or to the branch of some 
fruit-tree, and turns to an angular black-spotted chrysalis, 
fastened round the body with a belt of silk. 


 . 


   


The Cabbage Butterfly of our garden, however, is a 
very common and homely looking insect, compared to 
others which live on the honey of our flowers. We have 
there, flitting about in the sunshine through many months 
of the year, first one and then another of some beautiful 
sister butterflies, having the same family name of Va 
nessa, but who are distinguished one from another by 
second names, such as  Io,  Atalanta/  Cardui/ etc., 
and by the English common names of  Peacock/ e Red 
Admiral/  Painted Lady/ and  Tortoiseshell/ etc. 
Most lovely in form and colour are these sisters; their 
wings being not only very elegant in outline, but adorned 
with spots and stripes of blue, black, and white, and with 
bands of red on a velvety ground of rich brown, all three 
somewhat alike and yet very different and easy to be dis 
tinguished one from another. We cannot claim all these 
as natives of our garden, though they are so often seen 
there, for, strange to say, these gay creatures, who are so 
bright and delicate, and might be supposed to have been 
born and bred among our choicest flowers, are really 
natives of some neighbouring bit of common-land or . 
waste ground by the road side. There the caterpillars 
have been hatched from eggs which were laid on the 
leaves of the nettles and thistles which grow in such 
places, and after the caterpillar has fed on these leaves 
until it is ready to take the chrysalis form, they still 
remain on the plant. Constructing themselves little cages 
or tents, partly of the stinging and prickly leaves of the 
plants, and partly of silken webs and threads which draw 


   


rHE DWELLERS IN OUR GARDENS. 


them together, they there undergo the curious change. A 
few weeks is sufficient time for them to pass from the newly- 
hatched caterpillar state to that of the perfect butterfly. 



Chrysalis of Vanessa urtica, or of the Nettled 

When once escaped, however, from the little angular 
mummy-case suspended among the thistle and nettle 
leaves, with their wings ready for flight, and their long 
trunks ready for suctionthen it is that the Vanessa sisters 



Vanessa urtica (Tortoiseshell Butterfly). 



 . 


   


become ours. The road-side nettle has no food that 
will suit their newly-acquired taste for honey, nor has the 
thistle, with its closely packed tuft-like flowers, so they 
come over our garden walls to us. They depend upon 
our flowers, and flitting from one to another, poise upon 
their expanded corollas, and gracefully unfolding their 
coiled-up sucking tubes, dip them down to the nectaries 
of the flower cups and bells. They can get at honey 
which the short proboscis of the bee cannot reach, as 
well as at that which is at the bottom of flower tubes 
too narrow for the entrance of the bees body. Only 
when the time comes for providing for the continuance 
of their beautiful race, do they go back to the nettles of 
the road-side, or the thistles of the common, in order to 
deposit their eggs on the same sort of leaves that in the 
caterpillar form had served for their own nourishment. 
Does some curious remembrance of what their former 
life was, among those nettles and thistles, guide them 
back to them; or do they know that there, among the 
stinging and prickly leaves, their eggs will be safe from 
the disturbance of human hands ? Does some fairy 
whisper to them that there their offspring will be safer 
than among the buds and blossoms that those human 
fingers are so apt to meddle with ? We only fancy this, 
for we know that they are but led by the unerring instinct 
which seems sometimes to guide these small creatures 
more safely and surely than human beings are always 
guided by the reason of which they are so proud. And 
these eggs, which to our unassisted eyes would appear 


   


 . 


only like tiny round beads, when highly magnified are 
found to have most curious and beautiful forms. 

Some of the Vanessa family, however, have still more 
to do with our gardens, since one of these,    Vanessa 
comma so called because of a little mark on the under 
side of its wings like a comma or letter Cwill stay with 
us altogether, and lay its eggs on the leaves of a currant- 



Butterflys Eggs, highly magnified. 


bush or hop-plant, so that we may thus have it through 
all its forms of life when these eggs are hatched. The 
 Vanessa urtica, too, though her second name does 
mean  of the nettle / will at times, when a caterpillar 
come and hang herself by a silken thread beneath the 
coping-stone of a garden wall for the sake of its shelter y 
and  Vanessa cardui, or    of the thistle ,, if she find out 
that we have artichokes in our kitchen gardens, will lay 
her eggs upon its spiked leaves, and the caterpillar, after 














 . 


   


feeding on these, will, when it comes to the time for 
changing into a chrysalis, construct a little tent of them, 
drawing together the smaller leaves with silken cords, so 
as to make a safe shelter, and thus causing the entrance 
into life of the beautiful  Painted Lady   to be within 
the confines of our garden walls. 

Butterflies are not only very beautiful, but are also very 
curious creatures; as we find when we help ourselves 
with the microscope in order to examine them more care 
fully, and from the moment that the caterpillar has left 
the egg there are to be found traces in their structure of 
what we may call a preparation for the perfect form of 
the butterfly, which is little by little arrived at as it grows 
and passes through its first two stages of life. It is no 
wonder that the caterpillar should feed so ravenously, 
since it is nourishing itself in order to provide material 
for the other forms into which its life is to pass. Careful 
naturalists who have dissected and magnified very highly 
the insides of caterpillars have discovered in their bodies 
signs and tokens of what was to be afterwards the 
butterflys wings. In the chrysalis they can see it still 
more plainly. But we need not so much wonder at this, 
because it is what we find in all animal and vegetable 
life and growth. All the forms of life have small be 
ginnings, hid as it were in other forms. From an egg 
the size of a cocoa-nut comes the great ostrichfrom the 
small acorn the mighty oak, with its wide-spread branches, 
its solid trunk, and millions of leaves. Something in the 
egg becomes the future bird, and something in the seed 


    


 . 


becomes the future tree or plant; and in the same way, 
something in the caterpillar becomes the future butterfly. 
Even if we cannot see them, we may be sure that such 
parts as the delicate feelers with the knobs at the end, 
which are probably the organs of scent, as well as the 
long proboscis, are in preparation from the first, though 
neither caterpillar nor chrysalis has need of them; and 
the lovely wings which make the butterfly such a different 
creature to the soft and crawling worm or the shapeless 
chrysalis, are also there, hidden in the caterpillar. Only 
one thing is alike in each of the three forms, since in all 
are found the spiracles, or small breathing-holes, down 
each side of the body, through which the air is inhaled 
which is essential to the continuance of life. 

Like many other insects, butterflies have two large 
eyes on each side of the head, which are fixed and im 
movablenot turning in every direction like our own 
eyes in search of those objects we want to see, nor like 
our eyes in admitting light by one aperture, but composed 
of innumerable little eye-lets , or facets, which perhaps 
reflect objects like tiny mirrors. Such eyes are called 
compound eyes, and no doubt perfectly suit the purposes 
of the butterfly during its short life, when a few flowers 
holding a drop of nectar, and a leaf or two of the right 
sort to lay its eggs on, are all that it has to look out for. 

We must all have noticed that if we attempt to hold a 
butterfly after we have captured it, a fine flaky powder 
comes off on our fingers, which we have perhaps been 
told as children was the feathers of the butterflys wings. 


 . 


   


But this is scarcely the fact, for when highly magnified, 
it is found to be composed of coloured scales, rather 
than feathers. In each variety of butterfly, these scales 
somewhat differ in form or texture, and are found to be 
placed on a gauze-like frame-work, one lying on another 
like tiles on the roof of a house. Those on the under 
side of the wing being often different in form to those on 
the upper side. 



Scales of Butterflys Wings, highly magnified. 


The motion in the wings of butterflies is very different 
from that of birds, from their not moving both wings at 
the same time. They do not rest in the air, nor swoop , 
but flutter up and down in a zig-zag, which manner of 



flight is perhaps a safeguard in some respects from cap 
ture by birds, and enables them to elude their pursuit. 


E 











  


 . 


The slender antennae, or feelers, which every butterfly 
has on its head, are found to be jointed or movable, so 
that they can be bent slightly; but whether asleep or 
awake, they are always erect, and not like those of the 
moth when asleep, bent back over or under the body. 



Head of Vanessa atalanta, or Red Admiral Butterfly, 
showing the two feelers, the large compound eye, and the pro 
boscis unfurled. 

The structure of the proboscis, or trunk of the butterfly, 
is very curious. When the perfect insect first comes out 
from the chrysaliss case, it is extended along the 
stomach, and while the wings are being gradually ex 
panded into their full form and size, it is disengaged and 
rolled up into a spiral coil. It is formed of two long 
blades, each hollowed out in a furrow, and after first one 





 .     

is drawn up and then the other, the two portions are put 
together, and form a double tube most delicately jointed, 
so that when wanted by the creature, it can be gracefully 
uncoiled, and dipped down into a flower, no matter how 
deep its tube or bell may be; and in this respect the 
butterfly has an advantage over the bee, since it is 
enabled, as we have seen, to take possession of honey 
which the short proboscis of the latter has not been able 



Fore-legs of Caterpillar. 



Hind-legs or Claspers. 


to reach, or which lay at the bottom of flower-bells and 
tubes that his body could not get into in order to rifle. 
The six or four slender and jointed legs of the butterfly 
are very different to those of the caterpillar, in whom the 
six fore-feet are furnished with pointed claws, which assist 
it in weaving and adjusting the silken thread which 
comes from its head. After letting itself down by a line, 
to break its fall or escape from capture by birds, it uses 


e   


    


 . 


these to haul itself up again. The other ten legs are 
called clasp ers, their use being to enable the caterpillar 
to cling tightly to the leaf or stem of the plant on which 
it feeds, and when magnified are found to be like suckers,, 
which adhere by means of the air being excluded beneath 
them ; and as the fly can walk on the ceiling by means 
of such suckers at the end of its legs, so can the cater 
pillar hold itself on to the under side of a leaf. When 
it is spinning the silk thread which comes from its head, 
or weaving a web with it, or passing a belt round its 
body when about to change to a chrysalis, these claspers 
hold it securely fixed to some object. 

The casting off of the skin several times in the course 
of the caterpillars life is very curious, and during the 
operation, the creature leaves off eating and looks sick 
and ill, and the old skin shrivels up. When gradually it is 
wriggled off, the new skin beneath appears smoother in- 
texture and brighter in colour than the last, and the 
caterpillar seems altogether larger, as if the new garment 
were not put on before it was wanted. The change of 
skin of the caterpillar is like the moulting of birds, and 
the growth of fresh hair over the bodies of quadrupeds. 

It would seem that in some respects the different 
species of butterflies often differ from each other in 
habits, although belonging to the same family. This is 
especially seen in regard to the manner in which they 
pass the winter, or hybernate. In order that the race of 
each should be continued from year to year, one of the 
forms of their life must last through the cold of our 


 . 


   


winters, and in spite of their love of warmth and sun 
shine, and seeming dependence on flowers, we find that 
it is often the butterfly which survives. When the 
cold days of autumn come on the butterfly will fold up 
its wings one against the other, slip into some crack or 
cranny in a wall, or paling, or tree trunk, and there in a 
state of lethargy or sleep await the return of spring. A 
very fine warm day, even as late as the end of November, 
or beginning of December, will waken up some of them 



from their winter sleep, and entice them out to see if 
such a thing as a honey-holding flower-cup is yet to be 
found. With other species it will be the chrysalis which 
lasts through the winterthe butterfly coming forth from 
it with the earliest sunshine of spring, while some very 
few eggs of the caterpillars will remain on withered 
leaves, or on the stems of plants, and be hatched in 
spring by the same warmth which has brought out the 
young leaves they require for their food. 



   


 . 


We cannot attempt to tell of all the lovely butterflies 
which, during the summer months, will from time to time 
pay visits to our gardens, from their different native 
placesall of them being so free to rove, that no wonder 
they venture sometimes on a little foreign travel. They 
come to us from sweet meadows starred over with butter 
cups and ox-eye daisies, and reddened with spikes of 
flowering sorrelfrom banks where dog-violets hold up 
their blue flowers to the sun, and primroses nestle 



Orange-tip Butterfly. 


among their leaves. They come from fields of clover 
and beansfrom river banks, where reeds and rushes, 
and willow-herb grow so tall, and are all alive with insect 
life. Others come from shady woods and copsesothers 
from heaths covered with ling and purple heather, and 
golden'broom ; and from commons where the luscious- 
scented gorse is flowering, and others from chalky downs 
where the tiny eye-bright and milk-wort and dwarf bed- 
straws grow among the short grass. When we happen to 


 . 


   


know where they come from, they remind ns of these 
sweet native homes of theirs, where they have lived their 
two former lives. They give life and colour to our 
gardens, and cause us pleasant surprises as we find the 
pretty phantoms there among our flowers, and though we 
do not always remember it, they form one of the charms 
of our summer days. We do not quarrel with them, as 
with the snail and spider, because they so please our 


/ 

j 



Chrysalis of Orange-tip placed on bough so as to look like 

part of it. 

eyes j but somehow ,we hold them a little in contempt. We 
think of them as frivolous and thoughtless of the future, 
and consider them unworthy to be compared to the 
careful and provident bee or ant, just when they are lead 
ing the life they were created to live, and doing as 
their natures prompt them to do. Ought we not rather 
to remind ourselves of the tender forethought which 
leads them to lay their eggs only where the right kind of 
food will be supplied to the young caterpillar the. mo- 



    


 . 


ment it is hatched ; and more than this seems to de 
termine many of them in the laying of their eggs. The 
care shown by one butterfly alone, for instancethe 
Colias Hyale, or Pale-yellow-clouded Butterflyought 
to redeem the whole race from the charge of frivolity. 
Instinct leads her when the time for depositing her eggs 
comes in the early summer, to lay them on the delicate 
leaves of the clover or trefoil. The egg is hatched, and 
the small caterpillar not only feeds on tire leaves, but 
finds in them a protection from cold and damp. Each 
leaflet of the trefoil has a way of folding itself upone- 
half of the leaflet against the other half, when night falls. 
The little caterpillar has, therefore, only to stretch itself 
along the mid-rib of the leaf when the sun has set, and then 
the leaf folding itself up, and its toothed edges clasping 
closely together, the tender body of the caterpillar is en 
closed within a soft cradle during the hours of dampness 
and cold; and when the sun again rises and expands the 
clover leaf it may begin to eat its couch for its morning 
meal! We like to give the Colias Hyale some credit 
for obeying so carefully the promptings of her nature; 
but we must also remind ourselves of the Beneficence and 
Love which has given to her nature that forethought 
which is so tenderly to secure the preservation of a little 
caterpillars life. To each creature has been given, by 
its Creator, either a desire to provide beforehand for its 
young, food and safety, or the means of protecting it 
when born; and at the same time there is given to it the 


 . 


   


sort of knowledge which is needed to satisfy the desire, 
as well as for the employment of the means of pro 
tection. 



/* 


Vanessa cardui (of the thistle)P ainted Lady, 







   


 . 



|g| UNDERGROUND DWELLERS AND WORKERS. 


n* *  OST curious and yet most true is 
* ^ ie stor y we h ave to tell of how 


  IV. 


while we walk about our gardens, 


treading our gravel paths and cross 


ing our grass plots and lawns, there is living and working 
beneath our very feet a race of small creatures whom we 
may describe as a people who dwell in large communities 
underground, and who inhabit cities formed of caves 
instead of houses. At times we see very little of the 
inhabitants of these cave-cities above ground, but in the 
early part of the year, a portion of them being employed 
in forming fresh underground dwellings for the use of 
their increasing population, we can perceive the situation 
and extent o-f their operations by the piles of earth which 
are thrown up to the surface of the ground, and which also 
enable us to judge of the great works going on beneath. 
When we consider the proportion that these earth-works 
bear to the workers, we may well call their labours most 
wonderful, especially as they are performed without the help 
of machinery or even tools. At the beginning of summer 
we may find thrown up on our lawns piles of earth which 


 . 


   


are as enormous when compared to the size of the work 
people, as were the great pyramids of Egypt to the men 
who constructed them, and even on our paths are to be 
seen piles of gravel like small craters around the openings 
of the shafts, or passages which lead down to the excava 
tions underground, which are as high when compared to 
the excavators as are our houses to their inhabitants. 
Now if we watch how these mounds of gravel are raised, we 
shall see that there are two streams of busy workers con 
stantly going up and down the shafts; one stream con 
sisting of workers who come up with small loads of earth 
which they carry to a short distance from the entrance to 
the shaft, and another stream of those who are returning to 
fetch more; and if we examine with a magnifying glass 
these tiny loads of earth or gravel, so small to our eyes, 
but yet a heavy load no doubt to the creature who 
carries it, we shall find that it is a rounded ball of soil 
which has been slightly kneaded together before it was 
brought up; and should we attempt to count these small 
loads of earth, we shall find it impossible to number 
even those which are around the entrance of a single 
shaft, and yet each of them represents the toilsome 
journey of a worker from beneath to the surface 
hundreds of thousands of small grains, telling of 
hundreds of thousands of journeys up and down; and 
when we observe all these signs of labour we may be 
sure that at such times is going on, the construction or 
enlargement of one of the cave-cities of the Underground 
Workers. 


 o 


 . 


Let us, however, see what is the form of the little 
workers, and what are their powers; and again using 
the magnifying glass, we now perceive that they have 
curious long bodies divided into three parts, that they 
have six legs, and two long feelers in front. The head, 
the chest or thorax, and the stomach or abdomen, form 
the three parts, and it is this division of the body which 
causes the creature to be called an insect, and we know 
that this particular kind of insect is called an ant. We 
all get some notion of the busy bustling fussy ways of 
ants from what we see of them above ground, but it is 
by no means so easy to find out all that relates to their 
lives beneath the ground. Curious mistakes have been 
made about them and their habits, and after all the close 
observations of a great many naturalists who have made 
them their study, we have yet much to learn about them, 
while the more we know of the tiny creatures, the more 
wonderful their doings appear to us. Of course there 
are many kinds of ants, and the habits of each kind 
differ somewhat from one another, but in some respects 
all English ants are alike in their mode of life ; and 
when we have learnt all that there is to tell about our 
garden ants, we shall find that the whole life of the 
greater number of themjust those whom we see bustling 
about here and there, and journeying up and down, is spent 
in labours that have a very important purpose. 

In each ant city there are three kinds of inhabitants, 
and on all three kinds the good of the whole community 
depends. There is no such thing as an ant living 


   l 

or working for itself, providing for its own wants or those 
of its young, as with most other creatures. All ants 
live and work together for the benefit of the whole 
population in each community. In each of the latter, 
there are males , females , and working ants . The males 
and females have to produce the young, and so supply 
inhabitants for the city, while the working ants have to 
work for, and feed, and take care of the males and 
females, and young, and construct the cave-cities, and it 
is these indefatigable little creatures with which we are 
best acquainted from seeing them above ground when 
they come up on matters of business. On them depends, 
in fact, the well-being and lives of all. It is they, as we 
have shown, who are so busy when the fine weather sets 
in, in hollowing out the caves or cells, which will be 
wanted for future progeny, and which they connect 
together with galleries and passages, so that all are 
communicable one with another. Some of the caves 
are for the reception of the females who are to become 
the mothers of a future generation, others are for the 
males, and others are destined for the eggs which pro 
duce the grubs or larvae, and others for the cocoons 
from which the perfect ants are to be hatched. The 
female ants being much larger than either the males or 
workers, larger cells are wanted for them of an oval form 
suited to the shape of their bodies, and where they are 
waited upon and tended with great care and respect, 
since on them depends the keeping up of the population, 
which seems to be the great aim of all ant labour and 


   


THE DWELLERS *IN OUR GARDENS. 


industry; and when we consider how a constant diminu 
tion of their numbers must be going on from the fact 
that many species of birds make them their food, we 
can understand how necessary this strong instinct is in 
the nature of the little creatures, if the ant race is not 
to die out and become extinct. The greatest care, and 
exactness, and skill is shewn in the formation of the 
little cave cells. The walls of them are built up of grains 
of earth, fitted into each other with great precision, and 
then it would seem they are covered over with some 
kind of cement which the creature has the power of 
secreting from its body, and when the whole is done, the 
small mason will carefully pass his feelers over his work to 
see that all is smooth, compact, and firm, just as a human 
mason will measure his work with his rule to satisfy 
himself that his bricks are all level, and his wall 
upright. 

During the winter, ants spend their time in a torpid 
state in their underground caves, and at this time 
the hive is filled perhaps only with workers, and the 
cocoons ready for hatching when warm weather comes, 
and it is to prepare for the fresh populations that new 
works, and additions to their cities are made in spring, 
and when these are once finished the whole character 
and employment of the working ant undergoes a com 
plete change. The same anxiety for the good of the 
whole community, the same devotion to the interests of 
their race and city shew themselves, and the same self- 
denial and unwearied industry goes on, but they are now 


 . 


    


no longer miners or masons, no longer  navvies , but 
become most tender and careful  nurses' From the 
time that the city is supplied with new abodes, and that 
the warmth of the sun is felt even beneath the earth, 
the wonderful transformation begins within the ant- 
cocoon which is to change its contents into a living 
creature. Just when the mother bird is sitting on her 
eggs in her snug nest, so as to give the warmth needed 
for their change into young birds, the ant nurses begin 
their loving attentions to the cocoons in their caves, 



Ant highly magnified, carrying Cocoon. 


which also require heat for their change into living ants. 
More eager bustling begins among them, which we cannot 
always see, since it goes on beneath ground. When the 
sun shines out bright and warm, the cocoons in the cells 
deep down below in the hive, must be carried up to nearer 
the surface, where the warmth will reach them, and to 
effect this the whole army of nurses,is in commotion: 
and if we can manage to catch sight of them at such 
times we shall see each little worker with a white oblong 
cocoonnot very unlike a baby in swaddling clothes 




    . 

held by the end in her" jaws or mandibles which she 
carries before her, and which forms a load almost as 
large as her own body, or even larger if it be the cocoon 
of a future male or female. But the cocoons have 
perhaps not long been placed in the warmer cells, or 
laid in some passage or gallery near the opening of a 
shaft, when the sun becomes obscured and a shower 
begins to fall. Now although the white covering of 
the cocoons is a tolerably tough and strong material, yet 
it would not do for them to be exposed to both cold and 
damp, and the careful nurses have to set to work to carry 
their charges all back to the lowermost cells where the 
rain will not reach themto bring them up again, it may 
be, before the day is over, in case the sun should re-appear. 
No end is there in fact to the tender care, and in 
defatigable attention of the nurses. It has been no 
doubt this running about with the white cocoons in their 
mandibles, or the finding of them in their nests in the 
winter, which has led to the mistake of supposing that 
ants stored up grains of corn and other seeds, which is 
certainly not the case with any ants known in England, 
who pass the winter in a dormant state. Naturalists have 
however lately become aware that a peculiar species of 
ant found in some other countries, does lay up a store 
of food such as corn and rice, and have named them 
   harvesting ants. It may have been of such, that King 
Solomon speaks, who was so knowing about plants and 

*We may say her, since it has been discovered that the working 
ants are really females, though imperfectly formed ones, so that 
they do not produce eggs. 


 . 


   


animals, where in his proverbs he describes the ant as 
 providing her meat in summer and getting her food in 
the harvest, while in another way his knowledge was 
also most correct, since he speaks of the ant as  having 
no guide, overseer, or ruler, for it is certain that all the 
operations of the working ant, all her busy industry and 
anxiety for the good of the community to which she 
belongs, arises from an impulse within the little creature 
forming part of her nature, which is very like the love 
of duty in a human being. It does not surprise us to 
find other animals taking tender care of their young, and 
we admire the devotion and self-denial which they 
often show towards them, but with the ant-nurses it is 
the young of others whom they tend, and the good of 
the whole of their fellow-citizens, which is the aim of 
their labour. They seem to have the feeling which we 
call love of our country, or national honour and pride. 
They are not slaves by any means, for no one orders or 
exercises authority over themthey are rather willing 
and devoted servants to the general good. The powers, 
feelings, and affections of ants being so many and so 
curious, it has been said that the brain of an ant, perhaps 
no larger than a fine grain of sand, must be the most 
wonderful particle of matter in the world. 

But though our ants do not store up food, nor eat in the 
winter, it has at other times a good appetite, and within our 
garden walls an abundant supply of food is found, suited 
to the taste and fitted for the nourishment of the ant 
colonies. They like most kinds of fruits, sweet roots, 

F 


   


 . 


and even the flesh of slugs and snails. A dead mouse 
or sparrow is soon attacked and their bones picked clean 
by hungry ants. We know too well how a fallen pear 
or apple is often found to be hollowed out by ants, and 
how our peaches and nectarines are attacked by them 
and riddled with holes. Nothing in fact that is sweet 
comes amiss to them, and portions of food are at all 
times carried down by the workers to the grubs or larvae 
hatched from the eggs, or to the young ants which have 
just left the cocoons. Their strong jaws or mandibles 
enable them to bite solid food and carry it in their 
mouths, while they have also a kind of hollow tongue 
like a scoop which can be used for lapping up liquids, 
and is perhaps employed for taking home some of 
the sweet juices of fruit. We know how wonderful 
is sometimes the persistent industry and determination 
of the little creatures, in getting at the kinds of food they 
like best. To an ant-city at one side of our garden, for 
instance, there is carried somehow in August the perfume 
of the ripening peaches on the wall at the opposite side. 
We cannot detect the fragrant odour so far off ourselves, 
but the sensitive nerves of the tiny ants must discover it 
in the air. It may, to be sure, be possible that some 
adventurous ant traveller has penetrated across the vast 
(to them) extent of land which stretches between their 
hive and the wall where hang the downy peaches that 
are getting softer and sweeter every day, and that he has 
journeyed back to tell his fellow citizens what he has 
discovered, and has induced a large party to set off and 


 . 


0  


make a causeway across the paths and beds, and form 
tunnels under the turf borders, to where the peaches can 
be reached by climbing the wall. We can easily see 
that a long procession of them is constantly doing this, 
though we know not exactly how they have first been 
induced to undertake such a distant exploration. But 
there can be no doubt that ants have wonderful ways of 
communicating with each other, nor that they have 
something like a language of their own. If we watch a 
party going to and fro across a path, we soon observe 
that they occasionally stop as they pass each other, 
touch one another with their feelers or antennae, and then 
continue their route, much as we do ourselves when we 
meet a friend and have a chat with him in the street. 
Naturalists who have observed the ways of ants very 
carefully and constantly, have seen that when any 
calamity has occurred in the colony, the workers will 
run about and tell the news to those at a distance, with 
a touch of their feelers, and that then all who are so 
warned will hurry to the scene of the disaster in order to 
set about repairing it. Perhaps even sounds are emitted 
by ants, and many other insects, which are too fine and 
high pitched for our ears to hear, as the elephant who 
hears the deep notes of an organ or drum, cannot hear 
the high and shrill notes of a pipe or flute. There have 
been cases where ants seem to have got scent of some 
store of honey, or treacle, or sweet preserve within a 
house, and have journeyed a long distance in great num 
bers to reach it, even making their way down chimneys 


   


 . 


to get to the luscious store, but our garden ants are 
generally contented with what they can find without 
doors. 

Nothing, too, is more certainly true in the ways of 
ants, than that they supply their keen craving for 
sweet liquid food by having recourse to the honey dew 
which is secreted from the bodies of the little green aphis 



Aphisthe Cow of the Ant 
highly magnified. 

or plant louse, which lives upon the sap of our rose trees, 
and of which other kinds are to be found on our larger 
trees, such as the poplar, oak, lime, and apple tree. 
The rose aphides have even been called the  cattle of the 
ants, and the latter are said to milk them like cows for 
their sweet juices, and even to capture them and keep 
them in their hives for this purpose. Watching the 
stem of a rose which happens to be covered with these 
delicate little creatures in thick clusters, we shall not be 
long before we perceive some ants among < them, and 
with a magnifying glass may detect one touching an 
aphis with its feelers, striking with a rapid motion like 


 . 


   


the beating of two drum-sticks just where two little 
projections stand out from the back of the aphis like a 
double tail. These are the teats of the ants cow, and 
soon there can be seen oozing out from them drops of 
the sweet syrup which the ant eagerly laps up. The 
life of the aphis is one long process of sucking up the sap 
of the rose stem, first piercing it with the sharp proboscis 
beneath its head, which penetrates the outer green bark 
and acts also as a sucker. The sap of the plant, which at 
first is not sweet, as it circulates in the rose stem, becomes 
converted into a kind of honey in the body of the aphis, 
as the nectar of flowers is changed into honey in the 
body of the bee. And there can be no doubt that as 
the bee carries home within its body to the hive the 
juices of flowers, so the ant carries to the male and 
female ants, or young ones at home, some of the sweet 
honey dew it has lapped up. So fond are ants of this 
kind of food that they will even excavate long under 
ground passages like railway tunnels, to the foot of the 
trees or shrubs where are to be found the different 
species of aphis or plant lice, in order that they may 
make their way easily backward and forward from the 
hive during the season when the honey dew is being 
produced by the aphides. 

And now we must return to the history of the cocoons, 
which the nursing ants take so much care of, and carry 
up and down according as they want extra warmth for 
them to bring them to maturitythe shifting and 
carrying about of the little white oblong cocoons in their 


   


 . 


jaws going on for some weeks of spring, and then, from 
some tokens best known to the watchful nurses, they find 
that the young ant has come to perfection within the 
cocoon, and is ready to come out and enter upon 
ant life and be fed; and not waiting until the little 
insect has made its own way out of its envelope, as the 
young bird contrives to do from its enveloping shell, the 
workers have been seen to bite the ends of the cocoons, 
and making an aperture, help the young ants to extricate 
themselves from them. Sometimes this matter is not so 
easily managed, and two workers have been seen pulling 
at the little creature to disentangle it from the cocoon. 
The ant once launched into life, it makes all the differ 
ence in its value and importance to its native city, 
whether it has proved to be a male or female, or merely 
an ordinary worker like those who assisted at its birth, 
and since the two former are much larger than the 
workers, it follows that the cocoons are also larger, and 
have been from the first placed in larger cells prepared 
especially for them, so that even from the time of the egg 
being laid by the mother ant it has been the most care* 
fully preserved and tended. The females are much the 
largest of the three kinds of ants, and are at all times 
treated with the greatest honour and respect, and get the 
choicest food and the most abundant supply of it, since 
they are to become the mothers of the future generation 
which is to keep up the numbers of the ant colony. 
Ants do not, like bees, make a queen of one particular 
mother ant, but are glad to have among them as many 


 . 


    


mothers as possible. When they emerge from the co 
coons, both males and females are furnished with gauzy 
wings, destined to be used when the time comes for their 
leaving the hive and pairing, until which time they re 
main in their cells, waited on by their attendant nurses. 
Perhaps it would not be very incorrect to say that these 
latter again change their characters at this period, and 
take upon themselves the office of jailers, while they 
watch most carefully to prevent the escape of the females 
from the hive. What can those silvery wings be for if 
not for flying with, in the air and sunshine above ground, 
and when once the mother ants are gone, who can tell 
if ever they will return again ? 

At length the time comes when all the watchful 
ness of the workers and all attempts to retain the 
female ants become useless. The summer is suffi 
ciently advanced, and the wings must be expanded 
and used for the purpose for which they were intended, 
and on some particularly warm day, the males first 
making their way out of the hive, they are followed by 
the females in spite of all the opposition of their 
guardians, and take flight into the soft air and bright 
sunshine. In terrible concern and dismay, the workers 
swarm up to the surface of the ground. The constant 
objects of their care, whether as nurses or jailers, are 
gone, and need them no longer. Thousands of ant- 
lengths high up above them, they are sporting in the air, 
among all the other winged creaturesbirds, butterflies, 
bees, wasps, and gnats. What a change from the cold, 


   


 . 


dark, underground cells, in the old ant city ! The male 
ants never return to it again, and we know not what 
becomes of them. They fall a prey perhaps to fly- 
catching birds, or perish with the cold of evening and its 
damp dews, or are captured in spiders webs. The 
females, however, seem to have an instinct which brings 
them back to the neighbourhood of their native home, 
around which workers place themselves as scouts, at 
considerable distances, on the look-out for them. No 
sooner is a female ant descried than she is surrounded 
by a number of her old jailers, and led back to the 
underground city again in triumph, in order that in one 
of the cells prepared for her she may in due time deposit 
her eggs. A few female ants so captured are sufficient 
to secure the continuance of a numerous population, 
and they again become; the objects of most obsequious 
devotion on the part of the workers until this is accom 
plished. A group of attendants constantly surrounds 
them, and their presence seems always a cause of joy 
and exultation. The workers have a way of skipping and 
leaping around them, and perform many kinds of frolics, 
to congratulate each other when a female is captured. 
 Some of them gently walk over her, says an ob 
server of ants;  others dance over her, to show their 
loyalty and affection. No sooner, however, has a 
female ant laid any eggs in a cell than the at 
tendants immediately make these the objects of 
their care and attention, instead of herself, and the ant 
mother will wander away and deposit eggs in another 


THE DWELLERS IN OUR CARDENS. 


   


cell. Should she die before she has laid any eggs, the 
attendants will stay with the body for several days, 

brushing and licking her in token of affection, or in 

 

hopes of restoring her to life. 

Before the mother ants begin to lay their eggs, however, 
a most singular operation has to be gone through, which 
is unlike anything done by any other creature. 
Their silvery wings, which enabled them to enjoy 
such a pleasant time in the open air, being no 
longer wanted for flying abroad, are to be cast aside as 
useless appendages, and the female, by biting the joints 
where they are attached to her body, and by bending 
them backwards and forwards over her back and head, 
gradually works them off. Henceforth she has only the 
task to perform of laying her eggs ; the eggs in due time 
are hatched, and the young grubs or larvie, after being 
carefully fed by the workers, whom we may again call 
nurses, weave a covering around themselves, pass through 
the change undergone by all insects within their white 
cocoons, until they become perfect ants. 

There are several very distinct species of ants to be 
met with in our woods and fields, somewhat different in 
their habits to those we have described, some of whom 
raise high hillocks of earth above the surface of the 
ground, in which they have different storeys of cells and 
galleries, used in warm weather, while other underground 
apartments are inhabited in winter time. In our gardens 
we may also distinguish two kinds of antthe Brown 
Ant, or Formica brunnea, and the Red Ant, Formica 


   


 . 


rufa. These two species of ant, though they are often 
near neighbours, would seem to be natural enemies, and 
each is perceived to guard most jealously their cities or 
colonies from being invaded by the other. The Red Ant 
is of a fiercer nature than the Brown Ant, and observers 
tell of most obstinately fought battles between them and 
their brown neighbours, in which numbers of the com 
batants will be slaughtered and left dead upon the battle 
field. In some instances these wars have been supposed 
to arise from parties of red ants wanting to carry off a 
supply of female cocoons from the brown ant colony, 
and in other cases from the brown ants wanting to get 
the services of some red workers for their own hive ; but 
such supposed origins for the battles seem less likely 
than that the two races were disputing for possession of 
some supply of favourite food. We have, however, watched 
a long-continued single combat between a red and a brown 
ant, which has been so obstinately carried on and so often 
renewed that we are ready to believe at all events in their 
enmity and disposition to fight. Other observers have no 
ticed ants at play, trying to bite each other, and chasing 
each other like frolicsome children. Very many curious 
observations have of late years been made on the ways of 
ants by naturalists, who have constructed glass cases, in 
which they have managed to establish ant communities, 
by putting into them ants of the three kindsworkers, 
males, and femaleswith a supply of earth for mining 
and cell-making, and food to their liking. By this means 
have been observed more plainly their wonderful per- 


 . 


   


severance and unfailing industry, while it has also been 
seen that ants are a very cleanly and tidy race, and in all 
their building and rearing of young take care never to 
leave any refuse material about, but give themselves the 
greatest trouble to carry such matter away. 

The good qualities in ants have caused them to 
be held up as an example to human beings in all 
ages, and we may conclude our history of these little 
creatures by telling how the perseverance of a single 
ant served to restore the courage and perseverance of 
a single man. A story is related of the Tartar prince 
and hero Timour, or Tamerlane, who at one time being 
discouraged and cast down by the defeat of his troops 
in some warlike excursion, was lying in his tent, and 
happened to notice an ant trying to crawl up its hang 
ings. Striking it dow r n with the end of a straw, the 
insect again and again renewed its attempts to climb 
up the curtain, and each time the warrior interrupted its 
ascent by striking it down. The prince was curious to 
see how long it would persist in its efforts, and eighty 
times the little creature renewed its attempts, and was 
eighty times knocked dow r n, until at length it conquered, 
the hero himself becoming tired of the contest, while 
full of admiration for his small conqueror, and he said 
to himself,  I will imitate this ant, and in like manner I 
too will conquer; and renewing his efforts against his own 
enemies, he became at last the conqueror of all India. 

But though men have considered the ways of the 
ant, in order to be wise, we may well ask our- 


    


 . 


selves what the little creatures have ever gained from 
us, and what sort of a notion they can have of us ? 
We have, of course, many powers and capabilities far 
above the ants, but it is sad to reflect, that if they are 
conscious at all of our presence in the world, it can only 
be as of cruel monsters who often destroy their im 
portant works, and who, if they interfere with our com 
fort or invade our luxuries, will ruthlessly slaughter 
millions of the innocent inhabitants of their under 
ground cities. Even if we would, we can scarcely 
become their benefactors or protectors. We can but 
admire them, learn all that concerns their lives, watch 
their curious ways, and examine their wonderful works, 
trying at least to leave these, our little fellow-creatures 
their place in this great and beautiful world, in which 
their lives and ours are placed and ordered. 






 . 


   


  V. 

THE BUSY ONES, WHO LOOK TO THE FUTURE. 

HERE is a retired corner 
in a certain garden which we 
know of, where stand the bee 
hives, just where a privet 
> hedge shelters them from the 
east, and a wall covered with 
an apricot-tree screens them 
from the north. On the other 
side of the wall is the orchard, 
where in spring, fruit trees are 
sure to be blossomingcherry, plum, pear, and apple 
in succession; and beyond the hedge lies the kitchen 
garden, where peas and beans, wall-fruit trees, and 
currants, and gooseberries, have much to offer to the bees 
before the summer flowers are fairly ready for them. 
Behind the hives, the hedge is covered late in spring 
with the little white spires of privet blossom, and a 
tangled vine of honeysuckle which climbs among it, puts 
forth thick clusters of its trumpet-shaped florets; while 
before the hives are laid out beds of every variety of 
flowers more or less honey-yielding, to tempt the bees 
when they do not care to roam farther. Of all the 








   


 . 


dwellers in our gardens, bees are the only ones for whom 
we provide dwellings. How do we explain this kindness 
to the little creatures? Why do we furnish them with 
these snug straw dome-shaped hives, and take care that 
they have about them all the flowers, and blossoms 
possible which can supply them with food ? 

We will answer these questions by pretending, after 
the manner of fables, to have heard a conversation 
between an old and a young bee, buzzed out one morning 
early in spring. 

Young Bee (taking one of his first flights from the 
hive, and noticing the outside aspect of the home in 
which he was born): Dear me! what a beautiful large 
house we live in! How grandly formed it is, and how 
thick its walls are. That is the reason I suppose why 
we are so snug and warm inside. Did you old bees 
make it last season? 

Old Bee:  Bless me, no, young onewe only make 
the combs inside it. These hives are made of twisted 
stalks of corn which we have nothing to do with, and 
never can get a drop of honey out of. Men make hives 
which are, as you say, very snug and warm, but not 
after all so difficult to make, or requiring such great 
precision as our combs inside them. 

Young Bee: Well! now I do think men are kind 
to us bees. Why, they dont make homes like these 
hives for the butterflies or beetles, or caterpillarsor 
even for the wasps, do they? 

Old Bee (buzzing rather sulkily): No! they do not 


 . 


   


but I cant say I see that that proves any great 
kindness to us bees. In former days, and even now in 
other countries, bees get on very well without these great 
conical straw hives (Old Bee used this word conical 
because he and his fellow bees are considered very 
clever mathematicians by nature). They used to make 
their nests, and form their combs in hollow trees, and 
holes in rocks and banks; and it did very wellperhaps 
better on some accounts than these hives, where we are 
always cramped for room. 

Young Bcc: Holes in rocks and hollow trees better 
than these grand gold coloured domes! Well, I must 
say I do not agree with you, old worker. 

Old Bee:  Dont you, young bee; then all I can say 
Is, wait till the Autumn ! Wait till you, and I, and all the 
nest of us, have toiled, and moiled, and gathered honey 
from this blossom and that blossom, this flower and that 
flower, from morn till night, and from day to day the 
whole summer long. Up, and out, and at work every 
morning soon after sun-rise, and leaving off only at sun 
downbackwards and forwards to the hive with our 
loads, through the long summer day, and only allowing 
ourselves just a little sip of honey now and then for our 
own food. Never thinking of anything but how we can 
get enough to store up for the wants of our people at 
home, while at other times we are labouring inside the 
hive at cell-making, to stow it all in for the winter, and to 
use as cradles for our young ones. And when summer 
is overthen see what they do with us ? and our beautiful 


So 


 . 


combs all brimful of golden honey ! Very kind of them 
indeed to spare some of onr lives (mine, for instance, last 
autumn), so that we may be able to build more combs 
and fill them with honey the next summer again. Why, 
you inexperienced, silly young bee! When youre a 
little older and wiser, you'll find that the hive-making, 
and the sparing of our lives too, when the flower season 
is over, is all in order that they may get every drop of 
our honey that they want for their uses, usesabuses, 
abuses, buz, buz; and thus ending his discourse, the 
old bee flies away, anxious after all to get to business 
again. The young bee, stunned at first with dismay 
at the terrible revelation made to him by age and 
experience, settles for a moment in sad contemplation 
on the tip of a tulip bud, and then catching the scent 
of some daffodils near at hand, flies off, and is soon 
buried in the cup of one of them, lapping up the sweet 
syrup at the bottom with his wonderful tongue, and by 
the time he meets the old bee again on their return 
home, with stomachs loaded with honey, he has forgotten 
all about the knowledge imparted to him in the morning, 
and both creep in very contentedly at the little entrance 
to the hive, troubling themselves very little about the 
selfishness of hive-making and honey-stealing men. 

We human beings do keep bees, in order that we may 
take possession of a good portion of their honey, but 
we are glad also to have them as dwellers in our gardens, 
because we like to observe their very curious ways and 
works. We feel interested in the little creatures, because 


 .      

although they differ so greatly from us in size and form, 
they are like us in some of their qualities, and in many 
of their doings. Bees have skill and industry, and fore 
thought like men. They are clever in providing for 
their present wants, and have a strange knowledge of 
what awaits them in the future, as if, like men, they learnt 
it from their parents or from books. They know, for 
instance, or seem to know, quite as well as men, that 
flowers do not last all through the year, and out of their 
mysterious consciousness of this fact, arises all their 
industry and the exercise of much of their skill. They 
feel somehow that they have no time to losethat they 
must waste no hour of the sunshine which opens the 
flowers, and they seem aware that in the coming flower 
less season they would starve unless they had a store 
of honey for their use. They act just like men who 
work for their own support and that of their families, 
and who save up, and invent and plan in order to provide 
for the future; and they are even better than men in so 
doing, because it is for their fellow citizens and neighbours 
that they exercise their powerswhile like men they live 
together in large communities, working together peace 
fully, and seem to be obedient to the laws which keep 
them in order, and enable them to carry out plans 
successfully. They divide their labours and help one 
another, some doing one thing, and some another, like 
the workmen in large factories, all performing a certain 
amount of work suited to them, which they perform most 
accurately and perfectly, and yet not so very mechanically, 


G 


<S   . 

but that on some occasions they appear to think about 
it, and when they meet with obstacles adopt means of 
overcoming them. For all these reasons, we like to 
observe and to learn all we can of their curious natures. 

Thousands of years ago, in the grand old times of 
Greece and Rome, when there were great thinkers and 
poets, and naturalists among the people, there were these 
who observed and wrote about bees, and considered 
them most worthy of study. The Greeks called them 
by a name which meant  flower-loving, and the 
Romans by one which meant  honey-bearing. In the 
ancient books of the Jewish people, which form the 
Old Testament, we know how frequently bees and honey 
are mentioned, and how their country was described 
as a land flowing with milk and honey, which meant 
that plenty of cattle were upon the hills, and plenty of 
bees in the valleys; and from our being told in the New 
Testament, that John the Baptist lived in the desert 
on locusts and wild honey, it would seem that in 
those days people in towns and villages kept bees in 
their gardens as we do at this time. 

The interest and curiosity felt in the ways and doings 
of bees, have led some persons in modern times, to 
devote a large portion of their lives to the study and 
observation of them, and from time to time they have 
got at the truth about the little creatures, so as to set 
aside many wrong notions entertained formerly. Glass 
bee-hives, and wooden hives with glass windows to them 
covered with shutters, have been invented in order 


 . 


   

that they may be watched at their work inside, and 
especially when in the act of constructing combs, but 
although these have helped us to learn a good deal 
about them, it is still difficult to detect all their secrets, 
and to find out somp of their doings from the great 
crowd of bees engaged upon their work, just when we 
want most to observe them. In a large and well stocked 
hive there will sometimes be as many as fifteen thousand 
bees, so that the separate movements and performances 
of a single bee at work can scarcely ever be detected, 
though what is done and produced by the whole 
community is very well known. 

In every nest or hive of what are called honey or 
hive bees, to distinguish them from other bees who 
do not store up honey, and who live solitary lives (like 
the humble bees which we often see in our gardens), there 
are three kindsthe males (or drones), the females, and 



Drone. Female, or Worker, or 

Queen Bee. Neuter. 


the workers, and it is these last who are the honey- 
eatherers, the cell-builders, and those who best deserve 


G   



   


 . 


the title of busy bees. These workers used to be 
called neuters, and were supposed to be neither males 
nor females, but are now known to be imperfect females 
stunted in their growth, and incapable of laying eggs. 
They seem, however, quite capable of constant labour for 
the good of others, and take upon themselves the care of 
the whole bee family; and it is they who have all the 
peculiar bee talents and skill. The males do nothing in 
the way of work, and are treated with little respect, while 
it only matters to the hive that there should be one 
female bee, who is to become the mother of a future 
generation of bees. She is called the Queen, because 
from the devotion and reverence paid to her it used to be 
fancied that somehow she governed the rest of the popu 
lation ; but this was a wrong notion, and it is very certain 
that she issues no commands and exacts no obedience, 
but is only valued very highly by all the rest, and is taken 
great care of, because she is to be the sole mother of the 
future race. As for the males or drones, we need hardly 
say that they are a very idle set; not even going out to 
gather honey for themselves, but waiting to be fed at 
home, and only taking a little flight occasionally from the 
hive for their health or pleasure, like lazy gentlemen. It 
has been thought by some people that they act as water- 
carriers to the hive, and by others that they sat on the 
eggs to hatch them; but all we are sure of is that they 
mostly stay at home, and may help to keep up the heat 
of the hive when the workers are away, and that from 
among them the queen chooses the husband who be- 


 .    

comes the father of her future progeny. The drones 
have broad bodies and blunt tails, while the bodies of the 
female bees or queens are much longer and more slender, 
and their wings somewhat shorter than those of the 
workers. These last are the smallest of the three kinds 
of bee in a hive, and it is these whom we see gathering 
honey and pollen from flowers, and who at home pro 
duce the wax and build the cells for the reception of the 
eggs and for the storing of the honey, and who, when the 
eggs are hatched, take charge of the young larvae or grubs, 
and feed and tend them most carefully. In each hive or 
nest of bees there are usually ten times as many working- 
bees as there are males or drones. 

As there are three kinds of bees in a hive, so are there 
three kinds of material gathered by them to supply the 
wants of the hivethe nectar of flowers, which becomes 
honey ; the farina, or pollen, of flowers ; and another 
substance which they get from trees, called propolis , or 
bee-glue. The two first of these substances are found in 
most flowers, but in some is obtained more nectar, and in 
others more pollen. If we pull a single flower to pieces, 
we can mostly detect the little nectary at the base of the 
style in which the sweet syrup is found which is lapped 
up by the bee, as well as the little oblong bag at the end 
of the stamens called the anther , which when a flower is 
fully blown splits open and sheds its contentsa white, 
yellow, red, or brown powder on the style or bunch of 
styles in the centre. This pollen the bee is as careful to 
collect as honey. It is not swallowed like the nectar, but 


   


 . 


is taken home in little hollow pouches which are in the 
hind-legs of the workers, and which serve them as 
baskets, while the hairy ends of their legs help them to 
brush up and collect the powder. Sometimes when a 
flower is very full of pollen, like that of the mallow or 
hollyhock, the little creatures will quite roll themselves in 
it, and go home to the hive covered with the powder, 
which they are relieved of by other workers at home, who 
knead it into bee-bread for the hungry grubs in the cells, 
of which it forms the sole food. The substance called 
propolis , or bee-glue, is found on different kinds of trees, 
such as the poplar, the fir tree, and the horse-chesnut, 
from which oozes out a sticky kind of resin to protect the 
young buds. Bees use this as a sort of cement to stop 
up crevices and cracks of the hive, and to varnish the 
cell-work of the combs when filled and closed up, and 
they have it ready also to cover up and embalm as it 
were any noxious body which may happen to get within 
the hive. Many other creatures, such as moths, wasps, 
snails, and ants, attracted perhaps by the smell of honey, 
will get into a hive, and soon fall victims to their bold 
ness; and after stinging the intruder to death, if they 
are too large to be removed, the bees will cover them 
over with propolis, as if to embalm them, and have been 
known even to take a snail prisoner who was about to 
enter a hive, by glueing down the edge of the shell to 
the hive stand, and thus converting his house into his 
prison. 

It may now be askedwhere do bees obtain the wax 


 . 


  


with which they construct their cells, and which when 
the combs are emptied of honey, becomes such a useful 
substance to us for candles and many other purposes? 
The answer must be, that wax is honey which has been 
digested in the stomach of the bees, and which is 
secreted from it in little scales which ooze out from 
between the overlapping plates which cover the stomach 
or abdomen outside, like a little coat of mail. When 
this substance is wanted for cell building, the .bees do 
not get rid of the honey with which their stomachs are 
filled, but hang themselves up in clustersthe fore-legs 
of one holding to the hind-legs of another, and so 
making a number of loops of bees, all hanging together 
s:ill and quiet, until the contents of their stomachs are 
quite digested, and the little wax scales are formed. Other 
workers then come and take these from them, and cany 
them to the wax-workers and cell-builders, who knead 
them together for use, just as masons make a mass of 
mortar before they begin to build walls. 

There seems to be always a careful division of 
labour among the working bees in a hive, so that 
while one party goes forth to gather materials another 
party stays at home to build cells or attend to the 
young. Some observers think that certain workers are 
always wax-workers, and others always nurse-bees, but 
it is not certain if this be the case, though it is very 
certain that while the wax-workers are busy over cell 
making, and cannot attend to their own wants, they 
are most carefully supplied with honey by their fellow- 


 S 


 . 


labourers who have brought home a supply of honey. 
It is perhaps most natural to fancy that those bees 
who are engaged in cell-building must have a particular 
talent for the work which the others do not possess. It 
is one thing for a bee to be able to discover in each 
flower-cup or bell, the part which holds the sweet syrup 
he wants to get at, and to be able to pack up pollen in 
the little pair of panniers which his thighs are furnished 
with, and take it all home; and quite another thing to 
be able to form the little six-sided cells, so wonder 
fully accurate in size and shape, which are used for 
storing up the honey, and as cradles for the young 
the walls of each exactly the right shape for taking up the 
least material and occupying the least space. It is said 
that someone once asked a clever mathematician to find 
out what was the best form for taking the least room and 
using the least material when a number of small chambers 
had to be built close together, and he calculated and 
measured, and then decided that there was no form so 
advantageous as the six-sided, or hexagonal form, which 
is adopted by bees for their cells all over the world. 

The combs formed in a hive are composed of two 
layers of these six-sided cells, placed end to end, 
and these ends being each like a little pyramid formed 
of three sides, they fit in to one another with no 
space between, and as each bee makes his own cell 
complete the sides and ends of each cell are double. 
It has been thought by some naturalists that each 
bee only tries to make a tube-shaped cell, with round 


 . 


   


end like a veiy long and narrow thimble, and that it 
is the pressure of all the little workers one against 
the other, and the soft nature of the wax, which 
causes the walls and ends of each cell to be angular, 
since each bee works with six neighbours around him 
and three at the end. Even if this notion should be 
the correct explanation, it still leaves the art of bees 
most wonderful in the exactness with which they work 
at the same distance apart from each other, and 
in the many expedients they adopt to suit their work 
to their purposes. 


Portion of Comb, shewing 
how the cells are placed 
end to end, forming the 
thickness of the comb. 



When bees are employed in building up a comb, 
they work so fast and in such great numbers that a 
piece of comb containing four thousand cells has 
been found to be completed in twenty-four hours 
by its industrious architectsthat number perhaps 
being employed upon it. The outer ends of all the 
cells are at first left open. Those which are intended 
as storehouses for the honey have to be gradually filled 













  


 . 


with the little loads brought home in the stomachs 
or rather honey-bags of the busy workers, after rifling the 
flowers, and each cell is only covered over and sealed 
up with wax when filled to the very brim. Cells wanted 
for the young brood are made rather larger than those for 
honey, and are left open until the queen or mother-bee 
has dropped into each of them a single egg, and even 
then are not closed, because from each egg will be 
hatched a small white grub, or larva , which has to be 
carefully fed for a time on the bee-bread, made of pollen 
meal, which the nurse-bees bring to them and drop into 
their little wax cradles. When the grub is at last ready 
to spin itself a cocoon and change into the chrysalis 
state, the cell is closed up, and it is left to undergo this 
change in quiet and secresy; and by-and-by the chrysalis, 
or pupa , is transformed into the perfect insect, and eats 
its way out of its native cell to enter upon the life of a 
bee. After this there are to be no more changes, except 
in the nature of its business, and it has only to shake out 
its wings, and then sally forth from the hive into the 
beautiful outer world of sunshine and flowers, with the 
soft air around, filled with enticing scents from all the 
nectar cups that it may sip from, just as its fancy pleases. 
What a change from the dark, hot hive ! 

And on this coming forth from the hive, how wonder 
fully is the little creatures body provided with all that is 
needed for the business and pleasure of its life. First of 
all, its four gauzy wings, which enable it to mount up into 
the air, and of which the muscles which give them motion 


 . 


    


are so strong that they can fly sometimes as far as two 
miles and back again without fatigue. The two hind- 
wings are smaller and more delicate than the front pair, 
and in flight are caught to the latter by means of very 
small hooks, so that they seem but one pair of wings, and 
When the bee is at rest are folded beneath the larger and 
stronger wings. Then come the six 
jointed legs, the hind pair being fur 
nished with hollow pouches which serve 
to carry home to the hive the pollen 
and little pellets of propolis, or bee- 
glue. These small receptacles are lined 
with a smooth horny substance, to which 
the pollen does not adhere, and around 
their edges stands out a fringe of strong 
bristles, which prevent the contents 
carried from falling out, while the hairs 
on all the legs, and especially those on 

Hind-leg of Bee, 

the feet, serve as brushes to sweep up showing the pollen 
the pollen. pouch. 

The proboscis of a bee is a most curious little tool, or 
rather a collection of little tools, all of which have no 
doubt their meaning and purpose, and are used in all the 
different works which the busy creature spends its life in 
performing. The microscope shows us that it can be 
opened out into five different parts, the centre one of 
which is a long flexible tongue, which can be bent in 
every direction as it licks or laps up the nectar in the 
flowers,, for a bee neither sucks up its food with a spongy 



   


 . 


proboscis like a fly, nor with a long tube like a butterfly. 
At the bottom of the tongue we see the oblong bag 
into which the sweet juice is gathered, and where it 
undergoes the change which turns it into honey. On 

each side of the tongue are two jointed 
parts something like fingers, which are 
supposed to be used in gathering up 
the pollen, and perhaps also in knead 
ing it into bee-bread, and it may be 
also in moulding the wax in cell 
making. These parts, or organs, as 
well as the tongue, can be shut up 

in the two outer sheaths, which are 

 

smooth and horny, and furnished with 
bristles, so that the proboscis then forms one sharp- 
pointed tool, which is probably used in cutting and 
modelling wax, but as we can neither take our micro 
scopes into the heart of a flower nor get into a hive 
with them, people who have even spent their lives in 
observing the ways of bees are obliged to guess how the 
little case of instruments is turned to account. But we 
can judge how admirably each one must serve its pur 
pose by the accuracy and perfection of the works 
performed with it. 

Perhaps the eyes of bees are still more wonderful 
instruments, and they have what may be called two 
different sets of them. First, two large eyes on each side 
of the head, composed of a multitude of separate little 
eyelets, each with a single hair standing out from its 




 . 


   


border, so that the whole eye is thus covered with a 
hairy covering which must protect it from the fine pollen 
dust when busy in the heart of a flower. Besides these 
two compoicnd eyes, it has three other eyes in the front of 
its head, the use of which is not very certain, but since a 
bee has to work in the dark hive as well as in the bright 
sunshine, it may be that these are used when at home. 
Bees must also have a very acute sense of smell, guiding 
them even to great distances in search of flowers which 
send forth scent, and it is thought by some that their an 
tennae or feelers are the organs of smell, while it would 
seem as if they also were used in communicating with 
each other, and that their delicate touch helps the wax 
worker in his cell-building. 

The sting of a bee is composed of a sharp stiletto, 
which first pierces and then pours poison into the wound 
it makes, and is such a formidable weapon of defence 
that we are careful to leave them undisturbed at their 
labours. When a bee is dissected, it is found to have 
two quite separate stomachs. The first is used as a 
honey-bag, in which the nectar of flowers is collected, 
and where it undergoes the change which makes it honey 
when it is disgorged on returning to the hive. The 
second stomach is that in which the honey is changed 
still more and becomes wax. It is like a cask with 
hoops on the inside, and has openings through which the 
wax oozes, in the form of tiny scales, which lie under the 
overlapping plates that cover the stomach outside like 
tiles. These little cases in which the wax is found are 
sometimes called wax pocket *, 


   


 . 


When bees are making their combs they begin at the 
top and work downwards, and the different combs in a 
hive are built side by side, about half-an-inch apart, so 
that the workers can easily get at each side of them, and 
pass each other when at work in crowds. The combs are 
about two inches in thickness, just what the length of 
two cells placed end to end makes them. The French 
call them gateaux de miel, or cakes of honey, and 
such as come out of our round hives are not unlike thick 
cakes rounded at the edge; but when bees have their 
nests in the hollow trunks of large trees, they will some 
times go on increasing the size of a comb until it is a 
yard or more in length. In those combs which are in 
tended for the broods, there are a few cells in each hive 
made much larger than the rest, and of an oblong shape, 
with the hollow within something like the inside of a 
small thimble ; and these are prepared for the female 
bees, one of which is intended to be a future queen 
such cells, so different from the ordinary six-sided cells, 
being placed quite apart at the edge of the comb.* When 
an egg is hatched which has been laid in one of these royal 


* The cell intended for a royal cell is formed like an inverted 
acorn cup (as on right side of the annexed cut), when the queen bee 
deposits a single egg in it, which adheres to the end. The workers 
then enlarge the cell by adding more and more wax to it, until it 
becomes the size and shape of the cells represented on the left side 
of cut. When the grub is hatched from the egg it lies along the cell 
head downwards, ready to be fed, and only when about to change 
to a chrysalis is the cell closed at the bottom. In the upper cell is 
shown where the perfect queen bee has made her escape. 


 . 


   


cells, the little grub has the greatest care and attention 
bestowed upon it. It is fe'd w r ith a sort of rich pap 
made of pollen and honey, and has a greater amount of 
food given to it than the rest, so that it becomes in time 
the large and slender-shaped bee which is fitted to 
become the queen-mother to a future race of bees. 



Portion of Comb, shewing ordinary cells, closed and 
open, and Royal or Queens cells. 


When it happens that a young queen has come to 
perfection, the old queen would seem to consider it 
time to establish a new community; and suddenly, 
some warm day in autumn, she leaves the nest, and, 
surrounded by crowds of drones and workers, rises up 
into the air, and after whirling about for some time, 
they all settle at last on some bough of a tree not far off 
























    


TEE DWELLERS IN OUR GARDENS. 


from the old hive, and seem to deliberate what next to 
do. We scarcely know what course would be taken by 
the party of emigrants, if left to themselves; for directly 
it is found that the bees of a hive are leaving itor 
beginning to swarm, as it is calleda new hive is 
brought out, and the cluster of bees is swept into it, 
taking care that the queen does not escape, and before 
many hours are over the new community is found to be 
building up wax combs within, and going abroad to 
collect honey, and pollen, and bee-glue, and living the 
usual life of bees, and working at their usual works. 

Besides the hive or honey bees, we perhaps see many 
other species of bees in our gardens in the course of a 
summer, since there are as many as two hundred and fifty 
different kinds found in England; many of these are 
what are called solitary bees, and instead of living in 
communities like our hive bees, make themselves little 
caves or burrows in banks and underground, and collect 
only honey and pollen sufficient for their own food and 
that of their young. Some of them, after forming balls 
of a kind of paste made of honey and pollen, lay two 
or three eggs in it, so that when the grubs are hatched 
the next spring, long after the cold of winter has killed 
the parent bees, they have a supply of food around them 
upon which they feed until the time comes for changing 
into the chrysalis form, after which they become perfect 
bees. Another kind of solitary bee makes most curious 
nests or cells for its eggs, formed of oval pieces of rose- 
leaf which it cuts out with its proboscis with great pre- 


 . 


   



Leaf-cutting Bee. 

The bee we most often notice in our gardens, is, 
perhaps, the large handsome bee with the black and 
yellow velvet-like coat which we call the humble bee. 
On hot summer days we are sure to hear his loud sleepy 

H 


cision and carries to its subterranean home, and then 
sticks together, one little portion of leaf being bent 
round and laid upon another until a little thimble-shaped 
cell is formed. 



















  S 


 . 


hum as he hovers among our flowers, and can observe 
him tumbling as it were, into widely opened flowers, and 
such as have tubes and cups large enough to admit him, 
and we see how sure he is .to come out of them covered 
with white, red, or yellow pollen according to their kind 
which has clung to his back and legs. The humble bees 
live in small communities of at most two or three 
hundred, using as a nest some hollow in a bank or a 
burrow underground which has been made by some other 



Garden Humble Bee (Bombus Hortorum). 

creature. They only gather honey enough to serve for 
their food and for wax secreting, and fox mixing with 
pollen to make pap or bee-bread for the grubs. Many 
females live in their communities, so that they have not 
a queen bee to whom they pay such attention and 
deference as in hives. Their ways are also much less 
regular and methodical than hive bees, for they build no 
combs and their cells are neither packed closely together 
nor are they six-sided, but are round and oblong like 
little jars or pots, while cocoons and balls of bee-bread 
in which are the eggs, and jars of honey and pollen are 
found in their nests all piled together in seeming disorder. 


 . 


   


But though the humble bee stores up no honey which 
we human beings can appropriate, and do not appear to 
be as clever or careful as hive bees, yet it has been 
discovered by naturalists that this species of bee per 
forms unconsciously a very important office in carrying 
on their silken coats the fertilizing pollen which some 
flowers require to have brought to them before they can 
bear seed or fruit; and they have also remarked that such 
bees are in the habit of going to flowers of one kind only 
during each excursion from home, by which means the 
pollen of one flower is not carried to that of another kind. 

And now we must return again to our account of the 
honey or hive bee, not attempting, however, to tell all 
the particulars of their doings within the hive, which those 
who have observed and watched them very closely, have 
from time to time discovered. It is less difficult to find 
out some of their ways when abroad collecting honey 
and pollen and propolis. We find that they stay away 
from the hive about half an hour when in search of 
honey, and a little less than this time when collecting 
pollen, while they will occasionally make still longer 
journeys if such an inducement comes as a field of clover 
or of beans in blossom, which attracts them from afar by 
their sweet perfume; and they will also make longer flights 
to get at a stream of water, of which they are very fond, 
and perhaps use within the hive in kneading pollen and 
wax. As we watch them among the' flowers of our 
gardens, they seem very fanciful and capricious, as they 
flit about taking honey from one flower on a plant and 


H   


IOO 


 . 


leaving others untouched, collecting pollen from one 
flower-bell, and leaving others equally full of it for their 
fellow-labourers. Some flowers have evidently tubes too 
long for them to send their tongues down to the bottom, 
and some are too narrow for the entrance of their bodies ; 
these they are obliged to leave for the long proboscis of 
some butterfly or moth. Sometimes, as with the short 
narrow-tubed flowers of the jasmine, whose scent has 
attracted them, they contrive to get at the sweet juice by 
piercing a hole at the bottom of the tube. In the flowers 
of the snapdragon, though the lips of the corolla seem 
so firmly closed, bees will force themselves in, and get 
out of the little flower-trap again, which opens with a 
spring, and snaps to again after they have made their 
escape; and here the bee has it all to himself, as no moth 
or butterfly could perform the same exploits. In the 
flower of the honeysuckle, with its narrow tubes, we have 
wondered how the plant came to be so frequented by 
bees, and have found that the abundant nectar of each 
little floret runs down the style in the centre and hangs 
about the small knob or stigma at the end, so that it is 
easily licked off by the bee. 

The honey, or, rather, nectar of flowers (for it is 
not properly called honey until it has undergone a 
change in the stomach of the bee) is yielded in different 
quantities and is different in quality according to the 
season and the time of day. No time is so favourable 
for honey gathering as the early morning, when flowers 
are first opening out to the sun, and before the 


 . 


IOT 


nectar has been evaporated by its warmth. A story 
is told of some peasants of Bavaria, in a district of that 
country where hives were so generally kept and made a 
profit of, that a sort of rivalry was kept up as to the 
quantity of honey each bee-master could obtain from 
his hives. It was found year after year that one old man 
was constantly able to get more honey than any of his 
neighbours, although his bees had just the same flowery 
fields and hills to wander over as their own. What could 
be the cause of his success? Puzzled and jealous, the 
others at last accused him of witchcraft, and the old bee- 
master had to explain that the simple cause of the mystery 
was that he had taken care to place his hives in a south- 
easternly direction, so that his bees being awakened up 
by the warm rays of the sun as it rose, and sallying 
forth the earliest, got the freshest and sweetest and 
most abundant harvest of honey. 

Beekeepers in many countries are in the habit of 
moving their hives to fresh districts when the honey 
about them has been exhausted, or the season for 
some honey-bearing flowers is to be found elsewhere. 
A peasant will take his hive on his back to some 
heather-covered hill many miles off; and in Switzer 
land the inhabitants of the valleys will send their 
hives up to the care of the herdsmen who are watching 
their flocks on the mountain side. In Egypt, where 
along the valley of the Nile the season for particular 
flowers varies according as the districts where they grow 
are further to the south, the peasants will send their 


  0  


 . 


hives up the river, each numbered so as to be claimed 
again; and then a boat freighted with numbers of them 
will be allowed to float slowly down the stream, while 
the bees go forth to gather rich harvests on the banks, 
getting the perfumed honey from the orange blossoms of 
one district, from the sweet jasmine of another, and the 
roses of others, as they come into bloom. 

Other creatures besides men are fond of honey, espe 
cially bears, and in America the bee-hunters will make 
use of these animals to track the bees to the hollow trees 
in which are their nests. The bears sense of smell is quick 
in detecting where honey is stored within, and after 
rubbing their noses against the bark will begin to gnaw a 
hole in the trunk. Some other creatures will capture bees 
themselves for the sake of the honey in their stomachs. A 
toad, it is said, will sit under a stand of hives, ready to 
pounce on any stray bee which may alight near him, and 
tom-tits in some parts of England are called bee-biters, 
from their practice of tapping at the walls of hives with 
their beaks, which bringing out bees as if to inquire 
Who is there? they are snapped up. To prevent the 
entrance of a particular kind of moth very fond of honey, 
bees are said sometimes to make winding passages at the 
entrance of their hives of wax and propolis, only just 
wide enough to admit their own bodies. 

The stings of beestheir very formidable weapons of 
defencemake it not an easy matter to rob their 
hives each autumn of a portion of the honey made 
in the summer, each hive being like a little fortress 


 . 


  0  


full of thousands of well-armed soldiers, ready to 
resist any attempt to carry off the contents of the 
treasure chambers within it. In former days, it used 
to be the common custom to destroy the whole of 
the bees in a hive, and to capture all the combs, 
but a more humane method is now adopted of merely 
stupifying the bees for a time, and then leaving within 
the hive sufficient honeycomb to supply their wants 
during the winter. We do not scruple to help our 
selves to some of their honey, and consider that we have 
as good a claim to it, as to the milk of the cow, or the 
wool and flesh of the sheep. Before men discovered how 
to make sugar from the juice of a tropical cane, the 
honey of bees supplied to them a wantfor by nature we 
are made to desire sweet food; but now honey may be 
looked upon only as a luxury for which we are indebted 
to these little creatures, and the increase in our know 
ledge of their ways and works makes us more reluctant 
to destroy their lives unnecessarily. The natural life of 
a bee, too, is not a long one, and though a queen bee 
will sometimes be found to have lived as long as three 
years, becoming during that time the mother of perhaps 
a million of offspring, yet the laborious and clever 
working bee seldom lives longer than a year and a half 
at the most, while the male bees either die a natural 
death in the autumn or are not allowed to live through the 
winter to consume the stores to which they have never 
added, and are deliberately put to death by the stings of 
the workers. 


  0  


 . 


And during that short life of the working bee, how 
curiously varied are her labours and doings ! First a 
small grey grub, eating voraciously the loaves of bee- 
bread popped into her little cradle-cell by careful 
nurses. Then after growing very fast, beginning on a 
sudden to spin and weave, wrapping herself up in a close 



fitting garment of silk as if even the privacy of the waxen 
cells were not enough to conceal her while undergoing 
the mysterious transformation, during which the almost 
shapeless body is supplied with wings, legs, feelers, 
proboscis, tongue, and sting; a honey-making stomach, 
and another for secreting wax. And when as a perfect 
bee, she has come forth and become, first a diligent 
searcher after flower-nectar, and flower-meal, and tree- 
resinsafter bread-making and wax-secreting, and wax- 
kneading, she exercises at last the highest of her powers 
and becomes a skilful architect, executing on what are 





 . I0  

like very scientific principles, and with the greatest ac 
curacy and precision those works which may be said to 
have been the wonder of the whole world in all ages. 

And then when all is over and the short life of the 
busy worker-bee is ended, we may be sure that the little 
creature has had a pleasurable existence, and that the 
exercise of all her industry and skill has brought her 
a species of satisfactionthat her labours have been 
labours of love, and after all to her, Work has been only 
that which we call Happiness. 







































io  


 . 


  VI. 

OUR GARDEN CHORISTERS. 

MONG the boughs and branches 
of our garden trees, which serve 
them for singing galleries, our 
choristers begin their performances 
very early in each year; even 
before the buds have opened out 
and spread over them their canopies of green leaves, 
we find out some sunny morning, by the singing of 
birds, that spring must certainly have come. We 
even seem to recognise the very same set of choristers 
chirping their matins, and singing their madrigals, 
as performed on the very same boughs the year 
before; and if some new members have been added 
to the choir in the place of old favourites, we 
may be pretty sure that they are the offspring of 
choristers we have formerly heard, and have learned 
their different notes from their parents. The same 
warbling and whistling, interspersed with little chirps 
and twittersthe same trills, and quavers, and gurglings, 
and-pipings of each, according to its kind; in fact, we 
have heard the young birds practising these very notes 
soon after they were fledged in the former year, and 



 .   0  

know well how, after beginning with faint twitters and 
small peep-peeps, they managed at last to bring out 
the same notes as the parent birds, who had fed and 
tended them so carefully from the time they had come 
out of the egg. All the notes, no matter how they differ 
from each other according to the species of bird, seem 
to express but one feeling among them. All this gushing 
out of sweet sounds seems to say,  How happy we are ! 
How pleasant this sunshine is again! How we are all 
going to enjoy ourselves now winter is gone! One 
thing very certain is, that the singing of birds is not to 
give us pleasure alone, and by-and-by we shall find that 
it is not even to give vent only to the joy of living, and 
feeling the pleasant air and the warm sunshine, nor 
because they are satisfied to find that the soil is again 
soft and damp, so that worms and slugs may be expected, 
and that the buds begin to swell, promising future cater 
pillars and grubs, but because the male birds, who are the 
principal singers, have each a mate to choose for the 
coming season, and must make himself agreeable, and 
win the affections of that particular hen-bird of its kind 
with whom he has chanced to form an acquaintance. 

As that wren pours forth its delicate trilling, as if it 
would crack its little throat, we may find on a bough very 
near at hand a young Jenny wren sitting, listening at 
tentively with her head a little on one side. She thinks 
it no doubt a most charming song, and knows quite well 
that it is intended for her. She feels herself chosen as 
the mate of the singer, and is satisfied that her career in 


io  


 . 


that years life should be settled. And so with the young 
thrush who sits perched on a laburnum tree near our 
window, pouring forth all the lovely notes he learned 
from his parent the last summer. He means to have a 
mate and a nest of his own this season, and sings his 
very best to attract and please the young hen-thrush who 
is listening to his song on the neighbouring acacia tree. 
And thus with them all. They choose their mates all on 
a sudden, and never change their minds about the 
matter; and the female birds are generally very easy to 
be convinced that the male bird who has come after her 
and sang to her, and plumed his feathers before her, and 
shown off his little airs and graces in her sight, is the 
best and prettiest and most loveable wren, linnet, 
chaffinch, or thrush, as the case may be, in the whole 
garden; and henceforth they are a pair, and there 
becomes but one mind and purpose between them. 

Perhaps our more usual feeling with regard to birds, 
as we merely hear them, is that they are as careless and 
idle as they are happy; but this is to have a very wrong 
notion about them; and at all times amid the pouring 
out of their gladness in song, they are thinking of 
business, and during the greater part of the pleasant days 
of spring and early summer, the birds of our garden are 
as busy as their neighbours, the bees. Singing is all very 
well at the proper time, but when their mates are once 
chosen they have a great deal of important business 
before them, and no time to lose. They have to set 
about building a nest, ready for the eggs which the hen 


 . I Op 

will soon laya snug little nest, somewhere out of sight, 
just the right size and form for the number of eggs which 
will lie at the bottom, and for the mother-bird to sit 
comfortably upon them, so as to give them the warmth 
from her body that they will need for coming to per 
fectionand by coming to perfection we mean coming 
to be birds, instead of eggs. 

Let us only watch, as spring advances, the doings of 
birds, and we shall see many tokens of this nest-building 
going on. We shall observe birds with twigs and the 
fibres of plant-roots in their beaks, flitting hastily by. 
Others with long straws streaming after them, of which 
they have tight hold at one end. Others with tufts of 
hay and bits of rag. Others with little flakes of wool, 
which they have found on the brambles of a neighbouring 
common, left by the sheep the year before. Others with 
long hairs from the tails of horses and cows, and others 
with bits of cobwebin fact, all sorts of materials are 
turned to account in the nests built by different species 
of birds. The whole time and thought, as it were, of 
the busy creatures are engrossed in their task, and every 
flight is engaged in the search for something which can 
be made use of in nest-building; and if they cannot find 
at hand what they want, they will go to considerable 
distances sometimes in search of them, or in some cases 
use substitutes when the nest is wanted in a hurry; though 
each nest is sure under any circumstances to have some 
thing betokening the kind of bird who was its architect, 
A soft pad of wool or hay, old feathers or tufts of down 


no 


 . 


felted together, forms often the foundation of the nests of 
small birds, and then the root fibres, twigs, straw, and 
hay are woven round and round, and twisted in and out, 
and bent and tucked in and plaited together, till all is 
snug and warm and compact, just of the form and size 
to best suit the body of the mother-bird. Some of our 
small birds use a great deal of moss in the construction 
of their nests, such as the chaffinch, who also adorns his 
with little scraps of grey and yellow lichen from the bark 
of the very old apple tree in which he builds it, so that 
it is scarcely distinguishable from the branches. Nothing 
indeed can be more carefully and artfully chosen than 
the nooks in which most of them are placed, whether 
they be hid among the ivy on a wall or in the centre of 
a bushy evergreen, or placed so high up among the 
branches of a tree as to be beyond reach, and concealed 
from sight from below by the foliage. Shelter from wind 
and rain seems one object, and the other concealment 
from prying eyes. Even when we can see that a nest 
has been built in the centre of a hedge, we should 
almost be obliged to pull the hedge to pieces to get at 
it, yet the proprietors have a secret passage of their own 
among the twigs, and find their way in and out to it, 
with the greatest ease. With the swallows, who build 
under the eaves of our house, there is but one kind of 
material needed, since their nests are built up with little . 
beak-fulls of wet clay, the birds travelling backwards and 
forwards with unwearying industry and perseverance to 
the banks of a pond a long flight off to get it. 


 . 


Ill 


Nest-building is a sort of joint concern between the pair 
who are going to set up house-keepingor, rather, who 
aim at securing the safety and comfort of their future family, 
since the nest is rather a family cradle than a dwelling. 
They choose together the situation where it shall be 
placed, and as the male bird goes on an exploring ex 
pedition, the female may be seen flying after him from 
bush to bush and tree to tree, the male uttering little 
chirps by way of signals to induce her to follow him. 
When the best possible situation is found the building 
commences, the female bird in most instances staying at 
home to weave the materials together, and the male 
going forth to collect them. Nothing can be more 
wonderful, when we come to think of it, than the fact 
that when young and inexperienced birds of any species 
begin to build a nest for their future family, they set 
about it in exactly the same way as their parents did 
before they came into lifeeach bird of each kind from 
generation to generation making its nest in exactly the 
same way as its ancestor-birds have done. It may seem 
possible that they have some kind of remembrance of 
the snug little home in which each of them first saw 
lightwhere they first pecked themselves out of the 
egg, and where they had such delicious caterpillars, 
grubs, and flies brought to them by their parents, but 
they can have no remembrance of nest-building, and of 
how to first set about it, and what materials to use, and 
where to build. Each bird builds its nest from the same 
kind of instinct, the same skill that needs no teaching, as 


XI  


 . 


all animals are supplied with, for adapting their lives to 
their nature and wants, while human beings have to learn 
the arts they practise. A poet has so well described this 
natural cleverness on the part of birds, that the lines 
deserve to be given in every book which tells of nest 
building : 

Mark it well, within, without ; 

No tool had he to fix, no glue to join, 

No bodkin to insert; his little beak was all ; 

And yet how neatly finished ! 

What nice hand, with all the means and implements of art, 
And twenty years apprenticeship to boot, 

Could fashion such another ?  



Nest of Missel Thrush. 


By the time the nest is completed, the hen is quite 
ready to lay her eggs in itthree, four, five, six, seven, 
or even with some birds as many as ten or fifteen 
whitish, blueish, greenish, speckled, or spotted, as 'the 
case may be, and all are laid pretty nearly at the same 
time, since all are hatched nearly together ; and once 



 .       

having settled herself upon them, pressing her soft warm 
breast above them, she never leaves the nest. All the 
food she gets is brought to her by her attentive mate. 
What he likes best himself he brings to her, whether it 
be last years seeds or berries, or fresh young worms and 
slugs, or caterpillars picked off leaves, or flies caught on 
the wing. And when after sitting day after day for 
perhaps a couple of weeks, she at last feels or hears the 
first attempts made by a young bird to escape from its 
egg, she helps him to free himself from the shell, and then 
one after another making these attempts, and extricating 
themselves from the eggs, the remains of egg-shell are 
thrown out of the nest, and the young family of soft 
yellow or pale brown little fledglings are ready to be fed. 
They soon make their wants known by the open beaks 
which gape for food, and by the small piping cry from 
their little throats which asks for it as plainly as birds can 
speak. 

Then comes more business for the tender and 
faithful parents, both male and female, whose whole 
concern is now to provide for the helpless little ones. 
Backwards and forwards they may be seen flying with 
the provender which will best suit the tastes and serve as 
nourishment for them. Even the sparrows, which we are 
accustomed to look upon as the most frivolous and 
aimless of birds, are most careful and indefatigable 
providers of food for their young, and have been found 
to feed them as often as thirty-six times in the course of 
an hour. Chaffinches and goldfinches are equally per- 


   


  J   


 . 


severing in flying to and fro in their search for the 
dainty caterpillars and worms, which they bring to their 
young in their snug little oblong nests in the forks of our 



apple-trees. The thrushes begin in the very earliest 
dawnwhen we should perhaps still call it nightto 
seek food for their young, and go on feeding them until 
the sun is high in the heavens, and have been found 
by those who have carefully counted their journeys back 
wards and forwards to have fed their young as often as 
two hundred and sixteen times in seven hours. The 
blackbird does not get up quite so early in the morning, 
and yet with its mate will collect an immense number of 
worms and slugs for their young; and among the birds that 
frequent our gardens none are more tender and devoted 
parents in the care of their young fledglings (which are 
scarcely larger than humming birds), than the race of 
titmice, who are found to take small grubs and flies to 


 .       

their nests as often as four hundred and seventy-five 
times in the course of a day. Such birds as those who 
require food for their young which can be obtained in 
great abundance, are often able to hatch and rear two or 
three broods in the year, so that their time is fully 
employed during the whole spring and summer with their 
family duties. 

And all such birds have most cunning ways of 
getting at food for themselves and their young, which 
their sight is most acute in detecting. Their eyes 
have, in fact, the power both of telescopes and micro 
scopes, for they see at great distances, and can perceive 
very small objects. From on high, when flying, they will 
see the worm which has ventured to come above ground, 
and they can also detect upon buds and leaves the very 



small eggs of insects, and minute flies and beetles, which 
we could only see with a magnifying glass. The same 
bird that can distinguish such small objects near to it, 
can see distant objects twenty times further off than men 
and dogs can perceive them. Even in the most rapid 
flights, birds will detect beneath them the objects they are 
in search of for food, and dart upon them with such cer 
tainty and precision that they never fail to capture them. 


     


Il   . 

Although birds are so different in their outward forms 
to quadrupeds, fishes, and reptiles, yet when all the 
animals on the face of the earth are divided into a few 
large divisions (sorted, as it were, into a few sorts), 
according to their internal structure, birds are found to 
be like them in what causes them all to be called ver- 
tebrated animals, which means that they have all spines 
or back-bones, made up of a number of other small 
bones fitting into each other very closely, and making 
one long, strong, and more or less flexible bone, with 
which all the other bones of their bodies are connected. 
The rest of the structure of such animals is more com 
plicated and perfect, and makes their life a higher kind 
of life than that of other animals; and it is because our 
own bodies are formed in so many respects on the same 
plan, that we feel as if we were somehow more nearly 
related to birds than to the other dwellers in our garden 
which we have already described. We have seen how 
bees and ants have some powers and clever ways, which 
have a sort of likeness to the powers and ways of human 
beings, but we know that the forms of their bodies in no 
respect resemble ours. It is not however because birds 
have two eyes, two legs, and that they utter sounds from 
their throats, that they choose their mates, build nests, 
and feed their young, that they are like human beings, 
and that is found this sort of relationship, but because 
in all the bony structures of their bodies, which other 
wise in outward form are so different, there is a great 
resemblance to that of ours, and because many internal 


 . 


      


parts or organs, such as the brain, the heart, the lungs, 
the liver, etc., are like ours. The circulation of warm 
red blood through the arteries and veins of birds is also 
like that of our bodies, as well as the manner in which 
air is taken in by the lungs and changes the nature of the 
blood. 

But birds differ from us so very greatly in one of 
their powers that we are sometimes inclined almost to 
envy themfor what would we not give to be able to 
fly ?and when we ask ourselves how and why a bird is 
able to fly, we find that it is in all that gives them the 
power of flying, that their bodies are quite unlike ours. 
The forms of their bones, their number and situation, 
such as their spines, skulls, breast bones, ribs, the bones 
of their legs, and each of their wings are a good deal 
like our own, but the .structure of the bones themselves 
is quite different. The bones of human beings and of 
quadrupeds are mostly solid, or have the hollow space 
within them filled up with marrow ; but the bones of birds 
are hollow, and have only air within them, and this 
hollowness, while it makes them much lighter, rend'ers 
them strong in proportion to the quantity of bony matter 
of which they are composed. Besides these hollow 
bones, the whole body of a bird has many cavities and 
passages, which can be filled as well as their bones with 
air from their lungs, and we know how all the longest 
feathers in their wings and tails have hollow parts which 
we call the quills, just where they are inserted into the 
body, and into these quill-feathers air from its lungs can 


IlS  . 

also pass. A birds body is thus like a small balloon, 
divided into many compartments, but in order that 
balloons may be buoyant, or ready to rise and float 
in the air, the air inside them must be lighter than the 
surrounding air, or they must be filled with some gas 
which is lighter than common air. Now, as water can 
become exceedingly light, orwhich is the same thing 
turned into steam by heat, so can air be made much 
more rare (or thin) and light by being heated. A fire- 
balloon rises because the air inside it is heated, and so 
made lighter than the surrounding air, and it is found 
that the air within a birds body is heated by the quick 
circulation of its blood, which is kept up by its active 
habits. A bird is almost always in motion, except when 
roosting; a large bird taking long flights, and little birds, 
such as we have in our gardens, constantly taking short 
flights, hopping about here and there, and flitting from 
bough to bough and tree to tree. The quantity of food 
which even such small birds consume is also another 
means by which the heat of their bodies is kept up. It 
has been found by experiments that they eat as much or 
more of their kind of food in a day than a man can eat 
of meat in the same time, and while in flight great 
quantities of air must be constantly supplied to their 
lungs. All this exercise and food and air helps to make 
the blood of the bird circulate very rapidly, and renders 
the air in its bones and the other air-cells of its body 
very warm and very light, while its clothing of feathers 
and down prevents the heat being given out to the 
surrounding cold air. 


 . XI  

We cannot examine closely the mechanism of a birds 
wing without finding out how wonderfully it is adapted 
for its purpose. We see how accurately and smoothly 
its delicate feathers are lapped one upon another as the 
wing is closed against the side of the body, and how 
easily they are spread out, like the unfurling of a fan, so 
as to beat against the elastic air, which springing back 
again impels the bird upward and onward in its flight. 
But for wings to be turned to account, and used so con 
stantly, the muscles and tendons which connect them 
with the body, and give them motion at the will of the 
bird, are needed to be much stronger in proportion to its 
size than those of a mans arm, whose bony structure it 
greatly resembles. Men have sometimes fancied they 
might be able to fly by means of wings attached to their 
arms, but have found that their muscles were not strong 
enough for the flapping of wings, even if their bodies 
could be made buoyant enough. The muscles and 
tendons also in the legs of birds are very strong in pro 
portion to their size, and are needed to help them to first 
spring into the air before the wings are expanded, so as 
to present a sufficiently large surface for the air to buoy 
them up. The whole form of a birds body is in fact 
such as to assist them in flight. The sharp beak cutting 
the air easily, and acting like the prow of a ship. The 
tail serving as a rudder to steer their course, and the 
wings answering the purpose both of sails and oars. All 
these peculiarities in the bird (and perhaps there are 
others which we do not understand) give the bird its 


   0 


. . 


power of rising into the air, soaring to great heights, and 
flying great distances, without any effort or difficulty. 



The power of birds to sustain themselves in the air, 
and perform long journeys without resting, proves the 
great muscular strength which they possess, and these 
long flights are very remarkable in those birds which 
migrate, and which according as seasons change from 
cold to hot or from hot to cold change their places of 
abode, and fly north or south to other countries, where 
the climate is such as will suit their natures. Some birds 
come to England only during our winter, and cannot 
bear the warmth of our summers, and others come to us 
only for the summer, and leave us when our winter 
approaches. It is these latter who whilst with us lay 
their eggs and rear their young, so that they seem to 
belong to us, but they have so strong an instinct, im 
pelling them to avoid our cold winters, that they have no 
sooner brought up their young than they prepare to leave 
us. The cuckoo does not even stay to hatch or rear her 


 . 


    I 


young, but dropping her eggs into the nests of other 
birds, leaves them to feed her offspring with their own 
a practice which, however we may admire her curious 
note, and like to hear it as a token of coming summer, 
makes us rather despise her. The migratory bird whom 
we perhaps know most about is the swallow, who does 
not so much dwell in our garden, as he makes our 
dwelling his, by building underneath the eaves of our 
houses his little clay nest. He requires for it just the 
shelter which our roof or some jutting-out ledge affords 
him, and there builds it up of clay or mud, fetched bit 
by bit from the sides of some neighbouring pond, occa 
sionally mixing up with it a little grass or straw, to make 
the clay hold together, as a mason mixes a little horse 
hair in his plaster. When the little earthen cradle is 
formed, the swallow lines it carefully with feathers or 
down, to make it a comfortable bed for the future young, 
and then the female swallow lays her eggs in it, an 
opening having been left at the top large enough to creep 
in and out. When hatched, there is no bird who tends 
and feeds its young more assiduously than the swallow, 
and we see him and his mate the whole day long flying 
backwards and forwards with food for them, the heads of 
the little fledglings popping up at the opening of the 
little clay basket, ready to receive it. When old enough 
to leave the nest, and yet not equal to long flights, we 
may notice them sitting in a row on a tree-branch near 
at hand, waiting to be fed by their parents in turn, and 
when full-grown and strong on the wing, the parent 


     


 . 


birds, having done their duty by them, leave them to 
cater for themselves, and know them no longer. After 
perhaps rearing two broods during the summer months, 
and by the time that autumn has brought cold nights oi 
some early morning frosts, an irresistible impulse fills the 
whole being of the swallows, urging them to seek a warm 
climate and a brighter sky, and all their swallow-friends 
and neighbours have the same impulse within them. 
They appear to understand each other, and to appoint 
a place of meeting, and after collecting together in a 
large flock from every quarter, some fine day about the 
middle of October, they are seen to whirl round and 
round for a while high up in the air, as if to make sure 
of their route, and then start off southwards on their 
air-voyage, flying over land and seaour channelthe 
continent of Francethe Mediterraneanto descend at 
last somewhere we may conclude, among the palm and 
date trees beneath the sunny sky of Africa, there to 
enjoy themselves during the frosts and snow of our 
winter. More than a thousand miles must the swallows 
fly before arriving at the climate they desire to reach, but 
they are found to take a rest sometimes on their way, 
settling for a night on an island of the Mediterranean it 
may be, or crowding the rigging and decks of a vessel 
at sea, or even sometimes allowing themselves to drop 
on to the surface of the sea with their wings expanded, 
so that they are borne up for a while and gain a short 
rest from flight. The instinct to fly away to a warmer 
climate is sometimes so strong in a swallow, that if any*- 


 . 


     


thing has prevented it from completing the rearing of its 
second brood of young before the time when the mi 
gration of its neighbours begins, it will leave them to 
their fate, and join the party of emigrants who are about 
to start on their air-voyage to the south. 

Just when the swallow leaves us, a beautiful little bird 
called the siskin comes to England, to spend the winter, 



Siskin. 


from the north of Europe. He has been born among 
the firs and pines of Norway or Sweden, where his food 
is the seeds of their cones, so that he is mostly to be 
found during his stay with us in plantations and woods 
where these trees grow; but he comes also to our 
gardens when we have larches or other cone-bearing trees* 




     


 . 


where he is as active and agile as the titmouse in search 
ing out his favourite food among their branches. When 
spring returns he flies off home again, to make his nest 
and rear his young in the far north. 

Starlings are also another race of birds who make our 
dwelling theirs for a part of the year, and who then leave 
us after they have reared their young. Up in one of our 
unused chimneys, or behind a parapet, or in some roof- 
gutter, they make their spacious nests of sticks and straw 
and moss, and there rear their family. They are a noisy, 
bustling, fussy set of birds, making all manner of odd 
squeaks and pipings, and seeming always to be scrambling 
and shuffling about, as we overhear their doings from 
some room beneath the roof. One can scarcely fancy 
them to be the same birds when we see them handsome 
and spruce walking about our lawns, with their long glossy 
brown backs and mottled breasts, picking up worms and 
slugs. The young starlings and their parents seem to 
keep together and live as one family longer than most 
other birds, even after the former are well able to pro 
vide for themselves; and then, as autumn cold sets in, 
they suddenly take their departure, joining some convoy 
of starlings about to seek a pleasanter climate than ours; 
and we are not sorry to lose them, though the chances 
are that the same starlings will return again to our roof 
in the following spring. 

Most of the small birds which are dwellers in our 

i 

gardens are called perchers, from their being accustomed 
to perch and roost on the branches of trees, and for this 


 . 


habit of life their feet are well adapted, the toes and 
claws readily clinging to a branch. Three of the toes 
are placed in front and one behind, while the tendons of 
the leg which pass into each toe are tightened by the 
weight of the birds body as it roosts, so that even when 
asleep it is clinging safely to the boughs. Just a little 
difference is to be seen in the feet of such perchers as 
walk instead of hopping, the foot being spread out 



   



   Foot of Wagtail, which walks. 
Foot of Hedge Sparrow, which hops. 


flatter, while birds which climb like the woodpecker have 
two toes before and two behind, which enables it to cling 
with its body quite upright as it searches the bark on 
the trunks of trees for insects or their eggs, or wood 
boring worms. The feet and claws of each bird are as 
suited to their mode of life as their beaks and bills, and 
vary greatly among the many varieties of birds. Even in 
the bills of such as visit or live in our gardens a differ- 




     


 . 


ence is found between those who feed wholly on seeds 
and berries, those who feed on worms and snails, and 
those who live only on insects. 



x Head of Chaffinch, a seed-eatmg bird. 

  Head of Missel Thrush, who lives on worms, slugs, and 
snails, and also on berries and fleshy fruit, such as cherries. 

  Head of Flycatcher, who lives only on flies and- other 
insects on the wing. 


These little birds with their short necks, sharp-pointed 
bills, and feet fitted for clinging to the boughs of trees, 
form a great contrast to the duck, with its strong broad 

bill, used half as spoon and half as 
spade, as it searches for food in the 
mud of its pond, and paddles itself 
about with its web feet; and still 
more unlike them is the stately 
swan, with its long flexible neck, 
which it can send down deep into the water without 



*mr 

Foot of Swan. 




 . T j 

moving the rest of its body, while its feet are also 
suited for swimming by the webs of skin between the 
toes, which render them like broad cars. 



Besides the pleasure afforded us by the notes and songs 
of birds, they are constantly supplying us with a source 
of interest as we watch their ways and doings. Even 
the sparrows that we see from our windows the whole 
year round are very amusing with their eager restlessness, 
and often rouse our attention with their squabbles among 
themselves for the possession of a bit of material for 
nest-building, or a scrap of food. They seem to have 
so strong a sense of the rights of property, when the 
property happens to be their own ! We may notice a 
sparrow in the act of carrying off a feather towards the 
lining of his nest, pursued angrily by another sparrow, 
to whom it had perhaps originally belonged, and a fight 
in the air ensuing, the feather is dropped. As it floats 
down t it is perhaps captured by a third sparrow, who 
























     


 . 


carries it off in triumph. How odd, too, are the sly 
glances of a sparrow from side to side who has stolen a 
bit of cold potatoe, or sopped bread intended for the 
poultry, and which is too soft perhaps to carry off, and 
may have another claimant before he has time to 
eat it. 

The house-sparrow builds a rather untidy nest, more 
curious for the variety of materials of which it is com 
posed than for skill of workmanship. He benefits by 
his nearness to us in borrowing from us all manner of 
scraps that fall out of window, or escape from the 
sweepings of a housebits of rag and muslin, and even 
ribbon and lace, are all turned to account, and woven in 
among the straw and twigs. 

  Little thinks my lady fair, 

As she goes by with mincing air, 

How the pert sparrow overhead 

Has robbed her gown to make his bed. * 

The robin is, perhaps, our next most familiar friend 
and bird-neighbour, and though he sings all the year 
round, we most value his delicate little warble when 
other birds are silent. He seems to know that at last he 
will be listened to, as late in autumn he perches on some 
window ledge or balcony and gives us a succession of 
shrill yet perfectly sweet trills and quavers, showing off 
the utmost compass of his voice, and we like to see 

* Mary Howittwhose charming poems about the lives and ways 
of birds help us to know, as well as to love them. 


 . 


     


the full black eye and enquiring side-long turn of 
the head as he listens himself to any sound as if trying 
to understand it. He is not afraid of us, and will eat 
any food we like to give him in winter, while in summer 
he lives on earth-worms, fruit and berries, and is quite 
independent of us. Many instances are known of robins 
coming inside a house, or outhouse to build, and they 
and their mates are so faithful to each other that it seems 
as if they paired for life. A pretty story has been told 
us of a fall of snow coming so late in spring that the 
snow lay heavy on the ivy-leaves against a wall, among 
which a robin family had their nest. The snow melted 
and then froze again so as to form a veil of ice before 
the nest in which the mother and her young ones were 
crowded, while the father bird roosted at a little dis 
tance. When morning comes, what is the dismay of 
the latter, when wanting to give his family their break 
fast, he finds that a hard and glossy barrier prevents his 
getting to them! He tries with all his might to hammer 
an opening through it, but in vain; and then flying off, he 
fetches back another strong robin friend, and the beaks 
of both succeed at last in making an aperture, so that the 
hungry little ones can be fed. 

The wren also ventures near our houses and is almost 
as familiar as the robin, and sings too the whole year 
through, and on winter nights is glad to come and get 
the shelter of our roof, as he roosts in company with a 
party of other wrens, to keep each other warm. They 
begin to build very early in the spring, and make their 

K 


   0 


 . 


nests in some hedge or evergreen tree for the sake of the 
shelter of its foliage. The nest is oval and rounded over 
at the top, with a small opening at the side through 
which the hen-bird can creep in and out, and soon as 
many as nine or ten small pinkish white eggs are laid in 
it, on which the hen sits patiently for about ten days, 
while her mate brings her food. When the little ones 
are hatched both parents feed them assiduously, taking 
care that each small fledgling gets its share. The egg of 
the golden-crested wren, our smallest English bird, seems 
indeed a tiny object compared with that of the blackbird, 
which is the largest of the birds who build in our gardens. 



Egg of Blackbird. Egg of Golden-crested 

Wren. 

Of all our garden birds, perhaps the tit-mice are the 
prettiest race, from their delicate forms and graceful agile 
movements, and they are interesting in all their ways. 
The blue tit is not at all particular where he builds his 
nest, and if he cannot find a convenient nook among the 
branches of an apple or other fruit tree, will build it in a 
hole in a garden wall, and has even been known to make 
one in a garden pot, or the spout of a pump. The hen 
lays from ten to twelve eggs, and lor the little ones 


 . I I 

when hatched the parents have to supply as many 
as six or seven hundred caterpillars in a day. Early 
in spring it is curious to watch the tit-mice as they are 
busy among the buds and leaves of trees where insects 
eggs and small caterpillars are to be found, and we may 
notice how, after beginning at the lowest boughs and* 
travelling gradually upwards, a tit-mouse will make a 
thorough survey of a larch tree, examining every  green 
tassel just put forth, now pecking at those above the 
bough, and now clinging with its body downwards as it 
clears those beneath it; and then with the agility and 
security of a slack-rope dancer, suddenly dropping to the 
end of a delicate twig, swings backwards and forwards, 
still pecking at each tiny bud as it clings. 

The long-tailed tit-mouse is a lovely little bird, and 



Long-tailed Tit. 


he makes a most exquisitely formed nest. It is so like 
the shape of a flask that in some parts of England it is 


k   


T   


 . 


called the bottle tit. The outside is covered with lichen, 
the silvery side of which is carefully placed outwards so 
as to give it an ornamental finish. Inside it has a soft- 
lining of cobweb and innumerable small feathers for the 
eggs to lie on, and when the young birds are hatched 
they may be found by any one cruel enough to disturb 
the curious nest, all huddled together at the bottom like 
a ball of down. As they glow older they contrive to 
climb up to the opening of the nest at the top, and their 
little heads can be seen all in a bunch with the yellow 
beaks gaping for food. When older still, a family of tits 
will sit in a row on a branch outside the nest like child 
ren on a bench at school, waiting to be fed in turn. 
There seems to be a great attachment between these 
tit brothers and sisters, since they will keep together all 
through an autumn as one family, before each begins 
to shift for itself. We cannot perhaps talk of the singing 
of titmice, for theirs is but a lively note, as is the case 
with many other birds, but it serves as a sort of 
accompaniment to the songs of those who have more 
musical powers. Put into letters, the note of the tit is 
 chica-chica-chee-chee-chirr-r-rand as the mother bird 
sits at the bottom of the nest on her eggs, all in the 
dark, we cannot but fancy that her mate must now and 
then peep in at the top, and make this note of his express 
somehow an enquiry as to  how she is going on, and 
whether there are any signs of young ones coming out 
of the eggs. 

Some of our garden birds seem to have an odd fancy 


 . 


for pecking at blossoms and flowers and destroying them 
as if in mere wantonness. We jnust either imagine that 
they have pleasure in the mere picking of flowers, like 
very young children who gather buttercups and daisies, 
and the next moment let them fall again, or believe that 
birds have learned from bees to get at the sweet juices 
of flowers. We too often find a border of gay crocuses 
in spring cropped off by sparrows, while chaffinches will 
peck off the blossoms of a plum or cherry tree, till the 
ground is white with the torn petals. 

In their search after food birds often seem to think 
about how best to capture their prey. A sparrow may 
be seen beating a bush with its wings to shake down 
the caterpillars from its leaves, and then will hop down 
to pick them up. Thrushes, who require larger game, 
and more solid food from the size of their bodies, will 
often find snails so shut up in their shells, that they 
cannot get at them, and overcome the difficulty by 
knocking the shells against a large stone, until a 
hole is made large enough to get at the soft body 
within. Other birds, as the woodpecker, are able to 
tell by knocking with their bills against the bark of 
trees, whether wood-boring grubs are within; and the 
little bird called the creeper runs up and down the 
trunks of larches and fir-trees like a mouse, in search 
of eggs and insects in the bark. 

And all these birds do good rather than harm to us. 
There is no saying how we might not be over-run with 
caterpillars, grubs, slugs, and worms eating up our fruit 


     


 . 


and vegetables, nor how the air might' be swarming be 
fore summer is over with flies, gnats, and other insects 
on the wing, were it not for our small birds, who make 
them their food, or feed their youug with them. Even 
the seeds of wild plants, if they were not the food of 
many of our small birds, would cause the farmer great 
trouble if they were left to fall on the land and germinate. 
He might for instance have his fields quite over-run with 
thistles, were it not for birds who eat their downy seed, 
such as the goldfinch, who, while such an ornament to 
our gardens, likes nothing he can find there sd well as. 
the seed of the road-side thistle. 



In some parts of the world where we have colonies, 
the want of small birds is so much felt, that many 
attempts have been made to send out different kinds 
from England in large quantities, in order that when set 
free they may increase and multiply, and their descendants 
spread over the country to consume the worms and 























 . 


X    


caterpillars. To the settlers in such colonies the sight of 
an English sparrow, robin, or thrush, is a great source 
of delight, reminding them of their native land. 

It cannot however be denied that there are some of 
our garden birds, who when the sun has ripened the 
fruit on our trees, are too fond of helping themselves to 
it. We find our juicy pears pecked away to the core, 
and our purple plums laid bare to the stone, while 
bunches of well picked stones are found hanging where 
cherries should be ; but these latter we ought perhaps to 
consider as the property of our blackbirds, and to have 
been well earned by the part they take in our garden 
choir. They keep a close watch on our cherry trees 
from the time that they first come into blossom, and 
seem to know as well as any botanist how blossoms 
are needed for the production of fruit. How com 
placently they warble when the white petals having 
fallen off, green cherries are to be seen in their place. 
How closely they watch as the sun shines hotter and 
hotter, and the cherries swell and become fleshy, and 
white, and flushed with pink, and then redden and 
ripen. Just as we decide that it is time to gather our 
cherries we find they are gone,for have not the 
blackbirds found out like ourselves that they were ripe, 
and are they not their own property? We resign 
ourselves to our loss, as we remember the pleasure which 
the rich and mellow notes of these choristers have given 
us, whose song contrasts so well with the more varied 
and florid notes of the thrush. 


     


 . 


A naturalist who has studied for many years the va 
rious sounds produced by birds, tells us that he considers 
the mere chirping and twittering of birds to bear the 
same relation to their songs, as our talking does to our 
singing. He has observed, as indeed we all may do, that 
birds never actually sing when they are busy and have 
work in hand, whether it be nest building, feeding their 
young, or searching for their own food. At times their 
lively chirps and twitters seem as if they were talking to 
themselves or their neighbours about their doings and 
intentions, and it all sounds as if they were thoroughly 
in earnest and most deeply interested in what they are 
about, and eager to get it done. Only when at leisure 
after work is over do they really sing, and then it 
appears to be purely for their own and their mates 
satisfaction and pleasure, and as if the production of 
sweet sounds pleased them just as it pleases human 
musicians to produce them. They generally perch on a 
branch near the outside of a tree or bush, so as to let 
the sounds go forth into the air un-hindered by the 
foliage, while they seem to enjoy bringing out all the tones 
they know, and once having begun will go on singing till 
disturbed by some movement or unusual sound. Perhaps 
the charm to us in the songs of birds, is that they 
appear to express only happiness and contentment, 
while the noises made by other animals sound as if 
the expression of wants or dissatisfaction, such as the 
bleating of lambs, the lowing of cows, the mewing of 
cats, and the barking of dogs. 


 .      

 

Thrushes and blackbirds, wrens, robins, black-throats, 
and linnets are the choristers whose performances in our 
gardens are such a pleasure to us for a large portion of 
the year, and seldom all fail us; but if our gardens are 
far enough from towns, and in situations away from the 
noises of the high roads and the voices and tread of 
passengers, we may reckon on having in early summer 
the delight of hearing the song of the nightingale, whom 
we may consider to be our chief chorister. This little, 



Our Chief Chorister. 


homely-looking, pale brown bird, has almost a world 
wide reputation, since it is not only to be found in many 
warm and temperate climates, but has had its notes 
described and praised by the poets of all countries. It 
scarcely needs a description, however, to let us know 
when we are listening to the far-famed nightingale, so 
distinct and superior are its notes to those of any other 
bird. In some shrubbery in a garden, or some thicket 
near at hand, it may have built very close to the ground 
a nest for its young, where no eye but its own can see it, 




      . 

 

and to which there is a cunning little passage among the 
tangled twigs and crowded leaves, the secret of which is 
known only to himself and his mate. Not far off, 
perched on some tall shrub or the lowest branches of a 
tree, when his family duties are over for the day, in the 
quiet of evening, but more often after other birds have 
gone to roost for the night, he will pour himself out in song. 
All manner of notes and varied trills will gush forth from 
his little throat. It is as if each passage of his song 
were composed at the moment, just as his fancy pleases 
him; but no ! for the whole makes up what we have 
heard before, and is peculiar to every bird of his kind; 
and as the singer pours out the lovely strains, it tells us 
not only of his gladness and satisfaction in living, but 
seems to our fancy, as it rises up sweet and almost 
solemn into the still night air, as if it were a hymn of 
praise and thanksgiving for all the joys of his little life. 

We conclude our history of some of the birds which 
frequent our gardens and delight us with their notes and 
songs, leaving much which is still to be told of their lives 
and natures; but we shall be satisfied if our   
shall succeed in making its young readers feel how they 
will in future like to observe and discover for themselves 
more about them; and this they can easily do. For, 
far better than any written histories of birds is that 
which we all can observe for ourselves of the lives 
and ways of those who inhabit and frequent even 
small gardens; and still better will it be should such 
observations lead to an interest being felt also in the 


 . 


     


birds of our fields and woods, our rivers, lakes, and 
sea shores. In all these almost countless tribes and 
families of birds, more and more striking proofs are to 
be found of the wonderful tenderness of nature and 
strength of instinct which has been given to them, and 
how every part of their curiously varied forms, and every 
peculiarity in their habits, is suited to the places where 
their lives are led, or we may  sayhow powers have 
been bestowed on them by the great Giver of their lives, 
to enable them to adapt those lives to all that surrounds 
them. 



Young Thrushes. 


   0 


 . 


  VII. 



SEEN AFTER SUNSET. 


OW much of the life and movement 
and various sounds of a summers 
day in our garden seems to 
have come to an end with the 
setting of the sun! The last 
bee has by that time returned to the hive with 
its load of honey; the last ant has hurried across 
the garden paths, and gone down to the sub 
terranean city; the butterflies are all gone, and 
a lull has come in the songs of birds; but even when 
twilight begins to creep on, and all the golden and rosy 
streaks and flushes have faded out of the western sky, 
there is still some life to be found, and the ways of 
many creatures are still to be noticed. Swarms of midges 
and gnats are flying in the air, seeming to dance up and 
down chasing each other, which were born perhaps only 
an hour before, and whose short lives will be ended 
before the morrow. We may watch the little sharp 
billed fly-catcher darting in among them, and returning 
each time to the exact spot whence he came, and con 
tinuing his sport until his slender beak is bristled with 




 .       

the prey he is careful not to swallow, but is going to take 
home to his young ones. We hear the deep-toned 
droning hum of beetles, who fly so heavily and sleepily, 
while sober moths take the place of gay butterflies, 
flying with a lazy, slower flight, and hovering before the 
few flowers which keep open after sunset, and as they 
hover dip their long honey-tubes into their nectaries, 
without poising on the flower. When they do rest, too,. 



they are different from butterflies. Their antennae or 
feelers are bent down under their heads, while their 
soft wings are folded on their backs, and not lifted up 
and placed against each other like those of butterflies. 
It would seem as if they needed the cover of their wings 
in the cool evening air ; and the texture and colour of 
many of them are not very unlike that of grey and drab 
great-coats. Underneath these wrappers, however, they 
have often beautiful hind-wings, on which are lovely 
spots and patches of black and white or crimson and 
orange. The bodies of moths are generally more thick 
and clumsy-looking than those of butterflies, and are 
mostly covered with a longer and more shaggy down, and 


     


 . 


are not narrowed in at the waist like those of butterflies. 

Their feelers are short, and have no knobs at the end, 

and are sometimes feathered very delicately, and stand 

out from the head like flat plumes. It is the difference 
% 



of the feelers in this respect which makes it easy to 
detect a moth from a butterfly in most instances. Very 
few moths, too, fly by day. They seem to shun the 
bright sunshine, and to be altogether a more sober- 
minded race than their relations, the butterflies. Some 
of them, however, are very magnificent creatures in the 
colours and markings of their wings, and are no way 
behind the butterflies in beauty. The Emperor moth, 
for instance, has its four wings most grandly spotted and 
variegated with shades of brown, red, and grey, and deep 
orange. On each wing is a round black eye, encircled 
with rings. It begins life as a caterpillar of a most 
delicate pale green, with pink spots upon it. The Tiger 
moths are also a very handsome family of moths, and 
are so called from their wings being spotted with black, 
white, and yellow, like the skins ot tigers. What are 
called the Hawk-moths are some of them very large and 
handsome, with wings curiously marked and spotted with 


 . 


M  


black and brown. One of these, named from the spots on 
its wings, the Eyed Hawk-moth, is a very handsome and 
conspicuous creature, and might almost be taken for abird ? 
which perhaps it has a fear of happening, since it has a 
way of arranging its body and wings while it sleeps so as 
to look very much like a bit of twig with some dead 
leaves on it. The caterpillar is a large, hairless, fleshy 
creature, with a horn standing up at the end of its body 



Eyed Hawk-moth. 


and feeds on particular trees, such as the lime, the 
poplar, and the elm, etc. It burrows in the ground when 
it changes into a chrysalis, which is dark brown, and 
might easily be taken for a bit of rounded stick. The 
pupa or chrysalis of a moth is in fact never angular like 
that of a butterfly, but smoother and rounder. The 
most curious moth that we ever see in our gardens is 
what is called the Deaths-head moth, on account of the 


i   ( 


 . 


markings on its head, which have been fancied to look 
like a skull. It is, too, a dark and gloomy-looking crea 
ture, and many strange stories are told of it. Among 
others, it is said that in all its three states, as caterpillar, 
chrysalis, and moth, it utters a squeaking sound. This 
can often be heard from the moth when it is caught and 
held in the hand, when it sends forth a sharp cry like a 
mouse, but how it produces this sound has not been dis- 



Chrysalis of Moth. 


covered. This is the moth which is said to be so fond 
of honey, and will creep into hives, and with its short 
thick trunk suck out honey from the cells of a honey 
comb, and we have told in our   on bees, how 
cleverly the latter sometimes contrive to prevent the 
entrance of the great-bodied thief, by constructing narrow 
winding passages at the entrance of the hive. In other 
hives it has been found that after stinging the intruder to 




 . 


x    


death, the bees have covered up its body with a coating 
of propolis, or bee-glue, as if to embalm it like a 
mummy. All these large moths are a great contrast to 
other races of moths who are very small and most 
delicate in form. Some of these have transparent wings, 
and others are like mere tufts of white down or snow 
flakes. The Twenty-plumed moth which we sometimes 
see on our windows has its wings formed of separate 
feathers, somewhat like those of a bird, but only fit to 
make pens for the use of fairies. We may judge of the 
infinite variety of moths to be seen after sunseta few 
only flying by daywhen we are told that in England 
there have been found and named as many as nineteen 
hundred different species. 

Most of the large moths have also very large cater 
pillars, some of which are smooth and fleshy, and others 
are covered with thick hairs, as the caterpillar of the 
Tiger-moth, called  Woolly Bear, from its curious 
appearance. 



We all know too well the strange attraction which the 
flame of a candle has for these night-flying moths, and to 

L 





     


 . 


which we can seldom prevent their falling victims. It is 
said that if on a warm summer night we were to leave a 
lighted candle on a table near an open window, as 
many as twenty species of moth would be sure to be 
attracted to it before dawn. Among such are the 
   Swallow-moths, so called from the form of the wings, 



SWALLOW-MOTH/ 


which are prettily streaked with brown, white, and grey. 
The caterpillar of one of the species having two humps on its 
back, has caused it to be called  Dromedarius. A pretty 
moth called the Lackey-moth has been so called from 



Lackey-moth. 


the gaudy sort of livery worn by the caterpillar, which 
is often found in our gardens; while another little moth. 





 .      

the Poplar-moth, is remarkable for visiting us as'late 
in the year as December. The caterpillar is found in 
June, feeding on poplar leaves, and then, becoming a 
chrysalis in July, remains in that state till December, 
when the moth comes forththe very last of its race to 
make its appearance in the whole year. 

The way in which moths are attracted by the light of 
a flame was thought a great deal of by the ancient 
Greeks, who made no distinction between them and 
butterflies, calling them both Psyche, which also meant 



the soul.'* They had all manner of curious fancies and 
notions,about the strange and irresistible impulse which 
the moth has to so destroy itself, likening it to the way 

* See Third  , on the Butterfly. 


L   
















J   'S  . 

in which the soul is consumed by fiery passions, and 
inventing many stories about Psyche, which we may 
think perhaps more absurd than poetical, though they 
represented many of them very beautifully in sculpture 
and painting. 

Moths may seem to us to be but an idle and un 
interesting sort of insects, not so lively as butterflies 
and with none of the talents and powers of ants and 
bees, and useful only in providing for the continuance 
of their race by the laying of eggs; but among the 
caterpillars of moths we find a number of most curious 
powers, which they exert in the construction of places 
of shelter and concealment, in which they are safe from 
being captured by birds, or where they can be unseen 
and undisturbed whilst undergoing their change into the 
pupa or chrysalis state. Among these clever works are 
those of the leaf-rolling caterpillars, many examples of 



which we may find among the trees and plants of our 
gardens. Different caterpillars have different methods 





 . 


     


of setting about the task of making their place of shelter, 

but all make use of the power they have of spinning 

silken threads, with which they fasten together the 

portion of leaf which they fold or roll up. In some 

the leaf is merely closed together and fastened, while 

the caterpillar lies along the mid rib; in some die side 

of the leaf is rolled round into a long tube; and in others 

the point of the leaf is rolled round several times, and 

* 

fastened with silk cables both within and without. Other 
caterpillars pack together a bunch of leaves, winding the 
silk thread around them much as we tie up a nosegay 
with a string. Others make little bowers of leaves, in 
the midst of which they live and eat, concealed from the 
prying eyes of birds. The caterpillar of a very pretty 
little chocolate-coloured moth, who lays its eggs on the 
lilac tree, one egg only on one leaf, begins directly it is 
hatched to roll up its leaf into the form of a tunnel or 
gallery, where it may feed in safety, and then moves to 
another leaf when it has eaten up its dwelling-place. It 
begins to roll up the leaf from the point, and as the leaf 
is elastic, and has a tendency to spring back again, the 
little creature is obliged to fasten the roll with its silken 
cable as it proceeds, and then, when the roll is finished, 
ends by attaching little cables outside along the whole 
length of the tunnel. This seems as wonderful on the 
part of the little new-born caterpillar, if we come to 
think about it, as if a very young infant, soon after its 
birth, were to set about rolling itself up in a large piece 
of carpet or matting three or four times its own length, 


   0  . 

fastening it with cords inside and outside, so that it could 
not come unrolled again, and all the while somehow 
manufacturing the cords used in the process ! 

The caterpillars of some other moths display the 
talents of carpenters and masons, some of them living 
upon the fibre of wood, and while they eat into the bark 
of a tree making themselves galleries or cells, in which 
they change into the chrysalis state. This is done by 
the caterpillar of the Goat moth, which is a large moth 
often to be met with in many parts of England. Other 
caterpillars of moths will file off fine raspings of stone 
with their sharp cutting jaws or mandibles, and sticking 
these together with silky matter, form little stony cases 
around themselves whilst going through the change into 
the pupa state. 

The most curious of the moth tribe, however, is 
one which although it will live in England, cannot be 
called a native, viz., the moth which is the perfect insect 
of the caterpillar which we call the silk-worm. When we 
think of the vast amount of manufactured silks and 
ribbons, with which human beings in all parts of the 
world clothe and adorn themselves, and which is used 
in the hangings of the mansions of the rich and the 
palaces of the great, it is almost difficult to believe that 
it can be all produced from a caterpillar little more than 
two inches longthat all the cargoes of silk brought to 
be woven into such fabrics from India and China, and all 
that which is produced in Italy, and manufactured there 
and in France into silk and satin, gauze and velvet, is 


 .       

at first but the exceedingly fine thread spun by the 
caterpillar of a moth, in order to make for itself a kind 
of shroud or garment, in which it may hide itself while 
it undergoes the change into a little shapeless pupa or 
chrysalis. In most warm countries this same caterpillar 
is found, and we know not, for how many thousands of 
years the little creatures spun their cocoons, and changed 
into pupae and then again into moths, eating their way 
out from their silken garments, and leaving them upon 
bushes and boughs of trees, without anyone thinking of 
turning the empty little yellow pods to account. Pliny, 
the Roman writer and historian, tells the story of a young 
Greek girl called Pamphila, of the island of Coos, being 
the first to discover that she could wind the fine thread 
off from a cocoon, and that this led to its being spun 
together and then woven into a shining and flexible 
tissue. The story may be true of silk so turned to 
account in Greece, but there is no doubt that the in 
dustrious and ingenious Chinese people were the first to 
make use of the cocoons of this kind of caterpillar. 
They spun and wove the fine thread of the caterpillar 
thousands of years before it was brought into Europe, 
and even then the delicate fabric was so choice and 
dear that it is told of a Roman emperor that he would 
not allow his empress to have a robe of silk, on account 
of the expense. It helps to give us an idea of the fine 
ness of the silk thread in its natural state when we are told 
that in a single cocoon there are as many as nine hundred 
yards of it, while it takes the cocoons of two thousand 
silk-worms to spin a pound of silk ready for weaving. 


      . 

The silk which we use and prize so highly depends, 
however, after all, on the leaf of the mulberry tree. 
Unless the caterpillars are fed on these, no valuable silk, 
capable of being manufactured, is obtained. We may 
notice what a sticky, glutinous juice, is the sap of the 
mulberry leaf, and must think of this being, as it were, 
the foundation of silk, after undergoing a change while 
digested by the silk-worm. The Arabians have a proverb 
which says : 

 Patience ! and the mulberry leaf becomes satin  

and, we will add helped by the caterpillar, who eats 
it, and the ingenuity of human beings. 

When the shades of evening have deepened, and 
made the outlines of trees and plants quite indistinct, 
and when the last note or twitter of birds is silenced, 
and we fancy them all comfortably settled on their 
boughs for their nights roostingleaving, of course, the 
nests to the little ones, or to the mother birds who 
happen to be sitting on eggs; when all is very still, and 
we are perhaps watching some little star that has twinkled 
out of the dark grey sky, we are startled for a moment 
by what seems like the rapid flight across the window 
of a bird with a broken wing, so irregular is it and 
zig-zag.  A bat!  some one exclaims ; and before the 
words are uttered another flies by, or the first returns 
again. We know not whence they come, nor where 
they are going; but we presume that they are after the 
beetles and moths, or other insects to be met with at 


 . 


   S  


that time of evening. It may be that there is a bats 
nest in a wall in some old farm buildings or stables not 
far off, or in the village church tower ; but wherever it is 
that they live, the secret of their hiding-place is well 
kept, so that we are obliged to go to books, or listen to 
the story of some chance person who may happen to 
have seen a bats home, and found his family in it. We 
may, too, have a stuffed bat, or be able to look at the 
various species of them to be found in a museum ; and 
as our own observation of them may have been confined 
to watching their curious, flashing, uncertain flight, we 
shall find it very well worth our while to examine the 
curious body of a bat, and learn all we can about their 
life and ways. It flies, and yet is very far from being a 
bird ! It has wings, and yet it has no feathers. It does 
not lay eggs, but brings forth its young alive, and suckles 
them as does a mouse or squirrel. Its old English name 
was Flittermouse. The Germans call it Fkdcrmaus ; the 
French Chauve-souris , or bald mouse. In Latin it is 
called Vespertilio , because it comes forth and is seen in 
the vesper , or evening. In Greek it is called Cheiroptera , 
or hand-winged; and all these names, especially the last, 
help to explain the nature and form of a bat. It is, 
however, when we see its skeleton, that we can best 
understand its real structure, for we perceive by this that 
though it might be said to have two hind legs and two 
wings, yet that the wings are really like arms and hands 
long arms, very long fingers, and short thumbswhile 
its two hind legs are short, and are provided with feet, 


     


 . 


which have also fingers and thumbs, the thumbs'of both 
hands and feet being like hooks. When the skeleton is 
clothed, as in the living bat, a soft down-covered mem 
brane is stretched all down each side of the body, 
covering the bones of the arms and hands, just as the 
silk of an umbrella covers the whalebone or steel ribs of 



it, and just like an umbrella or large fan, this membrane 
can be folded up when the wings are not wanted for 
flight, and packed up on each side of the body like 
folded fans or shut-up umbrellas. Besides thus using its 
fingers in flight, a bat makes great use of its four thumbs, 
since they are provided with a kind of hooked nail or 
claw. When he sleeps, he gathers up his wide-spread 
wings around him, and hooking himself by his hind feet 







 . 


:    


to some object head downwards, so spends, not his 
night, but his day; for since bats fly by night in search 
of food, they must sleep during the day. 

Still more curious is the use the bat makes of his 
thumbs in walking, for he uses his fore thumbs instead 
of feet. Packed up into a brown ball, he creeps 
along with the help of these short thumbs at the 
joint of the wings, his large ears standing up ready to 
catch every sound. The tip of the tail of a bat is also 
very hard and stiff, so hard it can be used to help them 
in climbing, while in flight it assists them as a rudder in 
steering their course. The muscles of a bafls wing are 
very thick and strong, since they keep on the wing 
through a great part of the night, only ceasing to fly 
backwards and forwards in search of prey when owls 
come forth, who in their turn prey upon mice and bats. 
They seem constantly to dart from one spot to another, 
and yet can be noticed at times turning round in the 
air in pursuit of an insect. A mother bat brings forth 
only two young ones at a time, and is very attentive and 
careful of her offspring. She will fly about with the 
greatest ease with her little ones hanging to her breasts, 
and while at home wraps her large wings round them as 
she nurses them, much as a human nurse will gather her 
shawl round a baby. Some people have been found to 
take pleasure in taming bats, and have even trained 
them to take flies and other food out of their hands, but 
even then they seemed to like to eat in private, and would 
draw their wings over their mouths, and eat what was 


      . 

given them as if behind a veil. They would, too, retire 
to the darkest corner of the room by day and only come 
out when it was dusk, as if light were painful to them. 
One of these trained bats was observed to be very neat 
and tidy, and seen to comb the hair on his back very 
carefully with the fingers of his feet, making a parting 
down the middle as a lady will do. 

All the senses of a bat are very acute, sight, hearing, 
taste, smell, and touch ; but to account for the manner 
in which a bat contrives to avoid knocking against any 
thing as he flies, it has been maintained that he had a 
sixth sense, which gave him this power, rendering him 
conscious of an object being near although he could 
neither see, smell, touch, or hear it.. To make sure of 
this, most cruel experiments were tried by one naturalist, 
who put out the eyes of a bat, and covered over his 
whole head, and yet found that it could fly about a room 
without touching anything, and go in and out of a door 
without touching the sides of the doorway, and make its 
way down a narrow passage with a turn in it, all without 
striking against the walls. He even hung threads from 
the ceiling of a room, only wide enough apart for the bats 
wings when extended to pass through, and found that it 
could do so without coming in contact with them. He 
said, therefore, that bats must have a sixth sense ; but 
other naturalists think that they may only have great 
sensitiveness in the membrane which covers their wings, 
and that this may account for their being able at all 
times to steer their way in the dark. 


 , 


     


Our English bats are very harmless creatures and 
cannot be said to do us any harm  but terrible stories 
have been told of a kind of bat, called the Vampire, 
found in hot countries, which is said to suck the blood 
of human beings after fanning them to sleep with its 
great wings. A traveller, to prove if this were the case, 
had the courage when a Vampire bat came to his tent at 
night, to lie still on his back and bare his chest, in order 
to see what would happen. After flying over him back 
wards and forwards for some time, while its wings fanned 
him most pleasantly, the creature settled at last on his 
chest, and suddenly piercing the skin with one of its 
sharp thumb nails, it began to lick up the blood which 
flowed from the wound. The traveller then thought it 
time to capture and kill the Vampire, who after all had 
not done him much harm, since no poison had been 
injected in the wound. Such facts as these greatly ex 
aggerated, together with their way of living in gloomy 
places, such as caves and hollow trees, and old ruins, 
and their habit of coming forth only in the twilight, have 
caused bats to be looked upon as rather mysterious 
and dismal sort of creatures, only fit to attend on 
witches and hobgoblins, and such imaginary personages, 
so that we do well to learn that their lives are, after all, 
spent much as those of other small creatures, in the 
search after food, and in tenderly rearing and protecting 
their young. We may remind ourselves, too, that the 
 delicate Ariel, who was a good and beneficent spirit, 
performing so cleverly and zealously the commands 


      . 

of his master, Prospero, describes himself as making 
use of them in his journeys through the air when he 
sings 


 On a bats back do I fly, 
After sunset, merrily. 
























THE DWELLERS IN OUR GARDENS. 


     


  VIII. 

INVADERS, VISITORS, AND SETTLERS. 

T may seem strange that we should 
have to relate, that our gardens are 
sometimes invaded by a wild species 
of quadruped who comes into them 
at times, seeking, as do most wild 
beasts, that which it may devour 
scrambling in the first instance over our walls, or making 
its way through holes in our palings, or gaps in our 
hedges, in its search after food. It is of course not a 
lion, or tiger, nor even a lynx or fox; but however it 
may differ from all these creatures in its outward 
appearance, it has really much that is like them in 
the structure of its body, for all quadrupeds are like 
each other in the form and arrangement of the bones 
which compose their skeletons; just as in the construction 
of houses there is much that is alike in the beams and 
rafters, however in their external appearance, they may 
differ from each other. In the skeletons of all quad 
rupeds is found the back-bone, or spine, composed of 
many separate vertebra , or'small bones fitted into each 
other, so as to make the whole flexible, with the skull at 





l o  . 

the end, which contains the brain. Branching out from the 
back-bone, or spine, are the ribs, which bend round and 
protect some of the most tender internal parts of the 
body; while in the bones of the four legs, there is much 
alike in every quadruped both in their form and arrange 
ment as well as in the muscles which move them in life. 
It is therefore in size that the invader whom we are 
going to describe, differs most from any other quadrupeds, 
that roam wild about the forests and deserts; and in this 
respect the difference is very great. In the skeleton of 
the elephant, for instance, which is the largest of all 
quadrupeds, we know that it is composed of thick, heavy 
solid bones, almost as hard and strong as if made of 
iron or stone, while the whole skeleton is perhaps two 
and a half yards in length; and in the case of the 
animal which sometimes invades our gardens, the bones 
of which it is composed are as fine and delicate as if 
carved in ivory, and the whole being but about two 
and a half inches long, it could easily lie in the palm of 
our handfor the creature of which we are speaking is 
but a mouse, the very smallest of all quadrupeds. 

Two or three different kinds of mice come to us at 
times from the fields, and if they find that they can 
supply themselves with food enough among our vegetables, 
and such seeds and fruits as are to be found lying under 
our trees, and especially if we happen to grow Indian 
corn, or have some bushes of hazel-nuts and filberts 
if only such delicious provender as this is to be reckoned 
on which can be stored up, they will become settlers 


 . l l 

with us, and make their nests in some sheltered nook 
beneath the root of a tree, or under a tuft of grass, or in 
some cranny in a wall, and lining it carefully with moss 
and dead leaves and hay, will there live and bring forth, 
and rear their young. As they have usually as many as 
six or seven young ones at a time, and two or three 
families in a year, it will make all the difference to 
us and our gardener, when such invaders become 
settlers. 

The mouse which most often lives in our gardens is 
the wood mouse, or as it is sometimes called, the  Long 
tailed Field Mouse *a pretty gentle timid creature 
after all, with large bright eyes, and broader and rounder 
ears than those of the house mouse, and with a tail 
nearly as long as its head and body. Like the squirrel, 
it lays up stores of food for the winterseeds, nuts, and 
grain, etc. It probably sleeps a good deal during the 
very cold weather, and yet may be seen venturing forth 
even when the snow is upon the ground to forage for 
food if its store is becoming exhausted, and rather than 
starve will burrow down to our crocus and snowdrop 
bulbs and nibble them away. Since it feeds principally 
on vegetable food, it lives on good terms with the other 
inhabitants of our gardens, and has only to fear being 
caught by some stray cat or owl who is on the look out 
for mice and moles. It is curious to think of the 
quiet snug life which our little mice settlers may lead, 


* See last page. 


M 


     


 . 


all the winter feeding and sleeping alternately in their 
warm nests, and yet cases may arrive when, perhaps, the 
winter being longer than usual and their storehouse 
becoming exhausted, and nothing to be had in the 
garden that will suit them, they will make their way 
out beyond its boundaries again, and get into some 
neighbouring wood or plantation, where beech-nuts and 
acorns are still to be found in the dead leaves at the 
foot of trees. A near relation of the wood mouse, is a 
somewhat still smaller animal, and is likely only to pay us 
very short visits. It is called the harvest mouse, and 
living principally on grain, constructs for itself a nest 
amid the stalks of corn, like a round bag hung among 
them, formed of leaves and grass woven together. The 
entrance into this curious nest is contrived so as to close 
as with a spring after the owner has entered it, or when 
he leaves it, filled with his young ones or with his store of 
food. This mouse is able to catch hold of objects, such 
as a twig or stalk of corn, with the end of his tail, like 
an opossum, so as to swing himself from one twig 
or stalk to another. Mice have such large families, and 
increase their numbers so fast that a naturalist who 
wanted to ascertain how fast they would multiply, put 
a pair of harvest mice into a large box, together with 
a quantity of grain, and on opening the box three or 
four months afterwards found that there were one 
hundred and twenty mice in it. 

The mole is another quadruped which is sure to invade 
our gardens, or pay them occasional visits, though we 


 .      

do not often meet with him above ground. In a 
neighbouring field we may perhaps see the little hillocks 
of earth which moles bring to the surface after burrowing 
out the subterranean passages which they form, and even 
in our own gardens such traces of them are to be found 
when they make their way under our walls and fences, 
in search of earth-worms, which form their principal 
article of food. From time to time we do, however, get 
a sight of moles, and though we may fancy them at first 
to be ugly and shapeless creatures, it is worth our while 



to examine them well, that we may learn how curiously 
their form is suited to their manner of life. First of all, 
the long shapeless body is covered with a most smooth 
and velvet-like fur, which will turn any way, so that 
while groping about underground it enables the creature 
to slip easily through the passages it burrows out, either 
backwards or forwards. The head is joined on to the 
body without any neck, and has a long flexible snout, 
which penetrates the earth like a ploughshare, while its 
short fore-legs have broad paws like fat hands turned 


m   


     


 .. 


outwards, with five fingers and sharp pointed nails, just 
fitted for first helping to rake away the earth, and then 
to throw it back on each side as the creature ploughs its 
way along. Since the mole spends its life in the dark, its 
eyes are very minute, and perhaps enable it to see with a 
very little amount of light, while its ears are scarcely 
visible at all. 

Though the mole travels so much underground, and does 
not require shelter like most other animals, it has still a 
home of its own. In the centre of one of the largest 
hillocks, or mole-hills, will be found its nest, and nothing 
can be more curiously or artfully constructed than these 
abodes. They are formed like little fortresses, composed 
of two round galleries, one above another, communi 
cating with each other by five upright passages, while 
other runs/ or tunnels, branch out from the lower 
gallery in every direction, and extend over a considerable 
space. In the centre of the fortress is the principal 
apartment, in which the creature dwells, and from which, 
if attacked, he can make his escape by any of his secret 
passages. He is not obliged to be always burrowing his 
way through the earth in search of food when such a 
system of tunnels has been executed by him, but can use 
it as a sort of hunting-ground around his fortress; and 
we may fancy the proprietor of such a territory running 
about his underground passages in search of worms, and 
living rather at ease when once he has formed his abode, 
and dug his tunnels that communicate with it. He has 
only to be careful not to show himself above ground too 


 .      

often, if an owl happens to dwell in his neighbourhood, 
and to beware of the traps of the mole-catcher, who 
knows so well all his ways and habits. When the creature 
has to bring forth and rear its young, it forms a different 
sort of nest in one of its raised hillocks, carefully con 
structed with drains, so as to carry off moisture, and which 
nest is supplied with plenty of leaves and warm materials 
for bedding. Moles do us very little harm in our gardens, 
since they do not eat vegetables, and do eat many 
animals of which we might otherwise have too many. 
The underground passages they make seem also to break 
up the soil and help to drain it. Earth-worms are said 
to be so afraid of moles, who prey on them so constantly, 
that no sooner do they feel any shaking of the ground 
about them, like the approach of their enemy, than they 
wriggle up to the surface of the earth ; and it is a still 
more curious fact that those birds who also make worms 
their food seem aware of this, so that thrushes and lap 
wings will be seen knocking the earth with their bills, 
and stamping with their feet round the holes of worms, 
in order to bring them up, when, of course, the poor 
worm becomes the prey of the bird, instead of the 
imaginary mole. Sometimes the soft velvety skins of 
moles are used to make gloves, and pouches, and purses, 
and we have even heard of a gentleman wearing a 
waistcoat made of mole-skins. 

And now we must describe, what may be thought 
perhaps to be the very ugliest of all the dwellers in our 
gardens, and yet it is one who has much in its life that is 


     


 . 


very curious. It has, in fact, a sort of double life, being 
at first an inhabitant of some pond in the neighbourhood 
of the garden where it is found, in form very like a fish, 
and feeding on water plants, and afterwards becoming a 
land animal, and requiring for its support flies, slugs, 
small beetles, and worms. We know him best when, as 
a frog, he sits under the shelter of some large cabbage 
or rhubarb leaf, or among the strawberry plants in our 
gardens, careful not to expose himself to the heat or 
light of the sun, for he likes shade and dampness as 
much as the Slow One of our first  ; in fact, his 
life depends on keeping his skin moist, and he would die 
were he to be exposed to the heat of the sun, so as to 
have his skin dried up. There he sits grave and ugly ; 
his prominent eyes on the look out for any living crea 
ture on the wing that may come near, and with his great 
mouth ready to open like a trap, and his long tongue 
prepared to dart out to capture the prey! 

The frog, though it has four legs, is not classed with 
quadrupeds, but with reptiles. It is said to be am 
phibious, which means having both livesone on 
land and the other in water. In early spring the eggs of 
the frog may be seen in large clusters in ponds, like 
transparent beads, with a black dot in the middle, and 
in April the creature we call a tadpole is hatched from 
them. At first it is like a tiny fish with gills outside its 
head, but these soon disappear and nothing is to be 
seen but a round body, like a head and stomach in one, 
and a long tail (Fig. i). It feeds on the plants which 


 . 


     


grow in the water, and especially on the green duck 
weed which covers the surface of ponds. It has little 
hooks on its jaws, to enable it to bite the leaves, with a 
sort of tube or sucker on its lower lip, by which it hangs 
to floating plants. When the tadpole is about six weeks 
old, a pair of legs begin to make their appearance near 
the tail, and by-and-by another pair come out near the 
head (Fig.  ), the tail disappears and the animal is then 
a young frog. It makes its way out of the pond and 
begins to live on flies and other living creatures; many 
other changes having come about in its body, which 
enables it to breathe air and digest a different kind of 
food. As a great many young frogs leave their native 



ponds at the same time, and make their way to fields 
and gardens, the ground will seem alive with them 
sometimes, and people have been known to fancy that 
a shower of frogs had fallen, but it has only been the 
migration of thousands of them, obeying a natural im 
pulse, and turning their backs on the place of their 
birth, begin to exercise for the first time their power 
of leaping and crawling. Frogs have wonderfully 








i   


 . 


strong muscles provided for the movements of their 
legs, since they have so many different motions to per 
form with themswimming, walking, and leaping. Even 
after a frog has its four legs, it is a great swimmer, and 
its feet are webbed with skin between the toes, like 
those of a duck, for after spending the greater part of 
the year on land it returns to its pond again late in 
autumn, and when winter sets in, buries itself in the 
mud at the bottom and remains there in a torpid state 
until spring returns. The power of a frogs muscle is 
shown most in its leaping and hopping, since it can 
jump into the air as high as twenty times its own height, 
and at a single leap go the distance of fifty times its own 
length. The bones and muscles of a frogs hind legs 
are said to be very like those of a man, but we cannot 
very well fancy a man being able to perform such a feat 
in the way of jumping or leaping. The tongue of a 
frog, which it uses for catching its prey, is very long and 
narrow, and is placed in its mouth quite differently to 
that of most animals, since it is fastened within the 
front of the lower jaw, with the end lying towards the 
throat-just the reverse way to that in which our own 
tongues lie in our mouths. It is also covered with a 
sticky kind of liquid, to which the flies, as they are 
caught, adhere, and not being able to escape, are drawn 
into the frogs large mouth and sent down the throat. 
Watch as we may, however, it is almost impossible to 
see the tongue of a frog as he is fly-catching, so rapid 
is its motion. 


 . 


     


Frogs grow very slowly and live very long. They are 
nearly related to toads, who pass through the same 
changes in their lives, and are amphibious , or both- 
lived. A toad can be known by the small bumps on 
its skin, and by its crawling instead of leaping. There 
have been plenty of people, who though they might not 
perhaps have found beauty in them, yet liked to make 
pets of frogs and toads. We have known a family, who 
had a large pet frog, called Jacob, who was supposed 
to be fond of music. When on summer evenings the 
drawing-room windows were left open and playing and 
singing likely to be going on, a flop would be heard 



on the floor, and it would be found that Jacob had 
come in to listen to the music; and the greatest care 
v r as taken that no one trod on him, or set the legs of a 
chair on him, while some kind of supper would be found 
to suit him before he took his leave. Late in the au 
tumn he and his fellow frogs will have returned to their 
native ponds, where they spend the winter in the mud 


   0 


 . 


at the bottom, and in the following spring have a con 
cert of their own, since frogs at that time of the year 
send forth their curious croaking, the chorus often be 
ginning in the twilight and continuing far into the night. 
In America there is a species of frog, whose croaking is 
not only louder, but also more musical than that of our 
frogs, so that, as in England, we go out sometimes after 
dark to listen to the nightingales, people there;will go 
out to hear a frog concert. 

We should be neglecting to notice a large portion of 
the living creatures which are to be found in our gardens, 
were we not to tell something about the curious and 
beautiful Beetles, some of which are settlers, and some 
only visitors to us, but of which many species may be 
met with even in the course of a single summers day. 
It would, however, take the whole of a little book like 
this were we to describe even the appearance of many 
of them, so greatly do they vary in shape, form, colour, 
and size, though in their habits and mode of life there is 
not so great a difference. 

Beetles belong to the class of insects to which is given 
the name of Coleoptera , a word which means wing- 
sheathed, owing to their having besides the wings used 
for flight, another pair of hard, opaque outer wings or 
wing-cases, which cover the former from sight, except 
when the insect is flying. The pair of light gauzy wings 
are folded up when the beetle is at rest, and the thick 
sheaths close together over the body, like valves fitting 
so exactly that they often seem like one piece, and we 


 .       

are apt to forget the very beautiful and delicate trans 
parent wings which are folded up under their hard shiny 
coats, ready to be expanded and bear them up into the 
air. 

As we look at a beetle at rest, we can easily perceive 
that there is not the narrow part between the chest and the 
stomach which we see in many insects, but that the head 
and chest are joined immediately on to the rest of the 
body. 

All beetles have but two eyes, but these are what are 
called compound eyes, and are made up of many small 
eye-lets , which no doubt supply them with very acute sight. 
As their food is very varied, their mouths are fitted for 
several ways of getting at it, and in different kinds of 
beetles are suited for cutting, gnawing, tearing, or chew 
ingbut never for sucking or for lapping up, like those 
of the fly and bee. And they need all these different 
little instruments for feeding themselves, since some 
prey on the flesh of dead animals, some on rotten wood, 
some on wood that is fresh and growing, some on the 
roots of grasses and plants, some on grain, and some 
on leaveswhile the most dainty of all would seem to 
be those who feed in the petals of flowers. Beetles 
pass through the same changes and transformations as 
other insects. At first the form is like that of a grub or 
larva, like a short thick worm, its body very soft, but 
with a horny head, something like what it afterwards has 
as a perfect beetle. In this state it prepares for the 
change into a pupa or chrysalis by contriving some kind 


     


 . 


of defence around it. Some have been hatched from 
eggs previously laid in the earth, and when about to 
undergo the change, they hollow out the earth around 
them so as to form a little cave. Others make a sort of 
cocoon, by joining together particles of earth with web or 
sticky matter. Those which live in wood have no need 
of cocoon, but change into pupae in the hollow they have 
made while feeding on the fibre of the wood, while 
some, which feed on plants, hang themselves in round 
silken cocoons from the leaves or stalks of it. 

We have no English beetles which are to be compared 
in splendour with the Diamond-beetle, which is found in 
tropical countries, whose wing-cases, when seen in the 
microscope, seems studded with brilliant gems, yet many 
of our garden beetles are very beautiful in form and 
colour in their delicate antennae and legs, and in the 
hues of their wing-cases. We find in the centre of our 
roses the beautiful Rose-beetle, with its body of a bright 
emerald green burnished with gold, and who seems as if 
conscious of the becoming contrast of the glowing pink 
or crimson of its cradle to the hue of its own body. The 
first state of life of the insect is very different to the 
nature of its favourite food, since the grub is found in 
decayed wood and ant-hills. Perhaps no beetle is more 
unlike the Rose-beetle than the great brown Cockchafer, 
which we sometimes encounter in our gardens in the 
evening, when it will strike against us as it flies, as if its 
sight were imperfect; from which circumstances is sup 
posed to come the saying, As blind as a beetle. 


 . 


     


When the female Cockchafer wants to lay her eggs, she 
digs a hole in the ground about six inches deep and 
there leaves them, and by-and-by comes from them a 
white or greyish-coloured grub, which feeds on the roots 
of plants for years. It then goes still deeper into the 
earth and changes into a pupa or chrysalis, and at last 
makes its way out of its subterranean abode a perfect 
Cockchafer. 

Another species of beetle with which we are all so 
well acquainted is the little Lady-bird, or Cow-bird, as it 
is called in some counties of England. There are 
several kinds which frequent our gardens. One with 
two black spots on its round and scarlet wing-cases 
another with five spots, while some are black spotted 
or blotched with red. It is a useful insect in gardens, 
because it feeds on the aphides or plant-lice, which 
destroy so many vegetables. The largest of all our 
English beetles is the Stag-beetle, which very rarely pays 
us a visit, but who has such stag-like horns standing out 
from the front of its head, that we are sure to know its 
name. The Burying-beetle is, perhaps, the most curious 
of its race in its habits. It not only lives on the flesh 
of dead animals, but after it has feasted on them, the 
female lays her eggs in the same body, in order that 
the grubs, which come from them, may have the flesh of 
the creature also for their food. To secure this the 
beetles bury the dead body of the bird or mole which 
they have found, before they begin their feast. First 
they dig around it a sort of trench, and then gradually 


     


 . 


hollowing out the earth beneath it, pull the body down. 
While the little sextons are invisible, the body may be 
seen gradually sinking down into its grave. 



Female Burying-beetle. 



Male Burying-beetle. 


Very nearly related to beetles is the earwig, which has 
also its two sets of wing's, with the gauzy pair folded up 
like fans under the sheath-wings. The grub and chrysalis 
of the earwig is very like the perfect insect., only without 






 . 


*   


wings and wing-cases. It has very strong horny mandibles 
or jaws, and we know well the curious pair of pincers 
it carries about at the end of his body as if for defence. 
If we want to find a number of earwigs, we must look 
for them in some moist place, such as under a large stone 
or some decayed straw, and yet while it will live on 
animal food it will eat the leaves and petals of flowers. 

Any injury, however, which earwigs do in a garden is 
made amends for by their eating in their turn many 
mischievous insects. It has been a very mistaken notion 
that earwigs were apt to get into peoples ears, and the 
notion has perhaps originated from the name of the 
creature, and not the name from the practice of 
so doing. The word earwig comes in fact from ear, and 
the Saxon word weiga a worm. In German it is called 
Ohrwurm , and both names have probably come from the 
shape of its beautiful gauzy wings, which are just the 
form of the human ear. Perhaps too the notion has also 
been preserved from the habit which these little creatures 
have of creeping into holes during the day-time to hide 
from the light; at all events they seem to be always 
suspected of doing harm which never happens, and 
do not deserve to have gained such a bad reputation, 
since they show great affection for their offspring, and 
take the most tender care of them, the female earwig 
sitting on her eggs to hatch them, and then gathering the 
grubs under her body to protect them just as a hen does 
her chickens. 

Among the different invaders of our gardens, there 


     


 . 


are none, perhaps, whom we are so unwilling to have 
there as settlers, as those near relations of beesthe 
wasps. During the spring and early summer, we perhaps 
forget all about them, just at the very time when they 
are so busy themselves in constructing their dwelling 
places, and when too they are really serviceable to us, 
as we shall presently see; and it is only when they 
seem to appear on the scene as the natural enemies of 
the human race, that we begin to notice and dread the 
robbing and plundering propensities, and the fierce vin 
dictiveness of our garden ryfc-corps in its gaudy uniform 
of black and yellow. 

*Like the earwig, we after all give the wasp more 
credit for mischief than he deserves. He carries, 
it is true, a most formidable weapona sharp-pointed 
stiletto, which can be sent deep into our flesh, and a 
bag of poison, of which a single drop poured into the 
wound, can cause us hours, and even days, of pain and 
inconvenience. But has the wasp really any blood 
thirsty designs towards us, or any natural desire to use 
his deadly weapons against us ? Far from it. A wasp, 
in fact, only attacks and wounds us in self-defence. He 
has a natural desire, it is quite true, for the sweet juices 
of plums and nectarines, and other luscious fruits, and 
once having taken possession of the ripest he can find 
if we should happen to want that particular plum or 
nectarine and disturb him in his feast, knocking him 
roughly, perhaps, as we detach it from the branchhe 
treats us as marauders and invaders of his rights, and 


.  . l]J 

stings us. He comes in at our open windows, attracted 
perhaps by the scent of sugar on our tables, and if we 
attempt to do battle with him as he flies about in search 
of the sugar-basin, he will again sting us in self-defence. 
Let us on such occasions remind ourselves that during 
the former part of his life, before fruit was ripe or 
windows left open, the wasp was feeding on just the 
kind of matter that we are glad to get rid of, and that 
before his taste for sweets has come to him he has been 
performing the office of scavenger, and feasting on putrid 
and impure animal substances of all kinds ; and should 
we like to exchange the feeling of enmity too often 
nourished against him for one of wonder and admiration 
at his powers and clever works, let us find out all we can 
of his curious life and ways. 

Like bees and ants, the wasps we are sure to find in 
our gardens live in communities, and have among them 
males, females, and neuters or working wasps. Their 
nests too, which contain something like the combs of 
the bee-hives, are found in banks and hollow trees, and 
such situations as are selected by wild-bees for their 
nests. The cells of wasps prepared for the reception of 
the eggs, from which the larvae or grubs are hatched, and 
in which they are carefully fed by nursing wasps, and 
where they undergo the transformation into pupae before 
becoming perfect waspsthese small cradles for their 
future population are formed not of wax like the cells of 
bees, nor of any substance at all resembling it, but of a 
sort of paper made of fine sawdust. Just of such a sub- 


N 


I   S 


 . 


stance as we manufacture of paper and call papier-mache , 
or mashed paper, are formed the combs of wasps. Instead 
of collecting materials from flowers and digesting it into- 
wax, as does the bee, the wasp rasps off fine fibres of 
wood from any paling, dead tree, or gate-post that he 
can get at, and mixing it with some gummy liquid, 
which his own body supplies, makes a pulp, which he 
spreads out into thin sheets of paper, and first lining the 
walls of the round nest with many layers of these, after 
wards with the same material forms the cells, which, like 
storeys of numerous small apartments, fill up the nest. 



The labour undergone by wasps in preparing their 
nests is even more wonderful than what is performed by 
bees within the hives which we prepare for them, and it 
seems to combine the mining and excavating power of 
the ant with the building talent of the bee ? since the 





 . 


       


first operation towards the foundation of a wasp colony, 
is the hollowing out of a long horizontal tunnel in some 
bank, with a large oval cave at the end, sufficiently ca 
pacious to be fitted up afterwards with layers of the tiny 
cradles wanted for the future population. The long 
tunnel and the large cave have both to be hollowed out 
with infinite labour by the gradual removal of the soil 
in the form of minute pellets carried in the wasps jaws 
or mandibles, and which the cautious little workpeople 
are careful to carry away to some distance from the 
mouth of the tunnel, so as to prevent the situation of 
the secret passage being detected, through an accumula 
tion of earth near its entrance. Then paper-making 
begins, and more wonderful industry and perseverance in 
kneading and plastering, and when the walls of 'the large 
cave are lined and tapestried with many layers of paper, 
there comes into operation lastly the same constructing 
skill as that of the bee, in forming the tiny six-sided 
cells, crowded together so as to take up as little space 
and material as possible ; only that as each storey of cells 
is placed across the nest horizontally and is separate 
from each other storey, and not joined end to end, as in 
the combs of bees, the cells are flat at the bottom, and 
there is no occasion for the three-sided pyramid at the 
end of each, which is seen in the cell of the bee. The 
storeys in the wasps nest are, in fact, placed one above 
another, as in our own dwelling, only that a space is left 
between each storey, in order that the worker wasps 
may get to the young broods in the cellsfor the combs 


N   


iSo 


 . 


of wasps are never used for the storing up honey in, as 
those of bees. A most curious contrivance is adopted 
by the s wasps, in order to secure the separation of the 
different storeys and the firmness of the whole nest. A 



little upright pillar of solid wasp-paper mortar is placed- 

between each layer of cells, just as a human architect 

places pillars to support ceilings or roofs over large 

apartments or buildings. When the 

cells are filled with grubs, the attention 

of the wasp nurses to the young is 

equal to that of bees, but it does not 

Portion of Comb, appear that any substance like the bee- 

witli supporting bread of kneaded pollen is formed for 
pillar, from Nest .... , . . . . 

of Wasp their iood, but that the wasp brings 

home to the broods such food as she 
feeds on herselfprobably after it has undergone some 
change in her stomach, and it may be that her avidity 
for sweet juices may arise from her desire to carry it 
home for the young of her community. And when the 
cold of late autumn has crept on and the latest of juicy 
pears has been gathered, and windows never left open, 
the life and labours of the wasp end together, the colony 
is reduced down to a few males and females, and a few 
workers, who contrive to survive the frosts of winter, to 
begin again in the spring the construction of a new 
paper city, and are too busy over their work to notice 
in the blossoms of our fruit trees the preparation for 
their autumn feasts. Shall we not after all bid them 
welcome to a share of the dainties for which nature has 
given them a relish as well as ourselves ? 




 . iSf 

In the form of the wasp with its slender waist, is seen 
very plainly the separation between the thorax or chest, 
and the abdomen or stomach, which forms one of the 
distinguishing marks of an insect, while in their lives, 
each individual passes through the three changes, which 
is peculiar to every other insectfirst, the grub or larva; 
then, the chrysalis or pupa; and lastly, the perfect insect, 
such as the butterfly, ant, bee, and beetle, in which last 
form the creatures never grow. 


And now let us fancy ourselves taking a walk round 
some garden with those who have been our readers, and 
let us pass in review some of the living creatures of 
whose lives and works we have endeavoured to give a 
history. If our walk be in the early morning, while 
grass and leaves are still damp with dew, we shall be 
very likely to meet with the  Slow One of our first 
 , going home, perhaps, after his breakfast on juicy 
leaves of some kind, and we know that he will soon be 
shut up in his shell, and stuck fast against the smooth 
surface of some stone or tree bark, quietly digesting his 
food, while he makes a little addition to the size of his 
shell. We may see, too, many  Spinners and Weavers, 
seated in the midst of their delicate, glistening webs, 
waiting for flies, or if the owners of the webs be not 
there, we know that they are in nooks close at hand, 
most carefully concealed, but from out of which they 



     


 . 


can easily run down to seize on their prey; and we may 
notice how cleverly the weavers of the great wheel 
shaped nets have contrived to moor them with long lines 
of web to some distant objects, and may calculate how 
many times their own length are some of those lines 
which they have ejected from their tiny spinnerets. We 
pass on, and may contrive to see the Three-lived Ones 
in each of their states; as caterpillars, feeding on the 
leaves of plants and vegetables ; or hanging to boughs or 
ledges of palings, in their pupa or chrysalis state; or 
meet them in their most perfect form, as lovely butter 
flies, fluttering about among flowers, or just resting on 
them long enough to send down their long drinking 
tubes into their nectaries. As we tread the gravel paths, 
we are sure to notice some doings of the u Underground 
Workers,some piles of earth thrown up while they have 
been excavating a cave-city, or we may see a long pro 
cession of them crossing a path, some going one way 
and some another, on important business no doubt; 
very busy and very fussy, and yet stopping occasionally 
to touch feelers and have a talk; or we may see where a 
number of them are making their way up the stem of 
some standard rose-tree, in order to  milk their cattle 
that is to say, take from the green aphides on the 
rose-buds and stalks the sweet honey-dew. We see here 
and there and everywhere that flowers and blossoms are 
to be found, the  Busy Ones collecting honey and 
pollen, dipping their flexible tongues now into this flower- 
cup and now into that, and burying themselves in others 


 .      

so deeply that they come out white, or red, or yellow, 
with pollen, which is to be kneaded at home into bee- 
bread. During all the time of our walk we hear the 
cheerful trills and twitters and sweet notes of countless 
birds, and see them busy in their search after food, while 
we know that most of them have snug little nests in the 
trees and shrubs, and amid the ivy on walls about us, 
filled with young fledglings whom they never forget to 
provide for. As we pass a strawberry bed, we may 
chance to see some frog waiting with his large mouth 
and long tongue ready for trapping flies ; or may chance 
to come upon a mole, who may have ventured up from 
his burrows underground. Even when we walk about our 
gardens in winter time, when all seems so still and quiet, 
we may remind ourselves of how much life there is still 
around us, or provision for future life. Ants down in 
their subterranean cities, taking their long winter sleep. 
Bees also dormant in their hives. Little mice snug and 
dozing in their warm nests; while in every nook and 
cranny of tree-trunks and branches, and in chinks of 
palings and walls, are eggs and pupns of all manner of 
insects, waiting only for the warmth of spring to bring 
them into life. 

And as we are reminded of all the creatures whose 
history, or evena portion of it, we have read, and 
whose ways we have been led to observe, we cannot but 
reflect with wonder on the abundance of life and the 
endless variety in the forms and modes of life to be 
observed even in the creatures who are to be found 


     


 . 


within the compass of a garden. We have seen, too, 
how their bodies and all their powers are most wonder 
fully suited for the support and preservation of their 
lives. We have learnt that not only can each creature 
provide for itself, but has the inborn knowledge and 
impulse which we call instinct , prompting it to take most 
tender care of its young, or leading it to provide for its 
offspring beforehand, whom it will never see or know. 
We have seen how curious and marvellously skilful are 
some of the works of these small creatures for all these 
purposesthe web of the spider, the cell of the bee, the 
cocoon of the caterpillar, and the nest of the bird; and 
we know with what fidelity and unwearying patience and 
industry they employ all the capacities and powers given 
to them by nature ; all which cannot fail to inspire us, 
not merely with love for them, but leads us to feel some 
thing like respect for these our little fellow-creatures, 
who, like ourselves, have received so many tokens of 
the loving-kindness and tender mercy of Him  who 
made and loveth all. 



Long-tailed Field Mouse. 
MORE NONSENSE
Pictures, Rhymes, Botany, etc.
by
EDWARD LEAR
CONTENTS
  NONSENSE BOTANY
  ONE HUNDRED NONSENSE PICTURES AND RHYMES
  TWENTY-SIX NONSENSE RHYMES AND PICTURES
INTRODUCTION
In offering this little book--the third of its kind--to the public, I am
glad to take the opportunity of recording the pleasure I have received at
the appreciation its predecessors have met with, as attested by their wide
circulation, and by the universally kind notices of them from the Press. To
have been the means of administering innocent mirth to thousands, may
surely be a just motive for satisfaction, and an excuse for grateful
expression.

At the same time, I am desirous of adding a few words as to the history of
the two previously published volumes, and more particularly of the first or
original "Book of Nonsense," relating to which many absurd reports have
crept into circulation, such as that it was the composition of the late
Lord Brougham, the late Earl of Derby, etc.; that the rhymes and pictures
are by different persons; or that the whole have a symbolical meaning,
etc.; whereas, every one of the Rhymes was composed by myself, and every
one of the Illustrations drawn by my own hand at the time the verses were
made. Moreover, in no portion of these Nonsense drawings have I ever
allowed any caricature of private or public persons to appear, and
throughout, more care than might be supposed has been given to make the
subjects incapable of misinterpretation: "Nonsense," pure and absolute,
having been my aim throughout.

As for the persistently absurd report of the late Earl of Derby being the
author of the "First Book of Nonsense," I may relate an incident which
occurred to me four summers ago, the first that gave me any insight into
the origin of the rumor.

I was on my way from London to Guildford, in a railway carriage,
containing, besides myself, one passenger, an elderly gentleman: presently,
however, two ladies entered, accompanied by two little boys. These, who had
just had a copy of the "Book of Nonsense" given them, were loud in their
delight, and by degrees infected the whole party with their mirth.

"How grateful," said the old gentleman to the two ladies, "all children,
and parents too, ought to be to the statesman who has given his time to
composing that charming book!"

(The ladies looked puzzled, as indeed was I, the author.)

"Do you not know who is the writer of it?" asked the gentleman.

"The name is 'Edward Lear,'" said one of the ladies.

"Ah!" said the first speaker, "so it is printed; but that is only a whim of
the real author, the Earl of Derby. 'Edward' is his Christian name, and, as
you may see, LEAR is only EARL transposed."

"But," said the lady, doubtingly, "here is a dedication to the
great-grandchildren, grand-nephews, and grand-nieces of Edward, thirteenth
Earl of Derby, by the author, Edward Lear."

"That," replied the other, "is simply a piece of mystification; I am in a
position to know that the whole book was composed and illustrated by Lord
Derby himself. In fact, there is no such a person at all as Edward Lear."

"Yet," said the other lady, "some friends of mine tell me they know Mr.
Lear."

"Quite a mistake! completely a mistake!" said the old gentleman, becoming
rather angry at the contradiction; "I am well aware of what I am saying: I
can inform you, no such a person as 'Edward Lear' exists!"

Hitherto I had kept silence; but as my hat was, as well as my handkerchief
and stick, largely marked inside with my name, and as I happened to have in
my pocket several letters addressed to me, the temptation was too great to
resist; so, flashing all these articles at once on my would-be
extinguisher's attention, I speedily reduced him to silence.

The second volume of Nonsense, commencing with the verses, "The Owl and the
Pussy-Cat," was written at different times, and for different sets of
children: the whole being collected in the course of last year, were then
illustrated, and published in a single volume, by Mr. R.J. Bush, of 32
Charing Cross.

The contents of the third or present volume were made also at different
intervals in the last two years.

Long years ago, in days when much of my time was passed in a country house,
where children and mirth abounded, the lines beginning, "There was an old
man of Tobago," were suggested to me by a valued friend, as a form of verse
lending itself to limitless variety for rhymes and pictures; and
thenceforth the greater part of the original drawings and verses for the
first "Book of Nonsense" were struck off with a pen, no assistance ever
having been given me in any way but that of uproarious delight and welcome
at the appearance of every new absurdity.

Most of these Drawings and Rhymes were transferred to lithographic stones
in the year 1846, and were then first published by Mr. Thomas McLean, of
the Haymarket. But that edition having been soon exhausted, and the call
for the "Book of Nonsense" continuing, I added a considerable number of
subjects to those previously-published, and having caused the whole to be
carefully reproduced in woodcuts by Messrs. Dalzell, I disposed of the
copyright to Messrs. Routledge and Warne, by whom the volume was published
in 1843.
                                                              EDWARD LEAR.

VILLA EMILY, SAN REMO,
August, 1871.

ONE HUNDRED NONSENSE PICTURES AND RHYMES.
    There was a young person of Bantry,
    Who frequently slept in the pantry;
    When disturbed by the mice, she appeased them with rice,
    That judicious young person of Bantry.

    There was an Old Man at a Junction,
    Whose feelings were wrung with compunction
    When they said, "The Train's gone!" he exclaimed, "How forlorn!"
    But remained on the rails of the Junction.

  

    There was an old person of Minety,
    Who purchased five hundred and ninety
    Large apples and pears, which he threw unawares
    At the heads of the people of Minety.

  

    There was an old man of Thermopylae,
    Who never did anything properly;
    But they said, "If you choose to boil eggs in your shoes,
    You shall never remain in Thermopylae."

  

    There was an old person of Deal,
    Who in walking used only his heel;
    When they said, "Tell us why?" he made no reply,
    That mysterious old person of Deal.

  

    There was an old man on the Humber,
    Who dined on a cake of Burnt Umber;
    When he said, "It's enough!" they only said, "Stuff!
    You amazing old man on the Humber!"

  

    There was an old man in a barge,
    Whose nose was exceedingly large;
    But in fishing by night, it supported a light,
    Which helped that old man in a barge.

  

    There was an old man of Dunrose;
    A parrot seized hold of his nose.
    When he grew melancholy, they said, "His name's Polly,"
    Which soothed that old man of Dunrose.

  

    There was an old man of Toulouse
    Who purchased a new pair of shoes;
    When they asked, "Are they pleasant?" he said, "Not at present!"
    That turbid old man of Toulouse.

  

    There was an old person of Bree,
    Who frequented the depths of the sea;
    She nurs'd the small fishes, and washed all the dishes,
    And swam back again into Bree.

  

    There was an old person of Bromley,
    Whose ways were not cheerful or comely;
    He sate in the dust, eating spiders and crust,
    That unpleasing old person of Bromley.

  

    There was an old person of Shields,
    Who frequented the vallies and fields;
    All the mice and the cats, and the snakes and the rats,
    Followed after that person of Shields.

  

    There was an old man of Dunluce,
    Who went out to sea on a goose:
    When he'd gone out a mile, he observ'd with a smile,
    "It is time to return to Dunluce."

  

    There was an old man of Dee-side
    Whose hat was exceedingly wide,
    But he said, "Do not fail, if it happen to hail,
    To come under my hat at Dee-side!"

  

    There was an old person in black,
    A Grasshopper jumped on his back;
    When it chirped in his ear, he was smitten with fear,
    That helpless old person in black.

  

    There was an old man of the Dargle
    Who purchased six barrels of Gargle;
    For he said, "I'll sit still, and will roll them down hill,
    For the fish in the depths of the Dargle."

  

    There was an old person of Pinner,
    As thin as a lath, if not thinner;
    They dressed him in white, and roll'd him up tight,
    That elastic old person of Pinner.

  

    There was an old person of China,
    Whose daughters were Jiska and Dinah,
    Amelia and Fluffy, Olivia and Chuffy,
    And all of them settled in China.

  

    There was an old man in a Marsh,
    Whose manners were futile and harsh;
    He sate on a log, and sang songs to a frog,
    That instructive old man in a Marsh.

  

    There was an old person of Brill,
    Who purchased a shirt with a frill;
    But they said, "Don't you wish, you mayn't look like a fish,
    You obsequious old person of Brill?"

  

    There was an old person of Wick,
    Who said, "Tick-a-Tick, Tick-a-Tick;
    Chickabee, Chickabaw." And he said nothing more,
    That laconic old person of Wick.

  

    There was an old man at a Station,
    Who made a promiscuous oration;
    But they said, "Take some snuff!--You have talk'd quite enough,
    You afflicting old man at a Station!"

  

    There was an old man of Three Bridges,
    Whose mind was distracted by midges,
    He sate on a wheel, eating underdone veal,
    Which relieved that old man of Three Bridges.

  

    There was an old man of Hong Kong,
    Who never did anything wrong;
    He lay on his back, with his head in a sack,
    That innocuous old man of Hong Kong.

  

    There was a young person in green,
    Who seldom was fit to be seen;
    She wore a long shawl, over bonnet and all,
    Which enveloped that person in green.

  

    There was an old person of Fife,
    Who was greatly disgusted with life;
    They sang him a ballad, and fed him on salad,
    Which cured that old person of Fife.

  

    There was an old man who screamed out
    Whenever they knocked him about:
    So they took off his boots, and fed him with fruits,
    And continued to knock him about.

  

    There was a young lady in white,
    Who looked out at the depths of the night;
    But the birds of the air, filled her heart with despair,
    And oppressed that young lady in white.

  

    There was an old person of Slough,
    Who danced at the end of a bough;
    But they said, "If you sneeze, you might damage the trees,
    You imprudent old person of Slough."

  

    There was an old person of Down,
    Whose face was adorned with a frown;
    When he opened the door, for one minute or more,
    He alarmed all the people of Down.

  

    There was a young person in red,
    Who carefully covered her head,
    With a bonnet of leather, and three lines of feather,
    Besides some long ribands of red.

  

    There was an old person of Hove,
    Who frequented the depths of a grove;
    Where he studied his books, with the wrens and the rooks,
    That tranquil old person of Hove.

  

    There was a young person in pink,
    Who called out for something to drink;
    But they said, "O my daughter, there's nothing but water!"
    Which vexed that young person in pink.

  

    There was an old lady of France,
    Who taught little ducklings to dance;
    When she said, "Tick-a-tack!" they only said, "Quack!"
    Which grieved that old lady of France.

  

    There was an old person of Putney,
    Whose food was roast spiders and chutney,
    Which he took with his tea, within sight of the sea,
    That romantic old person of Putney.

  

    There was an old person of Loo,
    Who said, "What on earth shall I do?"
    When they said, "Go away!" she continued to stay,
    That vexatious old person of Loo.

  

    There was an old person of Woking,
    Whose mind was perverse and provoking;
    He sate on a rail, with his head in a pail,
    That illusive old person of Woking.

  

    There was an old person of Dean
    Who dined on one pea, and one bean;
    For he said, "More than that, would make me too fat,"
    That cautious old person of Dean.

  

    There was a young lady in blue,
    Who said, "Is it you? Is it you?"
    When they said, "Yes, it is," she replied only, "Whizz!"
    That ungracious young lady in blue.

  

    There was an old Man in a Garden,
    Who always begged every one's pardon;
    When they asked him, "What for?" he replied, "You're a bore!
    And I trust you'll go out of my garden."

  

    There was an old person of Pisa,
    Whose daughters did nothing to please her;
    She dressed them in gray, and banged them all day,
    Round the walls of the city of Pisa.

  

    There was an old person of Florence,
    Who held mutton chops in abhorrence;
    He purchased a Bustard, and fried him in Mustard,
    Which choked that old person of Florence.

  

    There was an old person of Sheen,
    Whose expression was calm and serene;
    He sate in the water, and drank bottled porter,
    That placid old person of Sheen.

  

    There was an old person of Ware,
    Who rode on the back of a bear;
    When they ask'd, "Does it trot?" he said, "Certainly not!
    He's a Moppsikon Floppsikon bear!"

  

    There was a young person of Janina,
    Whose uncle was always a fanning her;
    When he fanned off her head, she smiled sweetly, and said,
    "You propitious old person of Janina!"

  

    There was an old man of Cashmere,
    Whose movements were scroobious and queer;
    Being slender and tall, he looked over a wall,
    And perceived two fat ducks of Cashmere.

  

    There was an old person of Cassel,
    Whose nose finished off in a tassel;
    But they call'd out, "Oh well! don't it look like a bell!"
    Which perplexed that old person of Cassel.

  

    There was an old person of Pett,
    Who was partly consumed by regret;
    He sate in a cart, and ate cold apple tart,
    Which relieved that old person of Pett.

  

    There was an old man of Spithead,
    Who opened the window, and said,--
    "Fil-jomble, fil-jumble, fil-rumble-come-tumble!"
    That doubtful old man of Spithead.

  

    There was an old man on the Border,
    Who lived in the utmost disorder;
    He danced with the cat, and made tea in his hat,
    Which vexed all the folks on the Border.

  

    There was an old man of Dumbree,
    Who taught little owls to drink tea;
    For he said, "To eat mice is not proper or nice,"
    That amiable man of Dumbree.

  

    There was an old person of Filey,
    Of whom his acquaintance spoke highly;
    He danced perfectly well, to the sound of a bell,
    And delighted the people of Filey.

  

    There was an old man whose remorse
    Induced him to drink Caper Sauce;
    For they said, "If mixed up with some cold claret-cup,
    It will certainly soothe your remorse!"

  

    There was an old man of Ibreem,
    Who suddenly threaten'd to scream;
    But they said, "If you do, we will thump you quite blue,
    You disgusting old man of Ibreem!"

  

    There was an old person of Wilts,
    Who constantly walked upon stilts;
    He wreathed them with lilies and daffy-down-dillies,
    That elegant person of Wilts.

  

    There was an old person of Grange,
    Whose manners were scroobious and strange;
    He sailed to St. Blubb in a waterproof tub,
    That aquatic old person of Grange.

  

    There was an old person of Newry,
    Whose manners were tinctured with fury;
    He tore all the rugs, and broke all the jugs,
    Within twenty miles' distance of Newry.

  

    There was an old man of Dumblane,
    Who greatly resembled a crane;
    But they said, "Is it wrong, since your legs are so long,
    To request you won't stay in Dumblane?"

  

    There was an old man of Port Grigor,
    Whose actions were noted for vigour;
    He stood on his head till his waistcoat turned red,
    That eclectic old man of Port Grigor.

  

    There was an old man of El Hums,
    Who lived upon nothing but crumbs,
    Which he picked off the ground, with the other birds round,
    In the roads and the lanes of El Hums.

  

    There was an old man of West Dumpet,
    Who possessed a large nose like a trumpet;
    When he blew it aloud, it astonished the crowd,
    And was heard through the whole of West Dumpet.

  

    There was an old person of Sark,
    Who made an unpleasant remark;
    But they said, "Don't you see what a brute you must be,
    You obnoxious old person of Sark!"

  

    There was an old man whose despair
    Induced him to purchase a hare:
    Whereon one fine day he rode wholly away,
    Which partly assuaged his despair.

  

    There was an old person of Barnes,
    Whose garments were covered with darns;
    But they said, "Without doubt, you will soon wear them out,
    You luminous person of Barnes!"

  

    There was an old person of Nice,
    Whose associates were usually Geese.
    They walked out together in all sorts of weather,
    That affable person of Nice!

  

    There was a young lady of Greenwich,
    Whose garments were border'd with Spinach;
    But a large spotty Calf bit her shawl quite in half,
    Which alarmed that young lady of Greenwich.

  

    There was an old person of Cannes,
    Who purchased three fowls and a fan;
    Those she placed on a stool, and to make them feel cool
    She constantly fanned them at Cannes.

  

    There was an old person of Ickley,
    Who could not abide to ride quickly;
    He rode to Karnak on a tortoise's back,
    That moony old person of Ickley.

  

    There was an old person of Hyde,
    Who walked by the shore with his bride,
    Till a Crab who came near fill'd their bosoms with fear,
    And they said, "Would we'd never left Hyde!"

  

    There was an old person in gray,
    Whose feelings were tinged with dismay;
    She purchased two parrots, and fed them with carrots,
    Which pleased that old person in gray.

  

    There was an old man of Ancona,
    Who found a small dog with no owner,
    Which he took up and down all the streets of the town,
    That anxious old man of Ancona.

  

    There was an old person of Sestri,
    Who sate himself down in the vestry;
    When they said, "You are wrong!" he merely said "Bong!"
    That repulsive old person of Sestri.

  

    There was an old person of Blythe,
    Who cut up his meat with a scythe;
    When they said, "Well! I never!" he cried, "Scythes for ever!"
    That lively old person of Blythe.

  

    There was a young person of Ayr,
    Whose head was remarkably square:
    On the top, in fine weather, she wore a gold feather;
    Which dazzled the people of Ayr.

  

    There was an old person of Rimini,
    Who said, "Gracious! Goodness! O Gimini!"
    When they said, "Please be still!" she ran down a hill,
    And was never more heard of at Rimini.

  

    There is a young lady, whose nose,
    Continually prospers and grows;
    When it grew out of sight, she exclaimed in a fright,
    "Oh! Farewell to the end of my nose!"

  

    There was an old person of Ealing,
    Who was wholly devoid of good feeling;
    He drove a small gig, with three Owls and a Pig,
    Which distressed all the people of Ealing.

  

    There was an old man of Thames Ditton,
    Who called out for something to sit on;
    But they brought him a hat, and said, "Sit upon that,
    You abruptious old man of Thames Ditton!"

  

    There was an old person of Bray,
    Who sang through the whole of the day
    To his ducks and his pigs, whom he fed upon figs,
    That valuable person of Bray.

  

    There was a young person whose history
    Was always considered a mystery;
    She sate in a ditch, although no one knew which,
    And composed a small treatise on history.

  

    There was an old person of Bow,
    Whom nobody happened to know;
    So they gave him some soap, and said coldly, "We hope
    You will go back directly to Bow!"

  

    There was an old person of Rye,
    Who went up to town on a fly;
    But they said, "If you cough, you are safe to fall off!
    You abstemious old person of Rye!"

  

    There was an old person of Crowle,
    Who lived in the nest of an owl;
    When they screamed in the nest, he screamed out with the rest,
    That depressing old person of Crowle.

  

    There was an old Lady of Winchelsea,
    Who said, "If you needle or pin shall see
    On the floor of my room, sweep it up with the broom!"
    That exhaustive old Lady of Winchelsea!

  

    There was an old man in a tree,
    Whose whiskers were lovely to see;
    But the birds of the air pluck'd them perfectly bare,
    To make themselves nests in that tree.

  

    There was a young lady of Corsica,
    Who purchased a little brown saucy-cur;
    Which she fed upon ham, and hot raspberry jam,
    That expensive young lady of Corsica.

  

    There was a young lady of Firle,
    Whose hair was addicted to curl;
    It curled up a tree, and all over the sea,
    That expansive young lady of Firle.

  

    There was an old person of Stroud,
    Who was horribly jammed in a crowd;
    Some she slew with a kick, some she scrunched with a stick,
    That impulsive old person of Stroud.

  

    There was an old man of Boulak,
    Who sate on a Crocodile's back;
    But they said, "Towr'ds the night he may probably bite,
    Which might vex you, old man of Boulak!"

  

    There was an old person of Skye,
    Who waltz'd with a Bluebottle fly:
    They buzz'd a sweet tune, to the light of the moon,
    And entranced all the people of Skye.

  

    There was an old man of Blackheath,
    Whose head was adorned with a wreath
    Of lobsters and spice, pickled onions and mice,
    That uncommon old man of Blackheath.

  

    There was an old man, who when little
    Fell casually into a kettle;
    But, growing too stout, he could never get out,
    So he passed all his life in that kettle.

  

    There was an old person of Dundalk,
    Who tried to teach fishes to walk;
    When they tumbled down dead, he grew weary, and said,
    "I had better go back to Dundalk!"

  

    There was an old person of Shoreham,
    Whose habits were marked by decorum;
    He bought an Umbrella, and sate in the cellar,
    Which pleased all the people of Shoreham.

  

    There was an old person of Bar,
    Who passed all her life in a jar,
    Which she painted pea-green, to appear more serene,
    That placid old person of Bar.

  

    There was a young person of Kew,
    Whose virtues and vices were few;
    But with blamable haste she devoured some hot paste,
    Which destroyed that young person of Kew.

  

    There was an old person of Jodd,
    Whose ways were perplexing and odd;
    She purchased a whistle, and sate on a thistle,
    And squeaked to the people of Jodd.

  

    There was an old person of Bude,
    Whose deportment was vicious and crude;
    He wore a large ruff of pale straw-colored stuff,
    Which perplexed all the people of Bude.

  

    There was an old person of Brigg,
    Who purchased no end of a wig;
    So that only his nose, and the end of his toes,
    Could be seen when he walked about Brigg.

  

    There was an old man of Messina,
    Whose daughter was named Opsibeena;
    She wore a small wig, and rode out on a pig,
    To the perfect delight of Messina.




TWENTY-SIX NONSENSE RHYMES AND PICTURES.


  

    The Absolutely Abstemious Ass,
    who resided in a Barrel, and only lived on
    Soda Water and Pickled Cucumbers.

  

    The Bountiful Beetle,
    who always carried a Green Umbrella when it didn't rain,
    and left it at home when it did.

  

    The Comfortable Confidential Cow,
    who sate in her Red Morocco Arm Chair and
    toasted her own Bread at the parlour Fire.

  

    The Dolomphious Duck,
    who caught Spotted Frogs for her dinner
    with a Runcible Spoon.

  

    The Enthusiastic Elephant,
    who ferried himself across the water with the
    Kitchen Poker and a New pair of Ear-rings.

  

    The Fizzgiggious Fish,
    who always walked about upon Stilts,
    because he had no legs.

  

    The Good-natured Grey Gull,
    who carried the Old Owl, and his Crimson Carpet-bag,
    across the river, because he could not swim.

  

    The Hasty Higgeldipiggledy Hen,
    who went to market in a Blue Bonnet and Shawl,
    and bought a Fish for her Supper.

  

    The Inventive Indian,
    who caught a Remarkable Rabbit in a
    Stupendous Silver Spoon.

  

    The Judicious Jubilant Jay,
    who did up her Back Hair every morning with a Wreath of Roses,
    Three feathers, and a Gold Pin.

  

    The Kicking Kangaroo,
    who wore a Pale Pink Muslin dress
    with Blue spots.

  

    The Lively Learned Lobster,
    who mended his own Clothes with
    a Needle and Thread.

  

    The Melodious Meritorious Mouse,
    who played a merry minuet on the
    Piano-forte.

  

    The Nutritious Newt,
    who purchased a Round Plum-pudding
    for his grand-daughter.

  

    The Obsequious Ornamental Ostrich,
    who wore Boots to keep his
    feet quite dry.


    The Perpendicular Purple Polly,
    who read the Newspaper and ate Parsnip Pie
    with his Spectacles.

  

    The Queer Querulous Quail,
    who smoked a Pipe of tobacco on the top of
    a Tin Tea-kettle.

  

    The Rural Runcible Raven,
    who wore a White Wig and flew away
    with the Carpet Broom.

  

    The Scroobious Snake,
    who always wore a Hat on his Head, for
    fear he should bite anybody.

  

    The Tumultuous Tom-tommy Tortoise,
    who beat a Drum all day long in the
    middle of the wilderness.

  

    The Umbrageous Umbrella-maker,
    whose Face nobody ever saw, because it was
    always covered by his Umbrella.

  

    The Visibly Vicious Vulture,
    who wrote some Verses to a Veal-cutlet in a
    Volume bound in Vellum.

  

    The Worrying Whizzing Wasp,
    who stood on a Table, and played sweetly on a
    Flute with a Morning Cap.

  

    The Excellent Double-extra XX
    imbibing King Xerxes, who lived a
    long while ago.

  

    The Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo,
    whose Head was ever so much bigger than his
    Body, and whose Hat was rather small.

  

    The Zigzag Zealous Zebra,
    who carried five Monkeys on his back all
    the way to Jellibolee.



NONSENSE SONGS

Stories, Botany, and Alphabets

by

EDWARD LEAR







[Illustration]



CONTENTS

    NONSENSE SONGS.
        THE OWL AND THE PUSSY-CAT
        THE DUCK AND THE KANGAROO
        THE DADDY LONG-LEGS AND THE FLY
        THE JUMBLIES
        THE NUTCRACKERS AND THE SUGAR-TONGS
        CALICO PIE
        MR. AND MRS. SPIKKY SPARROW
        THE BROOM, THE SHOVEL, THE POKER, AND THE TONGS THE TABLE AND THE
        CHAIR

    NONSENSE STORIES.
        THE STORY OF THE FOUR LITTLE CHILDREN WHO WENT ROUND THE WORLD
        THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN FAMILIES OF THE LAKE PIPPLE-POPPLE

    NONSENSE COOKERY

    NONSENSE BOTANY

    NONSENSE ALPHABET, No. 1
      "  "  No. 2
      "  "  No. 3





NONSENSE SONGS.


THE OWL AND THE PUSSY-CAT.

[Illustration]

                    I.

    The Owl and the Pussy-Cat went to sea
      In a beautiful pea-green boat:
    They took some honey, and plenty of money
      Wrapped up in a five-pound note.
    The Owl looked up to the stars above,
      And sang to a small guitar,
   "O lovely Pussy, O Pussy, my love,
        What a beautiful Pussy you are,
          You are,
          You are!
      What a beautiful Pussy you are!"


                    II.

    Pussy said to the Owl, "You elegant fowl,
      How charmingly sweet you sing!
    Oh! let us be married; too long we have tarried:
      But what shall we do for a ring?"
    They sailed away, for a year and a day,
      To the land where the bong-tree grows;
    And there in a wood a Piggy-wig stood,
      With a ring at the end of his nose,
          His nose,
          His nose,
      With a ring at the end of his nose.


                    III.

    "Dear Pig, are you willing to sell for one shilling
      Your ring?" Said the Piggy, "I will."
    So they took it away, and were married next day
      By the Turkey who lives on the hill.
    They dined on mince and slices of quince,
      Which they ate with a runcible spoon;
    And hand in hand, on the edge of the sand,
      They danced by the light of the moon,
          The moon,
          The moon,
    They danced by the light of the moon.

[Illustration]




THE DUCK AND THE KANGAROO.

[Illustration]

                    I.

    Said the Duck to the Kangaroo,
       "Good gracious! how you hop
    Over the fields, and the water too,
        As if you never would stop!
    My life is a bore in this nasty pond;
    And I long to go out in the world beyond:
        I wish I could hop like you,"
        Said the Duck to the Kangaroo.


                    II.

   "Please give me a ride on your back,"
        Said the Duck to the Kangaroo:
   "I would sit quite still, and say nothing but 'Quack'
        The whole of the long day through;
    And we 'd go the Dee, and the Jelly Bo Lee,
    Over the land, and over the sea:
        Please take me a ride! oh, do!"
        Said the Duck to the Kangaroo.

              [Illustration]


                    III.

    Said the Kangaroo to the Duck,
       "This requires some little reflection.
    Perhaps, on the whole, it might bring me luck;
        And there seems but one objection;
    Which is, if you'll let me speak so bold,
    Your feet are unpleasantly wet and cold,
        And would probably give me the roo-
        Matiz," said the Kangaroo.

              [Illustration]


                    IV.

    Said the Duck, "As I sate on the rocks,
        I have thought over that completely;
    And I bought four pairs of worsted socks,
        Which fit my web-feet neatly;
    And, to keep out the cold, I've bought a cloak;
    And every day a cigar I'll smoke;
        All to follow my own dear true
        Love of a Kangaroo."


                    V.

    Said the Kangaroo, "I'm ready,
        All in the moonlight pale;
    But to balance me well, dear Duck, sit steady,
        And quite at the end of my tail."
    So away they went with a hop and a bound;
    And they hopped the whole world three times round.
        And who so happy, oh! who,
        As the Duck and the Kangaroo?

             [Illustration]




THE DADDY LONG-LEGS AND THE FLY.

[Illustration]

                    I.

    Once Mr. Daddy Long-legs,
        Dressed in brown and gray,
    Walked about upon the sands
        Upon a summer's day:
    And there among the pebbles,
        When the wind was rather cold,
    He met with Mr. Floppy Fly,
        All dressed in blue and gold;
    And, as it was too soon to dine,
    They drank some periwinkle-wine,
    And played an hour or two, or more,
    At battlecock and shuttledore.


                    II.

    Said Mr. Daddy Long-legs
        To Mr. Floppy Fly,
    "Why do you never come to court?
        I wish you 'd tell me why.
    All gold and shine, in dress so fine,
        You'd quite delight the court.
    Why do you never go at all?
        I really think you _ought_.
    And, if you went, you'd see such sights!
    Such rugs and jugs and candle-lights!
    And, more than all, the king and queen,--
    One in red, and one in green."


                    III.

    "O Mr. Daddy Long-legs!"
        Said Mr. Floppy Fly,
    "It's true I never go to court;
        And I will tell you why.
    If I had six long legs like yours,
        At once I'd go to court;
    But, oh! I can't, because _my_ legs
        Are so extremely short.
    And I'm afraid the king and queen
    (One in red, and one in green)
    Would say aloud, 'You are not fit,
    You Fly, to come to court a bit!'"


                    IV.

    "Oh, Mr. Daddy Long-legs!"
        Said Mr. Floppy Fly,
    "I wish you 'd sing one little song,
        One mumbian melody.
    You used to sing so awful well
        In former days gone by;
    But now you never sing at all:
        I wish you'd tell me why:
    For, if you would, the silvery sound
    Would please the shrimps and cockles round,
    And all the crabs would gladly come
    To hear you sing, 'Ah, Hum di Hum!'"


                    V.

    Said Mr. Daddy Long-legs,
       "I can never sing again;
    And, if you wish, I'll tell you why,
        Although it gives me pain.
    For years I cannot hum a bit,
        Or sing the smallest song;
    And this the dreadful reason is,--
        My legs are grown too long!
    My six long legs, all here and there,
    Oppress my bosom with despair;
    And, if I stand or lie or sit,
    I cannot sing one single bit!"


                    VI.

    So Mr. Daddy Long-legs
        And Mr. Floppy Fly
    Sat down in silence by the sea,
        And gazed upon the sky.
    They said, "This is a dreadful thing!
        The world has all gone wrong,
    Since one has legs too short by half,
        The other much too long.
    One never more can go to court,
    Because his legs have grown too short;
    The other cannot sing a song,
    Because his legs have grown too long!"


                    VII.

    Then Mr. Daddy Long-legs
        And Mr. Floppy Fly
    Rushed downward to the foamy sea
        With one sponge-taneous cry:
    And there they found a little boat,
        Whose sails were pink and gray;
    And off they sailed among the waves,
        Far and far away:
    They sailed across the silent main,
    And reached the great Gromboolian Plain;
    And there they play forevermore
    At battlecock and shuttledore.

[Illustration]




THE JUMBLIES.

[Illustration]

                    I.

    They went to sea in a sieve, they did;
        In a sieve they went to sea:
    In spite of all their friends could say,
    On a winter's morn, on a stormy day,
        In a sieve they went to sea.
    And when the sieve turned round and round,
    And every one cried, "You'll all be drowned!"
    They called aloud, "Our sieve ain't big;
    But we don't care a button, we don't care a fig:
        In a sieve we'll go to sea!"
             Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
             Their heads are green, and their hands are blue
        And they went to sea in a sieve.


                     II.

    They sailed away in a sieve, they did,
        In a sieve they sailed so fast,
    With only a beautiful pea-green veil
    Tied with a ribbon, by way of a sail,
        To a small tobacco-pipe mast.
    And every one said who saw them go,
   "Oh! won't they be soon upset, you know?
    For the sky is dark, and the voyage is long;
    And, happen what may, it's extremely wrong
        In a sieve to sail so fast."
            Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
            Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
        And they went to sea in a sieve.


                     III.

    The water it soon came in, it did;
        The water it soon came in:
    So, to keep them dry, they wrapped their feet
        In a pinky paper all folded neat;
    And they fastened it down with a pin.
    And they passed the night in a crockery-jar;
    And each of them said, "How wise we are!
    Though the sky be dark, and the voyage be long,
    Yet we never can think we were rash or wrong,
        While round in our sieve we spin."
            Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
            Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
        And they went to sea in a sieve.


                     IV.

    And all night long they sailed away;
        And when the sun went down,
    They whistled and warbled a moony song
        To the echoing sound of a coppery gong,
    In the shade of the mountains brown.
   "O Timballoo! How happy we are
    When we live in a sieve and a crockery-jar!
    And all night long, in the moonlight pale,
    We sail away with a pea-green sail
        In the shade of the mountains brown."
            Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
            Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
        And they went to sea in a sieve.


                     V.

    They sailed to the Western Sea, they did,--
        To a land all covered with trees:
    And they bought an owl, and a useful cart,
        And a pound of rice, and a cranberry-tart,
    And a hive of silvery bees;
    And they bought a pig, and some green jackdaws,
    And a lovely monkey with lollipop paws,
    And forty bottles of ring-bo-ree,
        And no end of Stilton cheese.
            Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
            Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
        And they went to sea in a sieve.


                     VI.

    And in twenty years they all came back,--
        In twenty years or more;
    And every one said, "How tall they've grown!
        For they've been to the Lakes, and the Torrible Zone,
    And the hills of the Chankly Bore."
    And they drank their health, and gave them a feast
    Of dumplings made of beautiful yeast;
    And every one said, "If we only live,
    We, too, will go to sea in a sieve,
        To the hills of the Chankly Bore."
            Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
            Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
        And they went to sea in a sieve.




THE NUTCRACKERS AND THE SUGAR-TONGS.

[Illustration]

                     I.

    The Nutcrackers sate by a plate on the table;
        The Sugar-tongs sate by a plate at his side;
    And the Nutcrackers said, "Don't you wish we were able
        Along the blue hills and green meadows to ride?
    Must we drag on this stupid existence forever,
        So idle and weary, so full of remorse,
    While every one else takes his pleasure, and never
        Seems happy unless he is riding a horse?


                     II.

    "Don't you think we could ride without being instructed,
        Without any saddle or bridle or spur?
    Our legs are so long, and so aptly constructed,
        I'm sure that an accident could not occur.
    Let us all of a sudden hop down from the table,
        And hustle downstairs, and each jump on a horse!
    Shall we try? Shall we go? Do you think we are able?"
        The Sugar-tongs answered distinctly, "Of course!"


                     III.

    So down the long staircase they hopped in a minute;
        The Sugar-tongs snapped, and the Crackers said "Crack!"
    The stable was open; the horses were in it:
        Each took out a pony, and jumped on his back.
    The Cat in a fright scrambled out of the doorway;
        The Mice tumbled out of a bundle of hay;
    The brown and white Rats, and the black ones from Norway,
        Screamed out, "They are taking the horses away!"


                     IV.

    The whole of the household was filled with amazement:
        The Cups and the Saucers danced madly about;
    The Plates and the Dishes looked out of the casement;
        The Salt-cellar stood on his head with a shout;
    The Spoons, with a clatter, looked out of the lattice;
        The Mustard-pot climbed up the gooseberry-pies;
    The Soup-ladle peeped through a heap of veal-patties,
        And squeaked with a ladle-like scream of surprise.


                     V.

    The Frying-pan said, "It's an awful delusion!"
        The Tea-kettle hissed, and grew black in the face;
    And they all rushed downstairs in the wildest confusion
        To see the great Nutcracker-Sugar-tong race.
    And out of the stable, with screamings and laughter
        (Their ponies were cream-colored, speckled with brown),
    The Nutcrackers first, and the Sugar-tongs after;
        Rode all round the yard, and then all round the town.


                     VI.

    They rode through the street, and they rode by the station;
        They galloped away to the beautiful shore;
    In silence they rode, and "made no observation,"
        Save this: "We will never go back any more!"
    And still you might hear, till they rode out of hearing,
        The Sugar-tongs snap, and the Crackers say "Crack!"
    Till, far in the distance their forms disappearing,
        They faded away; and they never came back!




CALICO PIE.

[Illustration]

                     I.

      Calico pie,
      The little birds fly
    Down to the calico-tree:
      Their wings were blue,
      And they sang "Tilly-loo!"
      Till away they flew;
        And they never came back to me!
          They never came back,
          They never came back,
        They never came back to me!


                     II.

      Calico jam,
      The little Fish swam
    Over the Syllabub Sea.
      He took off his hat
      To the Sole and the Sprat,
      And the Willeby-wat:
        But he never came back to me;
          He never came back,
          He never came back,
        He never came back to me.

               [Illustration]


                     III.

      Calico ban,
      The little Mice ran
    To be ready in time for tea;
      Flippity flup,
      They drank it all up,
      And danced in the cup:
        But they never came back to me;
          They never came back,
          They never came back,
        They never came back to me.

               [Illustration]


                     IV.

      Calico drum,
      The Grasshoppers come,
    The Butterfly, Beetle, and Bee,
      Over the ground,
      Around and round,
      With a hop and a bound;
        But they never came back,
          They never came back,
          They never came back.
        They never came back to me.

               [Illustration]




MR. AND MRS. SPIKKY SPARROW.

[Illustration]

                     I.

    On a little piece of wood
    Mr. Spikky Sparrow stood:
    Mrs. Sparrow sate close by,
    A-making of an insect-pie
    For her little children five,
    In the nest and all alive;
    Singing with a cheerful smile,
    To amuse them all the while,
       "Twikky wikky wikky wee,
        Wikky bikky twikky tee,
            Spikky bikky bee!"


                     II.

    Mrs. Spikky Sparrow said,
    "Spikky, darling! in my head
    Many thoughts of trouble come,
    Like to flies upon a plum.
    All last night, among the trees,
    I heard you cough, I heard you sneeze;
    And thought I, 'It's come to that
    Because he does not wear a hat!'
        Chippy wippy sikky tee,
        Bikky wikky tikky mee,
            Spikky chippy wee!


                     III.

    "Not that you are growing old;
    But the nights are growing cold.
    No one stays out all night long
    Without a hat: I'm sure it's wrong!"
    Mr. Spikky said, "How kind,
    Dear, you are, to speak your mind!
    All your life I wish you luck!
    You are, you are, a lovely duck!
        Witchy witchy witchy wee,
        Twitchy witchy witchy bee,
            Tikky tikky tee!


                     IV.

    "I was also sad, and thinking,
    When one day I saw you winking,
    And I heard you sniffle-snuffle,
    And I saw your feathers ruffle:
    To myself I sadly said,
    'She's neuralgia in her head!
    That dear head has nothing on it!
    Ought she not to wear a bonnet?'
        Witchy kitchy kitchy wee,
        Spikky wikky mikky bee,
            Chippy wippy chee!


                     V.

    "Let us both fly up to town:
    There I'll buy you such a gown!
    Which, completely in the fashion,
    You shall tie a sky-blue sash on;
    And a pair of slippers neat
    To fit your darling little feet,
    So that you will look and feel
    Quite galloobious and genteel.
        Jikky wikky bikky see,
        Chicky bikky wikky bee,
            Twicky witchy wee!"


                     VI.

    So they both to London went,
    Alighting on the Monument;
    Whence they flew down swiftly--pop!
    Into Moses' wholesale shop:
    There they bought a hat and bonnet,
    And a gown with spots upon it,
    A satin sash of Cloxam blue,
    And a pair of slippers too.
        Zikky wikky mikky bee,
        Witchy witchy mitchy kee,
            Sikky tikky wee!


                     VII.

    Then, when so completely dressed,
    Back they flew, and reached their nest.
    Their children cried, "O ma and pa!
    How truly beautiful you are!"
    Said they, "We trust that cold or pain
    We shall never feel again;
    While, perched on tree or house or steeple,
    We now shall look like other people.
        Witchy witchy witchy wee,
        Twikky mikky bikky bee,
            Zikky sikky tee!"

               [Illustration]




THE BROOM, THE SHOVEL, THE POKER, AND THE TONGS.

[Illustration]

                     I.

    The Broom and the Shovel, the Poker and Tongs,
      They all took a drive in the Park;
    And they each sang a song, ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
      Before they went back in the dark.
    Mr. Poker he sate quite upright in the coach;
      Mr. Tongs made a clatter and clash;
    Miss Shovel was dressed all in black (with a brooch);
      Mrs. Broom was in blue (with a sash).
        Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
        And they all sang a song.


                     II.

   "O Shovely so lovely!" the Poker he sang,
     "You have perfectly conquered my heart.
    Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong! If you're pleased with my song,
      I will feed you with cold apple-tart.
    When you scrape up the coals with a delicate sound,
      You enrapture my life with delight,
    Your nose is so shiny, your head is so round,
      And your shape is so slender and bright!
        Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
        Ain't you pleased with my song?"


                     III.

   "Alas! Mrs. Broom," sighed the Tongs in his song,
     "Oh! is it because I'm so thin,
    And my legs are so long,--ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!--
      That you don't care about me a pin?
    Ah! fairest of creatures, when sweeping the room,
      Ah! why don't you heed my complaint?
    Must you needs be so cruel, you beautiful Broom,
      Because you are covered with paint?
        Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
        You are certainly wrong."


                     IV.

    Mrs. Broom and Miss Shovel together they sang,
     "What nonsense you're singing to-day!"
    Said the Shovel, "I'll certainly hit you a bang!"
      Said the Broom, "And I'll sweep you away!"
    So the coachman drove homeward as fast as he could,
      Perceiving their anger with pain;
    But they put on the kettle, and little by little
      They all became happy again.
        Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
        There's an end of my song.




THE TABLE AND THE CHAIR.

[Illustration]

                     I.

    Said the Table to the Chair,
    "You can hardly be aware
    How I suffer from the heat
    And from chilblains on my feet.
    If we took a little walk,
    We might have a little talk;
    Pray let us take the air,"
    Said the Table to the Chair.


                     II.

    Said the Chair unto the Table,
    "Now, you _know_ we are not able:
    How foolishly you talk,
    When you know we _cannot_ walk!"
    Said the Table with a sigh,
    "It can do no harm to try.
    I've as many legs as you:
    Why can't we walk on two?"


                     III.

    So they both went slowly down,
    And walked about the town
    With a cheerful bumpy sound
    As they toddled round and round;
    And everybody cried,
    As they hastened to their side,
    "See! the Table and the Chair
    Have come out to take the air!"


                     IV.

    But in going down an alley,
    To a castle in a valley,
    They completely lost their way,
    And wandered all the day;
    Till, to see them safely back,
    They paid a Ducky-quack,
    And a Beetle, and a Mouse,
    Who took them to their house.

              [Illustration]


                     V.

    Then they whispered to each other,
    "O delightful little brother,
    What a lovely walk we've taken!
    Let us dine on beans and bacon."
    So the Ducky and the leetle
    Browny-Mousy and the Beetle
    Dined, and danced upon their heads
    Till they toddled to their beds.

              [Illustration]

       *        *        *        *        *




NONSENSE STORIES.


THE STORY OF THE FOUR LITTLE CHILDREN WHO WENT ROUND THE WORLD.

Once upon a time, a long while ago, there were four little people whose
names were

[Illustration]

VIOLET, SLINGSBY, GUY, and LIONEL;
and they all thought they should like to see the world. So they bought a
large boat to sail quite round the world by sea, and then they were to come
back on the other side by land. The boat was painted blue with green spots,
and the sail was yellow with red stripes: and, when they set off, they only
took a small Cat to steer and look after the boat, besides an elderly
Quangle-Wangle, who had to cook the dinner and make the tea; for which
purposes they took a large kettle.

[Illustration]

For the first ten days they sailed on beautifully, and found plenty to eat,
as there were lots of fish; and they had only to take them out of the sea
with a long spoon, when the Quangle-Wangle instantly cooked them; and the
Pussy-Cat was fed with the bones, with which she expressed herself pleased,
on the whole: so that all the party were very happy.

During the daytime, Violet chiefly occupied herself in putting salt water
into a churn; while her three brothers churned it violently, in the hope
that it would turn into butter, which it seldom if ever did; and in the
evening they all retired into the tea-kettle, where they all managed to
sleep very comfortably, while Pussy and the Quangle-Wangle managed the
boat.

[Illustration]

After a time, they saw some land at a distance; and, when they came to it,
they found it was an island made of water quite surrounded by earth.
Besides that, it was bordered by evanescent isthmuses, with a great
gulf-stream running about all over it; so that it was perfectly beautiful,
and contained only a single tree, 503 feet high.

When they had landed, they walked about, but found, to their great
surprise, that the island was quite full of veal-cutlets and
chocolate-drops, and nothing else. So they all climbed up the single high
tree to discover, if possible, if there were any people; but having
remained on the top of the tree for a week, and not seeing anybody, they
naturally concluded that there were no inhabitants; and accordingly, when
they came down, they loaded the boat with two thousand veal-cutlets and a
million of chocolate-drops; and these afforded them sustenance for more
than a month, during which time they pursued their voyage with the utmost
delight and apathy.

[Illustration]

After this they came to a shore where there were no less than sixty-five
great red parrots with blue tails, sitting on a rail all of a row, and all
fast asleep. And I am sorry to say that the Pussy-Cat and the
Quangle-Wangle crept softly, and bit off the tail-feathers of all the
sixty-five parrots; for which Violet reproved them both severely.

[Illustration]

Notwithstanding which, she proceeded to insert all the feathers--two
hundred and sixty in number--in her bonnet; thereby causing it to have a
lovely and glittering appearance, highly prepossessing and efficacious.

[Illustration]

The next thing that happened to them was in a narrow part of the sea, which
was so entirely full of fishes that the boat could go on no farther: so
they remained there about six weeks, till they had eaten nearly all the
fishes, which were soles, and all ready-cooked, and covered with
shrimp-sauce, so that there was no trouble whatever. And as the few fishes
who remained uneaten complained of the cold, as well as of the difficulty
they had in getting any sleep on account of the extreme noise made by the
arctic bears and the tropical turnspits, which frequented the neighborhood
in great numbers, Violet most amiably knitted a small woollen frock for
several of the fishes, and Slingsby administered some opium-drops to them;
through which kindness they became quite warm, and slept soundly.

[Illustration]

Then they came to a country which was wholly covered with immense
orange-trees of a vast size, and quite full of fruit. So they all landed,
taking with them the tea-kettle, intending to gather some of the oranges,
and place them in it. But, while they were busy about this, a most
dreadfully high wind rose, and blew out most of the parrot-tail feathers
from Violet's bonnet. That, however, was nothing compared with the calamity
of the oranges falling down on their heads by millions and millions, which
thumped and bumped and bumped and thumped them all so seriously, that they
were obliged to run as hard as they could for their lives; besides that the
sound of the oranges rattling on the tea-kettle was of the most fearful and
amazing nature.

[Illustration]

Nevertheless, they got safely to the boat, although considerably vexed and
hurt; and the Quangle-Wangle's right foot was so knocked about, that he had
to sit with his head in his slipper for at least a week.

[Illustration]

This event made them all for a time rather melancholy: and perhaps they
might never have become less so, had not Lionel, with a most praiseworthy
devotion and perseverance, continued to stand on one leg, and whistle to
them in a loud and lively manner; which diverted the whole party so
extremely that they gradually recovered their spirits, and agreed that
whenever they should reach home, they would subscribe towards a testimonial
to Lionel, entirely made of gingerbread and raspberries, as an earnest
token of their sincere and grateful infection.

[Illustration]

After sailing on calmly for several more days, they came to another
country, where they were much pleased and surprised to see a countless
multitude of white Mice with red eyes, all sitting in a great circle,
slowly eating custard-pudding with the most satisfactory and polite
demeanor.

[Illustration]

And as the four travellers were rather hungry, being tired of eating
nothing but soles and oranges for so long a period, they held a council as
to the propriety of asking the Mice for some of their pudding in a humble
and affecting manner, by which they could hardly be otherwise than
gratified. It was agreed, therefore, that Guy should go and ask the Mice,
which he immediately did; and the result was, that they gave a walnut-shell
only half full of custard diluted with water. Now, this displeased Guy, who
said, "Out of such a lot of pudding as you have got, I must say, you might
have spared a somewhat larger quantity." But no sooner had he finished
speaking than the Mice turned round at once, and sneezed at him in an
appalling and vindictive manner (and it is impossible to imagine a more
scroobious and unpleasant sound than that caused by the simultaneous
sneezing of many millions of angry Mice); so that Guy rushed back to the
boat, having first shied his cap into the middle of the custard-pudding, by
which means he completely spoiled the Mice's dinner.

[Illustration]

By and by the four children came to a country where there were no houses,
but only an incredibly innumerable number of large bottles without corks,
and of a dazzling and sweetly susceptible blue color. Each of these blue
bottles contained a Blue-Bottle-Fly; and all these interesting animals live
continually together in the most copious and rural harmony: nor perhaps in
many parts of the world is such perfect and abject happiness to be found.
Violet and Slingsby and Guy and Lionel were greatly struck with this
singular and instructive settlement; and, having previously asked
permission of the Blue-Bottle-Flies (which was most courteously granted),
the boat was drawn up to the shore, and they proceeded to make tea in front
of the bottles: but as they had no tea-leaves, they merely placed some
pebbles in the hot water; and the Quangle-Wangle played some tunes over it
on an accordion, by which, of course, tea was made directly, and of the
very best quality.

The four children then entered into conversation with the
Blue-Bottle-Flies, who discoursed in a placid and genteel manner, though
with a slightly buzzing accent, chiefly owing to the fact that they each
held a small clothes-brush between their teeth, which naturally occasioned
a fizzy, extraneous utterance.

"Why," said Violet, "would you kindly inform us, do you reside in bottles;
and, if in bottles at all, why not, rather, in green or purple, or, indeed,
in yellow bottles?"

To which questions a very aged Blue-Bottle-Fly answered, "We found the
bottles here all ready to live in; that is to say, our great-great-great-
great-great-grandfathers did: so we occupied them at once. And, when the
winter comes on, we turn the bottles upside down, and consequently rarely
feel the cold at all; and you know very well that this could not be the
case with bottles of any other color than blue."

"Of course it could not," said Slingsby. "But, if we may take the liberty
of inquiring, on what do you chiefly subsist?"

"Mainly on oyster-patties," said the Blue-Bottle-Fly; "and, when these are
scarce, on raspberry vinegar and Russian leather boiled down to a jelly."

"How delicious!" said Guy.

To which Lionel added, "Huzz!" And all the Blue-Bottle-Flies said, "Buzz!"

At this time, an elderly Fly said it was the hour for the evening-song to
be sung; and, on a signal being given, all the Blue-Bottle-Flies began to
buzz at once in a sumptuous and sonorous manner, the melodious and
mucilaginous sounds echoing all over the waters, and resounding across the
tumultuous tops of the transitory titmice upon the intervening and verdant
mountains with a serene and sickly suavity only known to the truly
virtuous. The Moon was shining slobaciously from the star-bespangled sky,
while her light irrigated the smooth and shiny sides and wings and backs of
the Blue-Bottle-Flies with a peculiar and trivial splendor, while all
Nature cheerfully responded to the cerulean and conspicuous circumstances.

In many long-after years, the four little travellers looked back to that
evening as one of the happiest in all their lives; and it was already past
midnight when--the sail of the boat having been set up by the
Quangle-Wangle, the tea-kettle and churn placed in their respective
positions, and the Pussy-Cat stationed at the helm--the children each took
a last and affectionate farewell of the Blue-Bottle-Flies, who walked down
in a body to the water's edge to see the travellers embark.

[Illustration]

As a token of parting respect and esteem, Violet made a courtesy quite down
to the ground, and stuck one of her few remaining parrot-tail feathers into
the back hair of the most pleasing of the Blue-Bottle-Flies; while
Slingsby, Guy, and Lionel offered them three small boxes, containing,
respectively, black pins, dried figs, and Epsom salts; and thus they left
that happy shore forever.

Overcome by their feelings, the four little travellers instantly jumped
into the tea-kettle, and fell fast asleep. But all along the shore, for
many hours, there was distinctly heard a sound of severely-suppressed sobs,
and of a vague multitude of living creatures using their
pocket-handkerchiefs in a subdued simultaneous snuffle, lingering sadly
along the walloping waves as the boat sailed farther and farther away from
the Land of the Happy Blue-Bottle-Flies.

Nothing particular occurred for some days after these events, except that,
as the travellers were passing a low tract of sand, they perceived an
unusual and gratifying spectacle; namely, a large number of Crabs and
Crawfish--perhaps six or seven hundred--sitting by the water-side, and
endeavoring to disentangle a vast heap of pale pink worsted, which they
moistened at intervals with a fluid composed of lavender-water and
white-wine negus.

"Can we be of any service to you, O crusty Crabbies?" said the four
children.

"Thank you kindly," said the Crabs consecutively. "We are trying to make
some worsted mittens, but do not know how."

On which Violet, who was perfectly acquainted with the art of
mitten-making, said to the Crabs, "Do your claws unscrew, or are they
fixtures?"

"They are all made to unscrew," said the Crabs; and forthwith they
deposited a great pile of claws close to the boat, with which Violet
uncombed all the pale pink worsted, and then made the loveliest mittens
with it you can imagine. These the Crabs, having resumed and screwed on
their claws, placed cheerfully upon their wrists, and walked away rapidly
on their hind-legs, warbling songs with a silvery voice and in a minor key.

After this, the four little people sailed on again till they came to a vast
and wide plain of astonishing dimensions, on which nothing whatever could
be discovered at first; but, as the travellers walked onward, there
appeared in the extreme and dim distance a single object, which on a nearer
approach, and on an accurately cutaneous inspection, seemed to be somebody
in a large white wig, sitting on an arm-chair made of sponge-cakes and
oyster-shells. "It does not quite look like a human being," said Violet
doubtfully; nor could they make out what it really was, till the
Quangle-Wangle (who had previously been round the world) exclaimed softly
in a loud voice, "It is the co-operative Cauliflower!"

[Illustration]

And so, in truth, it was: and they soon found that what they had taken for
an immense wig was in reality the top of the Cauliflower; and that he had
no feet at all, being able to walk tolerably well with a fluctuating and
graceful movement on a single cabbage-stalk,--an accomplishment which
naturally saved him the expense of stockings and shoes.

Presently, while the whole party from the boat was gazing at him with
mingled affection and disgust, he suddenly arose, and, in a somewhat
plumdomphious manner, hurried off towards the setting sun,--his steps
supported by two superincumbent confidential Cucumbers, and a large number
of Waterwagtails proceeding in advance of him by three and three in a
row,--till he finally disappeared on the brink of the western sky in a
crystal cloud of sudorific sand.

[Illustration]

So remarkable a sight, of course, impressed the four children very deeply;
and they returned immediately to their boat with a strong sense of
undeveloped asthma and a great appetite.

Shortly after this, the travellers were obliged to sail directly below some
high overhanging rocks, from the top of one of which a particularly odious
little boy, dressed in rose-colored knickerbockers, and with a pewter plate
upon his head, threw an enormous pumpkin at the boat, by which it was
instantly upset.

[Illustration]

But this upsetting was of no consequence, because all the party knew how to
swim very well: and, in fact, they preferred swimming about till after the
moon rose; when, the water growing chilly, they sponge-taneously entered
the boat. Meanwhile the Quangle-Wangle threw back the pumpkin with immense
force, so that it hit the rocks where the malicious little boy in
rose-colored knickerbockers was sitting; when, being quite full of
lucifer-matches, the pumpkin exploded surreptitiously into a thousand bits;
whereon the rocks instantly took fire, and the odious little boy became
unpleasantly hotter and hotter and hotter, till his knickerbockers were
turned quite green, and his nose was burnt off.

Two or three days after this had happened, they came to another place,
where they found nothing at all except some wide and deep pits full of
mulberry-jam. This is the property of the tiny, yellow-nosed Apes who
abound in these districts, and who store up the mulberry-jam for their food
in winter, when they mix it with pellucid pale periwinkle-soup, and serve
it out in wedgewood china-bowls, which grow freely all over that part of
the country. Only one of the yellow-nosed Apes was on the spot, and he was
fast asleep; yet the four travellers and the Quangle-Wangle and Pussy were
so terrified by the violence and sanguinary sound of his snoring, that they
merely took a small cupful of the jam, and returned to re-embark in their
boat without delay.

What was their horror on seeing the boat (including the churn and the
tea-kettle) in the mouth of an enormous Seeze Pyder, an aquatic and
ferocious creature truly dreadful to behold, and, happily, only met with in
those excessive longitudes! In a moment, the beautiful boat was bitten into
fifty-five thousand million hundred billion bits; and it instantly became
quite clear that Violet, Slingsby, Guy, and Lionel could no longer
preliminate their voyage by sea.

The four travellers were therefore obliged to resolve on pursuing their
wanderings by land: and, very fortunately, there happened to pass by at
that moment an elderly Rhinoceros, on which they seized; and, all four
mounting on his back,--the Quangle-Wangle sitting on his horn, and holding
on by his ears, and the Pussy-Cat swinging at the end of his tail,--they
set off, having only four small beans and three pounds of mashed potatoes
to last through their whole journey.

[Illustration]

They were, however, able to catch numbers of the chickens and turkeys and
other birds who incessantly alighted on the head of the Rhinoceros for the
purpose of gathering the seeds of the rhododendron-plants which grew
there; and these creatures they cooked in the most translucent and
satisfactory manner by means of a fire lighted on the end of the
Rhinoceros's back. A crowd of Kangaroos and gigantic Cranes accompanied
them, from feelings of curiosity and complacency; so that they were never
at a loss for company, and went onward, as it were, in a sort of profuse
and triumphant procession.

Thus in less than eighteen weeks they all arrived safely at home, where
they were received by their admiring relatives with joy tempered with
contempt, and where they finally resolved to carry out the rest of their
travelling-plans at some more favorable opportunity.

As for the Rhinoceros, in token of their grateful adherence, they had him
killed and stuffed directly, and then set him up outside the door of their
father's house as a diaphanous doorscraper.

[Illustration]




THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN FAMILIES OF
THE LAKE PIPPLE-POPPLE.


CHAPTER I.

INTRODUCTORY.

In former days,--that is to say, once upon a time,--there lived in the Land
of Gramble-Blamble seven families. They lived by the side of the great Lake
Pipple-Popple (one of the seven families, indeed, lived _in_ the lake), and
on the outskirts of the city of Tosh, which, excepting when it was quite
dark, they could see plainly. The names of all these places you have
probably heard of; and you have only not to look in your geography-books to
find out all about them.

Now, the seven families who lived on the borders of the great Lake
Pipple-Popple were as follows in the next chapter.


CHAPTER II.

THE SEVEN FAMILIES.

There was a family of two old Parrots and seven young Parrots.

[Illustration]

There was a family of two old Storks and seven young Storks.

[Illustration]

There was a family of two old Geese and seven young Geese.

[Illustration]

There was a family of two old Owls and seven young Owls.

[Illustration]

There was a family of two old Guinea Pigs and seven young Guinea Pigs.

[Illustration]

There was a family of two old Cats and seven young Cats.

[Illustration]

And there was a family of two old Fishes and seven young Fishes.

[Illustration]


CHAPTER III.

THE HABITS OF THE SEVEN FAMILIES.

The Parrots lived upon the Soffsky-Poffsky trees, which were beautiful to
behold, and covered with blue leaves; and they fed upon fruit, artichokes,
and striped beetles.

The Storks walked in and out of the Lake Pipple-Popple, and ate frogs for
breakfast, and buttered toast for tea; but on account of the extreme length
of their legs they could not sit down, and so they walked about
continually.

The Geese, having webs to their feet, caught quantities of flies, which
they ate for dinner.

The Owls anxiously looked after mice, which they caught, and made into
sago-puddings.

The Guinea Pigs toddled about the gardens, and ate lettuces and Cheshire
cheese.

The Cats sate still in the sunshine, and fed upon sponge biscuits.

The Fishes lived in the lake, and fed chiefly on boiled periwinkles.

And all these seven families lived together in the utmost fun and felicity.


CHAPTER IV.

THE CHILDREN OF THE SEVEN FAMILIES ARE SENT AWAY.

One day all the seven fathers and the seven mothers of the seven families
agreed that they would send their children out to see the world.

So they called them all together, and gave them each eight shillings and
some good advice, some chocolate-drops, and a small green morocco
pocket-book to set down their expenses in.

They then particularly entreated them not to quarrel; and all the parents
sent off their children with a parting injunction.

"If," said the old Parrots, "you find a cherry, do not fight about who
should have it."

"And," said the old Storks, "if you find a frog, divide it carefully into
seven bits, but on no account quarrel about it."

And the old Geese said to the seven young Geese, "Whatever you do, be sure
you do not touch a plum-pudding flea."

And the old Owls said, "If you find a mouse, tear him up into seven slices,
and eat him cheerfully, but without quarrelling."

And the old Guinea Pigs said, "Have a care that you eat your lettuces,
should you find any, not greedily, but calmly."

And the old Cats said, "Be particularly careful not to meddle with a
clangle-wangle if you should see one."

And the old Fishes said, "Above all things, avoid eating a blue boss-woss;
for they do not agree with fishes, and give them a pain in their toes."

So all the children of each family thanked their parents; and, making in
all forty-nine polite bows, they went into the wide world.



CHAPTER V.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG PARROTS.

The seven young Parrots had not gone far, when they saw a tree with a
single cherry on it, which the oldest Parrot picked instantly; but the
other six, being extremely hungry, tried to get it also. On which all the
seven began to fight; and they
scuffled,
     and huffled,
       and ruffled,
         and shuffled,
           and puffled,
             and muffled,
               and buffled,
                 and duffled,
                   and fluffled,
                     and guffled,
                       and bruffled,
                         and screamed, and shrieked, and squealed,
and squeaked, and clawed, and snapped, and bit, and bumped, and thumped,
and dumped, and flumped each other, till they were all torn into little
bits; and at last there was nothing left to record this painful incident
except the cherry and seven small green feathers.

And that was the vicious and voluble end of the seven young Parrots.

[Illustration]


CHAPTER VI.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG STORKS.

When the seven young Storks set out, they walked or flew for fourteen weeks
in a straight line, and for six weeks more in a crooked one; and after that
they ran as hard as they could for one hundred and eight miles; and after
that they stood still, and made a himmeltanious chatter-clatter-blattery
noise with their bills.

About the same time they perceived a large frog, spotted with green, and
with a sky-blue stripe under each ear.

So, being hungry, they immediately flew at him, and were going to divide
him into seven pieces, when they began to quarrel as to which of his legs
should be taken off first. One said this, and another said that; and while
they were all quarrelling, the frog hopped away. And when they saw that he
was gone, they began to
  chatter-clatter,
      blatter-platter,
          patter-blatter,
              matter-clatter,
                  flatter-quatter,
more violently than ever; and after they
had fought for a week, they pecked each other all to little pieces, so that
at last nothing was left of any of them except their bills.

And that was the end of the seven young Storks.

[Illustration]


CHAPTER VII.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG GEESE.

When the seven young Geese began to travel, they went over a large plain,
on which there was but one tree, and that was, a very bad one.

So four of them went up to the top of it, and looked about them; while the
other three waddled up and down, and repeated poetry, and their last six
lessons in arithmetic, geography, and cookery.

Presently they perceived, a long way off, an object of the most interesting
and obese appearance, having a perfectly round body exactly resembling a
boiled plum-pudding, with two little wings, and a beak, and three feathers
growing out of his head, and only one leg.

So, after a time, all the seven young Geese said to each other, "Beyond all
doubt this beast must be a Plum-pudding Flea!"

On which they incautiously began to sing aloud,

       "Plum-pudding Flea,
        Plum-pudding Flea,
        Wherever you be,
        Oh! come to our tree,
    And listen, oh! listen, oh! listen to me!"

And no sooner had they sung this verse than the Plum-pudding Flea began to
hop and skip on his one leg with the most dreadful velocity, and came
straight to the tree, where he stopped, and looked about him in a vacant
and voluminous manner.

On which the seven young Geese were greatly alarmed, and all of a
tremble-bemble: so one of them put out his long neck, and just touched him
with the tip of his bill; but no sooner had he done this than the
Plum-pudding Flea skipped and hopped about more and more, and higher and
higher; after which he opened his mouth, and, to the great surprise and
indignation of the seven Geese, began to bark so loudly and furiously and
terribly, that they were totally unable to bear the noise; and by degrees
every one of them suddenly tumbled down quite dead.

So that was the end of the seven young Geese.

[Illustration]


CHAPTER VIII.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG OWLS.

When the seven young Owls set out, they sate every now and then on the
branches of old trees, and never went far at one time.

And one night, when it was quite dark, they thought they heard a mouse;
but, as the gas-lamps were not lighted, they could not see him.

So they called out, "Is that a mouse?"

On which a mouse answered, "Squeaky-peeky-weeky! yes, it is!"

And immediately all the young Owls threw themselves off the tree, meaning
to alight on the ground; but they did not perceive that there was a large
well below them, into which they all fell superficially, and were every one
of them drowned in less than half a minute.

So that was the end of the seven young Owls.

[Illustration]


CHAPTER IX.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG GUINEA PIGS.

The seven young Guinea Pigs went into a garden full of goose-berry-bushes
and tiggory-trees, under one of which they fell asleep. When they awoke,
they saw a large lettuce, which had grown out of the ground while they had
been sleeping, and which had an immense number of green leaves. At which
they all exclaimed,--

   "Lettuce! O lettuce
    Let us, O let us,
    O lettuce-leaves,
    O let us leave this tree, and eat
    Lettuce, O let us, lettuce-leaves!"

And instantly the seven young Guinea Pigs rushed with such extreme force
against the lettuce-plant, and hit their heads so vividly against its
stalk, that the concussion brought on directly an incipient transitional
inflammation of their noses, which grew worse and worse and worse and
worse, till it incidentally killed them all seven.

And that was the end of the seven young Guinea Pigs.

[Illustration]


CHAPTER X.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG CATS.

The seven young Cats set off on their travels with great delight and
rapacity. But, on coming to the top of a high hill, they perceived at a
long distance off a Clangle-Wangle (or, as it is more properly written,
Clangel-Wangel); and, in spite of the warning they had had, they ran
straight up to it.

(Now, the Clangle-Wangle is a most dangerous and delusive beast, and by no
means commonly to be met with. They live in the water as well as on land,
using their long tail as a sail when in the former element. Their speed is
extreme; but their habits of life are domestic and superfluous, and their
general demeanor pensive and pellucid. On summer evenings, they may
sometimes be observed near the Lake Pipple-Popple, standing on their heads,
and humming their national melodies. They subsist entirely on vegetables,
excepting when they eat veal or mutton or pork or beef or fish or
saltpetre.)

The moment the Clangle-Wangle saw the seven young Cats approach, he ran
away; and as he ran straight on for four months, and the Cats, though they
continued to run, could never overtake him, they all gradually _died_ of
fatigue and exhaustion, and never afterwards recovered.

And this was the end of the seven young Cats.

[Illustration]


CHAPTER XI.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG FISHES.

The seven young Fishes swam across the Lake Pipple-Popple, and into the
river, and into the ocean; where, most unhappily for them, they saw, on the
fifteenth day of their travels, a bright-blue Boss-Woss, and instantly swam
after him. But the Blue Boss-Woss plunged into a
    perpendicular,
        spicular,
            orbicular,
                quadrangular,
                     circular depth of soft mud;
where, in fact, his house was.

And the seven young Fishes, swimming with great and uncomfortable velocity,
plunged also into the mud quite against their will, and, not being
accustomed to it, were all suffocated in a very short period.

And that was the end of the seven young Fishes.

[Illustration]


CHAPTER XII.

OF WHAT OCCURRED SUBSEQUENTLY.

After it was known that the

            seven young Parrots,
    and the seven young Storks,
    and the seven young Geese,
    and the seven young Owls,
    and the seven young Guinea Pigs,
    and the seven young Cats,
    and the seven young Fishes,

were all dead, then the Frog, and the Plum-pudding Flea, and the Mouse, and
the Clangle-Wangle, and the Blue Boss-Woss, all met together to rejoice
over their good fortune. And they collected the seven feathers of the seven
young Parrots, and the seven bills of the seven young Storks, and the
lettuce, and the cherry; and having placed the latter on the lettuce, and
the other objects in a circular arrangement at their base, they danced a
hornpipe round all these memorials until they were quite tired; after which
they gave a tea-party, and a garden-party, and a ball, and a concert, and
then returned to their respective homes full of joy and respect, sympathy,
satisfaction, and disgust.

[Illustration]


CHAPTER XIII.

OF WHAT BECAME OF THE PARENTS OF THE FORTY-NINE CHILDREN.

BUT when the two old Parrots,
     and the two old Storks,
     and the two old Geese,
     and the two old Owls,
     and the two old Guinea Pigs,
     and the two old Cats,
     and the two old Fishes,

became aware, by reading in the newspapers, of the calamitous extinction of
the whole of their families, they refused all further sustenance; and,
sending out to various shops, they purchased great quantities of Cayenne
pepper and brandy and vinegar and blue sealing-wax, besides seven immense
glass bottles with air-tight stoppers. And, having done this, they ate a
light supper of brown-bread and Jerusalem artichokes, and took an
affecting and formal leave of the whole of their acquaintance, which was
very numerous and distinguished and select and responsible and ridiculous.


CHAPTER XIV.

CONCLUSION.

And after this they filled the bottles with the ingredients for pickling,
and each couple jumped into a separate bottle; by which effort, of course,
they all died immediately, and became thoroughly pickled in a few minutes;
having previously made their wills (by the assistance of the most eminent
lawyers of the district), in which they left strict orders that the
stoppers of the seven bottles should be carefully sealed up with the blue
sealing-wax they had purchased; and that they themselves, in the bottles,
should be presented to the principal museum of the city of Tosh, to be
labelled with parchment or any other anti-congenial succedaneum, and to be
placed on a marble table with silver-gilt legs, for the daily inspection
and contemplation, and for the perpetual benefit, of the pusillanimous
public.

And if you ever happen to go to Gramble-Blamble, and visit that museum in
the city of Tosh, look for them on the ninety-eighth table in the four
hundred and twenty-seventh room of the right-hand corridor of the left wing
of the central quadrangle of that magnificent building; for, if you do not,
you certainly will not see them.

[Illustration]

       *        *        *        *        *




                 NONSENSE COOKERY.

Extract from "The Nonsense Gazette," for August, 1870.

"Our readers will be interested in the following communications from our
valued and learned contributor, Prof. Bosh, whose labors in the fields of
culinary and botanical science are so well known to all the world. The
first three articles richly merit to be added to the domestic cookery of
every family: those which follow claim the attention of all botanists; and
we are happy to be able, through Dr. Bosh's kindness, to present our
readers with illustrations of his discoveries. All the new flowers are
found in the Valley of Verrikwier, near the Lake of Oddgrow, and on the
summit of the Hill Orfeltugg."



THREE RECEIPTS FOR DOMESTIC COOKERY.


TO MAKE AN AMBLONGUS PIE.

Take 4 pounds (say 4-1/2 pounds) of fresh Amblongusses, and put them in a
small pipkin.

Cover them with water, and boil them for 8 hours incessantly; after which
add 2 pints of new milk, and proceed to boil for 4 hours more.

When you have ascertained that the Amblongusses are quite soft, take them
out, and place them in a wide pan, taking care to shake them well
previously.

Grate some nutmeg over the surface, and cover them carefully with powdered
gingerbread, curry-powder, and a sufficient quantity of Cayenne pepper.

Remove the pan into the next room, and place it on the floor. Bring it back
again, and let it simmer for three-quarters of an hour. Shake the pan
violently till all the Amblongusses have become of a pale purple color.

Then, having prepared the paste, insert the whole carefully; adding at the
same time a small pigeon, 2 slices of beef, 4 cauliflowers, and any number
of oysters.

Watch patiently till the crust begins to rise, and add a pinch of salt from
time to time.

Serve up in a clean dish, and throw the whole out of window as fast as
possible.


TO MAKE CRUMBOBBLIOUS CUTLETS.

Procure some strips of beef, and, having cut them into the smallest
possible slices, proceed to cut them still smaller,--eight, or perhaps
nine times.

When the whole is thus minced, brush it up hastily with a new
clothes-brush, and stir round rapidly and capriciously with a salt-spoon
or a soup-ladle.

Place the whole in a saucepan, and remove it to a sunny place,--say the
roof of the house, if free from sparrows or other birds,--and leave it
there for about a week.

At the end of that time add a little lavender, some oil of almonds, and a
few herring-bones; and then cover the whole with 4 gallons of clarified
Crumbobblious sauce, when it will be ready for use.

Cut it into the shape of ordinary cutlets, and serve up in a clean
table-cloth or dinner-napkin.


TO MAKE GOSKY PATTIES.

Take a pig three or four years of age, and tie him by the off hind-leg to a
post. Place 5 pounds of currants, 3 of sugar, 2 pecks of peas, 18 roast
chestnuts, a candle, and 6 bushels of turnips, within his reach: if he eats
these, constantly provide him with more.

Then procure some cream, some slices of Cheshire cheese, 4 quires of
foolscap paper, and a packet of black pins. Work the whole into a paste,
and spread it out to dry on a sheet of clean brown waterproof linen.

When the paste is perfectly dry, but not before, proceed to beat the pig
violently with the handle of a large broom. If he squeals, beat him again.

Visit the paste and beat the pig alternately for some days, and ascertain
if, at the end of that period, the whole is about to turn into Gosky
Patties.

If it does not then, it never will; and in that case the pig may be let
loose, and the whole process may be considered as finished.

       *        *        *        *        *




NONSENSE BOTANY.


[Illustration: Baccopipia Gracilis.]

[Illustration: Bottlephorkia Spoonifolia.]

[Illustration: Cockatooca Superba.]

[Illustration: Fishia Marina.]

[Illustration: Guittara Pensilis.]

[Illustration: Manypeeplia Upsidownia.]

[Illustration: Phattfacia Stupenda.]

[Illustration: Piggiwiggia Pyramidalis.]

[Illustration: Plumbunnia Nutritiosa.]

[Illustration: Pollybirdia Singularis.]

       *        *        *        *        *




NONSENSE ALPHABETS.


            A

     [Illustration]

    A was an ant
    Who seldom stood still,
    And who made a nice house
    In the side of a hill.

            a!
     Nice little ant!


            B

     [Illustration]

    B was a book
    With a binding of blue,
    And pictures and stories
    For me and for you.

            b!
     Nice little book!


            C

     [Illustration]

    C was a cat
    Who ran after a rat;
    But his courage did fail
    When she seized on his tail.

            c!
      Crafty old cat!


            D

     [Illustration]

    D was a duck
    With spots on his back,
    Who lived in the water,
    And always said "Quack!"

            d!
      Dear little duck!


            E

     [Illustration]

    E was an elephant,
    Stately and wise:
    He had tusks and a trunk,
    And two queer little eyes.

            e!
    Oh, what funny small eyes!


            F

     [Illustration]


    F was a fish
    Who was caught in a net;
    But he got out again,
    And is quite alive yet.

            f!
      Lively young fish!


            G

     [Illustration]

    G was a goat
    Who was spotted with brown:
    When he did not lie still
    He walked up and down.

            g!
      Good little goat!


            H

     [Illustration]

    H was a hat
    Which was all on one side;
    Its crown was too high,
    And its brim was too wide.

            h!
      Oh, what a hat!


            I

     [Illustration]

    I was some ice
    So white and so nice,
    But which nobody tasted;
    And so it was wasted.

            i!
    All that good ice!


            J

     [Illustration]


    J was a jackdaw
    Who hopped up and down
    In the principal street
    Of a neighboring town.

            j!
     All through the town!


            K

     [Illustration]

    K was a kite
    Which flew out of sight,
    Above houses so high,
    Quite into the sky.

            k
       Fly away, kite!


            L

     [Illustration]

    L was a light
    Which burned all the night,
    And lighted the gloom
    Of a very dark room.

            l!
     Useful nice light!


            M

     [Illustration]

    M was a mill
    Which stood on a hill,
    And turned round and round
    With a loud hummy sound.

            m!
      Useful old mill!


            N

     [Illustration]

    N was a net
    Which was thrown in the sea
    To catch fish for dinner
    For you and for me.

            n!
      Nice little net!


            O

     [Illustration]

    O was an orange
    So yellow and round:
    When it fell off the tree,
    It fell down to the ground.

            o!
    Down to the ground!


            P

     [Illustration]

    P was a pig,
    Who was not very big;
    But his tail was too curly,
    And that made him surly.

            p!
    Cross little pig!


            Q

     [Illustration]

    Q was a quail
    With a very short tail;
    And he fed upon corn
    In the evening and morn.

            q!
    Quaint little quail!


            R

     [Illustration]

    R was a rabbit,
    Who had a bad habit
    Of eating the flowers
    In gardens and bowers.

            r!
     Naughty fat rabbit!


            S

     [Illustration]

    S was the sugar-tongs,
    Nippity-nee,
    To take up the sugar
    To put in our tea.

            s!
       Nippity-nee!


            T

     [Illustration]

    T was a tortoise,
    All yellow and black:
    He walked slowly away,
    And he never came back.

            t!
    Torty never came back!


            U

     [Illustration]

    U was an urn
    All polished and bright,
    And full of hot water
    At noon and at night.

            u!
     Useful old urn!


            V

     [Illustration]

    V was a villa
    Which stood on a hill,
    By the side of a river,
    And close to a mill.

            v!
    Nice little villa!


            W

     [Illustration]

    W was a whale
    With a very long tail,
    Whose movements were frantic
    Across the Atlantic.

            w!
   Monstrous old whale!


            X

     [Illustration]

    X was King Xerxes,
    Who, more than all Turks, is
    Renowned for his fashion
    Of fury and passion.

            x!
    Angry old Xerxes!


            Y

     [Illustration]

    Y was a yew,
    Which flourished and grew
    By a quiet abode
    Near the side of a road.

            y!
     Dark little yew!


            Z

     [Illustration]

    Z was some zinc,
    So shiny and bright,
    Which caused you to wink
    In the sun's merry light.

            z!
       Beautiful zinc!




            A

     [Illustration]

            a

    A was once an apple-pie,
        Pidy,
        Widy,
        Tidy,
        Pidy,
      Nice insidy,
      Apple-pie!


            B

     [Illustration]

            b

    B was once a little bear,
        Beary,
        Wary,
        Hairy,
        Beary,
      Taky cary,
      Little bear!


            C

     [Illustration]

            c

    C was once a little cake,
        Caky,
        Baky,
        Maky,
        Caky,
      Taky caky,
      Little cake!


            D

     [Illustration]

            d

    D was once a little doll,
        Dolly,
        Molly,
        Polly,
        Nolly,
      Nursy dolly,
      Little doll!


            E

     [Illustration]

            e

    E was once a little eel,
        Eely,
        Weely,
        Peely,
        Eely,
      Twirly, tweely,
        Little eel!



            F

     [Illustration]

            f

    F was once a little fish,
        Fishy,
        Wishy,
        Squishy,
        Fishy,
      In a dishy,
      Little fish!


            G

     [Illustration]

            g

    G was once a little goose,
        Goosy,
        Moosy,
        Boosey,
        Goosey,
      Waddly-woosy,
      Little goose!


            H

     [Illustration]

            h

    H was once a little hen,
        Henny,
        Chenny,
        Tenny,
        Henny.
      Eggsy-any,
      Little hen?


            I

     [Illustration]

            i

    I was once a bottle of ink
        Inky,
        Dinky,
        Thinky,
        Inky,
      Blacky minky,
      Bottle of ink!


            J

     [Illustration]

            j

    J was once a jar of jam,
        Jammy,
        Mammy,
        Clammy,
        Jammy,
      Sweety, swammy,
        Jar of jam!


            K

     [Illustration]

            k

    K was once a little kite,
        Kity,
        Whity,
        Flighty,
        Kity,
      Out of sighty,
        Little kite!


            L

     [Illustration]

            l

    L was once a little lark,
        Larky,
        Marky,
        Harky,
        Larky,
      In the parky,
      Little lark!


            M

     [Illustration]

            m

    M was once a little mouse,
        Mousy,
        Bousy,
        Sousy,
        Mousy,
      In the housy,
      Little mouse!


            N

     [Illustration]

            n

    N was once a little needle,
        Needly,
        Tweedly,
        Threedly,
        Needly,
      Wisky, wheedly,
      Little needle!


            O

     [Illustration]

            o

    O was once a little owl,
        Owly,
        Prowly,
        Howly,
        Owly,
      Browny fowly,
      Little owl!


            P

     [Illustration]

            p

    P was once a little pump,
        Pumpy,
        Slumpy,
        Flumpy,
        Pumpy,
      Dumpy, thumpy,
        Little pump!


            Q

     [Illustration]

            q

    Q was once a little quail,
        Quaily,
        Faily,
        Daily,
        Quaily,
      Stumpy-taily,
      Little quail!


            R

     [Illustration]

            r

    R was once a little rose,
        Rosy,
        Posy,
        Nosy,
        Rosy,
     Blows-y, grows-y,
       Little rose!


            S

     [Illustration]

            s

    S was once a little shrimp,
        Shrimpy,
        Nimpy,
        Flimpy,
        Shrimpy.
     Jumpy, jimpy,
      Little shrimp!


            T

     [Illustration]

            t

    T was once a little thrush,
        Thrushy,
        Hushy,
        Bushy,
        Thrushy,
      Flitty, flushy,
      Little thrush!


            U

     [Illustration]

            u

    U was once a little urn,
           Urny,
           Burny,
           Turny,
           Urny,
      Bubbly, burny,
        Little urn!


            V

     [Illustration]

            v

    V was once a little vine,
        Viny,
        Winy,
        Twiny,
        Viny,
      Twisty-twiny,
      Little vine!


            W

     [Illustration]

            w

    W was once a whale,
        Whaly,
        Scaly,
        Shaly,
        Whaly,
      Tumbly-taily,
      Mighty whale!


            X

     [Illustration]

            x

    X was once a great king Xerxes,
          Xerxy,
          Perxy,
          Turxy,
          Xerxy,
        Linxy, lurxy,
      Great King Xerxes!


            Y

     [Illustration]

            y

    Y was once a little yew,
        Yewdy,
        Fewdy,
        Crudy,
        Yewdy,
    Growdy, grewdy,
      Little yew!


            Z

     [Illustration]

            z

    Z was once a piece of zinc,
        Tinky,
        Winky,
        Blinky,
        Tinky,
      Tinkly minky,
      Piece of zinc!




            A

     [Illustration]

    A was an ape,
    Who stole some white tape,
    And tied up his toes
    In four beautiful bows.

            a!

    Funny old ape!


            B

     [Illustration]

    B was a bat,
    Who slept all the day,
    And fluttered about
    When the sun went away.

            b!

    Brown little bat!


            C

     [Illustration]

    C was a camel:
    You rode on his hump;
    And if you fell off,
    You came down such a bump!


            c!

    What a high camel!


            D

     [Illustration]

    D was a dove,
    Who lived in a wood,
    With such pretty soft wings,
    And so gentle and good!

            d!

    Dear little dove!


            E

     [Illustration]

    E was an eagle,
    Who sat on the rocks,
    And looked down on the fields
    And the-far-away flocks.

            e!

    Beautiful eagle!


            F

     [Illustration]

    F was a fan
    Made of beautiful stuff;
    And when it was used,
    It went puffy-puff-puff!

            f!

    Nice little fan!


            G

     [Illustration]

    G was a gooseberry,
    Perfectly red;
    To be made into jam,
    And eaten with bread.

            g!

    Gooseberry red!


            H

     [Illustration]

    H was a heron,
    Who stood in a stream:
    The length of his neck
    And his legs was extreme.

            h!

    Long-legged heron!


            I

     [Illustration]

    I was an inkstand,
    Which stood on a table,
    With a nice pen to write with
    When we are able.

            i!

    Neat little inkstand!


            J

     [Illustration]

    J was a jug,
    So pretty and white,
    With fresh water in it
    At morning and night.

            j!

    Nice little jug!


            K

     [Illustration]

    K was a kingfisher:
    Quickly he flew,
    So bright and so pretty!--
    Green, purple, and blue.

            k!

    Kingfisher blue!

            L

     [Illustration]

    L was a lily,
    So white and so sweet!
    To see it and smell it
    Was quite a nice treat.

            l!

    Beautiful lily!


            M

     [Illustration]

    M was a man,
    Who walked round and round;
    And he wore a long coat
    That came down to the ground.

            m!

    Funny old man!


            N

     [Illustration]

    N was a nut
    So smooth and so brown!
    And when it was ripe,
    It fell tumble-dum-down.

            n!

    Nice little nut!


            O

     [Illustration]

    O was an oyster,
    Who lived in his shell:
    If you let him alone,
    He felt perfectly well.

            o!

    Open-mouthed oyster!


            P

     [Illustration]

    P was a polly,
    All red, blue, and green,--
    The most beautiful polly
    That ever was seen.

            p!

    Poor little polly!


            Q

     [Illustration]

    Q was a quill
    Made into a pen;
    But I do not know where,
    And I cannot say when.

            q!

    Nice little quill!


            R

     [Illustration]

    R was a rattlesnake,
    Rolled up so tight,
    Those who saw him ran quickly,
    For fear he should bite.

            r!

    Rattlesnake bite!


            S

     [Illustration]

    S was a screw
    To screw down a box;
    And then it was fastened
    Without any locks.

            s!

    Valuable screw!


            T

     [Illustration]

    T was a thimble,
    Of silver so bright!
    When placed on the finger,
    It fitted so tight!

            t!

    Nice little thimble!


            U

     [Illustration]

    U was an upper-coat,
    Woolly and warm,
    To wear over all
    In the snow or the storm.

            u!

    What a nice upper-coat!


            V

     [Illustration]

    V was a veil
    With a border upon it,
    And a ribbon to tie it
    All round a pink bonnet.

            v!

    Pretty green veil!


            W

     [Illustration]

    W was a watch,
    Where, in letters of gold,
    The hour of the day
    You might always behold.

            w!

    Beautiful watch!


            X

     [Illustration]

    X was King Xerxes,
    Who wore on his head
    A mighty large turban,
    Green, yellow, and red.

            x!

    Look at King Xerxes!


            Y

     [Illustration]

    Y was a yak,
    From the land of Thibet:
    Except his white tail,
    He was all black as jet.

            y!

    Look at the yak!


            Z

     [Illustration]

    Z was a zebra,
    All striped white and black;
    And if he were tame,
    You might ride on his back.

            z!

    Pretty striped zebra!

LAUGHABLE LYRICS

A Fourth Book of Nonsense Poems, Songs, Botany, Music, etc.

by

EDWARD LEAR

Author of the _Book of Nonsense_, _More Nonsense_,
_Nonsense Songs, Stories_, etc., etc.

With all the Original Illustrations







[Illustration]




CONTENTS

    LAUGHABLE LYRICS
        THE DONG WITH A LUMINOUS NOSE
        THE TWO OLD BACHELORS
        THE PELICAN CHORUS
        THE YONGHY-BONGHY-B
        THE POBBLE WHO HAS NO TOES
        THE NEW VESTMENTS
        MR. AND MRS. DISCOBBOLOS
        THE QUANGLE WANGLE'S HAT
        THE CUMMERBUND
        THE AKOND OF SWAT

    NONSENSE BOTANY

      " ALPHABET, No. 5
      "    "      No. 6





LAUGHABLE LYRICS.


THE DONG WITH A LUMINOUS NOSE.

[Illustration]

    When awful darkness and silence reign
    Over the great Gromboolian plain,
        Through the long, long wintry nights;
    When the angry breakers roar
    As they beat on the rocky shore;
        When Storm-clouds brood on the towering heights
    Of the Hills of the Chankly Bore,--

    Then, through the vast and gloomy dark
    There moves what seems a fiery spark,--
        A lonely spark with silvery rays
        Piercing the coal-black night,--
        A Meteor strange and bright:
    Hither and thither the vision strays,
        A single lurid light.

    Slowly it wanders, pauses, creeps,--
    Anon it sparkles, flashes, and leaps;
    And ever as onward it gleaming goes
    A light on the Bong-tree stems it throws.
    And those who watch at that midnight hour
    From Hall or Terrace or lofty Tower,
    Cry, as the wild light passes along,--
       "The Dong! the Dong!
      The wandering Dong through the forest goes!
        The Dong! the Dong!
      The Dong with a luminous Nose!"

        Long years ago
      The Dong was happy and gay,
    Till he fell in love with a Jumbly Girl
      Who came to those shores one day.
    For the Jumblies came in a sieve, they did,--
    Landing at eve near the Zemmery Fidd
        Where the Oblong Oysters grow,
      And the rocks are smooth and gray.
    And all the woods and the valleys rang
    With the Chorus they daily and nightly sang,--
        "_Far and few, far and few,
          Are the lands where the Jumblies live;
          Their heads are green, and their hands are blue,
          And they went to sea in a sieve._"

    Happily, happily passed those days!
      While the cheerful Jumblies staid;
        They danced in circlets all night long,
        To the plaintive pipe of the lively Dong,
      In moonlight, shine, or shade.
    For day and night he was always there
    By the side of the Jumbly Girl so fair,
    With her sky-blue hands and her sea-green hair;
    Till the morning came of that hateful day
    When the Jumblies sailed in their sieve away,
    And the Dong was left on the cruel shore
    Gazing, gazing for evermore,--
    Ever keeping his weary eyes on
    That pea-green sail on the far horizon,--
    Singing the Jumbly Chorus still
    As he sate all day on the grassy hill,--
        "_Far and few, far and few,
          Are the lands where the Jumblies live;
          Their heads are green, and their hands are blue,
          And they went to sea in a sieve_."

    But when the sun was low in the West,
        The Dong arose and said,--
    "What little sense I once possessed
        Has quite gone out of my head!"
    And since that day he wanders still
    By lake and forest, marsh and hill,
    Singing, "O somewhere, in valley or plain,
    Might I find my Jumbly Girl again!
    For ever I'll seek by lake and shore
    Till I find my Jumbly Girl once more!"

        Playing a pipe with silvery squeaks,
        Since then his Jumbly Girl he seeks;
        And because by night he could not see,
        He gathered the bark of the Twangum Tree
          On the flowery plain that grows.
          And he wove him a wondrous Nose,--
        A Nose as strange as a Nose could be!

    Of vast proportions and painted red,
    And tied with cords to the back of his head.
        In a hollow rounded space it ended
        With a luminous Lamp within suspended,
            All fenced about
            With a bandage stout
            To prevent the wind from blowing it out;
        And with holes all round to send the light
        In gleaming rays on the dismal night

    And now each night, and all night long,
    Over those plains still roams the Dong;
    And above the wail of the Chimp and Snipe
    You may hear the squeak of his plaintive pipe,
    While ever he seeks, but seeks in vain,
    To meet with his Jumbly Girl again;
    Lonely and wild, all night he goes,--
    The Dong with a luminous Nose!
    And all who watch at the midnight hour,
    From Hall or Terrace or lofty Tower,
    Cry, as they trace the Meteor bright,
    Moving along through the dreary night,--
       "This is the hour when forth he goes,
        The Dong with a luminous Nose!
        Yonder, over the plain he goes,--
            He goes!
            He goes,--
        The Dong with a luminous Nose!"




THE TWO OLD BACHELORS.

[Illustration]

Two old Bachelors were living in one house;
One caught a Muffin, the other caught a Mouse.
Said he who caught the Muffin to him who caught the Mouse,--
"This happens just in time! For we've nothing in the house,
Save a tiny slice of lemon and a teaspoonful of honey,
And what to do for dinner--since we haven't any money?
And what can we expect if we haven't any dinner,
But to lose our teeth and eyelashes and keep on growing thinner?"

Said he who caught the Mouse to him who caught the Muffin,--
"We might cook this little Mouse, if we only had some Stuffin'!
If we had but Sage and Onion we could do extremely well;
But how to get that Stuffin' it is difficult to tell!"

Those two old Bachelors ran quickly to the town
And asked for Sage and Onion as they wandered up and down;
They borrowed two large Onions, but no Sage was to be found
In the Shops, or in the Market, or in all the Gardens round.

But some one said, "A hill there is, a little to the north,
And to its purpledicular top a narrow way leads forth;
And there among the rugged rocks abides an ancient Sage,--
An earnest Man, who reads all day a most perplexing page.
Climb up, and seize him by the toes,--all studious as he sits,--
And pull him down, and chop him into endless little bits!
Then mix him with your Onion (cut up likewise into Scraps),--
When your Stuffin' will be ready, and very good--perhaps."

Those two old Bachelors without loss of time
The nearly purpledicular crags at once began to climb;
And at the top, among the rocks, all seated in a nook,
They saw that Sage a-reading of a most enormous book.

"You earnest Sage!" aloud they cried, "your book you've read enough in!
We wish to chop you into bits to mix you into Stuffin'!"

But that old Sage looked calmly up, and with his awful book,
At those two Bachelors' bald heads a certain aim he took;
And over Crag and precipice they rolled promiscuous down,--
At once they rolled, and never stopped in lane or field or town;
And when they reached their house, they found (besides their want
                                                          of Stuffin'),
The Mouse had fled--and, previously, had eaten up the Muffin.

They left their home in silence by the once convivial door;
And from that hour those Bachelors were never heard of more.


[Illustration: Sheet Music--The Pelicans]

[Illustration]

THE PELICAN CHORUS.

    King and Queen of the Pelicans we;
     No other Birds so grand we see!
    None but we have feet like fins!
    With lovely leathery throats and chins!
        Ploffskin, Pluffskin, Pelican jee!
        We think no Birds so happy as we!
        Plumpskin, Ploshkin, Pelican Jill!
        We think so then, and we thought so still

    We live on the Nile. The Nile we love.
    By night we sleep on the cliffs above;
    By day we fish, and at eve we stand
    On long bare islands of yellow sand.
    And when the sun sinks slowly down,
    And the great rock walls grow dark and brown,

    Where the purple river rolls fast and dim
    And the Ivory Ibis starlike skim,
    Wing to wing we dance around,
    Stamping our feet with a flumpy sound,
    Opening our mouths as Pelicans ought;
    And this is the song we nightly snort,--
        Ploffskin, Pluffskin, Pelican jee!
        We think no Birds so happy as we!
        Plumpskin, Ploshkin, Pelican jill!
        We think so then, and we thought so still!

    Last year came out our Daughter Dell,
    And all the Birds received her well.
    To do her honor a feast we made
    For every bird that can swim or wade,--
    Herons and Gulls, and Cormorants black,
    Cranes, and Flamingoes with scarlet back,
    Plovers and Storks, and Geese in clouds,
    Swans and Dilberry Ducks in crowds:
    Thousands of Birds in wondrous flight!
    They ate and drank and danced all night,
    And echoing back from the rocks you heard
    Multitude-echoes from Bird and Bird,--
        Ploffskin, Pluffskin, Pelican jee!
        We think no Birds so happy as we!
        Plumpskin, Ploshkin, Pelican jill!
        We think so then, and we thought so still!

    Yes, they came; and among the rest
    The King of the Cranes all grandly dressed.
    Such a lovely tail! Its feathers float
    Between the ends of his blue dress-coat;
    With pea-green trowsers all so neat,
    And a delicate frill to hide his feet
    (For though no one speaks of it, every one knows
    He has got no webs between his toes).

    As soon as he saw our Daughter Dell,
    In violent love that Crane King fell,--
    On seeing her waddling form so fair,
    With a wreath of shrimps in her short white hair.
    And before the end of the next long day
    Our Dell had given her heart away;
    For the King of the Cranes had won that heart
    With a Crocodile's egg and a large fish-tart.
    She vowed to marry the King of the Cranes,
    Leaving the Nile for stranger plains;
    And away they flew in a gathering crowd
    Of endless birds in a lengthening cloud.
        Ploffskin, Pluffskin, Pelican jee!
        We think no Birds so happy as we!
        Plumpskin, Ploshkin, Pelican jill!
        We think so then, and we thought so still!

    And far away in the twilight sky
    We heard them singing a lessening cry,--
    Farther and farther, till out of sight,
    And we stood alone in the silent night!
    Often since, in the nights of June,
    We sit on the sand and watch the moon,--

    She has gone to the great Gromboolian Plain,
    And we probably never shall meet again!
    Oft, in the long still nights of June,
    We sit on the rocks and watch the moon,--
    She dwells by the streams of the Chankly Bore.
    And we probably never shall see her more.
        Ploffskin, Pluffskin, Pelican jee!
        We think no Birds so happy as we!
        Plumpskin, Ploshkin, Pelican jill!
        We think so then, and we thought so still!


[Illustration: Sheet Music--The Yonghy Bonghy B]

THE COURTSHIP OF THE YONGHY-BONGHY-B.

[Illustration]

                    I.

    On the Coast of Coromandel
        Where the early pumpkins blow,
          In the middle of the woods
      Lived the Yonghy-Bonghy-B.
    Two old chairs, and half a candle,
    One old jug without a handle,--
          These were all his worldly goods:
          In the middle of the woods,
          These were all the worldly goods
      Of the Yonghy-Bonghy-B,
      Of the Yonghy-Bonghy B.


                    II.

    Once, among the Bong-trees walking
        Where the early pumpkins blow,
          To a little heap of stones
      Came the Yonghy-Bonghy-B.
    There he heard a Lady talking,
    To some milk-white Hens of Dorking,--
        "'Tis the Lady Jingly Jones!
          On that little heap of stones
          Sits the Lady Jingly Jones!"
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-B,
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-B.


                    III.

   "Lady Jingly! Lady Jingly!
         Sitting where the pumpkins blow,
           Will you come and be my wife?"
       Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-B.
   "I am tired of living singly--
    On this coast so wild and shingly,--
          I'm a-weary of my life;
          If you'll come and be my wife,
          Quite serene would be my life!"
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-B,
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-B.


                    IV.

    "On this Coast of Coromandel
         Shrimps and watercresses grow,
           Prawns are plentiful and cheap,"
       Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-B.
   "You shall have my chairs and candle,
    And my jug without a handle!
          Gaze upon the rolling deep
         (Fish is plentiful and cheap);
          As the sea, my love is deep!"
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-B,
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-B.


                    V.

    Lady Jingly answered sadly,
         And her tears began to flow,--
          "Your proposal comes too late,
       Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-B!
    I would be your wife most gladly!"
    (Here she twirled her fingers madly,)
         "But in England I've a mate!
          Yes! you've asked me far too late,
          For in England I've a mate,
      Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-B!
      Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-B!


                    VI.

   "Mr. Jones (his name is Handel,--
         Handel Jones, Esquire, & Co.)
           Dorking fowls delights to send,
       Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-B!
    Keep, oh, keep your chairs and candle,
    And your jug without a handle,--
          I can merely be your friend!
          Should my Jones more Dorkings send,
          I will give you three, my friend!
      Mr. Yonghy-Bongy-B!
      Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-B!


                    VII.

   "Though you've such a tiny body,
         And your head so large doth grow,--
           Though your hat may blow away,
       Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-B!
    Though you're such a Hoddy Doddy,
    Yet I wish that I could modi-
          fy the words I needs must say!
          Will you please to go away?
          That is all I have to say,
      Mr. Yongby-Bonghy-B!
      Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-B!"


                    VIII.

    Down the slippery slopes of Myrtle,
        Where the early pumpkins blow,
          To the calm and silent sea
       Fled the Yonghy-Bonghy-B.
    There, beyond the Bay of Gurtle,
    Lay a large and lively Turtle.
         "You're the Cove," he said, "for me;
          On your back beyond the sea,
          Turtle, you shall carry me!"
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-B,
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-B.

              [Illustration]


                    IX.

    Through the silent-roaring ocean
        Did the Turtle swiftly go;
          Holding fast upon his shell
      Rode the Yonghy-Bonghy-B.
    With a sad primaeval motion
    Towards the sunset isles of Boshen
          Still the Turtle bore him well.
          Holding fast upon his shell,
         "Lady Jingly Jones, farewell!"
      Sang the Yonghy-Bonghy-B,
      Sang the Yonghy-Bonghy-B.


                    X.

    From the Coast of Coromandel
        Did that Lady never go;
          On that heap of stones she mourns
      For the Yonghy-Bonghy-B.
    On that Coast of Coromandel,
    In his jug without a handle
        Still she weeps, and daily moans;
        On that little heap of stones
        To her Dorking Hens she moans,
          For the Yonghy-Bonghy-B,
          For the Yonghy-Bonghy-B.




THE POBBLE WHO HAS NO TOES.

[Illustration]

                    I.

    The Pobble who has no toes
        Had once as many as we;
    When they said, "Some day you may lose them all;"
        He replied, "Fish fiddle de-dee!"
    And his Aunt Jobiska made him drink
    Lavender water tinged with pink;
    For she said, "The World in general knows
    There's nothing so good for a Pobble's toes!"


                    II.

    The Pobble who has no toes,
        Swam across the Bristol Channel;
    But before he set out he wrapped his nose
        In a piece of scarlet flannel.
    For his Aunt Jobiska said, "No harm
    Can come to his toes if his nose is warm;
    And it's perfectly known that a Pobble's toes
    Are safe--provided he minds his nose."


                    III.

    The Pobble swam fast and well,
        And when boats or ships came near him,
    He tinkledy-binkledy-winkled a bell
        So that all the world could hear him.
    And all the Sailors and Admirals cried,
    When they saw him nearing the further side,--
   "He has gone to fish, for his Aunt Jobiska's
    Runcible Cat with crimson whiskers!"


                    IV.

    But before he touched the shore,--
        The shore of the Bristol Channel,
    A sea-green Porpoise carried away
        His wrapper of scarlet flannel.
    And when he came to observe his feet,
    Formerly garnished with toes so neat,
    His face at once became forlorn
    On perceiving that all his toes were gone!


                    V.

    And nobody ever knew,
        From that dark day to the present,
    Whoso had taken the Pobble's toes,
        In a manner so far from pleasant.
    Whether the shrimps or crawfish gray,
    Or crafty Mermaids stole them away,
    Nobody knew; and nobody knows
    How the Pobble was robbed of his twice five toes!


                    VI.

    The Pobble who has no toes
        Was placed in a friendly Bark,
    And they rowed him back, and carried him up
        To his Aunt Jobiska's Park.
    And she made him a feast, at his earnest wish,
    Of eggs and buttercups fried with fish;
    And she said, "It's a fact the whole world knows,
    That Pobbles are happier without their toes."




THE NEW VESTMENTS.

    There lived an old man in the Kingdom of Tess,
    Who invented a purely original dress;
    And when it was perfectly made and complete,
    He opened the door and walked into the street.

    By way of a hat he'd a loaf of Brown Bread,
    In the middle of which he inserted his head;
    His Shirt was made up of no end of dead Mice,
    The warmth of whose skins was quite fluffy and nice;
    His Drawers were of Rabbit-skins, so were his Shoes;
    His Stockings were skins, but it is not known whose;
    His Waistcoat and Trowsers were made of Pork Chops;
    His Buttons were Jujubes and Chocolate Drops;
    His Coat was all Pancakes, with Jam for a border,
    And a girdle of Biscuits to keep it in order;
    And he wore over all, as a screen from bad weather,
    A Cloak of green Cabbage-leaves stitched all together.

    He had walked a short way, when he heard a great noise,
    Of all sorts of Beasticles, Birdlings, and Boys;
    And from every long street and dark lane in the town
    Beasts, Birdies, and Boys in a tumult rushed down.
    Two Cows and a Calf ate his Cabbage-leaf Cloak;
    Four Apes seized his Girdle, which vanished like smoke;
    Three Kids ate up half of his Pancaky Coat,
    And the tails were devour'd by an ancient He Goat;
    An army of Dogs in a twinkling tore _up_ his
    Pork Waistcoat and Trowsers to give to their Puppies;
    And while they were growling, and mumbling the Chops,
    Ten Boys prigged the Jujubes and Chocolate Drops.
    He tried to run back to his house, but in vain,
    For scores of fat Pigs came again and again:
    They rushed out of stables and hovels and doors;
    They tore off his stockings, his shoes, and his drawers;
    And now from the housetops with screechings descend
    Striped, spotted, white, black, and gray Cats without end:
    They jumped on his shoulders and knocked off his hat,
    When Crows, Ducks, and Hens made a mincemeat of that;
    They speedily flew at his sleeves in a trice,
    And utterly tore up his Shirt of dead Mice;
    They swallowed the last of his Shirt with a squall,--
    Whereon he ran home with no clothes on at all.

    And he said to himself, as he bolted the door,
   "I will not wear a similar dress any more,
    Any more, any more, any more, never more!"




MR. AND MRS. DISCOBBOLOS.

                    I.

    Mr. and Mrs. Discobbolos
        Climbed to the top of a wall.
      And they sate to watch the sunset sky,
      And to hear the Nupiter Piffkin cry,
        And the Biscuit Buffalo call.
    They took up a roll and some Camomile tea,
    And both were as happy as happy could be,
            Till Mrs. Discobbolos said,--
           "Oh! W! X! Y! Z!
            It has just come into my head,
      Suppose we should happen to fall!!!!!
                        Darling Mr. Discobbolos!


                    II.

   "Suppose we should fall down flumpetty,
        Just like pieces of stone,
      On to the thorns, or into the moat,
      What would become of your new green coat?
        And might you not break a bone?
    It never occurred to me before,
    That perhaps we shall never go down any more!"
            And Mrs. Discobbolos said,
           "Oh! W! X! Y! Z!
            What put it into your head
      To climb up this wall, my own
                        Darling Mr. Discobbolos?"


                    III.

    Mr. Discobbolos answered,
       "At first it gave me pain,
      And I felt my ears turn perfectly pink
      When your exclamation made me think
        We might never get down again!
    But now I believe it is wiser far
    To remain for ever just where we are."
            And Mr. Discobbolos said,
           "Oh! W! X! Y! Z!
            It has just come into my head
      We shall never go down again,
                        Dearest Mrs. Discobbolos!"


                    IV.

    So Mr. and Mrs. Discobbolos
        Stood up and began to sing,--
     "Far away from hurry and strife
      Here we will pass the rest of life,
        Ding a dong, ding dong, ding!
    We want no knives nor forks nor chairs,
    No tables nor carpets nor household cares;
            From worry of life we've fled;
            Oh! W! X! Y! Z!
            There is no more trouble ahead,
      Sorrow or any such thing,
                        For Mr. and Mrs. Discobbolos!"




THE QUANGLE WANGLE'S HAT.

[Illustration]

                    I.

    On the top of the Crumpetty Tree
        The Quangle Wangle sat,
    But his face you could not see,
        On account of his Beaver Hat.
    For his Hat was a hundred and two feet wide,
    With ribbons and bibbons on every side,
    And bells, and buttons, and loops, and lace,
    So that nobody ever could see the face
            Of the Quangle Wangle Quee.


                    II.

    The Quangle Wangle said
        To himself on the Crumpetty Tree,
    "Jam, and jelly, and bread
        Are the best of food for me!
    But the longer I live on this Crumpetty Tree
    The plainer than ever it seems to me
    That very few people come this way
    And that life on the whole is far from gay!"
            Said the Quangle Wangle Quee.


                    III.

    But there came to the Crumpetty Tree
        Mr. and Mrs. Canary;
    And they said, "Did ever you see
        Any spot so charmingly airy?
    May we build a nest on your lovely Hat?
    Mr. Quangle Wangle, grant us that!
    O please let us come and build a nest
    Of whatever material suits you best,
            Mr. Quangle Wangle Quee!"


                    IV.

    And besides, to the Crumpetty Tree
        Came the Stork, the Duck, and the Owl;
    The Snail and the Bumble-Bee,
        The Frog and the Fimble Fowl
    (The Fimble Fowl, with a Corkscrew leg);
    And all of them said, "We humbly beg
    We may build our homes on your lovely Hat,--
    Mr. Quangle Wangle, grant us that!
       Mr. Quangle Wangle Quee!"


                    V.

    And the Golden Grouse came there,
        And the Pobble who has no toes,
    And the small Olympian bear,
        And the Dong with a luminous nose.
    And the Blue Baboon who played the flute,
    And the Orient Calf from the Land of Tute,
    And the Attery Squash, and the Bisky Bat,--
    All came and built on the lovely Hat
      Of the Quangle Wangle Quee.

                    VI.

    And the Quangle Wangle said
        To himself on the Crumpetty Tree,
    "When all these creatures move
        What a wonderful noise there'll be!"
    And at night by the light of the Mulberry moon
    They danced to the Flute of the Blue Baboon,
    On the broad green leaves of the Crumpetty Tree,
    And all were as happy as happy could be,
      With the Quangle Wangle Quee.




THE CUMMERBUND.
An Indian Poem.

                    I.

She sate upon her Dobie,
    To watch the Evening Star,
And all the Punkahs, as they passed,
    Cried, "My! how fair you are!"
Around her bower, with quivering leaves,
    The tall Kamsamahs grew,
And Kitmutgars in wild festoons
    Hung down from Tchokis blue.


                    II.

Below her home the river rolled
    With soft meloobious sound,
Where golden-finned Chuprassies swam,
    In myriads circling round.
Above, on tallest trees remote
    Green Ayahs perched alone,
And all night long the Mussak moan'd
    Its melancholy tone.


                    III.

And where the purple Nullahs threw
    Their branches far and wide,
And silvery Goreewallahs flew
    In silence, side by side,
The little Bheesties' twittering cry
    Rose on the flagrant air,
And oft the angry Jampan howled
    Deep in his hateful lair.


                    IV.

She sate upon her Dobie,
    She heard the Nimmak hum,
When all at once a cry arose,
    "The Cummerbund is come!"
In vain she fled: with open jaws
    The angry monster followed,
And so (before assistance came)
    That Lady Fair was swollowed.


                    V.

They sought in vain for even a bone
    Respectfully to bury;
They said, "Hers was a dreadful fate!"
    (And Echo answered, "Very.")
They nailed her Dobie to the wall,
    Where last her form was seen,
And underneath they wrote these words,
    In yellow, blue, and green:
"Beware, ye Fair! Ye Fair, beware!
    Nor sit out late at night,
Lest horrid Cummerbunds should come,
    And swollow you outright."


NOTE.--First published in _Times of India_, Bombay, July, 1874.




THE AKOND OF SWAT.


    Who, or why, or which, or _what_, Is the Akond of SWAT?
    Is he tall or short, or dark or fair?
    Does he sit on a stool or a sofa or chair,             or SQUAT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Is he wise or foolish, young or old?
    Does he drink his soup and his coffee cold,             or HOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he sing or whistle, jabber or talk,
    And when riding abroad does he gallop or walk,          or TROT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he wear a turban, a fez, or a hat?
    Does he sleep on a mattress, a bed, or a mat,          or a COT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    When he writes a copy in round-hand size,
    Does he cross his T's and finish his I's              with a DOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Can he write a letter concisely clear
    Without a speck or a smudge or smear                    or BLOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Do his people like him extremely well?
    Or do they, whenever they can, rebel,                   or PLOT,
                                                    At the Akond of Swat?

    If he catches them then, either old or young,
    Does he have them chopped in pieces or hung,            or _shot_,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Do his people prig in the lanes or park?
    Or even at times, when days are dark,                   GAROTTE?
                                                     O the Akond of Swat!

    Does he study the wants of his own dominion?
    Or doesn't he care for public opinion                    a JOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    To amuse his mind do his people show him
    Pictures, or any one's last new poem,                    or WHAT,
                                                   For the Akond of Swat?

    At night if he suddenly screams and wakes,
    Do they bring him only a few small cakes,               or a LOT,
                                                   For the Akond of Swat?

    Does he live on turnips, tea, or tripe?
    Does he like his shawl to be marked with a stripe,      or a DOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he like to lie on his back in a boat
    Like the lady who lived in that isle remote,            SHALLOTT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Is he quiet, or always making a fuss?
    Is his steward a Swiss or a Swede or a Russ,           or a SCOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he like to sit by the calm blue wave?
    Or to sleep and snore in a dark green cave,            or a GROTT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he drink small beer from a silver jug?
    Or a bowl? or a glass? or a cup? or a mug?              or a POT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he beat his wife with a gold-topped pipe,
    When she lets the gooseberries grow too ripe,            or ROT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he wear a white tie when he dines with friends,
    And tie it neat in a bow with ends,                    or a KNOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he like new cream, and hate mince-pies?
    When he looks at the sun does he wink his eyes,          or NOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he teach his subjects to roast and bake?
    Does he sail about on an inland lake,                  in a YACHT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Some one, or nobody, knows I wot
    Who or which or why or what
                                                    Is the Akond of Swat!


NOTE.--For the existence of this potentate see Indian newspapers, _passim_.
The proper way to read the verses is to make an immense emphasis on the
monosyllabic rhymes, which indeed ought to be shouted out by a chorus.

       *        *        *        *        *




NONSENSE BOTANY.


[Illustration: Armchairia Comfortabilis.]

[Illustration: Bassia Palealensis.]

[Illustration: Bubblia Blowpipia.]

[Illustration: Bluebottlia Buzztilentia.]

[Illustration: Crabbia Horrida.]

[Illustration: Smalltoothcombia Domestica.]

[Illustration: Knutmigrata Simplice.]

[Illustration: Tureenia Ladlecum.]

[Illustration: Puffia Leatherbellowsa.]

[Illustration: Queeriflora Babyides.]

       *        *        *        *        *




NONSENSE ALPHABETS.


                     A

               [Illustration]

    A was an Area Arch
        Where washerwomen sat;
    They made a lot of lovely starch
        To starch Papa's Cravat.


                     B

               [Illustration]

    B was a Bottle blue,
        Which was not very small;
    Papa he filled it full of beer,
        And then he drank it all.


                     C

               [Illustration]

    C was Papa's gray Cat,
        Who caught a squeaky Mouse;
    She pulled him by his twirly tail
        All about the house.


                     D

               [Illustration]

    D was Papa's white Duck,
        Who had a curly tail;
    One day it ate a great fat frog,
        Besides a leetle snail.


                     E

               [Illustration]

    E was a little Egg,
        Upon the breakfast table;
    Papa came in and ate it up
        As fast as he was able.


                     F

               [Illustration]

    F was a little Fish.
        Cook in the river took it
    Papa said, "Cook! Cook! bring a dish!
        And, Cook! be quick and cook it!"


                     G

               [Illustration]

    G was Papa's new Gun;
        He put it in a box;
    And then he went and bought a bun,
        And walked about the Docks.


                     H

               [Illustration]

    H was Papa's new Hat;
        He wore it on his head;
    Outside it was completely black,
        But inside it was red.


                     I

               [Illustration]

    I was an Inkstand new,
        Papa he likes to use it;
    He keeps it in his pocket now,
        For fear that he should lose it.


                     J

               [Illustration]

    J was some Apple Jam,
        Of which Papa ate part;
    But all the rest he took away
        And stuffed into a tart.


                     K

               [Illustration]

    K was a great new Kite;
        Papa he saw it fly
    Above a thousand chimney pots,
        And all about the sky.


                     L

               [Illustration]

    L was a fine new Lamp;
        But when the wick was lit,
    Papa he said, "This Light ain't good!
        I cannot read a bit!"


                     M

               [Illustration]

    M was a dish of mince;
        It looked so good to eat!
    Papa, he quickly ate it up,
        And said, "This is a treat!"


                     N

               [Illustration]

    N was a Nut that grew
        High up upon a tree;
    Papa, who could not reach it, said,
        "That's _much_ too high for me!"


                     O

               [Illustration]

    O was an Owl who flew
        All in the dark away,
    Papa said, "What an owl you are!
        Why don't you fly by day?"

                     P

               [Illustration]

    P was a little Pig,
        Went out to take a walk;
    Papa he said, "If Piggy dead,
        He'd all turn into Pork!"


                     Q

               [Illustration]

    Q was a Quince that hung
        Upon a garden tree;
    Papa he brought it with him home,
        And ate it with his tea.


                     R

               [Illustration]

    R was a Railway Rug
        Extremely large and warm;
    Papa he wrapped it round his head,
        In a most dreadful storm.


                     S

               [Illustration]

    S was Papa's new Stick,
        Papa's new thumping Stick,
    To thump extremely wicked boys,
        Because it was so thick.


                     T

               [Illustration]

    T was a tumbler full
        Of Punch all hot and good;
    Papa he drank it up, when in
        The middle of a wood.


                     U

               [Illustration]

    U was a silver urn,
        Full of hot scalding water;
    Papa said, "If that Urn were mine,
        I'd give it to my daughter!"


                     V

               [Illustration]

    V was a Villain; once
        He stole a piece of beef.
    Papa he said, "Oh, dreadful man!
        That Villain is a Thief!"


                     W

               [Illustration]

    W was a Watch of Gold:
        It told the time of day,
    So that Papa knew when to come,
        And when to go away.


                     X

               [Illustration]

    X was King Xerxes, whom
        Papa much wished to know;
    But this he could not do, because
        Xerxes died long ago.


                     Y

               [Illustration]

    Y was a Youth, who kicked
        And screamed and cried like mad;
    Papa he said, "Your conduct is
        Abominably bad!"


                     Z

               [Illustration]

    Z was a Zebra striped
        And streaked with lines of black;
    Papa said once, he thought he'd like
        A ride upon his back.




ALPHABET, No. 6.

    A tumbled down, and hurt his Arm, against a bit of wood,

    B said. "My Boy, oh, do not cry; it cannot do you good!"

    C said, "A Cup of Coffee hot can't do you any harm."

    D said, "A Doctor should be fetched, and he would cure the arm."

    E said, "An Egg beat up with milk would quickly make him well."

    F said, "A Fish, if broiled, might cure, if only by the smell."

    G said, "Green Gooseberry fool, the best of cures I hold."

    H said, "His Hat should be kept on, to keep him from the cold."

    I said, "Some Ice upon his head will make him better soon."

    J said, "Some Jam, if spread on bread, or given in a spoon!"

    K said, "A Kangaroo is here,--this picture let him see."

    L said, "A Lamp pray keep alight, to make some barley tea."

    M said, "A Mulberry or two might give him satisfaction."

    N said, "Some Nuts, if rolled about, might be a slight attraction."

    O said, "An Owl might make him laugh, if only it would wink."

    P said, "Some Poetry might be read aloud, to make him think."

    Q said, "A Quince I recommend,--a Quince, or else a Quail."

    R said, "Some Rats might make him move, if fastened by their tail."

    S said, "A Song should now be sung, in hopes to make him laugh!"

    T said, "A Turnip might avail, if sliced or cut in half!"

    U said, "An Urn, with water hot, place underneath his chin!"

    V said, "I'll stand upon a chair, and play a Violin!"

    W said, "Some Whisky-Whizzgigs fetch, some marbles and a ball!"

    X said, "Some double XX ale would be the best of all!"

    Y said, "Some Yeast mixed up with salt would make a perfect plaster!"

    Z said, "Here is a box of Zinc! Get in, my little master!
             We'll shut you up! We'll nail you down! We will, my little
                 master!
             We think we've all heard quite enough of this your sad
                 disaster!"





PREFACE.


"THE BIRD AND INSECTS' POST-OFFICE" was projected and written by ROBERT
BLOOMFIELD, author of the "Farmer's Boy," &c., excepting Letters VIII.,
X., XI., and XVI. by his eldest son, Charles. It was the author's
intention to publish it uniformly with his other juvenile work, the
"HISTORY OF LITTLE DAVY'S NEW HAT," but he did not live to do so, and it
was therefore included in his literary _Remains_, published in 1824--a
year after the poet's death--in two volumes, price twelve shillings. Its
circulation, in consequence, has been extremely limited, its form of
publication preventing its introduction to children; for this reason,
and because I think it would be a pity for it to be shut up for ever in
a dusty old volume from the little ones, for whom it was written, I
have sent it forth in the form originally intended for it to assume.

The original manuscript, in the author's autograph, I recently presented
to the Trustees of the British Museum.

WALTER BLOOMFIELD.

_March 1st, 1879._




CONTENTS.



LETTER                                                              PAGE

   I.--FROM THE MAGPIE TO THE SPARROW                                 19

  II.--THE SPARROW'S REPLY                                            22

 III.--FROM A YOUNG GARDEN-SPIDER TO HER MOTHER                       29

  IV.--FROM A YOUNG NIGHTINGALE TO A WREN                             33

   V.--FROM AN EARWIG, DEPLORING THE LOSS OF ALL HER CHILDREN         39

  VI.--FROM THE WILD DUCK TO THE TAME DUCK                            42

 VII.--THE TAME DUCK'S REPLY                                          47

VIII.--FROM THE GANDER TO THE TURKEY-COCK. _By Charles Bloomfield_    53

  IX.--FROM THE DUNGHILL-COCK TO THE CHAFFINCH                        58

   X.--FROM THE BLUE-BOTTLE FLY TO THE GRASSHOPPER
      _By Charles Bloomfield_                                         63

  XI.--FROM THE GLOW-WORM TO THE BUMBLE-BEE. _By Charles Bloomfield_  66

 XII.--FROM THE PIGEON TO THE PARTRIDGE                               71

XIII.--FROM THE WOOD-PIGEON TO THE OWL                                78

 XIV.--THE OWL IN REPLY TO THE WOOD-PIGEON                            85

  XV.--FROM A SWALLOW IN THE SOUTH OF FRANCE TO AN ENGLISH ROBIN      88

 XVI.--ON HEARING THE CUCKOO AT MIDNIGHT, MAY 1ST. 1822.
       _By Charles Bloomfield_                                        95




LIST OF FULL-PAGE ILLUSTRATIONS.


                                                  PAGE
THE BIRD AND INSECTS' POST-OFFICE       _Frontispiece._

MAGPIE                                              18

SPARROWS                                            23

SPIDERS                                             28

NIGHTINGALE                                         32

WRENS                                               35

WILD DUCKS                                          43

SPARROWS                                            49

GOOSE                                               55

COCK                                                59

PARTRIDGES                                      70, 74

PIGEONS                                         72, 76

OWLS                                            79, 83

SWALLOWS                                        89, 92

          AND SEVERAL SMALLER ONES IN THE TEXT.




AUTHOR'S PREFACE.


We all know that ?sop has made his birds and beasts talk, and reason
too; and that so well as still to make the volume bearing his name a
favourite with thousands. Perhaps, too, we all know that same French
author has objected to this method of teaching, alleging that children
should not be imposed upon (or something to that effect), and led to
believe in the _reality_ of talking birds and beasts. To me it appears
plainly that they do not, nor are they inclined to, believe in any such
reality. Observe two or three children at play with a favourite kitten.
When one of them, in mere wantonness, shall give the little animal a rap
on the nose, or a squeeze by the tail, the owner of the cat will
instantly exclaim, "Poor little pussy! she does not like that, _she
says_." Now, the child knows very well that the cat did not say a word
about the matter, but she looked and acted as if she had, and that was
enough.

In the following pages I have endeavoured to make my winged and creeping
correspondents talk in their own characters, according to their
well-known habits and pursuits.

I have added a few notes, sometimes of illustration, and sometimes of
inquiry; for, as natural history is almost a boundless field, I may
stand in need of correction myself. It will be obvious that I have taken
only some of the plainest and simplest subjects, for the purpose of
trying whether any interest can be awakened in young minds by such
means. And as I like to write for children, and think a great deal of
information might be blended with amusement in this way, I hold myself
acquitted of the charge of trifling and puerility, and am the young
reader's friend and well-wisher,

R[OBERT] B[LOOMFIELD.]







LETTER I.

_FROM THE MAGPIE TO THE SPARROW._


LITTLE JABBERER,

I have many times thought of addressing to you a few words of advice, as
you seem to stand in need of such a friend.

You know that I do not stand much upon ceremony; I am always ready for
talking and for giving advice, and really wonder how other birds can
keep themselves so quiet. Then you will pardon my frankness, since you
know my character, when I inform you that I think you remarkably tame
and spiritless: you have no enterprise in you. In an old farmyard,
shuffling amongst the straw, there you may be found morning, noon and
night; and you are never seen in the woods and groves with me and my
companions, where we have the blessing of free liberty, and fly where we
please. You must often have heard me sing; that cannot be doubted,
because I am heard a great way. As to me, I never come down to your
farm, unless I think I can find a hen's egg or two amongst the nettles,
or a chicken or duck just hatched.

I earnestly advise you to change your manner of life and take a little
free air, as I do. Stop no longer in your dull yard, feeding upon pigs'
leavings, but come abroad with me. But I must have done till a better
opportunity; for the gamekeeper with his gun has just turned the
corner. Take my advice, and you may be as well off, and learn to sing as
well as I do.

Yours, in great haste,

MAG.


[Illustration]




LETTER II.

_THE SPARROW'S REPLY._


OLD MAG (I won't say Neighbour),

I was hopping along the top ridge of the house when I received your
insolent and conceited epistle, which does you no credit, but is very
much in your usual style. "Little Jabberer" indeed! and pray, what is
your letter of advice? Nothing but jabber from beginning to end. You
_sing_, you say. I have heard you often enough; but if yours is singing,
then I must be allowed to be no judge of the matter. You say you are
afraid of the gamekeeper; this, perhaps, allows some sense in you, for
he is paid for killing all kinds of vermin.

[Illustration: SPARROWS.]

And so you come down to our farm when you think you can steal something!
Thus, if I did not hide my eggs and my young ones, in a hole too small
for you to enter, I can see pretty plainly how I should come off with
your thieving and your advice.

Be advised in _your_ turn; keep away from our yard, for my master has a
gun too; and your chattering, which I suppose you call singing, he
abominably hates. You will be in danger of catching what the gamekeeper
threatens, and then where is the great difference between your station
and mine?

From my lodging under the thatch of the stable, I am, as you may happen
to behave yourself,

Yours, at a convenient distance,

&c. &c.

[Illustration: SPIDERS.]




LETTER III.

_FROM A YOUNG GARDEN-SPIDER TO HER MOTHER._


DEAR MOTHER,

I cannot exactly tell what happened before I came out of the shell; but,
from circumstances, I can give you some information. When I came to
life, amongst some scores of other little merry yellow creatures, I
found myself, and all of us, enclosed in a thing, through which we, with
our eight eyes, could see very well, but could not instantly get out. I
soon perceived that we, in the egg state, wrapped in a white bag, as you
left us, had been put into a thing called a bottle, by one of those
great creatures whom we always call _striders_; but this was a
particular one of that tribe, who wanted to play tricks with us--one
whom they would perhaps call a philosopher.[1] Well, his own sense (if
he had any) told him that we could not live without air; so he left the
cork out, and went about his business; no doubt of much less consequence
than the lives of all us prisoners--but that they do not mind. But how
long were we prisoners? Why, as soon as ever we were out of the shell we
began to spin, and linked our webs so thick together that the
philosopher's bottle would hold us no longer. We climbed out in a crowd,
and spread our webs over the room, up to the very ceiling. I shall never
forget how the great booby stared when he saw us all climbing up our own
rope-ladders! I wonder if those great creatures are not sometimes caught
in webs spun by their fellow-creatures, and whether they are not
sometimes put by hundreds into a bottle without possessing any means of
escape? But I am but a child, and must live and learn before I talk more
freely. Long life to you, dear mother, and plenty of flies.

Yours ever, &c.

[Illustration: NIGHTINGALE.]




LETTER IV.

_FROM A YOUNG NIGHTINGALE TO A WREN._


Dated "Home Wood."

NEIGHBOUR,

When we last met you seemed very lively and agreeable, but you asked an
abundance of questions, and particularly wanted to know whether we
nightingales really do, as is said of us, cross the great water every
year, and return in the spring to sing in your English groves. Now, as I
am but young, I must be modest, and not prate about what I cannot as yet
understand. I must say, nevertheless, that I never heard my parents talk
of any particular long journey which they had performed to reach this
country, or that they should return, and take me and the rest of the
family with them, at this particular time or season. I know this, that I
never saw my parents fly further at one flight than from one side of a
field to another or from one grove to the next. Who are they who call
us "birds of passage"?[2] They certainly may know more of the extent of
the GREAT WATERS than we can, neighbour Wren; but have they considered
our powers, and the probability of what they assert? I am sure, if my
parents should call on me to go with them, I shall be flurried out of my
life. But it is my business to obey. I have so lately got my feathers,
that I cannot be a proper judge of the matter. As to the swallows and
many other birds going to a vast distance, there is no wonder in that,
if you look at their wings; but how would you, for instance, perform
such a journey--you who, even when you sing, put yourself into a violent
passion, as if you had not a minute to live? We nightingales are the
birds for song. This you will acknowledge, I dare say, though I have not
begun yet. I will give you a specimen when I come back (if I am really
to go), and you will hear me in "_Home Wood_" when it is dark, and you
have crept into your little nest in the hovel.

[Illustration: WRENS.]

Believe me, I have a great respect for you, and am your young friend,

THIRD-IN-THE-NEST.

[Illustration]




LETTER V.

_FROM AN EARWIG, DEPLORING THE LOSS OF ALL HER CHILDREN._


DEAR AUNT,

You cannot think how distressed I have been, and still am; for, under
the bark of a large elm, which, I dare say, has stood there a great
while, I had placed my whole family, where they were dry, comfortable,
and, as I foolishly thought, secure. But only mark what calamities may
fall upon earwigs before they are aware of them! I had just got my
family about me, all white, clean, and promising children, when pounce
came down that bird they call a woodpecker; when, thrusting his huge
beak under the bark where we lay, down went our whole sheltering roof!
and my children, poor things, running, as they thought, from danger,
were devoured as fast as the destroyer could open his beak and shut it.
For my own part, I crept into a crack in the solid tree, where I have
thus far escaped; but as this bird can make large holes into solid
timber, I am by no means safe.

This calamity is the more heavy, as it carries with it a great
disappointment; for very near our habitation was a high wall, the sunny
side of which was covered with the most delicious fruits--peaches,
apricots, nectarines, &c.--all just then ripening; and I thought of
having such a feast with my children as I had never enjoyed in my life.

I am surrounded by woodpeckers, jackdaws, magpies, and other devouring
creatures, and think myself very unfortunate. Yet, perhaps, if I could
know the situation of some larger creatures--I mean particularly such as
would tread me to death if I crossed their path--they may have
complaints to make as well as I.

Take care of yourself, my good old aunt, and I shall keep in my
hiding-place as long as starvation will permit, And, after all, perhaps
the fruit was not so delicious as it looked--I am resolved to think so,
just to comfort myself.

Yours, with compliments, as usual.

[Illustration]




LETTER VI.

_FROM THE WILD DUCK TO THE TAME DUCK._


Dated Lincoln and Ely Fens.

DEAR COUSIN,

I suppose I must call you so, though I declare I know not how we are
related. But, though I am thought so very wild and shy, I have still a
kind of fellow-feeling for you; and, if you have not gone to the spit
before this comes to you, I should be glad of your reply in a friendly
way. You know very well that you are intended to be eaten, and so are
we--when they can catch us. I understand that you never fly and that you
seldom waddle above a meadow's length from your pond, where you keep
puddling and groping from daylight till dark. This, I assure you, is not
the life that I lead. We fly together in vast numbers in the night, for
many miles over this flat, wet country; so, as to water, we have an
inexhaustible store: we may swim ourselves tired. But, I dare say, every
station of our duck-lives is subject to some disadvantages and some
calamities. Thus, with all our wildness, we are not secure; for we are
taken sometimes by hundreds in a kind of trap which is called a
decoy.

[Illustration: WILD DUCKS.]

Some of our tribe have been made tame like you (but I hope you are not
so false-hearted), and then their masters feed them plentifully, in a
place contrived on purpose, with a narrow entrance, with which these
_traitor ducks_ are well acquainted, so that they can pass in and out at
a place we strangers should never have thought of. They are sent out in
the dusk of the evening, when they soon join with large companies of us
strangers; and knowing, as they do, their way home, and that they shall
find food, they set off, close at each other's tails, along a ditch, or
watercourse, and we fools follow them.

The entrance, as far as I could see of it, is very narrow; for I have
been twice within a hair's breadth of being caught, and do not pretend
to know all about it; but I wish heartily that every duck and drake in
the country--ay, and every one of our allies, the geese, too, could say
as much--could say that "they had twice been on the verge of destruction
by keeping bad company, but had escaped."

What becomes of my companions, when taken, I think I have heard pretty
accurately; for there is somewhere a very large assemblage of
fellow-creatures to those who catch us, and whose demand seems never to
be satisfied. Well, never mind, cousin; I am determined to fly, and swim
too, as long as I can, and I advise you to do the same, and make the
most of your day.

Hoping to hear from you, I am, affectionately, your wild cousin.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




LETTER VII.

_THE TAME DUCK'S REPLY._


COUSIN WILDING,

I confess I did not at all expect to hear from you; for I always
believed you to be one of those thoughtless young creatures which are
to be found in other stations of life as well as in yours and mine, who,
as soon as they get fledged and able to get abroad, care no more for
their parents and those who brought them up than I care for a shower of
rain. However, you have escaped danger _twice_, and you have reason to
congratulate yourself. I have been sitting here upon ten eggs for three
weeks past, and of course have another week to be confined; but then the
thoughts of the pleasure I shall have in hatching and guiding my young
ones to the water, is ample payment for all my pains. They will look so
clean and so delighted, and will do as they are bid by the smallest
quack that I can utter, that I must be a bad mother indeed if I am not
proud of them. Perhaps you will wonder when I tell you that we have a
creature here--fledged indeed--which is called a hen; a strange,
cackling, flying, useless, noisy, silly creature, which is as much
afraid of water as you are of your decoy. I have often known one of
these birds to hatch nine or ten of my eggs; and then, if you wanted to
ridicule the lifted foot of conceit, and the dignity of assumed
importance, you should see her lead her young, or more properly, see the
young lead her to the nearest water they can find. In they go, and she
begins to call and scold, and run round the edge to save them from
drowning! Now, what fools these hens must be compared to us ducks! at
least, I, for one, am determined to think so. I have seen this same hen
with the brood about her scratching in our farmyard with all her might;
when, not considering who was behind her, or who under her feathers, she
has tricked away one little yellow duck with one of her claws, and
another with the other, till I wished I had her in a pond; I would have
given her a good sousing, depend upon it. But really, cousin, don't you
think that this way of contradicting our natures and propensities is
very wrong? Suppose, for instance, I should sit upon a dozen of that
silly creature's eggs which I mentioned above--for I will never consent
to have them matched with us--I should then, to be sure, have a week's
holiday, as they sit but three weeks; but what should I bring to light?
a parcel of little, useless, tip-toed, cowardly things, that would not
follow me into the pond--I cannot bear to think of it. I have written
you a long letter, and can think of no more but Quack! quack! quack! and
farewell.

[Illustration: SPARROWS.]

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




LETTER VIII.

_FROM THE GANDER TO THE TURKEY-COCK._

    (CHARLES BLOOMFIELD.)


    Old friend, you certainly have merit;
    You really are a bird of spirit.
    I'm quite surprised, I must confess;
    I did not think you did possess
    Such valour as you've lately shown--
    In fact, 'tis nearly like my own.
    You know I've always been renown'd
    For bravery, since first I found
    That I could hiss; and feel I'm bolder
    Each year that I am growing older.

[Illustration]

[Illustration: GOOSE.]

    You must, I'm sure, have often seen,
    When in the pond, or on the green,
    With all my family about me
    (I can't think how they'd do without me),
    Some human thing come striding by,
    And how, without a scruple, I
    March after him, and bite his heel;
    And then, you know, the pride I feel
    To hear, as back I march again,
    The feat extoll'd by all my train.
    But if I were to tell you all
    The valiant actions, great and small,
    That ever were achieved by me,
    I never should have done, I see;
    For cows, and pigs, and horses know
    The consequence of such a foe.
    However, I am glad to find
    That you have such a noble mind,
    And think, my friend, that by and by
    You'll rise to be as great as I.

Your old friend,

HISS.

[Illustration]




LETTER IX.

_FROM THE DUNGHILL-COCK TO THE CHAFFINCH._


I have often, during the spring and summer, heard you of a morning
piping away in the hedges, sometimes as soon as I was up myself, and
thought your singing pretty fair, and that you conducted yourself as you
ought to do. But this I cannot say lately; for it is quite overstepping
the bounds of decency and good manners when you and your brother
pilferers, now the winter is come, make it your daily practice to come
by scores, as you do, into our yard, and, without any ceremony, eat
up all the barley you can lay your beaks to. I suppose when the
spring comes again, and you find more to satisfy you outside a farmyard
than within, you will be off to the hedges again. I shall let you alone,
unless the barley runs short, which is to support my wives and
children; when if you still venture to continue your pilferings, you
must not be surprised should some of you feel the weight of my
displeasure.

[Illustration: COCK.]

[Illustration]

I must go after my family, who are all out of my sight, since I have
been writing this.

Yours in haste, and a friend if possible,

CHANTICLEER.




LETTER X.

_FROM THE BLUE-BOTTLE FLY TO THE GRASSHOPPER._

(CHARLES BLOOMFIELD.)


[Illustration]

I.

      As I roamed t'other day,
      Neighbour Hop, in my way
    I discovered a nice rotten plum,
      Which you know is a treat;
      And, to taste of the sweet,
    A swarm of relations had come.


II.

      So we all settled round,
      As it lay on the ground,
    And were feasting ourselves with delight;
       But, for want of more thought
       To have watched, as we ought,
    We were suddenly seized--and held tight.

    III.

       In a human clenched hand,
       Where, unable to stand,
    We were twisted and tumbled about;
       But, perceiving a chink,
       You will readily think
    I exerted myself--I got out.

    IV.

       How the rest got away
       I really can't say;
    But I flew with such ardour and glee.
       That again, unawares,
       I got into the snares
    Of my foe Mr. Spider, you see;

    V.

       Who so fiercely came out
       Of his hole, that no doubt
    He expected that I was secure:
       But he found 'twould not do,
       For I forced my way through,
    Overjoyed on escaping, you're sure.

[Illustration]

    VI.

       But I'll now take my leave,
       For the clouds I perceive
    Are darkening over the sky;
       The sun has gone in,
       And I really begin
    To feel it grow colder.--Good bye!

I'm, as ever, yours,

BLUE-BOTTLE FLY.

[Illustration]




LETTER XI.

_FROM THE GLOW-WORM TO THE HUMBLE-BEE._

(CHARLES BLOOMFIELD.)


    Excuse, Mr. Bee, this epistle, to one
    Whose time, from the earliest gleam of the sun
    Till he sinks in the west, is so busily spent,
    That I fear I intrude;--but I write with intent
    To save your whole city from pillage and ruin,
    And to warn you in time of a plot that is brewing.
    Last night, when, as usual, enjoying the hour
    When the gloaming had spread, and a trickling shower
    Was beading the grass as it silently fell,
    And day with reluctance was bidding farewell;
    When down by yon hedge, nearly opposite you,
    And your City of Honey, as proudly I threw
    The rays from my lamp in a magical round;
    I listened, alarmed upon hearing the sound
    Of human intruders approaching more near;
    But I presently found _I_ had nothing to fear,
    For the hedge was between us, and I and my gleam
    Lay hid from their view: when the following scheme
    I heard, as they sheltered beneath the old tree,
    And send you each creature's own words, Mr. Bee:--
    "See, Jack, there it is; now suppose you and I,
    With a spade and some brimstone, should each of us try
    Some night, when we're sure all the bees are at rest,
    To smother them all, and then dig out the nest."
    "I know we can do it," said Jack with delight;
    "I can't come to-morrow; but s'pose the next night
    We both set about it, if you are inclined;
    And then we will halve all the honey we find?"
    "Agreed," said the other, "but let us be gone."
    And they left me in thought until early this morn;
    When I certainly meant, if your worship had stay'd
    But a minute or two, till my speech I had made,
    To have saved you the reading, as well as the cost
    Of a letter by post--but my words were all lost;
    For though they were lavished each time you came near,
    Or was close overhead, and I thought you _should_ hear,
    Yet the buzz of importance, as onward you flew,
    Bobbing into each flower the whole meadow through,
    So baffled your brains that I let you alone,
    For I found that I might as well speak to a drone:
    Yet, rather than quietly leave you to fate
    (Such a villainous thought never entered my pate),
    I send you this letter, composed by the light
    Of my silvery lamp in the dead of the night,
    And about the same time, and the very same place,
    That a few nights ago, when the moon hid her face,
    I beheld, nearly hid in the grass as I lay,
    And my lamp in full splendour reflecting its ray
    In the eye of each dewdrop, the fairies unseen
    To all human vision, trip here with their Queen,
    To pay me a visit, to dance and to feast;
    And their revels continued, till full in the east
    The sun tinged the clouds for another bright day,
    When each took the warning and bounded away:
    'Tis the same at this moment. Farewell, Mr. Hum,
    I've extinguished my lamp, for the morning is come.

SPANGLE.

[Illustration: PARTRIDGES.]




LETTER XII.

_FROM THE PIGEON TO THE PARTRIDGE._


What a long time it is since I received your kind letter about the
ripening corn, and the dangers you were presently to be subject to with
all your children!

[Illustration: PIGEONS.]

You will think me very idle, or very unfeeling, if I delay answering you
any longer; I will therefore tell you some of my own troubles, to
convince you that I have had causes of delay, which you can have no
notion of until I explain them. You must know, then, that we are subject
to more than the random gun-shot in the field, for we are sometimes
taken out of our house a hundred at a time, and put into a large
basket to be placed in a meadow or spare plat of ground suiting the
purpose, there to be murdered at leisure. This they call "shooting from
the trap,"[3] and is done in this way:

We being imprisoned, as I have said, as thick as we can stand in the
basket, a man is placed by us to take us out _singly_, and carry us to a
small box, at the distance of fifty or sixty yards; this box has a lid,
to which is attached a string, by means of which, he, the man (if he is
a man) can draw up the lid and let us fly at a signal given. Every
sensible pigeon of course flies for his life, for, ranged on each side,
stand from two to four or six men with guns, who fire as the bird gets
upon the wing; and the cleverest fellows are those who can kill
most;--and this they call _sport_!

[Illustration: PARTRIDGES.]

I have sad cause to know how this sport is conducted, for I have been in
the trap myself. Only one man, or perhaps a boy, fired at me as I rose;
but I received two wounds, for one shot passed through my crop, but I
was astonished to find how soon it got well; the other broke my leg just
below the feathers. Oh, what anguish I suffered for two months! at the
end of which time it withered and dropped off. So now, instead of
running about amongst my red-legged brethren, as a pigeon ought, I am
obliged to hop like a sparrow. But only consider what glory this
stripling must have acquired, to have actually fired a gun and broke a
pigeon's leg! Well, we both know, neighbour Partridge, what the Hawk is;
he stands for no law, nor no season, but eats us when he is hungry. He
is a perfect gentleman compared to these "Lords of the Creation," as I
am told they call themselves; and I declare to you upon the honour of a
pigeon, that I had much rather be torn to pieces by the Hawk than be
shut up in a box at a convenient distance to be shot at by a dastard.
You partridges are protected during great part of the year by severe
laws, but whether such laws are wise, merciful, or just, I cannot
determine, but I know that they are strictly kept and enforced by those
who make them. Take care of yourself, for the harvest is almost ripe.

I am, your faithful,

ONE-LEGGED FRIEND AT THE GRANGE.

[Illustration]




LETTER XIII.

_FROM THE WOOD-PIGEON TO THE OWL._


MY GOOD, OLD, WISE, SECLUDED, AND QUIET FRIEND,

I write to you in the fulness of my heart, for I have been grossly
insulted by the Magpie, in a letter received this morning; in which I
am abused for what my forefathers did long before I was born. I know of
nothing more base, or more unjust, than thus raking up old quarrels[4]
and reproaching those who had nothing to do with them. The letter must
have come through your office, but I know you have not the authority to
break open and examine letters passing between those who should be
friends; I therefore do not accuse you; but sometimes the heart is
relieved by stating its troubles even when no redress can be expected. I
know that you cannot bring to punishment that slanderer, that babbler of
the woods, any more than I can; but I wish you would give me a word of
comfort, if it is ever so short.

[Illustration: OWL.]

From the plantation of firs,

Near the forest-side,

WOOD-PIGEON.

[Illustration]




LETTER XIV.

_THE OWL IN REPLY TO THE WOOD-PIGEON._


DISTRESSED NEIGHBOUR,

I am sorry for your trouble, but cheer up your spirits, and though you
are insulted, remember who it is that gives the affront, it is only the
magpie; and depend upon it that in general the best way to deal with
impudent fools is to be silent and take no notice of them. I should have
enough to do if I were to resent all her impertinences. She will come
sometimes round the ivy where I lodge in the old elm, or into the tower
on the top of the hill; and there she will pimp and pry into my private
concerns, and mob me, and call me "Old Wigsby" and "Doctor Winkum," and
such kind of names, and all for nothing. I assure you it is well for her
that she is not a mouse, or she should not long escape my talons; but
who ever heard of such a thing as eating a magpie? I live chiefly on
mice (when I am at liberty to catch them), but I have my complaints to
make as well as you, for you know I hold a high situation in the
Post-office, and I suppose you know, likewise, that the letters are
brought in so very late that it often takes me half the night to sort
them, and night is the very time when I ought to get my own food! At
this rate of going on, and if the cats are industrious as usual, there
will not be a mouse left for me, if I do not give up my place.

I have heard that my family are famed for wisdom; but for my part I will
not boast of any such thing: yet I am wise enough to know that other
people in high offices expect either a good salary or perquisites, as a
reward for their labour, or what is easier still, somebody to do all the
work for them. If I hold in my present mind until next quarter, I will
certainly send in my resignation. Thus you see what an important thing
it is to suit the person to the office, or the office to the person on
whom it is conferred; for had the magpie, for instance, been secretary,
every one of the letters would have been peeped into, for a certainty,
for nothing can escape her curiosity. I will try to bear with my
situation a little longer, and believe me to be

Your true friend,

SECRETARY TO THE BOARD OF MANAGERS.

[Illustration]




LETTER XV.

_FROM A SWALLOW IN THE SOUTH OF FRANCE TO AN ENGLISH ROBIN._


DEAR LITTLE BOB,

I remember your peaceful singing on the top of your shed, near my late
dwelling, and I remember also that I promised to write you some
account of my journey. You may recollect that, at the close of your
summer, when flies became scarce, we all assembled on a sunny morning,
on the roof of the highest building in the village, and talked loudly of
the flight we intended to take. At last came the day appointed, and we
mounted up in a vast body and steered southward.

[Illustration: SWALLOWS.]

Being hatched in England, I had thought your valleys and streams
matchless in beauty; and for anything I know to the contrary they
certainly are; but I am now a traveller, and have a traveller's
privilege to say what I like. When we reached the great water I was
astonished at its width, but more still to see many travelling houses
going at a prodigious rate, and sending forth from iron chimneys columns
of black smoke over the face of the water, reaching further than you
ever flew in your life; they have a contrivance on each side which puts
the waves all in commotion, but they are not wings. My mother says that
in old times, when swallows came to England, there were no such things
to be seen. We crossed this water, and a fine sunny country beyond it,
until I was tired, and we now found flies more abundant, though the
oldest amongst us assure me that we must travel further still, over
another wide water, into a country where men's faces are of the same
colour as my feathers, black and tawny; but travellers see strange
things. When I come to England again I will endeavour to find out your
village.[5] I hope, for your sake, you may have a mild winter and good
lodgings. This is all the news worth sending, and I must catch flies for
myself now, you know.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

So farewell,

For I am in haste.

[Illustration]




LETTER XVI.

_ON HEARING THE CUCKOO AT MIDNIGHT, MAY 1st. 1822._

(CHARLES BLOOMFIELD.)


    'Twas the blush of the spring, vegetation was young,
    And the birds with a maddening ecstasy sung
    To welcome a season so lovely and gay--
    But a scene the most sweet was the close of May-day.
    For the air was serene, and the moon was out bright,
    And Philomel boldly exerted her might
    In her swellings and trillings, to rival the sound
    Of the distant defiance of nightingales round.
    While the cuckoo as proudly was heard to prolong,
    Though daylight was over, her own mellow song,
    And appeared to exult; and at intervals, too,
    The owl in the distance joined in with "Too-whoo!"
    Unceasing, unwearied, each, proud of his power,
    Continued the contest from hour to hour;
    The nightingale vaunting--the owl in reply--
    With the cuckoo's response--till the moon from the sky
    Was hastening down to the west, and the dawn
    Was spreading the east; and the owl in the morn
    Sat silently winking his eyes at the sight;
    And the nightingale also had bidden "good-night."
    The cuckoo, left solus, continued with glee,
    His notes of defeat from his favourite tree;
    At length he departed; but still as he flew,
    Was heard his last notes of defiance, "Cuckoo!"

THE END.

_London: R. Clay, Sons, and Taylor, Printers_

       *       *       *       *       *


NOTES:

[1] This part of the letter is very difficult of translation, as the
plain word, in spiders' language, means merely "a deep one."--R. B.

[2] Cowper, that excellent man and poet, and close observer of nature,
writes as follows to his friend, on the 11th of March, 1792:--

     "_TO JOHN JOHNSON, ESQ._

"You talk of primroses that you pulled on Candlemas Day, but what think
you of me, who heard a nightingale on New Year's Day? Perhaps I am the
only man in England who can boast of such good fortune. Good indeed! for
if was at all an omen, it could not be an unfavourable one. The winter,
however, is now making himself amends, and seems the more peevish for
having been encroached on at so undue a season. Nothing less than a
large slice out of the spring will satisfy him."

He adds the following lines on the occasion:--

    "_TO THE NIGHTINGALE, WHICH THE AUTHOR HEARD SING ON
                  NEW YEAR'S DAY, 1792._

    "Whence is it that amazed I hear
      From yonder wither'd spray,
    This foremost morn of all the year,
      The melody of May?

    "And why, since thousands would be proud
      Of such a favour shown,
    Am I selected from the crowd,
      To witness it alone?

    "Sing'st thou, sweet Philomel, to me,
      For that I also long
    Have practised in the groves like thee,
      Though not like thee in song?

    "Or, sing'st thou rather under force
      Of some divine command,
    Commissioned to presage a course
      Of happier days at hand?

    "Thrice welcome then! for many a long
      And joyless year have I,
    As thou to-day, put forth my song
      Beneath a wintry sky.

    "But thee no wintry skies can harm,
      Who only need'st to sing
    To make e'en January charm,
      And every season spring.

                        R.B."


[3] I once witnessed this silly and barbarous sport, and saw at least a
score of maimed and wounded birds upon the barns, and stables, and
outhouses of the village. I was utterly disgusted, and it required a
strong effort of the mind to avoid wishing that one of the gunners at
least had hobbled off the ground with a dangling leg, which might for
one half-year have reminded him of the cowardly practice of "shooting
from the trap."--R. B.

[4] The poor pigeon, I think, must here allude to the old well-known
quarrel between the two families about building their nests. The magpie
once undertook to teach the pigeon how to build a more substantial and
commodious dwelling, and certainly it would have become the learner to
have observed her progress, and not interrupt the teacher; but the
pigeon kept on her usual cry, "Take two, Taffy, take two" (for thus it
is translated in Suffolk), but Mag insisted this was wrong, and that one
stick at a time was quite enough; still the pigeon kept on her cry,
"Take two, take two," until the teacher in a violent passion gave up the
undertaking, exclaiming, "I say that one at a time is plenty, and if you
think otherwise, you may act about the work yourself, for I will have no
more to do with it." Since that time the wood-pigeon has built a
wretched nest, sure enough, so thin that you may frequently see her two
eggs through it, and if not placed near the body of a tree, or on strong
branches, it is often thrown down by the wind, or the eggs rolled out;
yet the young of this bird, before they are half grown, will defend
themselves against any intruder, at which time the parent bird will dash
herself down amongst the standing corn or high grass, and behave as
though her wings were broken, and she was utterly disabled; and this she
does to draw off the enemy from her young; so that this bird is not so
foolish as Mag would make us believe.--R. B.

[5] It is much to be wished that the above letter had contained some
information on a very curious subject, for I would rather believe the
swallow himself than many tales told of them. It has been said that,
instead of flying to southern countries, where they can find food and a
congenial climate, they dive into the waters of a bog, and lie in a
torpid state, through the winter, round the roots of flags and
weeds.--R. B.








CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER I. 

PAGK 

INTRODUCTION . 1 



CHAPTER II. 

GRAPHIC SKETCHES 18 

CHAPTER III. 

A TRAGEDY IN THE GRASS 33 

CHAPTER IV. 

SUBTERRANEAN CITIES 49 

CHAPTER V. 

AN EXCURSION INTO THE HYMENOPTEROUS WORLD . . . G8 

CHAPTER VI. 

WANDERING TRIBES 90 



riii CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER VII. 

PAOK 

NOTES OF THE TRAVELS OF A CENTIPEDE 105 

CHAPTER VIII. 

SOLITARY BEES 119 

CHAPTER IX. 

DIGGERS 136 

CHAPTER X. 

STILT WALKERS 152 

CHAPTER XI. 

FUOM THE MEADOW TO THE WILDERNESS . . . . . . 167 

CHAPTER XII. 

A VINDICATION 183 

CHAPTER XIII. 

THE OBSEQUIES OF A FIELD MOUSE ........ 198 

CHAPTER XIV. 

CONCLUSION 213 




THE 



POPULATION OF AN OLD PEAR-TREE. 



CHAPTER I. 

INTRODUCTION. 

WHEN certain blue spirits begin .to flit 
about me, I depart from my study to go and 
read, in what I am allowed, even by my clerical 
uncle, to call my book of devotions. 

The devotions I mean are not in my book- 
case. No publisher, if he ever thought of such 
a thing, could bring them out. They are a page 
of the book of Nature, opened in the country, 
under blue sky, displayed at all seasons. Every 



one has looked at that book, but few of us under- 
stand it in any degree, and the man who could 
read it all would be the wisest in the world. 

In short, my book is a meadow lying not 
far from the town where I was born. A 
substantial farmer gets two crops of hay off it, 
and is well satisfied. 

I go there to do nothing, and am still better 
satisfied, and we are not at all in each other's 
way. 

No traveller in search of scenery has ever 
found so fair a spot as my meadow. Set within 
a frame of beautiful hills, it is like a great 
amphitheatre, the only entrance being a narrow 
cleft with a brook at the bottom. It is entirely 
enclosed by a verdant screen of ambitious shrubs. 
Unnumbered generations of primroses, periwinkles, 
violets, and lilies of the valley grow on the 
slopes. Birds make their nests there, twittering 
and singing at the top of their voices ; one 
insect chases another from flower to flower like 
fantastic sylphs; thence the bee draws her honey, 




there the hare makes her form ; my meadow is 
all jubilant with song, colour, and light. Now I 
will tell you how I was admitted into its secrets. 

One day I went out with heavy head, restless 
eye, and gloomy temper. I walked straight on, 
like a crane or a bittern, without pausing at the 
wayside attractions. Such demeanour, absurd afc 
it is, generally indicates some mental disquiet. 
The happy man, provided he be taken up with 
other thoughts, moves in curves or zigzags, nearer 
and farther, backwards and forwards, in no haste 
to be at his journey's end. I had, however, no 
reason to complain that I had trusted to the 
guidance of my star. Chance, the odours of 
spring, and a fortunate instinct, conducted me 
on that day to a splendid discovery. 

All at once I found before me a vast lawn 
clothed in green velvet, with gold and silver 
enamel. Some old trees stretched out into the 
sunshine ; stunted and knotty, they waved in the 
breeze their long limbs all covered with infant 
fruits. 

 

At sight of them the frown left my brow, 
and I began to improve. I relaxed my hurried 
pace ; I began by sitting down, and at last lay 
down at full length on the grass. I like that 
posture, for it disposes one to contemplation. 

I cried, " Oh how good it is to see no more 
houses, streets, or squares ! How I enjoy this 
sweet solitude, full of love and peace, gaining 
new charms from each dawning day ! " 

With this, my thoughts wandering in a thou- 
sand visions, the characters of past, present, and 
future, I soon came to dream that I was dreaming ; 
then softly, without effort, slipping from one 
breath to another, I slept the sleep of the just. 

Gradually I became, as it were, lulled and 
benumbed by dreamy sensations ; but I was 
startled out of this happy condition by angry 
howls, uncertain cries, and passionate exclama- 
tions resounding close to me. One voice mur- 
mured : 

" Oh, what pain I am in ! bruised all over, 
and my wing dreadfully crumpled ! If I only 




could get it out ! But no, he will not move, and 
I am kept prisoner by a bent stalk." 

Others cried, " Prick him, bite him, tear him 
with your sharp claws : he is a hideous arid 
disgusting monster ; he cannot take a single 
step without committing a crime ; his path is 
strewed with the dead and dying/' 

I immediately felt a strange tingling in all 
my limbs, but it was too slight to wake me 
entirely. It seemed as if all the pores of my 
skin were being furnished with wondrously sharp 
and piercing eyes. All my senses at once be- 
came marvellously acute. The hum of a gnat 
seemed like the sound of a trumpet, and the per- 
'fume of lilies of the valley, wafted on the breeze, 
was strong enough to intoxicate my senses. 

" Is this," I thought, " the beginning of another 
life, and have I died without finding it out 1 
After all, why should I be surprised 1 Did I 
make a note of my natal hour, the fleeting moment 
when I inhaled my first breath ? Dead or alive, 
I will be all ears and eyes." 



I now saw the face of nature under a quite 
novel aspect, from the point of view of the 
smallest members of creation. Instead of re- 
clining on a carpet of greensward, I found I 
was in an immense tangled forest made up of 
giant grasses, whose long streamers waving in the 
air were composed of a splendid tissue of green 
and gold spangled with crystal spikes. The most 
humble flowers appeared to me to be magnificent 
plants of unusual splendour. The very daisy 
close beside me had acquired a majestic grace, 
and the stalk surprised me by its dimensions. 
This stem was of a tender green colour and 
clothed with long glassy hairs, growing more close 
together at the top, forming fasces around 
the flowery crown. Among the pretty white 
petals so often used by young girls in divining 
their fortunes, where I had never before seen 
anything but the golden heart, I now perceived 
a great nosegay of yellow blossoms interspersed 
with little transparent balls, and perfectly regular. 
This is no exaggeration ; I really saw what I 




describe, remembering all the time that it is hard 
to believe. 

The very ground was changed wherever it was 
not covered with grass. The whole surface shone 
with precious stones. Every grain of sand, spark- 
ling with many colours, and darting a thousand 
fires, was worthy to be set in a sovereign's ring. 

I remembered that I had lain down at the 
foot of a pear-tree, just bursting into leaf with 
the warm breath of spring, though much injured 
by the winter's cold. I saw it again, but so 
wonderfully enlarged, that I really could not take 
it all in at once. Its bark had quite disappeared, 
giving place to a rich carpet of white, green, or 
yellow moss, in the most whimsical patterns. At 
times this verdant veil was raised by certain flat, 
bald heads, with great glaring round eyes, and 
bearing powerful hooks instead of jaws, which 
took a curious survey of me. For an instant I 
feared I should be eaten up, and then returned 
to my mind a picture of Breughel's, of the in- 
fernal regions, in which the demons are drawn 




with cloven feet and large stomachs, grinning, 
leaping, and dancing, and with a human form 
struggling among them. Eeally I did deserve a 
chastisement for my intrusion into the meadow, 
the disastrous consequences of which I now had 
power to perceive to the full extent. I had bruised 
the tender stalks of springing grass, broken quan- 
tities of buds, and destroyed myriads of living 
creatures. In my stupid simplicity I had never 
had any suspicion of the pain I caused while 
perpetrating these evil deeds, and had been in 
a state of delight at the profound peace pervading 
the country, and the charms of solitude. What 
peace, and what solitude ! 

I was beginning to pity and say disagreeable 
things to myself, the privilege of intimacy, 
when a stifled cry was forced from my lips, 
and my blood was frozen in my veins by an 
unexpected sight. A terrible creature, at the 
recollection of which I still shudder, had suddenly 
Appeared in my sight, hanging over my head like 
an acrobat on his trapeze. It was an enormous 

spider, keeping her great black eyes constantly 
fixed on mine with a most implacable expression. 
Slowly, slowly did she descend from one of the 
branches of the old Pear-Tree. 

Eeader, allow me here to break into my tale 
with the confession of one of my failings. By 
nature I have many, and am not sorry for it, 
because it is perhaps, thanks to my own faults, 
that I have become indulgent to those of others. 
I have no right to set up for rigid virtue. The 
Athenians banished Aristides because they were 
tired of hearing him called the Just ; and for my 
part, so far I have lived in peace under my own 
roof. Now, of course I am brave, but only about 
half-brave. I am able to make a valiant resist- 
ance to any attack when once hand-to-hand with 
the aggressor ; but when it is a waiting matter, 
seeing him approach gradually, holding his breath, 
and while I momentarily expect a deadly hug, 
which still comes not, at these my nerves become 
agitated, stiffen, give way, and I fall into a strange 
condition. I am not exactly afraid, but I feel as 



a hare must when just found by a pointer-dog in 
her form. Thus was I while the giant spider, full 
of savage strength and vigour, descended from 
the branches of the tree beneath which I had 
slumbered. 

The body was clothed in a kind of grey fur, 
and of a ruddy brown colour, varied by some 
marked patterns in a bright yellow. The active 
limbs, thin, sinewy, of considerable strength, were 
in incessant motion ; they were armed with claws 
like a cat's, and as hard and sharp as blades of 
steel. The mouth bore a pair of mandibles, and 
two hooks. These last implements were each ter- 
minated by a small hole, the issues of canals lead- 
ing from poison-glands full of a deadly liquid. 

I was confounded, and would have given the 
whole world to have been able to run away as fast 
as my legs would carry me ; but they refused their 
office. The spider continued to descend, turning 
and twisting in the wind, and, like a cat watching 
a mouse, stared at me and fascinated me with her 
big jet-black eyes. Strangely engrossed in spite of 



my increasing agitation, I did not miss a single 
one of her movements. The silk she hung by was 
an absolute rope, composed of a vast quantity of 
extremely fine strands, which issued from four 
conical humps she bore on her abdomen. These 
threads at first were sticky and slimy, but soon 
hardened in the air, while she united them by the 
movements of her feet. 

My fate was coming to a crisis. The monster's 
claws were not above an inch from my cheek, 
when she all at once stopped and climbed up hei 
rope with great rapidity. 

I was safe ! Above me, in an immensely 
strong web, which reminded me of the great nets 
our fishermen use, was struggling a black fly, with 
great masses of eyes, arranged like the facets of a 
precious stone on each side of his head, his throat 
and body glittering in the sun as if clothed in 
fine burnished Milan steel. On his back was a 
yellowish moving spot, which really was a parasitic 
insect. This strange rider, foreseeing a catastrophe 
by the instinct peculiar to creatures of his kind, 



was hastily disentangling the two grapplers that 
secured his hold on his victim, and arranging his 
retreat. He was flat and hideous, with long suckers, 
and a body puffed out with blood. 

Poor fly ! It looked so wretched that I almost 
thought its expression human. I had already 
witnessed similar scenes in my native town. Is it 
not thus that the artist, with his love of the 
beautiful, intoxicated with independence, generous 
even to prodigality, falls into the nets of Shylock 
the money-lender, a crawling v/retch, who lives 
by trickery, and watches in the shade for his 
prey? Poor artist! Indignant at having fallen 
under such a yoke, he exhausts his strength in 
futile resistance ! Even so was it with the fly. 
Caught by one wing it struggled frantically. 
There is always some hope, even in the most 
desperate case. 

It is matter, I thought, for rejoicing, that we 
are all ignorant, both men and beasts, of the 
secret of our fate. Great Heaven ! what a life 
should we lead could we guess the riddle of this 



sphinx, immoveable guardian of the shrine! And 
really is not the work hard and harvest scanty 
for a great proportion of us ? Many germs are 
blighted, or do not reach maturity, and many a 
spring is dried up before its silver thread can 
mingle with the great waves of the blue ocean. 
The fly had nearly regained freedom. The 
network around it was yielding on all sides, when 
the spider rushed upon it, and strained it in a 
close embrace. The captive repulsed her, stif- 
fening all its limbs to the utmost, but, sad to 
relate, not in time to avoid a savage wound, filled 
with poisonous juice ; and, thus paralysed, its cou- 
rage was all in vain. The spider, crushing down 
a final throe of life, turned it round and round, 
smeared it with sticky slime, covered it with 
threads, and began to devour it. Meanwhile the 
abject parasite I have before mentioned had let 
itself fall on the ground, and with difficulty dragged 
itself along the sand a short distance from me. 
Certainly the little abortion was not without dex- 
terity. It was of those who survive all disasters, 





pass uninjured through all 

find a niche to rest in somewhere. It all depends 

on constitution. 

I had been greatly excited by these scenes, 
and remained asleep, my head in shade, and feet 
in sunshine. Had my dream lasted minutes, 
hours, or days ? I had no knowledge of time, 
and murmured with my lips : 

" The book of creation is hard to read, and 
at times there is much pain in learning its lessons. 
The whole is contained in every individual thing ! 
The range of our view is bounded by infinity. 
This lowest parasite, fallen from, a fly's wing, 
perhaps had his own vermin preying on himself. 
In space there is star beyond star ; on earth one 
atom is lost in another atom." 

I stopped, confounded by this overwhelming 
thought ; here began my initiation. The cha- 
racter of the meadow had changed, and I thence- 
forward called it my book of devotion. 



MY astonishment had already been excited 
by the vast bulk of the old tree at whose feet 
I had seated myself, and I continued to gaze 
upon it. Firmly anchored in the ground, with 
penetrating powerful roots, and bravely raising its 
splendid trunk with a crown of multitudinous 
branches to the sky, through which it projected 
a wide and deep shadow penetrated by many 
brilliant lights, around it had perished myriads 
of beings benumbed by the approach of cold, 
exhausted by famine and misery ; while it, always 
sound and vigorous, clothed itself with returning 



spring with a fresh vesture. Eain, hail, and storm 
destroying legions of living atoms, could hardly 
bend its head. An unmoved witness, it took its 
part in the many pageants of my meadow's 

stage. 




Envy could not begrudge a princely state to 
this old patrician ; for so it seemed by nature. 
The old Pear-Tree was gentle and kind to the 
weak, like a nobleman come of a good stock. The 



farmer's children climbed the branches yearly, and 
thence gathered a quantity of fine ripe fruit ; 
while wasps and caterpillars took their share. 
Here and there young twigs might be cut away, 
but these slight thefts were of no consequence. 
Does the owner of a great landed property, the 
accumulation of many years, with secure title- 
deeds, trouble himself for the vile pilfering of 
some petty bailiff? He deigns not to interfere, 
although aware of what is going on. Examples 
of all sorts are found in this world, from the 
oak scattering its acorns in the forest, down to 
the animal that searches for them in the mud. 
Ducklings hasten into the water, while chickens 
dare not quit the bank ; each does according to 
its own particular nature. 

Our tree, full of rich sap, had more clients 
than a Roman senator. And first, there lived 
in the folds of the bark a curious race very 
homely, without much elegance, but very lively. 
It was a tribe of woodlice, of all ages, and different 
shapes and colours. Young or old, they looked 






quite unpleasant enough, and I should not have 
liked to see them march towards me. Their bodies, 
all of a size, were composed of ten rings, or plates, 
of an ash colour. I could make out with some 
difficulty a little dusky head in front of the 
foremost, bearing two bending and very active 
antennae. 




They went and came, biting and gnawing all 
sorts of rubbish, and even making attacks on 
the still tender stalks of newly budding plants. 
Did any one of them suffer from any accident, 
the whole party rushed on him, and made a 
meal on his carcase. Is not this too often the 
fate of those who fail, men or beasts ? How 
much better is it to dismember a motionless body, 



like the woodlice, than to fatten on the reputation 
of an honest man. But not to moralize too 
much. 

My woodlice, like some politicians, clever people 
otherwise, often put on a new coat, withdrawing 
carefully from their old shell body, legs, and 
horns. They were of all shades, according to their 
age from pale grey to dark grey, spotted with 
black spots, and little yellow. The females bore 
a little bag of a thin transparent skin, in which 
were enclosed their progeny. 

I was watching them running through the 
moss, when a sharp metallic sound recalled me to 
other scenes. I thought a little silver bell had 
been rung near the mouth of a dark cavern, 
opening in a slope, about two steps off. The 
sound was repeated louder, and I saw appear 
a long head, with four great thick appendages, as 
well as two antennae as fine as threads. Behind 
these antennae were placed two great eyes; between 
them were seen three others smaller, placed in 
the same transverse line. 




As the new-comer emerged from the darkness, 
she displayed two enormous legs, very strong and 
flat, enlarged towards the ends, and terminating 
in six claws, like the teeth of a saw, four turning 
outwards and two inwards. On her breast was 




a long soit of cuirass, almost circular, and covered 
with velvet ; on her back were two short cases, 
laid across and partly hiding two great wings 
folded to a point. 

I at once knew her, from having in my youth 



hunted her, and often unsuccessfully ; it was the 
mole-cricket. 

The insect advanced slowly, ready to return 
to her cave on the least alarm. Living alone she 
had become restless and suspicious, like all those 
who avoid company. Terrified where there was no 
danger, she was only happy in the dark, hanging 
to the feeding roots of some plant, or attacking 
with blows of her claws a wretched earth-worm 
too lazy to escape. 

Why had this misanthrope left her peaceful, 
safe harbour to venture herself into the meadow ? 

The silver bell tinkled on, and its shrill note 
mingled with the sound of the wind among the 
leaves. The mole-cricket heard it with a shudder, 
stopped in uncertainty, and then resumed her 
march, guided by a mysterious power that she 
hardly tried to resist. Was it magnetism, or 
fascination, or combined of both ? A little of it, 
and something more ; for the silver sounds that 
rang around the strange creature were her 
' wedding-bells. Her cruel nature could only be 



softened by spring, with its warm air and 
opening flowers. 

At any other season, very far from greeting 
favourably the elegant gentleman who was now 
tinkling at his own door, she would have rushed ; 
at him and torn his face. To-day, not so warlike, 
almost mild, she passed to the nuptial meeting. 

As the spouses drew nearer, the silver bell 
rang less loudly and more airily. The motions of 
the wings of the male, violent of late, which 
produced this curious sound, grew feebler by 
degrees. He was hid under the grass, and my 
mole-cricket too disappeared there. I heard two 
or three more indistinct and plaintive notes, and 
then the meadow was 'quite quiet. 

At this moment my sensations were indescri- 
bable. Proud of the wonderful perfection of my 
eyesight, and Bearing, rejoicing in these new 
faculties, I wondered how I could ever have lived 
so long nearly blind and half deaf. - Nothing 
now escaped my notice, and all nature found a 
reflection in me, with an especial clearness and 



precision. I was in a state of beatitude, some- 
times felt, but seldom when in perfect health. I 
was alive, and thought, and yet did not feel my 
body any longer. Pain or pleasure was not felt 
in it, as I wandered like a spirit through the 
regions of dream and fancy. Again the grass 
was disturbed, and the mole-cricket returned 
towards me, thrusting itself through the grass, 
and making its way towards the slope of ground. 
When she got a few inches away from her former 
mansion, she extended her great palms and began 
to scratch the earth. Soon an excavation was 
made, lengthened into a perpendicular shaft, then 
turned towards the left at a slight slope. The 
work was done quickly and energetically. 

When this first operation was complete, the 
insect set to work to burrow horizontally, and 
made a small oval chamber, carefully smoothing 
its walls. This was not far under ground, 
between two great roots of the Pear-Tree, and 
not beyond the influence of the heat of the sun. 
There, believing herself secure from interruption, 



the mole-cricket laid about a hundred eggs, 
almost transparent, gelatinous, and of a greenish 
tint. Burial was not enough ; they must be pro- 
tected from marauders. This was provided by the 
careful mother making fortifications round them, in- 
trenchments, ramparts, and covered ways. Satisfied 
with her work, she took post as sentry not far off, 
ready, at the least alarm, to come to the rescue. 

A number of very busy ants were always 
passing, to and fro on the trunk of the old Pear- 
Tree, mounting to the first branches and coming 
down again, for ever repeating the same evolutions. 
I watched one in particular, climbing among the 
lichens and mosses, and searching everywhere with 
its antennae, using them indeed as feelers. At a 
certain height she stopped at once before a kind 
of whitish shell, half hidden between two bite of 
bark. She went round it, and felt it all over, 
pressed it between her paws, and gnawed at it 
in a fever of impatience. 

We will shortly give the history of this egg 
so greedily sought for. 





If an idler had stopped under our old Pear- 
Tree in the first months of summer, he might 
have remarked a sort of woodlouse of liliputian 
dimensions, moving under the leaves and on the 
twigs of the plant ; it had two horns, six feet, 
and a body composed of six rings, and was powdery 
all over. This individual had among othei 
peculiarities an impossible mouth, situated on its 
chest between the first pair of legs. It was 
composed of a sort of hillock or pipe of flesh, 
very short, and proceeding from it a very long 
thin white thread. By this pipe does the little 
creature take its nourishment, thrusting it deeply 
into the vegetable tissues. Our false woodlouse 
with a Greek name, aphis, after wandering some 
time free and happy, settled down, and placed 
itself in a well-sheltered spot. There it remained 
motionless, tired of adventures, without leaving 
the spot. Those limbs, lately so supple, grew stiff 
for want of employment, and at last their use 
was lost. At the end of winter it would have 
perished without sign of life or movement if 




plucked from its retreat. Once fixed, it had 
become larger and stronger, and grown to the 
size of a small bean. As the skin stretched, the 
wrinkles disappeared, and the aphis became n 
slightly oblong lump. 

Our wretched insect thus entered on the last 
stage of its existence. One day this half dead, 
oblong lump began to lay eggs; and as these, 
passing under it, were collected beneath, the shell 
which served them as a wrapper covered them. 
At last it made the plunge from life to death, 
having outlasted the male with his light trans- 
parent wings. 

Then this white shell, hanging between two 
pieces of bark, was the cradle of a generation. 
No wonder now at the excitement of the greedy 
ant at discovering this treasure. Inside were 
many eggs of a reddish colour, hard and shining, 
protected from the cold by a coverlet, like cotton, 
of a white sticky powder. The robber was hard 
at work with her mandibles, . when one of her 
own kind, likewise on quest since morning, all at 





once appeared, and made one spring towards the 
aphis. 

Between the disputants ensued a long discourse ; 
they angrily rubbed their horns against each other, 
clearly remonstrating with one another. At last 
victory declared for the right of the first comer, 
but not -without a violent debate : while the 
intruder yielded unwillingly, without giving up a 
pleasant hope of future fortune, were it no better 
than the gleanings of another's field. Eetiriug a 
couple of inches from the shell, she turned her 
head away with so sad and confused an air that 
I could not help repeating Pliny's words : " In 
formicd non modo sensus sed etiam mens, ratio, 
memoria" That is to say, he attributes to my 
ant mind, reasoning power, and memory. This 
scene was often repeated, and soon around the 
aphis was gathered a ring of anxious -watchers, 
while in the centre the first-comer reigned with 
unrivalled grandeur. She had possession, and 
made a brave defiance to the opposition, with 
fierce gestures of her mandibles, eyes flaming, and 


eloquent antennae. All this was very much like 
parliament, I do assure you, and I fancied I heard 
her say, like one great minister of times gone by 
. . . but just at present I cannot remember his 
speech. Besides, I never understood anything in 
politics, except that it is a science that all the 
world lays claim to knowing, without the trouble 
of learning. I can only answer for one thing, 
that our ant proved to her own satisfaction the 
goodness of her cause, but without convincing her 
antagonists that they were in the wrong. 

Do not those who are lucky enough to be 
formed in the great school of life act much in 
this way, with more or less of talent than the 
victorious ant ? 



CHAPTER III. 

A TRAGEDY IN THE GRASS. 

NEXT came a cockchafer, big, heavy, and 
rough-footed, tumbling about like a comfortable 
citizen who has stayed too long at the public- 
house, and is going home a good deal too late, 
and pretty well scared at being alone. He took 
long steps but did not get on much, for he was 
blinded by the sunlight, and his great tail dragged 
in the sand. At first sight one would have thought 
that he had been feasting too deeply on "the 
branches of the old Pear-Tree, and that some 
drops of dew had disturbed his brain. Yet this 
idea would have been very incorrect ; for in truth 



the poor creature was only dazzled, and certainly 
so might any one have been in his place, for he 
had just made his entrance into the world. 

Four years before, on a fine June evening, 
his mother had dug a trench in the ground at 
the foot of the great tree, and laid some oblong 
eggs in it of a pale yellow colour. When she had 
satisfactorily accomplished this, returning above 
ground she inhaled the balmy breaths of air in 
a melancholy mood ; arid after having spent a 
few days on a leafy branch, at last fell from it 
and died amid the stalks of a forget-me-not. 

She had laid her eggs side by side ; and as 
time went by, and they felt the reviving in- 
fluences of spring, they gradually changed their 
colour. At last thence issued certain six-footed 
white larvae, and among them our cockchafer, 
then only a humble worm a kind of false cater- 
pillar with five rings. His head was scaly, hard, 
and rather brown ; there were two great eyes in 
it, and it had strong jaws, finished off by a pair 
of short antennae. 


Almost with his first breath of life began 
sharp twinges in the region of the stomach, and 
lie set ravenously to work, with a fierce burning, 
insatiable appetite. He grew and changed his 




skin while feeding on savoury roots ; careless 
of what might happen around him, so long as 
he was continually devouring. 


There are such beings, whose heart and brain 
are only other forms of the intestinal canal. 
Speak not to them of art or science, of litera- 
ture or questions of religion ; they neither under- 
stand, nor know, nor hear anything of them ; 
they only eat. 

Thus our larva had gone on eating, and 
eating to the best of his power, everything he 
met with for many months. But his appetite 
relaxed its tyranny as the fourth year drew to 
its close. Then changing his views, he looked 
forth, and was sensible of ambition. In prepa- 
ration for a change, he penetrated deep beneath 
the ground, and there constructed a smooth and 
polished chamber remote from curious glances. 
There he remained torpid until the month of 
February, having once more cast his vulgar skin 
and. changed into a chrysalis, and waked at last 
into a cockchafer, but a soft and white cockchafer. 

The different parts of his body gradually 
gained hardness and strength, and he issued 
from his cell, a joyous insect, but withal some- 




what clumsily, like a countryfied gentleman in 
new clothes mixing among persons of rank. 

Behold him marching forth in public, stretch- 




ing his legs with the airs of a provincial dandy 
freshly launched upon the town. He is in haste, 
after his long sojourn in the dark, to enjoy the 




verdure as it sparkles in the dew. But there is 
a stumbling-block in his way, and he stops in 
surprise. His path is barred by a rock, possibly 
only a pebble. Anybody but a cockchafer would 
go round ; but ours is an enterprising hero, and 
would attempt an escalade. The first attempts at 
first are unsuccessful, for the surface of the stone 
is as smooth as glass. He perseveres, waves his 
great arms in despair, raises himself heavily, and 
after balancing a moment in the air, his head 
turns, and he rolls on his back in the dust, 
abashed and astonished, bruised all over by his 
fall. 

Never, no, never has such a rebuff fallen 
under my notice. Can you imagine the feelings 
of a bachelor of arts finding that there is more 
left for him to learn 1 Have you probed the sen- 
sations of a would-be member, cast back upon 
common life from dreams of becoming the creator 
of his country's happiness by consulting his own? 

These disappointments, these troubles, these 
rebuffs were quite a bed of roses compared to 



what one poor sheath-winged friend appeared to 
feel. To mark his entrance into the world, after 
three years spent in devouring with feverish 
haste, after a most artistic change into a chry- 
salis, and bearing a multitude of privations for 







u whole winter, by such an astounding somer- 
sault, it was sad and heart-breaking ; and yet 
what is more common, among insects at least ? 
In climbing the mountain too many pebbles of the 
plain are to be met with, and more cockchafers 
than one encounter that hard fate. 



However that may be, the poor creature 
struggled in vain to get up. Whilst he lay on 
the sand, crushed into despair, the grass was 
disturbed a short distance from where he lay, 
and made visible a magnificent beetle, with head 
and breast of a splendid golden green, of the 
most brilliant lustre. The wing-cases were 
channelled by three large furrows, and rose in 
an elevated form. The furrows between the 
ridges were more brilliant than the edges of the 
wing-cases, and the corselet was heart-shaped. 
The eyes were brown, antennae and feet fawn- 
coloured, and abdomen greenish black with slightly 
gilded specks. 

It was easy to see that here was a somewhat 
important personage ; an old acquaintance of 
the illustrious Linnaeus, who had conferred on 
him the title of Carabus viridis, whom the 
profane call by the more familiar name of 
predatory beetle.

He too, as well as our miserable cockchafer, 



traced his growth from a larva ; but what a larva 
it was ! Long, round, soft, white, with six scaly 
feet. There was armour on the back of his head 
a round plate of a brown colour, a sort of 
natural buckler and in front of it a greedy mouth 
furnished with two strong jaws. He never lived 
on roots, but on raw and bleeding flesh. To 
obtain this choice nourishment recourse was had 
to deception, and he dug a pitfall, with his own 
head for the lid of it. Anything that passed 
over this moveable surface could not help falling 
into the gulf, where it was torn to pieces by 
teeth and claws. 

One of his relations, the larva of the square 
gold predatory beetle (Cardbus amatus), does the 
same with less trouble. He just places himself 
in a nest of processionary caterpillars, and eats 
them up at leisure. 

Our predatory beetle, on assuming his final 
shape, had not altered his manners. Not only 
was he always clad in complete armour for war, 
but even had received from nature a new weapon 



of offence, being provided with an acrid, burning 
liquor that he could cast upon his foes; a real 
insect of prey, Living by rapine and destruction, 
active, alert, and vigorous, full of courage and 
ferocity. 

The moment that he set eyes on the still 
prostrate cockchafer, he rushed on it with incon- 
ceivable nimbleness, dug his claw into its body, 
and, horrible to relate, was devouring it like a 
ferocious tiger. I felt a great desire to crush 
him with a stone, and make an application of the 
law of retribution. But what could I do as I lay 
torpid ? Was not my own life in danger ? True, 
I had been a man, and as such one of the lords 
of creation ; but was I so still ? All was altered 
around me, and my ideas were not so very clear. 
Had I any right to kill this creature I, whose 
neighbours raise sheep and oxen, cherish these 
animals, feed and pet them, to end by cutting 
their throats or breaking their heads with a pole- 



axe ? 



The cockchafer was at the point of death ; his 





feet only moved feebly. Why, destitute of beak 
and claws, was lie rash enough to enter a world 
unfit for him ? Why had he scorned the humble 
lot of larvae, to mix with the aristocrats, to 
whom he was fated to fall a victim ? The 
Carabus, his head buried in the bleeding body, 
smeared with the sap of life, enjoyed his piece 
of luck, when one of my little ants on a 
foraging expedition appeared on the scene of 
slaughter. Instantly, with wonderful perception, 
she understood the scene. She rose on her fore- 
feet, raised her antennae in astonishment, lowered 
them, and slipped through the grass in haste 
towards the scene of conflict. 

What was she going to do 1 Did she desire, 
like a jackal], to gather up the crumbs of this 
lion's feast ? Was she not rash in venturing so 
near the high and mighty Carabus Viridis ? 

I followed all her movements with the great- 
est curiosity. She drew near the pre-occupied 
Carabus, made a circuit round him, climbed on 
his back, and furiously attacking him at the 



chink of his armour between head and corselet 
made him let go his prey. The Carabus, enraged 
at this sudden assault, made violent efforts to get 
rid of his enemy ; but she clung tight, and 
grievously vexed him with bites. At last he 
became alarmed, made a furious bound, left 
his victim, and rushed into a thicket, quite weary 
and out of breath. This was doubtless just 
what the ant wanted ; for, slipping down along 
her adversary's wing-covers, she set herself to 
watch. 

This scene had passed so quickly that I had 
hardly time to consider it. The ant remained 
motionless, raising her fore-feet in a vigilant 
attitude. 

I soon saw why. Lord Carabus Viridis, 
astounded only for the moment by the violent 
assault he had suffered from, had ceased to 
retreat, and returned to the charge. No one, 
however great a philosopher he may be, will- 
ingly gives up a good meal, especially if he has 
been up with the dawn, and has not yet had 



his breakfast. He looked in doubt from right to 
left, saw nothing suspicious, and sprang back to 
his place by the cockchafer. 

The ant was on the look-out for him. Swift 
as lightning she fastened on him again, found a 
new way through the joints of his armour, and 
pricked him so sharply that he shrank with pain, 
and in his turn rolled on the ground. Rising 
painfully, conquered, disgraced, completely out of 
sorts, he scampered off at his best pace, this time 
with no notion of returning. 

The ant remained victorious on the field of 
battle. 

" In formica non tnodo sensus, sed etiam 
mens, ratio, memorial Mind had triumphed over 
brute force. 

" Brave and honoured ant ! " I cried in trans- 
port ; " she has a noble heart, whatever the grass- 
hopper may say. There she comes, like the 
knight-errant of song, to succour the feeble arid 
oppressed. This burning sympathy for the suf- 
ferer, this active and devoted charity, implies 



generous and lofty sentiments. May Heaven 
confound detractors ! " 

Alas ! my enthusiasm did not last long. My 
ant was of the positivist school, and thought of 
nothing less than the glory of a generous action. 
When she found herself alone, she came softly 
and steadily up to the cockchafer and set to 
work on him with a good appetite. When she 
found she had eaten enough, her journey was 




resumed ; till meeting another of her kind, she 
immediately made a communication to her by the 
contact of antennae. The new-comer too at once 
retraced her steps, while the first calmly resumed 



her place by the body. A moment later I saw 
a quantity of ants arrive from all the paths traced 
round the blades of grass in hastening waves, 
marching fiercely, like a division on an expedition. 
The cockchafer was soon covered with them, so 
that I could hard]y see him. They minced him 
up, they crumbled him to bits, and in a few 
moments nothing was left of the poor w r retch but 
a pair of horny wings, some braised legs, and his 
corselet half buried in the sand. "Sic transit 
gloria mundi ! " All is dust and will return to 
dust. Will the cockchafer grubs take warning by 
the sad fate of one of them ? will they live for the 
future in a more retired manner, taking thought 
that if obscurity is less joyful than broad day, 
it affords also greater safety ? In a word, will they 
be wiser than most ' men 'I None can tell. 




CHAPTER IT. 



SUBTERRANEAN CITIES. 

NOTHING conduces to meditation so much as 
silence, and all sound had died away around me. 
So I reflected on the late events, and the result 
was that I all at once cried out, running the 
risk of rousing the surrounding echoes : 

" Of all the creatures that fly in the air, 
Swim in the sea, or tread earth so fair, 
From Paris and Rome to Peru and Japan, 
The most foolish beast, as I think, is man." 

The lines are Boileau's, but I applied them to 
myself, and had good reason for putting faith 
in them. 



"What!"! went on, "did I indeed find fault 
with a foolish caterpillar, because it was disturbed 
with a notion of rising in life in obedience to 
the instinct of improving its condition ? Am I 
no longer an ardent disciple of the great mindn 
who have proclaimed the doctrine of continual 
progress, and must I take my place among the 
company of meditative admirers of routine ? " 

Taking everything into consideration, our cock- 
chafer had made only one mistake, and that de- 
stroyed him, he went away from his kind. The 
eagle, the lion, the tiger, live alone enfolded in 
their own fierce royalty, but this condition only 
suits peculiar natures. Little creatures should 
assemble and increase their power by combina- 
tion. Divided, they fall a prey to the strong ; 
yet, united, their power is invincible. Hercules, 
the conqueror of the Erymanthian boar, would 
have been put to flight by a legion of ants. 

As we are on the subject of ants, let us pay 
them a-, visit and endeavour to penetrate some of 
their secrets. Our friends of the great Pear-Tree, 




as we have before pointed out, were of the black 
race. Their city was placed at the edge of a 
path, about two yards from the tree. 

They had then made excavations and dug 
long galleries underground, sustaining the roof 
by employing roots as pillars. The walls of 
their habitation were quite smooth and perfectly 
regular. 

When once our ants were under ground they 
penetrated more deeply into the earth, and 
added a second and third story to their abode. 
Precautions had to be taken against everything 
the cold of winter, the increase of population, 
and the damage that might be caused by tor- 
rents of rain. Such a building as theirs, so 
solidly supported, presented great advantages for 
withstanding such calamities. 

Most irreproachable order reigned in the colony 
that we are describing. Labour was held in high 
esteem, and each one who took his share always 
in turn applied himself to the public good. The 
needs of the society were supplied by hunting, 






and, contrary to the generally-received opinion, 
no provision was made for winter. The workers 
or neuters that is to say, the most active mem- 




bers of the tribe issued at daybreak to attack 
anything eatable. Fruits, seeds, dead animals, 
nothing came amiss to them. At times, as we 



have seen, they fell upon a living insect, and 
tried to take possession of it. If they did not 
find that they were strong enough to do what 
they wanted, they sent to seek for assistance, 
and their victim was soon brought down, yielding 
to force of numbers and unable to escape them. 
The enemy, eager for his destruction, not only 
employed their mandibles like crowbars and pin- 
cers, but also an acrid irritating liqutr, called by 
chemists formic acid, which has a most violent 
poisonous action. 

With the approach of cold our ants retire 
into their galleries, and close the mouths of them 
with great care. Then collecting in their larger 
chambers, heaped close on each other, they fall 
into a deep torpor. What would be the use in 
collecting provisions they would not know what 
to do with ? They have no need of them, and 
await in their subterranean palace the return of a 
more mild and genial season. 

Is not the story of the Sleeping Beauty in 
the Wood, so charming in its simple grace, a 



leaf borrowed from my book ? Good heavens ! 
what are we coming to if the fairy tales, to which 
envious pedants of our day object on the pre- 
text that they hinder children of two years old 
from taking a fancy to mathematics, are be- 
coming realities ? 

The workers are not devoted to the chase 
alone. A great number of them, less warlike 
but not less useful, have other cares. Before 
we speak of these, in order better to understand 
their importance, let us make another descent 
into their city, as we have only yet studied its 
borders. 

In some tolerably spacious chambers we see 
a crowd of eggs piled close together. They are 
of different shapes and colours. The smallest 
are round, white, and opaque ; the larger are more 
transparent, and have one end slightly curved. 
Others, of medium size, are semi-opaque, and a 
sort of white cloud is visible within, longer or 


shorter. Around these watch with anxiety and 
(are the workers we have alluded to. Standing 



high on their fore-feet, there they are ready to 
defend their charge. Some are engaged in open- 
ing the entries and kneading the ground, while 
others remain inactive. If the sun lights up the 
outside of the nest, the sentinels placed outside 
nastily descend to the bottom of the habitation, 
strike their comrades with their antennae, seize 
on those who seem not to understand them, 
and drag them to the top. 

Soon the whole is in commotion. The larvae 
and nymphae that spring from the eggs before- 
mentioned are borne with all haste to the sur- 
face of the ant-hill to receive the rays of the 
sun. After an interval they are returned to 
chambers where there is a warm temperature, 
but where they are protected from too glaring 
light. When the star of day is veiled with 
clouds, or sinks beneath the horizon, the larvae are 
gathered up again and conveyed to the galleries. 

The larva of the black ant is like a little 
worm with black feet, fat, short, and conical. 
The body tapers and bends towards the fore- 



part, and is composed of a scaly head and 
twelve rings. The mouth presents two hooks, 
above which are seen four little points, two on 
each side, besides a little round protuberance by 
which the creature receives his portion. The 
workers give it to him every day, and there is 
nothing more curious than to see the young 
larvse reaching out with difficulty, and trying to 
draw near to their nurse in order to receive 
from her mandibles the nourishing fluid she 
has prepared for them. 

Such care must necessarily produce excellent 
results. The larvae having become large and fat, 
end by refusing all nourishment, and spin them- 
selves a shell of silk of a close texture, very 
smooth, round, and pale yellow. Beneath the 
protection of this elegant case they tear off their 
skin, and afterwards appear in all points^ like the 
perfect insect. But their limbs are still weak 
and delicate, and would be incapable of exertion. 
They remain motionless, pass from white to pale 
yellow, then to russet, and in some species 



brown or nearly black. This is the moment 
awaited by the workers. They then approach, 
and with their mandibles make a cleft in the 
shell and divide it from top to bottom. They 

remove the satin pellicle that envelopes our little 
mummy, pull out its benumbed feet, support, 
encourage it, and teach it the way through all 
the labyrinths of the nest. 

The power of the tribe, already on a firm 
basis, becomes freshly developed. Some brilliant 
black flies, with their delicate wings in continual 
motion, make their appearance among the workers. 
These are the male and female population of the 
colony, which must some day face abroad, and 
go to establish new families at a distance. 

These winged ants, issuing from darkness, born 
under ground, appear to have some presage of 
their future destiny. They are anxious and rest- 
less, searching for an issue to the light, blue sky, 
and wide open space that they feel must exist. 
They take but little interest in what passes around 
them ; their hopes direct them to another life. 




How much to be pitied would they be were they 
endowed with such instincts in human society ! 

People would say to them, "Why do you 
weary us with your senseless desires, your wishes, 
your doubts, and compel us to think of a lot of 
things we have nothing to do with ? Submit to 
the common lot of labour, and give up these 
foolish fancies." 

These are wise counsels, and yet what would 
become of the ant-hill unless some of these winged 
creatures were born there from time to time ? 
What would society be did not some adventurous 
and rash individuals occasionally quit the beaten 
track that leads to security, and make excursions 
over hill and dale at the risk of falling into a 
quagmire ? The footpath is the predecessor of a 
main road, and it is very necessary for some one 
first to trace it out if one is not to go for ever 
in one unvarying circle. I think- 
But what events are passing in our under- 
ground city ? The winged ants, in ever-increasing 
numbers, advance in crowds towards the different 



exits, endeavouring to escape from the ant-hill. 
The workers resist, clinging to them, and en- 
deavouring to retain them by force. It seems as 
if every grain of sand were changed into a living 
black mass, and to join in the struggle. Nothing 
can be seen in the dim light but bodies entangled, 
heads armed with mandibles, and the glancing of 




transparent wings. The disturbance extends, be- 
comes general, and ascends to the surface of the 
ground. 

Beautiful and poetical allegories have been 
made about this annual departure, with all its 
touching varied incidents. 




Often has it been said, "Do not these winged 
airy beings, so eager to be independent, and desirous 
of pleasure, represent joyous and thoughtless youth ? 
And are not these workers, faithful and devoted, 
taught so much by pain and labour, the living re- 
presentation of experience and good sense ? Trem- 
bling for those they love, they would still detain 
them, provide them against impending danger, and 
show them that together with liberty arises indi- 
vidual responsibility, increasing in like proportion. 
They are no longer listened to ; the flood swells, 
rises, and will soon burst the dykes." 

This idea is elegant, but not correct. If the 
neuter ants are full of sense, they have not the 
futile wisdom of the schoolmaster in La Fontaine, 
who made a long discourse to the drowning boy 
instead of lending him a helping hand. They 
understand the impatient burning desires of their 
winged companions, and only temporarily oppose 
their migration in order to ensure its success. If 
a ray of the sun appears, a clear warm sky, or 
a fine day, the barriers are removed, the gates 



opened, and the whole band impatiently rising at 
once, fly in clouds into the air. 

Our ants have obtained their freedom, and 
wander joyfully in space. Does not the young 
girl at her first ball feel as if she were in ethereal 
realms of poetry ? Does she wish to know what 
happens to the insect, small though it be, attired 
like her for the great summer season ? 

The ants flit backwards and forwards, charmed 
with their emancipation, and happy in the act of 
living. Each seeks for one to love, and thus they 
meet at last in a blaze of light beneath the blue 
sky, amid the harmony of nature. Then they stop 
in their rapid flight, shake their wings, and 
find them useless. Of what further service would 
they be except to fly from happiness ? A bride, 
a wife, a mother, must dream no longer ! such is 
our ant's opinion ! 

Why should they have wrings when stationary 
for ever ? Our insects resolutely make the sacrifice, 
and tear them off by waving them, so as to weaken 
the muscles which unite them to the corselet, and 



inching them off with their legs. Thus they are 
uin upon the ground, walking with difficulty 
amoW the leaves, and prepared to struggle with 
the realities of life. 

While they had wings their only thought was 
pleasure. Their duties on touching the earth 
become higher, nobler, and purer ; they have to 
perpetuate their race. 

If their wayward flight has not led them too 
far from their native ant-hill, the workers at once 
Assemble round them, to cherish, protect, and con- 
duct them back to the galleries, where they be- 
come real objects of worship, for maternity makes 
them sacred. They are 'overwhelmed with atten- 
tions, and even carried from one place to another. 
The body of the female is hooked up and sus- 
pended from the mandibles of her bearer, and 
rolled like a butterfly's trunk. It is twisted so 
well under the corselet of the worker as 'not to 
inconvenience its motions. At times they think 
it enough to drag her ; but if the ant entrusted 
with this burthen becomes weary, another takes 



the place, and the moment she is thus laid down 
the female is surrounded by her court, all showing 
their affection. The eggs as soon as produced 
are gathered and brought together round the 
mother. 

Such is the lot of the most fortunate ; but 
the wind bears others far away from their native 
spot, and they find they are left to their own 
resources ; but, stimulated by maternal affection, 
they do not recoil from the arduous task imposed 
on them. Alone, without helpers, they make 
abodes for themselves, lay their eggs, then watch 
over them, and bring up the larvae. 

The attachment of worker ants for their females 
appears to extend beyond their existence. When a 
mother dies, five or six of her followers remain 
near her, brush or lick her without ceasing for 
several days, and seem as if they wished to raise 
her again to life by thus attending on her. 

Such was the political economy of the society 
of black ants established at the foot of our great 
Pear-Tree. We have seen how they construct their 



habitations, bring up their families, and perpetuate 
their race. 

To complete this study and make it more in- 
teresting, we will collect in a subsequent chapter 
some details on other tribes of ants, whose works 
are most curious. Some of them too live in my 
meadow, and their habits bring them likewise 
round the great tree. Thence arise terrible com- 
bats, bloody encounters, and fields covered with 
dead and wounded. What a strange business it 
is ! At times the ants themselves declare war 
upon one another, for it is not the nations of mer 
alone who have their victories or suffer defeats. 


CHAPTER V. 

AN EXCURSION INTO THE HYMENOPTEROUS WORLD. 

.ONE fine summer day when I was just sixteen, 
I took ifc into my head to produce a masterpiece. 
Sixteen is the era of such plans ; but they are 
more easily conceived than executed, although 
they may be fair in the germ. They generally 
come into the world with such grave faults of 
construction, that they are at last found to be 
hardly substantial enough to arrive at full age. 
At any rate I seized my pen at once, for I had 
no doubts of myself nor of others, and I wrote 
a very fanciful poem, in which all created beings 
flung themselves into a Bacchanalian ecstasy. In 
it I represented the animals holding festival and 



frolic, dancing and gambolling from morning to 
night, and man among them all, their master and 
their king, the only worker, weary with the noise 
of their everlasting merriment. 

The moral to be deduced from such an idea 
can be easily perceived. On the one hand, life 




but for a day, joys of a moment, fleeting plea- 
sures soon interrupted by death ; on the other, 
deep meditation, consideration for the future, 
heroic sacrifices, indefinite perfectibility .purchased 
at the price of great sufferings. 

I had just put the finishing stroke to my 


composition, and it had assumed a sufficiently 
presentable shape, with the slight drawbacks of 
a few bad rhymes, a few halting lines, several 
inflated passages in bad taste, a great many re- 
dundant adjectives, and a thousand more details 
neglected in the manufacture, when I all at once 
perceived that the beasts these poor beasts whom 
I had so maligned themselves too had to undergo 
severe labour, and were obliged to toil as wearily 
for their livelihood as ourselves. 

First, the mole, a prudent creature notwith- 
standing her supposed blindness, showed me that 
she had to burrow in the earth to find her food. 
Then I remembered that the beaver is a clever 
engineer, and that the spider has nothing to learn 
from our weavers. Besides, I called to mind the 
green woodpecker, that has to pierce the trees 
with hundreds of blows of its beak before it can 
obtain its food ; and I deliberated with fear on 
the quantity of kicks, bites, and blows endured 
by an individual of the feline race before the 
close of her existence. 



Certainly I Lad set out on a wrong track, and 
was just about to make myself very ridiculous 
with a foolish poem under my arm. Yet let it 
not be supposed that I was totally discouraged by 
this discovery. At sixteen one is not cast down 
by such a trifle, and my resolution was soon 
taken. I instantly commenced another wurk, not 
less remarkable than the first, in which I showed 
that man, far from being superior to the other 
animals, owes to them all his inventions. 

I did not then know my meadow ; or what a 
likeness could I have traced between the black 
or tawny ants contending for the hunting-grounds, 
of which my old Pear-Tree forms the centre, and 
certain tribes of Indians ! 

Lonely expeditions in the forest, the discovery 
of a trail, attacks, surprises, prudent retreats, 
furious combats, capture of prisoners what ad- 
ventures to describe ! Happily for the reader I 
am past sixteen, and will go straight to my facts 

The tawny ants are divided into two great 
nations, distinguished by their colour, which is 


in greater or less proportions of black or red. 
The first inhabit by choice the large woods, and 
make their home among the fern ; the others 
establish themselves in hedges and meadows. 
Otherwise their habits are almost alike. 

The dwellings of these ants are, composed 
of pieces of stubble, morsels of wood, pebbles, 
half broken shells, and of all substances of easy 
transport that they can lay their hands on. 
They even pick up grains of wheat, barley, and 
oats as building material, and this has given the 
notion of their making magazines of provisions 
for winter use. Their architects are very skilful, 
and invest their city with the form of a little 
mountain or dome, with buttresses above the 
ground so that the rain-water may the easier 
run off, and not cause irreparable ravages. Our 
insects are prudent, and wish to protect themselves 
from over-sudden changes of temperature. The 
greatest portion of the nest is hidden, and extends 
more or less deeply Tindtr ground. Avenues, of 
funnel shape but irregular, lead from the top of 


the building to the interior. In number they are 
proportioned to the population of the colony, and 
they are also larger or smaller at their opening. 
Occasionally a great street, the central artery of 
daily movement, passes from one end to the other 
of the hill ; many roads, of nearly equal size are 
often found there, and narrow passages all around 
them conducting to the different quarters- of the- 
city. 

Light is agreeable to the tawny ants,, and they 
care not for the presence of man. They run 
about all day if the sky is clear, and go home- 
at the approach of bad weather, or at nightfall. 
They may then be seen carrying little stakes, 
which they plant in the rampart of chaff in 
order to close up the entrances of their galleries, 
after which they fetch some more smaller ones, 
which they place crosswise against the first. The 
barricades thus formed are strengthened with a 


covering of dry leaves, and the ants are at home. 
As soon as the city gates are shut sentries are 
placed there to watch over the general security, 





and the rest of the tribe take their repose. 
When dawn returns animation recommences ; ' the 
sentries are relieved, the galleries re-opened, and 




the general thoroughfares restored. These works 
are done regularly morning and evening through the 
summer season, unless it is decidedly rainy weather. 




In this case the inhabitants of the ant-hill do 
not pursue their usual course, and their doors 
remain closed. 

Such is the nature of the city of the tawny 
ants ; let us see how they proceed in constructing 
it. Their builders are at work, and do not take 
any further notice of us than if we were not 
lords of creation ! The word is given. They 
have a consultation, and begin by excavating in 
the earth a smaller or larger cavity. Some of the 
ever-industrious workers go to seek materials in 
the vicinity fit for the construction of the ex- 
terior works, and arrange them, not indeed with 
symmetry, but with care to .defend the entrance 
of their future habitation. Others bring portions 
of the earth that they have dug up in making 
the excavation before spoken of, combine them 
with the materials already laid, and take pains 
to fill the spaces and make the -building strong. 
To judge from the outside one would think that 
it was a solid mass, but we know that it is not 
so. The interior is gradually hollowed, and soon 


divided into several stages, and penetrated by 
galleries which, though low and rudely constructed 
perfectly fulfil their object of serving as a place 
of security for the larvae and nymphse. By 
degrees a large hall of magnificent proportions 
is raised in the centre of the city. It is much 
larger than the other chambers, and the ceiling 
is sustained by great beams curiously supporting 
one another. All the galleries lead to it, and the 
popular assemblies are there held. 

Another tribe of ants, the soldier or sanguine, 
are much like the tawny ants ; the heads and 
antennae of the neuters are of a tawny red, their 
abdomen ash-coloured black. Their habitations are 
composed of earth mixed with bits of leaves, blades 
of grass, moss, and little stones, and are generally 
found in hedges lying towards the south. They 
present this remarkable fact to be observed, that 
living side by side with the proper sanguine popu- 
lation is another of helots or slaves, condemned 
to the more laborious tasks. It is a mixed 
society, rendered very formidable to its neigh- 


bours by its military organization, and whose 
warriors have acquired much fame in the world 
of hymenoptera by their impetuous valour. 

Behold them making a foray traversing any 
great hollows in the ground, with mandibles raised 
on high, and glaring eyes, seeking their enemies ! 
Suddenly they perceive some forms of ash-coloured 
black, from a colony not far from- them. 

This colony is of the humblest sort, for the 
population who have formed it only possess one 
simple and rude ark. They excavated the ground, 
and, bringing it grain by grain, formed a vault 
and covered the gate of the city. Then under 
the vault the workers made trenches at different 
distances, and of a nearly equal depth. The 
rampart of earth between them is treated with 
care to serve as a support for the walls and par- 
titions of the abodes. It is not very fine archi- 
tecture, but what can a wretched insect do with 
no chisel save its teeth, or compasses save its an- 
tennoe, or any other trowel than its fore-feet \ 

Poor and humble as it is, this ant-hill is 


observed by the soldiers, and having held a council 
of war, they determine to lay siege thereto. Some 
warriors, full of warlike ardour, advance at once 
to the camp of the ash-coloured blacks or negroes, 
and spread themselves around the entrance. Imme- 
diately the inhabitants of the menaced community 
are in great anxiety. They rush into their galleries 
to give the alarm, and advance in numbers, bravely 
rushing upon the intruders. An engagement 
ensues, and some over-venturesome sanguines are 
overwhelmed by numbers and carried into cap- 
tivity. Their companions are contented with 
defending their positions. Calm and confident in 
the success of their arms, they await reinforce- 
ments. Every moment small bands of their own 
party come to join and increase their numbers. 
By degrees they approach the camp of the 
negroes, and seem more willing to come to close 
quarters ; but the more they mingle with the 
besieged, the more they seem in haste to send 
couriers to their own nest. These last arrive in 
haste, deliver their message, give orders, and at 



THE HYMENOPTEROUS WORLD. 79 

once a new swarm starts to join the army. Yet 
the sanguines do not hasten to give battle, and 
only alarm the negroes by keeping their ground. 
The latter occupy a space of two square feet in 
front of their ant-hill ; the greater part of the 
nation has come forth to take part in the 
struggle. Around the parallels of attack are now 
to be seen individual conflicts,- and generally it 
is the besieged who attack the besiegers. A 
vigorous defenee might be expected, from the 
great numbers of the negroes, but they are not 
confident in their forces, and are oppressed by the 
thought of the Burslings confided to them, and of 
the methods of securing their republic from entire 
destruction. 

Long before the issue of the contest can be 
foreseen they may be observed carrying their 
larvae out of the caves, and heaping them lap at 
the side opposite to that assaulted. Thus they can 
more easily convey them off if r contrary to all ex- 
pectation, victory does not favour the right ! The 
young females also hurry in the same direction. 


It is only just in time, for the storm draws 
near, and the thunder will soon break in the 
midst of this terrified population. The soldiers, 
now in force, throw themselves on the enemy, 
attack them at all points, and even reach the 
dome of the city. The negroes, after a deter- 
mined conflict, give up the defence, arid, seizing 
the nymphse they had heaped together outside the 
ant-hill, raise them in their mandibles, and run 
off in all directions. The soldiers pursue them, 
and endeavour to carry off the treasure. In the 
midst of the -defeat some blacks with admirable 
devotion still resist, strive to penetrate into the 
low passages to convey off some larvae from 
thence, and are at least secure of the honour 
of perishing on the field of battle. 

Alas ! there is a moment when heroism 
becomes madness. The city is given over to be 
pillaged. The soldiers run all over it, seize 
the whole of the avenues, and seem as if they 
would take possession of the devastated nest. 
Dividing into squadrons, they proceed to carry 


off any larvae and nymphse that may have been 
loft behind. They establish a continuous chain 
from one habitation to the other, and employ 
the rest of the day in housing their plunder. 
At nightfall, when of necessity the work must 
cease, all is not yet under cover. This is pro- 
vided for ; a post of sanguines keeps watch in 
the city taken by assault to keep off other 
depredators. 

Next day at dawn they begin again to bear 
off their prey ; while the vanquished nation, 
resigned to their fate, found a new colony 
elsewhere. 

Every year these sanguine ants make five or 
six such expeditions to provide themselves with 
slaves and assistants. Born for fighting, they 
understand no domestic labours. It is their 
slaves to whom is entrusted the task of con- 
structing their galleries, of tending the larvae 
and nymphae, and of all the little labours of 
their common life. The negroes which have 
become captives have no idea of escaping from 


their conquerors. They receive them with delight 
as they come home from their hunting expeditions, 
and devote themselves to their service with un- 
alloyed zeal. 




Really, is not all this very strange? What! 
can miserable insects speak of their campaigns, 
recount their wounds, and boast of their ex- 



ploits ? Doubtless ! but our self-love need not 
take offence : they have not yet invented any 
needle-gun nor improved rifled cannon. Besides, 
they only fight when necessary, and do not know 
how to enjoy a triumph. We are more advanced 
in that way, thanks to our civilization ; not only 
do we fight when compelled by circumstances, 
but also for glory, the honour of the flag, and 
the pleasure of conquest. Indeed, as chronicles 
say, we often take up arms without knowing 
why, without even asking why. Such facts are 
enough to insure to us an unquestioned supe- 
riority over the wretched ants. 

The nation of sanguines not only owns slaves, 
but also breeds numerous herds. It is true that 
their cattle are not much like ours. They are 
of all colours, green, white, bronze, or pearl grey. 
Many browse peacefully on the old Pear-Tree, and 
they are as brown as if dipped in coffee. They are 
small insects, having six slender little feet. At 
the end of their solid potbellied bodies are found 
two tubes, terminated by a kind of mouth. 


Some of those insects have wings, and all have 
two long horns bent over their backs, and are 
fed by means of a trunk that they insert 
into vegetable tissues. 

Is not this description very plain, like all 
other descriptions ? In case the reader cannot 




find the answer to the riddle (which would be 
no surprise to us), we will make haste to explain 
it. The milch-cows of the ants are no other 
than plant-lice (aphides). 

Who has not seen them encircling flower 
stems, slipping under the bark of trees, assem- 



bling on the foot-stalk of leaves, in a hideous 
mass side by side, motionless, apparently almost 
inert, leaving round them sweet, sticky spots? The 
ants are very fond of this honey, which passes 
from two tubes we have described as adorning 
the bodies of the plant-lice. They climb to the 
highest branches to gather it, and force the 
insect that produces it to deliver it up to them 
by striking it with their antennae. The dark 
ants especially, and some other species, have 
recourse to this curious proceeding in order to 
obtain food. A few draughts are enough to 
satisfy them. The red ant dexterously seizes the 
little drop of liquor with the swollen extremity 
of the antennse, which she carries to her mouth, 
using these organs as though they really were 
fingers. 

The yellow ants, who hardly ever leave their 
underground dwellings, are always surrounded by 
a great number of plant-lice. Other species, at 
once more ingenious and more prudent, build 
special habitations for them, and collect them 



there. These houses are in different shapes. 
Sometimes they are like a sphere, with the stalk 
of a plant for its axis, and the lower part 
pierced with a very small hole. In other cases, 
when made by the red ants, they are composed 
of a pipe about two inches and a half long and 
nearly as large across. M. Huber, to whom we 
owe so many interesting observations on ants, 
found one of these cases intended for their 
cattle raised, five feet from the ground on a 
small branch of a poplar, just as it sprung from 
the trunk. It was composed of rotten wood, 
and consisted of a short blackish tube. The 
ants entered it from the inside of the tree by 
several excavations, and crept in through an 
opening made at the root of the branch without 
exposing themselves to the daylight. 

The plant-lice of the common plantain retire 
under the root leaves when the stem dries up. 
The ants follow them there, and shut themselves 
up with them by filling with moist earth all the 
intervals between the ground arid the edge of 



the leaves. Then excavating the soil beneath, 
they obtain more space for approaching the 




prisoners, and arrange galleries leading to their 
own dwelling. 

These works are not useless, for they secure 
them victuals for rainy days. Indeed the ants 


do not become torpid at less than two degrees 
below freezing, and when it is not cold their 
activity is not checked. At such times they 
would be in danger of perishing without especial 
resources. The plant-lice furnish what they want, 
and a most extraordinary fact they become 
torpid at the same temperature as their guardians, 
and awake from their lethargy at the same time 
as they do. The kinds of ants that have not 
the instinct of appropriating them to themselves 
at least know the spots where they are in hiding, 
and bring back to their companions the small 
quantity of honey they have gathered from them. 
They charitably distribute these liquid juices, 
whose evaporation is very slow, indeed almost 
insensible. 

The preservation of plant-lice is of so much 
importance to the ants that they even go and 
collect the eggs of these insects. This M. Huber 
has absolutely observed the yellow ants doing. 
They gather and guard these eggs, lick them conti- 
nually, cover them with a gluten that fastens them 



together, and, in short, perform all the cares 
necessary for their welfare. They perform this 
task so well that the precious germs bear fruit 
inside the ant-hill as well as in their natural 
position. 

Could one believe that a solitude is so replete 
with life without having studied the mysteries 
of a tuft of grass ? 



CHAPTER VI. 

WANDERING TRIBES. 

WHILE the labours of the ants were taking 
up my whole attention, the wind had gradually 
risen ; it bent the flexible stems of grass, and 
made them glitter in the sun like ribands of 
crystal with dazzling lustre. The aspect of 
the meadow changed, and my thoughts insensibly 
took another course. I ceased to observe what 
passed around me, to listen to the rustle of the 
grass, the buzzing of insects, and the thou- 
sand noises resounding through space, coming 
from no one knows where, rising, increasing^ 
and diminishing, and all blending together in an 
indefinable harmony. 



Some twigs of the old Pear-Tree were put slightly 
in motion, stretching their long pale green stems 
against the cloudy background of the sky; soon 
the young leaves began to flap, making gleams 
of reflecting light around ; then all were shaken 
at once, producing a heavy and prolonged sound 
like the distant echo of a church organ. One of 
them all at once was broken off from the branch 
it grew upon, was lifted and whirled about in 
the air, wandered for some time round my head, 
and at last fell near me on a tuft of wormwood 
reflecting pale silvery light. Its foot-stalk had 
been eaten away by some insect, and this had 
occasioned its fall before the early chills of 
autumn. On the outer side between two veins 
lay a ' sort of sheath of a brown colour and 
quite dried up. All round this sheath, too skil- 
fully constructed not to be a habitation, extended 
a white discoloured spot, making a marked inroad 
on the rest of the leaf, still green and fleshy. 

This sheath excited my curiosity, and I soon 
discovered the use of it. It served as a shelter 



to a little caterpillar belonging to the numerous 
and powerful family of Tinese. 

This little caterpillar, though common, is never- 
theless not easy to find. Like the Arab shepherds, 
it bears along with it a light tent, often changing 
its residence quits the realms of dearth and moves 
to those where food is abundant. Its tent is the 
sheath that protects its frail and delicate body 
from the attacks of its enemies ; the territory 
it roams over is a light leaf waving in the least 
breeze. Behold it, after one moment's astonish- 
ment at the aerial flight just performed, advancing 
with head down and tail in the air, all the time 
enclosed in. the sheath. At length it pauses, 
makes a slight cut in the leaf, and sliding between 
the two pellicles that form its surfaces, devours 
their contents. When all within reach is con- 
sumed, and it appears that no more nourishment 
can be obtained without entirely coming out of 
the sheath, it again sets out on its travels, 
again takes up a fresh position, and repeats the 
same manoeuvres. 



These sheaths are found not only on the pear 
but also on the elm, the alder, and on some other 
trees. When the constructors, who, though they 
are all of the same family, have different tastes, 
use notched leaves, they dispose the notches in 
such a way as to give the most curious appearance 
to their habitations. Their tent strongly resembles 




a miniature brown fi^fo, placed upright, and showing 
the profile of its long dorsal fin like a saw. 

If the Tineee are pulled out of their garment, 
they display the greatest distress, and set to 
work at once to make a new covering. They 
begin by passing the head between the two mem- 
branes of a leaf and lodge in its thickness. 
There they are under cover, and only have to 
cut out their coat. This must be made of two 





similar pieces united above and below them. The 
two pellicles that they have separated make the 
cloth. They know their trade ; they cut to right 
and left with their mandibles, 
which make an excellent pair 
of scissors, and join the two 
pieces as they lie one above 
the other with threads of 
silk. These garments always 
fit their owners, and are 
sometimes very elegant. An 
old Tinea near its transform- 
ation will never muffle itself 
up like a young caterpillar 
on its first campaign. How 
many old beaux, decking 
their mature age in a vernal 
scabbard, should be sent to the school of the 
Tinese! How many tailors, not to say dress- 
makers, would do well to be apprenticed for 
some time on my great Pear-Tree, and study 
there the true principles of their art ! 



Indeed the always tasteful toilet of the insects 




is admirably adapted to their habits, and ar- 
ranged for their individual peculiarities and 


makes a complete finish to them, and sets them 
off in a most curious way. Have our workmen 
any such artistic ideas ? The tinsel robes in 
which they muffle us, cut in one pattern, on 
pretext of fashion, have not in a general way 
the least relation to our peculiarities. 

Let us pursue the Tinea of the elm through 
her various transformations. Here she is escaping 
from her shell, no longer as a caterpillar, but 
provided with antennae, ready to take her flight 
as a perfect insect. Her wings glisten with gold 
and silver, and at their points small spots of 
velvety black set off to greater advantage the 
metallic lustre. Another variety which lives on 
the leaves of the nut-tree has its fore wings like 
a cock's tail, and banded transversely with 
alternate stripes of dead gold and burnished 
silver. Two little fine and delicate white tufts 
adorn their heads with splendid plumes. Had 
King Solomon in all his glory, when going to 
meet the Queen of Sheba, richer and more sump- 
tuous vestments than these ? 


Large animals are coarsely sketched by 
Nature, while she seems to have reserved the 
choicest gems of her rich cabinet for the smaller. 
Like those artists of the Middle Ages who delighted 
to carve numberless little figures between two 
blocks of stone and place them too high up to 
be seen, she reserves her special care for the 
minutest details of the great work. The bodies 
of most caterpillars present such a mixture of 
marvellously shaded colours, that the most skilful 
weaver could never reproduce such delicate com- 
binations. These shapeless worms crawling on 
the ground, and almost always hidden, have most 
splendid decorations. Some are marked with 
dots of divers hues, and a variety of spots ; 
others have stripes, diamonds, and bands of all 
sizes. Sometimes these markings give place to 
little tubercles projecting from the skin like so 
many precious stones. "Who has not seen sv arms 
of insects rise and sparkle in the sun, copper- 
plated, engraved, and enamelled in the most 
fantastic manner ? Could we ever be able to 

possess such a picture ? Besides, how should we 
get the silk which is our pride of adornment 
without robbing a humble larva of the soft 
envelope in which she has concealed herself? 

. Some varieties of Tinese are more ambitious 
than those that inhabit our old Pear-Tree, and are 
in the habit of making themselves more solid and 
durable cases. They live on walls, feeding on 
lichen, and gather small stones around them to 
build little cornucopia-shaped cells, large at one 
end and tapering towards the other. When ready 
to change into chrysalides, they firmly fix their 
house to the surface of the wall where they were 
born, there undergo their transformation, and issue 
at length, proudly displaying to the light of day 
two little bronzed and sparkling wings. 

But the life of caterpillars is not all rose- 
coloured, and all who have the will do not attain 
to the winged state. Some are left behind on 
the way, and might justly deplore their hard 
fate ! Not only do birds wage ceaseless war upon 
them, but they have also a formidable enemy, 




who glides into the thickest brakes, between the 
tree and its bark, among tufts of grass, wherever 
they hide, and prepares for them a shocking 
death, preceded by most bitter pangs. They 
dread his approach, perceive his coming, shudder 
at the sight of him, and yet cannot escape his 
terrible power. There he is, flitting above them 
like a vampire, grazing them with his gauze 
wings, for such he has, and searching for the 
spot where to alight on their soft defenceless 
body. The bark of our old Pear-Tree is 
covered with these deadly foes, and we can easily 
observe them there actively coursing in all di- 
rections. 

This formidable insect, the sound of whose 
wings is the death -knell of numbers of lepi- 
doptera, is shaped like a long thin fly, with small 
head and very slender antennae. It has four 
wings attached to the corselet, the two upper ones 
the longest. It has six tolerably long legs, 
especially the hinder ones. The body is lengthy, 
and only joined to the thorax by a very fine thread. 


It is known by the sufficiently crabbed name of 
Ichneumon. 

There are a vast number of species, and all 
carnivorous, but with notable differences in their 
customs. Some are black with ferruginous legs ; 
others have tawny feet and short tails ; some 
varieties are speckled ; others are found with 
black heads and yellow stomachs ; brown, tawny, 
variegated, and white ones are also met with. 
Their females seem to bear three stings of equal 
length, but really have only one, that in the 
middle, the two lateral appendages being only 
hollow blades, that when applied together form 
a sheath for the true sting. This sheath is 
black and hairy. The dart it covers is round, 
stiff pointed, hollow, and pierced near the ex- 
tremity. Its dark colour inclines to chestnut, 
and its surface is smooth. 

Now we know the actors in the drama, let 
us place them on the stage. 

And indeed as we look on the Pear-Tree we 
perceive, with its body adhering to one of the 




branches, a very common hairy caterpillar, with 
blue, brown, and white stripes on its back.* The 
head is of a greenish blue, specked with two 
small black spots. It is motionless, being gorged 
with leaves, and is, besides, on the point of 
spinning its cocoon. 




This is one of the usual victims of the yellow- 
footed Ichneumon. 

When she discovers it she descends on it, 
clings to the skin, and bores it with her auger. 
In vain does the caterpillar struggle ; however 
energetic is the resistance, it is thenceforward 
condemned, and nothing can save it from death. 
 

The wound just inflicted is filled with a number 
of eggs, and from them will issue as many 
voracious larvae, destined to live at its cost and 
feed upon its substance. At first it appears not 
to suspect its condition, and its habits seem 
unchanged. The young larvae that devour it are 
very careful not to attack the vital organs, as 
that would kill it outright and imperil their own 
existence. It was only man who, in conse- 
quence of his superior intelligence, ever thought 
of killing the goose with the golden eggs ! Our 
young Ichneumons, born at the foot of the ladder 
of existence, are too stupid to imagine such an 
idea. They act prudently, take care of their 
nurse, and only remove a fatty substance sufficient 
for their wants, of which she possesses abundance. 
Yet a time arrives when the caterpillar, though 
so long spared, must perish at last. The larvae 
having preyed upon it till nothing is left but 
skin, pierce it with their teeth, and issue forth 
to make their final change. Their victim may 
then be seen covered with little cocoons of 




yellow silk, moving tardily about, till at last 
he falls on the ground, and there his miserable 
existence terminates. 

Yet occasionally his enemies allow him time 
to turn into a chrysalis, but still the conclusion 







of the drama is always the same. Innumerable 
worms issue from the chrysalis, and covering it 
with their cocoons, a brood of flies issue from 
their lepidopterous cradle. 

As we have before said, the race of Ichneumons 
is very numerous, and we ought to be thankful 



for it, for without their presence all the fruits of 
the earth would be devoured before reaching our 
tables. Besides making war on caterpillars, they 
even sometimes lay their microscopic germs in the 
egg of a butterfly, and their tiny larvae find 
board and lodging there. They only exist by 
means of destruction, and rise alive from the 
bosom of decomposition. 



CHAPTER VII. 

NOTES OF THE TRAVELS OF A CENTIPEDE. 

A GREAT cloud, fully 'charged with electricity 
was forming on the horizon. It rose by degrees, 
mingling its grey tones with the blue of the sky, 
and at last extended all over my meadow. The 
irregular shadow covered the grass, and only 
allowed one feeble sunbeam to pass, and that 
struck upon a ridge of bark on the surface of the 
old Pear-Tree. 

Something was moving on this spot, which 
was now in the full light. There might be seeD 
a black head, round and very flat, with two bent 
antennae issuing from it. The motions of the 


creature were full of anxiety and indecision. It 
was coming up, going down again, was lost sight 
of for a moment, then reappeared, and seemed in 
great perplexity, until at last it issued completely 
from its hiding-place and crawled down the tree, 
dragging after it a kind of tawny ribbon, that 
slipped over the asperities of the bark like a 
trail of syrup. This tawny ribbon, on which, by 
closer inspection, I saw a number of articulations, 
was nothing else than the body of an animal 
borne on thirty little legs, trotting mincingly 
along, and each terminated by a hook. The 
last pair were turned upwards, terminating in 
bristles, so as to form a forked tail. 

Head, body, and tail, when they reached the 
ground, began by one consent to wriggle, forming 
a creature of no good report, the Scolopendra or 
Centipede.* It is generally found under stones, 
in dark places, at the base of walls, among the 
fibre of old stumps, wherever the air is 
tainted, dark, and heavy. The powerful loco- 



motive apparatus that is its characteristic is only 
acquired by age. Successive additions compose 
its being, and each of its rings is equivalent to a 
mark of antiquity. 

Just as the Scolopendra made its appearance 
on the meadow, a swarm of little insects, hardly 
to be seen by very good eyes, but whose curious 
structure I could easily distinguish, thanks to 
the second sight that I enjoyed, were jumping 
among the grass from stalk to stalk, with 
wonderful agility. They might have been taken 
for a band of squirrels, lost in a grassy forest, 
making it alive with their incessant activity. 
They had on their backs a sort of mane, bore two 
antennae bent forwards, and sprang from one 
place to another by means of a long elastic tail 
that they pressed upon the ground at the moment 
of making their spring. They were the Poduras 
(Skip tails), an especially cosmopolitan race, who 
plant their colonies in the fields, and even on the 
surface of stagnant water, and also on the snow 
in the coldest regions of the globe. 



They described around me numberless ca- 
pricious circuits, when one of them falling to the 
ground, was all at once enveloped in a tawny 
cloud, and disappeared under the grass. Another 
and another suffered the same fate without their 
absence being remarked by their comrades. The 
Scolopendra was in ambush, and satiating itself 
with its favourite food. 

"Decidedly," thought I, "here is a tribute 
quickly levied. If a man did as much, his 
tongue would not be long enough to boast of his 
exploits, and he would need to employ those of 
others to trumpet his fame." 

The Scolopendra thought otherwise. She left 
her post of observation, climbing carelessly towards 
a slope, stopped behind a pebble, resumed her 
march, and arrived at a round hole dug in the 
sand, not far from the lines of circumvallation 
that had been traced by the mole-cricket. She 
put her head into the hole, and quickly taking it 
out again hastened to hide under a dry leaf 

Her alarm was not without cause. A dull 



sound was heard from the bottom of the sub- 
terranean habitation that she had discovered, like 
the distant murmuring of a fountain, giving notice 
to all comers that if this retreat contained a 
treasure, there was also a dragon to guard it. 

The noise increased, and with it in proportion 
grew my curiosity. Imagination is excited by the 
approach of the unknown, under the continual 
expectation of discovering a novelty. 

In much excitement I said to myself, " What 
am I going to see ? Nature is so rich, and my 
knowledge is still so poor." 

Nevertheless I rejoiced in my agitation, as it 
promised me new discoveries. Nothing proves 
ou>f imperfection so much as this necessity 6f 
escaping from oneself, and mingling with the 
life of others. The mind, like the body, requires 
food. It is only nourished by successive assimi- 
lations, starves when solitary, and dies of inani- 
tion at the end of too strict a fast. 

Thank Heaven that was not my case. I was 
a fresh enough guest in my stall in Nature's 






theatre, and patiently awaited the rising of the 
curtain. 

I had not long to wait. A dark object 
suddenly appeared at the opening of the cave, 
storming and buzzing in a most menacing fashion, 




as if to complain of the mischief-maker that had 
dared to cross the threshold. Then I saw, not a 
dragon, but a great fly of the bee family. It 
passed without the smallest concern over the 
web of a little spider, which contented itself 
with humbly pulling a string on its passage. 



The Scolopendra was invisible, and not even 
the tips of her antennae could be seen. 

When the fly had made some circles in the 
air, she returned to her nest, brushed her wings 
with delight, threw out a few grains of sand 
that had stuck between the ruddy bristles that 
covered her body, and re-entered 'the house. She 
went some distance along a narrow tubular gallery 
with very smooth walls, and came to a sort of 
lump made of earth glued together, separate from 
the ground, pierced full of holes, and containing 
a quantity of little chambers varnished inside 
and very comfortable. In each of these chambers, 
softly lying on a honey cake, was a whitish 
worm, destined likewise to have wings and think 
of perpetuating its species at a future day. 
Sometimes another destiny, and not so happy, is 
in store for them, since enemies in great num- 
bers prowl around this well-concealed cell. Let 
one ant make the discovery and a hundred others 
follow in a row, attack the poor guardian bee, 
and kill the larvae in the cradle. Their existence 



is in imminent danger even before they issue from 
the egg. A stranger fly, taking advantage of any 
short absence of the brooding mother, slips into 
the newly vacated place, leaves there her own 
germ, and hastily escapes. The bee has seen 
nothing, and lives deceived, without a suspicion 
that she is harbouring a murderer, and that its 
savage larva will soon be sole mistress of this 
spacious abode made with so much labour. 

Some of the congeners of our bee, less rustic 
in their habits, prefer the neighbourhood of man. 
They flit around his houses, and selecting a 
wrought stone decide on hanging their habitation 
there. And how shall they accomplish this design ? 
They know not how to spin a cocoon like the 
caterpillar, or make a web of silk like the spider. 
It matters not ; they will not fail for want of 
materials, for their resolution is great. The rest 
they make will be of a kind of mortar, that as 
it hardens will become as firm as granite. They 
will go to the quarry, there select a grain of sand, 
cover it with a viscous liquid, lay it close to 





another grain, make a little lump of them, take 
this up in their mouths, knead it, put it in its 
place, and gradually build their nest. 




This nest, constructed with so much labour, is 
divided into several compartments, all of the same 
size, and each enclosing an egg, as well as the 



paste required by the grub that is to be hatched 
there. 

The erection of such a building, wisely 
adapted to the needs of the inhabitants, does 
not fail to present some difficulty. Everybody 
is not a born mason ; so some unscrupulous bees 
sometimes endeavour to seize the property of 
their neighbours. Without the slightest remorse 
they enter a half-made cell, look it over, examine 
it, give a stroke of the trowel, and prepare to 
take possession of it. Then comes the real 
owner laden with mortar, white with lime, in 
working dress. They look at one another, and 
doubtless remonstrances are exchanged ; then the 
dispute waxes warmer, the two bees hurl defiance 
at one another, rush out, and prepare to settle 
their dispute by force of arms. 

What description can do justice to the ani- 
mated scene that ensues upon these first hos- 
tilities ? Let us for a moment transport ourselves 
from the old Pear-Tree to a vast arena where the 
soil has been carefully levelled, and around which 



are raised a quantity of seats, surmounted by 
banners, shields, and pamans. Two knights in 
full armour, with visors closed, lance in rest, 
and shield on arm, mounted on powerful horses, 
barbed likewise with iron, are ready to rush on 
each other. The word is given, and they dart 
forward enveloped in a cloud of dust. 




A long shudder passes through the crowd. 
Many hearts beat, impatient to take flight, and 
go and burn themselves at this devouring flame 
that attracts and maddens the masses. Success ! 
Some souls of worth, more noble, more generous, 
reserve their sympathy for the vanquished. Such 
are scarce, very scarce, as scarce as charity, self- 
denial, and devotion. 


The two foemen have broken their lances, but 
their swords remain. Steel meets with steel ; 
the horses rear ; they seize each other round the 
body, and the issue of the combat appears for 
a moment doubtful. One of the combatants at 
last rises in his saddle, gathers up his strength, 
stretches his muscles, draws a deep breath, and 




with a sudden movement, quick and vigorous, 
throws the enemy on the ground amid the loud 
applause of the multitude. 

Is this a tournament I have described, or a 
duel between two flies \ At all events, our bees 
do just the same as the warriors of ancient time 



fly against each other head to head, swerve aside 
from each other, meet again, clash terribly to- 
gether, and fall stunned by the shock. Like the 
knights, if the first onset does not decide the 
victory they clutch each other in fury, and even 
strike with their dagger, namely, with their sting, 
like them. 

But we will not continue this humiliating 
parallel. And what would it prove that every 
one does not know already? When on the plain 
the shepherd appears larger than his sheep, the 
oak surpasses the shepherd, the tower of the 
village church exceeds the oak. In proportion 
to the elevation above the valley all these 
gradations gradually disappear, the details merge 
in the whole ; the landscape is lost in shade, 
there are no more giants, and all is small to- 
gether. 

This is the reason why the Grecian muse, in 
her choice of a dwelling-place, would not climb 
too high, but stopped upon Parnassus. 



CHAPTER VIII. 



SOLITARY BEES. 



THE sky was clear again, the skiptails jumping 
in the grass ; all was calm and peaceable in the 

meadow, and yet the 
Scolopendra did not 
appear again. Why 
did she not re-enter the 
hall of bark after such 
an exciting expedi- 
tion ? Probably she 
would have gladly 
done so, but circum- 
stances beyond her 
coutiol made it impossible for her to return. 



She had been ejected because her abode was to 
be demolished, and had been expelled by superior 
force. 

The inhabitants of a great city who are used 
to live among a crowd, and to shift their house- 
hold gods from one place to another, can never 
believe what is the pain of quitting an old 
nest ennobled by memory, and hallowed by custom. 
There is the sense of leaving behind a whole 
phase of existence on the removal. The old 
home unites the past and present, henceforth to 
be divided by an impassable barrier. Did the 
Scolopendra feel all the bitterness of this flitting ? 
I could not affirm this, but I am sure I 
experienced it for her. I love old houses, full 
of antique furniture, and showing everywhere the 
traces of the departed. One is not alon6 amid 
those grand walls that have been the cradle and 
the tomb of a whole race. A tutelary genius, 
the spirit of the family, watches in their shades, 
low murmuring in the ear of the living a thou- 
sand simple and touching words such as do them 





good. This mysterious charm does not attach to 
new mansions ; they remain dumb, and poetry 
finds no echoes there. These are but hackneyed 
hostels, good for nothing but transacting business. 

We said that the Scolopendra had removed 
that the house might be pulled down. This is 
what had happened to it, at least as I conjecture, 
for I studied it for a few minutes, and my eyes 
had only been directed thither at the moment of 
her departure. 

She had been established, as we know, under 
a fold of bark on the surface of the old Pear-Tree. 
Her retreat lay just below a great dry branch, which, 
having been broken by a storm, hung down the 
tree held by a few fibres. A smooth shining- 
bodied fly, of bluish black, with four wings of 
dark violet, namely the carpenter bee, had ob- 
served this dead branch and set to work on it. 
Our bee had excellent carpenter's tools that is to 
say, two great teeth formed of solid bits of shell 
bent into augers, convex above, and ending in a 
fine but strong point. She had then bored a 



hole towards the centre of the branch, but in an 
oblique direction. As she proceeded with her 
excavation she cast forth a quantity of sawdust, 
which gathered in a heap on the ground. A great 
expense of power, energy, and patience was re- 




quired to bring such an enterprise to a successful 
issue ; but where is the bee in whom these qua- 
lities are lacking? They know what they want, 
which is a rare quality, and only desire what 
they can perform, and that is a still rarer one. 



After several weeks of labour the wood-borer 
had pierced a cavity of nearly twelve inches in 
depth, very smooth, perfectly emptied, and very 
regular. Then, without taking any time for repose, 
she went afield to gather honey, and had filled 
with it the whole of the lower part of the cavity 
just spoken of, so as to make a mass there of 
about an inch in height. When this was done 
she laid an egg upon the paste in the fashion 
of the mason bee. 

The Scolopendra had been scared by the 
unusual noises ringing around her during these 
many goings to and fro, and had judged it best 
to leave her own hut since it was in such a 
dangerous neighbourhood. 

The, bee took no more notice, being absorbed 
in her more important cares. Of course she had 
not made a hole twelve inches long to put only 
one egg into it. She went out again, picked up 
a little wood -dust, tempering it with a sort of 
glue, brought it, and attached it to the walls 
of the hole above the provision of honey. On 



the inner rim of this first circular layer of saw- 
dust she placed a second ring concentric with 
the first, then a third of smaller diameter. Soon 
there was only a little hole left that she could 
easily fill. Then the egg was enclosed in a real 
chamber, firmly sealed up on all sides, and its 
ceiling became the floor of a new cell, also con- 
taining honey. Thus she constructed twelve 
chambers intended as habitations for as many 
grubs, all having near them the amount of sub- 
sistence necessary for their wants until the time 
of their charge. 

What would our collectors of statistics, gentle- 
men who are such hands at putting figures to- 
gether, say if they were asked to estimate within 
a few crumbs what an individual of their species 
would eat before arriving at his majority ? Ah, 
how the wood-borer would laugh at their answer ! 
Or at least we will do so as her proxies. 

Apropos to this, may I be allowed to recall 
an amusing anecdote told by M. Eeaumur in one 
of his Memoirs? 





In the first days of the month of July 1736 
an auditor of the Accountant-general's office, lord 
of a village near Andelys, on the Seine, was 




walking backwards and forwards in his drawing- 
room. When I say he was promenading, I must 
avow that it is only a supposition on my part, for 



M. Reaumur has not preserved these details. 
Perhaps he was seated in his arm-chair delicately 
wrapped in a small-patterned flowered dressing- 
gown, a very suitable dress for an auditor ; but 
this point has remained in doubt. A servant, 
prudently only opening the door a little way, an- 
nounced that a gardener from Andelys demanded 
an audience. 

He was introduced, a fine-looking man of 
five feet eleven inches, bony, muscular, fair, of 
a dazed look, with great brown eyes on a level 
with his cheeks. He took off his cap, bowed 
with a scrape of the foot, coughed, blushed, and 
remained quiet. 

" Well," said his master, " what is the news ? " 

" Alas, sir," said the gardener, " a misfortune 
has happened ! There is a wizard in the village, 
and your whole estate is ruined and undone. 
Not a workman will strike a pick into the ground 
there any more. Please to look." 

With these words he held out a little box 
to his master, who, after such an amazing prelude, 



opened it with much curiosity. In it were some 
small cases made of rose leaves rolled up. These 
perfectly closed cases seemed to have been made 
with the utmost care, and were of remarkable 
beauty. The auditor looked carefully at these 
curious objects, touched them, felt them all over, 
and was astonished at their marvellous complete- 
ness and finish. 

The gardener continued : " They were found 
in one of the borders in front of the house. They 
were not hid there for nothing, and he who buried 
them knew very well what he was about." 

" Indeed it is strange ; but you know, John, 
no one believes in wizards." 

John Paul shook his head, made a most 
intricate grin expressive of both respect and of 
doubt, turned and twisted his cap in embarrass- 
ment, and then bashfully replied : 

" As your worship pleases ; but the cunning 
man to whom I showed these things could not 
say any good of them. 1 am sure I should come 
to harm if I went on working on the place." 


The auditor rose, rang, dressed himself, and 
went to a surgeon who was a friend of his, followed 
by the villager. He did not believe that there 
was anything alarming in the story told him, 
but he wished to have the opinion of a skilful 
practitioner. Contrary to his expectations, the ex- 
pedient was unsuccessful. Though the surgeon 
was very skilful in his own business, he could 
give none of the desired information. 

What was to be done ? They went to the 
Abbe Nollet, who was well known for his accurate 
study of natural history. 

The gardener, trembling all over, presented 
the famous rolls to him, more confident than 
ever that they had a savour of brimstone. Accord- 
ing to him, there could not be a doubt. Besides 
that, he thought no common man could do such 
a piece of work ; he could not think why trouble, 
such trouble, could have been taken, or such a 
performance buried a spade deep. A wizard 
alone could have put these accursed cases in 
such a place to effect some charm. 



The Abbe Nollet only answered this fair rea- 
soning by a smile, for he had very good reasons 
for not believing it. He went to a drawer, and 


took from it other sheaths of leaves cleverly 
worked by the scarabseus beetles, and showed 
them to the rustic, telling him that they were 
made by insects, and that those which had caused 
him so much anxiety had no other origin. 

John Paul was shaken, but not convinced. 
If he had had the instinct of the Ichneumon, he 
would have displayed some of it in conversation 
with, this learned man, but he had only a little 
human sense, and what more is wanted for 
cherishing an illusion? .Nothing is so pleasing 
as an error, especially when it issues in smart 
attire from the secret recesses of the fancy. 

M. Nollet meanwhile had set to work to undo 
one of the rolls that they had brought him, an 
attempt his visitors had ' never dared to make, 
and he took from it a fat larva, that writhed 
with rage at this unexpected violation of its 
domicile. 



The gardener cried out with astonishment when 
he saw this shapeless grub. He threw up his 
arms, opened his mouth, and laughed noisily. 

"I see what it is," said he, " and the cunning 
man is nicely wrong! It was my own opinion 
that he was a poor ignorant creature. I am going 
to put these under his nose, and there will be 
a fine noise about it in the village." 

-"But," said the Abbe quietly, "I thought you 
were of the same opinion as he was." 

" I oh yes ! that is to say, no ; I thought that 
there was something more behind it, that is all." 

How often is this scene repeated from Paris 
to China? 

The pretty rolls that then caused such a dis- 
turbance are the work of the Megachile cen- 
tuncularis. This is another kind, of bee, though 
by its terrible scientific name it would seem 
rather as if it were an antediluvian monster than 
a humble hymenopterous insect. 

The cutter of rose leaves, faithful to the habits 
of her tribe, bores the ground, and makes in it 



a gallery of ten or twelve inches deep. In this 
gallery are found these magic cases so ingeniously 
folded. Each of them is composed of six or 
seven sheaths of the same size laid end to end 
and enclosed in one cover. Taking this off, they 
are found placed in order. They make a kind 
of cylinder, and are arranged like thimbles put 
partly one into the other. The circular entrance 
of the first covers the bottom of the second, 
which serves for the base of the third, and so 
on. Each of these little thimbles is a cell in- 
tended as a refuge for a grub, which undergoes 
two changes before becoming a bee. These cells 
contain honey, and are made so as to prevent the 
loss of one drop of this precious nourishment. 
Yet the leaves that compose them are not glued, 
but only placed close together. What are the 
modes of operation of the Megachile centuncu- 
laris (leaf-cutter bee) to obtain such a result ? 
We will try to rob her of the secret. 

Here she is pausing over a rose-tree all 
covered with beautiful scented flowers. This is 



her favourite tree, but not her exclusive choice, 
a& in case of need she will resort to another. 

The first thing is to take up a suitable posi- 
tion. She places herself on the outer edge of 
a leaf, so that she can hold the cut part between 
her legs and begin at the foot-stalk. Then 
setting to work she > cuts out a great round piece 
with her mandibles, working them as quickly as 
a pair of scissors. Her position is convenient 
for the purpose, but also presents some difficulties. 
The bee is perched on the bit she is cutting, and 
if care be not taken her weight will tear it off. 
To prevent any accident of this sort she begins 
to fly before the cut is finished, and for some 
time supports herself in the air without leaning 
on the material. 

When this work is done, she carries off the 
piece of leaf, holding it perpendicularly, .and carries 
it to line the subterranean gallery that she has 
hollowed out. Ten or twelve pieces of this kind 
are required to make a cell, all not being of the 
same thickness. The interior surface of each cell 


is composed of three of these pieces, of the same 
size, narrow at one end, larger at the other. The 
jagged margin of the leaves is always placed 
outside, while the smooth edge of the cut goes 
inwards. 

The Megachile centuncularis, like most insects, 
now takes pains to strengthen the exterior of 
the cell. For this purpose she surrounds it with 
three or four oval pieces, and then with other bits 
smaller in proportion. Besides, she takes good 
care not to let joint lie over joint. Like a good 
workman, she places the middle of each fragment 
of leaf upon the cut part of that just used 
before, so as to cover the joins. Also she folds 
back the end so as to give it a convex form. 
When the cell is complete she fills it with honey 
and pollen, puts an egg in it, and covers it with 
three pieces so perfectly circular that they might 
be supposed to have been drawn with compasses. 
Then she fills the whole gallery with similar 
chambers, the round end of one filling the open 
end of the next. If some unforeseen accident 




forces her to quit her work for a time, she is in 
haste to return, and hardly ever quits it before 
the whole is completed. Her perseverance to this 
end is remarkable. 

It is said that St. Francis Xavier, walking 
one day in the garden, saw a great winged insect 
walking there with head bent down, and the fore 
legs stretched out and elevated in the attitude 
of prayer. He was much astonished at this cir- 
cumstance, but much more so at hearing the 
humble creature chant ; a beautiful canticle after 
the custom of that period 'with great solemnity. 
What would he have said if he had studied the 
ways of our leaf- cutter of the rose ? It is true 
that she has no voice, but nature has given 
her a genius for mathematics a singular power 
of tracing ovals and circles, without perfect draw- 
ing instruments and a well- based knowledge 
of the laws of elasticity. Miracles are all around 
us ; in order to see them it is only necessary to 
open our eyes, but that, it appears, is the chief 
difficulty. 



CHAPTER IX. 



DIGGERS. 

MY old Pear-Tree, with its ever-blessed greeii 
shade, had a rich client with beautiful black eyes, 
that came sometimes to beg a little shade of him 
at those hours when the grass falters and bends 
under the burning rays of the sun. She walked with 
measured steps, a grave and majestic air, gathered 
a few flowers as she went, and lay down at the 
foot of the tree. Then, with head raised and body 
comfortably settled, she fixed her eyes on the 
horizon, mechanically moving her lips. Her march 
was followed by a little girl, as fresh as a rose, 
making a curious piece of knitting, never ended, 

 



but always renewed. This illustrious client lived 
at the farm, and was well known on the meadow, 
being greeted with the most discordant cries by a 
flock of jays every morning on her appearance. 
She lived there happy and thoughtless of the 




morrow, and was the delight 1 of her hosts. She was 
supposed to have been originally of the county of 
Durham, in England; but there was no actual 
proof of this. However that might be, her name 



was Betsy, and she belonged, as I have omitted to 
mention, to the bovine race. The stout farmer 
thought a great deal of her, and never spoke of 
the foreigner but in highest terms of the greatest 
praise. She replied to his compliments by a 
prolonged lowing, gave a flick of her tail to her 
sides, and returned to her peaceful meal, burying 
her nostrils deep in the grass. 

She had an enemy, though she had never done 
any harm to any one the Hypoderma bovis, who 
harassed her unceasingly with unrivalled obstinacy. 
This enemy was not to be dreaded for his strength, 
but that only made him the more dangerous. In- 
deed, more of life is spent in repelling trifling 
aggressions, annoyances constantly renewed, than in 
serious but honourable contests. Sometimes an oak 
scarred by lightning forms fresh bark, its torn 
leaves are renewed, and the branches half broken 
off by the electric fluid may recover again. But 
if attacked by grubs, its strength oozes out at a 
thousand punctures, and it is immediately dried up. 

Externally, Betsy's enemy was like a common 



fly, but very fat. Some writers have alleged him 
to be descended from the illustrious fly on the 
coach-wheel, described by La Fontaine, but we 
can hardly believe them, for her heirs had left the 
country for a town residence. The people who 
abhor Latin names, and justly so, do not know 
its title of Hypoderma bovis, and simply call it 
breeze-fly. 

The insect has great compound eyes, streaked 
with green and red, pointed antennae, strong wings, 
adorned with very conspicuous veinings. Its 
colours are dull and dark. Its carnivorous in- 
stincts would not have been suspected were 
not its secret inclinations revealed by the mouth, 
an organ of great expression in man as well as 
beast. This curiously constructed mouth ought 
to .be studied. It is composed of a kind of trunk, 
with a protecting sheath, and little white and very 
sharp teeth. 

With these sharp hooks it tormented peaceful 
Betsy. Some slight protuberances might already 
be remarked on the back of the pretty black cow, 



hardly visible among the hair, but very sensible 
to the touch. These round vesicles contained 
the larvae of the breeze-fly, foul, grub-shaped 
creatures, with two hooks at one end of their 
body, divided into a certain number of rings, and 
with no organ of locomotion. 

This greedy family, that feeds on living flesh 
and surrounds itself with corruption, is numerously 




represented. It contains the gad-fly, spoken of 
by Virgil in the " Georgics," the Gasterophyllus 
licemorrhoidalis that attaches itself to horses, with 
many other predatory flies. Humboldt and Bon- 
pland even discovered in South America a species 
of the same kind, that commits its ravages on 
man; the larva if disturbed buries itself deeply 
under the skin, and produces much inflammation, 



often fatal. It takes six months to perform all 
its metamorphoses, six long months, while the 
victim of the attack counts the hours, minutes, 
and even seconds. 

But we have wandered far from our subject, 
as we never intended, in talking of the monstrous 
client of the old Pear-Tree, to mention the Hypo- 
derma bovis, or any of its relations. A much fairer 
picture was ready to our pen, but it wanted a 
frame, and we did not know where to find one. 
The chief individual of this picture is still an 
insect, but an insect of such curious manners that 
it is hard to know how to exhibit it. The villagers, 
who readily follow Boileau's example, and call a cat 
a cat, describe it under the name of dung-beetle. 
This name implies much, and ought to show why 
the bearers of it are always found in meadows 
and high-roads. 

Entomologists place them in the tribe of Geo- 
trupes, OP Arenicolse. They may all be recognised 
by their hemispherical or oval body, by their wing- 
covers enveloping the abdomen, and especially by 



their mandibles, more than half uncovered, very 
strong, and much bent. As these insects are es- 
sentially diggers, their legs are large, sharp-edged, 
and much notched at the exterior edge. Their 
mission is to free the surface of the ground from 
anything that might seem offensive to delicate 
persons. With the exception of some of them, 
whose chosen domicile is in mushrooms, they are 
generally found in what is by choice avoided. 
They excavate sloping or upright holes under these 
matters, and bury themselves in them as soon as 
they fancy they are in danger. There is not much 
temptation to pursue them thither, but they do 
not fancy so. Perhaps they have good reason for 
getting under cover. Certain collectors, very full 
of Latin, are capable of searching everywhere. 

The dung-beetles only leave their retreat in 
the evening, and after having dressed themselves. 
Seeing them pass brilliant and lustrous, no one 
would suspect the life they lead. Their flight is 
noisy and heavy just above the ground. If they 
feel a touch, they at once counterfeit death not 



in a vulgar manner like the spiders, curling up into 
a ball and remaining quiet, but in a remarkable 
way, like true artists. Instead of bending back 
their legs and antennae to the body, like most 
insects, they, on the contrary, extend them, and 
hold them as stiff as they would be in a perfectly 
dried beetle. The imitation is so perfect that it 
deceives their enemies ; among others, the crows, 
who turn them over and over, and think them 
unworthy of a peck. The butcher bird, it seems, 
is not so easily deceived, and will not be so taken 
in. Dead or alive, he sticks all he meets upon 
the spines of the sloe, and devours them by degrees 
as his appetite requires them. 

The larvae of the dung-beetle live in the same 
place as their parents, at the bottom of a round 
hole of about fifteen inches deep, and full of food. 
They have a good deal of similarity to the grub 
of the cockchafer, and are whitish for a small 
portion of their front wings, and of a bluish or 
slaty grey on the rest of their body. 

After this preliminary description we come to 


the details of the picture, which are now more 
easy to describe. 

One day walking on the quay of Santa Lucia, 
at Naples, whence there is a view of Vesuvius, 
the blue waves of the Mediterranean, Castellamare, 
and Sorrento, I took it into my head to hire a 
boat and be transported to Capri, that picturesque 
island where Tiberius lived, whose rocky white 
profile had often excited my attention. Some 
sailors of bronzed hue, with red caps and striped 
shirts, took me there in a few hours, and put me 
on shore on a sandy beach, almost deserted. I 
mounted some steps cut out of the rock, a good 
deal broken, and invaded by vegetation in abun- 
dance, and came to the village, to the inn with 
the sign of 'the palm-tree, and left my little 
valise there. 

In great heat one has not much appetite, but 
dinner is a necessity, if only to prevent losing 
the habit. So I took a light repast under an ar- 
bour of vines, at the foot of some massive columns, 
between which were stretched out the flexible 



branches of figs. A tiger would have been tamed 
there, I am convinced, especially after moistening 
his lips with that beautiful golden wine with such 
a delicate bouquet that is made on the island. My 
collation finished, I left the inn on a voyage of 
discovery. 

The streets of Capri are narrow, considerably 
irregular, and bordered by houses with dome- 
shaped roofs, giving the place an Eastern appear- 
ance. I soon came to a tolerably large open 
space, and at the end was an arched doorway, 
leading to the country. Under this arch, at a 
small distance from the ground, was the aperture 
of a window, with iron bars. An old woman 
leant her elbows against it, conversing with a 
person of ragged beard and pale face, who could 
be seen behind the grating. 

This dark corner, where yet a man's friends 
could speak to him, was the public prison. 

When I came to this spot, I found two roads 
before me equally beautiful. The broadest on 
the right led to Anna Capri, a sort of eagle's 

 

nest on a high mountain; the other and less 
frequented road passed along the outside of the 
village, lined by hedges of prickly pear, aloes 
and vines winding among the rocks, and insen- 
sibly descending to the sea. 

I chose the latter for the sake of solitude, 
delaying at each step, now to watch a snake es- 
caping through the grass, now a butterfly rising 
in the air, now to glance at the beautiful country 
around me. Oh, how pleasant was the time I thus 
spent, and how often have I regretted it! 

At last I sat down on the root of a tree to 
dream at my ease, and give myself over to my 
feeling. Then I saw a living creature, about as 
large as a cockchafer, moving over the sand, 
an insect belonging to the tribe of dung-beetles, 
family Ateuchitse. She had found what she 
wanted, and was at work taking away some bits 
of it. Doubtless it was an unpleasant operation, 
but we will not be too sure on this point ; 
maternal love ennobles all with which it comes 
in contact. 



Our dung-beetle by her struggles contrived 
to make a little ball, and kneaded it carefully, 
mixing it with gravel. Then she dragged it to 
a small distance, turned her back to it, and 
began to roll it quickly over the ground, pushing 
it with her hind feet. The ball as it rolled 
gathered round it all the grains of sand that 
clung to its surface, and at last became of some 
size. All at once, when both its conductor and 
I least expected it, it rolled into a hole caused 
by the tread of a horse. 

The dung-beetle turned round sharply, waved 
her antennae, and rose up on her fore feet in 
the most comical way to get a better view of 
the neighbourhood around. Nothing was to be 
seen, north, south, east, or west. To her great 
astonishment, the ball had disappeared. Imme- 
diately she began to search in great haste, and 
at last discovered the object of her search in the 
situation we have mentioned. On seeing it she 
became calmer, though she was not entirely re- 
lieved from anxiety. She marched round the hole 



where her property lay, went down into it, ex- 
amined it carefully, and then making a buttress 
of herself, set to work to get it out. I saw her 
slowly ascending, with unheard-of labour, the 
almost perpendicular slope that she had to sur- 
mount, walking backwards and bearing all the 
weight of a heavy burthen. She had nearly 
done her work, when an unlucky motion all at 
once destroyed her balance and that of the ball, 
so that it fell into the pit along with her. 

This was a terrible misadventure ; so our in- 
sect remained motionless for a second, doubtless 
to take breath, as a good workman, who has 
failed in an arduous task, prepares to exert 
double strength and vigour. 

The ancient Greek poets, in their description 
of the realms of Pluto, picture to us there fierce 
Sisyphus painfully raising a rock, obliged to let 
it fall, seizing it again, and recommencing his 
dismal effort, without better success. They must 
have taken the notion from our poor insect, so 
sadly exercised, during its brief existence. See, 




she resumes her labour, but not, like Sisyphus, 
with a feeling of degradation. She has confidence 
in herself and succeeds. Her ball, vigorously 
pushed, rises and rises, at last scales the precipice, 
and rolls along the road. 

The dung-beetle takes courage, seeing it dis- 
engaged, and displays more zeal than ever. She 
resumes her backward travel, and easily traverses 
a distance of several feet. At last the ball 
escapes from her again, and is swallowed up in 
a crack in the ground. 

What a poem! No enamel orb mounted on 
a sovereign's sceptre ever gave so much trouble 
to its owner. 

But, thanks to chance, this time the famous 
ball had fallen into a good place. The insect, 
as far as I could judge by its demeanour, re- 
joiced at the result obtained. She searched 
around, went into the crack, cast wild looks 
to right and left, and seemed better and better 
satisfied at the examination. The eggs, hidden 
in the middle of the sphere that it was so 




difficult to place properly, were in a suitable 
position. They only had to be buried, and that 
was soon done. When the work was concluded, 
our beetle opened her wings, closed them, and 
extended them again ; taking flight over the 
grass, and soon disappearing in it. 

This is what I saw on a fine summer day 
on the high-road leading from the village of 
Capri to the sea. 




CHAPTER X. 

STILT WALKERS. 

A POWERFUL locomotive, driven by steam and 
heated by fire, advances with rapidity over the rails, 
but thought is still more rapid, easily outstrips 
it, and arrives first at the journey's end. With- 
out, having left our meadow, we have visited the 
rocks of Capri; we are now in the neighbour- 
hood of Bordeaux, traversing the Landes, that 
ocean of stones, sand, emaciated plants, and brush- 
wood. A shepherd walks steadily over the plain, 
with long stilts on his feet, and having in his 
hand an enormous pole terminated by a circular 
plate. 



When near us he stops, puts his pole to the 
ground, bends his knees, and sits down on the 
plate, looking like a dwarf stuck up on a gigantic 
tripod. In a country where the soil is shifting 
and insecure, it is well to take every precaution 
against accidents ; but at least, if we make use 
of an ingenious idea, we should leave the credit 
to the inventor and not appropriate it. 

Now, while the inhabitant of the Landes, 
proudly watching his sheep, is depicted by cele- 
brated painters, and boasts of the originality and 
strangeness of his style, the individual to whom 
he owes all his glory, of whose idea he has taken 
advantage, the real inventor of stilts, lives ob- 
scure and unknown in the branches of my old 
Pear-Tree. 

The fact is incontestable; indeed, here is the 
poor hero coming in his own person, not to 
recount his griefs to us, for he wants no pity, 
but to enjoy a beautiful spring day. His body 
is oval, very small, and like that of a spider. 
Head, neck, and abdomen are confused together, 




and he carries his eyes, two in number, on his 
back, where they are separated by a somewhat 
sharp crest. Like the shepherd of the Landes, 
he walks on real poles; that is to say, on legs 
of a remarkable length and fantastically slim. 
He has eight, but does not use them all at 
once. He generally raises some of them while 
he walks, holding them horizontally, as if he 
wanted to point to some distant object with his 
toe. We have just compared him to a spider : 
let us fancy that the threads of the spider's web 
were suddenly endued with life and motion, 
dragging, in their hasty march, the insect placed 
in their centre, and we shall have a notion of 
the shepherd spider, the unknown inventor of 
stilts. 

He feeds on the smallest creatures, whom he 
seizes by force of agility, or else at unawares. 
He may be seen any day, when the weather is 
not too bad, wandering 'on the old Pear-Tree, 
seeking his fortune, feeling over the mosses with 
his long legs. If he finds anything worthy of 



his desires, he lowers his body from the height 
at which it usually hangs, and clings to the 
bark of the tree to devour his prey. 

During my sleep in the meadow, he per- 
mitted me to witness a most curious spectacle. 
Eesting on a stalk of Ladies'-bed-straw at a short 
distance from me, he was taking care of bis per- 
son with the exactness of a fop. .Firmly fixed 
on his great stilts, he passed them one by one 
through his mouth, in order to make them bright 
and lustrous. 

The male shepherd-spiders engage in furious 
combats, and often leave some of their legs on 
the field of battle. Though these limbs are easily 
detached, they appear to be endowed with remarkable 
vitality, and continue in motion a long time after 
they are severed. This persistence in movement 
after amputation should not surprise us ; it is not 
peculiar to the shepherd-spider, but is also the 
case with most insects. Life, which in the organi- 
zation of man is centralized in force, is localized 
more and more in proportion as beings descend 



the scale. Thus in insects the blood is not en- 
closed in a system of special vessels ; they have 
neither veins nor arteries, and the nourishing fluid 
is distributed in the interstices that there are 
between the various organs. This uncertain and 
incomplete circulation is conducted by means of 
a simple canal situated at the centre of the body 
above the digestive tube. 

The system of nerves is not composed, as in 
man, of a cerebro-spinal axis, comprehending the 
larger and smaller brain and spinal marrow; but 
their nerves are distributed in little centres called 
ganglions, apart from each other. Thus it may 
be perceived, that if one of these centres be de- 
stroyed, the others can act for some time indepen- 
dently. There are animals also of a still more 
rudimentary structure, as, for instance, the polyps, in 
which the various faculties of relative life are not 
peculiar to any special organ ; but all their parts 
possess isolated sensation and power of motion. 

The more Nature is studied, the greater is the 
admiration of her inexhaustible fruitfulness. We 



have hardly lost sight of the shepherd-spider 
flying over the meadow on his long legs, before 
here comes another stilt walker the Daddy-long- 
legs or Tailor - crane - fly, whose aspect is more 
strange than a dream could devise. It has a 
narrow and slender body very much resembling 
that of his cousin, though much larger. His mouth 
is split from front to rear, and composed of two 
lips, not placed one above the other, but side by 
side, one on the outside, the other on the inside. 
This mouth is situated at the extremity of a short 
trunk, which terminates an already lengthy head, 
adorned also with two gills. 

The colours of our tipula are not brilliant, 
being a whitish grey, and the corselet rising into 
a most inelegant humpback. True, he has two 
superb eyes, and that is saying something for him. 
Were beauty reduced to regular and harmonious 
outlines, it would be cold and statue-like, but 
fine eyes give it radiance and light it up. The 
eye of the tipula consists of a network of a 
changeable green; a careful observer would even 



discover a little purple in it. The wings are 
transparent, somewhat narrow, and generally held 
far apart. The antennae are not remarkable except 
for four or five great hairs of whose functions we 
are quite ignorant. 




I Whence com.es this new semi-grotesque person- 
age, whom we must add to the already numerous 
gallery of the guests of the old Pear-Tree ? Where 
is she going, perched on her great legs, running 
like the ostrich, and fanning her wings to quicken 


her speed ? See, she stops at the foot of a cavern 
that time has excavated in the trunk of the tree. 
At the bottom of this dark and gaping cavern 
is a humid soil formed of rotting vegetable matter. 
The tipula goes in and takes up a most curious 
attitude ; raises her head, stands as high as possible 
on her stilts, and at last places her body in a 
perpendicular attitude. The two hind legs are now 
the only ones that touch the ground. She looks 
as if going to dance a minuet with some invisible 
being in the hollow of the Pear-Tree. 

Yet there is no one, and the poor thing would 
certainly be far from supposing the solemn cour- 
tesies of this dance manifestations of pleasure. 
The head is full of other matters than amusement, 
and, like the dung-beetle of Capri, her prime 
thought is of duty. She brings to the ground 
her long tail composed of four scaly pieces, making 
two pairs of pincers of different lengths, and digs 
it in with great vigour. Then the two pairs of 
pincers open and allow two or three eggs to 
escape, which remain in the hole bored by the 





tipula. These eggs are perfectly black, and look 
like little polished grains of gunpowder. They 







are oblong, and curved into a crescent shape. Each 
female lays hundreds ; and so proceeds sowing her 
progeny and piercing the earth at each step. 




When the eggs are laid, each soon becomes 
full of grubs of a very dirty white, cylindrical 
in form, except that the two ends are smaller 
than the middle of the body. The head is scaly, 
and not at all large. The insect does not often 
display more than a portion of it, and when 
taken in the hand retracts its front part within 
the 'first ring. The tortoise evidently has play- 
mates even among the smallest species. 

The larvae of the crane fly cause great ravages 
in grass land by moving the earth round the 
roots of the plants, Which are thereby disturbed, 
lifted up, and exposed to be dried by the sun. 
Indeed they sometimes cut the .fibres in making 
their galleries. The manner in which they receive 
their supply of oxygen is worthy of notice. They 
have a complete respiratory apparatus at the end 
of their body, composed of a bunch of radiating 
filaments and performing the office of true lungs. 

It is not necessary to say that these rudimen- 
tary creatures do not immediately exchange the 
obscure life that they pass in their caves for that 



of a free winged fly flitting over the grass and 
newly -blown flowers. In order to arrive at that 
condition, our grubs, like caterpillars, dispense with 
their skin, and live for some time under the form 
of nymphse rigidly swaddled up. They are then 
of a grey colour. Their future wings and antennae 
are hidden under the abdomen, as well as the 
legs, all in order and close together. These legs, 
destined to be so greatly developed in future, are 
folded and doubled so as to take up the least 
room possible. 

This is an example of the different means 
employed by nature to accomplish the same end. 
The nympha of the crane fly at the time of its 
transformation must by degrees raise itself to the 
surface of the ground and disengage its front 
part. How is this to be accomplished, as the 
legs are not only bent down, but enclosed in a 
solid covering ? 

The difficulty is resolved in the most remark- 
able manner. The insect's body, though smooth 
in the grub, in the nympha bristles with bumps 


and spines. There are some on all the rings, but 
more on those near the tail. These spines slope 
downwards ; some are single, some forked. And 
it is by their means that the creature, feeling 
ready for its entrance into another world, drags 
itself with great effort towards the light. 




Crane flies, like all insects which multiply with 
rapidity, and whose females lay great numbers 
of eggs, are greedily pursued and destroyed in 
great quantities by birds, our most valuable assist- 



ants, without whom we should have much trouble 
in evading the ravages of insects. Some inter- 
esting facts will prove this. 

A naturalist one day took a butterfly that 
comes from a hairy caterpillar, and obtained from 
it a brood of three hundred and fifty eggs, which 
all hatched. He kept eighty eggs and brought 
up the caterpillars. All performed their changes 
and became perfect insects, except five which died 
in the act of changing their skin. Among all 
these butterflies there were fifteen females coming 
from the eighty eggs ; the brood of three hundred 
and fifty wou]d then in proportion have furnished 
sixty-five females. Supposing that they had been 
as fruitful as their mother, we come in the third 
generation to a sum of twenty-two thousand seven 
hundred and fifty caterpillars, among whom there 
would have been at least four thousand two hun- 
dred and sixty-five females, and they would have 
produced in their turn one million four hundred 
and ninety-two thousand seven hundred and fifty 
grubs. These numbers are sufficiently oppressive ; 




but certainly viviparous flies will show us much 
larger ones. They produce as many as twenty-two 
thousand at a single birth. For these, supposing 
the number of females equal to that of males, we 
shall have at the third step not a miserable million 
of individuals, but a splendid posterity of two 
thousand decillions of beings, all living, flying, and 
eating at the universal board. 

At the end of a generation they would have 
eaten us down to the bare boards, and there would 
be no place left for us at the feast. 



CHAPTER XL 

FKOM THE MEADOW TO THE WILDERNESS. 

THE slope that rises a tew steps from the great 
Pear-Tree, half in sun, half in shade, is as popu- 
lous as a hive of bees. A builder is at work 
there at this moment, and is building a novel sort 
of mansion there. If he was of our race, there 
would be little about him in which to interest 
ourselves. "We should most likely see him imi- 
tating some Greek temple, endeavouring to renew 
Roman art, inspired with Gothic taste, or sensibly 
copying some edifice of the Renaissance. By com- 
mon consent, architecture is a dead language at 
present, only to be studied in ancient authors. By 



the employment of iron, so wonderfully worked at 
the present day in turn with zinc and glass, some 
rash adventurers have endeavoured to raise edifices 
full of elegance and lightness, but in a style 
unknown to Vitruvius ; but it seems as if their 
deeds had been scandalous, and that such efforts 
ought not to be encouraged. 

The builder that we are going to discuss is a 
simple insect, with only his instinct to guide him, 
and yet indulging at times in original efforts. It 
is a grey larva, with a body of oval shape, covered 
with little tubercles. It can only walk back- 
wards, and bears in front of his head a pair of 
jagged pincers, sharp, and hollow within. These 
pincers supply the place of mouth, proboscis, and 
offensive weapons. There are several tools, but he 
wants them all ; for he is at once workman, 
mechanic, and soldier. He has just set to work, 
and we can study his smallest movements at 
leisure. 

Like a prudent insect, he begins by examining 
the surface of the ground, in order to make choice 





of a suitable position. After some hesitation he 
fixes on a somewhat sandy flat, a few inches across, 
about half-way up the slope. He levels it a little, 
clears out the rubbish, then digging his tail into 
the ground, he traces a perfect circle by using the 
point of one of his pincers as a compass, and the 
end of his tail for a centre-point. He then begins 
to dig in this space, heaps a quantity of sand on 




his head, and, by giving a good shake, casts the 
burthen outside the circle. He then continues to 
work for some minutes, turning round and round 
and walking backwards. When returned to the 
point of departure, he changes sides. Mountains 
are moved by courage and perseverance, and d 
fortiori why may not holes be dug ? So our builder 
by dint of labour constructs a large funnel with 



its point, about two inches deep. Then he takes 
up his position at the bottom of this cavity, buries 
himself there, only showing his pair of pincers 
extended and open at the bottom of the pit, and 
perfectly motionless. 

What is his expectation as he lies concealed in 
darkness and mystery ? His name will sufficiently 
declare his object. He is called the. Ant Lion. 

Yes, indeed, with justice. The very ants that 
climb so impudently over my body as I lie in 
the grass, have a most formidable enemy, who 
scrunches them up all standing, in despite of the 
desperate resistance they make. After all, what 
is there to wonder at in his manners and customs ? 
Considering that the whale, that giant denizen of 
the sea, is vanquished by the attacks of man, of 
sharks, of saw-fish, of sword-fish, of seals, and of 
white bears, it may be inferred that the ant 
cannot escape being exposed to some mischance. 
There can be no conqueror without a combat, and 
the issue of encounters is not always fortunate. 
According to Homer, Achilles himself had a vul- 



nerable heel, and yet none buTT, i.e. 
the next thing to a demigod, can help failing, not 
only in one but in both feet. 

If by chance an ant running by should fall 
into the hole that her enemy has dug, she is im- 
mediately seized in his pincers and pitilessly de- 
voured. If as she roils down she tries to cling to 
the sides of the funnel, the adversary rains sand 
upon her to hasten her fall. The ant lion is not 
the only employer of this generally successful 
stratagem ; some fishes do the same. The lot of 
the archer, an inhabitant of the Ganges, is to 
feed on insects : yet he cannot issue from the 
water to catch them in the fields of air. This 
industrious insect counsels him to hide against 
the bank till an incautious fly comes to perch 
among the aquatic weeds. The instant the victim 
is observed, a spout of water is cast at him, and 
carries him down into the river. The archer seems 
seldom to miss his aim, even at a distance of 
several feet. 



To return to the ant lion, by the way, we 
may observe he has no objection to a change of 
diet. Every insect of medium size that is attracted 
to his pit by curiosity gets into trouble. Even 
one of his own kind, if he got his foot in them 
by chance, would not be spared. Patient waiting 
for hours for a good meal makes any one savage. 

When the time for transformation is come, our 
larva, now arrived at his full growth, goes back- 
wards and forwards, tracing irregular furrows in 
the ground, and spins himself a round cocoon, 
covered with sand outside, and inside hung with 
fine white silk. Within this cocoon it changes 
into a nymph, and may there be seen curled into 
a circle, motionless, and calmly awaiting the mo- 
ment of deliverance. 

The perfect insect is very long, and a good 
deal like the dragon-fly. It has four great wings, 
with very numerous and delicate nervures. It lays 
its reddish-white eggs in a sandy and very dry 
soil, in some spot protected from the rain, or at 
the foot of an old wall with a southern exposure. 





However remarkable is the voracity of the 
ant lion, it is not equal to that of many other 
insects. All are equally ravenous on issuing from 
the egg. They fling themselves on their prey, 
gorge on it to satiety, go to sleep, and only wake 




to eat again. A naturalist has remarked that 
the larva of a fly, the Musca carnaria, or blow- 
fly, in twenty-four hours becomes two hundred 
times as heavy as at first. The raisers of silk- 
worms have made similar inquiries, and proved 



that the caterpillars hatched from one ounce of 
eggs eat sixteen hundred and nine mulberry leaves 
before reaching the perfect state. This enormous 
consumption of eatables is necessary to the larvae, 
as they must lay in a store of sustenance to be 
able to bear the long fast they undergo in the 
state of chrysalis, or nympha. Their stomacli 
changes with their nature. The greedy silkworm 
that consumed a mass of green leaves sixty 
thousand times its own weight, when become a 
moth only takes a little honey by way of nourish- 
ment. The digestive organs of the first had very 
great power ; those of the second are reduced to 
the thickness of a thread. 

It is not always so. But two paces from the 
ant lion's pit, among my Pear-Tree's roots, there 
has lain for some time a mass of eggs, united 
by a fine membrane, from which there issued 
a swarm of little larvae. These of course had 
neither wings nor wing-covers, but even from this 
early period their possession at a future day might 
be predicted, judging by four protuberances, like 


buttons, that project from their segments. The 
creatures dispersed at the foot of the slope, ate 
the grass, made their transformations, and we now 
see them skipping joyously around us in shape of 
grasshoppers. 

The ravages inflicted by caterpillars are trifling 
compared to the terrible devastations caused by 
the larvae of the locust, one of the varieties of 
that numerous family whose destroying march has 
been described most forcibly by Oriental poets.* 

A column of fire goeth before them, and a 
burning flame folio we th them. Before them ex- 
tends a rich country like the Garden of Eden, 
behind can only be seen a desert of bare mon- 
strous outlines, an ocean of stones and sand. Yes, 
nothing can escape them. The clash of their 
wings resound afar like that of the war chariot 
drawn by horses, at the moment when it dashes 
into the combat, ploughing its bloody track through 
the thickest. They pass over the tops of the hills 
like flame flying and crackling over lands covered 



with stubble, or like armed legions going to the 
war. Before them men shudder and feel their 
countenance turn pale. They march in innumer- 
able quantities, always going forward, keeping 
their rank, and confident in their strength. 

A learned traveller, Dr. Shaw, was present at 
one of these invasions in Algeria, and has given 
a most curious picture of it. The grasshoppers 
appeared at the end of March, and their numbers 
increased to such a pitch that in the following 
month their swarms when taking flight interrupted 
the light of the sun. At the beginning of May 
they retired into the Mitidjah and other neigh- 
bouring plains to lay their eggs. No sooner were 
they hatched than the young larvae banded together 
and marched in a compact army in the direction 
of the sea, leaving all perfectly bare wherever 
their legions appeared. They were indefatigable ; 
climbed trees, scaled walls, entered houses, and 
appeared to spring from the ground. Meanwhile 
the inhabitants had taken measures of defence ; 
they dug immense trenches around the gardens 


and fields, and filled them with water to several 
feet in depth. Piles of fuel had been prepared to 
be fired on the arrival of the destroying column. 

It came, made a bridge of the dead by which 
it passed the ditches, put out the fires by delivering 
over to them heaps of victims to be consumed, 
and continued its triumphant course. Other bands 
followed this first army, then still more, spreading 
around them misery, famine, and death. 

Ha'ving continued for a month this aggressive 
and persecuted existence, the larvae had reached 
their full growth and become perfect. In order 
to perform this change they attached themselves 
by their legs to a branch, or, failing that, to .any 
projecting object, and shook themselves so <0ften 
and so well as to disentangle themselves of their 
old useless skin. This laborious task lasted from 
seven to eight minutes, and was followed by an 
almost complete prostration. Nevertheless, they 
might be seen to revive as soon as the action of 
the sun and air had dried their wings, to shake 
their antennae, and spring forth more voracious 

 

than ever with fresh powers and greater activity. 
It is difficult to form an idea of the swarms of 
locusts that invaded Africa in the year 1797. 
An English naturalist, Mr. Barrow, who could 
judge with his own eyes, reports that these 
insects covered an area of country two thou- 
sand square miles in extent. The current of a 
large river in which grew some reeds was entirely 
stopped by the heaps of their bodies. Having 
mown down everything in the neighbourhood, 
the surviving green rushes on the bank had excited 
their desires, and they perished by myriads in 
trying to obtain them. 

When the locusts begin on a field of corn, they 
attack the ears first, and pluck out grain after 
grain ; then they devour the stalk, afterwards the 
leaves, and only stop when they come down to the 
surface of the ground. Once on the march, these 
larvae never stop, and their direction is determined 
by that of the wind. At sunset the immense 
army halts and divides into small detachments 
that take possession of plants, of tufts of grass, ant- 




hills, and stores, and pass the night there. Then it is 
that attempts are made to destroy them by driving 
great flocks of sheep over the spots where they 
are encamped, and incredible quantities are crushed. 

If the wind brings them, the storm also carries 
them away. Certain coast districts of Africa, 
where they multiplied with frightful rapidity, were 
delivered in this manner. A current of air from 
the north-west raised them in compact masses and 
swept them into the sea. Their bodies covered the 
coast, and composed a bank three or four feet high 
and extending nearly fifty miles. Terrible in their 
lives, they were yet more so after death, and for a 
rtime it was feared that the plague would succeed 
'to famine. 

loa our temperate climates the grasshoppers are 
not animated by such a rabid thirst for destruction. 
It required the burning emanations of a tropical 
sun and the acid fire of the desert to fling them 
thus on nature. Yet at times the locusts do unite 
in bands in Italy. They commence their travels at 
early dawn after the dew is dried up. Some of 



them spring up in the ranks, awake their sleeping 
comrades, and seem to act as messengers. Soon 
they all set out on their march, all in the same 
direction and without great deviations. Though 
very near together they never come in contact, 
and travel nearly as fast as a fly running on the 
ground without making use of its wings. If pur- 
sued or attacked on the march, they disperse, to 
assemble anew a little further off. They travel thus 
till evening without stopping, advancing about nine 
feet in the day. Though they in general prefer to 
follow the great roads and beaten paths, when they 
meet with brushwood, hedges, or ditches, they do 
not turn from their way, but seek to surmount 
these obstacles. Marshes, rivers, or canals turn 
them aside to take another direction, unless they 
manage to cross them on a bridge of reeds, or by 
making use of the bushy branches that overhang 
the water. Towards sunset they encamp, like their 
African relatives. They do not move during rain, 
or while the sky is cloudy. When their wings are 
developed they separate a little from each other, 



still, however, keeping together and advancing in 
numerous swarms. 

Locusts invaded England in the year 1748, 
but without breeding there. They were seen also 
in Poland and Lithuania, where they appeared 
in sufficient numbers to darken the air. Trees 
with long and flexible branches bent under their 
weight. Our locusts, with their erratic and dis- 
orderly habits, were sure to obtain the attention 
of the magistrates ; so we find several provisions 
that concern them. The jurisconsults questioned : 
What if a farmer by contract having renounced 
making any kind of accident a plea for avoiding 
the payment of his rent, should see his harvest 
devoured by grasshoppers ? Should he bear the 
loss, or the landed proprietor be charged with it ? 
This question wa,s the subject of a Latin thesis of 
Joachim Hoppius : De edaci locustorum pernicie, 
a L. Excepto lempore E. Local, et conduct. It 
may be discovered in some old libraries, where we 
will let it repose in peace until such time as our 
own fields be mown down by locusts. 



CHAPTER XII. 

A VINDICATION. 

IF there is a maligned, calumniated, slandered 
insect, it is the one who has planted her home 
before us, under a stone at the foot of the great 
Pear-Tree, at a very short distance from a superb 
tuft of camomile. 

It is true that her appearance does not give 
a favourable impression. Her head is brown, 
corselet flat and black, with paler edges. The 
wing-cases are very short, and make her look 
like a man who has lost his arms. She is awk- 
ward, inelegant, and seems only to have stumps 

for wing-cases. The body is terminated by a 
long pair of pincers, of hard substance, curved 
into an arch, with the points touching. She is 
known by the significant name of Forficula, or 
Earwig. If she comes into our sight when going 
about her business, she usually forfeits her life 
for her imprudence. The learned have taken much 
pains in pleading her cause, and endeavouring to 
convince people that it would be very injurious 
to the Forficula to live inside a skull, all the more 
so that there are plenty of hot brains in the 
world. The anatomists have made common cause 
with naturalists, and borne witness to the im- 
possibility of such an entrance being effected 
into our bony case, perfectly closed at the point 
of the ear ; but they are not listened to. Ento- 
mologists, thinking that they could put an end to 
the question, added that the insect's pincers were 
not strong enough to produce the slightest im- 
pression. Their simplicity is derided. 

A single word only is required to create a preju- 
dice ; millions may be spoken without confuting it. 


At least thus much justice may be granted to 
the earwig, as to allow that it is full of devotion 
to its larvae, not abandoning them till they are 
of an age to make their own way in the world. 
If we raise the stone under which she has taken 
shelter, we shall find her there surrounded by her 
family. She only robs us from time to time 
of some fruit, makes a hole in a ripe pear, and 
buries herself in it like an open-mouthed glutton. 
Open fields are preferred by her, wet sand, the 
margins of ponds, and shady gardens. Her life 
is peaceful, calm, and rural ; but this does not 
prevent her being considered as odious. 

Near her lives one of her relations, having 
like her an elongated body, filiform antennae, wings 
hidden under disproportionately small coverts, and 
likewise a great bull-dog head, with jaws pro- 
jecting to right and left in a most menacing 
fashion. It is the great black Staphyllinus,* of 
agile limbs, and of sharp, teasing temper. He 
searches for decaying animal matter, and throws 



himself on living insects, and his voracity even 
induces him to commit Staphyllinophagy ; that is 
to say, to eat his own fellows. 

Yet this individual, though his habits are sus- 
picious, does not excite any repugnance. It is 
true that he raises his head at the least attack, 
brandishing his tail as if he had a terrible sting 




in it ; while the poor earwig, if it falls into an 
ant-hill, or under the foot of man, tries to escape 
at its utmost speed, without having an idea of 
making use of those famous pincers that have made 
her so many enemies. 

Another unfortunate, more abject and miserable 
still, composed of rings soldered one to the other, 



with naked body, shiny, tapering to a point in 
front, and a dweller underground, is moving a 
short distance off. The approach of a mole makes 
it hastily quit its obscure hole ; and here it is 
crawling through the grass, turning and twisting 
as if suffering from a spasm, as it feels the warm 
rays of the sun upon its cold skin. It is the 
Lumbricus, or Earth-worm. 

It hates the glare of day, the blue sky, and 
balmy breeze. What it likes is the great grey 
cloud heavily driving over the horizon, shedding 
torrents of rain on its course, washing the leaves 
and moistening the branches, distributing all around 
great puddles of muddy water. Then it protrudes 
half its body from its den, raises itself painfully 
to some flower bent down by the storm, drags it 
to the orifice of a deep hole soiled with mire and 
discoloured, and then slowly devours it. 

Only just sufficient for this are its organs 
The first segment of the body is a little prolonged, 
and answers for an upper lip. The next ring has 
a border, above which is a narrow opening. Such 


is the mouth. The nervous system is very little 
developed, and consists of a chain of very small 
ganglions, distributed from one end of the body 
to the other. It presents hardly any individuality, 
and each one unites the two sexes. The eggs are 
vesicles, with horny shell, oval or elongated. 

We only meet it with a gesture of repugnance, 
and yet this wretched earth-worm is beautiful, if 
only beauty consists in the perfect harmony of 
different organs, and the complete adaptation to 
the medium in which they are to be employed. But 
how can we get this definition admitted, especially 
among painters ? Let us study the pictures of the 
greatest masters, and what shall we find there but 
that each one's ideal is the face of their own kind, 
chastened by thought, embellished by fancy, re- 
fined by meditation ? The earth-worm must be 
resigned to be considered ugly till it too gets 
knowledge .how to wield the pencil and the brush. 

It has both already, and no need of instru- 
ments. I see from here, thanks to my double 
eight, eight stiff, short-hooked bristles under each 



of its rings. Their direction is from front to rear, 
and at the top of each is a pore. They are em- 
ployed as feet for want of better, when it is com- 
pelled to quit its underground gallery and seek 
adventures on the high road. 

If new proofs were wanted of the injustice of 
certain generally-received opinions, we should find 
them, and in plenty, without leaving the old Pear- 
Tree. There is one of its population that children 
look for under the name of Lady-bird, or Lady- 
cow, known scientifically by the appellation of 
Coccinella, a round, smooth, brilliant, lustrous 
bead, adorned with a black head, set off with two 
little white spots. Besides, she is marked with 
seven dark marks disposed triangularly, and fault- 
lessly regular. Nothing can be prettier, and one 
would hesitate to do the least harm to this charm- 
ing little thing, so exceedingly well enamelled. It 
ought to live, it would seem, only on the pollen 
of flowers, mingled with a little dew. 

We must not trust it. Do you see that great 
grub, long and grey, bedaubed with black and 






white, crawling among the plant lice and tearing 
them up with its horny jaws ? The vital juice 
flows around it in drops, and it kills whatever it 
touches. The author of all these murders, so coolly 




perpetrated all along her track, is the innocent 
Lady-bird in the first phase of her existence. 

When gorged upon the swarming population 
around her till no more can be swallowed, she 




clings to a leaf with the end of her tail, an er 
skin stretches like the cloth of a bag that is too 
full. Gradually the circulation in it becomes less 
active, and this outer skin stiffens, and forms a 
species of cocoon, whence this living bead at last 
issues, of whom people say that she must be re- 
spected as never having done harm to any one. 

Poor earwig ! unfortunate worm ! why have 
they not the impertinence of the Coach-horse, or 
the credit of the Lady-bird ? Certainly it is not 
from man that they have learnt the lesson of 
humility and modesty. From the time he put in an 
appearance here below, he made the earth that he 
inhabits the centre of the universe, and himself 
the point of attraction to everything in this world. 
Believe him, and stones, plants, animals, every- 
thing, have only been created with a view to his 
employment of them. This theory still numbers 
many votaries, and would be pleasing to me also 
did not some facts stand in singular opposition 
to it. These are sometimes embarrassing ; so we 
will pass our opinion on them. 

 

It is not to be denied that great numbers of 
insects pillage and ravage our fields, attack us 
at home at our very hearths, and cause us an 
immensity of damage. They perforate our fur- 
niture, wander in our libraries, make nests in 
wardrobes, go from one room to another, and 
leave everywhere visible traces of their stay. 
They devour our corn, gnaw our fruit, destroy 
the plants of the kitchen garden, disturb our 
rest, prick us, wound us, bite us, and persecute 
us in a thousand ways. 

Indeed it must be confessed that these are 
strange sort of auxiliaries, and their ways would 
excite reflection did not the ingenuity of man 
find an answer for all. 

It says : " They have received life in order 
to punish us for our crimes, and are employed 
by Heaven to scourge our vices." 

This explanation is good, but I prefer another 
that I owe to a flight of birds that alighted on 
my old tree with ever-moving wings and un- 
closed beak. This troop, which had assembled 


to pursue some late flying owl, comprised titmice, 
chaffinches, hedge sparrows, and even linnets. 

All these birds twittered, whistled, and sang, 
in different tongues. Each one had his favourite 
notes, his peculiar scale, and his own warble. 
Some strung together two or three sharp and 
shrill notes without pretension ; others rose on 
their little legs and made a display of rolling 
trills. 

And -strange it was that the difference of all 
these tones raised at once over the mead was not 
at all disagreeable. They .melted one into the 
other, and constituted an indefinable harmony, 
rather \vague, but full of charm. 

And 'hearing them, I said : " There are in 
this world beings of all kinds, unequal in power 
and intelligence, according as more or less 
deeply penetrated by divine breath. They have a 
common bond in their origin, and obey the same 
general laws. They are frequently in accordance, 
they are constantly in connexion, but all have 
their individual destiny, their own development, 



and peculiar transformations. One has not been 
created for another, and none of them, not even 
man, is a centre of light and heat. The sun 
that lights and warms them, the real source of 
life, blazes far from them all above their heads 
in the immeasurable height of the skies. Our 
philosophers and sages, stammering in the lan- 
guage of truth, have modelled creation at the will 
of their conceit ; but fruitful mother Nature re- 
veals to them another principle, based on love, 
the undefined striving of beings for perfection, 
the constant aspiration of all that exists towards 
a better state. In varied forms, sthas aspiration 
increases ,as it ascends in the scale, till at last 
it loses itself where our gaze cannot follow it, 
in that Infinite Supreme Eternal Unity, before 
whom the intellect of man is nothing but un- 
certainty and confusion." 

So let us forgive the earth-worm's disagreeable 
appearance and the lady-bird's sanguinary customs. 

Besides, the latter is really charming, and 
seems like a waif from a jeweller's workshop. 


Some of them are red, with two great white 
marks on the sides : these are found on the alder ; 
some scarlet, with five black round spots ; others 
again in scarlet clothing, but with a yellow corselet 
and marked with thirteen black dots : these last 
live on the wych-elm. One of the largest, the 
Coccinella Argus, is all red below as well as above, 
head and breast of one same colour. On each 
wing-cover may be seen five dark spots, both sides 
exactly alike, and there is an eleventh at the 
junction of the wings. These spots are round 
and black, with a yellow rim, different from the 
colour of the wing-cases, and look like so many 
ever open eyes disposed over the creature's whole 
body. 

It may be supposed that this brilliant per- 
sonage is somewhat scarce, and does not often 
favour us with her presence. She lives on bushes 
in the open country where the air is good and 
plant-lice fat and numerous. 

A. striped and very pretty Coccinella is found 
on flowers, but yet less curious than another 


variety of the same family also an inhabitant 
of flowers. This has a real chessboard on its 
back. We should never finish if we tried to 
describe all that there are in collections. 

There are lady-birds gilded and silvered, and 
purple, striped with these different hues. Indeed, 
some of them are shaggy and crossed by two 
great red bands. I have seen some that crawled 
on branches like little tortoises on earth, with 
a sharp projecting margin all round their wing- 
covers. Nature is prodigal, inexhaustible, and 
never counts the jewels in her casket. 




CHAPTER XIII. 

THE OBSEQUIES OF A FIELD MOUSE. 

EVERY one knows the town rat, that impudent 
guest always ready to hold festival at another's 
table, and who even has the hardihood to invite 
some of his long-moustached friends who, like 
himself, may be moving about in search of food 
at night, with the stomach more active than the 
conscience. The country rat is also possessed of 
a certain notoriety, thanks to La Fontaine. Some- 
times he is found in farms sleeping on bundles 
of straw like a real vagabond, constantly hunted 
by the cats, those volunteer members of the rural 





police. Both of them, the town rat and the 
country rat, are of very marked style, to which 
Callot has done justice. 




They are mendicants, and well contented so 
to be. Such is not their cousin the field mouse, 





whose curious history came to my knowledge in 
my meadow. 

The cousin in question is of small stature, 




and does not measure much more than three 
inches from the tip of his nose to the root of 
his tail. His head is large, nibbler that he is, 



and his muzzle blunt. His cutting teeth are 
very yellow, and as for his molars, they have a 
fla,t crown furrowed transversely on it very much 
like those of the elephant. His ear is small, a 
mark of good birth, and is well clothed in fur. 
The eyes project and are very sharp, and the 
tail is in part without fur. The upper part of 
the body is a mingled tint of brown and black, 
the stomach of a very dark ash-coloured grey. 

Our field mouse, far from passing a miserable 
existence like his congeners, always finds means 
of living in opulence. In the month of August, 
when the ears of corn ripen and cover the plain 
afar with golden masses, he scampers before the 
labourer, cuts the wheat-stalks, gnaws the fattest 
grains, and so takes his tithe of the harvest. 
Later he mixes with the gleaners, and knows 
better than they how to swell his sheaf. When 
the land is bared, and there are nothing but lean 
pipes of stubble to be found, he moves a few steps 
away to newly-sown fields. What a treasure 
is a rich furrow fall of grain left free to his 



appetite ! If this resource fails, lie goes into en- 
closed meads to destroy the roots of grass and 
plants, or pays a visit to gardens and orchards. 
In winter, when driven by the snow from open 
fields, he frequents the woods full of acorns and 
beech-nuts. In time of absolute fast his measures 
are soon taken, for he falls upon the weakest of his 
neighbours, were it even on another field mouse, 
tearing him to pieces and eating him up. 

This is what is called bending to circum- 
stances and knowing what one is about ! Who 
would not wish to be a field mouse, even though 
naturally a bit of a rat already. 

To great activity in destruction and much 
agility, the cunning creature adds the disastrous 
quality of multiplying prodigiously. He and his 
family sometimes establish considerable colonies, 
extending in a short time over several square 
leagues. The female brings forth twice a year 
in our climate, in spring and summer, ten or 
twelve little ones. Farther north, where the pine 
takes the place of oak and beech, its fecundity 



is not so great, and only displayed once a year, 
during the last days of April. 

The field mouse makes for himself under- 
ground retreats, whither he flies at the smallest 
sign of danger, like the classical brigands of Spain 
or Italy. These retreats serve him at once as 
abode and storehouse. They are not very spacious, 
it is true, nor burrowed very deeply into the 
earth, but yet they provide a secure retreat, and 
are generally divided into two or three chambers. 
The galleries occupied by different families are 
not contiguous ; between tten a greater or less 
space always remains. If the occupants of these 
underground chambers leave them or die, no 
others take up their abode there. New comers 
prefer to work for themselves further off for 
their own use, and despise the labours of another. 
None of them generally dig deeper than six 
inches or a foot, but often the females, before 
producing their young, prolong the excavation to 
even two feet deep, by a gallery, hardly an inch 
in size, that after several windings opens on a 



kind of chamber provided with a soft lining of 
dry grass ; and on this downy couch the brood 
are born. 

The stout farmer, joint owner of my meadow, 
had declared war to the death against all this 
race, harshly calling them vermin. He had been 
told that leaves of alder spread on the field and 
ploughed in would drive away the field mice, 
and had tried it : a useless labour, for next year 
his enemies were more numerous than ever. 
Exasperated by want of success, he sowed in 
his orchard and on his land a quantity of oats 
steeped in a solution of arsenic. ' This method 
answered indeed only too well, for many fowls, 
and the best of layers, were killed as well as our 
indefatigable devourers. This was no true suc- 
cess for our friend : though victorious, he paid the 
expenses of the war. So he changed his tactics, 
took spurge-laurel (Daphne tliymelcea), which is 
poisonous only to certain animals, pounded it in 
a mortar to extract the juice, soaked grains of 
corn in it, and distributed them under bits of 




tile which he placed about in the fields. This 
time his triumph was complete : a swarm of field 
mice perished in mortal convulsions, and one of 
them who had been used to come regularly for 
three years to eat the peas in my meadow, was 
there panting before my eyes, ready to yield up his 
last breath. I was a witness to his final struggle, 
and saw him gradually grow fixed into that 
icy, immovable rigidity which is the companion 
of death. 

There he was, by the side of the Pear-Tree 
where he had before passed such pleasant hours, 
upside down on the saoad, with his feet in the air, 
muzzle .contracted, and glassy eye. I expected to 
see a legion of ants .arrive those fellows who are 
so clever at cutting up a body and laying the 
skeleton bare without dislocating a joint, when 
a strange sound rang around me, grave and pro- 
longed like the great bell of Notre Dame. An 
insect had just passed about an inch from my 
ear and pitched down on the field mouse. 

It was a little smaller than a dung-beetle, but 



longer and much more active. As for his attire, 
it was in complete conformity with his business : 
head, body, and corselet black, with some yellow 
hairs on them ; wing-cases or upper wings 
divided by two yellow cross bands with broken 
outlines ; curious antennae, with a reddish mass at 
the end formed of four small plates ranged on 
one another by the middle, and the last was 
thicker, and in the shape of a little irregular 
pointed button. In a word, he wore the true 
garb of a fashionable undertaker, grave, dark, 
and handsome. 

The field mouse had no -cause for complaints of 
anybody but his enemy the stout farmer. Nature 
sent him, as soon as his decease was duly regis- 
tered, a gravedigger with good large legs, skilful 
in excavating ground, and carrying all his topis 
with him to finish the job as soon as possible. 
The Necropliorus vespillo for so is this curious 
individual named does not work, however, with- 
out pay. He has some eggs to lay before he 
himself passes from life to death, and proposes to 


bury them with the body. Flesh-feeding larvae 
will spring from them, and they will perform 
after several metamorphoses the duties first per- 
formed for them. Behold our burying beetle 
taking a tour round the field mouse, inspecting the 
field of operations, and finding the earth friable, 
light, and but little hardened. Could there be any- 
thing easier for an experienced gravedigger than 
to make a hole in it ? But how transport the 
body to it when, made ? It was clear enough 
that the power of the burying beetle was not 
sufficient. "Without being a Goliath, or even a 
David, a field mouse weighs something, and our 
undertaker has not much more than good-will. 
No, I am wrong ; he is endued with a marvellous 
instinct. 

Having finished his inspection, he stops a 
moment to take time to reflect. During this 
interval we observe a special peculiarity the 
massive, square, powerful form of his corselet. 
Doubtless there is good reason for it, for this is 
what enables the insect to push its head under 



the mouse, slightly raising it, and to slip between 
the body and the surface of the ground so as 
nearly to disappear from our eyes. He stops there 
for a long time, and we begin to lose patience. 
What can he be doing in this inconvenient posi- 
tion, crushed under a weight disproportioned to 
his strength ? Does he wish to try to carry the 
rodent, in spite of the evident folly of the attempt ? 
No, he does not even dream of it. He has 
just simply excavated the ground under the field 
mouse, and it sinks slowly but with steady pro- 
gress into the moving sand. I still distinguish 
his muzzle, with his ornaments of long grey mous- 
taches ; then it sinks, and shows itself in profile, 
gets smaller, and disappears for ever ; very soon 
the feet alone of the dead animal project from 
the surface of the meadow; they sink and sink, 
and are in their turn covered ; the object of the 
Necropborus is attained ; now its larvae have an 
asylum and a provision of victuals. 

A foreign naturalist, M. Gleditsch, has given 
some interesting details of the industry of this 



gravedigger. Going one day in pursuit of them, 
he caught four, and put them in a great glass 
globe half filled with earth and carefully closed. 
Then he put in two dead frogs. In a very little 
time one of the two frogs had been interred by 
the Necrophori. Meanwhile their companions in 
captivity wandered round the walls of the vase 
trying to escape, but finding none resigned them- 
selves to their fate and buried the other frog. 
Then he gave them the body of a linnet. A pair 
of our grave diggers at once set to work re- 
moving the ground beneath the bird's body, and 
dragging it by the feathers so as to make it go 
down quicker. The male Necrophorus ended by 
working at it alone for five hours. From time 
to time he came out of the pit, climbed upon the 
linnet, pushed it, and returned to his hole as quick 
as possible so as not to lose a minute. 

But at last even he was tired, and found that 
he must take some repose. He returned above 
ground, and, placing his head on the ground by 
the side of the body, remained motionless for an 



hour, without even moving the tips of his antennae. 
When his strength was renewed, he recommenced 
his digging operations with fresh courage. By 
next morning the linnet had sunk an inch and 
a half, and was quite surrounded by earth ; by 
evening the excavator had got it down half an 
inch more, and by the next day the bird had 
entirely disappeared. M. Gleditsch continued to 
give them small dead animals, which were buried 
one after the other. He found at last by the 
end of the fiftieth day that the four Necrophori 
had buried in the small space that they possessed, 
four frogs, three birds, two fish, a mole, and two 
grasshoppers, besides the entrails of another fish 
and two pieces of ox lung. Until further ex- 
periments of the same kind be made, it may be 
taken as a fact that one Necrophorus alone can 
in two days bury a body equal to forty times 
his own weight. 

And here was I who thought before I studied 
my breviary that work was man's privilege 



CHAPTER XIV. 

CONCLUSION. 

HOURS passed on, and I went on sleeping, happy 
in escaping the requirements of what is called the 
world. "What things had I not seen in these great 
enclosures ? Being rose upon being, and one exist- 
ence fluttered forward in another. Everywhere had 
I been witness of the presence of life, its struggles, 
and feverish activity. It could be perceived in the 
grass, on the leaves, on the surface of the earth, 
underground, in the midst of the air. Its powerful 
breath made everything fruitful, warmed the veins 
of millions of creatures, disintegrated even the stones 
themselves, and dragged them out of their inertia. 



How long could I have continued thus a sleep 
full of revelations, so absorbed in the beautiful 
picture unrolling before my eyes, respectfully 
spelling out the hieroglyphic characters of the 
great book of creation \ 

I cannot tell. A hundred years, perhaps, like 
that good monk of the Middle Ages, with mind 
enraptured among the glories of the heaven, who 
awoke with his beard white and his limbs failing 
from age. Time in reality is nothing at all, except 
as the stuff of which our existence is composed 
so short, alas, so ephemeral ! In absolute truth, 
there is no such thing as time ; the Infinite has 
no limits ; within it are unknown the landmarks 
that we so ingeniously place on our way as 
we pass to measure the surface. All that I can 
answer for is, that a very natural occurrence put 
an end to my reveries. 

At the very moment when the burying beetle 
was casting his last shovelful of earth on the 
stiffened body of the field mouse, a man took hold 
of my arm and 'shook me violently. I sprang up 




immediately in amazement, and I 

never shall I forget what was before my eyes. 

Before me stood the most curious-looking per- 
sonage imaginable. I have said it was a man, 
but any one might have made a journey from Pekin 
to Paris without find ing even among china curiosities 
such a fantastic specimen of our race. He had on 
a maroon, coat, with enormous pockets, and imple- 
ments of all kinds sticking out of them. He held 
a butterfly-net in his hand, a magnifying-glass 
hung from his neck, and his waistcoat was covered 
with long pins. A swarm of beetles ornamented 
his hat, pinned all about in the felt. 

He said to me : " Sir, I believe I am doing 
right in telling you that there is going to be 
a storm. And we have only just time to run to 
the farm." 

It was so indeed. The sky, which had been 
azure blue when I entered on the meadow, had 
gradually darkened and at last become covered by 
great heavy clouds. Some paler streaks of vapour 
of irregular shape were displayed upon this dark 




background, and slowly advanced towards the 
meadow from two opposite directions. They might 
have been compared to little ships with white sails, 
sailing in an ocean of shadows, and rushing into 
collision with one another stem to stem to fight by 
the board. Around us reigned a perfect calm. The 
air was heavy, sultry, and we had some difficulty in 
breathing. Some birds crossed the plain with shrill 
cries and disappeared among the bushes. Soon the 
leaves clashed together like so many little battledores 
moved by invisible hands. A light wind arose and 
shook the grass, increased as it got nearer the trees 
standing on the slopes, and rocked them violently. 
Some large heavy drops of rain fell around us with a 
splash- then a long roll of thunder echoing noisily 
made my companion and myself both quicken our 
steps towards the houses. As I walked I cast a 
last glance towards my meadow ; I could no longer 
see its thousand details, its tufted vegetation, and 
mysterious inhabitants, but only its broad outlines 
altered by the effect of the storm, and, as a horizon, 
the sky ploughed up by lightning. 



The new comer and I conversed as we passed 
up the valley. He was a distinguished but ori- 
ginal entomologist, who only employed himself on 
one class of Coleoptera, the Buprestidse. He had 
made a monograph of them, from the anatomical, 
organic, and historical points of view, and at his 
house possessed nearly all the varieties of them, in 
a cabinet ticketed with care, with their legs 
symmetrically extended, antennae regularly placed, 
with their names, surnames, and distinguishing 
markn, 

I spoke to him of my recent initiation into the 
inner mysteries of nature, the spectacles I had been 
witness of, the marvels of the instinct of the crea- 
tures, and their singular manners. 

" How much poetry," said I to him, "what beau- 
ties are there not beneath the tufts of wild plants we 
carelessly tread under foot ! How much is to be 
learnt from these various pictures of the life of the 
smallest of creatures ! The story of the population 
of an old Pear-Tree, simply written currents calamo, 
would itself alone furnish a great deal of interest." 



The collector looked at me, winking his eyes 

and slightly shrugging his shoulders, and said to me : 

"All this is not science. Insects are not 




subjects for mere gossip, especially the JBuprestidce. 
If a man has any pretensions to do the work well, 
he must begin by making out a catalogue of them 



and carefully detailing them in official language. 
Scientific terms must never be neglected, but rather 
freely used as tokens of depth. As for the habits 
of animals, it is more suitable to describe them 
soberly, and by preference rather in a concise and 
dry than in an amusing manner. The gate of 
the Temple of Wisdom ought to remain closed 
against those who have not energy enough to knock 
long at it to compel it to open to them." 

" But," answered I, rather vexed with this 
dogmatic speech, " I would wish you to remark that 
there is interest in the thousand and one exempli- 
fications of human life. People do not confine 
themselves to studying the material mechanism, but 
proceed also to inquire into it from the psycho- 
logical point of view." 

" No doubt," said he ; " no doubt. So I have 
often been pleased with reading romances." 

"And why should not the insect," I went on, 
pursuing my argument, " the elder born in creation, 
have, like man, not his romance I do not ask so 
much but his true history?" 





"What is your object?" lie replied, learnedly 
raising his forefinger to the point of his nose, which 
was remarkably long, sharp, and inquisitive. 

Said I to him, with the deepest obeisance : " To 
make nature beloved, and thus render the approach 
to science the easier." 

These words made him thoughtful. We hurried 
to the farm, and when we got there concluded a 
holy alliance and pressed each other's hands with 
cordiality. 

" I was wrong," he said to me ; " there are never 
too many workers in the Vineyard of Our Lord/' 


SING-SONG 



A NURSERY RHYME BOOK 



BY 



CHRISTINA G. ROSSETTI 



RHYMES 

DEDICATE D 

WITHOUT PERMISSION 

TO 
THE BABY 

WHO 
SUGGESTED THEM


CONTENTS 




A BABY'S cradle with no baby in it . . .15 

A city plum is not a plum . . . . .12 

A diamond or a coal ? . . . . . . 101 

A frisky lamb ........ 80 

A house of cards . . . . . . .115 

A linnet in a gilded cage . . . . . .21 

All the bells were ringing ...... 107 

A motherless soft lambkin ...... 63 

An emerald is as green as grass . . . . .102 

Angels at the foot ....... i 

A pin has a head, but has no hair .... 56 

A pocket handkerchief to hem ..... 43 

A ring upon her finger ...... 95 

A rose has thorns as well as honey . . . .121 

A toadstool comes up in a night ..... 42 

A white hen sitting ....... 86 

Baby cry 6 

Baby lies so last asleep ...... 132 



IX 



SING-SONG 



Eight o'clock 

Ferry me across the water . 

Fly away, fly away over the sea . 

" Goodbye in fear, goodbye in sorrow ' 
Growing in the vale . 

Heartsease in my garden bed 

Hear what the mournful linnets say . 

Hope is like a harebell trembling from its birth 

Hop-o'-my-thumb and little Jack Homer . 

Hopping frog, hop here and be seen . 

How many seconds in a minute ? 

Hurt no living thing ..... 



PAGE 



Blind from my birth . 9 1 

Boats sail on the rivers . . 1O 3 
Bread and milk for breakfast 

Brown and furry ... 4 1 

Brownie, Brownie, let down your milk 27 

Clever little Willie wee . 1T 9 

Crimson curtains round my mother's bed . 131 

Crying, my little one, footsore and weary ? . 19 

Currants on a bush ... 87 

Dancing on the hill-tops 

Dead in the cold, a song-singing thrush 

" Ding a ding" . 



CONTENTS xi 



PAGE 

I am a King . . . . . . -73 

I caught a little ladybird . . . . . .106 

I dreamt I caught a little owl . . . . .112 

I dug and dug amongst the snow . . . .11 

If all were rain and never sun . . . . .25 

If a mouse could fly . . . . . . -75 

If a pig wore a wig ....... 44 

If hope grew on a bush ...... 70 

If I were a Oueen ....... 34 

If stars dropped out of heaven . . . . .124 

If the moon came from heaven . . . . .127 

If the sun could tell us half . . . . .126 

I have a little husband ...... 109 

I have a Poll parrot . . . . . . .114 

I have but one rose in the world .... 89 

I know a baby, such a baby . . . . .133 

In the meadow what in the meadow ? . . .79 
I planted a hand . . . . . . 71 

Is the moon tired ? she looks so pale . . . .123 

January cold desolate . . . . . 51 

" Kookoorookoo ! kookoorookoo ! ' . . . . 5 

Lie a-bed . . . . . . . 135 

Love me, I love you ...... 2 

Lullaby, oh, lullaby! . . . . . .134 

Margaret has a mil king-pail ..... 78 
Minnie and Mattie ....... 30 



xil SING-SONG 



PAGE 



Minnie bakes oaten cakes . . . . . .85 

Mix a pancake . . . . . . . .81 

Motherless baby and babylcss mother . . . .130 

Mother shake the cherry-tree . . . . -55 

My baby has a father and a mother .... 3 

My baby has a mottled fist . . . . .23 

Oh, fair to see . . . . . . . .118 

O Lady Moon, your horns point toward the east . .128 

One and one are two . , . .46 

On the grassy banks . . . . . . .28 

O sailor, come ashore . . . . . .100 

Our little baby fell asleep ...... 4. 

O wind, where have you been . . . . .26 

O wind, why do you never rest . . . . .18 

Playing at bob cherry . . . . . .88 

Pussy has a whiskered face ..... 68 

Roses blushing red and white ..... 93 

Rosy maiden Winifred ...... 90 

Rushes in a watery place ...... 29 

Seldom " can't " ....... 45 

Sing me a song ........ 76 

Stroke a flint, and there is nothing to admire . . 36 

Swift and sure the swallow . . . . . 1 1 I 

The city mouse lives in a house ..... 60 
The days are clear ....... 39 



CONTENTS xiii 



PAGE 

The dear old woman in the lane . . . . 1 10 

The dog lies in his kennel . .... 69 

The horses of the sea . . .... no 

The lily has an air . . . . . -77 

The lily has a smooth stalk . . . . .104 

The peach tree on the southern wall . . . .120 

The peacock has a score of eyes ..... 67 

There is but one May in the year . . . -37 
There is one that has a head without an eye . . 74 
There's snow on the fields ..... o 

The rose that blushes rosy red . . . . .117 

The rose with such a bonny blush . . . .116 

The summer nights are short ..... 38 

The wind has such a rainy sound .... 82 

Three little children. ...... 83 

Three plum buns ....... 62 

Twist me a crown of wind-flowers .... 40 

Under the ivy bush . . . . . . .72 

Wee tvee husband . . . . . . .108 

What are heavy ? sea-sand and sorrow . . -35 

What does the bee do ? . . . . . .113 

What does the donkey bray about ? . . . .61 

What do the stars do ? . . . . . .129 

What is pink ? a rose is pink . . . . -53 

What will you give me for my pound ? . .50 
When a mounting skylark sings ..... 97 



xiv SING-SONG 



PAGE 

When fishes set umbrellas up . . . .66 

When the cows come home the milk i., coining . . 92 
Where innocent bright-eyed daisies are 59 
Who has seen the wind ? . 98 

Why did baby die ....... 24 

Wrens and robins in the hedge . . . . .22 

Your brother has a falcon . . . . . .13 



IHt 

. 




Jfi 



Angels at the foot, 

And Angels at the head, 
And like a curly little lamb 

My pretty babe in bed. 



B 




Love me, I love you, 
Love me, my baby ; 

Sing it high, sing it low, 
Sing it as may be. 

Mother's arms under you, 
Her eyes above you ; 

Sing it high, sing it low, 
Love me, I love you. 




My baby has a father and a mother, 

Rich little baby ! 
Fatherless, motherless, I know another 

Forlorn as may be : 

Poor little baby ! 




Our little baby fell asleep, 

And may not wake again 
For days and days, and weeks and weeks ; 

But then he 'Jl wake again, 
And come with his own pretty look, 

And kiss Mamma again. 










" Kookoorookoo ! kookoorookoo ! ' 
Crows the cock before the morn ; 

" Kikirikee ! kikirikee ! ' 
Roses in the east are born. 

" Kookoorookoo ! kookoorookoo ! ' 
Early birds begin their singing ; 

( ' Kikirikee ! kikirikee ! " 

The day, the day, the day is springing. 




Baby cry- 
Oh fie ! 



At the physic in the cup : 
Gulp it twice 
And gulp it thrice, 

Baby gulp it up. 




Eight o'clock ; 

The postman's knock ! 

Five letters for Papa ; 

One for Lou, 

And none for you, 
And three for dear Mamma. 



\ 




Bread and milk for breakfast, 
And woollen frocks to wear, 

And a crumb for robin redbreast 
On the cold days of the year. 



s 




There 's snow on the fields, 
And cold in the cottage, 

While I sit in the chimney nook 
Supping hot pottage. 

My clothes are soft and warm, 

Fold upon fold, 
But I 'm so sorry for the poor 

Out in the cold. 




Dead in the cold, a song-singing thrush, 
Dead at the foot of a snowberry bush,- 
Weave him a coffin of rush, 
Dig him a grave where the soft mosses grow, 
Raise him a tombstone of snow. 



10 




I dug and dug amongst the snow, 

And thought the flowers would never grow ; 

I dug and dug amongst the sand, 

And still no green thing came to hand. 

Melt, O snow ! the warm winds blow . 
To thaw the flowers and melt the snow ; 
But all the winds from every land 
Will rear no blossom from the sand. 



ii 




A city plum is not a plum ; 

A dumb-bell is no bell, though dumb ; 

A party rat is not a rat ; 

A sailor's cat is not a cat ; 

A soldier's frog is not a frog ; 

A captain's log is not a log. 



12 




Your brother has a falcon, 

Your sister has a flower ; 
But what is left for mannikin, 

Born within an hour ? 

I '11 nurse you on my knee, my knee, 

My own little son ; 
I '11 rock you, rock you, in my arms, 

My least little one. 




Hear what the mournful linnets say : 
" We built our nest compact and warm, 

But cruel boys came round our way 
And took our summerhouse by storm. 

" They crushed the eggs so neatly laid ; 

So now we sit with drooping wing, 
And watch the ruin they have made, 

Too late to build, too sad to sing." 

14 




A baby's cradle with no baby in it, 

A baby's grave where autumn leaves drop sere ; 
The sweet soul gathered home to Paradise, 

The body waiting here. 




Hop-o'-my-thumb and little Jack Horner, 
What do you mean by, tearing and fighting ? 

Sturdy dog Trot close round the corner, 
I never caught him growling and biting. 



16 




Hope is like a harebell trembling from its birth, 
Love is like a rose the joy of all the earth ; 
Faith is like a lily lifted high and white, 
Love is like a lovely rose the world's delight ; 
Harebells and sweet lilies show a thornless growth, 
But the rose with all its thorns excels them both. 




O wind, why do you never rest, 
Wandering, whistling to and fro, 

Bringing rain out of the west, 

From the dim north bringing snow ? 



18 




Crying, my little one, footsore and weary ? 

Fall asleep, pretty one, warm on my shoulder : 
I must tramp on through the winter night dreary, 

While the snow falls on me colder and colder. 

You are my one, and I have not another ; 

Sleep soft, my darling, my trouble and treasure ; 
Sleep warm and soft in the arms of your mother, 

Dreaming of pretty things, dreaming of pleasure. 




Growing in the vale 

By the uplands hilly, 
Growing straight and frail, 

Lady Daffadowndilly. 

In a golden crown, 
And a scant green gown 

While the spring blows chilly, 
Lady Daffadown, 

Sweet Daffadowndilly. 



20 




A linnet in a gilded cage, 
A linnet on a bough, 

In frosty winter one might doubt 
Which bird is luckier now. 

But let the trees burst out in leaf, 
And nests be on the bough, 

Which linnet is the luckier bird, 
Oh who could doubt it now ? 



21 




Wrens and robins in the hedge, 

Wrens and robins here and there ; 
Building, perching, pecking, fluttering, 
Everywhere ! 



22 




My baby has a mottled fist, 

My baby has a neck in creases ; 

My baby kisses and is kissed, 

For he 's the very thing for kisses. 



2 3 




K^'<P5 



Why did baby die, 
Making Father sigh, 
Mother cry ? 

Flowers, that bloom to die, 
Make no reply 
Of "why?" 
But bow and die. 







If all were rain and never sun, 
No bow could span the hill ; 

If all were sun and never rain, 
There 'd be no rainbow still. 




O wind, where have you been, 
That you blow so sweet ? 

Among the violets 

Which blossom at your feet. 

The honeysuckle waits 

For Summer and for heat. 

But violets in the chilly Spring 
Make the turf so sweet. 



Brownie, Brownie, let down your milk 
White as swansdown and smooth as silk, 
Fresh as dew and pure as snow : 
For I know where the cowslips blow, 
And you shall have a cowslip wreath 
No sweeter scented than your breath. 



27 




On the grassy banks 
Lambkins at their pranks ; 
Woolly sisters, woolly brothers 

Jumping off their feet 
While their woolly mothers 

Watch by them and bleat. 




Rushes in a watery place, 

And reeds in a hollow ; 
A soaring skylark in the sky, 

A darting swallow ; 
And where pale blossom used to hang 

Ripe fruit to follow. 



29 




Minnie and Mattie 
And fat little May, 

Out in the country, 
Spending a day. 

Such a bright day, 

With the sun glowing, 

And the trees half in leaf, 
And the grass growing. 

Pinky white pigling 

Squeals through his snout, 



Woolly white lambkin 
Frisks all about. 

Cluck ! cluck ! the nursing hen 

Summons her folk,- 
Ducklings all downy soft 

Yellow as yolk. 

Cluck ! cluck ! the mother hen 
Summons her chickens 

To peck the dainty bits 
Found in her pickings. 

Minnie and Mattie 

And May carry posies, 

Half of sweet violets, 
Half of primroses. 

Give the sun time enough, 
Glowing and glowing, 

He '11 rouse the roses 

And bring them blowing. 

3* 



Don't wait for roses 

Losing to-day, 
O Minnie, Mattie, 

And wise little May. 

Violets and primroses 
Blossom to-day 

For Minnie and Mattie 
And fat little May. 




Heartsease in my garden bed, 

With sweetwilliam white and red, 
Honeysuckle on my wall : 

J J 

Heartsease blossoms in my heart 
When sweet William comes to call, 

But it withers when we part, 
And the honey-trumpets fall. 

33 




If I were a Queen, 
What would I do ? 

I 'd make you King, 
And I 'd wait on you. 

If I were a King, 

What would I do ? 
I 'd make you Queen. 

J c>J 

For I 'd marry you. 



34 




What are heavy? sea-sand and sorrow : 
What are brief? to-day and to-morrow : 
What are frail ? Spring blossoms and youth : 
What are deep ? the ocean and truth. 



35 



Stroke a flint, and there is nothing to admire : 
.Strike a flint, and forthwith flash out sparks of 
fire. 



pe^^ ^w^- 'v^-v- 1 -; 



Jl; SI : ' 







There is but one May in the year, 

And sometimes May is wet and cold ; 

There is but one May in the year 
Before the year grows old. 

Yet though it be the chilliest May, 

With least of sun and most of showers, 

Its wind and dew, its night and day, 
Bring up the flowers. 

37 




The summer nights are short 
Where northern days are long : 

For hours and hours lark after lark 
Trills out his song. 

The summer days are short 

Where southern nights are long : 

Yet short the night when nightingales 
Trill out their song. 

o 

38 




The days are clear, 

Day after day, 
When April 's here, 

That leads to May, 
And June 
Must follow soon : 

Stay, June, stay !- 
If only we could stop the moon 
And June ! 
39 




M, 



Twist me a crown of wind-flowers ; 

That I may fly away 
To hear the singers at their song, 

And players at their play. 

Put on your crown of wind-flowers : 
But whither would you go ? 

Beyond the surging of the sea 
And the storms that blow. 

Alas ! your crown of wind-flowers 
Can never make you fly : 

I twist them in a crown to-day, 
And to-night they die. 

40 




Brown and furry 

Caterpillar in a hurry, 

Take your walk 

To the shady leaf, or stalk, 

Or what not, 

Which may be the chosen spot. 

No toad spy you, 

Hovering bird of prey pass by you ; 

Spin and die, 

To live again a butterfly. 

41 




A toadstool comes up in a night, 
Learn the lesson, little folk : 

An oak grows on a hundred years, 
But then it is an oak. 




A pocket handkerchief to hem- 
Oh dear, oh dear, oh dear ! 

How many stitches it will take 
Before it 's done, I fear. 



Yet set a stitch and then a stitch, 
And stitch and stitch away, 

Till stitch by stitch the hem is done- 
And after work is play ! 



43 




If a pig wore a wig, 
What could we say ? 

Treat him as a gentleman, 
And say " Good day." 

If his tail chanced to fail, 
What could we do ?- 

Send him to the tailoress 
To get one new. 



44 




Seldom " can't,' 1 
Seldom " don't " ; 

Never " shan't," 
Never " won't. 



45 




I and i are 2- 



That 's for me and you. 

2 and 2 are 4 
That 's a couple more. 

3 and 3 are 6 
Barley-sugar sticks. 

4 and 4 are 8 
Tumblers at the gate. 

5 and 5 are 10 
Bluff seafaring men. 

4 6 



6 and 6 are 12 
Garden lads who delve. 

7 and 7 are 14 

Young men bent on sporting. 

8 and 8 are 16 

Pills the doctor 's mixing. 

9 and 9 are 1 8 
Passengers kept waiting. 

10 and 10 are 20 
Roses pleasant plenty ! 

1 1 and 1 1 are 22 

Sums for brother George to do. 

12 and 1 2 are 24 

Pretty pictures, and no more. 



47 




How many seconds in a minute ? 
Sixty, and no more in it. 

How many minutes in an hour ? 
Sixty for sun and shower. 

How many hours in a day ? 
Twenty-four for work and play. 

4 8 






How many days in a week ? 
Seven both to hear and speak. 

How many weeks in a month ? 
Four, as the swift moon runn'th. 

How many months in a year ? 
Twelve the almanack makes clear. 

How many years in an age ? 
One hundred says the sage. 

How many ages in time ? 
No one knows the rhyme. 



49 





What will you give me for my pound ? 
Full twenty shillings round. 
What will you give me for my shilling ? 
Twelve pence to give I 'm willing. 
What will you give me for my penny ? 
Four farthings, just so many. 




January cold desolate ; 
February all dripping wet ; 
March wind ranges ; 
April changes ; 
Birds sing in tune 

To flowers of May, 
And sunny June 

Brings longest day ; 
In scorched July 

J * 

The storm-clouds fly 
Lightning-torn ; 
August bears corn, 
September fruit ; 



Iii rough October 

o 

Earth must disrobe her ; 
Stars fall and shoot 
In keen November ; 
And night is loi. 
And cold is stro'-g 
In bleak December. 




What is pink ? a rose is pink 

By the fountain's brink. 

What is red ? a poppy 's red 

In its barley bed. 

What is blue ? the sky is blue 

Where the clouds float thro'. 

What is white ? a swan is white 

Sailing in the light. 

What is yellow ? pears are yellow, 

Rich and ripe and mellow. 

53 



What is green ? the grass is green, 
With small flowers between. 
What is violet ? clouds are violet 
In the summer twilight. 
What is orange ? why, an orange, 
Just an orange ! 



54 




Mother shake the cherry-tree, 
Susan catch a cherry ; 

Oh how funny that will be, 
Let 's be merry ! 

One for brother, one for sister, 
Two for mother more, 

Six for father, hot and tired, 
Knocking at the door. 

55 





A pin has a head, but has no hair ; 
A clock has a face, but no mouth there ; 
Needles have eyes, but they cannot see ; 
A fly has a trunk without lock or key ; 
A timepiece may lose, but cannot win ; 
A corn-field dimples without a chin ; 
A hill has no leg, but has a foot ; 
A wine-glass a stem, but not a root ; 



A watch has hands, but no thumb or finger ; 
A boot has a tongue, but is no singer ; 
Rivers run, though they have no feet ; 
A saw has teeth, but it does not eat ; 
Ash-trees have keys, yet never a lock ; 
And baby crows, without being a cock. 





Hopping frog, hop here and be seen, 
I '11 not pelt you with stick or stone : 

Your cap is laced and your coat is green ; 
Good-bye, we '11 let each other alone. 

Plodding toad, plod here and be looked at, 
You the finger of scorn is crooked at : 
But though you 're lumpish, you 're harmless too ; 
You won't hurt me, and I won't hurt you. 

53 




Where innocent bright-eyed daisies are, 
With blades of grass between, 

Each daisy stands up like a star 
Out of a sky of green. 



59 




The city mouse lives in a house ; 
The garden mouse lives in a bower, 

He 's friendly with the frogs and toads, 
And sees the pretty plants in flower. 

The city mouse eats bread and cheese ;- 
The garden mouse eats what he can ; 

We will not grudge him seeds and stalks, 
Poor little timid furry man. 



60 




What does the donkey bray about ? 
What does the pig grunt through his snout ? 
What does the goose mean by a hiss ? 
Oh, Nurse, if you can tell me this, 
I '11 give you such a kiss. 

The cockatoo calls " cockatoo," 
The magpie chatters " how d' ye do ? 
The jackdaw bids me " go away," 
Cuckoo cries " cuckoo ' half the day : 
What do the others say ? 

61 




*fo*&&tf r> '*} 



Three plum buns 

To eat here at the stile 

In the clover meadow, 

For we have walked a mile. 

One for you, and one for me, 

And one left over : 
Give it to the boy who shouts 

To scare sheep from the clover. 

62 




A motherless soli lambkin 

Alone upon a hill ; 
No mother's fleece *o shelter him 
And wrap him from the cold :- 
I '11 run to him and comfort him, 

I '11 fetch him, that I will ; 
I '11 care for him and feed him 
Until he 's strong and bold. 




"7? 



Dancing on the hill-tops, 
Singing in the valleys, 

Laughing with the echoes, 
Merry little Alice. 

Playing games with lambkins 
In the flowering valleys, 

Gathering pretty posies, 
Helpful little Alice. 
6 4 



If her father's cottage 
Turned into a palace, 

And he owned the hill-tops 
And the flowering valleys, 

She 'd be none the happier, 
Happy little Alice. 




When fishes set umbrellas up 
If the rain-drops run, 

Lizards will want their parasols 
To shade them from the sun. 



66 




The peacock has a score of eyes, 
With which he cannot see ; 

The cod-fish has a silent sound, 
However that may be ; 

No dandelions tell the time, 
Although they turn to clocks ; 

Cat's-cradle does not hold the cat, 
Nor foxglove fit the fox. 

67 




Pussy has a whiskered face, 
Kitty has such pretty ways ; 
Doggie scampers when I call, 
And has a heart to love us all 



68 




The dog lies in his kennel, 
And Puss purrs on the rug, 

And baby perches on my knee 
For me to love and hug. 

Pat the dog and stroke the cat, 
Kach in its decree ; 

O ' 

And cuddle and kiss my baby, 
And baby kiss me. 



69 




If hope grew on a bush, 

And joy grew on a tree, 
What a nosegay for the plucking 

There would be ! 

But oh ! in windy autumn, 
When frail flowers wither, 

What should we do for hope and joy, 
Fading together ? 

70 




JTi 



I planted a hand 

And there came up a palm, 
I planted a heart 

And there came up balm. 

Then I planted a wish, 
But there sprang a thorn, 

While heaven frowned with thunder 
And earth sighed forlorn. 




Under the ivy bush 

One sits sighing, 
And under the willow tree 

One sits crying :- 

Under the ivy bush 

Cease from your sighing, 
But under the willow tree 

Lie down a-dying. 



72 



I am a King, 

Or an Emperor rather, 
I wear crown-imperial 

And prince's-feather ; 
Golden-rod is the sceptre 

I wield and wag, " 
And a broad purple flag-flower 

Waves for my flag. 

Elder the pithy 

With old-man and sage, 
These are my councillors 

Green in old age ; 
Lords-and-ladies in silence 

Stand round me and wait, 
While gay ragged-robin 

Makes bows at my gate. 



73 




There is one that has a head without an eye, 
And there 's one that has an eye without a head : 

You may find the answer if you try ; 

And when all is said, 
Half the answer hangs upon a thread ! 



74 







If a mouse could fly, 

Or if a crow could swim, 

Or if a sprat could walk and talk, 
I 'd like to be like him. 

If a mouse could fly, 

He might fly away ; 
Or if a crow could swim, 

It might turn him grey ; 
Or if a sprat could walk and talk, 
What would he find to say ? 



75 




Sing me a song 

What shall I sing ? 

Three merry sisters 
Dancing in a ring, 

Light and fleet upon their feet 
As birds upon the wing. 

Tell me a tale 



What shall I tell ?- 



Two mournful sisters, 

And a tolling knell, 
Tolling ding and tolling dong, 

Ding dong bell. 
76 




The lily has an air, 

And the snowdrop a grace, 
And the sweetpea a way, 

And the heartsease a face,- 

Yet there 's nothing like the rose 

When she blows. 



77 







Margaret has a milking-pail, 

And she rises early ; 
Thomas has a threshing-flail, 

And he 's up betimes. 
Sometimes crossing through the grass 

Where the dew lies pearly, 
They say "Good-morrow" as they pass 
By the leafy limes. 




In the meadow what in the meadow? 
Bluebells, buttercups, meadowsweet, 
And fairy rings for the children's feet 
In the meadow. 

In the garden- -what in the garden ? 
Jacob's-ladder and Solomon's-seal, 
And Love-lies-bleeding beside All-heal 
In the garden. 



79 




A frisky lamb 
And a frisky child 
Playing their pranks 

In a cowslip meadow : 
The sky all blue 
And the air all mild 
And the fields all sun 

And the lanes half shadow. 



80 




Mix a pancake, 
Stir a pancake, 

Pop it in the pan ; 
Fry the pancake, 
Toss the pancake, - 

Catch it if you can. 



Si 




The wind has such a rainy sound 
Moaning through the town, 

The sea has such a windy sound, - 
Will the ships go down ? 

The apples in the orchard 

Tumble from their tree.- 
Oh, will the ships go down, go down, 

In the windy sea ? 

82 




Three little children 

On the wide wide earth, 

Motherless children 

Cared for from their birth 
By tender angels. 

Three little children 
On the wide wide sea, 

Motherless children- 
Safe as safe can be 

With guardian angels. 

83 




'>*,? JHu v ., M 



Fly away, fly away over the sea, 

Sun-loving swallow, for summer is done ; 
Come again, come again, come back to me, 

Bringing the summer and bringing the sun. 



S 4 




Minnie bakes oaten cakes, 

Minnie brews ale, 
All because her Johnny 's coming 

Home from sea. 
And she glows like a rose, 

Who was so pale, 

And " Are you sure the church clock goes ? 
Says she. 




A white hen sitting 

On white eggs three : 
Next, three speckled chickens 

As plump as plump can be. 

An owl, and a hawk, 

And a bat come to see : 
But chicks beneath their mother's wing 

Squat safe as safe can be. 



86 




Currants on a bush, 

And figs upon a stem, 
And cherries on a bending bough, 

And Ned to gather them. 



Playing at bob cherry 

Tom and Nell and Hugh : 

Cherry bob ! cherry bob ! 
There 's a bob for you. 

Tom bobs a cherry 

For gaping snapping Hugh, 
While curly-pated Nelly 

Snaps at it too. 

Look, look, look 

Oh what a sight to see ! 

The wind is playing cherry bob 
With the cherry tree. 



88 




I have but one rose in the world, 
And my one rose stands a-drooplng 

Oh, when my single rose is dead 

There '11 be but thorns for stooping. 



89 




/' 



\ 



Rosy maiden Winifred, 
With a milkpail on her head, 
Tripping through the corn, 

While the dew lies on the wheat 

In the sunny morn. 
Scarlet shepherd's-weatherglass 
Spreads wide open at her feet 

As they pass ; 

Cornflowers give their almond smell 
While she brushes by, 
And a lark sings from the sky 
"All is well." 
90 



Blind from my birth, 

Where flowers are springing 

I sit on earth 

All dark. 

Hark ! hark ! 

A lark is singing, 

His notes are all for me, 

For me his mirth :- 

Till some day I shall see 

Beautiful flowers 

And birds in bowers 

Where all Joy Bells are ringing. 




When the cows come home the milk is coming, 
Honey 's made while the bees are humming ; 
Duck and drake on the rushy lake, 
And the deer live safe in the breezy brake ; 
And timid, funny, brisk little bunny, 
Winks his nose and sits all sunny. 



92 




Roses blushing red and white, 

For delight ; 
Honeysuckle wreaths above, 

For love ; 
Dim sweet-scented heliotrope, 

For hope ; 
Shining lilies tall and straight, 

For royal state ; 
Dusky pansies, let them be 

For memory ; 
With violets of fragrant breath, 

For death. 

93 




" Ding a ding," 
The sweet bells sing, 
And say : 

" Come, all be gay ' 
For a wedding day. 

" Dong a dong," 
The bells sigh long, 
And call : 

" Weep one, weep all 
For a funeral. 

94 




A ring upon her finger, 

Walks the bride, 
With the bridegroom tall and handsome 

At her side. 

A veil upon her forehead, 

Walks the bride, 
With the bridegroom proud and merry 

At her side. 

Fling flowers beneath the footsteps 

Of the bride ; 
Fling flowers before the bridegroom 

At her side. 

95 




" Ferry me across the water, 

Do, boatman, do." 
" If you Ve a penny in your purse 

I '11 ferry you." 

" 1 have a penny in my purse, 
And my eyes are blue ; 

So ferry me across the water, 
Do, boatman, do." 

" Step into my ferry-boat, 

Be they black or blue, 
And for the penny in your purse 

I '11 ferry you." 

96 




When a mounting skylark sings 
In the sunlit summer morn, 

I know that heaven is up on high, 
And on earth are fields of corn. 

But when a nightingale sings 
In the moonlit summer even, 

I know not if earth is merely earth, 
Only that heaven is heaven. 



97 




H 




J-' / 



Who has seen the wind ? 

Neither I nor you : 
But when the leaves hang trembling 

The wind is passing thro'. 

Who has seen the wind ? 

Neither you nor I : 
But when the trees bow down their heads 

The wind is passing by. 



98 








The horses of the sea 
Rear a foaming crest, 

But the horses of the land 
Serve us the best. 

The horses of the land 
Munch corn and clover, 

While the foaming sea-horses 
Toss and turn over. 



99 




sailor, come ashore, 

What have you brought for me ? 
Red coral, white coral, 
Coral from the sea. 

1 did not dig it from the ground, 

Nor pluck it from a tree ; 
Feeble insects made it 
In the stormy sea. 



IOO 




A diamond or a coal ? 

A diamond, if you please : 
Who cares about a clumsy coal 

Beneath the summer trees ? 

A diamond or a coal ? 

A coal, sir, if you please : 
One comes to care about the coal 

What time the waters freeze. 



101 




An emerald is as green as grass ; 

A ruby red as blood ; 
A sapphire shines as blue as heaven ; 

A flint lies in the mud. 

A diamond is a brilliant stone, 
To catch the world's desire ; 

An opal holds a fiery spark ; 
But a flint holds fire. 



IO2 



-V.-x. 




Boats sail on the rivers, 

And ships sail on the seas ; 

But clouds that sail across the sky 
Are prettier far than these. 

There are bridges on the rivers, 

As pretty as you please ; 
But the bow that bridges heaven, 

And overtops the trees, 
And builds a road from earth to sky, 

Is prettier far than these. 



103 




The lily has a smooth stalk, 
Will never hurt your hand ; 

But the rose upon her briar 
Is lady of the land. 

There 's sweetness in an apple tree, 

And profit in the corn ; 
But lady of all beauty 

Is a rose upon a thorn. 

When with moss and honey 
She tips her bending briar, 

And half unfolds her glowing heart, 
She sets the world on fire. 




Hurt no living thing : 

Ladybird, nor butterfly, 
Nor moth with dusty wing, 

Nor cricket chirping cheerily, 
Nor grasshopper so light of leap, 

Nor dancing gnat, nor beetle fat, 
Nor harmless worms that creep. 




I caught a little ladybird 

That flies far away ; 
I caught a little lady wife 

That is both staid and gay. 

Come back, my scarlet ladybird, 

Back from far away ; 
I weary of my dolly wife, 

My wife that cannot play. 

She 's such a senseless wooden thing 
She stares the livelong day ; 

Her wig of gold is stiff and cold 
And cannot change to grey. 

1 06 




All the bells were ringing 
And all the birds were singing, 
When Molly sat down crying 

For her broken doll : 

O you silly Moll ! 
Sobbing and sighing 

For a broken doll, 
When all the bells are ringing, 
And all the birds are singing. 



107 




Wee wee husband, 

Give me some money, 
I have no comfits, 

And I have no honey. 

Wee wee wifie, 

I have no money, 
Milk, nor meat, nor bread to eat, 

Comfits, nor honey. 



1 08 




I have a little husband 

And he is gone to sea, 
The winds that whistle round his ship 

Fly home to me. 

The winds that sigh about me 

Return again to him ; 
So I would fly, if only I 

Were light of limb. 



109 




The dear old woman in the lane 

Is sick and sore with pains and aches, 

We '11 go to her this afternoon, 

And take her tea and eggs and cakes. 

We '11 stop to make the kettle boil, 
And brew some tea, and set the tray, 

And poach an egg, and toast a cake, 
And wheel her chair round, if we may. 



IIO 




Swift and sure the swallow, 
Slow and sure the snail : 

Slow and sure may miss his way, 
Swift and sure may fail. 




(C 



I dreamt I caught a little owl 
And the bird was blue " 



" But you may hunt for ever 
And not find such an one. : 

" I dreamt I set a sunflower, 
And red as blood it grew- 



" But such a sunflower never 
Bloomed beneath the sun.' 



112 




What does the bee do ? 

Bring home honey. 
And what does Father do ? 

Bring home money. 
And what does Mother do ? 

Lay out the money. 
And what does baby do? 

Eat up the honey. 



ii 




I have a Poll parrot, 
And Poll is my doll, 

And my nurse is Polly, 
And my sister Poll. 

"Polly!" cried Polly, 
" Don't tear Polly dolly 
While soft-hearted Poll 
Trembled for the doll. 
114 



i > 




A house of cards 
Is neat and small : 

Shake the table, 
It must fall. 

Find the Court cards 

One by one ; 
Raise it, roof it,- 

Now it 's done :- 
Shake the table ! 

That 's the fun. 




The rose with such a bonny blush, 
What has the rose to blush about ? 

If it 's the sun that makes her flush, 
What 's in the sun to flush about ? 



116 




The rose that blushes rosy red, 
She must hang her head ; 

The lily that blows spotless white, 
She may stand upright. 



117 




Oh, fair to see 
Bloom-laden cherry tree, 

Arrayed in sunny white ; 

An April day's delight, 
Oh, fair to see ! 

Oh, fair to see 

Fruit-laden cherry tree, 
With balls of shining red 
Decking a leafy head, 

Oh, fair to see ! 

118 




Clever little Willie wee, 

Bright-eyed, blue-eyed little fellow ; 
Merry little Margery 

With her hair all yellow. 

Little Willie in his heart 

Is a sailor on the sea, 
And he often cons a chart 

With sister Margery. 



119 




The peach tree on the southern wall 
Has basked so long beneath the sun, 

Her score of peaches great and small 
Bloom rosy, every one. 

A peach for brothers, one for each, 
A peach for you and a peach for me ; 

But the biggest, rosiest, downiest peach 
For Grandmamma with her tea. 



120 







A rose has thorns as well as honey, 
I '11 not have her for love or money ; 
An iris grows so straight and fine, 
That she shall be no friend of mine ; 
Snowdrops like the snow would chill me ; 
Nightshade would caress and kill me ; 
Crocus like a spear would fright me ; 
Dragon's-mouth might bark or bite me ; 
Convolvulus but blooms to die ; 



121 



A wind-flower suggests a sigh ; 
Love-lies-bleeding makes me sad ; 
And poppy-juice would drive me mad 
But give me holly, bold and jolly, 
Honest, prickly, shining holly ; 
Pluck me holly leaf and berry 
For the day when I make merry. 



122 




Is the moon tired ? she looks so pale 
Within her misty veil : 
She scales the sky from east to west, 
And takes no rest. 



Before the coming of the night 
The moon shows papery white ; 
Before the dawning of the day 
She fades away. 




'Jft 



If stars dropped out of heaven, 
And if flowers took their place, 

The sky would still look very fair, 
And fair earth's face. 

Winged angels might fly down to us 

To pluck the stars, 
But we could only long for flowers 

Beyond the cloudy bars. 

124 




" Goodbye in fear, goodbye in sorrow, 

Goodbye, and all in vain, 
Never to meet again, my dear- 

" Never to part again." 
" Goodbye to-day, goodbye to-morrow, 

Goodbye till earth shall wane, 
Never to meet again, my dear- 

" Never to part again." 



125 




If the sun could tell us half 

That he hears and sees, 
Sometimes he would make us laugh, 

Sometimes make us cry : 
Think of all the birds that make 

Homes among the trees ; 
Think of cruel boys who take 
Birds that cannot fly. 



126 




If the moon came from heaven, 

Talking all the way, 
What could she have to tell us, 

And what could she say ? 

"I've seen a hundred pretty things, 
And seen a hundred gay ; 

But only think : I peep by night 
And do not peep by day ! ' 



127 




O Lady Moon, your horns point toward the east 

Shine, be increased ; 
O Lady Moon, your horns point toward the west. 

Wane, be at rest. 



128 




What do the stars do 

Up in the sky, 
Higher than the wind can blow, 

Or the clouds can fly ? 

j 

Each star in its own glory 

Circles, circles still ; 
As it was lit to shine and set, 

And do its Maker's will. 



129 




Motherless baby and babyless mother, 
Bring them together to love one another. 



130 




Crimson curtains round my mother's bed, 

Silken soft as may be ; 
Cool white curtains round about my bed, 

For I am but a baby. 




Baby lies so fast asleep 

That we cannot wake her : 

Will the Angels clad in white 
Fly from heaven to take her ? 

Baby lies so fast asleep 

That no pain can grieve her ; 
Put a snowdrop in her hand, 

Kiss her once and leave her. 



132 




I know a baby, such a baby,- 

Round blue eyes and cheeks of pink, 

Such an elbow furrowed with dimples, 
Such a wrist where creases sink. 

" Cuddle and love me, cuddle and love me, 1 
Crows the mouth of coral pink : 

Oh, the bald head, and, oh, the sweet lips, 
And, oh, the sleepy eyes that wink ! 



133 




Lullaby, oh, lullaby ! 
Flowers are closed and lambs are sleeping ; 

Lullaby, oh, lullaby ! 
Stars are up, the moon is peeping ; 

Lullaby, oh, lullaby ! 
While the birds are silence keeping, 

(Lullaby, oh, lullaby !) 
Sleep, my baby, fall a-sleeping, 

Lullaby, oh, lullaby ! 






134 




Lie a-bed, 

Sleepy head, 

Shut up eyes, bo-peep ; 

Till daybreak 

Never wake : 

Baby, sleep. 


If my young reader have already visited Fairy dell  Hall and passed a few merry hours with Know a bit the learned fay it is quite a natural  thing that an introduction to Fairy Frisket  should follow I need explain to no one where these  fairies have come from whether they lurk in flower  or book or only in some quiet little nook in the brain  of A L 0 E My reader will scarcely expect in his  walks to see either Knowabit or Frisket spring from  under a fern leaf or sit rocking on a hawthorn spray  but he may and very probably will meet some other of  the curious creatures described in my little book It  is as well to mention that my own knowledge of the  manners and customs of the insects both winged and  wingless herein described has been chiefly drawn from  Knights Library of Entertaining Knowledge and  Woods delightful Homes without Hands  As for the two human specimens in the story the  selfish and the unselfish the boy who cared for his own  pleasure only the other who eared for the comfort of  others they may be found in thousands of homes in our  land they especially the first are common enough  in Britain however rare fairies may be If some  spoilt little master have received this small volume  amongst other Christmas or New Year presents I hope  that he may have patience to read it to the end and  before he closes the book consider whether he would  wish to pass all his days on a nettleleaf of selfishness  or whether he would not rather by his deeds his  words and his example show that he has undergone  a nobler change than that which transforms the creeping  caterpillar into a creature of light and beauty  A L O E  I  THE FAIRYS VISIT  9  XI  PAIBY CONVBRSK  17  UI  INTO THE WOODS  80  IV  THE ANTHILL  38  V  AMAZONS  49  VI  THE fairys 0PER  68  VIL  FOlLAOINOANTS  65  vnL  FEISKET EXPLORING  77  nt  THE BRUSH AND THE WAND  85  X  INSIDE THE CITY  94  XI  THE ANTLION  102  XIL  blaOk spots  107  xm  THE doctors visit  119  xlv  ID BE A BUTTERFLY  126  XV  BUTTERFLIES MEETING  139  XVI  ADVENTURES OF A CATERPILLAR  163  xvn  BORERS WEAVERS AND LEAFROLLERS  160  XVIII  THE LIFE OP A BUTTERFLY  106  XIX  A FRIEND IN NEED  176  XX  THE fairys MISTAKE  188  FAIRY FRISKET  CHAPTER I  THE fairys visit  ARAH careless Sarah theres not a doubt of the  fact you quite forgot to shut the window of  Squire Philimores study last evening and to  close the shutters and put up the bar and  anybody that might take a fancy to get into  the house could do so with ease The squire is fast  asleep in his big bed dreaming of hounds and hunting  and Master Philibert fast asleep in his little bed and  all the servants in their different rooms and so sound  is their slumber that they would not awake if any one  were to rattle a drum in the study  But that which comes in through the open window  into the study causes no noise at least none that the  sharpest ear would hear First there comes the soft  nightbreeze stealing very gently so gently that it  does not make even the papers on the table rustle and  scarcely swells the curtain at all Then there comes the  beautiful moonlight laying along the floor what looks  like a strip of silver carpet with the shadow of the  latticed windowbars forming the pattern upon it And  there is something besides this something softer than  the breeze and fairer even than the moonlight A  pretty little fairy is perched on the windowsill looking  into the room She is scarcely more than five inches in  height so small that she might lie at full length in a  ladys silken slipper and find it a comfortable sofa and  a girl might wear as a ring the slender gold belt which  girdles the waist of the fairy A wreath of tiniest  heatherbells encircles her hair if that can be called  hair which is so fine that it hangs over the fairys  shoulders like a golden mist which the puff of a childs  breath could set floating upon the air The little ladys  dress is formed of petals of the blushrose fashioned by  fairy fingers with a light robe of gossamer over it such  as lies on the grass on summer mornings all fringed  with diamond dewdrops A violet would be large  enough to cover the print of the fairys footstep if that  tiny white foot ever left which it does not the lightest  trace behind The wings that spread at the fairys back  are such as the dragonfly wears they are transparent  as glass and as they quiver in the silvery rays appear  to be tinted with every hue in the rainbow The light  which comes streaming in behind the fairy throws no  shadow of her figure upon the sill she seems herself as  light as the moonbeams The wand in her tiny hand  golden at one end green at the other is not much thicker  than a horsehair and the bag which hangs from the  fairys girdle looks exactly like one of the violetvelvet  petals of a heart sease sprinkled over with golddust  In short Fairy Frisket as she stands in the moonshine  peering curiously into the halfdark study is as lovely an  object to look on as any mortal could wish to behold  This must be the place that I heard of but oh  what a den for a fairy to hide in cried Frisket in a  voice high and shrill as the chirp of a cricket but sweet  as the nightbirds song Knowabit Knowabit  show a bit show a bit After four hundred years spent  apart let brother and sister meet once again 1  And at the silvery call up sprang from a large red  edged volume which lay on the ledge of a bookcase a  tiny form being that of a bearded fairy dressed in cap  and gown as a student and with a minute pair of gold  spectacles resting upon his small nose Some of my  readers may already have been introduced to the learned  fay Knowabit and have heard of his doings at Fairy  dell Hall where he had lived amongst books and papers  ever since the invention of printing  No sooner did Knowabit catch sight of Frisket than  with an exclamation of pleasure he made a bound like  a cricket towards her while she flew like a butterfly  towards him and the brother and sister embraced in  the air as fondly as brother and sister should do whirling  round and round in their joy at meeting as two feathers  might whirl round in a gale Then they alighted on  the squires silver inkstand which stood in the middle  of his table and gazed upon one another to see if ages  had wrought any change upon either  Four or five hundred years is of course no great  length of time to a fairy and yet it was clear from  Friskets face that she did see a change in her brother  and a change that did not please her at all With  manner rather too brusque for a lady to say nothing of  a fairy Frisket suddenly cried Whats this darted  at Knowabit s spectacles and pulled them ofi from his  nose She then held them between her finger and  thumb and looked at them as you dear reader might  look at a slug if found in your teacup  Whats this repeated Frisket and what can  possibly be its use   These are my spectacles sister and I use them to  read books with replied Knowabit with dignity as  he pointed towards the wellfilled shelves of the squires  library   Books repeated Frisket scornfully Rusty  fusty musty dusty Better far that you should throw  away these spectacles as you call them and that odd  dress with which I suppose you are mimicking man  Why I do believe that youve crushed down your wings  under that black gown When was black ever worn  before by a fairy   I confess replied Knowabit mildly that I have  adopted some of the ways of mankind I suppose from  living hundreds of years under a roof I have had so little  use for my wings that I have not spread them since the  death of Queen Bess and scarcely remember that I  possess them I can bound very well from place to  place without them   Ay in a tootyi exclaimed Frisket with scorn   You choose spectacles instead of free wings books  instead of leaves and mosses and ferns and flowers  You like to hear the mouse squeaking behind the old  wainscot instead of the lark singing in the air   You would rather have me sing said Knowabit  breaking out into song   Where the bee sucks there lurk I  In a cowslips bell I lie  There I couch when owls do cry  On a bats back do I fly  After sunset merrily  Merrily merrily shall I live now  Under the blossom that hangs on the bough   Yes said Frisket more quietly that is a true  fairy song   Yet it was written by a man observed Knowarbit   Ay look as much surprised as you please but it was  certainly written by old Will Shakespeare whose bust  you see there at the top of the bookcase   How could a man a son of earth a beefeating crea  ture know anything about fairies cried Frisket   And what does a fairy a child of air a dewsipping  creature know about men asked Knowabit smiling   Has my fair sister ever so much as heard the voice of  one of the race   I know enough of them to dislike them cried  Frisket and I dont care to know anything more   Sister sister is not that prejudice Is not that  judging without knowledge Suppose that instead of  quivering your wings so scornfully and looking as if  you thought the squires mahogany table scarcely fit to  set your little foot upon you were to give back to me  my glasses and we two were to take our seats on this  silver inkstand and talk over the matter quietly to  gether Would not that be better than disputing on  the first night of our meeting Perhaps you may find  that the human race with all its faults is not to be  despised even by a fairy  Frisket could not help looking up to her brother I  do not mean because he was much taller than herself  by at least the breadth of a mans thumb but because  he had a calmer judgment a more thoughtful mind  Knowabit had learned a good deal from his favourite  books and had perhaps made as good use of his spectacles  as Frisket had of her wings The ladyfairy closed those  glassy wings which folded neatly behind her back  restored the tiny spectacles to their owner and sat down  as her brother had proposed upon the silver top of one  of Squire Philiraores inkbottles while Knowabit rested  on the other the box to hold stamps being between  them The two fairies looked like ornamental figmes of  Wisdom and Mirth adorning the inkstand but Wisdom  was smiling and Mirth had somethiig of thought on her  bright little face The squires comfortable study seemed  like a prison to Fairy Frisket and it is scarcely to be  wondered at that she felt the top of the inkbottle a far  less agreeable seat than a clump of green moss or a  downlined nest or the petals of a fragrant mossrose  CHAPTER 11  FAIRY CONVERSE  fRISKET And now tell me Brother Fay what  you can find in men or their works so charm  ing as to make you desert the green woods  What joy can there be in this dull den with  its dusty piles of books to compare with that  of tripping it over the grass rocking in the breeze on a  trembling aspen or watching the bees plundering the  flowers of golden pollen the spider spinning her silver  thread or the butterfly basking her wings in the sun  shine  Knowahit I might say that I learn much from  these books of the wonders of Nature in other lands  where the butterflies wings are brighter and the flowers  fairer than here in Old England But I will own to  you Sister Fay that I take pleasure in learning some  thing of the ways and doings and in studying the char  acters of human beings men and boys  Fiket Huge heavy gluttonous creatures that  actually prey upon sheep and oxen and kill them for  food How honid  Kumvabit Do not look so much shocked at the  idea I do not see that it is worse in men to kill sheep  and oxen for food than it is for your friends the spiders  to kill flies The bigger creature needs the bigger prey  and feeds according to its nature Philibert Philimore  the squires fat boy cannot dine as you might on a  drop of sweet juice The scent of the sweetest violets  will not supply him with flesh blood and bones He  would starve upon dew and as for making a breakfast  upon pollen I should like to see his face if such a thing  were proposed  Frisket Yes From what I hear these wretched  human beings are full of all kinds of wants A leafy  bough is a home for me I can feast on the honey in a  flower and then make me a robe of its petals If I  choose to fly higher than my wings will bear me I perch  on the back of a lark and enjoy its music as well as my  ride as I mount up into the sky If it rain I can  shelter me under a mushroom and if I require a light  on a starless night every glowworm is pleased to lend  me his pretty green lamp But mortals cannot be con  tented with pleasures so simple as these They cannot  sleep without a huge house above them nor dress nor  eat nor move from one place to another without such  worry and scurry such scanning and planning such  moiling and toiling as seems terrible to a fairy  KnowOrbit Man is indeed a frail creature full as  you say of all kinds of wants But there is to me  something grand in that wonderful gift of reason which  enables him to supply every one of these wants  Frisket Man cannot fly like a bird nor run like a  hare and if he dare venture into the water at all the  tiniest fish in the brook can excel him in diving and  swimming  KnowOrbit And yet observe how man makes up by  the powers of his mind for all his imperfections of body  He cannot fly indeed for Nature has not supplied him  with wings j but if he choose to mount above the clouds  he forms a huge ball which he calls a balloon and darts  up higher than eagle can fly He has no fins hke a fish  to swim with but man gets wood to float and iron to  swim and fire and water to work his will and his ships  in a long race round the globe would beat any fish in  the ocean If man takes a fancy to dive he dives in a  bell as he cannot hve without air he cleverly carries  down air to the very bottom of the sea Man needs  food of all sorts and he gets all sorts The leaf from  this land and the berry from that the birds and the  beasts the insects and fish he makes all supply his  table Man requires clothing and finds it on all sides  he takes the wool of the sheep the hair of the goat the  fur of the rabbit the skin of the mole the feather of the  ostrich the silk of the worm all he prepares with  wonderful skill to make his curious garments Nor is  this suflScient for man England is not warm enough  for the gTowth of cotton a white down held in the  LEAVES TXOWER AND FRUIT OF THE COTTON PLANT  seedvessel of a yellow flower Hills of this down are  brought in shiploads from fardistant lands in the East  and the West and in a single year enough of it is woven  ill England to cover if needed half the county of York  shire with its towns and churches its fields and farms  and much more than half a million of people Truly man  is a wondrous creature and reason is a marvellous gift  Frisket But man is full of faults as well as of wants  Sad stories of his wicked doings have reached even the  fairies Though the least scratch upon his skin gives  him pain it seems to be his delight to give pain Man  flogs his horses he beats his dogs he hunts the hare he  shoots the bird and even boys horrible to tell will  rob the poor linnets nest and torment the beautiful  winged insects that fall into their merciless hands  Knowahit I fear that this alas is too true I  often wonder how those who so easily suffer themselves  can bear to make innocent creatures suffer But if I re  member rightly fair sister even you yourself carry in your  bag a little brush fashioned of waspstings a touch from  which would make any boy in England start and wince  Frisket I certainly own such a brush but I never  wantonly use my weapon No fairy would ever be  cruel I do but keep the saucy hornets at bay when  they come buzzing about me and I warn off the great  elephantbeetles when they poke their rude horns into  my leafy bower  KnoiVOrhit You remind me of the song   You spotted BTiakea with double tongue  Thorny hedgehogs be not seen  Newts and blindworms do no wrong  Come not near our fairyqueen  Philomel with melody  Singing her sweet lullfiby  Never harm nor spell nor charm  Come our lovely lady nigh  So goodnight with lullaby  Weaving spiders come not near  Hence you longlegged spinners hence  Beetles black approach not near  Worm nor snail do no offence  Philomel with melody c  Theres Will Shakespeares poetry for you again 1  FriaJcet Were it not for that bust up yonder I should  say that Will Shakespeare as you call him must have  been a fair himself  Knowabit laughing You would not have thought  so had you seen him as I did more than two hundred  and seventy years ago in the days of Queen Bess when  he came to this very house on a visit Shakespeare was  a man with a large forehead and a bright keen eye and  a mind brimming over with wit Nothing of a fairy  was he Will Shakespeare was a muttoneating and a  beefeating and a beerdrinking creature there could  be no mistake about that He used to write in this  very room some of the works wliich fill half the laige  l30oks on yon shelf while I sat on his shoulder watching  his pen for his fairywand was a goosequill  Fiket He must have been one whom even fames  would have liked to see I suspect brother Knowabit  that you whispered those fairy songs into his ear  KnowOrbit No they were all Shakespeares own  every word I had not then found out the spell which  has cost me hundreds of years of study by which I can  make myself visible and my voice audible at pleasure  to any of the race of mankind  Frisket Is that a secret which I may know  Knowahit The secret lies in this little tassel which  hangs as you see from my cap When I pull it thus  I can be seen and heard by whomsoever I will I be  lieve that I am the first fairy who ever possessed such  a charm  Fiisket Had I such a chaim I never would use it  I might indeed like to examine man s curious works  and peep into his amusing books that is if I could  take the trouble of learning the ait of reading but  with man himself I should not care to have anything  to do  Knoiuabit Now it seems to me that man is a more  curious and interesting study than any of his works or  any of his writings There is such wonderful difference  between human beings such strange variety in their  characters and their conduct For instance there are  two boys now asleep under this roof Philibert Philimore  the son of the squire and Sydney Pierce his young  guest Never were two beings less alike though both  feed upon mutton and beef The first is always thinking  of self the second always thinking of others The one  is discontented in the midst of luxury the other pleased  with whatever he gets Philibert is illtempered and  peevish while I never yet have heard Sydney utter so  much as a hasty word  FHslcet You surprise me brother Knowablt I  thought that all human beings were inclined to do and  to speak what is wrong that their very nature is to  fall into folly and error just as it is the nature of their  poor weak bodies to fall down if not supported as it is  their nature to need food and sleep and after a little  while to die  Knowahit But just as man seems bom to struggle  against the bodily weakness of his nature to make up  by his wondrous inventions for the want of wings and  fins and claws the lions strength and the deers swift  ness so in some of the race there seems to be a constant  struggle and victory over self There is to me something  very grand and very glorious about such a struggle  Frisket I do not understand what you mean I sup  pose because I am a fairy and have never any trouble  at all  Knowabit I will explain by means of examples  A poor man named Garland who lives at no great dis  tance from Fairydell Hall saw some months since an  idiot boy drowning in a stream Garland plunged in at  once to rescue the child he risked shortening his own  little term of life in ordr to save one who had not even  the power to thank him Here was a struggle and a  victory over cowardly self Garland caught then a  terrible cold on his chest and suffered as mortals only  can suffer He lost his strength for work by day he  lost his rest by night he lost the power to gain bread  for his wife and six children and yet this poor sufferer  never lost his temper never as I have heard uttered  one word of complaint Here was a struggle and a  victory over impatient self Man is a grand being when  he forces earth air water and fire to obey his will and  do his bidding but he is a nobler creature by far when  mastering fear and temper and pain conquering self  rising above his own weakness bearing what nature will  not willingly bear doing what nature will not will  ingly do  Frisket Did not his fellowmortals help Garland as  he had helped the drowning child  KnoWObit Hear the end of my story Frisket The  two boys Philibert and Sydney had each one piece of  yellow gold Now the human race have a curious power  of turning silver and gold into all kinds of things which  they fericy even huge things like cows or even houses  FHsket Whats that whats that you amaze me  Men must have very wonderful wands  Knowahit smiling Men do not make these changes  by the touch of a wand like fairies but by a very  commonplace arrangement which they call buying a  thing never known in fairyland nor amongst any crea  tures except those that are human But to return to my  story Philibert Philimore turned his bit of gold into  toys and sweets for himself Sydney Pierce turned his  bit of gold into comforts for poor Will Garland Sweets  and toys would have been as pleasant to Sydney as they  were to his young companion but the boy like the  man whom he helped had a struggle and victory over self  When I see selfdenial like this selfdenial which we  children of air never can practise mortals shortlived  weak subject to pain and ready to fall as they are seem  to me to be grander nobler happier beings than fairies  Finsket I should like to reward that Sydney I  should like to stir his cup and touch his eyelids with  the end of my wand for  The gilded rod of fairy wood  Gives sweetest taste to oommon food  Makes everything look fair and good  Knowabit You would need to be careful which end  of your wand you used for if I remember rightly fair  sister the green end has a very different effect  Frisket  It gives to food a bitter taste  Makes things look crooked and misplaced  And where it touches spots are traced  Laughing Perhaps Master Philibeit Philimore may one  day have a little rap from that end of my wand or a  touch from my tiny stingbrush to improve his manners  KnoWdhit What does Frisket then think of leav  ing her darling green woods to give as I do lessons to  mortals in a dwelling  Frisket Lessons you never told me that these two  boys had you for their fairyteacher  Knowdbit Philibert and Sydney come each mom  into this study and through the power of my wand I  show them many a wondrous sight in a fairymirror  Flasket Why in this dull close study Why not  in the free green woods Why not take them into the  nest of the bird on the bough the cave of the mole under  giound Why not show them the wonders of Nature  in Natures own quiet retreats  Knowahit That is to me quite a new idea but I  see a little difficulty in carrying it out These boys are  hampered with bodies a great deal too heavy and a great  deal too large to mount into nests and to dive into holes  to creep where a caterpillar creeps or to soar where a  butterfly soars  Frislcet Oh those huge heavy meatfed bodies would  be much in the way I own but I know a remedy for the  difficulty Pulls out of her bag a little box about the  size of a mustard seed This is a box of fancy pomatum  the newest invention in fairyland The tiniest particle  rubbed on the temples gives the mind power for one  single hour to inhabit the body of any creature recently  killed to understand its language and to enter its home  Through the charm of that fancy pomatum the boys  whom you love to teach may buzz through a hive as  bees or roam through underground passages as ants or  bury themselves like beetles or fly through the air as  gnats This is a gift and a choice gift it is from  fairy sister to fairy brother on their first meeting after  a separation of four hundred years  KnowOrhit I am surprised and delighted with your  curious gift but what can I offer in return Accept  the tassel from my cap which will give you the power  to appear and to speak when you will to mortals  Ftisket Nay I cannot rob you of that which has  cost you ages of study to form  Knowabit All the difficulty was to discover how  to form the charm I cari multiply the tassels at my  pleasure and have another at the top of yon bookcase  hidden in the ear of Shakespeares bust  Frisket Such being the case I gladly accept your  gift dear brother though little likely ever to use it I  intend to see these two boys Philibert and Sydney but  never to let them see me I intend to listen to their  words but never to let them listen to mine If I stir  their cups they shall never know what makes the con  tents seem bitter or sweei If I touch their eyelids  they never shall guess what makes aU things bright  with fairy beauty or ugly crooked and dark I will  acquaint myself with mortals but mortals shall not  make acquaintance with me I want to know more of  these strange beings so strong in their weakness in  their power of selfconquering so great whose little life  seems to be a struggle against want pain sorrow and  evil but who when they rise triumphant above all are  greater and nobler than creatures like us who have  nothing but ease and enjoyment  CHAPTER III  INTO THE WOODS  I T was of course a great pleasure to Knowabit  to meet again with his faiiy sister and seeing  Frisket revived his love for the greenwood in   which he had sported in olden times dancing  under the beechtrees by moonlight It was not  difficult therefore for Frisket to persuade her brother to  leave for awhile his study and his books and to wander  with her in the free air with nothing between them and  the glorious stars  But really brother before we start we must look  after your wings cried Frisket How funny you  appear in that black robe of yours which I am sure that  you must have dyed in the squires inkbottle You are  hardly fit to be seen amongst fairies Allow me to  examine your shoulders perhaps a little slit in your  dress would let out your wings Ah here they are  sure enough Ive in my bag the jaw of a rosecutter  bee which I use for slitting and shaping the petals  which I sew up again with silk from the web of the  spider Almost before Knowabit was aware of what  his sister was about she had cut two long holes in the  back of his dress  Ah that looks a little more fairylike exclaimed  Frisket when with tiny fingers which could hardly have  spanned a filbert she had pulled out one after the other  two wings glossy like her own but not nearly so bright  nor so ready to quiver and glance Indeed if I may  venture to say it they looked crumpled like a ladys  dress that has been untidily folded and then left in a  drawer for years Give them a shake a good hearty  shake exclaimed Frisket they are none the brighter  or the better for not having been used since the days of  Queen Bess   Yes it is a curious fact observed the philosopher  Knowabit that all creatures are apt to lose any  faculty which they suffer for long to lie idle Now that  I am going abroad I must rub up the art of flying or  he added laughing I may have to take like mortals  to a coach or a railwaycarriage at last  Knowabit had not yet lost the use of his wirigs  though they felt at first wonderfully stiff He had to  fly two or three times round the study to get them into  good play before attempting a longer excursion In the  meantime Frisket replaced in her violet bag the sharp  jaw of the rosecutter bee which was to the fairy what  a pair of scissors is to a lady and then fastened to her  girdle the curious tassel which had been the gift of her  brother   Now I am all ready for a start V cried Knowabit  flying down from Shakespeares bust where he had rested  for a second or two upon the broad bald forehead of the  poet after pulling the second tassel out of its hiding  place in his ear   Just pull off your spectacles then ciied Frisket   spectacles look as odd on the nose of a faiiy as they  would on the beak of a sparrow  So Knowabit popped his tiny gold spectacles into a  little pocket which he had in his dress and merrily  enough the two fairies flew away through the open  yindow towards the leafy woods which surrounded the  IlaU  A great disappointment was in store for Philibert and  his young guest when they came as usual into the study  on the following morning to meet their fairy friend and  see the wonders worked by his wand Philibert in his  blue velvet dress strutted in first followed by Sydney  in his plain brown stuff one the squires son impatient  for amusement the widows son eager for knowledge  Philibert went up straight to the large rededged  volume in which Knowabit for many years had dwelt  and gave three taps upon it with his fat knuckles as we  rap with the knocker upon a door to ask Is any one at  home Philibert expected the learned fairy to answer  his knock but never a fairy saw he   Why Sydney what ever has become of Knowabit  exclaimed the boy in vexation Try if you can manage  to make the lazy little fellow come out  PHILIBERT AND THK BOOK  Sydney thrice gently tapped the big book but Kjiow  abit was not to be seen  Ill make him attend cried Philibert ready to  stamp with impatience He slapped the book he banged  the book he snatched it up and shook it and then with  a burst of illtemper threw it down on the floor Sydney  quietly picked it up and smoothed the leaves doubled  up by the fall  I am afraid that our kind fairy is tired of us  observed Sydney  Then Im sure that Im tired of the fairy cried  Philibert who like many other selfish people let the  first pause in the kindness of a friend take away all  gratitude for past favours  Sydney was perhaps more disappointed than was  Philibert Philimore for young Pierce had been eager to  question Knowabit on some subjects in natural history   a study of which the boy was exceedingly fond  However Sydney knew that it would be foolish to fret  and wrong to be angry so he only observed as he re  placed the volume on the ledge of the bookcase Per  haps we are meant to find out that though we cannot  have a fairy any longer to teach us we may get a fairys  knowledge out of a book and we may prize the know  ledge all the more if it cost us a little trouble   I hate trouble and I cant bear reading cried lazy  Philibert If this tiresome fairy has taken himself off  he might have been civil enough to have given us notice  yesterday wed better go into the wood and amuse our  selves there till Mary has got breakfast ready Lets  see how the workmen are getting on with papas fine  new summerhouse under the oak  INTO THE WOODS 35  What a delightful old house this is exclaimed  Sydney as the two boys sauntered out together Your  father was telling me yesterday that part of it the part  where the study is was built before the Wars of the  Roses only think what a long time ago The squire  said that Fairjdell Hall has stood so long because in  troublous times walls were made so thick and strong in  case of attack In these days he told me the moat  round the house was full of water not of grass and  shrubs as it is now and there was a bridge over it  that could be drawn up by pulleys so that no one could  pass over the moat without the leave of the master of  Fairydell Hall How strange it must have been to have  lived in those rough old days   They wouldnt have done for you said Philibert  Philimore you are such a weak little chap youd  have been no use in defending a castle Strong jolly  fellows were wanted then not those that needed coddling  and stuffing with codliver oil  Sydney felt the words of his companion to be incon  siderate if not unkind It was no fault of young  Pierces that his health was delicate and his strength  small He had seen enough of the squires fat little  son to know that though Philibert might be far the  stronger of the two if it came to a question of courage  the weaker frame might hold the firmer spirit Sydney  however said nothing in reply but amused himself  with looking up at the strong gateway with the red msl  stain on the stone marking where the portcullis had hung  The portcullis was an iron grating which could be let  down suddenly to stop the entrance of a foe The port  cullis itself like the movable bridge over the moat was  gone now that there was no longer fear of danger a  firm broad bridge had replaced the one and all that re  mained to tell of the other was the rustmark and the  holes in the stone where the iron supports had been  fixed It amused Sydney however in fancy to recall  the past as he glanced up at the massive gateway and  the slits in the wall through which archers sent forth  their arrows against unwelcome intruders long before  guns had been invented   And then to think of Shakespeare himself having  passed under this very arch exclaimed Sydney Ive  thought this noble old place twice as interesting since  hearing of his having paid it a visit   I daresay that youve never read a line out of those  big books with his name on the back of them observed  Philibert as the two boys went on their way down the  green velvety slope which led into the wood   My mother has read to me bits out of Shakespeare   beautiful bits about Mercy being twice blessed and  about vaulting Ambition that oerleaps himself and  falls on tother side And oh now that were amongst  these splendid old trees with their trunks all knotted  and gnarled and the green moss over their great strag  gling roots it seems just the place to sing Shakespeares  song perhaps he made it just here And the joyous  ness of Sydneys heart broke out into music   Under the greenwood tree  Who loves to lie with me  And tune his merry throat  Unto the sweet birds note  Come hither come hither  Here shall he see  No enemy  But winter and rough weather  CHAPTER IV  THE ANTHILL  OME on Sydney will you what are you stop  ping to stare at cried Philibert Philimore   An anthill Oh how curious it is to  look at the little hillock all alive with busy  creatures How they swaim and how active  and lively they are Theres one ant dragging a great  bit of twig I mean great for so tiny a creature to  manage and he cant manage it poor little fellow  Hell leave it hell give up the task No no just  see he has gone up to another ant hes tapping him  with his feelers I daresay thats his way of saying   Please old boy come and help me Oh what fun  there they both are at the twig a long pull and a strong  pull and a pull all together Well done little ants  well done I am sure you work with a will   Horrid ugly little brutes I cant think how you  are so stupid as to care to watch them cried Phili  bert Im sure theres nothing worth seeing in an  anthilL  That is the eonclusion of ignoiance said a bird  like voice from the branch of an old oak which spread  over the green woodland path Philibert and Sydney  both started and looked upwards and whom should  they see seated upon a twig but their learned friend  Knowabit the fairy He looked much as he had done  when the boys had last met him in the study except  that his spectacles had disappeared and that a pair of  long dragonfly wings were folded behind him Sydney  was SO glad to see his fairy again that he uttered an  exclamation of joy   Man continued the fairy is proud of his fine build  ings his grand works of art the houses which he raises  by the help of numberless tools the hammer saw  trowel and axe the crane and the pulley the lever and  the wheel Those little insects which you have the  folly to scorn with no tools but those with which nature  supplies them scoop out long passages and deep tunnels  and raise buildings story upon story buildings which  are far more wonderful and grand in proportion to the  size of the little workers than St Pauls or Westminster  Abbey or the great Egyptian Pyramid itself  You dont mean that wretched anthill cried Phili  bert   I more especially speak of the labours of the white  ant or termite an insect related to the dragonflies and  mayflies rather than to the rustybrown little workers  before you In Africa these builders raise nests that are  sometimes twenty feet in height and so strong that the  wild bull can stand on the top to look out if danger be  near   What a famous anthill that must be exclaimed  Philibert why this little heap of twigs and withered  grass would not support a cat   Pray Mr Fairy tell us more of these curious white  ants and their habits said Sydney   The gigantic nests of these termites observed  Knowabit are each like a populous city with its  palacecell for king and queen in the middle and rooms  round it for their guards and attendants who are always  in waiting These rooms are joined to magazines formed  to hold provisions which look like raspings of wood and  plants but which principally consist of gums and sugar  Near these are the nurseries   Nurseries 1 intenupted Philibert what kind of  creatures are babyants do they wear bibs or pina  fores  Not exactly replied the fairy Ants first ap  pear in the shape of tiny eggs of which there will some  times be as many as eighty thousand in an anthill  From these eggs come little white pupae which are care  fully tended or educated as we may call it by nursing  ants until they are able to take care of themselves   These are the boys and girls of the antcity I sup  pose said Sydney But what are the king and  queen like Do they wear splendid colours to show  their rank   They are rather distinguished by size than by colour  answered the fairy The king of the termites is about  twice as large as one of his soldiers and ten times as  large as a labouring ant   How funny it would be if there were such difier  ences between human beings cried Philibert if  King George haxi been twice as big as the Duke of Wel  lington and ten times as big as his gardener   He would have been a great king indeed observed  Sydney and both boys burst into a merry laugh   Size is not the kings only distinction continued  the fairy in his perfect state he has four laige brown  ish transparent wings but they adorn his majesty for  but a few hours   We may call them his robes of state observed Syd  ney which he has very soon to put off   To die added the fairy   I suppose that the queen whiteant is not nearly so  big as the king as she is the lady said PhUibert   Nay there you are greatly mistaken said the fairy   In the hill of the termites as in the hive of the bee the  queen the great mother is by far the most important  person in the state and the whiteant queen at one  period of her life is of size quite enormous compared to  her subjects She is thousands of times as big as one  of the labouring ants and so large that it is quite im  possible for her to get through the doorway of the cell  which she had entered when comparatively small so  that her palace is also her prison The queen like the  king has for a short period wings or robes of state  as we call them but this is before her great increase  in size   You mentioned soldiers Mr Fairy said Sydney   pray do the king and queen of these termites keep a  standing army of ants   A regular standing army of warriors of about the  size of earwigs who have nothing to do but  to fight Their weapons are powerful jaws  protruding from very large heads and with  these they can inflict very severe bitea If  part of the wall of their city be broken down  out rush the bold soldiers to defend the breach  ready to attack any invader while the la  bourers who have no fancy for fighting take refuge  within   Like the women keeping safe in a castle while the  men are defending the walls observed Sydney   So stanch is th courage of the soldiers said  Knowabit that sooner than quit their  hold on an enemy they will suffer them  selves to be pulled limb from limb   Well done little heroes cried Sydney   When the fight is over continued the  fairy the soldiers leave to the labourers  all the trouble of repairing the walls as  they had done that of building them No  soldier termite will deign to lift a burden nor so much  as look after one of the babyants   Then I should say that except in time of war these  big soldiers are useless fellows observed Philibert   Therefore in the beautiful arrangement of nature  an anthill contains but one soldier to qbout a hundred  workers said Knowabit   I dont think that we have sa much as one soldier  to a hundred other people remarked Sydney   These termites are very curious creatures but I sup  pose that they are very useless ones said Philiberi   They are of exactly the same kind of use to the  Africans as your father s pheasants and hares are to  you   You dont mean to say that any one eats them  cried the fat little boy with a look of disgust Id  rather starve than dine upon ants 1   Whiteants are not only eaten but they are con  sidered by the Africans a delicate dainty said Knowa  bit They have been compared in taste to sugared  marrow also to sweetened cream and paste made of  almonds  Philibert opened his eyes very wide on hearing this  and began to think that a dish of termites might be no  such bad thing after all  CHAPTER V  AMAZONS   RE there many other kinds of curious ants  inquired Sydney   There is a great variety of ants both  foreign and British answered the fairy   We have the dusky the brown the yel  low and the woodant on which you are looking now  and which is commonly called the pismire But in  other parts of the world are found many other remaik  able species amongst them the amazonants which have  the curious distinction of being a kind that capture and  keep black slaves   Oh the naughty cruel little creatures 1 exclaimed  Sydney who had a vivid recollection of what he had  heard from his mother of the horrors of the slavetrade  as practised by men  Insects can scarcely be called naughty or cruel  observed the fairy when acting according to the in  stinct which Nature has planted within them  Piay let us hear something about these amazons  and their slavecatching said Philibert Philimore Did  you ever see them about it   No for I have never myself been out of England  Knowabit replied my wings fairy wings though  they be will not carry me so far as railways and  steamers will carry human beings   You might ask some traveller to pack you up in his  hatbox said Philibert  Sydney observed that the little fairy looked rather  angry at such an impertinent joke and turned the con  versation by saying I suppose that these amazonants  live near the Amazon river the biggest river in the  world which flows in South America   No replied Fairy Knowabit The amazonants  are nearer neighbours they are found on the continent  of Europe though not I believe in this island A great  naturalist called Huber had the opportunity of watch  ing an army of amazons or as he calls them legionary  ants near the Lake of Geneva in the country of Switzer  land on a slavecapturing expedition  And what did he see asked Philibert  Between the hours of four and five on the after  noon of a summer s day Huber saw a column of large  ironbrown coloured ants going at a pretty rapid pace  along a road This column of ants covered a space about  eight or ten inches in length by three or four in breadth   Then there must have been more than a dozen anta  abreast observed Philibert but I suppose that they  did not move all in order like soldiers right foot and  left foot together   Pray go on Mr Knowabit said Sydney   In a few minutes Huber saw the column leave the  road pass a thick hedge and enter a meadow Full of  curiosity to know whither they were bound the natural  ist followed to watch them There was the column of  disciplined insects making its way through the grass  without straggling going steadily on like an army of  men under a human general till it came near a nest of  the negroant which was at the distance of about twenty  feet from the hedge   And how did the negroants receive the invaders   did they show fight asked Philibert Philimore   Some of the negroes were guarding the entrance of  their nest and on discovering the advancing foe dashed  bravely forward to repel them The alarm that an enemy  was coming to attack them soon spread amongst the  negroes more and more of the gallant little ants rushed  out to defend their home then a fierce fight ensued   Oh poor little negroes I hope that they had the  best of it exclaimed Sydney   If Id been there Id have stamped my foot on the  amazonants and killed the whole army at once cried  Philibert  Knowabit smiled at the foolish boast The squires  son would have been afraid of a single wasp and was  little likely to attack a whole column of fiercebiting  amazonants   After a short conflict continued the fairy the  negroes fled to their underground galleries leaving the  amazons masters of the field The invaders now began  making openings for themselves into the anthill and  Huber soon saw the amazons swarming in where he had  no power to follow them In two or three minutes  however they reappeared out of the nest each amazon  carrying a grub or baby negroant and having obtained  what they wanted they returned the same way that  they had come only not in the same regular marching  order   And the poor negroes had been robbed of all their  babies cried Sydney   Not of all of them said the fairy Huber after  watching for some time the homeward march of the  amazons returned to the anthill which they had plun  dered and near it saw a few of the defeated negroes  perched upon the stalks of plants and holding in their  mouths some grubs that had escaped the general pillage   Im glad of that said the kindhearted Sydney   But what did the amazons do with the babyants that  they had carried ofi asked Philibert Did they  make a grand feast and gobble them up   Oh no You forget that the expedition was to  capture slaves not to procure food answered the fairy   Huber was curious like yourself to know the fate of  the little prisoners He found out the nest of the  amazonants and took his post near it to watch what  would happen on the conquerors return to their home  He was much surprised to see a nuner of negroants  come out of the amazons nest to meet the victors not  as enemies to fight them but like affectionate servants  or friends These negroes caressed the amazons offered  them food and then received from them the little pupae  or grubs of which they took charge doubtless in order  to bring them up as if they were their own offspring   How funny how very funny cried Philibert   Of course these negroants must have been caught and  carried off when they were babies themselves but had  quite forgotten or forgiven the attack upon their old  home   I suppose that the amazons treat their slaves well  observed Sydney Theyve no flogging and over  working in an anthill   The amazons and the negroants live in perfect har  mony together said Knowabit Indeed the ama  zons are quite dependent upon their servants and would  not know what to do without them for the warriors  appear to be no more fit to work for themselves than  are the soldierants of the termites Not only does all  the building work and the nursing of the pupae fall to  the share of the negroants but they even take the  trouble of feeding the amazons The busy little labourers  appear as much masters as servants in the nest and it  has been remarked will even refuse the amazons ad  mission into their own home if they come back unsuc  cessful from one of their plundering excursions  Do these amazons ever carry off grownup negro  ants inquired Sydney   Never are they seen to do so answered the fairy   The babyants only are taken and it is no hardship  whatever to them to be brought up in the amazons  nest   Oh how I wish that we had some of these curious  ants in England exclaimed Philibert it would be  such rare fun to watch them   We have not the amazons here observed Knowa  bit but these very woodants on the hillock at your  feet have been seen to eagerly carry off the pupae of  other ants   I should like to catch them at it cried Sydney   I never thought that common woodants were such  curious creatures   What will you say when I tell you that some ants  may almost be said to have their herds as well as their  servants said the fairy It is well known that ants  press from the aphides a kind of insect very common  upon our apple and oak trees a sweet juice which  nourishes them as human beings are nourished by the  milk of their cows The ants do not hurt the aphides  they gently stroke them with their feelers which are  called antennae and then drink the honeydew with  which those creatures are supplied   Wonders upon wonders cried Sydney   Ants are very fond of liquids continued the fairy   and are provided with little tongues with which they  are able to lap   I suppose said Sydney that the ants do not  keep herds they only catch a what do you call it  when they can find one   Nay replied Knowabit the clever Huber dis  covered that the common yellowant of our gardens keeps  the eggs of the aphis and guards them as carefully as if  they were her owa   Oh doesnt that look as if the ant knew that the  aphis would one day supply it with honeydew cried  Sydney   Huber continued the fairy found in the nest of  the yellowant a number of little eggs most of them  were black as ebony but some were of a clouded yellow  In vain the ants that Huber had disturbed tried to carry  off these eggs the human intruder seized upon both the  ants and their treasure and in order to watch them  more closely put them all into a corner of a box faced  with glass   And what did the yellowants do in their prison V  asked Philibert Philimore   They collected the eggs and placed them in a heap  as if they valued them  highly Part of the num  ber they put into some  earth which was in the  box others they stroked  seemed to lick and fre  quently canied about in  their mouths The ants  seemed to regard these eggs  APiiiDEs OR PLANTLicBL ih grcat affcctlon They  were not anteggs which are white but the eggs of  aphides   And what are the aphides like when these little  cows of the ants are full grown inquired Sydney   There are various kinds of aphides as there are  various kinds of ants said Knowabit The common  oak aphis you may see on this very leaf on which I am  resting my wand   What an ugly creature exclaimed Philibert as the  boys turned their eyes in the direction pointed out by  the fairy and beheld a very repulsivelooking brown  insect   If the ants were to hold a cattleshow observed  Sydney gaily no one would think much of the beauty  of their cows unless they consider it a beauty to have  such a long tail as this ugly aphis seems to have   What you mistake for a tail is a sucker observed  Knowabit which is bent under the body of the  insect and therefore appears behind it That sucker is  much the same to the aphis that the trunk is to the ele  phant Through this long proboscis it drinks up the  juices of the leaf upon which it is resting which juices  will undergo a wondrous change into the honeydew  with which it supplies the ants  CHAFIER VI  THE FAIRY S OFFER  5OW all the time during which Knowabit was  holding this long conversation with the boys  there was a listener whose presence Philibert and  Sydney never suspected though Fairy Frisket  had chosen for her seat the shoulder of the  squires young son covered as it was with thick blue  velvet almost as soft as moss Frisket was quite as much  amused as any of the party regarding as she did with  great curiosity those remarkable creatures called boys to  whom this was her first introduction Perhaps the fairys  feelings towards them were something like what their own  might have been on their first sight of a huge elephant  which they had found more sagacious and goodtempered  than they had expected such a monster to be Frisket  began to suspect that what her brother had said might be  true that she had indulged a foolish prejudice against  liuman beings and that her scorn of mankind had arisen  from her want of knowledge Whenever we are inclined  to despise any being we should try to discover whether  the feeling may not arise from mingled ignorance and  pride  Fairy Frisket was amused not only by watching the  boys but by hearing what her brother was relating Of  course she who had lived for hundreds of years in the  forest knew all about woodants and aphides and every  other creature save man that lived near her fairy haunts  but of foreign creatures Frisket really knew nothing  How was it to be expected that she should seeing that  she had never looked into a book Of lions tigers and  bears except of course the insects antlions tiger  moths and woollybears she never had heard in her life  An elephant would have amazed her The pretty little  fairy as she listened to her brother began to imagine  that pleasure might be found in learning even by a fay  and that the hundreds of years spent amongst the books  in the study by Knowabit might not have been lost  time after all  Only once had Frisket been displeased during the  course of the conversation to which she had listened  and that was when saucy Philibert had joked about  packing up her learned brother in a hatbox The in  dignant little fairy had popped her stingbrush out of  her bag with the intention of giving the plump white  ear which lay so conveniently close to her hand such a  tap with it as would have sent the saucy boy roaring  with paii all the way back to the Hall Sydneys ques  tion by diverting Friskets attention to amazonants  had saved his companion for a time at least from the  danger of which he was so little aware but the fairy  resolved that the saucy boy should not always escape so  easily but that she would tickle his ear or spot his  cheek or stir his tea with the green end of her wand if  ever she should catch him again speaking disrespectfully  of one of her race   All the strange things which you have told us Mr  Fairy said Sydney make me want so much to learn  more How curious it would be to know what is pass  ing in that little anthill at this moment   Would you like to enter it and look about you  asked Knowabit quickly feeling in his pocket for his  tiny pot of pomatum   Thats quite impossible answered the boy smiling  as he glanced down on the little brown hillock which it  would not have been difficult to have jumped over for  English ants build very much more humble homes than  the tennites of Africa   It is not impossible for mind to go where body can  not enter when fancy is powerful said the learned fay   If I but touch your temples with this curious pomatum  tomorrow morning for an hour after sunrise you and  your companion there if he wish it shall inhabit the  tiny bodies of ants and explore wherever ants can go  I am speaking of course of your minds and not of your  large heavy bodies   And what is to become of our poor bodies while our  minds are running about and amusing themselves thus  exclaimed the astonished Sydney while Philibert who  could scarcely yet even understand the strange offer of  the fairy stood staring at him with mouth and eyes wide  open with amazement   Your bodies will remain fast asleep on your beds  while your minds roam free as they so often do in your  dreams   I wont be an ant exclaimed Philibert suddenly  If Mary the nurse should see me in such a shape  running over my pillow shed squash me as sure as a  gun  This exclamation and the anxious alarmed look on  the face of the fat little boy made Knowabit fall into  such a violent fit of laughter that he shook the twig on  which he was seated and nearly knocked over the aphis  His laughter was echoed by Fairy Frisket though of  course the boys could not hear the tinkling sound of her  mirth as she had never yet pulled the tassel which had  been given to her by her brother   Dont be frightened my Mend said Knowabit as  soon as his laughter was over You shall find yourself  an ant in these woods and close to this anthill where no  monster in the shape of a nurse will be near to squash  you   But suppose we should never turn back again into  boys suggested Sydney shaking his head very gravely  as he looked down on the little rustybrown creatures  that were running about at his feet   No fairy spell lasts beyond an hour replied Know  abit At the end of sixty minutes you wiU find your  selves safe and sound in your beds Shall I touch you  with this continued the fairy holding out towards  Philibert the tiny pot of pomatum   I dont believe that you can turn me into an ant or  into anything else with that ridiculous little mustard  seed exclaimed Philibert  Out popped Fairy Friskets stingbrush but her  brother who saw the movement of her tiny hand made  a sign to her not to use it   I have given you already pretty convincing proofs  of my fairy power said Knowabit I make you the  offer but once more Shall I enable you by fancy to  enter an anthill in the shape of an ant  Do it if you can 1 cried Philibert Philimore with a  little laugh of defiance  Almost before the words had quitted his lips Know  abit with a few quivers of his wings had reached  the squires son and touched his temples with fancy  pomatum  O Philibert youre in for the adventure cried  Sydney   Then you shall be in for it too exclaimed Phili  bert again looking frightened If Im an ant you  shall be an ant Oh do pray do let your forehead be  touched The poor little boy was alarmed at the idea  of undergoing such a change all by himself he thought  that no adventure would be so terrible if but his com  panion would share in it  Sydney smiled but hesitated I should like to  consult my mother he said but she would think  me quite out of my wits if I asked her leave to turn  into a woodant   And you cant ask her leave cried Philibert you  know that you heard yesterday that she has been sud  denly called to Scotland to visit her sick brother O  Sydney dont leave me in the lurch it would be so  cowardly it would be so unkind  I should not like to be unkind to any one nor to  desert you said Sydney and yet this is such a very  strange very uncommon kind of affair  Do you doubt me asked Knowabit who had  again taken his perch on the twig have you child of  earth ever found me the child of air lead you into  danger or evil   No indeed replied Sydney frankly I have had  nothing but good from what you have taught me Touch  my forehead if you like Mr Fairy Philibert and I will  visit the little anthillock together  Lightly flew Knowabit towards the boy lightly he  touched his temples with the fancypomatum At this  moment the voice of Mary was heard calling aloud  through the wood Master Philibert Master Philibert  where are you will you never come in for your break  fast  CHAPTER VII  FORAGINGANTS  T was with mixed and very curious feelings that  the two boys at Fairydell Hall thought over  J the occurrences of the morning and the very  strange offer of Knowabit The first thing  which Philibert did on returning to the Hall  was to wash his forehead well with soap and water for  lie had sad misgivings as to the power of the fancy  pomatum though he had so saucily defied Knowabit to  turn him into an ant Notwithstanding this washing  Philibert did not fel easy in his mind and when after  breakfast he and Sydney were together alone in the  playroom with a look of trouble on his plump round  face thus Philibert addressed his companion   I say Sydney do you really think that that horrid  little conjuring fairy it was well that Frisket was not  resent to hear will really turn us both into pismires   I think that it will be as if we had a dream of being  ants and that in this odd kind of dream we shall enter  the anthill   But I dont care a straw for seeing the inside of that  wretched little heap exclaimed Ehilibert and if I  ever went in who knows whether I ever should come  out again Think what fierce little things these ants  are Remember what the fairy told us of terrible  soldiers that would let themselves be pulled in pieces  rather than let go an enemy whom they had caught hold  of Why they might catch hold of me  You forget that these soldiers were termites or  whiteants said Sydney and that we have none such  in England   And those fighting amazons  They too do not live in this country observed  young Pierce it was in Switzerland if you remember  that Huber watched the column on its march   But I dont see why English ants should be better  humomed than African or Indian or Swiss ants said  Philibert they may bite as fiercely as any Knowa  bit told us that those very woodants have been seen to  carry off pupils or puppies or what did he call  them   Pupae said Sydney with a smile  I know what 111 do observed Philibert Mr  Gray is coming to see papa this forenoon hes the clever  fellow with the bald head who knows so much about all  kinds of creatures Ill question him about ants Ill  ask him whether English pismires are quiet gentle good  natured little beasts that never think of fighting or  biting  There was no fear of Philibert Philimores forgetting  his intention for the perils that might be encountered in  an anthiU weighed a good deal on his mind When at  noon the boys entered the diningroom where the rosy  cheeked jovial squire and his grave intelligentlooking  guest were seated at table with wine and fruit before  them Philibert scarcely waited to shake hands with  Mr Gray before blurting out I want you to tell me  everything about ants  Thirst for knowledge thirst for knowledge said  the squire as he pushed the decanter of port towards his  guest as if he thought that Mr Gray might be thirsting  for something besides   The subject of ants is one on which we might talk  all day long observed the baldheaded gentleman there  are so many species of the formica or ant and their  manners and habits are so various The termites  Oh I know all about them already interrupted  Philibert they make houses twenty feet high and  have a big king and an enormous queen and soldiers  that fight like furies I want to know if other kinds of  ants are as savage  A green kind in Australia replied Mr Gray is  said to inflict a wound almost as painful as the sting of  a bee Another is called the fireant from the burning  sensation which it causes Captain Stedman relates that  a whole company of soldiers started and jumped about  as if scalded with boiling water from having got amongst  antnests A writer named Knox in an account of  Ceylon mentions a black ant which he tells us bites  desperately as bad as if a man were burned by a  coal of fire but he adds the consoling assurance that   they are of a noble nature and will not begin unless  you disturb them  The countenance of poor Philibert fell he felt more  frightened than ever and began to regard ants as  creatures much of the nature of wolves only happily  not so large and so strong Sydney who had not lost  his courage quietly inquired But what we should like  most to know sir is whether our own little English ants  ever bite or sting   Some small English ants replied Mr Gray such  as the red and the turf ants are undoubtedly possessed  of a sting but the genus in general is more given to  biting  Philibert uttered a little groan  The ant is decidedly a pugnacious creature con  tinued Mr Gray I had in one comer of my garden  three separate colonies of ants of different species the  yellow Formica flava the negio Foimica fusca and  the red Myrmica rubra and it was not safe for a  member of one of these colonies to cross over into the  territory of either of its neighbours Very savage battles  sometimes take place between armies of diifferent ants  Poor Philibert groaned again which made his father  glance up at him in surprise Why whats the matter  with the boy muttered he Seeing however nothing  to cause him any uneasiness in the fat face of his heir  the jovial squire observed aloud Ive heard that if a  kitchen be infested with beetles a sure way to get rid  of them is to introduce a colony of ants only he con  tinued gaily the remedy might be worse than the  disease   Do you mean inquired Sydney that the ant is a  match for the black beetle a creature fifty times larger  than itself   We must allow for numbers observed Mr Gray   Ants small as they are seem to understand the axiom  Union is strength But a lady of my acquaintance  actually saw a single ant kill a wasp that appeared to  have been by some accident disabled so as to be unable  to fly  An ant kill a wasp exclaimed Philibert daiting  an uneasy glance towards Sydney   Yes even English ants are remarkable creatures  observed Mr Gray but when we compare them to the  termites the whiteants of warmer latitudes their  feats appear as nothing When I was in India he  continued addressing himself to the squire not liking  the bare appearance which the walls of rooms there  usually present I hung up on mine halfadozen good  engravings in gildel frames with glass to preserve the  prints One morning it seemed to me that the glass was  uncommonly dull and the frames seemed to be covered  with dust I walked up to them intending to give a  good dusting to them and a good scolding to my care  less native servants when what was my surprise to find  each glass not hanging in the frame as I had left it the  night before but actually fixed to the wall by a cement  put round it by the whiteants The insects had eaten  up the wooden frames for their supper had gobbled up  the greater part of my beautiful pictures showing a taste  for such works of art and as the glass was too hard for  even their strong little jaws they had left each upheld  by the covered way of cement which they had formed  after their usual fashion in order to devour their meal in  peace  The boys looked astonished and the squire observed  Insects with such voracious appetites must be the  plague of your lives in India   Nothing seems to come amiss to whiteants said  Mr Gray smiling they ve no objection to boots shoes  papers clothing We have sometimes to put the feet of  our chests of drawers into saucers full of water to pre  vent the whiteants from eating up their contents   I wonder what such mischievous insects were made  for exclaimed Philibert Philimore  My young friend observed Mr Gray gravely   everything has its own proper place in creation and  some of the insects which we most dislike are valuable  workers for man Whiteants like burying beetles and  other creatures that are no favourites of ours such as  jackals and vultures perform very important seivices  They are the scavengers of nature they clear away  refuse dead animals and decaying matter which if  left to corrupt on the ground would taint the air and  make it unwholesome  Sydney Pierce did not speak but he remembered  what his mother had often told him of the beautiful  arrangements in the natural world by which various  races of creatures are made to conduce to the support  and comfort of others nor had he forgotten Knowabits  account of the poor Africans fixiding their termites to be  delicious food  Tve heard said the squire that in Tropical  America there is a species of ants so useful in this way  of clearing off rubbisi that when an army of them are  seen on the march the people throw open every box and  drawer in their houses that the ants may come in and  make a clean sweep of all the centipedes scorpions and  poisonous reptiles to say nothing of cockroaches and  beetles that are apt to hide there in holes and crannies  Even rats and mice lizards and snakes are said to be  hunted out and destroyed by these wonderful ants  That kind of ants is called foraging and belongs  to the genus Eciton remarked Mr Gray These  foragingants sally forth in immense hosts their columns  are sometimes a hundred yards in length 1   Oh they beat the amazons out and out exclaimed  Philibert   And it is a curious circumstance that these armies  of foragingants seem to be eoiumauded by regular  officers continued Mr Gray about one officer to each  twenty common men I beg pardon I should say  common ants  And have the officers gold epaulets on to show  their rank asked Sydney playfully   No they are distinguished by their large white  heads which go nodding up and down as they run along  by the side of their men I mean ants to see that all  are marching in proper order   Well of all wonderful creatures that ever I have  heard of I think that ants are the most wonderful  exclaimed Philibert They seem these foragingants   to be like famous housemaids aiid better than house  maids if they clear the rooms even of snakes But he  added looking more grave I shouldnt like to watch  the little fellows while they were busy at work for fear  lest if they could not find cockroaches and lizards and  snakes enough to please them they should take a fancy  to me   I should certainly advise you to take the precaution  of getting out of their way said Mr Gray with a  smile The natives it is said when the insect army  draws near run out of their dwellings and leave them  for awhile to the ants They know that the foragers  will make themselves very much at home and help  themselves without need of assistance to whatever they  can find When the insects have finished their useful  work they march off and the people return to their  houses finding them all the more comfortable and safe  from the visit of the foragingants   If a man should happen to come across one of the  armies of ants what would he do inquired Sydney   If he were a sensible fellow he would take to his  heels and be off replied Mr Gray   I think that it is time that you and I should be off  too observed the squire rising from table for we  have a good long ride before us you know And well  follow the fashion of these foragingants by clearing the  table he added pulling towards him a dish of beautiful  grapes of which he and his guest had just been par  taking Sydney and Philibert my lads heres a  bunch for each of you and with a goodhumoiued nod  to his son and young guest by way of goodbye the  squire followed Mr Gray to the old stone porch which  led into the courtyard of Fairydell Hall where two  saddled horses were waiting for the gentlemen in charge  of a mounted groom  CHAPTER VIII  FRISKET EXPLORING  JHE squire was much too courteous to have  pulled the ripe bunches out of the china dish  as roughly as he did had he known that a  lady was reclining in the midst of the fruit  resting so lightly upon it as not to rub the down from a  single grape We may wonder that after all that Fairy  Frisket had said to her brother of her dislike for man  kind and her love for a free airy life in the woods we  should find her in a dish of grapes in the diningroom of  Fairydell Hall But the curiosity of the little lady had  been fairly aroused having seen something of the human  race she was inclined to see a little more especially as she  had not foimd it to be as utterly bad as her fancy had  pictured Fairy Frisket began to think that a large old  house might be quite as great a curiosity as a rooks or a  jackdaws nest especially as some of the building materials  must have been brought from a very great distance  Frisket had spent hours in the earlier pait of the day  in flying about the hall or loinning up the edge of the  staircase banister with those tiny fairy feet that did not  disturb a particle of dust upon the carved oak The  pictures which hung upon the walls had greatly puzzled  the fairy she had had her doubts at first whether the  portrait of Lord Bacon in his highcrowned hat and large  ruffle were not really alive only she had never heard  of any race of men who had heads without bodies and  though the ruffle might be a kind of huge white wing  it seemed to her scarcely suited to fly with Closer  examination convinced the fairy that the picture had  nothing in it of life What pleased Frisket most was  a window of stained glass which she found at the end  of a corridor It would have been the prettiest of  sights could any one have seen it to have beheld  the little fairy fluttering in the coloured rays that came  streaming through the diamondshaped panes her gos  samer robe and transparent wings now catching tints  of rich crimson then of purple and then of deep  blue  Bent upon exploring every comer of the curious old  house Frisket had actually found her way into the  kitchen but the sight of a great joint of raw beef hang  ing up and the scent of ham and of cheese had soon  sent the fairy flying away in disgust She had lingered  for a few minutes however chiefly attracted by the  huge fire the first fire be it remembered that Frisket  ever had seen   Have these strange mortals mused the fairy   managed to imprison within those black bars the wild  Willothewisp which I have sometimes seen at night  dancing over the moor even I never could catch it Or  are these red flames that go roaring up that dark pass  age flashes of lightning kept in a cage  That single kitchenfire gave Frisket a greater icjea of  the power and skill of mankind than anything else in  the large old dwelling had she seen a lucifer match  lighted it would have struck her with amazement   Is that big mortal with a face like a poppy feeding  that shining thing with lumps like stones but blacker  than beetles Is it alive that it darts upward and  curls around them and licks them with bright red  tongues and utters such a joyous crackle as if it enjoyed  its meal exclaimed Frisket as she watched the cook  at the very commonplace occupation of putting on coals  The little lady drew nearer to examine the fire more  closely till the heat of the flame began to scorch her  transparent wings and annoyed by this and the savoury  scents of the kitchen the fairy took her flight from the  place to rest herself after her wanderings amongst the  cool purple and green grapes that appeared upon the  diningroom table  When the squire had disposed of the fruit as we have  seen between the two boys Fiisket returned to her  former perch upon the soft velvet of Philiberts dress  resting her head against one of the yellow locks of the  little boys hair Of course she curiously examined his  linen collar as it lay so close under her eyes but she  thought it as coarse as we might think a piece of rough  matting and said to herself that mortals were a very  long way indeed behind the gossamer spiders   I say Sydney you dont get such jolly giapes as  these at your home observed Philibert Philimore as he  plucked at his fine large bunch   I seldom get grapes of any sort replied Sydney   and therefore I suppose I enjoy these all the more  The fruit was indeed no small treat to the delicate  boy whose natiually feverish temperament made the  cool juicy fruit especially refreshing He only wished  that his dear mother could have shared the rich purple  bunch which he held in his hand  The boys sauntered out of the diningroom into the  large old hall panelled with oak and hung with ancient  armour stuffed foxes heads and stags horns This  hall was an especial delight to Sydney whose fancy  eopled it with the knights and ladies of old As Phili  bert and his companion crossed it they met Mary com  ing from the little postern entrance with an empty jar in  her hand   Little Simon Garland has just brought back the jar  which the soup was sent in Do you wish to see him  Master Philibert asked Mary Though she addressed  herself to her young charge she glanced at Sydney as  she spoke   Theres no use in our seeing him said Philibert   he has been given money physic and soup I dont  know what he can want more   Perhaps he would like us to give him a kind word  too and ask after his sick father observed Sydney  Pierce His mother had taught him that it is not only  help but sympathy that the poor should have from those  who are richer and his own heart told him that a smile  and kind word will often give more pleasure than a  present  As Philibert had nothing more amusing to do he  went with his guest to the little lowarched door at  which Simon Garland was waiting the squires son eat  ing his grapes as he went and throwing down the skins  on the polished oak floor an untidy proceeding which  offended the invisible fairy  Frisket had as we know seen very little of human  kind In the squires comfortable home every one  except perhaps his young guest appeared sleek and  well fed the squire himself was jovial and stout Phili  berts cheeks though not rosy were plump and round  the looks of every one of the servants showed that they  were not stinted in regard to mutton and beef Trisket  haxl an idea that almost all mankind were heavy and  fat and great was her surprise when human poverty for  the first time met her view With wondering pity she  looked upon little Simon with his face so thin and so  pale his neatlypatched clothes and the coarse shoes  that had been worn so long as to be iast patching and  mending   Alas poor child he looks like a dry peapod said  the fairy to herself I hope that there are not many of  the human race like him  Could Frisket have glanced into many of the wretched  abodes of the poor she would have seen sights of sorrow  that might have saddened even the blithe little fairy   How is your father Simon asked Sydney kindly  while Philibert stood by eating up his grapes as fast as  he could   Fathers the better for the soup thank ee master  replied Simon a grateful smile lighting up his thin little  face But he hant got rid of the fever yet he lies  a long time awake o nights the cough tries him so  and hinders his sleeping   And makes his mouth feel hot and dry I daresay  said Sydney who knew too well what it is thus to  suffer   Mother aFays puts a cup of water by fathers bed  side at night just to cool his lips Taking a drop now  and then he drinks it all up afore morning  Frisket noticed that Sydney glanced down at the bunch  of grapes which he held then again at the boy then once  more at the sweet juicy fruit She guessed the thought  which was passing through the mind of Sydney and  watched with keen interest the first struggle against self  which she had ever yet had an opportunity of seeing  SYDNEY AND 8IUON   I say Sydney theres our dinnerbell observed  Philibert turning on his heel  The little glutton exclaimed the fairy he has  eaten half a cluster of grapes already and now he is  eager for that heavy animal food  The moment that Philiberts back was turned Sydney  held out his own tempting bunch of grapes to the sick  mans son This will refresh your poor father more  than the water he said and hunying away without  waiting for thanks he joined his little companion  CHAPTER IX  THE BRUSH AND THE WAND  CLL done Sydney Pierce well done ex  claimed the invisible fairy I shall stir  your food with the golden end of my  wand you shall enjoy your dinner to  day it shall be the sweetest that you  ever ate in your life I could almost wish that I my  self were a child instead of a fairy that I too might  have a battle to fight and a victory over self to win  that I too might give up something to make a poor  sufferer happy This must be a nobler kind of pleasure  than any that fairyland can afford 1  Philibert usually took his meals in his playroom  where he was waited upon by Mary To the play  room therefore the two boys went at the summons of  the bell accompanied by the imseen fairy still perched  upon Philiberts shoulder A very savoury scent pro  ceeded from the dish at the top of the table which was  spread with a milkwhite cloth on which appeared  plates knives forks and spoons laid for two The  savoury scent was not agreeable to Fairy Frisket it  reminded her of the kitchen and the great joint of raw  meat which she had seen hanging up there But if the  odour annoyed the fair lady it had a very different  eflFect upon the two boys   I say theres something good in that dish I can  tell by the smell crieu Philibert Whip off the  cover Mary were both as hungry as hounds  Sydney was the more hungry of the two as he had  not damped his appetite by eating half a pound of ripe  grapes Very tempting to him was the appearance of  the nicelybrowned cutlets with the rich thick sauce  around them which met his view when Mary had lifted  the cover from the dish  I say this is good exclaimed Philibert grasping  his knife and fork and holding them upright while his  fat little fists rested on the table Cook hasnt given  us veal cutlets before for ever so long   Veal is that veal asked Sydney in a tone that  betrayed a little disappointment   Yes jolly nice it is Dont you like it said  Philibert   I daresay that I should like it very much replied  Sydney but the doctor forbade my ever eating veal   Oh the doctors a donkey 1 cried Philibert and  youre not under his thumb at Fairydell Hall Just  eat away like a man it wont do you a bit of harm  Sydney hesitated for a moment and then said with a  little effort My mother would not wish me to take it  A pink tinge rose upon the boys cheek as he spoke   But your mother is not here any more than the  doctor and I won t tell of you cried Philibert laugh  ing as he plunged his fork into the nearest brown  cutlet   Ill do just the same as if she were here she trusts  me said Sydney And again Frisket exclaimed Well  done at this second little victory over self   But you dont mean to go without your dinner I  suppose said Philibert and he put a large piece of the  cutlet into his own mouth   Perhaps I can have something else only I am  sorry to give trouble replied Sydney looking at Mary  who was bringing in a dish of green pease  Oh hell fare like a fairy for once exclaimed  Frisket who was pleased at the idea of her favourite  boy giving up what she considered the shocking habit  of feeding upon meat But the next words of Sydney  undeceived her  Perhaps there is a little cold meat in the house   Certainly Master Pierce theres sure to be a bit  left from the cold shoulder of mutton Ill fetch it  directly said Mary and she quitted the room She  was ever willing to serve Master Sydney who is such  a thorough little gentleman always civil and kind to  every one as the maid observed to the cook when she  asked her for the mutton   Well Sydney you are a poor creature if you dare  not so much as venture on a bit of nice veaJ for fear of  making yourself sick cried Philibert munching as he  spoke The colour on Sydneys cheek rose higher than  before he looked as if he were about to make some  sharp retort to the boy who could despise him merely  for being less hearty and strong than himself but he  pressed his lips tightly together and uttered nothing in  reply Again the fairy marked a silent victory over  self  But Frisket felt no need for the same selfcommand  in a fairy indeed she had taken the idea into her tiny  head that having once come amongst young mortals  she might do great things in the way of bringing them  into good order Twice she had refrained from touch  ing up Master Philibert with her woe brush made of  wasp stings but now she gave him a brisk tap on the  lobe of his fat little ear   Waaa yelled the boy starting up from his seat  and clapping his hand over the place  Whats the matter asked Sydney in surprise unable  to help thinking that Philibert was indeed a poor  creature for giving such a roar like a baby   Something has stung me some horrid ugly beast I  waal howled Philibert Ah if he could but have  seen the face of Frisket when he gave such a description  of a faiiy 1  Sydney goodnaturedly jumped down and ran to the  rescue to find out the offending creature That Phili  bert had been hurt was plain enough for the big tears  were running down his plump cheeks   I cant see a wasp anywhere nor any other insect  said Sydney after a search  I daresay its one of those dreadful foragingants  or amazons or termites or something cried Philibert  quite forgetting in his pain that none of these insects  are natives of England I daresay it has hid itself in  my clothes He jumped up and violently shook his  blue dress Perhaps it is running down my back  O Sydney O Mary the maid had just returned with  the meat do look for the horrid thing that has stung  me right on the ear  Sydney looked and Mary looked amongst the boys  clothes under the collar under the sleeves about the  table below the table but of course they looked in  vain Frisket did not choose to pull her tassel and  they might have searched to the end of their lives be  fore they discovered the fairy  If Frisket had hoped to mend the manners or improve  the temper of Philibert Philimore by that rap on his ear  flO THE BRUSH AND THE WAND  she was to be disappointed The boy returned to his  veal cutlets in a mood like that of a wounded bear  while Sydney ate his cold mutton with a serene con  science and the sauce of a good appetite Young Pierce  would have preferred the daintier dish but he was  happy in the consciousness that he was obeying his  mother and much enjoyed his simple food   I cannot bear to touch flesh with my fairy wand  murmured Frisket for veal and mutton are food which  no fairy could ever abide but if anything eatable appear  on the table Ill make the boy who gave away all his  grapes taste something sweeter than anything which  has ever yet passed the lips of a mortal  The meat course was succeeded by a greengage tart  a help from which was placed by Mary before each of  the boys Little guessed they who stood on the edge of  Philiberts china plate taking care not to dip her delicate  little feet into the juice of the fruit as she stirred it with  the green end of ier wand Frisket then flew off like a  butterfly and without alighting plunged the golden tip  for a second into the midst of Sydneys supply   What a horrid taste this tart has exclaimed Phili  bert turning up his nose with a look of disgust when  he had taken the first spoonful of the fruit tart before  him   Why Master Philibert you always like greengage  tart better than anything else said Mary   I dont like this it tastes like soap ugh exclaimed  Philibert pushing back his plate   Do you find anything wrong in the tart Master  Sydney asked Mary  Sydney had just been thinking that he had never  before in his life tasted anything half so nice All the  sweetness of a bunch of rich grapes seemed to be gathered  into every greengage He only smiled however and  replied I cannot say that I find anything wrong  Thus encouraged Philibert tried another spoonful but  he could scarcely manage to swallow it Taste it  yourself he cried fiercely to Mary pointing to the  remains of the tart in the dish  Mary tasted and thought it excellent it had not been  stirred by the fairy  Ill tell you what Master Philibert said Mary  youve been making yourself sick by eating such a  quantity of rich veal cutlet I believe Master Sydneys  mamma is quite right veal is not wholesome for children  You do not like that nice tart because youre not in a  humour to like anything  I dont like soap exclaimed Philibert fiiriously  flinging himself backwards on his chair and kicking  upwards at the table which action set the glasses jingling  and the fairy laughing while neither Sydney nor Mary  found it easy to keep from smiling Perhaps there was  some truth in the guess of the maid at least some of  my readers may have found themselves inclined to find  fault with viands which hungry little children would  enjoy from having played the glutton like Philibert  Philimore Oreedineas often has the same effect as the  green end of the fairys wand   I wonder how you can behave so like a big baby  Master Philibert said Mary to her spoiled young charge   Im really ashamed that Master Sydney should see you  in your tantrums You first roar and cry out that you  are stung when theres nothing near that could hurt  you and then complain of the nicest food instead of  being thankful that you have dainties when others can  scarcely get bread Im sure that with all your play  things and pleasures you ought to be the happiest boy  in the world   Tm not happy at all 1 growled Philibert the fairys  greentipped wand was at that moment touching his eye  lid Im tired of all my playthings they are so ugly  and stupid and I dont see what pleasures I have I  dont like this great dull old Hall its the most gloomy  place in the world  Sydney uttered an exclamation of astonishment   Oh 1 it seems to me to be so grand so beautiful every  thing that I see here I admire so much I can hardly  fancy any place more delightful than Fairydell Hall  Of course Friskets wand had touched his eyelid but  it was the goldentipped end Ah little reader whether  you dwell in a cottage or a palace a shop in a street or  a castle amid woods how do you view the objects around  you Are you pleased with and thankful for your  blessings or inclined to find fault with everything around  you Contentment is the golden end of the wand and  discontent is the green one Wonderfiil is the difference  made in every object by the touch of the one or the  other  CHAPTER X  INSIDE THE CITY  fP you believe Sydney that anything will really  come of Knowabits touching us th that  curious fancypomatum as he calls it was  Philibeiis anxious whisper when on the  evening of that day the two boys were pre  jiaring for bed  The fairy has always kept his promises replied  Sydney so it seems as if we ought not to doubt him  though it is difficult to imagine being turned into an  ant  The pot of pomatum was so very very small  observed Philibeit  Ah but perhaps a very little fiincy may go a  long way said Sydney  Philibert was very restless and uneasy and could not  get to sleep for some time perhaps owing to a feeling of  fear and wonder perhaps from his having eaten too  plentifully of veal cutlet Sydney slept long and serenely  but awoke at last with a sensation of the greatest amaze  ment The fresh cool air of early mom was around  him the forest boughs waved above him the morning  star was growing pale in the clear blue sky and in the  east a bar of red gold showed where the sun was about  to rise What astonished Sydney for no expectation  beforehand could prepare him for a sensation so exceed  ingly funny was to find himself quite close to the earth  and so small that he could have run up a blade of grass  or have hidden himself under a daisy   Oh 1 exclaimed Sydney in amazement what would  my mother say if she knew that her boy was running  about upon six little legs no bigger than pinpoints  If I am asked how Sydney in his new shape managed  to utter such an exclamation I must own that it puzzles  me to give an explanation It is true that he had a jaw  and a tongue but whether he was able to produce with  them any sound which could be heard even by an ant  the most learned naturalist scarcely could undertake to  decide That ants have some kind of language under  stood by their companions at least that they are able  in some way to ask for food or for help or to give  tidings where a prize may be found seems clear to  those who have watched them closely Some believe  that this language is expressed by the motion of their  feelers or antennse that it is something like the method  by which deaf and dumb people speak on theu fingem  while others suppose that these same quivering antennae  are actually to ants what ears are to us and convey to  them sounds too faint to reach mans less delicate sense  As Fairy Knowabit is never likely dear reader to turn  either you or me into emmets we shall probably never  know exactly the nature of this ant language Had we  been ever so close to Sydney when he uttered his ex  clamation of wonder we should certainly not have heard  it and we should have seen in him nothing but a very  commonplace rusycoloured pismire such as may be  found running about in hundreds of woods in England   O dear Sydney Pierce is that you cried an ant  close beside him Isnt it horrid to feel so dreadfully  small Im so glad that you are in the scrape as well as  myself   We had better make the most of our time while we  are so small observed Sydney the ant Theres our  hill Id no notion that it was so big why it looks to  me now as large as one of the Pyramids of Egypt How  our little companions here ever managed to raise it so  high puzzles my brain  I dont fancy going in cried Philibert He was  not possessed of a very stout heart either as a boy or a  pismire I dont like at all being jostled in a crowd  and Im sure that of all bustling busy places in the  world an anthill must be about the worst   Aie you in want of a guide gentle strangers said  a pismire approaching the visitors and laying her little  quivering antennae on Sydney in a manner which he felt  to be the perfection of antpoliteness I see that you  do not belong to this community and it might be agree  able to you if I were to conduct you through a few of  the chambers and galleries in the city before us  Sydney was astonished at a pismire having such an  elegant manner and address he little knew that it was  Fairy Frisket herself who had chosen to animate the  form of an ant bent upon having a little frolic with her  human companions in this their strange new position   We should be very much obliged to you indeed Mrs  Ant if you would kindly show us the way and intro  duce us to the gentlemen and ladies inside the city  replied Sydney or they may think that we have no  business to go wandering about in the place  Why where are the little holes which we saw  yesterday with the ants running in and out of them  cried Philibert Philimore   Ive heard observed Frisket that human beings  put up shutters on their windows and close their doors  at night and much in the same way these woodants  stop up their passages when darkness comes on that  they may labour or rest in peace and quiet in their  homes They are not like the brown ants that love to  go abroad in the night and who used to be supposed to  be especially fond of moonshine But see as it is  dawn the good people of the city are pulling down their  shutters and opening their doors which shows that they  expect the day to be fine   Would they keep their passages shut up then  asked Sydney if they expected the day to be wet  They keep their passages well closed in rainy  weather observed Fairy Frisket ants have a great  dislike to the rain   I should not think that such a heap of twigs straw  old grass little bits of wood and dried leaves could keep  out the slightest shower observed Sydney   You show that you are not an experienced pismire  said Frisket gaily You may notice that the whole  hill before us is skilfully rounded in shape so as to carry  off water and so constructed that even violent rains  can soak in but a very little way But there is an  opening from which two active ladies have just succeeded  in dragging several fragments of wood will you please  to walk in young gentlemen there is no need to knock  here before you enter  In trotted Fairy Frisket on her six little legs closely  followed by Sydney but Philibert hung back he was  afraid to enter what he considered to be a little black  hole  Sydney was astonished at the length of the passages  which he now traversed in company with the unknown  fairy His eyes being of course ants eyes he had no diffi  culty in moving about in what to human beings must have  seemed to be utter darkness He passed a great many  woodants who were exceedingly busy at their various  occupations too busy indeed to pay any attention to  him Each was working  by herself without inter  fering with her neigh  bours or appearing to  need any direction or aid  Sydney soon discovered  that what he had called  an anthill was a great  building great compared  to the size of the builders  with story raised upon  story long galleries and  ranges of rooms   What are those ants  about that I see running  down from the upper  stories canying little white  burdens asked Sydney  stepping backwards to let them pass for they seemed  in such haste that had he stood in their way they  might have run over his little body   They are the nurses looking after the comfoit of  the pupae the babyants replied Frisket The  weather promises to be so hot that the upper stories  will be too warm for the dear  little pets their nurses know  that they will be cooler on the  SE groundfloor or down in the eel  LARYA or ANT larS   What careful little nurses exclaimed Sydney   And when the weather grows cold will they carry the  children upstairs   Up they go in damp chilly weather nurses and  pupae together They know well enough that then it  is not healthful to live on the ground or under the  ground But you have as yet seen but a small part of  the city come this way Mr Ant and take a peep at  the tunnels and the galleries hollowed out yonder   These are what we should call vaults observed  Sydney as they took a downward direction through  passages formed in the earth itself with wonderful skill   low themselves but leading to a large middle chamber  which was crowded with ants I know that Squire  Philimore has beercellars winecellars and coalcellars  beneath his fine house but human beings seldom care  themselves to live in such dark low places These ants  seem to enjoy burying themselves alive   Alive you may well say answered the fairy for  they are lively enough and busy enough and dont care  for plenty of light and air as human beings are said to  do But these woodants go to sleep in the winter  huddled up in their little cells and not requiring to eat  or drink until the warm sunshine in spring calls them  up to labour and pleasure again  CHAPTER XI  THE ANTLION  E will now return to Philibert Philimore who  t had remained on the outside of the anthiU  feeling it must be confessed very nervous  and uneasy in his strange new position  The ants soon began to swarm in numbers  out of their city and Philibert had to move from his  place again and again to prevent his being jostled out of  it by his active little neighbours He was aware of a  very strong and peculiar scent from the anthill which  reminded him that Knowabit had once informed him  that vinegar can be made from ants   These rustycoloured little fellows must be different  indeed from those African whiteants thought Phili  bert Im sure that if these were dished up no one  would ever think them like sugared cream or sweet  almond paste   Get out of my way you snail you slug What  are you standing and staring and doing nothing for  cried an angry pismire as he pushed past Philibert  Philimore   Theres more of the vinegar than of the sugar in his  temper at least thought the poor little boy in the  shape of an ant   Come you here lazylegs and help me said  another pismire who was trying in vain to pull along a  bit of dried grass at least four times as long as herself  Philibert stood stockstill He did not choose to  work and very hurting to his pride it was to be bullied  by an ant   We dont keep idlers here cried the impatient  pismire If you dont work well bite off your head  The hint was enough Philibert rushed at the dry  bit of grass and pulled and tugged at it for his life He  had never laboured so hard before   Where are we to take it asked Philibert when  stopping for a moment to take breath   Into the hill of course theres one of the walls  that needs repairing Pull the grass right into that  doorway said the ant  Philibert had been afraid to venture into the anthill  in company with Sydney Pierce and now to go into a  dark place where he would probably lose his way and  that with a pismire who had thoughts of biting off his  head was so exceedingly unpleasant that the poor little  fellow could not make up his mind to do it Philiberts  end of the burden was nearer the hole than that held by  his new companion but by a sudden movement he  managed to change its position   What are you about you stupid cried the pismire   We dont want to lay it across the door but to carry  it in   I want you to take your end in first replied Phili  bert secretly resolving that he would not enter at alL   Youre an awkward pismire if there ever was one  cried the little labourer turning his end of the burden  however so as to drag it first into the hole  No sooner had the woodant disappeared under the  dark little doorway than Philibert dropped the bit of  dry grass and took to his I must not say heels but  his six little legs and ran oflT at a tremendous pace con  sidering the smallness of their size Nothing could stop  him in his course not even limips of clod almost as big  as peas A hairy caterpillar lay in his way Philibert  was over her in a moment The boy ant was running  for his life for he was dreadfully afraid that one of his  new companions would bite off his little black head   More haste worse speed says the proverb and poor  Philibert Philimore was to prove the truth of the saying  Little thought he as he scampered away from the hill  of hidden pitfalls or of secret foes who lie in ambush for  ants Running over a sandy spot down tumbled poor  Philibert into the trap which had been carefully prepared  to catch such prey by the insect called an antlion  What was his horror to find himself suddenly plunging  down the sandy pitfall almost rolling into the powerful  jaws of the dreadful creature lying in wait at the bottom  LYING IN WAIT  This creature was somewhat of the shape of a fat  gardenspider but with long slender mandibles to catch  at its prey Philibert certainly did not stop to examine  its appearance closely for having tumbled into the pit  all his efforts were now directed to scrambling out of it  again The antlion was no more inclined to let a  dinner escape than Philibert himself might have been  It was indeed quite unable to run after Philibert for  the antlion though possessed of six legs can only use  two of them for walking and that but to drag itself  slowly backwards so that it is clear that nature never  intended this creature to overtake its prey in the chase  But in the sand of the pit which it has digged the ant  lion possesses a terrible weapon for if the insect cannot  run it can jerk and fling as Philibert soon found to his  cost As the poor boy ant struggled up the steep sides  of the pit even the movement of his little legs brought  loose sand tumbling about him while the antlion from  behind sent a dreadful shower of it after him sand  grains being to an ant much what sharp stones would  be to a boy Philibert stiniggled scrambled sUpped  backwards then by dint of frantic efforts got a little  way up the side of the pit when a blow from a sand  grain knocked him down again almost into the jaws of  the hungry antlion Happily at that moment the hour  during which the fairy spell lasted expired and Phili  bert awoke with a scream leaving the body of the  pismire to serve as the antlions dinner  CHAPTER XII  BLACK SPOTS  HY what on earth is the matter Master  Sydney exclaimed Mary running into the  room of her charge in alarm at the sound of  his scream Philibert half raised on his  elbow in his bed was staring around him and  rubbing his eyes looking bewildered and frightened Did  anything hurt you to make you scream like a baby   You would have screamed too if a horrid spider had  been going to gobble you up cried Philibert fiercely  Mary burst out laughing Where is this spider  said she I should not have thought that a brave  young gentleman would have been frightened out of his  wits by a poor little insect   Little do you call it cried Philibert it was  bigger than myself and so fat 1  Mary laughed more merrily than before You must  have had a fimny dream said she   Ive not been dreaming at all you know nothing  about the matter cried Philibert who was highly  offended and not a little ashamed He was sufficiently  wideawake now to remember that he would get into a  great scrape with Knowabit if he mentioned to any  one except of course to Sydney who was himself in  the secret anything about his intercourse with the fairy  Philibert could say nothing about fancypomatum to  Mary nor tell her the extraordinary adventure which he  had had in the shape of a woodant Not being able to  ve any explanation of his conduct Philibert felt ex  ceedingly vexed at having been heard to utter a scream  and then woids which must he knew have sounded ab  solute nonsense He almost danced about the room with  passion when while she was helping the little boy to  dress himself Mary remarked with a provoking smile   I shall take very good care little master that cook  never sends up veal cutlets again for your dinner  Very sulky and illtempered was Philibert during all  the time that he was washing and dressing the soap  flew one way the sponge another and the boy would  scarcely stand still for a moment to have the parting  made down the middle of his curly head of hair Mary  set down all this temper of course as the eflect of eat  ing veal cutlets As savage as a bear the squires son  met his companion Sydney in the playroom before  breakfast while Mary went for the cups and saucers the  fresh milk butter and eggs  The face of Sydney was bright with goodhumour  Fairy Frisket who was hovering near had again touched  his eyelids with the golden tip of her wand  O Philibert began the smiling Sydney what a  curious amusing hour we two spent with the ants 1   Curious amusing indeed 1 exclaimed Philibert with  anger I dont know what ycm may think it but  think it anything but amusing to crawl about upon six  legs and then to be nearly devoured by a spider How  dared you leave me in the lurch   I leave you What do you mean asked Sydney   I only went into the anthill and I thought of course  that you were coming in too Why did you not follow  that most polite little ant  Philibert did not choose to reply Because I was too  much frightened to venture although that would cer  tainly have been the most honest answer to have given   I did not choose he muttered to go into that horrid  dirty hole   I assure you that the place was neither dirty nor  horrid but extremely curious and interesting said  Sydney But do tell me of your adventures Phili  bert I cant imagine how you managed to get into the  web of a spider   I never said that I got into a web replied the  squires son as tartly as if he had been accused of getting  into a jail I tumbled down a horrid crumbling pit  fall at the bottom of which lay a fat gray spider with  dreadful long feelers which jerked up such a lot of sand  after me that as fast as I clambered up I tumbled back  again almost into its gaping jaws   Oh it must have been an antlion not a spider  exclaimed Sydney with animation My mother has  told me all about it and she said that though called a  British insect it is seldom if ever found in this country  but it is common enough in France There is no crea  ture that I have ever wished more to see   I wish that you had had to do with it instead of  me I am sure that I saw much more of it than I  liked growled Philibert Philimore   The antlion has a strong flat head said Sydney  recalling what he had been taught with one of its  legs it will manage to place upon this head a load of  sand which it chucks upwards with wonderful strength  tossing as if it were a little bull That curious insect  will carry up out of its pit even a stone two or three  times the weight of its body Fancy what a head it  must have  Philibert gave a little grunt as if he took no great  pleasure in hearing of the antlions strength or skill and  muttered Its the ugliest beast that ever I saw in my  life  But its beautytime is to come observed Sydney   Mother says that the antlion makes for itself a case or  coffin of sand fastened together by threads of its silk  puts a silken web over the whole and then goes to sleep  as the chrysalis of a caterpillar does turns into a pupa  and bursts out at last with four beautiful gauzy wings  and looks very much Jike that lovely creature the  dragonfly   I dont care to hear anything more about it its all  stupid nonsense to say that that horrid little monster of  a spider can ever turn into a creature with wings ex  claimed Philibert The illtempered boy added many  other foolish words to a speech which showed great  ignorance now abusing the antlion now his innocent  companion for leaving him to the spider as he persisted  in calling the insect and now Knowabit the fairy  for having dared to rub upon him that horrid fancy  pomatum  I have mentioned that Fairy Frisket was present in  the room of course listening to all that was said and  very indignant was the little lady at the conduct of the  squires spoiled boy Frisket had taken into her tiny head  the idea that she could by means of fairy punishments  bring Philibert Philimore into much better order reform  his temper and mend his manners Certainly the boy had  seemed none the better for the rap from the fairys sting  brush nor for the spoiling of his greengage tart but  Frisket who had had no experience in teaching and who  was as positive in her own opinion as ignorant people  often are was resolved to keep to her punishment plan  Perching upon Philiberts shoulder once more at every  silly passionate word which he uttered the fairy tapped  his cheek or nose with the green end of her wand leav  ing wherever she tapped a tiny black spot behind  Sydney Pierce did not notice any change in his young  companion because he was not looking at Philibert As  the squires son was so much out of temper Sydney  thought it better to leave his passion to cool and trying  to pay as little attention as possible to Philiberts bad  language young Pierce was examining the pretty pic  tures which ornamented the walls But when Mary re  entered the playroom with the breakfast on a tray she  had hardly set it down on the table before she exr  claimed in amazement Why Master Philibert what is  the matter with your cheek  Her exclamation made Sydney turn round and look   Its all sprinkled with black speckles he cried  Philibert pulled out his little silk handkerchief and  gave the fat cheek such a vigorous scrubbing that he  made it as red as fire But this had only the effect of  making the speckles appear on a scarlet ground instead  of rather a sallow one   Dear dear dear exclaimed Mary each dear  being uttered in a tone of louder alarm its a black  rash coming out on your face Thats not measles nor  chickenpox nor smallpox oh if my father the  chemist were but here I I never heard of black spots  except except in the plague  Philibert stared at Mary with his eyes and mouth  wide open then rushed in terror to a little mirror over  the mantelpiece and commenced rubbing his face again  with more energy than before   You had none of these spots when we met finst in  the morning said Sydney who little guessed that the  ugly marks had been left by foolish and naughty words  Ah little reader if Fairy Frisket with her greentippe  wand were perched on your shoulder would that merry  face of yours never be dotted with ugly black spots for  naughty talking   I must speak to the squire directly about this said  Mary as she hastened out of the room feeling seriously  alarmed She met the jovial master of Fairydell Hall at  the door of his study   Please sir may I speak to you about Master Phili  bert said Mary in a tone so anxious that it awoke a  little alarm in the father   Nothing wrong with the child I hope cried the  squire  I dont know sir indeed replied Mary but  Master Philibert is so odd He has been exceedingly fmc  tious has Master Philibert both yesterday and today   He wants a little more of the rod and a little less  bread and butter observed the squire with a good  humoured smile   He awoke this morning with such a scream sir and  cried that he was going to be eaten up by a spider bigger  than himself   Dreaming dreaming laughed the squire the  little chap had taken too hearty a dinner   And just now continued Mary a black rash has  broken out on one of his cheeks and the side of his  nose   A black rash 1 reechoed the astonished squire  every trace of a smile leaving his face This must be  looked to at once and striding into his study Mr  Philimore rang the bell loudly and in half a minute  rang it loudly again which brought Thomas up in such  haste that he nearly fell over the coalscuttle which  careless Sarah the housemaid had left in the passage  Thomas mount Brownie at once and ride off to  the town for the doctor 1 cried the impatient squire  Tell Dr Grim that Master Philibert has been taken  ill and I beg that hell come and see my son directly  Then while Thomas hastened off to the stable to get  Brownie saddled and bridled the squire himself strode  up the oak staircase to the playroom taking two steps  at a time   A black rash as sure as a gun I never saw any  thing like it before cant imagine what can cause such  a symptom 1 cried the squire as he examined the fat  little cheek which Frisket had powdered with spots The  squire looked grave Sydney looked grave Mary looked  grave and poor Philibert who began to fancy that  something very dreadful must be going to happen was  ready to burst into a roar  Fairy Frisket was astonished at all the alarm and  trouble which she had occasioned by merely making a  few little black dots on a mortals cheek Cowslips did  not mind being speckled the ladybird never seemed a  bit the worse for the spots on her wings Fairy Frisket  we must remember had never known sickness the  word symptom was like Greek and Hebrew to her  she had not an idea what measles smallpox or chicken  pox could possibly be  Im really sorry that all these moitals should vex  themselves so about a little speckling said the fairy to  herself Ill not dot Master Philiberts face any more  let him talk what nonsense he may  The fear that he had some horrible illness coming on  took away all poor Philiberts appetite for his breakfiast  he ate scarcely quarter of a thin slice of bread and  butter and his nice fresh egg went untasted away But  as we know the fairys spells never lasted very long  and almost as soon as Mary had cleared the breakfast  things away all the black dots passed away from the  skin of her charge causing almost as much surprise by  their disappearance as they had done by coming at all  I dont think that there can be much the matter  with you Master Philibert after all said Maiy with a  little sigh of relief   I say Sydney well go out into the woods cried  Philibert as he and his companion strolled out of the  playroom together I want to find the pit of that  horrid spider or antlion as you call it thats not a  bad name after all for when I was an ant it was just  like a lion to me   Oh I should very much like to see it 1 exclaimed  Sydney it would interest my mother so much to hear  all about that creature and its curious pit  Wont I smash the horrid little beast wont I  crush it and stamp upon it cried Philibert grinding  his teeth as he recalled in a spirit of fierce revenge what  he had suffered in his fright I may here observe and  I beg my young readers to remark whether they do not  find my observation to be a true one that they who are  the most cowardly are very often the most cruel also   You would not pimish a poor little insect for acting  according to its instinct cried Sydney It was no  more wicked in the antlion wishing to eat you when  you were in the form of an ant than it would have been  for Squire Philimore to have shot you had you been in  the form of a hare  I do hate the antlion though however you may  choose to stand up for it and Ill kill it said Phili  bert fiercely  Happily for the antlion the boys in vain searched for  its pitfall though they had no difficulty in finding the  anthill Sydney looked down on the swarming pis  mires with their black heads and rustycoloured bodies  with a very curious feeling of interest and amusement   I never knew half of your cleverness and industry  you fine little fellows he cried till I paid you a  visit in your home Nor had I a notion how very  polite and pleasant you can make yourselves to a guest  No lady in her drawingroom could have had nicer  manners or a prettier way of talking than my little  guide  Sydney Pierce had no idea that his courteous com  panion on six legs had not been an ant but a fairy  I cant say much for the mannera of woodants  said Philibert shrugging his shoulders at least dont  call it civil to say If you dont work well bite off your  heai  CHAPTER XIII  THE doctors visit  HILIBERT had had no appetite for his breaks  fast but partly on that account after hisi  ramble in the woods he had a tremendous  appetite for his dinner   I wish that one oclock would come he  had exclaimed at least half a dozen times before the hour  actually arrived and he and Sydney sat down to a  capital dinner of roastbeef which was to be followed by  rich plumpudding  Philibert greedy as well as hungry seized the first  help for himself like a very illmannered boy as he was  and was just going to put a large piece of beef into  his mouth when footsteps were heard in the corridor  the door was opened and in stalked the thin black  haired hooknosed solemnlooking gentleman dressed in  black whom he knew to be Dr Grim The medical  man was followed by Squire Philimore   Come here to the doctor Philibert said the squire  in a tone which made his son feel that the summons  must instantly be obeyed Slowly and very unwill  ingly wishing Dr Grim a thousand miles off the hungry  boy put down his fork and approached the medical man  Dr Grim felt Philiberts pulse examined his tongue  looked at his cheek I do not observe any trace of a  rash such as you mentioned he said to the squire in a  peculiarly deep and solemn voice such as he might have  sjioken with had he been telling a patient that he was  going to die  It went off as suddenly as it came on sir said  Mary to whom the puzzled squire looked for an ex  planation  Again the doctor solemnly laid his cold fingers upon  Philiberts fat little wrist Not a bad pulse he  gloomily observed whatever he might say his manner  was gloomy Pray continued Dr Grim addressing  himself to Mary have you noticed anything peculiar  about the young gentleman   He has been exceedingly odd sir in his ways both  yesterday and today   What had he for dinner yesterday inquired the  doctor while poor Philibert hungry as a raven was  stealing furtive glances at the dinnertable to which he  longed to return   Veal cutlets sir replied Mary   Veal cutlets most unwholesome 1 said the doctor   that would account for any derangement of the system  Did the boy eat anything besides   Greengage tart sir but he scarcely would touch it  he said that it tasted like soap  The doctor nodded his head very gravely That  shows that something was wrong he observed   Wrong with the tart not with me exclaimed  Philibert who could not restrain his impatience even in  the presence of his father and the medical man for whom  he had a considerable awe   The tart was as good a one as ever was baked  observed Mary I tasted it myself and Master Pierce  enjoyed it very much but then he had not touched the  veal cutlets  Again the doctor nodded his head like one who begins  to see his way clearly   You said Mary that my boy awoke this morning  with a scream observed Squire Philimore   A dreadful scream sir as if he were frightened out  of his wits and yesterday he roared out at dinner  Master Pierce heard him as well as myself He cried  out that something had stung him on the ear but  though we searched in every direction nothing could be  found that could possibly have hurt him  What a blab she is muttered Philibert if shed  had such a stinging as I had shed have roared out her  self like a bulL   I am sure that Master Philibert could not have felt  well this morning he was so very fidgety and cross   I was quite well and I am quite well never better  in my life exclaimed Philibert angrily trying but in  vain to draw his wrist from the cold grasp of the  doctor s fingers   My dear young patient said Dr Grim in his slow  solemn way you are not competent to judge whether  you are or are not in good health Loss of appetite in  one so young is not a favourable symptom  Im as hungry as a hound as a whole pack of  hounds cried out poor Philibert desperately   But you had a distate for a nice greengage tart and   as Ive heard from your father you scarcely touched  your breakfast this morning It is clear that you are  not as well as we wish you to be but I think here the  doctor turned and addressed himself to the squire I  think that we can soon put matters to rights I will  send a little medicine to be taken at night  Philibert made a wry face he knew too well by  experience what the doctors medicine was like  And in the meantime continued Dr Grim our  young patient who is of somewhat too full a habit must  be kept to very light and simple diet He must be  given nothing but weak beeftea barleygruel and toast  and water  Such a sentence was dreadful to the famishing boy   I want my roastbeef he exclaimed and but for the  presence of the squire and the doctor Philibert would  have stamped and roared with disappointment and pas  sion   Weak beeftea and barleygruel repeated Dr Grim  with grave decision and he must not fail to take the  medicine at night Any one can see that the poor child  is suffering the tears were rolling down Philiberts  cheeks but he was only suffering from disappointment  hunger and passion   I am glad however that you seem to think that  nothing very serious is the matter with my poor little  man said the squire I thought myself that his com  plaint was only from a little overfeeding   Veal cutlets he must never touch again observed  the doctor   Sydney my boy Im afraid that your roastbeef is  getting cold said the kindhearted squire turning  to wards his little guest who had been patiently waiting  till the doctor should leave before beginning his meal   Set to your dinner and eat plenty theres no fear of  your taking too much And you Marj go to the cook  and see about the beeftea and the barleygruel at once   I hate gruel I never can touch it maynt I have  plumpudding at least almost sobbed out Philibert   Plumpudding echoed the doctor looking as he  might have done had his patient asked for a dish of  poison Beeftea and gruel and not much of them  must you have for your dinner if you touch either  meat or pudding Ill not be answerable for the conse  quences  And perhaps the doctor was not very far wrong after  all though of course the effects of Fairy Friskets sting  brush and wand had misled him as they had misled the  squire and Mary for none of his learned books had made  any mention of fairies Poor greedy Philibert was pro  bably none the worse for a day of fasting for he was as  the medical man had observed of too full a habit being  usually inclined to eat more than was really good for  his health But a miserable day was passed by the  spoiled and selfindulgent child who was tortured with  actual hunger so that he almost envied the natives of  Africa their dish of whiteants or termites  CHAPTER XIY  Id be a butterfly  HILIBERT PHILIMORE had gone to sleep  hungry and he awoke more hungry still  never before in the course of his life had the  squires pampered boy felt such a craving for  food It did cross his mind that it must be  a dreadful thing to be poor and hungry every day in  the year Philibert now could feel some real pity for  the Garlands the sick father unable to work the thin  children who for months had not known what it was to  eat until they were satisfied for what Sydney and the  squire had liberally bestowed had chiefly gone to pay  rent It would be an excellent lesson for many a spoiled  child who cares nothing for the sufferings of the poor  were he to feel as Philibert did for one day how keen  are the pangs of hunger  Philibeit was not only inclined to be more ready to  pity but perhaps for the first time he had known  something of the feeling of gratitude Sydney had  been very kind indeed to his young companion when he  believed him to be unwell and knew that he was pining  for solid food Sydney had read aloud in the evening  till his throat had grown weary and hoarse and had  then tried to amuse Philibert in every other way that  he could think of Sydney had even given away to the  squires son the present which he himself had been pre  paring for his mother a beautiful little model of the  old gateway of Fairydell Hall which he with great  labour and care had cut out of old corks gumming  little bits of moss over parts of it to give the effect of  ivy No brother could have been kinder to Philibert  than Sydney had been no sister more gentle and  thoughtful his conduct had had a far more softening  effect upon Philibert Philimore than Fairy Friskets  stingbrush or even her greentipped wand  Oh Mary will you never get breakfast ready  exclaimed the impatient boy I can eat at least half  a dozen eggs so mind that you bring me plenty T   Indeed Master Philibert I doubt that you should  have one before you see Dr Grim again  But I must and will have one cried Philibert   I should like one as big as my head Do make as  much haste as you can for I am dying of hunger 1  If Philibert was only allowed to have one egg and  that not a large one for breakfast he made up for this  by his vigorous foray upon the slices of bread and butter  Mary could hardly spread and cut them as fast as her  young charge ate them and Sydney could not help  laughing to see how the loaf wb disappearing under the  attacks of Philiberts appetite The squires son enjoyed  his breakfast as much as if the fairy had stirred his food  with the golden end of her wand and Mary felt satisfied  that nothing was now the matter with her tioublesome  charge  After breakfast the two boys went out as usual into  the delightful grounds which surrounded Fairydell HalL   I should like to have another hunt for that horrid  antlion said Philibert Philimore  Happily for the little gravedigger as Sydney  called the insect his sandy pitfall was not to be found  and Fhilibert amused himself with running races on the  lawn with Sydney Pierce more to his own enjoyment  than to that of his guest for Sydney though strength  ened by his visit to Fairydell Hall waa yet too delicate  to be fit for any violent exercise While Sydney was  stopping to recover his breath pressing his hand against  his side Philibert caught sight of a beautiful butterfly  and instantly gave chase to the insect  Now butterflies are as may be supposed special pets  of the fairies who look upon them much as ladies look  upon their favourite poodles or parrots As it happened  this butterfly was not only a pet of Frisket but actually  on its way to a grand assembly of butterflies and moths  to which that fairy had invited it We may imagine  then the displeasure Mith which Lady Frisket who  chanced to be hovering near saw the squires son rushing  after her guest now almost clapping his hand over the  fluttering insect now baffled and panting hurrying in  some other direction after the prey just escaped from his  grasp Faiiy Frisket flew to the rescue and puisuing  the boy as the boy pursued the insect gave Philibert a  violent hit with her stingbrush on the back of his hand  just as he had succeeded in capturing the butterfly prize  Philibert utttaed a howl not only of pain but of  passion and punished the unfortunate insect for the deed  of the fairy by dashing it fiercely to the ground  Oh dont kill it dont hurt it exclaimed Syd  ney Pierce running to the spot to plead for the beauti  ful creature Why should you be so angry with the  pretty butterfly It never did you any harm   Harm I if youd been stung as Im stung youd not  say that exclaimed Philibert who looked ready to  stamp with fuiy upon the poor injured creature at his  feet   The butterfly never stung you it has no sting  said Sydney   I got stung in catching it Philibert replied   That was surely no fault of the butterfly it never  asked or wished you to meddle with it observed Syd  ney with a smile  Philibert was in no mood to bear even the mildest joke   Ill not have you laughing at me he cried fiercely   and why should you dare to interfere if I choose to  smash all the butterflies in the world So saying  Philibert stamped his cruel foot upon the helpless crea  ture and killed it   Its too bad to torment or kill any of Gods crea  tures just because they are weak and cant defend them  selves ciied Sydney whose gentle and generous spirit  always rose against wanton cruelty My mother says   I dont care a straw what your mother says and 1  wont have you lecturing me a little wretched puny  creature that you are cried Philibert all the more ex  cited with passion from Friskets having given him a  second sharp rap this time across the bridge of his nose   I am your guest Philibert Philimore said the in  dignant Sydney who would never himself have insulted  any one while on a visit to his home   I know that well enough retorted Philibert hold  ing his nose and half dancing with pain glad enough  you are to come from your smoky den of a house and  get our good roast beef and plumpudding instead of  endless codliver oil  The insolent taunt stung Sydney to the quick had  his mother been at her home to receive him he would  have asked the squire to let him instantly return thither  but her absence in Scotland tied him as it were to the  dwelling of the meanspirited inhospitable boy who  loved thus to insult his guest Sydneys heart seemed  to rise into his throat and it was certainly no feeling of  fear that prevented his returning the taunt with a blow  But Sydney remembered that Ae that ruleth his spirit  is greater than he that taketh a city and restraining  himself from uttering even a retort he turned from the  squires spoiled son and went off into the shade of the  wood Sydney could not have trusted himself at that  moment to utter a single wotd  Few things calm a troubled spirit so much as a quiet  saunter amongst green trees and the other fair objects of  nature Sydneys anger had been very hot but it soon  cooled down when he found himself alone under the  spreading beeches All was so peaceful and beautiful  there A sense of wrong however rested on the mind  of the boy Sydney remembered how hard he had tried  to make Philibert happy how he had given to him  what his own dear mother would have valued so much  how he had been as kind and thoughtful towards the  squires son as if he had been his own brother It is  hard to bear rudeness under any circumstances but  doubly hard when it comes in return for unselfish kind  ness Sydney as he sauntered along the mossy wood  land path hummed to himself one of his mothers  favourite songs which had been written by Shake  speare   Blow blow thou winter wind  Thou art not so unkind  As mans ingratitude  Thy tooth is not so keen  Because thou art not seen  Although thy breath be rude  Heighho sing heighho unto the green holly  Most friendship is feigning most loving mere folly  Then heighho the holly I  This life is most jolly   Freeze freeze thou bitter sky  Thou dost not bite so nigh  As benefits forgot  Though thou the waters warp  Thy sting is not so sharp  As friend remembered not  Heighho sing heighho unto the green holly  Moat friendship is feigning most loving mere folly  Then heighho the holly  This life is most jolly  Sydney was just finishing the last line of Shake  speares song when he saw something on the path before  him which attracted his attention It was neither  forestflower nor lichen nor curious insect It was a  pretty little pearl brooch which had been a birthday  present to Philibert and which the squires son con  stantly used to fasten his collar   Ah theres Philiberts brooch the jewel that he  is so proud of wearing exclaimed Sydney aloud as he  picked it up from the moss in which it was lying em  bedded He must have dropped it while he was hunt  ing for the antlion here in the wood Well if he loses  it he gets what he deserves I dont see why I should  take the brooch to such a thankless illtempered boy  let it lie there till he find it Im sure I dont care if he  never does Sydney dropped the jewel on the moss  walked two or three paces from the spot and then paused  Am I doing what is right he said still speaking  aloud little dreaming that any one could hear him   Am I not showing a spirit of mean revenge and act  ing as I would 710 like another to act towards me  No no I must forgive as I would wish to be forgiven  myself Ill take tlie brooch to Pliilibert directly lie  may now be in trouble from its loss  Again Sydney stooped and picked up the jewel but  as he raised himself what was his astonishment at be  holding poised upon a long curling fernleaf the most  beautiful little creature that ever had met his gaze  8YDNEY FINDS THE BKOOCiJ  There was Frisket herself with her fluttering gossamer  robe her tiny wand her transparent wings and th  golden feEissel which she had just pulled hanging from  her bright girdle In his start of delighted surprise  Sydney again dropped the brooch   Child of earth said the musical voice of the fairy   well may you gaze with surprise upon her whose form  was never before visible to one of your race I have  twice seen your triumph over self your pity for the poor  your obedience to your mother and now your generous  forgiveness towards one who so little deserves it I have  watched your control over your temper your watch over  your lips your compassion for the helpless and weak  You have made me break my firm resolve never to show  myself to one of the race of mankind I thank you for  pleading for my poor little guest I thank you for show  ing that mercy which seems so little natural to the human  species  Confused blushing scarcely knowing how to answer  so singular an address from the bright little being be  fore him Sydney replied to Frisket I am very glad  indeed lady fairy if I have done anything to please you  But I think that there must be some mistake I could not  show mercy to a fairy I can hardly suppose that any  friend of yours could ever need my help or my jleading   No indeed replied the smiling Frisket who was  amused at such an idea no fairy friend would ever  require aid from any poor mortal But a fairys guest  might and did tle poor butterfly crushed by your  cruel companion was on her way to visit me by special  invitation I have summoned all the butterflies and  moths that haunt the garden and pleasuregrounds of  Fairydell Hall to meet me at Violet Dell a retired spot  in this wood They will there recite their own deeds  whether as caterpillar grub or winged creature and  give an account of their labours in providing homes for  their future offspring I have promised to the insect  that shall be found to excel the rest in industry and  skill that as a reward I will tip her wings with gold  I will then feast all my guests upon honeydew and  dance with them a round in the air under the sunshiny  sky   What a pretty sight it will be exclaimed Sydney  to whom this butteiflies ball with a fairy for hostess  seemed something delightful and strange   Would you like to see it asked Frisket   Oh above all things cried Sydney   Then you shall take the place of my poor little  favourite said Frisket and for one hour animate the  beautiful form out of which that cruel boy stamped the  innocent life  Sydney began to consider whether he would wish to  accept the unexpected offer of the fairy It might be  well to see or to sing about a butterflys ball and a  grasshoppers feast but to enjoy an insects pleasure at  the risk of sharing that insects fate would be quite a  different thing Fairy Frisket was however too quick  in her movements to allow much time for reflection  Sydney merely caught a glimpse of her fluttering robe  as she flew towards him pomatum in hand and before he  could utter a word a word in human language I mean   down dropped his form on the moss and fern where  it lay for an houi under a tree wrapped in the deepest  slumber At the same moment the poor butterfly which  Philibert had crushed suddenly spread its bruised and  injured wings animated by the mind of the boy The  insect flew towards a retired space in the wood all sur  rounded by hawthorn holly and larches garlanded by  wild roses and blackberry sprays and carpeted with moss  so green that any one acquainted with the tastes of  fairies must have guessed that it was one of their  favourite haunts So thick was the brushwood so  tangled the foliage that the clearing in the wood was as  much shut out from the view of man as if it had been  fenced round with marble walls No human foot had  ever left its print upon that soft carpet of moss In  springtime the air of the fairy dell had been fragrant  with violets from which Frisket had given it its name  the violets had long ago faded but pretty little pinlc  convolvuli tinted the ground and the tall purple fox  glove shook its speckled bells osrer the grass In spring  the nightingale had sung all night long from a hazel  bush while fairies danced to his music the nightingale  had long been silent but the squirrel leaped from bough  to bough and cracked the nuts of the hazel and the  robin hopped lightly on the spray and uttered ever and  anon that cheerful note which would be heard even when  winter should have come to strip the trees of their  foliage A little bubbling runlet of water very shallow  and very clear flowed through Violet Dell singing its  own soft song making the moss still greener and kissing  the pretty wild flowers that trembled over its brim The  spot was quiet and lovely well suited for a fairy queen  to hold her court in when she called around her the  brightwinged creatures of the air It was such a spot  as Shakespeare may have had in his minds eye when  he wrote his wellknown song   I know a bank whereon the wildthyme blows  Where oxlip and the nodding violet grows  There sleeps the fairy queen there sleeps some times o the nights  Lulled in their flowers with dances and delights  CHAPTER XY  BUTTERFLIES MEETING  H this is delightful this is enchanting cried  Sydney Pierce in butteifly language about  which hangs the same mystery as about that  of the ant None of the Lepidoptera species  such is the long name given to the race of butterflies  and moths except the deathshead moth is I believe  known to utter any sound which human beings would  call a voice Butterflies do not roar or bark or bray  or mew they neither screech nor sing but we may  suppose that like our friends the ants the fourwinged  Lepidoptera have some way of speaking to each other  with their quivering antennae  It was indeed very delightful to Sydney upon that  bright morning in August to be able to spread wings  to the light breeze and to bask in the glowing sunshine  Who that can imagine the pleasure enjoyed by a butter  fly during a life which is sometimes measured but by  hours would wish to shorten that little span of delight  It had been amusing to Sydney to find himself in the  shape of a pismire able to enter and to explore a dark  anthill But how much greater was his enjoyment  now when he rose aloft in the air and joined the gay  throng of Lepidoptera that were hurrying from all quar  ters to join the fete given by Fairy Frisket 1  Near the little sparkling stream the fairy sat on her  mossy throne to receive her guests The throne was  bedecked with every variety of wild flower that could  be found in wood hedge or mead at that season  every one of them spangled and tasselled with dew  drops that sparkled like manycoloured jewels A rose  beetle beautiful insect like a great emerald in his  armour of glossy green had crept to the place to act  as the fairys footstool he feared not the pressure of  her light foot Fairy Knowabit sat at his sisters side  to assist her judgment and Sydney saw with pleasure  the familiar form of his acquaintance the learned fay  But even Knowabit had come to the butterflies feast in  brighter garb than that in which Sydney had seen him  when the home of the fairy was the large rededged  book in Squire Philimores study A gossamer robe of  light green half covered Knowabit s students gown  though of course the robe being thinner than gauze it  was easy to see through it every fold of the garment  beneath it A tiny white plume of thistledown adorned  the fairys black cap and being stuck on one side of  it gave him quite a dashing appearance  What an assemblage of butterflies came fluttering  through the air at the call of Fairy Frisket Sydney  had had no idea that there were so many kinds of  winged creatures in England as appeared now in Violet  Dell Some indeed came from various counties and  except on such an extraordinary occasion as this would  not have been found together But a meeting of the  Lepidoptera held by a fairy is not a thing that happens  every day or even every year  There were the fritillaries the silverwashed with  the under side of its burnished green wings streaked with  silver and the pearl bordered fritillary ornamented  with delicate spots like the gems of the sea The  brimstone and clouded yellow butterflies appeared gor  geous in orange and gold looking all the gayer by their  contrast to the smaller tawny heath butterflies that had  fluttered to Violet Dell from their home on the nearest  common A host of little blue butterflies appeared  seeming to the fancy of Sydney like moving azure  blossoms There were the chalkhill blue the pretty  holly blue and the dear little Bedford blue the tiniest  of British butterflies From the top of an oaktree  came down in stately majesty the purple emperor and  the pretty paintedlady followed close behind him The  handsome cabbagebutterflies the white greenveined  and orangetipped left the squires kitchengarden to  appear at the court of the fairy There Sydney beheld  the magnificent peacockbutterfly with large eyelike spots  on its wings and the beautiful dappled tortoiseshell  throwing into the shade the tribe of modest little brown  skippers which some think to be connecting links between  butterflies and moths Moths be it known a genus  called by the learned Phalaena may be known from their  butterfly brothers and sisters by having no little knobs at  the end of their feelers These little knobs like the but  tons of Chinese mandarins serve to distinguish the more  dignified butterfly from the more lowly moth It would be  a great mistake to suppose that all moths are graytinted  dull little creatures or all butterflies splendid and gay  SOME OF THE VISITORS TO VIOLET DELL  One of Fairy Friskets most splendid guests was the  red admiral that to grace her feast appeared long  before his usual season his rich dark wings streaked  with broad bands of red and white Of course there  BUTTERFLY AND MOTH  were plenty of white butterflies whose appearance is  familiar to every one who has lived in the country  but Sydney had never seen before one yellow and black  flutterer large in size and very peculiar in shape her  hinder wings seeming to be lengthened into tails from   It must have been owing to a fairy spell that such a variety of the Lepidoptera  species appeared in the month of August Some butterflies have both a spring and an  autumn brood The copper butterfly it is said has three broods in the year But  my young readers unless specially invited by Fairy Frisket must not expect to find  all of her guests in any one month of the year any more than in any one county of  England The brimstone butterfly for instance though common in the south of  England is not frequent in the midland counties It is found in gardens and flelds  sometimes on a sunny morning as early as February or March  which no doubt the handsome swallowtail butterfly has  been given its name  With the butterflies came a vast host of moths  Sydney saw the  goldtailed moth  and the small  ermine moth  whose larvae so  destroy the  beauty of our  hawthorn trees  in the summer  Then came the  lackey moth  whose caterpillar had worn so gay a livery of blue yellow  and white With these appeared the small gray and  gieen oakmoth and the beautiful tigermoth in robes  of scarlet white and brown the creature that in its  caterpillar state is so very well known by the name of  woolly bear It is strange that a creeping bear should  thus change into a winged tiger  But I must not linger now to describe all the butter  flies and moths or even to name them Sydney wished  that as in parties given by the human race there were  some one to announce each guest by name on his or her  first arrival The little hour during which the power  of the fancy pomatum lasted was not nearly long  enough to enable Sydney to hear all the speeches  made by various members of the gay meeting I shall  but give the few which he heard with curiosity and  amusement as one by one the butterflies and noths  preferred their claims to the prize offered to them by  the fairy  First came the coarse stout goatmoth which brushed  hastily past butterfly Sydney leaving a veiy disagree  able odour behind her The manner of the goatmoth  was forward and bold she seemed to think that she  had a right to speak before every one else perhaps on  account of her age for she had been a larva caterpillar  for three whole years before she had become a moth  This is a very long life for an insect and had given the  goatmoth an opportunity of doing a great deal of cater  pillar work  Ive just come from my home in the old willow  tree cried the goatmoth and I wish lady faiiy  that you had chosen some better hour for your meeting  for every one who knows my habits is aware that I hate  flying about by daylight 1   I am sorry to have put you to inconvenience lady  Goatmoth said Fairy Frisket politely as she bent  down her head over a leaf of sweetbrier which was to  her what a scentbottle and a fan are to a lady The  pretty fairy was too wellmannered to express what she  felt but she wished that the goatmoth would say her  say quickly and fly back again as fast as she chose to  her old willowtree  I have little doubt that I shall both win your  favour and gain your prize continued the goatmoth  coming much nearer to the fairy than was at all plea  sant to a being possessing such a delicate sense of smell   Ive famous jaws that is I had when I was a larva   and theres not one of the Lepidoptera that better  knew how to use them The goatmoth looked proudly  around her as she spoke as if to defy the whole host of  butterflies and moths to match her exploits If you  fly to my old home lady fairy youll see how Ive  tunnelled and bored making passages for myself now  just under the bark now right inwards to the very heart  of the tree I should not wonder the goatmoth went  on if the very next gale blew the willow right down   Ive so weakened it with my boring and then I  may boast that a single caterpillar has laid a tree low in  the dust  A murmur of surprise was heard through the assembly  of butterflies and moths   I was not only clever in digging and boring said  the goatmoth but skilled in housemaking also I  wish that I could have carried hither my curious cocoon  but Ive not half the strength now as a moth that I  had when I was a caterpillar I fonned my cocoons  I had more than one of woodchips of various sizes  nicely fastened together upon a silken framework You  observe that my boring in wood supplied me with plen  tiful store of building materials besides the elegant silk  with which nature had furnished me in common with  many other caterpillars   I have had the pleasure of seeing one of your in  genious cocoons lady Goatmoth said Fairy Frisket   it was so large that if cut in twain I could have used  it for two footbaths This was the fairys way of de  scribing the size of a cocoon about two inches long for  not being learned like her brother the fairy knew  nothing of the terms of measurement used by mankind   I am glad that you have seen it cried the goat  moth I hope that you noticed its beauty  To own the truth replied Fairy Frisket the  cocoon appeared to me to be rather rough as if it were  made of sawdust   But the inside the inside cried the goatmoth  nothing can be smoother and neater than it was I  polished it up to the highest degree and then took a  long nap in it during the winter lying as snugly in my  wooden cocoon as any bee in her waxen cell  Knowabit who till now had been silent though  looking as he always did very wise grave and atten  tive here put in a word I may be mistaken he  observed but I think that our clever friend here the  lady Goatmoth has been mentioned in ancient books  and that her larva is the famous Cossus or treegrub  that was well known to the Romans  The antennae of the goatmoth quivered with pride  and she looked as conceited and saucy as a moth could  possibly look Her deeds were then recorded in books   and by Romans She knew not what Romans might  be but supposed that they were probably some race of  gigantic men ad fairies never publish any kind of  works and though some insects eat books none have  ever yet been known to write any  And what did the Romans say of my distinguished  ancestors asked the goatmoth proudly   They said that they were good eating replied  Knowabit  Fairy Frisket polite as she was could hardly refrain  from laughing as the poor goatmoth dropped her wings  in sudden mortification at an answer so unexpected It  seemed no great honour or pleasure to be eaten by  Romans whatever they might be  Knowabit to comfort the poor insect to whose  pride he had given so sudden a fall observed   The larva of the goatmoth is I know very remark  able for its prodigious strength which allowing for the  vast difference between their sizes is far greater than  that of the most powerful man Members of the human  race often pride themselves on their strength of body  they each possess about five hundred and twentynine  muscles or organs of motion by which they turn them  selves lift burdens bend rise walk and work do what  soever ihey will But you  Madam Moth in your larva  state were possessed of more  than four thousand muscles  and could by means of V X VF  them if I mistake not raise f U W  with ease a weight more  than ten times greater than  your own  That is wonderful  exclaimed butterfly Sydney  It would puzzle one to find  a man who could easily carry on his back ten other men  as heavy as himself   Were it not taking up too much of the time of this  honourable assembly cried the goatmoth I should  like to prove to them how great was my strength by  relating an adventure which befell me this very year  when I had the misfortune to fall into the hands of  cruel man  Is it possible that after falling into the hands of  man you should live to tell of your adventure ex  claimed Fairy Frisket   No thanks to him said the goatmoth I owed  my escape not to mans mercy but to that prodigious  Strength to which the honourable and learned fairy  on your right hand did me the honour just now to  allude   Let us hear the story of a caterpillar s adventures  madam said Knowabit and though as it seemed to  Sydney some of the butterflies shook their wings im  patiently being more eager to tell their own stories  than to listen to that of the goatmoth no one ven  tured to object and the stout sturdy insect thus told  her tale  CHAPTER XVI  ADVENTURES OF A CATERPILLAR  W WILL not long detain you I see that some of my  hearers are a little impatient with an account  of my tunnelling and boring in my favourite old  willowtree One day last spring as I was  making my way through a bit of the timber  particularly tough and hard I was startled by a horrible  noise and a sudden shock which sent such a thrill through  my frame as I could never forget were I to live as I  know that I shall not for three more summers and win  ters A very little time passed and then again came  that terrible sound the whole tree seemed to quiver and  shake and then suddenly the daylight the unwelcome  daylight which I shun flashed upon me Some being  of the human race was cutting down with a bright sharp  instrument a branch from the tree in which I was  dwelling  It was the first time that I had ever seen a man and  certainly he looked to me a horrible monster while he  seemed to think not much better of me   Heres an ugly grub he observed thats eating  its way right into the wood I wonder now what they  call it Ill take it home and keep it My boy is coming  from London tomorrow and hes curious about all these  strange kinds of creatures maybe hell like to examine  this one Ill put it by in the little drawer of my  table  So the man carried me home I think that I can feel  now the pressure of his horrid hard rough fingers Hap  pily for me my captor had not far to go for the willow  grew hard by his home and he wanted to keep not  to kill me I was soon shut up in darkness quite  securely as he supposed in his dealwood drawer   Ha ha laughed I to myself heres a fine wide  tunnel that man has bored and very neatly he has done  it Theres plenty of room for me to turn myself here  But if that blundering fellow thinks that he can keep  the freebom caterpillar of a goatmoth his prisoner here  hell find he is very much mistaken  So feeling quite at home at that kind of labour I set  to work with my good strong jaws at the side of the  drawer in which I was confined The wood was harder  than that of my willow but what cared I for that  My muscles were strong my spirit was bold before  night was over I had gnawed my way right through the  side of the drawer and when the daylight dawned I was  crawling down what the man had called a table I might  have thought it the stem of a sapling tree but that it  had neither sap within it nor bark upon it  It now appeared to me that all my worst troubles  were yet to come I suppose that I was in one of mans  dwellings I dont know whether he calls it a cocoon  but if a cocoon it be it is one of prodigious size and it  puzzled even the grub of a goatmoth to know how to  make her way out of it  As I was wondering in which direction I should turn  to my horror in came my human enemy and almost put  his foot upon me as I was crawling over the floor   Why if that caterpillar has not eaten its way out  he exclaimed What jaws the ugly creature must  have But Ill put it into a tumbler it cant bite  through glass Ill be bound  Again he took up his unlucky prisoner and writhe  and twist as I might I could not escape from those  dreaded fingers which held me so firmly I was dropped  into a bright kind of cocoon that looked as if made of  pure water for I was able to see right through it it did  not shade me at all from the daylight as my dear old  willow had done But this was by no means the worst  of it This tumbler was a hundred times harder than  any wood that I ever had met with In vain I tried to  bite the smooth slippery surface the man had spoken  txo truly not even the grub of a goatmoth could make  its way through what he had called glass  Im a lost caterpillar sighed I as I lay at the  bottom of the tumbler quite worn out with my fruitless  efforts But I did not lie long inactive in my prison   Up and be doing never despair is the motto of the  goatmoth larva I am not only strong to bite I said  to myself I am also clever to spin I can not only  bore a tunnel through wood I can make a ladder of silk  Gaining new vigour and courage from hope I instantly  set to work I found to my joy that though my jaws  could make no mark upon glass yet that my gummy  silk would stick to its surface Bravely I went on with  my labour and before very long my strong wedgeshaped  head was peeping over the edge of the tumbler   How shall I descend now thought I I must let  myself down as I helped myself up by a silken ladder  I might have saved myself the trouble of thinking for  the man my tormentor at that moment caught sight  of his active prisoner   Why if this lively caterpillar isnt making its es  cape again he exclaimed The creature seems re  solved to get off one way or another but Im more than  a match for a giub though I never saw the like of this  one  So saying my tormentor knocked me down again to  the bottom of my glass cocoon or prison and then  suddenly turned it over giving me another tumble in  the tumbler on the hard surface of what I heard the  man call a plate The hard sUppery shining glass  now shut me in above as well as all around so that  there could be no possible use in climbing Below me  was the plate just as hard as the glass so that there  was not any weak point which I could attack with my  jaws   Now 111 put a good heavy book on the tumbler to  keep it down said the man and my ugly grub will  be kept as secure as if locked up in an iron safe while I  go to meet my boy at the railwaystation  I layrery still in my shining prison till the man had  quitted the place Notwithstanding my fatigue my dis  appointments and my bruises neither my courage nor  my strength had failed me yet As soon as I felt sure  of not being observed I crept round the edge of the glass  trying to find any place where it did not quite touch the  plate so that I might see some opening be it ever so  small into which I might squeeze my hard wedgeshaped  head Happily for me just in one part there was either  a trifling sinking in the plate or a trifling rise in the  glass for the two did not exactly fit the one to the  other and air from without came through Here was  an opportunity not to be lost by the grub of a goat  moth Now were my four thousand muscles to be  brought into play The glass was moderately heavy  the book was tremendously heavy but I was strong  bold and determined and I knew that my liberty if  not my life depended upon the success of the eflTort  which I was making  A fearful effort it was With my head I lifted glass  and book a little then a little more never surely before  had caterpillar attempted so difficult a feat My whole  head was squeezed under my prison at last and where  the head can manage to go the whole body can generally  manage to follow Ha ha I laugh whenever I re  member that day to think how the huge man must have  looked when he came back with his boy to find the glass  tumbler empty with the big book resting upoHn it and  the caterpillar nowhere to be seen  I was pretty well knocked up by the time that I had  drawn my whole length through and I stopped to curl  myself up and rest for a little but I dared not rest long  for I had a great deal of ground to crawl over and I  feared that the man would return before I could hide my  self out of his sight Luckily for me he had left the door  of his great cocoon open for what with gnawing and  spinning and climbing and pushing and lifting and  crawling what seemed to be a terribly long way I had  no strength left as you may believe for any more boring  through wood Much as I dislike the daylight I was  glad enough to find myself once more in the free open  air and not far from my own willowtree How I man  aged to reach it I scarcely can think I would have  given anything then for the wings with which I fly now  that the caterpillar has been changed into the moth  But were I now to fall again into the hands of barbar  ous man as I heartily hope that I never may do I could  not now gnaw my way through the drawer I could not  now spin my ladder of silk I could not now lift both  tumbler and book I could but beat my wings against  the glass in helpless despair Yes I could no longer  perform these feats of strength and of skill which must  have filled the mind of man himself with admiration and  amazement  CHAPTER XVII  BORERS WEAVERS AND LEAFROLLERS  HEN the goatmoth had finished her tale there  was a great clapping not of course of hands  but of wings and then a few seconds of silence  There was not another member of the Lepi  doptera race present that could boast of such  feats of strength and the goatmoth looked proudly  around her as if certain that uo rival would dare to con  tend with her for the prize of the fairy  A very small moth called the wolfmoth had the  courage however to come forward into the middle of the  circle formed by the winged tribes around the floweiy  throne While the most splendid butterflies kept modest  silence the wolfmoth thus addressed Fairy Frisket   If your prize lady fairy said she were ofifered to  the largest and strongest of our race I should certainly  not have taken the trouble to come here to try to win it  I cannot lift up a prison on my head and as for the  number of my muscles I do not believe that the sharpest  eyed mortal would ever attempt to count them But  the prize is offered to the member of the Lepidoptera  race that has shown most skill in making her home  Now if Mrs Goatmoth is a great borer I am a great  borer also if she digs her way into old willowtrees I  make mine through hard deal planks If I am not so  big and so strong as she is my work is all the more  curious   Oh as for boring were all famous for that ex  claimed a whole host of clearwing moths of which some  looked to the eye of Sydney like wasps and some like  gnats though they were neither so that he wondered  to see them at all amongst the Lepidoptera   And so am I so am I cried the pretty leopard  moth waving her feathery antennae and her white wings  delicately speckled with black Look at the squires  fruittrees Ask his gardener what enemy he fears to  find in the wood of his apple walnut and pear trees  We all know how to tunnel and bore and make our  selves snug beneath the rough bark which covers us in  like a wall  It seemed to butterfly Sydney that the smaller the  winged creature might be the more ready it appeared to  answer for itself for a tiny erminemoth was the next to  flutter into the circle  Really it seems to me she said pertly as if all  these ladies clearwmg goat  moth and the ret thought that  there is nothing in the wnrld to  be hiiie but to lore and that to make  holes in live tiees or dead wood hi the  unly woik worthy nf a grub I like tcj  labour in thu light where men can see  me and not to laliour all by myRelfj but  in the society uf hundreds ol companions  We are workers nut in wood but in silk  we vseave thick webs anjnnd lioth trunk  Hand branches of tiees   I have chanced to hear at the Hall  innineniuth observed Fairy Knowabit   that yinn ract have devoured every leaf  nfT some of the hawthorns in the parks and  sijnares of London till the unfortunate  trees were in June as bare as they would be in De  cember  Pray do not address me as erminemoth our race are  accustomed to town life and town manners said the  tiny creature and there we are known by the name of  Iponymeuta Padella And pray let us not be reproached  with eating up the leaves of the May trees Many  mouths make light work The leaves grow again on the  boughs which we have stripped when we take our chry  salis nap and while other trees look dusty and black  with the smoke of London those on which we have  feasted burst out into foliage to enjoy a second spring  Few of the winged tribes have their work so much  noticed by men as ours The whole stem of a May tree  will sometimes be entirely swathed in a robe of grayish  silk in which thousands of the spinning and weaving  Iponymeuta Padella make their abode Man would will  ingly drive us out or smoke us out but ha ha ha our  numbers baffle his powers he may slay the largest  fiercest beasts in creation he may force the horse and  the ox to serve him and do his bidding but the tiny  Iponymeuta Padella keeps her own hawthorntree in the  very midst oi mans greatest city in spite of all his ill  wilL   I hope that I may be allowed to speak for just a  few moments said the pretty little oakmoth as with a  timid air she came forward My work and that of my  sisters does not show  the strength of jaw  possessed by the  borers nor perhaps  the amount of labour  I displayed by the spin  ners of the Lepidop  tera race yet may it  be thought not unwor  thy of the attention  of this great assembly  My friend the choco  late coloured lilac moth  yonder has asked me to  Bjjak for her as well as for  myself as we leafrollers are a  shy modest race not at all accus  tomed to come forward on grand  occasions like this We make  our homes in the leaves of the  Tarious trees after which we are named  rolling these leaves into tents and fasten  ing them together into whatever shape  ijxay Vjest suit us by thread of silk which  we spin The advantage which we find  in this way of housing ourselves is this  our leaf supplies us at once with board  and lodging we live on the leaf while we live in the  leaf we can never know want for we eat the house  which we dwell in Then shyly begging the pardon  of the fairy and all the butterflies and moths for having  detained them so long the oakmoth spread her delicate  leafygreen wings and flew back to the side of her choco  latecoloured friend the moth that rolls up the leaves of  the lilac   Let none despise the art of leafrolling cried the  splendid red admiral butterfly or as the learned call her  the Vanessa Atalanta I and my friend here the  painted lady both choose the same way of foiming a home  for ourselves I have a fancy for nettles and she for the  leaf of the thistle The sting of the nettle alarms not my  bold caterpillar though the human race seem to dread it  and the tough spik thistleleaf yields to the strength of  the ladys powerful larva who bends it at her good plea  sure to form the wall of her dwelling  CHAPTER XVIII  THE LIFE OP A BUTTERFLY  YDNEY had listened with such curiosity and  interest to the accounts given by various in  sects of their way of forming their dwellings  that he had excited the attention of a beautiful  peacockbutterfly that chanced to be near him  If butterflies appear lovely even to the human eye  that cannot distinguish the plumage on their wings from  dust how exquisite did they seem to the microscopic  sight of Sydney As he looked on the wing of the  peacockbutterfly beside him he beheld it covered with  tens of thousands of the most delicate scales one over  lapping another arranged in regular rows and tinted  with the loveliest hues Never had he beheld any  work of human art to be compared for finished beauty  with that bright butterflys wing Perhaps the peacock  was pleased with his look of silent admiration for she  turned to address the stranger   One would fancy she observed that all these  things were new to you yet you would be as dull as a  chrysalis if you did not know already all about boring  spinning and leafrolling  I am afraid that you will think me veiy stupid  indeed lady Peacock returned butterfly Sydney   but I really am not quite sure what a chrysalis is  If an insect could look astonished the butterfly cer  tainly did so as much amazed as you dear reader might  feel if a companion confessed to you that he was not  quite sure what kind of a creature a boy could be The  peacock however only observed It is singular that  you should not know the changes in your own condition  I see that you are a purple emperor one of the noblest  of oui race that soars aloft at noontide above the loftiest  trees so high that it is almost lost to view Perhaps  these bold flights into upper air may have some injurious  eflFeet upon memory I who am of a less aspiring  nature have a clear recollection of all that has ever  happened to me in my changeful life except of course  during my chrysalis slumber I can recall the time  when I was a black caterpillar dotted with white and  armed with long black spines feeding with numbers of  my companions on the leaves of the common nettle   Oh I must have seen you exclaimed Sydney  Pierce who remembered a repulsivelooking caterpillar  just answering to this description a creature from which  he had turned in disgust But who would ever have  thought that that ugly caterpillar I beg your pardon  he cried interrupting himself for he felt that he had  just said something very rude that that black cater  pillar could ever have turned into a butterfly so exceed  ingly lovely  One cannot always judge of  butterfly by caterpillar observed  the peacock goodhumouredly  Seeing the beautiful butterfly so  willing to enter into conversation  Sydney was inclined to ask a few  questions but expressed a fear that  he was preventing her from listen  ing to the speech which the red  admiral at that moment was making   Oh it matters not replied  lady Peacock I know all that  my companion can say her home  like my own when we were caterpillars was amongst  the leaves of the nettle She used to pull those leaves  together and fasten them as well as she might I re  member that she was then of grayishgreen colour with  a yellowish line down each side and her chrysalis was  brownish above and graygreen below and was adorned  with fine golden spots We are connected with each  other the red admiral is called Vanessa Atalanta and I  am Vanessa lo   Very pretty names remarked Sydney but not  very easy to be remembered   It strikes me that your memory is remarkably  weak observed the peacockbutterfly I see that  your wings purple emperor have been cruelly bruised  perhaps the same accident that injured them has dulled  your wit as well as your plumage You are the first  purple emperor with whom I have ever conversed pray  where did you live when you were a caterpillar   I never was a caterpillar in my life exclaimed  Sydney who would have burst out into a roar of  laughter had it been possible for a butterfly to do so  The peacock looked at him in amazement thinking  him doubtless a butterfly out of his wits Where did  you hang when you were a chrysalis she asked with  a little impatience   I dont even know for certain what a chrysalis is  replied Sydney who though ashamed of his ignorance  was in his butterfly form as frank and truthful as he  had been in that of a boy  The peacock jerked her bright wings upwards in  astonishment Sydney fancied that the eyes upon them  flashed brighter in scorn   I wish said the poor purple emperor that you  would tell me what yoit remember instead of asking me  what remember Only I may be preventing your  making your speech and winning the prize from the  fairy   I am not going to make any speech at all said the  peacock There is nothing wonderful about my work  and even if there were I should not care to have my  wings tipped with gold  They are splendid enough already thought Sydney   no fairy touch could improve them   So continued Vanessa lo if you like to listen to  a very simple tale I will tell 3ou what I recollect  though mine is but the common experience of butterflies  I have not like the goatmoth or as we should call her  the Cossus Ligniperda any curious adventures to relate   I should like to hear all that you can tell me of  your childhood I mean your caterpillarhood replied  Sydney who hoped that the power of the fancypoma  tum might last until he had heard from a butterfly her  own account of her early life and education   My first recollection said Vanessa lo is of break  ing my eggshell and finding myself with a number of  little black companions safely cradled in the fold of a  nettleleaf I need hardly say that we quickly set  about eating that being the principal occupation of  every caterpillar I sometimes wonder now at my loss  of appetite a little sip of honey from a fiower is all  that I care for When I was a caterpillar I would eat  up ten times my own weight in a very short time   It is a happy thing observed Sydney that  human beings are not so hungry in proportion to their  size   We were troubled with no cares continued the  peacock Each of us being furnished with sharp little  bristles the very birds would scarcely have wished to  touch us and there being so many of us together our  lives were very sociable and pleasant To our minds  there was no plant on the face of the earth to be com  pared to a nettle We grew fast our race do grow  very fast fourlegged and twolegged creatures do not  increase in size and weight as we do or a kitten would  grow into a cat bigger than the largest waggon that ever  moved along the highroad with whiskers as long as  cornstalks I I never remember being frightened but  once and that was when a donkey came browsing by  the side of the highroad and cropped off a thistle that  was growing quite close to our leafy retreat The only  trouble which I knew at this period of my life was that  of changing my skin   Changing your skin I exclaimed Sydney   Of course I changed it said the butterfly surpiised  at her companions look of wonder Its the most  natiu thing in the world to get out of ones skin   I cant say that I think so observed Sydney   Why I thought that all creatures did so said the  peacock whose knowledge was of course of a very  limited kind Snakes do so as well as caterpillars I  am not quite sure about donkeys and horses but human  beings certainly change their skins   I never heard that before exclaimed Sydney his  wings shaking with mirth   Ive seen a man changing his skin IVe seen it  with my own eyes said Vanessa lo in a very positive  manner for she was rather provoked at the doubt ex  pressed by what she considered to be the most stupid  butterfly in existence A man came close up to the  hedge under which our nettleplant grew and he pulled  oflF the skin from all the upper part of his body ina  twinkling He seemed to have no trouble such as we  have Instead of feeling languid and sickly as we do  as soon as he had thrown off the skin he set to work at  clipping the hedge with the greatest activity and vigour   It was not his skin but his jacket that the man  pulled off cried Sydney extremely diverted at Vanessa  los mistake   I dont know what you mean by a jacket replied  the butterfly rather offended It was an old brown  skin and the new skin under it was whitish with a  brown line on each side The oddest part of the busi  ness was that when the man had done clipping the  hedge he came stooped down picked up his old skin  and put it upon his body again A caterpillar would  have scorned to do such a thing   Caterpillars dont wear jackets murmured Sydney  to himself thinking what strange ridiculous mistakes  may be made both by butterflies and human beings if  they judge of the habits and ways of others only by  their own   When I and my companions had reached our fall  size said Vanessa lo continuing her accoimt we felt  that we had something to do besides eating and so  we began to spin fastening coarse silken threads to the  nettleleaves which we lived in This was of course to  prepare a quiet restingplace in which we might remain  during our chrysalis state I have but a dim recollec  tion of what came over me after I had  finished ray spinning I experienced a  kind of dulness and deadness and then  went to sleep at my ease How long I  remained in this state I know not I  have heard that my colour was green  with golden tints upon it and that I  hung suspended by my tail but all that  I myself can remember is the delight  which I felt this morning when I burst  into new and glorious life 1 No more a  prisoner to earth I soared aloft in the air my home  no longer a nettle my motion no longer wiiggling or  crawling the creeping thing had been given wings  the black spiny caterpillar had become   Dear me 1 exclaimed Sydney awaking suddenly  from his slumber under the tree and rubbing his eyes   here am I down again upon the earth not a butterfly  but a boy It almost seems to me as if I had come  down to a caterpillar state as I cannot rise one yard  from the ground I wish that I could have heard the  end of Madam Peacocks story Im afraid that she will  set down purple emperors as the most uncivil as well as  the most stupid of butterflies Well I have at least  learned one good lesson Not to despise or to dislike  the most common and most ugly of creatures since the  black spiked and spotted caterpillar of the nettle turns  into the glorious peacockbutterfly  CHAPTER XIX  A FRIEND IN NEED  E will now return to Philibert Philimore whom  we left on the lawn in pain and out of temper  ready to quarrel with all the world because  discontented with himself No sooner had  he by his insolence driven Sydney Pierce from  his side than Philibert bitterly repented of his folly  It was not only that he felt dull and dreary when thus  left all alone but that as soon as his pain had lulled and  his passion had time to cool Philibert began to consider  that he had been imkind and unjust and ungrateful too  in his conduct towards Sydney Young Philibert re  membered how aflFectionate and good his companion had  been to him during the preceding day how ready  Sydney had shown himself to give up his own pleasure  his own will how thoughtful he had been of the comfort  of the boy who had now requited his kindness with in  sult Before the visit of Sydney to Fairydell Hall Phili  bert had thought little about anything but what con  cerned his own enjoyment he had been a thoroughly  selfish boy But the constant example of one who con  sidered others and found his pleasure in giving pleasure  had not been without its efiect on the mind of the squires  spoiled son Philibert had learned to believe though he  acted as if he did not remember that   To live for self is to live for sorrow  The wellspent day brings the happy morrow  and he could not now do what was very wrong without  feeling uneasy afterwards  Philibert was now exceedingly lonely and sad Sydney  had gone into the woods and Philibert knew that it  would be no easy matter to find him there and even if  he should find him young Philimore felt that unless he  should ask his companions pardon it could hardly be ex  pected that what had passed would be forgiven and for  gotten  A nobleminded and generoushearted boy in Philiberts  position would have determined to do the wise and right  thing at once by all means in his power show his regret  for his conduct and try as far as he could to make  amends to his friend But Philibert though beginning  to see what was the course of duty had not brave re  solution to follow it He was vexed with himself he  was imhappy he felt not only that he was in trouble  but that he had deserved to be so yet instead of making a  struggle to get out of it agaiu the spoiled boy only sat  down upon a seat at the edge of the lawn and burst into  tears   Why Philibert my little friend what is the matter  said a sweet gentle voice as some one approached him  walking over the closelymown grass Philibert had no  need to look up through his teardimmed eyes to know  who was speaking to him for no one but Angela May  the vicars daughter ever spoke in so loving a tone to  the squires motherless boy If the selfish heart of  Philibert really cared much for any one in the world but  himself it was for her who had more than once soothed  his childish sorrows by speaking to him holy words of  counsel such as he had seldom lieard fiom any lips but  her own  Philibert made no answer to the question of the lady  so Angela came and sat down by his side Taking his little  fat hand in her own and speaking as a kind elder sister  might speak she asked him the cause of his sorrow   Sydney has gone away half sobbed the unhappy  boy   What I back to his home inquired the young lady   No yonder into the wood   Is that all We soon shall find him said Angela  cheerfully Shall you and I go exploring together   I dont want to find him I wont go after him  muttered sulky Philibert  What 1 has Sydney treated you unkindly asked  Angela  Philibert with all his faults was too honourable a  child to say Yes though his pride would not let him  honestly answer No As a kind of halfmeasure he  replied He didnt want me to kill the butterfly that  was no business of his I   And why should you kill it said Angela softly  pressing the hand which she held O dear Philibert  there is so much sorrow and pain in this world that I  could not bear to inflict one needless pang upon one of  180 A FRIEND IN NEED  Gods creatures Let them be happy while they may  and make me glad by seeing them happy Do you not  remember the beautiful promise in the Bible Blessed are  ike merciful for they shall obtain mercy V   I am sorry that I killed the butterfly said Phili  bert in a very low tone   If you tell Sydney that you are sorry why should  not you and he be happy together again   Hes angry with me I jeered him I called him  a bad name I said that I didnt care for his mother  murmured Philibert   Then you will go and frankly ask his forgiveness  said Angela   No I wont I wont ask Sydneys forgiveness  cried Philibert flushing with pride and drawing his hand  away from the gentle clasp of Angelas The squires  son was silly enough to fancy himself above Sydney  Pierce because his own father happened to be much richer  than his companions widowed mother To ask forgive  ness is always humbling to pride and Philibert shrank  from doing so  Dear PhiUbert said his friend I think that I  know something of what is passing in your heart now  for I too have a heart in which wrong thoughts and  proud feelings will often arise and they have given me  more trouble than anything else in the world  Philibert looked up with surprise into the gentle face  of the lady He knew that every one acquainted with  her character spoke of the goodness of the vicar s daugh  ter and he had heard it observed that she was rightly  called ADgela for that she had the temper of an angel  Philibert could hardly believe that she had ever been  troubled by pride or illhumour but when he looked into  her honest blue eyes he could see that she had spoken in  earnest  Yes Philibert I have to pray earnestly to God  to help me to conquer myself my unruly passions  my rebellious will and I have to keep a very close  watch indeed over the enemies within lest they take  me unawares and get the victory over me There is  one thing which I have made a rule always to do  though like yourself I have often felt very unwilling  to do it   And what is that asked Philibert who still could  hardly believe that Angela so good so gentle so kind as  she was could ever really have an inward struggle such  as she spoke of   Whenever I have spoken an unkind or hasty word  I first ask forgiveness of God for we must never forget  that to sin is to displease our Heavenly Father and then  I make it my rule to ask pardon openly of the person  whoever he or she may be whom my word may have  offended   Not if she were a servant said Philibert   If a servant if a schoolchild if a beggar replied  Angela May   I dont believe that you have often to ask pardon at  all said the boy  Not very often of my fellowcreatures answered  the vicars daughter at least not very often since I  was a very young girl The knowledge that my con  science would have no peace that I could not rest till I  had made what amends I could for hasty speaking has  had a wonderful effect in helping me to curb my tongue  and control a temper naturally hasty Now dear Phili  bert let me advise you as a friend to adopt this little  rule of mine When you are convinced that you have  been ungenerous unkind or unjust to any one take the  very first opportunity of frankly asking forgiveness  Philibert looked uneasy and grave I dont think  that I need say anything to Sydney this time he ob  served speaking slowly and after a pause He is such  a goodnatured fellow that I daresay when we meet hell  go on just as if nothing had happened After all it  does not much matter to him whether I say that Im  sorry or not   But it does matter to you dear Philibert and again  the soft hand of Angela rested upon that of the boy   You have owned to me that you have done wrong and  never can true peace be yours till you have made what  amends it is in your power to make Seeing that  Philibert looked undecided the young lady went on   I am reminded of a little incident which happened to  myself when I was a child not so old as you are now  I lost my way in your woods into which I had wandered  to look for nuts I became frightened and anxious for  I knew not in what direction to turn The more I tried  to get out of the thicket the fiirther and further I seemed  to wander into it The ground was moist with recent  rain and the print of my little shoes could be seen on  many parts of the path by which I had come I often  thought of retracing my steps but I was very unwilling  to do so for I knew that I should have many brambles  to repass and I hoped to make some short cut and get  to the edge of the wood by some nearer and pleasanter  way But all my hopes were vain I grew sadly weary  and disheartened the shadows were falling around me  and though I had called out till my voice was hoarse no  one had come to my help I must go back on my  steps after all thought I resolving to do at last what I  ought to have done as soon as I had found that I had  lost my way But I had made up my mind to take the  right course too late I could but track my footsteps  for a few yards before it became too dark for me to see  the prints After trying and failing I sat down in de  spair and cried as if my heart were breaking Darker  and darker grew the night more piercingly chilly the  air and I became very faint with hunger terror and cold  If my friends had not come with torches to seek for  their little lost child in the wood I do not suppose that  I should have lived to see the dawn of the morning  Philibert had listened with interest to Angelas ac  count of her childish adventure not uttering a word  until she had ended it He then observed I like your  story but I dont see that it has anything to do with my  asking Sydneys forgiveness   I have often thought of that evening in the woods  dear boy when having wandered from what I felt to be  the straight way of duty I have found myself in any  doubt as to how I should return to it I seem to hear a  voice in my heart there is such a voice in yours dear  Philibert saying Retrace your steps at once do not  wait till it be too late to do so Especially in this mat  ter of asking forgiveness let us try no roundabout way  Let us never be content with a hope that through the  generous forbearance of one whom we Jiave offended  things will go on again as if nothing had happened Let  us force ourselves however our pride may rebel to own  that we have done wrong The pain of such a confession  is soon over we have probably regained a friend we  have certainly done what is pleasing in the sight of our  Heavenly Father and are likely to enjoy once more that  holy peace of mind which can never be ours while we  have one unrepented sin   Angela I will I will ask Sydney to forgive me I  cned Pliilibert rising from his seat I wish I had  you always with me to tell me what is right I have not  a mother as Sydney Pierce has or pwhaps I should be  more like him  These were lowly words to fall from the lips of the  squires spoiled boy they gladdened the heart of Angela  May and rising she gave Philibert a kiss as loving as  might have been pressed on his cheek by his own mother  had she been living Perhaps it was the pressure of  Angelas hand upon Philibert s shoulder that made his  little collar fall off upon the grass The young lady  stooped and picked it up   I thought observed Angela as she gave it to Phili  bert that your collar was fastened with a little pearl  brooch   Oh yes I hope it is safe exclaimed Philibert in  a tone of alarm  I can see no brooch replied Miss May bending  down and looking to the right and to the left Philibert  fell on his knees to search the grass had been so closely  mown that had the brooch been there he must have  seen it almost directly  Angela examined the boys dress to see if the brooch  had by any chance dropped under the velvet Philibert  shook himself violently in the faint hope that the jewel  might drop out of some fold AH was in vain and the  little boy looked ready again to burst into tears   Oh papa will be bo vexed so dreadfully vexed  exclaimed Philibert He gave me that brooch on my  last birthday as such a very great present for it had been  mammas before she married Papa made me promise  that I would take such care of it and never part with  it all my life long and now IVe lost it Ive lost it  Philibert shook himself violently again but rather from  vexation than from any hope of shaking out the brooch   We must search for it well never despair of finding  it Where have you last been inquired Angela May  In the woods yonder replied Philibert we were  hunting for an antlion We could not find that and Im  afraid that we shall never find such a very little thing  as my pearlbrooch neither   We will try at least to do so said Angela come  and I will help you to search How glad we shall be if  we discover it at last And taking hold of Philiberts  hand the young lady went with him to the wood look  ing carefully about her from side to side as her compan  ion retraced as far as he could remember them the steps  by which he had come  For more than an hour Philibert and Angela thus  searched for the brooch the young lady trying to cheer  and encourage the boy who grew sadly tired and dis  heartened and who but for her would have soon given  up in despair all attempt to find his lost treasure It  was exceedingly inconvenient to Angela to give up so  much of her time She had come to see the gardener of  Fairydell Hall to procure from him some cuttings of rare  plants which the squire had offered to give her and had  intended to hasten back as quickly as she could to wel  come a dear friend from London whom she had not seen  for years and for whom she was procuring the cuttings  But Angela impatient as she felf to return home did  not even let Philibert see that she was in a hurry She  seemed to have nothing to think of but how to comfort  and help the poor little boy This was indeed the piin  cipal reason why Angelas gentle words of advice were  seldom without effect the vicars daughter practised  herself what she preached her counsels and her example  went ever together While Angela was helping Philibert  to search for the jewel that his father might not be dis  pleased by its loss she found an opportunity of dropping  in a few words about that priceless pearl peace of con  science that gift so far more precious than all the gems  to be found in the land or the sea  CHAPTER XX   THE FAIRY 8 MISTAKE  JHE fairys prize had been given her feast of  honeydew had been enjoyed the meeting of  butterflies was over The last bright winged  member of the Lepidoptera had fluttered away  from Violet Dell even the rosebeetle had crept away  from his station at the feet of the fairy But Frisket  still sat on her flowerj throne her goldentipped wand  drooping from the tiny hand which held it The blossoms  in her wreath were beginning to fade but the fairy did  not seem to be inclined to spring up on her glassy wings  to seek for fresher and brighter  It can scarcely be that you are weary my sweet  sister fay said Knowabit who was still by her side   still less can it be that you are sad yet were you a  mortal fair instead of a fairy I might think that you  now were both sad and weary Has the meeting of  butterflies and moths been less well attended than you  had expected It seemed to me after my long seclusion  amongst books as if to a bed of flowers the power of  motion had been given petals being changed into wings  and stamen into antennae till all the air was alive with  beauty Or were you mortified at having to bestow  your prize upon an insect that you favoured less than  the rest   I should certainly have preferred tipping the wings  of the peacockbutterfly with gold replied Fairy Frisket  but I was not at the moment when you addressed  me thinking either of butterflies or moths They give  me no cause for vexation or displeasure Each has her  own place in the world her leaf to roll or her cocoon  to spin she lives works and dies exactly as she was  intended by nature to do I was thinking and I  own thinking sadly of human beings and especially   here there was indignation in the tone of the little  fairy of that wretched selfish creature Philibeit  Philimore   I do not see why my fair sister should trouble her  self especially about him said Knowabit blandly  I cannot endure to see a creature endowed with mind  and all kinds of powers that might make him so grand  and so noble leading such a caterpillar life exclaimed  Frisket springing to her feet and looking as angry as a  pretty little fairy could look as she struck the ground  with her wand Yes I repeat it a caterpillais life  and worse than that for he has not even taken to spin  ning or leafrolling 1 Philibert seems to care for nothing  but eating drinking and amusing himself He is ready  indeed to sting and annoy some caterpillars can do that  also he wantonly killed my purple emperor he insulted  his kind companion he is not only like a creeping  creature but a blackspotted spiny caterpillar in spite  of his blue velvet dress   My dear sister fay said quiet Knowabit smiling  at her angry impatience it is the blackspotted spiny  caterpillar that turns into the Vanessa lo the bright  peacockbutterfly at last   The selfish caterpillar of a boy will never turn into  anything but a selfish caterpillar of a man 1 exclaimed  Fairy Frisket I have done all that I could to rouse  and improve him it is no fault of mine if Philibert re  main the contemptible creature which he is Ive hit  him over the ear over the hand and over the nose with  my stingbrush it only made him roar and stamp Ive  speckled his face Ive stirred his food Ive  Even sober Knowabit could scarcely help bursting  out laughing at his sisters account of her fashion of im  proving a troublesome mortal That may not have  been the best way of managing a boy he observed  you tormented his skin you spoiled his dinner but you  never reached his heart  His heart repeated Frisket more slowly I doubt  whether Philibert has a heart at all and if he has I  dont know how to get at it   Hardly I fear observed Knowabit hearts seem  to be things quite out of the reach of fairies I have  never found the way to Philiberts yet though he and I  so often have met But you sister fairy have never  shown yourself at all to that boy  And never will cried Frisket with petulance at  least never till that caterpillar of a boy shows himself  able to rise a little from his nettleleaf of selfishness and  pride K he did so there is no saying whether But  he never will cried Frisket interrupting herself in the  middle of her sentence  But suppose that Philibert should rise from that  nettleleaf said her brother   Then indeed I would pull my tassel then would I  show myself to a mortal and he should meet the smile and  enjoy the favour and receive the gifts of Fairy Frisket  While this conversation between the fays was going  on in Violet Dell at another part of the wood Angela and  Philibert now thoroughly wearied with the fruitless  search for the brooch were seated on the trunk of a  fallen tree earnestly talking together  I suppose I suppose that I ought to do it said poor  Philibert with a heavy sigh but it will be harder to  confess to papa that I have lost the pearlbrooch than to  beg Sydneys pardon for my rudeness Papa will be not  only vexed but angry for he forbade me ever to wear  that brooch when I played about in the wood   You see dear boy that the good resolutions which  you have been making will be put at once to the proof  said Angela May You have a thorny bit of giound to  go over you have to conquer fear as well as to wrestle  down pride But when you lay your head down on your  pillow tonight how thankful you will be if you can re  member a painful duty performed a victory won over self  I do mean to turn over a new leaf I do mean to try  to be a different boy from what I have been said  Philibert and I will ask for help as you have told me  to ask I hope in time to think of others as you and  Sydney are always doing and be loved as you and he are  But before I go home and confess to papa that I have  lost my pearlbrooch would you mind helping me to  search for it just a little longer Oh how glad I should  be to find it Never will I disobey papa again by wear  ing it in the wood  Tired as she was and very anxious to get back to her  home Angela May would not refuse the request of her  poor young friend The two began again their weari  some search shaking fern leaves examining mosses  looking in likely and unlikely places for the jewel which  Philibert had dropped  Oh theres Sydney exclaimed Philibert suddenly   how I do hate having to ask his forgiveness  Dont delay do the right thing at once or your  resolution may fail you said Angela  Little Philiberts cheek had been pale with weariness  but now it grew red with shame as making a strong  brave eflfort to overcome his dislike to humbling himself  he ran up to his companion while Angela followed more  slowly  Sydney I beg your pardon Ive behaved very  badly I hope youll forgive me 1 gasped Philibert out  of breath less from the effect of running than from the  difficulty which he had in bringing out such a sentence  Oh dont think about that any more dear PhUibert  cried Sydney Pierce in his open frank kindly way   See heres something of yours that Ive found And  he held out the little pearlbrooch  Philibert jumped for joy at the sight he seemed to  be getting back his jewel and his peace of mind together   Oh you dear old fellow I he exclaimed grasping  the hand which Sydney held out with the brooch and  wringing that hand warmly you dont know what a  kindness you have done me I am ten times more sorry  than I was before at having treated you so badly since  you return my evil with good But Im going to try to  be a very different companion to you in ftiture Im going  to try to keep my temper and remember my duty and  forget myself like you and dear Angela May  An exclamation of astonishment burst from the lips of  the young lady who came up to the boys at that moment  an exclamation not caused by her having overheard the  last sentence of Philibert The boy who had glanced  towards her as he spoke struck by the amazement and  admiration expressed in Angelas face followed the di  rection of her eyes and uttered in a loud tone of de  light Oh what a beautiful beautiful fairy  Yes Fairy Frisket had pulled her tassel and Knowa  bit had pulled his and there they appeared in full sight  of three mortals poised on their glassy wings their gossa  mer robes glistening in the sunlight that streamed through  openings between leafy boughs the loveliest little brother  and sister that ever were seen Angela who had never  even heard of Knowabit was of course the most aston  ished of the three spectators but Philibert Philimore the  once spoiled boy was perhaps the happiest of them all as  he listened to the tinkling music of Fairy Friskets address   Philibert Philimore you have learned a lesson and  one has been taught even to a fairy I have learned that  good words may have more power than a stingbrush  kindly deeds than the wand of a fay  Not gilded rod of fairywood  But love content and gratitude  Give sweetest taste to common food  Make everything seem fair and good  Oh that every selfwilled child would try to cast off his  old evil habits as the black larva casts off his dark skin  and would rise to a higher nobler happier existence far  above the nettleleaf of selfishness as from the creep  ing crawling caterpillar springs up into glorious life the  bright winged Vanessa lo  INDEX  AmazonAnts Formica ruescdtM 49  AntLion MyrmaUon formiearitu 106  AphLs 65  BlueBntterflies 142  BrimstoneButterfly 142  CabbageButterfly Pontia brasHca 142  Clearwing Moth 161  Clouded Yellow Butterfly 142  ErmineMoth Fpontmena podella 161  Foraging Ants 72  Fritillaries 141  OoatMoth CoMiM iHjmiperda 147  HeathButterfly 142  Lackey Moth Cliaio eampa neua  tria 146  Leaf rollers 164  Lepidoptera 139  LeopardMoth 161  Negro Ants 51  Paintedlady Butterfly Cynthia ear  dux 142  Peacock Butterfly Vanetsa lo 166  Purple Emperor Butterfly Satvmia  pavonia 167  Pupas 53  Bed Admiral or Admirable Butter  fly Fanssa Italanto 165  Skippers 142  Swallowtail Butterfly Papilio ma  ehaon 146  TigerMoth Ufrta efla 146  Tortoiseshell Butterfly Vanena ter  tica 142  White Ants or Termites 40  WolfMoth 160  WoodAnts or Pismires Formica  rvfa 49  Woolly Bear 146THE 


DWELLERS IN OUR GARDENS: 

THEIR LIVES AND WORKS.  



THE SLOW ONEWHO STAYS 
MUCH AT HOME. 

HE dweller *in our gardens, 
whom we call the  Slow 
One, is, from his very slow 
and measured pace, not only 
easy to be seen when he 
happens to be abroad, but 
from his quiet and secluded 
habits can generally be found at home when he 
is wanted. Some people have described him as 
never going from home, and as carrying his house  

with him on his back at all times ; but we shall show 
that this is a wrong notion, and though by nature 
his body is provided with a comfortable and convenient 
covering, yet he requires a dwelling-place as well as 
other creatures. We shall find that he likes above all 
things a nice little retired nook to live inshady, cool, 
and damp, under the shelter of leaves and branches, or 
on the shady side of a bank, or among stones or tree 
trunksanywhere so that it is secluded, cool, and shady. 
Never, by any chance, is he to be seen taking a walk in 
the glare and warmth of the hot noon-day; but before 
the sun has risen, or not had time to mount up high in 
the heavens, and -when the early dew is still on the 
grass and every flower and leaf moist with it, the Slow 
One may be seen making his way as fast as he can 
crawl towards some juicy lettuce or cabbage leaves, or 
succulent young flowering plant or bed of seedlings, to 
eat his breakfast. There are other times, too, when he 
will venture forth from home ; as, for instance, when a 
shower of rain has just fallen, and made the ground soft 
and damp, and when every leaf and blade of grass is 
dripping with rain-drops, and the sun still hid behind 
rain-cloudsthen he will ail at once unglue himself from 
his tree-trunk, stone, or wall, and raising up his shell, 
poke out his head and stretch out his one great foot, 
and first thrusting up his two tallest horns, and then 
putting out his two smaller oneswill glide forth with 
his usual slow, dignified, and not ungraceful pace, to take 
a second meal. 


 . 


O 

Learned people give the name of  Helix aspersa to 
our slow friend. Helix, because that is the Latin for a coil 
or a screw, and describes the form of his outer covering 
or shell; and aspersa , because of the spottings and 
blotches of darker colour on the whorls or windings of 
it. From the softness of his body, the snailwhom, 
after all, we must call by his most common name some 
timesbelongs to the large class of animals which are 
called Molluscs or Mollusca, from the Latin word mollis , 
soft; and then he has another family name, made up of 
two Greek words, which describe his manner of crawling 
on his stomach as if it were a large foot, so that all 
molluscous animals who crawl in that manner, whether 
on land, or at the bottom of the sea on sea-weeds and 
rocks, are called gastero-poda , or stomach-footed. Like 
most other living creatures, the snail requires air for his 
support, as well as food. If we observe him closely as 
he is crawling abroad, we may perceive a round opening 
come every now and then under the edge of the shell at 
his right side. He is taking air into his lungs ; and air 
is as much needed for the growth of his body, and the 
continuance of his life, as with ourselves. As he eats, 
too, we can see that there is something which he can do 
quickly, like ourselves, since the rapid motion of his mouth 
as he munches his leaves is very perceptible, it being 
provided with a hard and toothed upper jaw. Let us 
notice, too, his delicate and flexible horns, at the tips of 
which are his round eyes, and admire the grace with 
which he bends them this way and that as he crawls, as . 


if to look about him. Small round knobs are these eyes 
of his, without lid or lash, so no wonder that he avoids 
the glare of bright sunshine. But instead of an eyelid to 
shut over them, how easily he can protect his organs of 
sight by drawing the eye with the whole horn into his 
head again at the approach of the slightest danger. With 
what delicate muscles must not this be effected within 
that slender horn ! He has the sense of smellthat we 
are sure of, from his detecting so far off his favourite 
food ; but we know not where are his organs of smell. 
Are they at the tips of the short horns nearer his mouth, 
and do these small knobs at their end act as noses or 
nostrils, or is there all over the body the power of per 
ceiving in the air odoriferous particles, imperceptible to 
our sight and smell, which come from the plants he feeds 
on ? 

It seems to us when he gathers himself so completely 
up into his shell, and fastens himself so closely against 
some smooth surface after a meal, as if he then meant to 
sleep ; but we really know little about it, for it is quite 
certain that while he is so quiet and still something is 
going on very important to the Slow One. Of course he 
is growing all the time, like every other creature, 
nourished by the particular food which is suited to their 
natures; the food adding fresh material to the body, and 
the operation which we call digestion helping to change 
the food into the matter wanted for the building up of 
the body, or for repairing the waste of what is used up 
by the act of living ; and yet something else besides this 


 


goes on within the creature we are describing. As we 
grow our bones grow with us and help to give support 
and strength to our bodies, and make us what we are 
strong and upright creatures, able to move about 
easily and with the soft fleshy parts of our limbs outside 
our hard bones. But with the soft-bodied race to which 
our garden friend belongs, the hard parts most often 
come outside. They answer the same purpose as bones 
in some respects, and serve to protect their tender 
bodies, especially those of the race who inhabit the sea, 
where they are constantly exposed to the buffeting of 
waves and the ebbings and flowings of tides. Like our 
bones, shells are principally composed of lime, but some 
how it seems as if the animals who are covered with 
them had more to do with the making of them than we 
human creatures have to do with the growth of our 
bones. Their shells are made of matter which oozes out 
of their soft bodiespart lime and part a sort of animal 
glue, which hardens into the covering they want outside 
them. 

Our Slow One, therefore, seems to have something to 
do, while apparently idle or asleep, in building up the 
whorled shell which protects him. We have described 
the kind of dwelling places in our gardens that he gene 
rally chooses for a home, and perhaps it is not far from 
such nooks that he may have been born. In a hole in 
the earth, half hid by a stone, perhaps, was dropped by 
its parent, one by one, a bunch of little white eggs, about 
the size of a small pea, and out of each of them in due 


  


 . 


time came a tiny soft creature, with already the beginning 

t 

of a shell upon its almost transparent body. The greater 
part of the body had a tendency from the first to grow in 
a spiral or twisting form, and the shell had the same 
tendency, or rather could not help doing so, as it grew 
in size with the growth of the small creature it was to 
cover and protect. The head could be freed at will 
from the shell envelope, and the foot on which it was to 
crawl, but the upper portion of the body was to be 
always attached to and covered by the shell; and as this 
part of the body grew and was always coiling round in its 
growth the shell too became spiral, and each whorl 
became larger than the one before, as it increased with 
the creatures growth. 

Now the manner in which matter is constantly being 
added, so as to make the shell larger and larger, is a very 
curious affair. Almost all animals belonging to the soft- 
bodied race which are called Molluscs (or Mollusca), 
like the Helix of our gardens, have their bodies 
enveloped in a sort of loose skin, which has been called 
a mantle , because it wraps them round like a cloak or 
mantle. All sea molluscs, such as whelks and peri 
winkles, as well as those which have shells composed of 
two parts, like oysters and mussels, have the same 
envelopes or mantles , and it is round the edges of them 
that are the small pores out of which oozes the matter 
which builds up the shell. It is thus at the edge of the 
opening or mouth of the shell that the fresh matter is con 
stantly added, and it naturally follows the growth of the 


 . 


  


creatures body. While it is in repose, the mantle comes 
up to the very edge of the shells mouth, and a fresh 
little layer of shelly matter is deposited. If we examine 
a shell with a magnifying glass, we can see how small 
furrows or ridges are left outside by these repeated addi 
tions, and we may observe too that more of the animal 
matter comes to the outside, and, drying, makes a kind of 
brown skin, while within the shell it is almost wholly com 
posed of lime, and is kept smooth and polished like marble. 
The glue-like matter may be seen plainly at the edge of 
a young snails shell projecting a little, like a film. The 
limey matter is added within it afterwards, making it serve 
as a mould. This same gluey matter, mixed, perhaps, 
with a little lime, seems to ooze out at all times from the 
body of the creature, and especially from his large 
stomach-foot as he crawls, leaving, as we know, a 
glistening white track behind him at all times; the 
same sticky matter being used for helping to fasten 
himself up against some object when at home. Thus it 
is that the shell always fits the growing creaturenever 
too small or too large, or too tight or too loose, but 
always of the right size and form for covering the coiled- 
up part, and for packing the whole body into when 
needed. Which of us can say the same of any of our 
own clothing ? 

While we are examining the shell, of which we have 
so many specimens at all times in our gardens that we 
forget to admire them, let us notice that it is curiously 
marked by some addition of darker-coloured matter, 


  


 . 


which must have been poured out at certain parts of the 
mantle from time to time, and which following the 
windings of the shell end in making elegant bands of 
spots, or rather blotches, around it; and we may 
also observe that its whole form is most beautiful and 
symmetrical. The coils of the shell, as it has grown, are 
as regular and exact as if following some law or rule, as 
any object made by art. 



No clever artist or mechanic who might take out his 
ingenious tools, his compasses and rulers, and then 
sitting down, open out his learned books on geometry 
and other long-named sciences, and after studying them, 
might make trials and experiments, and calculate and re 
calculate ; even then would not be able to design such 
graceful, pretty, and accurate coils as have been pro 
duced by nature while our garden friend has been 
digesting all his lifes breakfasts ! But, after all, the secret 
of the shape of the shell and its regularity comes from 
the shape of the creature itself, which, if it were taken 
out of its shell and laid straight, would present the strange 
form of a very tall fools-cap, with its long foot and head 
at the bottom. The book about geometry would call it 
an  elongated cone. 


 . 


  


See ! what a strange figure our  Slow One  appears 
when divested of his elegantly formed and close-fitting 
shell garment, and stretched out to his real length ! 
When we cut in half the empty shell of a snail, we shall 
also see how much more delicate and thin were the first 
whorls of it, when the animal was young, 
compared to the very last whorlthe 
body as it grew requiring a thicker and 
thicker covering, while the point of the 
tall cone in our figure shows where was 
the beginning of the coiling, which now 
forms the apex or top of the spire of 
the shell. 

And now let us ask what happens 
when the gardener gets rather savage at 
finding some of his choice lettuces or 
delicate seedlings nearly eaten up one 
morning, and then takes the trouble to 
trace the offender back to his 
hiding place by his silvery 
track? What happens if he 
should ruthlessly tear him from 

his home, and intending to throw him over the garden 
wall fail to do so, and our friend, striking against the top 
most brick of the wall, receives a violent blow, and falling 
down behind some tree is not killed, but stunned, while his 
shell is all crushed and brokenall his lifes work, it would 
seem at first, quite spoiled. The broken edges of shell 
forced in against his tender body, and a piece of shell 











IO 


 . 


gone, so that there, at the back of the last whorl is now 
a terrible hole, letting in the air, and making him feel 
dreadfully uncomfortable, besides altogether spoiling his 
whole appearance. Perhaps he recovers gradually from 
the shockwaits for nightfall, and then crawls home thus 
wounded and maimed; but we rather fancy that he stays 
where he is, fastens himself to the wall which has so 
cruelly injured him, and then and there mends himself! 
No surgeon wanted for himno bandages needed, or 
forceps, or lancet. Friend Helix repairs his own shell. 
He keeps quite still, oozes out more limey and gluey 
matter just where it is wanted (for it would seem as if the 
whole of that envelope called the mantle can produce or 
secrete shell), and the matter dries and hardens; all is 
comfortable once more, and bye-and-bye he can, if he 
like, crawl home to his old nook again. Should you 
meet with him after this dreadful catastrophe, and exa 
mine the traces of the accident, you can just see where 
the shell patch has been put in, but that is all, for it is 
very cleverly done. 

But the gardener is not the only enemy which the snail 
has to dread, since many birds feed on slugs and snails, 
the shells of the latter, be they ever so strong, not always 
protecting them from some of the larger birds. We may 
see even on our garden paths, near some particularly 
large stone which is embedded in the gravel, fragments 
of snail shell, where some thrush or starling has carried a 
snail to knock and crush its shell against the hard surface, 
leaving not a particle of its soft body after the meal; and 


 . II 

we have noticed frequently around some particularly 
large stone on the surface of a common, a circle of frag 
ments of snail shell, showing where birds have often used 
the stone in preparing their dinners; so that the snail, while 
nourishing his own body with his natural vegetable food, 
supplies to other animals their natural foodjust as the 
grass-eating sheep furnishes food for mutton-eating men. 
It is to be so, by a law of nature, and we need not look 
upon it as a terrible or cruel law, but rather one to be 
reverenced and obeyed, though we should try at all times, 
and above all things, to respect and spare life as much 
as it is possible. 

We have said that  Helix aspersa ; likes coolness and 
damp and dislikes warmth, but it is also true that he 
avoids the cold of winter and spends that season in a 
kind of stupor or sleep, taking no food, and never un 
fastening himself from the smooth surface of bark or wall 
or stone to which his shell is attached; and besides 
glueing himself round the edge of his shell to such a 
surface, he also covers the mouth of the shell inside with 
a thin coating of shelly matter, and withdraws still 
farther back into his largest whorl. Perhaps for the sake 
of getting a little warmth from each other, a number of 
his family, on the coming on of cold weather, will fasten 
themselves to the shells of each other, the mouth of one 
shell being made to adhere to the back of the last whorl 
of another until a large ball is formed. What a curious 
sight must it be, when, on some mild, damp morning in 
early spring, the whole assembly of Slow Ones awake from 


    


 . 


their winter sleep, and unpacking themselves from their 
ball, crawl off, each his way, to break his long fast! 

 Helix aspersa  has many relationssome of them 
very like himself, and others only distant cousins, though 
all have several very striking points of resemblance. 



Helix nemoralis. 


 Helix nemoralis, for instance (whose name means 
 of the woods ), who is of a more delicate and 
refined nature, also lives ^sometimes in our gardens, 
where disdaining such common fare as lettuce or 
cabbage leaves, he selects the tender foliage of the 
grape vine for his diet, while, as his name betokens, he 
is also to be found in country hedges, and among the 
moss about the trunks of trees. It is no doubt from the 
delicacy of his food that his shell is more fine in texture, 
.and of a pale yellow or straw colour, elegantly banded 
with brown. 



Helix iiortensis. 


Another, called Helix hortensis (or of the garden), 
may also be found in some of our gardens, and 


 . 


     


is to be distinguished from  nemoralis  by a greater 
number of stripes around the shell, which is finished off 
with a pretty rim at the mouth, while the graceful and 
almost transparent body shows that the creature lives on 
delicate leaves and fruit. Helix arbustorum, or the shrub- 
snail., is also found in some country gardens, especially 
where there are shrubberies and plantations of young- 
trees; and where gardens happen to have ponds in them, 
in which chickweed grows on the surface, or which 
have other fresh-water plants growing in the mud at the 



Helix arbustorum. 

bottomsuch as the pretty water ranunculus, which, 
while it has its roots in the mud, and fennel-like foliage 
under the water, sends up to float on the surface its 
delicate white blossoms and round glossy leaves. When 
this happens, we may be sure to find many shell- 
covered molluscous animals feeding on these plants 
which are near relations to the Helix. The  Lymnea 
stagnalis, for instance, is sure to be there, clinging to 
the stalks or leaves, or swimming on the surface of the 
water, the bottom of his foot serving as a kind of float, 
while his shell and body hang downwards. The shell.  


of this water-snail is more spiral than the land shells, 
while in another variety of fresh-water snails often found 



Lymnea stagnalis. 


in ponds, called the    Planorbis  (which name means 
fiat-round''), the whorls of the shell are wound round 
like a flat coil of rope. In all these creatures the 
cone-shaped part of' the body gets its shell covering, 
while the head and foot can also be drawn at times into 
it for protection and shelter. 



Planorbis corneus. Planorbis contortus. 

Perhaps the Helix thinks the slug or Limax but a sort 
of poor relation, and of a very inferior nature to himself, 



 


crawling about as he does with his long, dark, slimy body 
unprotected by any shell. One of his brother slugs, to 
be sure, does bear upon his back a flat piece of shell, like 
a shield, but this one is of a still coarser nature, and 
instead of feeding on vegetables like his brethren and 
cousins, likes nothing so much as flies and beetles for his 
daily fare. 

And now to return to  Helix aspersa, whose life is 
spent in our gardens, and whose manner of life we have 
described, we have only left to tell that his shell building- 
goes on until his body has attained its full size, and then 
it seems as if he meant to take a little rest, or in other 
words when he stops growing no larger shell is required 
for him. When this time comes, he completes his 
shell with a sort of moulding or cornice round the mouth 
of it, as if to give it a finish and make it strong, and 
having done thisif the gardener and the birds will let 
himlives on to the natural end of his quiet and secluded 
life. And must not we who have been laying bare and 
looking into some of the secrets of that quiet life, feel 
after so examining into his nature and ways more respect 
than we have hitherto been accustomed to feel for a 
creature so often seen and so contemptuously spoken of ? 
and who yet, after all, is gifted with some of the same 
senses as ourselvessight, smell, tasteso that we per 
ceive that it has been intended that he too should enjoy 
life, and that even when he is doing us the greatest 
mischief that he can, is, after all, but living according to 
the nature eiven to him ; while if we are at all inclined 


 

to doubt whether he values his life, and in common 
with all other living creatures, has had given to him a 
desire to preserve it, together with some power of pro 
tecting it from danger, we may 


Give but his horns the slightest touch, 
His self-collecting power is such 
He shrinks into his  shell  with much 
Displeasure. 







 IT. 

THE SPINNER AND WEAVER. 


OR a greater part of the year, espe 
cially during the late autumn months, 
there are to be seen suspended in 
our gardens, among the boughs of 
trees and shrubs, or in the angles of 
gates or doorways, samples of the 
beautiful workmanship of the clever 
Spinner and Weaver, who is sure to 
live there. When the morning sun 
happens to fall on the delicate fabrics, making 
them glisten like spun glass or silver, or when the dew 
has left tiny beads upon them which reflect all the 
colours of the rainbow, or when some early morning 
frost late in autumn has frozen the dew-drops so that 
the whole looks as if carved out of ivory, then it is that 
the texture of these elegant hangings is most easily seen, 
and their wonderful workmanship shown to the greatest 
advantage. But though we may admire them very much, 
we know full well that they are not hung there to adorn 
our gardens and excite our admiration, but are constructed 
to serve a very important purpose in the life of the 



c 



     . 

Spinner and Weaver. For though we may pretend to 
describe them as tapestry hangings, or even call them 
webs, they are, after all, nothing more or less than nets  
wheel-shaped nets, with which the makers of them catch 
the prey on which they live, and which is their natural 
food. We should not look far before finding in the 
centre of one of these nets the maker of it sitting 
patiently awaiting its prey. If the net is a particularly 
large one, we may be sure that the spinner and weaver 
of it is also large, and yet its size, in proportion to the 
circumference of the net, is just as if some human weaver 
had woven a round carpet or rug, whose measurement 
across from one side to the other was twenty or even 
thirty times the length of his own body ; and we may 
remember, too, that the human weaver would be sure to 
have a frame and some sort of machinery to weave his 
web with, while our garden weaver has nothing but his 
own limbs with which to measure and fasten the warp 
and the woof of his web, and, moreover, has been the 
spinner of the thread himself with which it is woven. 
All thistogether with the wonderful accuracy and regu 
larity of the workmanship, and other circumstances which 
we shall have to relate, causes the Spinners and Weavers 
who live in our gardens to be considered the very 
deverest of all the creatures who dwell there. They 
have more of what looks like mind or reason, and some 
thing which seems to pass beyond what we are accus 
tomed to call  the instinct of animals, and seems to 
show that they can plan, and project, and measure, and 


 . 


    


calculate in making their nets, and then end with 
displaying great dexterity and cunning (as we shall see) 
in capturing and securing their prey. 

And now we must tell a story about the name of the 

Spinner and Weaver, which was given to his ancestors 

very long ago. There was, it is said, a young Greek 

girl called Arachne, the daughter of a dyer who lived in 

Ionia, who was greatly renowned for her spinning and 

weavingher father very likely dyeing the wool and flax 

and silk with bright colours, which his daughter after- 

<# 

wards spun and wove. At last the renown which 
Arachne gained for her workmanship made her very vain 
and presumptuous, so that she at length ventured to 
challenge the goddess Minerva to a trial of skill with her. 
Now Minerva happened not only to be the goddess of 
wisdom, but was also the patroness and inventress of all 
sorts of needlework as well as of spinning and weaving, 
and, as might be supposed, was very clever herself, so 
that when she tried her skill with Arachne the latter was 
beaten. So mortified and ashamed was then Arachne 
at this defeat, that she went and hanged herself on a tree 
in her despair, and the goddess in pity at her fate 
changed her into a spider, in which form she was still to 
go on spinning and weaving. 

We thus see how it was that the Spinner and Weaver 
of our gardens was first called Arachne by the Greeks, 
and why his descendants are now called Arachnidce; 
but it may be that this story was invented very long ago 
to account for the cleverness of all the family in spinning 

. 


and weaving, and that the Greeks were so proud of the 
skill of men, that when they saw a tiny creature able to 
spin fine and delicate threads and weave them into beau 
tiful webs, they said in their pride that it could not have 
been so clever if it had not once been a human being, 
and thus they invented the story of Arachne. 

But truth is much more wonderful than any stories, 
and ought to be more interesting to us, so putting all 
such aside, we will see how we can describe the wonder 
fully formed body and still more wonderful powers and 
curious ways and manner of life of the spider, a creature 
whom we all see so often without seeing well, and whom 
instead of admiring for the patient industry with which it 
exercises its skill for the gain of its livelihood and the 
care of its offspring, are too apt to consider in the light 
of a nuisance, all because of those webs of theirs. Do 
they not hang them in the corners of our rooms where 
they catch the dust and look most unseemly, and across 
our window panes where they obstruct the view, and 
from bush to bush in our gardens, so that they come 
across our faces and get entangled in our hair as we pass 
down our paths ? They plague and annoy us, and we 
brush them away with impatience and disgust, and yet 
when we observe these webs and their weavers more 
carefully, and read and learn all that has been observed 
and discovered about them by others, we find that we 
might perhaps spend a life-time in watching and 
examining them, and yet not be able to discover all that 
is puzzling and difficult to understand in the webs them- 


 


selves, and in the lives and ways of the creatures who 
weave them. 

And to begin with the curiously formed body of the 
spider, all the parts of which can only be seen with the 
help of powerful magnifying glasses and microscopes. 
There are, of course, many kinds of spiders, but we will 
confine our description to those we have the best oppor 
tunity of seeing, and more especially to the one who 
generally lives in our gardens and is best known to us. 
We all have seen its round bodyround as a nut; its 
head and eight slender, many-jointed legs, with which it 
runs to and fro upon the threads of its web with the 
grace and agility of a rope-dancer, and which perform 
the part of arms as well as legs, as their owner weaves 
its web and captures its prey. We must use the 
microscope to find out the other parts of the body, such 
as the eight eyes placed on the top of the head ; the 
strong pincers on each side of the mouth, which are not 
unlike the claws of a lobster, and are used as weapons 
in seizing and devouring its prey; and, lastly, the 
spinnerets beneath the bodya number of small bags of 
gluey matter, covered with thousands of minute hairs, 
which are really little tubes, out of which the creature 
squeezes the material for its thread, and which issuing 
from its body like an exceedingly fine spray or shower 
of liquid, becomes dry and firm and elastic on coming 
in contact with the air, and unites together, forming 
one fine thread, which we can just see without the 
help of a magnifying glass. We know that thou


sands of fine fibres of hemp make up a strong rope, and 
that it is all the stronger for being made up of many such 
fine threads or strands, and so it is with the spiders 



transparent rope, which holds together so wonderfully as 
long lines of it are hung from tree to tree and from 
shrub to shrub, and when it is carried round and round 
to form one of the wheel-like webs. The microscope 



shews us the curioits claws at the ends of its fore-legs, 
with which it adjusts the thread as it spins it, and 
which it uses to hold its prey as it binds it round with 


  Spinneret of Spider from a magnified Photograph. 


 . 


bandages of web-thread to secure it. All these parts of 
its bodythe eyes, - claws, pincers, flexible legs, and 
spinneretssupply the small creature with just the instru 
ments wanted for the exercise of its powers. The eight 
eyes help it to see its prey, and escape from danger itself 
in case any bird should attempt to capture it. The 
spinnerets produce all that it wants when the curious 
sense within it which we call instinct sets it to work to 
spread its fly-nets, which hang in the corners of our 
neglected rooms and among the shrubs and trees of our 
garden. The strong pincers, called mandibles , at the 
front of its head, which enable it to clasp its prey, are 
also furnished with little reservoirs of poison, with which 
it can stupify or kill a fly that is too strong for it to 
overcome. 



Head of Spider. 


We wonder at the regularity of the spiders web and at 
the accuracy with which all the circular threads are kept 


"Aperture by which the poison issues.


exactly the same distance apart, and if we watch it when 
weaving we shall see that one fore-leg is employed to 
guide the thread and keep it just the right distance from 
the last thread woven, acting as one of the legs of a pair 
of compasses and a ladys crotchet needle at the same 
time. It is a curious fact about these spiders webs that 
they are made of two kinds of thread, spun, it is sup 
posed, from different spinnerets. The thread used for 
the spokes of the wheel, or warp of the web, is a fine 
elastic, glossy thread, dry to the touch, but the thread 
with which the spider makes its circular woof comes from 
the body sticky and gummy, little globules of gum being 
visible (when magnified) along the thread like tiny beads 
at intervals. 

With this supply of gummy matter, the thread, when 
laid along the spokes, adheres to them, and never seems 
to get detached, and it is likely that the stickiness of it 
helps also to catch and entangle the flies. The spider is very 
careful to keep its web free from dust or dirt, and can be 
seen going over it, very carefully dusting it with its hairy 
feet, like a diligent housemaid. Should by any chance a 
leaf or bit of straw, or chip of wood, fall upon its web 
and get entangled in its meshes, it will instantly issue 
from its private apartment up in the corner, where it is 
accustomed to sit as in a watch-tower, and coming down 
to the intruding object, will carefully disentangle it from 
the web, so as to let it fall to the ground, without a single 
thread being broken or displaced, while if we had tried 


  


to extricate the same object, our clumsy fingers might 
perhaps have caused a large rent iff the web. Very cu 
rious, too, is the manner in which a spider, when a fly is 
once caught, will pack its wings around it, and bandage 
them up with web thread, so as to quite prevent the 
possibility of their being used for escaping. In every 
case the spider, in capturing its prey, stupifies it with a 
drop from its poison bag, and when thus rendered help 
less and insensible, it drags its victim behind it with a 
short thread fastened to it, as a sailor would a boat with 
a towing rope, and thus hauls it into its larder, which is 
always some corner from which it can watch its web. 
Even a butterfly, eight or nine times the captors size, 
will be rolled up in its own wings and rendered as shape 
less as an Egyptian mummy, in order to be portable and 
compact enough for being stowed away for future con 
sumption. One thing is very certain, that a spider must 
eat if it would keep up its stock of material for web 
spinning, since that results from the digestion of its food, 
as does the shell of the snail and the silk of the cater 
pillar. A good meal up in its larder is needed for 
supplying its spinnerets with the matter which forms the 
thread spun from them. The spider must feast one day 
in order that on some future day, in case its web should 
be destroyed by any accident, it may be able to begin its 
work over again. We can easily see spiders catch and 
dispose of their prey, but it is not so easy to detect all 
their methods of web making, and especially how it is 
that they are able to extend long lines of web-thread 


   


 . 


from objects at considerable distances one from another. 
It would seem as if Spiders meant to keep some of their 
doings a secret from us, since they usually construct their 
webs and stretch out their long lines either late in the 
evening or very early in the morning. If we pass down 
a garden path after twilight has come on, we may find a 
spiders line of web come across our face, where we had 
met no such annoyance in the bright daylight, and as we 
walk in the garden in the early morning we may observe 
that many a line has been extended from bushes wide 
apart from each other, and may puzzle ourselves to think 
how these delicate suspension bridges have been formed. 
We may even ask ourselves if the spider, when it wants 
to have a line carried to some particular point at a 
distance, can manage to make friends with some bee or 
butterfly, and get him to carry it across for it as he flies ; 
but no ! we may be certain that the creature has some 
power of its own which enables it to overcome the diffi 
culty. Now all who have studied the ways of spiders are 
agreed in saying that they have the power of ejecting 
their web-thread from their spinnerets to a distance, and 
have fancied that the lines of cobweb we find in our 
gardens have been first sent out by the spiders, and then 
floating on the air have caught to objects and have then 
been used as bridges, and strengthened by additional 
matter by the spiders as they passed along them. This 
may sometimes be the case, but it is also certain that to 
serve its purpose lines are often attached by the spider 
intentio?ially to particular spots or objects at a distance, 


 


and that it means to have them fastened there and no 
where else, so that we are obliged to suppose that a 
spider can send forth a line of web with such force from 
its body that it will adhere to a distant object, or that, 
trusting itself to be supported and carried by a current 
of air, it can dart across to some spot, after first fastening 
a line to the place from which it starts, and then length 
ening and spinning it out as it goes. 

We have seen both these feats performed by some tiny 
house spiders which we had only just extricated from the 
cocoon in which they were hatched. They had been 
laid on a book and then placed on a mantel-piece; and 
before many minutes had elapsed after their entrance 
upon life, they sent up lines of the finest web from their 
spinnerets to the edge of a vase about ten inches high, 
which happened to be near themfirst ejecting the line, 
and then travelling up it and carrying a second line with 
them, and coming back with a third, and so on; up and 
down the little creatures working, until a beautiful band 
of silvery web was formed between the book and vase, 
and then they seemed to rest from their labours and wait 
for prey. There were, however, no flies to be caught, so 
that by-and-by, when the door of the room was opened 
and a current of air set in towards the fire-place, the 
spiders one after another moored themselves to the edge 
of the vase, and launching themselves forth into the air 
like little kites, and lengthening their lines as they went, 
mounted to the ceiling. There it was they knew they 
must weave their webs if they meant to catch flies. 


These new-born spiders were only one-tenth of an inch 
in length, and the length of the web-lines sent up to the 
edge of the vase being quite ten inches long, it proved 
their power of ejecting lines ioo times the length of 
their own bodies, and of fastening them where they wish. 

In every case a spider glues the end of a line that he 
attaches to an object by pressing its spinneret against 
it, and such fastenings when they are magnified show us 
the numerous finer threads of which the lines are com 
posed. 



After we have explained as much as we can about the 
methods of spiders in forming their webs, there is much 
to be discovered by any who may observe them carefully 
at their work, and it is when we make observations for 
ourselves in the ways of such creatures as the usually 
despised spider, that they become to us a source of in 
terest and pleasure. We therefore recommend our readers 
to try to get a sight of a spider in the act of weaving its 
web some damp early morning in autumn, when it is 
about to hang it in an angle of a garden wall, or across 
the corner of a doorway, or between two shrubs. In 
every instance it will be found that an angle is wanted, 
within which the wheel is constructed, so that in the case 
of hanging a web between two shrubs, two long lines are 
first ejected, forming an angle and serving as a frame for 


it. They may then find out for themselves how the 
spinner and weaver manages to get these spokes of his 
wheel cross so exactly in the centre, and be stretched 
from point to point so firmly and yet so lightly, and see 
how cleverly as he runs round with his line he manages 
to keep it at such accurate distances apart, by letting it 
pass over the claw at the end of an outstretched leg, and 
how each time the circular line crosses one of the spokes 
it adheres to itall this and much more may be seen by 
those who give sufficient attention to the ways and doings 
of spiders, and pay respect to the wonderful powers with 
which their Creator has. gifted them. When we cease to 
think of a spider only as an annoyance or a nuisance, 
perhaps then the clever creature will allow us to dis 
cover some of its hitherto undivulged secrets. 

Some of the ingenious methods of the female spider 
for preserving her offspring have already been discovered, 
and are most curious. The time comes in her life 
when she wants to lay her eggs, and of these she lays an 
immense quantity, so that her race may be kept up, in 
spite of the numbers eaten by birds and other larger 
creatures, and for this reason the eggs are to be taken 
great care of, until the germ of life in each shall be ready 
to unfold itself into a young spideror, in other words, 
we may say that the mother spider takes care to place 
her eggs in a place of safety until they are hatched. Will 
it be thought that we are inventing, when we say that the 
careful creature contrives to provide an egg-cup for holding 
her eggs in before she lays them, and that her body is  

famished with a tiny egg-spoon , with which she places 
each egg in its place ? Such, however, is the fact. We 
know that at all times the spider has within her body an 
abundant supply of the material for spinning her fine 
elastic thread, so that when she requires a nice little cup 
or basket for her eggs she has only to spin thread and then 
to weave it. Choosing some sheltered nook for her opera 
tions, she begins the construction of her nest by weaving 
the bottom just as a bird constructs first of all the bottom 
of his nest, and the basket-maker the bottom of his 
basket The spider, while sending out the silken thread 
from her spinnerets, has only to move her body round 
and round, and a nice little mat is formed of the sticky 
web-thread, and then making her round body serve as a 
kind of mould for the nest, she goes on spinning and 
turning round as she spins until sides to the cup are 
raised high enough to hold safely a number of eggs. 
This done, the eggs are laid, each one being carefully 
placed with the help of the kind of spatula , or flat spoon, 
which is attached to the end of her body. This instru 
ment is often called an ovipositor or egg-placer, and in 
some insects is very long, but the spider does not want 
a long one. When the cup is even full to the brim with 
eggs, she still goes on piling them up until as many are 
above the edge as are within the cup, and then com 
mences the weaving of a cover to the egg-cup, and lastly 
she encloses the whole in an envelope of fine web closely 
woven around it, until it becomes like a soft ball of 
silken floss, of a pale yellow, within which the numerous  

eggs are kept dry and warm through the winter. In such 
cocoons may be seen in spring the young spiders already 
hatched at one end and the empty egg shells at the 
other, the former waiting perhaps for suitable weather 
for coming forth and entering on the business of spider 
life; and when not larger than a mustard seed young 
garden spiders will set about weaving tiny wheel-shaped 
webs for the capture of flies still smaller than themselves. 
After laying their eggs, some species of mother spiders 
have no more to do with their young; but others seem 
never to lose sight of their ball of eggs until the young 
ones are hatched, and if they have to change their place 
of abode will carry it about with them; and some others 
seem to take care of and feed their young ones after they 
are hatched, and will let them climb on their backs to 
escape from danger. 

The manner, too, in which some species of garden 
spiders entrap and capture their prey is quite different 
from the one which makes a wheel-shaped web, or from 
the house spider who hangs its gauzy web across the 
comers of our rooms, which are invisible to us until the 
dust settling on them makes them look like dirty bits of 
rag. Some, who are dwellers in our garden, construct 
for themselves long tubes of close-woven web among 
bushy shrubs, spread out wide at the top like a trumpet, 
and carefully secured by lines to the leaves and twigs. 
At the bottom of this, the spider lives watching and 
waiting until some unhappy fly gets entangled up above. 
A sort of vibration passes down the long passage from 


  


the struggles of the fly to escape, when quicker than a 
railway train can dash through a tunnel, the spider darts 
up to seize its prisoners. Other kinds of spiders in our 
gardens live in holes and crannies in walls and trees, 
which they line with web, and only dart out on their 
prey when they come near the mouths of their dens. 
These creatures, called Tegenaria, are very fierce, and 
have very long legs in proportion to the size of their 
bodies, so that one of the kind goes by the name of 
Daddy-long-legs, and is known to most of us by those 
long and graceful legs. It is sometimes said that spiders 
will kill and eat each other, but we like to believe that 
in such cases the victims are captured in honourable 
warfare. A spider, for instance, has been seen to invade 
the web of another, and seat himself in the centre, try 
ing to appropriate it to his own use, and the real owner 
has come outas if in the defence of his castlefight 
and wrestle with the intruder, and after killing him, eat 
him up as if he were a fly. It is also said that the female 
spider will sometimes kill and eat a male spider when 
she does not take a fancy to himthe female being 
much larger and stronger than the malebut we are not 
sure of the truth of such stories, though we are afraid 
that our clever Spinner and Weaver has after all a good 
deal of the nature of a beast of prey. In tropical 
countries species of spiders are found which are nearly 
as large as small birds. The bodies of some are covered 
with soft and glossy brown fur, like the sealskin we* use 
for jackets and gloves. Some of them live in holes in 


 . 


   


the ground, which they line with web and protect with 
a trap door, which opens and shuts with a hinge ; others, 
such as the great Mygale spider, which is not unlike a 
hairy crab, makes its nest in the cavities in the trunks of 
trees, and is said by travellers to prey on newly-hatched 
birds, and even to capture and eat the lovely humming 
birds which flit among the leaves and blossoms, and are 
scarcely larger than itself. Spiders are so often called 
insects that we are apt to forget that they cannot be 
classed with bees, butterflies, and beetles for several 
reasons, but form quite a separate race of creatures. 
The structure of their bodies is unlike in many important 
particulars, and they do not pass through the same 
changes as do all insects, as we shall describe in our next 
 A spider is, in fact, a nearer relation to crabs 
and lobsters than to bees and butterflies. As the spider 
grows larger and larger, it casts its skin many times, and 
each time a new one is ready formed beneath. From 
being at first scarcely so large as a grain of mustard 
seed, the maker of the wheel-shaped webs in our gardens 
sometimes grows to be as large as a small nut. It has 
had the grand name of Epeira diademagiven to it, and 
a grand creature it really seems when grown to its full 
size, as it sits in the centre of its splendid web and 
allows us to examine its form. We see that its back is 
most curiously mottled and spotted with white and 
black, and that it has something like a white cross on 
the top of the back. With an ordinary hand magnifying 
glass we can see the eight bright eyes which form a  


kind of diadem upon the head, and which have given 

the creature its second name. We may also contrive to 

_ _ see under its body the bunch of sfiinne- 

_ rets, from which comes forth the web 

<>  (> ,@> 


material through the fine hair-like tubes 
which are called spinner ides, and can just detect the 
claws at the ends of the legs, which are such useful 


implements in the adjustment of the circular lines of the 
web, or in hauling itself up again after having dropped 
down from a height. Seeing thus its curious body, and 
having learned something of the wonderful powers which 
have been bestowed upon them, we can surely never 
look upon the Spinner and Weaver of our gardens with 
either dislike or contempt, for according to the life that 
was meant to be his, are after all, his seemingly cruel 


ways, as well as his clever works This life begins 
when a little worm furnished with 
sixteen legs comes forth from an egg 
just large enough to hold it, and the 
whole life is spent in feeding on 
the leaves of the plant upon which 
that egg was laid. From being scarcely visible when 
first hatched, the small creature, as it eats, grows so 
rapidly that in twenty-four hours it has increased to 
four times its size when it first left the egg, and it is 
soon large enough for us to see its form and parts. We 
can see that six of its legs are for crawling with, and are 




placed under the fore part of the body, while the other 
ten are only for clasping the leaf on which it feeds, or 
the stems of the plant on which it crawls. It has a 
horny covering on its head, jaws for biting, eyes for 
seeing, and spiracles , or breathing holes, down each side 

D   



















    . 

of its body. Its skin is soft, and adorned with delicate 
stripes or spotssometimes it has fleshy spines, sometimes 
it is hairy, and sometimes the whole body is covered with 
dark brown fur. As it eats and grows larger and larger, it 
requires a new skin to fit its increased size, the old one 
shrivelling up, and the new one appearing beneath. 
Many times in the course of its life is this done, and 
then, having grown to its full size, and as if tired of this 
mode of life, it crawls down the stem of the plant on 
which it has fed, makes its way to some wall, or paling, 
or tree-trunk, and climbs up it to some sheltered cranny 
or corner, there to await a complete change in its form 
and life. At this time the creature begins to exercise in 
a new way the power it has always had of producing 
from its body a silken thread, by which it could let itself 
down from a leaf or twig at will. It now spins fine 
cables of this silk with which to fasten itself in safety to 
the resting-place it has chosen. Unlike the spider, this 
silken thread is spun from its head, and managing 
to pass a belt of it round its body, it fastens the ends of it 
to the wall or paling, or to some twig in a sheltered place, 
so that it cannot be blown off, and with another thread 
suspends itself head downwards. Other creatures of 
its race fasten themselves to the stem, or roll themselves 
up in a leaf of the plants on which they feed, by means 
of these silken threads, so as to make a little cradle or 
nest: others weave together some of the smaller leaves 
of their native plants, and make a sort of cage with web, 
in which they suspend themselves. Others will fasten  


together the ends of some blades of grass, so as to form 
a little tent, in the middle of which they hang themselves 
by a silken threadall these preparations being made for 
the creature passing through a change in its form and 
nature, and ceasing to be what we call a caterpillar. 

LIFE THE SECOND.During this life the soft 
body has acquired a hard skin or case. It is mostly 
dark or shapeless. It no longer eats or moves from its 
place. It has neither eyes nor mouth, for it has no need 
of either, nor has it any feet or claws, 
and the only sign of life it gives is that 
of being able to bend slightly its horny 
case or shell, which at the tail is jointed 
like that of a lobster. It is mostly brown 
or bronze colour, but it has sometimes golden stripes 
upon it, or is wholly gold coloured. Now the Greek 
word for gold is chrusos , and from this it has come that 
the name of chrysalis has been given to this stage 
of the creatures life, which when it crawled about 
and ate, was called a caterpillar. A pitiable sort 
of life would it be if chrysalis-life were allbut better 
times await it. We have said that the chrysalis is 
shapeless, but if we examine it more closely we shall find 
that in the curious angular body slight traces of parts are 
visible. They show that there is something carefully 
packed and folded up within the casesomething which 
is soon to be unpacked and unfolded. Only a little more 
time and a little more warmth, and the changes which 



   


 . 


are going on within the brown or golden case are com 
pleted, and another form of life begins. 

LIFE THE THIRD.The summers hot sun shines 
day after day on the little mummies upon the garden 
wall or paling, or which hang in the tents or little bowers 
formed of the tender leaves or twigs of plants. It has 
ripened, and brought to its most perfect form the life 
now about to begin. The hard and brittle case which 
was its second form splits open like a ripe seed vessel, 
and from it comes out the bright and graceful creature 



we call a butterfly. A creature gifted with eyes to see 
with, antennae to feel with, proboscis to feed itself with, 
legs to crawl with, and four light and lovely wings to fly 
with. When first it comes forth from the coffin-like case 
which held it, the delicate wings are crumpled up and 
shapeless, covered with the damp of its late tomb ; but 
no sooner is it in the soft warm air and free, than the 
life-juices begin to circulate in its veins, and gradually 
the wings are straightened out and spread. From time 
to time a sort of shiver seems to run through the frame 
as this comes about. The long trunk which lay along 
the under part of the body is drawn up, and gently coiled 


 . 


   


into the place for it under the head. It seems but a fine 
thread this proboscis, but it is really a tube, for hence 
forth the life of the creature is to be supported, not by 
eating the leaves of plants, but by sucking up through 
that long tube the honey of flowers. At last the wings 
are expanded to their full size and form. Their delicate 
veinings and pretty markings are to be seen. White or 
yellow, with black spots and veinsred bandsorange 
tipspatches of brown velvetborders of brilliant blue 
scolloped edges and slender points and anglesall 
the beautiful varieties of pattern, colour, and outline, 
according to their kind, are visible. A gentle trembling 
seems to shake the wings, as if the creature were im 
patient for flight; and then a flutter, and at last it 
suddenly mounts into the air, and is gone ! gone to 
enjoy the warm sunshine, the soft air, the enticing flower 
scents, and delicious and delicately-flavoured nectar, now 
out of this flower and now out of thathoneysuckle, 
rose, jasminethrough the live-long day. 

The coming forth of the bright winged butterfly from 
the seemingly lifeless chrysalis has often been looked 
upon as a likeness to the spirit of a human being leaving 
the body at the moment of death; but though the 
manner in which the life of this and every other insect 
passes through such curious changes, is most wonderful 
and most mysterious to us, it does not really help to 
strengthen our hope of an immortal life, since the chry 
salis is not dead, and the butterfly only lives to lay its 
eggs and then die. The ancient Greeks, however, looked . 


upon the butterfly as a type or emblem of the soul, and 
gave it the name of Psyche, which was the Greek word 
for soul or spirit, and at last the emblem of the soul came 
to be represented by them, in painting and sculpture, as 
a beautiful young female with the wings of a butterfly. 



PlERIS BRASSIC/E, OR CABBAGE BUTTERFLY. 


Among the many butterflies which flit about our 
gardens during spring, summer, and autumn, there is not 
one which is so sure to be a dweller there as the species 
whose common English name is the    Cabbage Butter 
fly. Few gardens are there which do not grow cabbages, 
and this creature may be said to be born and bred upon 
cabbage leaves. The strange foreknowledge which we 
call instinct, led the parent butterfly to deposit her eggs 
on the large and succulent cabbage leaves, which, when 
they are hatched, are sure to afford ample food for the 
caterpillar through the whole of its life. It need never 
leave the plant. When one leaf is eaten up all but the 











 . A I 

veins, it has only to move to another, and then go on 
munching again with its horny jaws, which, for the con 
venience of leaf eating, do not move up and down, but 
backwards and forwards sideways, like pincers or shears. 
The egg out of which the caterpillar 
comes is seen when highly magnified 
to be of a most beautiful form, some 
what like a flask or bottle, delicately 
carved with ribs and furrows and 
fretwork. The caterpillar when full- 
grown is a blueish grey colour, with yellow stripes on 
each side, and the whole body is spotted with minute 
black dots, with a white hair in each dot. When we see the 
devastation which can be done to our cabbage plants by 
these caterpillars, and when we hear of the number of eggs 
sometimes laid by one butterfly on a single leaf, we may 
wonder that any cabbages at all are left for human beings 
to eat, but this is easily explained, for caterpillars are the 
chief food of many young birds. When a sparrow, for 
instance, has a nest full of young fledglings crying out 
and gaping for food, it has only to repair to the cabbage 




Chrysalis and Caterpillar of Cabbage Butterfly. 


plants in our own or a neighbours garden, and can at 
ease pick off all it wants of the soft savoury creatures 
that its young require for their nourishment. It is said 
that a parent sparrow will sometimes carry home to its 
nest as many as two thousand caterpillars in one week. 
Insects, too, prey on them, as the ichneumon fly, which 
will lay its eggs in their bodies, and the eggs being 
hatched there, the larva , or fly-grub, will gradually eat 



Vanessa Io (Peacock Butterfly). 


up the body of the caterpillar, who still goes on eating 
until nearly the last spark of life is leftthe grub itself 
taking care to avoid the more vital parts of the cater 
pillar, so that its own food supply may be continued as 
long as possible. When the caterpillar by chance 
escapes being captured by a bird or being preyed on by 
the ichneumon fly, it hangs itself up, head downwards, 
to the garden wall or paling, or to the branch of some 
fruit-tree, and turns to an angular black-spotted chrysalis, 
fastened round the body with a belt of silk. 


 . 


   


The Cabbage Butterfly of our garden, however, is a 
very common and homely looking insect, compared to 
others which live on the honey of our flowers. We have 
there, flitting about in the sunshine through many months 
of the year, first one and then another of some beautiful 
sister butterflies, having the same family name of Va 
nessa, but who are distinguished one from another by 
second names, such as  Io,  Atalanta/  Cardui/ etc., 
and by the English common names of  Peacock/ e Red 
Admiral/  Painted Lady/ and  Tortoiseshell/ etc. 
Most lovely in form and colour are these sisters; their 
wings being not only very elegant in outline, but adorned 
with spots and stripes of blue, black, and white, and with 
bands of red on a velvety ground of rich brown, all three 
somewhat alike and yet very different and easy to be dis 
tinguished one from another. We cannot claim all these 
as natives of our garden, though they are so often seen 
there, for, strange to say, these gay creatures, who are so 
bright and delicate, and might be supposed to have been 
born and bred among our choicest flowers, are really 
natives of some neighbouring bit of common-land or . 
waste ground by the road side. There the caterpillars 
have been hatched from eggs which were laid on the 
leaves of the nettles and thistles which grow in such 
places, and after the caterpillar has fed on these leaves 
until it is ready to take the chrysalis form, they still 
remain on the plant. Constructing themselves little cages 
or tents, partly of the stinging and prickly leaves of the 
plants, and partly of silken webs and threads which draw 


   


rHE DWELLERS IN OUR GARDENS. 


them together, they there undergo the curious change. A 
few weeks is sufficient time for them to pass from the newly- 
hatched caterpillar state to that of the perfect butterfly. 



Chrysalis of Vanessa urtica, or of the Nettled 

When once escaped, however, from the little angular 
mummy-case suspended among the thistle and nettle 
leaves, with their wings ready for flight, and their long 
trunks ready for suctionthen it is that the Vanessa sisters 



Vanessa urtica (Tortoiseshell Butterfly). 



 . 


   


become ours. The road-side nettle has no food that 
will suit their newly-acquired taste for honey, nor has the 
thistle, with its closely packed tuft-like flowers, so they 
come over our garden walls to us. They depend upon 
our flowers, and flitting from one to another, poise upon 
their expanded corollas, and gracefully unfolding their 
coiled-up sucking tubes, dip them down to the nectaries 
of the flower cups and bells. They can get at honey 
which the short proboscis of the bee cannot reach, as 
well as at that which is at the bottom of flower tubes 
too narrow for the entrance of the bees body. Only 
when the time comes for providing for the continuance 
of their beautiful race, do they go back to the nettles of 
the road-side, or the thistles of the common, in order to 
deposit their eggs on the same sort of leaves that in the 
caterpillar form had served for their own nourishment. 
Does some curious remembrance of what their former 
life was, among those nettles and thistles, guide them 
back to them; or do they know that there, among the 
stinging and prickly leaves, their eggs will be safe from 
the disturbance of human hands ? Does some fairy 
whisper to them that there their offspring will be safer 
than among the buds and blossoms that those human 
fingers are so apt to meddle with ? We only fancy this, 
for we know that they are but led by the unerring instinct 
which seems sometimes to guide these small creatures 
more safely and surely than human beings are always 
guided by the reason of which they are so proud. And 
these eggs, which to our unassisted eyes would appear 


   


 . 


only like tiny round beads, when highly magnified are 
found to have most curious and beautiful forms. 

Some of the Vanessa family, however, have still more 
to do with our gardens, since one of these,    Vanessa 
comma so called because of a little mark on the under 
side of its wings like a comma or letter Cwill stay with 
us altogether, and lay its eggs on the leaves of a currant- 



Butterflys Eggs, highly magnified. 


bush or hop-plant, so that we may thus have it through 
all its forms of life when these eggs are hatched. The 
 Vanessa urtica, too, though her second name does 
mean  of the nettle / will at times, when a caterpillar 
come and hang herself by a silken thread beneath the 
coping-stone of a garden wall for the sake of its shelter y 
and  Vanessa cardui, or    of the thistle ,, if she find out 
that we have artichokes in our kitchen gardens, will lay 
her eggs upon its spiked leaves, and the caterpillar, after 














 . 


   


feeding on these, will, when it comes to the time for 
changing into a chrysalis, construct a little tent of them, 
drawing together the smaller leaves with silken cords, so 
as to make a safe shelter, and thus causing the entrance 
into life of the beautiful  Painted Lady   to be within 
the confines of our garden walls. 

Butterflies are not only very beautiful, but are also very 
curious creatures; as we find when we help ourselves 
with the microscope in order to examine them more care 
fully, and from the moment that the caterpillar has left 
the egg there are to be found traces in their structure of 
what we may call a preparation for the perfect form of 
the butterfly, which is little by little arrived at as it grows 
and passes through its first two stages of life. It is no 
wonder that the caterpillar should feed so ravenously, 
since it is nourishing itself in order to provide material 
for the other forms into which its life is to pass. Careful 
naturalists who have dissected and magnified very highly 
the insides of caterpillars have discovered in their bodies 
signs and tokens of what was to be afterwards the 
butterflys wings. In the chrysalis they can see it still 
more plainly. But we need not so much wonder at this, 
because it is what we find in all animal and vegetable 
life and growth. All the forms of life have small be 
ginnings, hid as it were in other forms. From an egg 
the size of a cocoa-nut comes the great ostrichfrom the 
small acorn the mighty oak, with its wide-spread branches, 
its solid trunk, and millions of leaves. Something in the 
egg becomes the future bird, and something in the seed 


    


 . 


becomes the future tree or plant; and in the same way, 
something in the caterpillar becomes the future butterfly. 
Even if we cannot see them, we may be sure that such 
parts as the delicate feelers with the knobs at the end, 
which are probably the organs of scent, as well as the 
long proboscis, are in preparation from the first, though 
neither caterpillar nor chrysalis has need of them; and 
the lovely wings which make the butterfly such a different 
creature to the soft and crawling worm or the shapeless 
chrysalis, are also there, hidden in the caterpillar. Only 
one thing is alike in each of the three forms, since in all 
are found the spiracles, or small breathing-holes, down 
each side of the body, through which the air is inhaled 
which is essential to the continuance of life. 

Like many other insects, butterflies have two large 
eyes on each side of the head, which are fixed and im 
movablenot turning in every direction like our own 
eyes in search of those objects we want to see, nor like 
our eyes in admitting light by one aperture, but composed 
of innumerable little eye-lets , or facets, which perhaps 
reflect objects like tiny mirrors. Such eyes are called 
compound eyes, and no doubt perfectly suit the purposes 
of the butterfly during its short life, when a few flowers 
holding a drop of nectar, and a leaf or two of the right 
sort to lay its eggs on, are all that it has to look out for. 

We must all have noticed that if we attempt to hold a 
butterfly after we have captured it, a fine flaky powder 
comes off on our fingers, which we have perhaps been 
told as children was the feathers of the butterflys wings. 


 . 


   


But this is scarcely the fact, for when highly magnified, 
it is found to be composed of coloured scales, rather 
than feathers. In each variety of butterfly, these scales 
somewhat differ in form or texture, and are found to be 
placed on a gauze-like frame-work, one lying on another 
like tiles on the roof of a house. Those on the under 
side of the wing being often different in form to those on 
the upper side. 



Scales of Butterflys Wings, highly magnified. 


The motion in the wings of butterflies is very different 
from that of birds, from their not moving both wings at 
the same time. They do not rest in the air, nor swoop , 
but flutter up and down in a zig-zag, which manner of 



flight is perhaps a safeguard in some respects from cap 
ture by birds, and enables them to elude their pursuit. 


E 











  


 . 


The slender antennae, or feelers, which every butterfly 
has on its head, are found to be jointed or movable, so 
that they can be bent slightly; but whether asleep or 
awake, they are always erect, and not like those of the 
moth when asleep, bent back over or under the body. 



Head of Vanessa atalanta, or Red Admiral Butterfly, 
showing the two feelers, the large compound eye, and the pro 
boscis unfurled. 

The structure of the proboscis, or trunk of the butterfly, 
is very curious. When the perfect insect first comes out 
from the chrysaliss case, it is extended along the 
stomach, and while the wings are being gradually ex 
panded into their full form and size, it is disengaged and 
rolled up into a spiral coil. It is formed of two long 
blades, each hollowed out in a furrow, and after first one 





 .     

is drawn up and then the other, the two portions are put 
together, and form a double tube most delicately jointed, 
so that when wanted by the creature, it can be gracefully 
uncoiled, and dipped down into a flower, no matter how 
deep its tube or bell may be; and in this respect the 
butterfly has an advantage over the bee, since it is 
enabled, as we have seen, to take possession of honey 
which the short proboscis of the latter has not been able 



Fore-legs of Caterpillar. 



Hind-legs or Claspers. 


to reach, or which lay at the bottom of flower-bells and 
tubes that his body could not get into in order to rifle. 
The six or four slender and jointed legs of the butterfly 
are very different to those of the caterpillar, in whom the 
six fore-feet are furnished with pointed claws, which assist 
it in weaving and adjusting the silken thread which 
comes from its head. After letting itself down by a line, 
to break its fall or escape from capture by birds, it uses 


e   


    


 . 


these to haul itself up again. The other ten legs are 
called clasp ers, their use being to enable the caterpillar 
to cling tightly to the leaf or stem of the plant on which 
it feeds, and when magnified are found to be like suckers,, 
which adhere by means of the air being excluded beneath 
them ; and as the fly can walk on the ceiling by means 
of such suckers at the end of its legs, so can the cater 
pillar hold itself on to the under side of a leaf. When 
it is spinning the silk thread which comes from its head, 
or weaving a web with it, or passing a belt round its 
body when about to change to a chrysalis, these claspers 
hold it securely fixed to some object. 

The casting off of the skin several times in the course 
of the caterpillars life is very curious, and during the 
operation, the creature leaves off eating and looks sick 
and ill, and the old skin shrivels up. When gradually it is 
wriggled off, the new skin beneath appears smoother in- 
texture and brighter in colour than the last, and the 
caterpillar seems altogether larger, as if the new garment 
were not put on before it was wanted. The change of 
skin of the caterpillar is like the moulting of birds, and 
the growth of fresh hair over the bodies of quadrupeds. 

It would seem that in some respects the different 
species of butterflies often differ from each other in 
habits, although belonging to the same family. This is 
especially seen in regard to the manner in which they 
pass the winter, or hybernate. In order that the race of 
each should be continued from year to year, one of the 
forms of their life must last through the cold of our 


 . 


   


winters, and in spite of their love of warmth and sun 
shine, and seeming dependence on flowers, we find that 
it is often the butterfly which survives. When the 
cold days of autumn come on the butterfly will fold up 
its wings one against the other, slip into some crack or 
cranny in a wall, or paling, or tree trunk, and there in a 
state of lethargy or sleep await the return of spring. A 
very fine warm day, even as late as the end of November, 
or beginning of December, will waken up some of them 



from their winter sleep, and entice them out to see if 
such a thing as a honey-holding flower-cup is yet to be 
found. With other species it will be the chrysalis which 
lasts through the winterthe butterfly coming forth from 
it with the earliest sunshine of spring, while some very 
few eggs of the caterpillars will remain on withered 
leaves, or on the stems of plants, and be hatched in 
spring by the same warmth which has brought out the 
young leaves they require for their food. 



   


 . 


We cannot attempt to tell of all the lovely butterflies 
which, during the summer months, will from time to time 
pay visits to our gardens, from their different native 
placesall of them being so free to rove, that no wonder 
they venture sometimes on a little foreign travel. They 
come to us from sweet meadows starred over with butter 
cups and ox-eye daisies, and reddened with spikes of 
flowering sorrelfrom banks where dog-violets hold up 
their blue flowers to the sun, and primroses nestle 



Orange-tip Butterfly. 


among their leaves. They come from fields of clover 
and beansfrom river banks, where reeds and rushes, 
and willow-herb grow so tall, and are all alive with insect 
life. Others come from shady woods and copsesothers 
from heaths covered with ling and purple heather, and 
golden'broom ; and from commons where the luscious- 
scented gorse is flowering, and others from chalky downs 
where the tiny eye-bright and milk-wort and dwarf bed- 
straws grow among the short grass. When we happen to 


 . 


   


know where they come from, they remind ns of these 
sweet native homes of theirs, where they have lived their 
two former lives. They give life and colour to our 
gardens, and cause us pleasant surprises as we find the 
pretty phantoms there among our flowers, and though we 
do not always remember it, they form one of the charms 
of our summer days. We do not quarrel with them, as 
with the snail and spider, because they so please our 


/ 

j 



Chrysalis of Orange-tip placed on bough so as to look like 

part of it. 

eyes j but somehow ,we hold them a little in contempt. We 
think of them as frivolous and thoughtless of the future, 
and consider them unworthy to be compared to the 
careful and provident bee or ant, just when they are lead 
ing the life they were created to live, and doing as 
their natures prompt them to do. Ought we not rather 
to remind ourselves of the tender forethought which 
leads them to lay their eggs only where the right kind of 
food will be supplied to the young caterpillar the. mo- 



    


 . 


ment it is hatched ; and more than this seems to de 
termine many of them in the laying of their eggs. The 
care shown by one butterfly alone, for instancethe 
Colias Hyale, or Pale-yellow-clouded Butterflyought 
to redeem the whole race from the charge of frivolity. 
Instinct leads her when the time for depositing her eggs 
comes in the early summer, to lay them on the delicate 
leaves of the clover or trefoil. The egg is hatched, and 
the small caterpillar not only feeds on tire leaves, but 
finds in them a protection from cold and damp. Each 
leaflet of the trefoil has a way of folding itself upone- 
half of the leaflet against the other half, when night falls. 
The little caterpillar has, therefore, only to stretch itself 
along the mid-rib of the leaf when the sun has set, and then 
the leaf folding itself up, and its toothed edges clasping 
closely together, the tender body of the caterpillar is en 
closed within a soft cradle during the hours of dampness 
and cold; and when the sun again rises and expands the 
clover leaf it may begin to eat its couch for its morning 
meal! We like to give the Colias Hyale some credit 
for obeying so carefully the promptings of her nature; 
but we must also remind ourselves of the Beneficence and 
Love which has given to her nature that forethought 
which is so tenderly to secure the preservation of a little 
caterpillars life. To each creature has been given, by 
its Creator, either a desire to provide beforehand for its 
young, food and safety, or the means of protecting it 
when born; and at the same time there is given to it the 


 . 


   


sort of knowledge which is needed to satisfy the desire, 
as well as for the employment of the means of pro 
tection. 



/* 


Vanessa cardui (of the thistle)P ainted Lady, 







   


 . 



|g| UNDERGROUND DWELLERS AND WORKERS. 


n* *  OST curious and yet most true is 
* ^ ie stor y we h ave to tell of how 


  IV. 


while we walk about our gardens, 


treading our gravel paths and cross 


ing our grass plots and lawns, there is living and working 
beneath our very feet a race of small creatures whom we 
may describe as a people who dwell in large communities 
underground, and who inhabit cities formed of caves 
instead of houses. At times we see very little of the 
inhabitants of these cave-cities above ground, but in the 
early part of the year, a portion of them being employed 
in forming fresh underground dwellings for the use of 
their increasing population, we can perceive the situation 
and extent o-f their operations by the piles of earth which 
are thrown up to the surface of the ground, and which also 
enable us to judge of the great works going on beneath. 
When we consider the proportion that these earth-works 
bear to the workers, we may well call their labours most 
wonderful, especially as they are performed without the help 
of machinery or even tools. At the beginning of summer 
we may find thrown up on our lawns piles of earth which 


 . 


   


are as enormous when compared to the size of the work 
people, as were the great pyramids of Egypt to the men 
who constructed them, and even on our paths are to be 
seen piles of gravel like small craters around the openings 
of the shafts, or passages which lead down to the excava 
tions underground, which are as high when compared to 
the excavators as are our houses to their inhabitants. 
Now if we watch how these mounds of gravel are raised, we 
shall see that there are two streams of busy workers con 
stantly going up and down the shafts; one stream con 
sisting of workers who come up with small loads of earth 
which they carry to a short distance from the entrance to 
the shaft, and another stream of those who are returning to 
fetch more; and if we examine with a magnifying glass 
these tiny loads of earth or gravel, so small to our eyes, 
but yet a heavy load no doubt to the creature who 
carries it, we shall find that it is a rounded ball of soil 
which has been slightly kneaded together before it was 
brought up; and should we attempt to count these small 
loads of earth, we shall find it impossible to number 
even those which are around the entrance of a single 
shaft, and yet each of them represents the toilsome 
journey of a worker from beneath to the surface 
hundreds of thousands of small grains, telling of 
hundreds of thousands of journeys up and down; and 
when we observe all these signs of labour we may be 
sure that at such times is going on, the construction or 
enlargement of one of the cave-cities of the Underground 
Workers. 


 o 


 . 


Let us, however, see what is the form of the little 
workers, and what are their powers; and again using 
the magnifying glass, we now perceive that they have 
curious long bodies divided into three parts, that they 
have six legs, and two long feelers in front. The head, 
the chest or thorax, and the stomach or abdomen, form 
the three parts, and it is this division of the body which 
causes the creature to be called an insect, and we know 
that this particular kind of insect is called an ant. We 
all get some notion of the busy bustling fussy ways of 
ants from what we see of them above ground, but it is 
by no means so easy to find out all that relates to their 
lives beneath the ground. Curious mistakes have been 
made about them and their habits, and after all the close 
observations of a great many naturalists who have made 
them their study, we have yet much to learn about them, 
while the more we know of the tiny creatures, the more 
wonderful their doings appear to us. Of course there 
are many kinds of ants, and the habits of each kind 
differ somewhat from one another, but in some respects 
all English ants are alike in their mode of life ; and 
when we have learnt all that there is to tell about our 
garden ants, we shall find that the whole life of the 
greater number of themjust those whom we see bustling 
about here and there, and journeying up and down, is spent 
in labours that have a very important purpose. 

In each ant city there are three kinds of inhabitants, 
and on all three kinds the good of the whole community 
depends. There is no such thing as an ant living 


   l 

or working for itself, providing for its own wants or those 
of its young, as with most other creatures. All ants 
live and work together for the benefit of the whole 
population in each community. In each of the latter, 
there are males , females , and working ants . The males 
and females have to produce the young, and so supply 
inhabitants for the city, while the working ants have to 
work for, and feed, and take care of the males and 
females, and young, and construct the cave-cities, and it 
is these indefatigable little creatures with which we are 
best acquainted from seeing them above ground when 
they come up on matters of business. On them depends, 
in fact, the well-being and lives of all. It is they, as we 
have shown, who are so busy when the fine weather sets 
in, in hollowing out the caves or cells, which will be 
wanted for future progeny, and which they connect 
together with galleries and passages, so that all are 
communicable one with another. Some of the caves 
are for the reception of the females who are to become 
the mothers of a future generation, others are for the 
males, and others are destined for the eggs which pro 
duce the grubs or larvae, and others for the cocoons 
from which the perfect ants are to be hatched. The 
female ants being much larger than either the males or 
workers, larger cells are wanted for them of an oval form 
suited to the shape of their bodies, and where they are 
waited upon and tended with great care and respect, 
since on them depends the keeping up of the population, 
which seems to be the great aim of all ant labour and 


   


THE DWELLERS *IN OUR GARDENS. 


industry; and when we consider how a constant diminu 
tion of their numbers must be going on from the fact 
that many species of birds make them their food, we 
can understand how necessary this strong instinct is in 
the nature of the little creatures, if the ant race is not 
to die out and become extinct. The greatest care, and 
exactness, and skill is shewn in the formation of the 
little cave cells. The walls of them are built up of grains 
of earth, fitted into each other with great precision, and 
then it would seem they are covered over with some 
kind of cement which the creature has the power of 
secreting from its body, and when the whole is done, the 
small mason will carefully pass his feelers over his work to 
see that all is smooth, compact, and firm, just as a human 
mason will measure his work with his rule to satisfy 
himself that his bricks are all level, and his wall 
upright. 

During the winter, ants spend their time in a torpid 
state in their underground caves, and at this time 
the hive is filled perhaps only with workers, and the 
cocoons ready for hatching when warm weather comes, 
and it is to prepare for the fresh populations that new 
works, and additions to their cities are made in spring, 
and when these are once finished the whole character 
and employment of the working ant undergoes a com 
plete change. The same anxiety for the good of the 
whole community, the same devotion to the interests of 
their race and city shew themselves, and the same self- 
denial and unwearied industry goes on, but they are now 


 . 


    


no longer miners or masons, no longer  navvies , but 
become most tender and careful  nurses' From the 
time that the city is supplied with new abodes, and that 
the warmth of the sun is felt even beneath the earth, 
the wonderful transformation begins within the ant- 
cocoon which is to change its contents into a living 
creature. Just when the mother bird is sitting on her 
eggs in her snug nest, so as to give the warmth needed 
for their change into young birds, the ant nurses begin 
their loving attentions to the cocoons in their caves, 



Ant highly magnified, carrying Cocoon. 


which also require heat for their change into living ants. 
More eager bustling begins among them, which we cannot 
always see, since it goes on beneath ground. When the 
sun shines out bright and warm, the cocoons in the cells 
deep down below in the hive, must be carried up to nearer 
the surface, where the warmth will reach them, and to 
effect this the whole army of nurses,is in commotion: 
and if we can manage to catch sight of them at such 
times we shall see each little worker with a white oblong 
cocoonnot very unlike a baby in swaddling clothes 




    . 

held by the end in her" jaws or mandibles which she 
carries before her, and which forms a load almost as 
large as her own body, or even larger if it be the cocoon 
of a future male or female. But the cocoons have 
perhaps not long been placed in the warmer cells, or 
laid in some passage or gallery near the opening of a 
shaft, when the sun becomes obscured and a shower 
begins to fall. Now although the white covering of 
the cocoons is a tolerably tough and strong material, yet 
it would not do for them to be exposed to both cold and 
damp, and the careful nurses have to set to work to carry 
their charges all back to the lowermost cells where the 
rain will not reach themto bring them up again, it may 
be, before the day is over, in case the sun should re-appear. 
No end is there in fact to the tender care, and in 
defatigable attention of the nurses. It has been no 
doubt this running about with the white cocoons in their 
mandibles, or the finding of them in their nests in the 
winter, which has led to the mistake of supposing that 
ants stored up grains of corn and other seeds, which is 
certainly not the case with any ants known in England, 
who pass the winter in a dormant state. Naturalists have 
however lately become aware that a peculiar species of 
ant found in some other countries, does lay up a store 
of food such as corn and rice, and have named them 
   harvesting ants. It may have been of such, that King 
Solomon speaks, who was so knowing about plants and 

*We may say her, since it has been discovered that the working 
ants are really females, though imperfectly formed ones, so that 
they do not produce eggs. 


 . 


   


animals, where in his proverbs he describes the ant as 
 providing her meat in summer and getting her food in 
the harvest, while in another way his knowledge was 
also most correct, since he speaks of the ant as  having 
no guide, overseer, or ruler, for it is certain that all the 
operations of the working ant, all her busy industry and 
anxiety for the good of the community to which she 
belongs, arises from an impulse within the little creature 
forming part of her nature, which is very like the love 
of duty in a human being. It does not surprise us to 
find other animals taking tender care of their young, and 
we admire the devotion and self-denial which they 
often show towards them, but with the ant-nurses it is 
the young of others whom they tend, and the good of 
the whole of their fellow-citizens, which is the aim of 
their labour. They seem to have the feeling which we 
call love of our country, or national honour and pride. 
They are not slaves by any means, for no one orders or 
exercises authority over themthey are rather willing 
and devoted servants to the general good. The powers, 
feelings, and affections of ants being so many and so 
curious, it has been said that the brain of an ant, perhaps 
no larger than a fine grain of sand, must be the most 
wonderful particle of matter in the world. 

But though our ants do not store up food, nor eat in the 
winter, it has at other times a good appetite, and within our 
garden walls an abundant supply of food is found, suited 
to the taste and fitted for the nourishment of the ant 
colonies. They like most kinds of fruits, sweet roots, 

F 


   


 . 


and even the flesh of slugs and snails. A dead mouse 
or sparrow is soon attacked and their bones picked clean 
by hungry ants. We know too well how a fallen pear 
or apple is often found to be hollowed out by ants, and 
how our peaches and nectarines are attacked by them 
and riddled with holes. Nothing in fact that is sweet 
comes amiss to them, and portions of food are at all 
times carried down by the workers to the grubs or larvae 
hatched from the eggs, or to the young ants which have 
just left the cocoons. Their strong jaws or mandibles 
enable them to bite solid food and carry it in their 
mouths, while they have also a kind of hollow tongue 
like a scoop which can be used for lapping up liquids, 
and is perhaps employed for taking home some of 
the sweet juices of fruit. We know how wonderful 
is sometimes the persistent industry and determination 
of the little creatures, in getting at the kinds of food they 
like best. To an ant-city at one side of our garden, for 
instance, there is carried somehow in August the perfume 
of the ripening peaches on the wall at the opposite side. 
We cannot detect the fragrant odour so far off ourselves, 
but the sensitive nerves of the tiny ants must discover it 
in the air. It may, to be sure, be possible that some 
adventurous ant traveller has penetrated across the vast 
(to them) extent of land which stretches between their 
hive and the wall where hang the downy peaches that 
are getting softer and sweeter every day, and that he has 
journeyed back to tell his fellow citizens what he has 
discovered, and has induced a large party to set off and 


 . 


0  


make a causeway across the paths and beds, and form 
tunnels under the turf borders, to where the peaches can 
be reached by climbing the wall. We can easily see 
that a long procession of them is constantly doing this, 
though we know not exactly how they have first been 
induced to undertake such a distant exploration. But 
there can be no doubt that ants have wonderful ways of 
communicating with each other, nor that they have 
something like a language of their own. If we watch a 
party going to and fro across a path, we soon observe 
that they occasionally stop as they pass each other, 
touch one another with their feelers or antennae, and then 
continue their route, much as we do ourselves when we 
meet a friend and have a chat with him in the street. 
Naturalists who have observed the ways of ants very 
carefully and constantly, have seen that when any 
calamity has occurred in the colony, the workers will 
run about and tell the news to those at a distance, with 
a touch of their feelers, and that then all who are so 
warned will hurry to the scene of the disaster in order to 
set about repairing it. Perhaps even sounds are emitted 
by ants, and many other insects, which are too fine and 
high pitched for our ears to hear, as the elephant who 
hears the deep notes of an organ or drum, cannot hear 
the high and shrill notes of a pipe or flute. There have 
been cases where ants seem to have got scent of some 
store of honey, or treacle, or sweet preserve within a 
house, and have journeyed a long distance in great num 
bers to reach it, even making their way down chimneys 


   


 . 


to get to the luscious store, but our garden ants are 
generally contented with what they can find without 
doors. 

Nothing, too, is more certainly true in the ways of 
ants, than that they supply their keen craving for 
sweet liquid food by having recourse to the honey dew 
which is secreted from the bodies of the little green aphis 



Aphisthe Cow of the Ant 
highly magnified. 

or plant louse, which lives upon the sap of our rose trees, 
and of which other kinds are to be found on our larger 
trees, such as the poplar, oak, lime, and apple tree. 
The rose aphides have even been called the  cattle of the 
ants, and the latter are said to milk them like cows for 
their sweet juices, and even to capture them and keep 
them in their hives for this purpose. Watching the 
stem of a rose which happens to be covered with these 
delicate little creatures in thick clusters, we shall not be 
long before we perceive some ants among < them, and 
with a magnifying glass may detect one touching an 
aphis with its feelers, striking with a rapid motion like 


 . 


   


the beating of two drum-sticks just where two little 
projections stand out from the back of the aphis like a 
double tail. These are the teats of the ants cow, and 
soon there can be seen oozing out from them drops of 
the sweet syrup which the ant eagerly laps up. The 
life of the aphis is one long process of sucking up the sap 
of the rose stem, first piercing it with the sharp proboscis 
beneath its head, which penetrates the outer green bark 
and acts also as a sucker. The sap of the plant, which at 
first is not sweet, as it circulates in the rose stem, becomes 
converted into a kind of honey in the body of the aphis, 
as the nectar of flowers is changed into honey in the 
body of the bee. And there can be no doubt that as 
the bee carries home within its body to the hive the 
juices of flowers, so the ant carries to the male and 
female ants, or young ones at home, some of the sweet 
honey dew it has lapped up. So fond are ants of this 
kind of food that they will even excavate long under 
ground passages like railway tunnels, to the foot of the 
trees or shrubs where are to be found the different 
species of aphis or plant lice, in order that they may 
make their way easily backward and forward from the 
hive during the season when the honey dew is being 
produced by the aphides. 

And now we must return to the history of the cocoons, 
which the nursing ants take so much care of, and carry 
up and down according as they want extra warmth for 
them to bring them to maturitythe shifting and 
carrying about of the little white oblong cocoons in their 


   


 . 


jaws going on for some weeks of spring, and then, from 
some tokens best known to the watchful nurses, they find 
that the young ant has come to perfection within the 
cocoon, and is ready to come out and enter upon 
ant life and be fed; and not waiting until the little 
insect has made its own way out of its envelope, as the 
young bird contrives to do from its enveloping shell, the 
workers have been seen to bite the ends of the cocoons, 
and making an aperture, help the young ants to extricate 
themselves from them. Sometimes this matter is not so 
easily managed, and two workers have been seen pulling 
at the little creature to disentangle it from the cocoon. 
The ant once launched into life, it makes all the differ 
ence in its value and importance to its native city, 
whether it has proved to be a male or female, or merely 
an ordinary worker like those who assisted at its birth, 
and since the two former are much larger than the 
workers, it follows that the cocoons are also larger, and 
have been from the first placed in larger cells prepared 
especially for them, so that even from the time of the egg 
being laid by the mother ant it has been the most care* 
fully preserved and tended. The females are much the 
largest of the three kinds of ants, and are at all times 
treated with the greatest honour and respect, and get the 
choicest food and the most abundant supply of it, since 
they are to become the mothers of the future generation 
which is to keep up the numbers of the ant colony. 
Ants do not, like bees, make a queen of one particular 
mother ant, but are glad to have among them as many 


 . 


    


mothers as possible. When they emerge from the co 
coons, both males and females are furnished with gauzy 
wings, destined to be used when the time comes for their 
leaving the hive and pairing, until which time they re 
main in their cells, waited on by their attendant nurses. 
Perhaps it would not be very incorrect to say that these 
latter again change their characters at this period, and 
take upon themselves the office of jailers, while they 
watch most carefully to prevent the escape of the females 
from the hive. What can those silvery wings be for if 
not for flying with, in the air and sunshine above ground, 
and when once the mother ants are gone, who can tell 
if ever they will return again ? 

At length the time comes when all the watchful 
ness of the workers and all attempts to retain the 
female ants become useless. The summer is suffi 
ciently advanced, and the wings must be expanded 
and used for the purpose for which they were intended, 
and on some particularly warm day, the males first 
making their way out of the hive, they are followed by 
the females in spite of all the opposition of their 
guardians, and take flight into the soft air and bright 
sunshine. In terrible concern and dismay, the workers 
swarm up to the surface of the ground. The constant 
objects of their care, whether as nurses or jailers, are 
gone, and need them no longer. Thousands of ant- 
lengths high up above them, they are sporting in the air, 
among all the other winged creaturesbirds, butterflies, 
bees, wasps, and gnats. What a change from the cold, 


   


 . 


dark, underground cells, in the old ant city ! The male 
ants never return to it again, and we know not what 
becomes of them. They fall a prey perhaps to fly- 
catching birds, or perish with the cold of evening and its 
damp dews, or are captured in spiders webs. The 
females, however, seem to have an instinct which brings 
them back to the neighbourhood of their native home, 
around which workers place themselves as scouts, at 
considerable distances, on the look-out for them. No 
sooner is a female ant descried than she is surrounded 
by a number of her old jailers, and led back to the 
underground city again in triumph, in order that in one 
of the cells prepared for her she may in due time deposit 
her eggs. A few female ants so captured are sufficient 
to secure the continuance of a numerous population, 
and they again become; the objects of most obsequious 
devotion on the part of the workers until this is accom 
plished. A group of attendants constantly surrounds 
them, and their presence seems always a cause of joy 
and exultation. The workers have a way of skipping and 
leaping around them, and perform many kinds of frolics, 
to congratulate each other when a female is captured. 
 Some of them gently walk over her, says an ob 
server of ants;  others dance over her, to show their 
loyalty and affection. No sooner, however, has a 
female ant laid any eggs in a cell than the at 
tendants immediately make these the objects of 
their care and attention, instead of herself, and the ant 
mother will wander away and deposit eggs in another 


THE DWELLERS IN OUR CARDENS. 


   


cell. Should she die before she has laid any eggs, the 
attendants will stay with the body for several days, 

brushing and licking her in token of affection, or in 

 

hopes of restoring her to life. 

Before the mother ants begin to lay their eggs, however, 
a most singular operation has to be gone through, which 
is unlike anything done by any other creature. 
Their silvery wings, which enabled them to enjoy 
such a pleasant time in the open air, being no 
longer wanted for flying abroad, are to be cast aside as 
useless appendages, and the female, by biting the joints 
where they are attached to her body, and by bending 
them backwards and forwards over her back and head, 
gradually works them off. Henceforth she has only the 
task to perform of laying her eggs ; the eggs in due time 
are hatched, and the young grubs or larvie, after being 
carefully fed by the workers, whom we may again call 
nurses, weave a covering around themselves, pass through 
the change undergone by all insects within their white 
cocoons, until they become perfect ants. 

There are several very distinct species of ants to be 
met with in our woods and fields, somewhat different in 
their habits to those we have described, some of whom 
raise high hillocks of earth above the surface of the 
ground, in which they have different storeys of cells and 
galleries, used in warm weather, while other underground 
apartments are inhabited in winter time. In our gardens 
we may also distinguish two kinds of antthe Brown 
Ant, or Formica brunnea, and the Red Ant, Formica 


   


 . 


rufa. These two species of ant, though they are often 
near neighbours, would seem to be natural enemies, and 
each is perceived to guard most jealously their cities or 
colonies from being invaded by the other. The Red Ant 
is of a fiercer nature than the Brown Ant, and observers 
tell of most obstinately fought battles between them and 
their brown neighbours, in which numbers of the com 
batants will be slaughtered and left dead upon the battle 
field. In some instances these wars have been supposed 
to arise from parties of red ants wanting to carry off a 
supply of female cocoons from the brown ant colony, 
and in other cases from the brown ants wanting to get 
the services of some red workers for their own hive ; but 
such supposed origins for the battles seem less likely 
than that the two races were disputing for possession of 
some supply of favourite food. We have, however, watched 
a long-continued single combat between a red and a brown 
ant, which has been so obstinately carried on and so often 
renewed that we are ready to believe at all events in their 
enmity and disposition to fight. Other observers have no 
ticed ants at play, trying to bite each other, and chasing 
each other like frolicsome children. Very many curious 
observations have of late years been made on the ways of 
ants by naturalists, who have constructed glass cases, in 
which they have managed to establish ant communities, 
by putting into them ants of the three kindsworkers, 
males, and femaleswith a supply of earth for mining 
and cell-making, and food to their liking. By this means 
have been observed more plainly their wonderful per- 


 . 


   


severance and unfailing industry, while it has also been 
seen that ants are a very cleanly and tidy race, and in all 
their building and rearing of young take care never to 
leave any refuse material about, but give themselves the 
greatest trouble to carry such matter away. 

The good qualities in ants have caused them to 
be held up as an example to human beings in all 
ages, and we may conclude our history of these little 
creatures by telling how the perseverance of a single 
ant served to restore the courage and perseverance of 
a single man. A story is related of the Tartar prince 
and hero Timour, or Tamerlane, who at one time being 
discouraged and cast down by the defeat of his troops 
in some warlike excursion, was lying in his tent, and 
happened to notice an ant trying to crawl up its hang 
ings. Striking it dow r n with the end of a straw, the 
insect again and again renewed its attempts to climb 
up the curtain, and each time the warrior interrupted its 
ascent by striking it down. The prince was curious to 
see how long it would persist in its efforts, and eighty 
times the little creature renewed its attempts, and was 
eighty times knocked dow r n, until at length it conquered, 
the hero himself becoming tired of the contest, while 
full of admiration for his small conqueror, and he said 
to himself,  I will imitate this ant, and in like manner I 
too will conquer; and renewing his efforts against his own 
enemies, he became at last the conqueror of all India. 

But though men have considered the ways of the 
ant, in order to be wise, we may well ask our- 


    


 . 


selves what the little creatures have ever gained from 
us, and what sort of a notion they can have of us ? 
We have, of course, many powers and capabilities far 
above the ants, but it is sad to reflect, that if they are 
conscious at all of our presence in the world, it can only 
be as of cruel monsters who often destroy their im 
portant works, and who, if they interfere with our com 
fort or invade our luxuries, will ruthlessly slaughter 
millions of the innocent inhabitants of their under 
ground cities. Even if we would, we can scarcely 
become their benefactors or protectors. We can but 
admire them, learn all that concerns their lives, watch 
their curious ways, and examine their wonderful works, 
trying at least to leave these, our little fellow-creatures 
their place in this great and beautiful world, in which 
their lives and ours are placed and ordered. 






 . 


   


  V. 

THE BUSY ONES, WHO LOOK TO THE FUTURE. 

HERE is a retired corner 
in a certain garden which we 
know of, where stand the bee 
hives, just where a privet 
> hedge shelters them from the 
east, and a wall covered with 
an apricot-tree screens them 
from the north. On the other 
side of the wall is the orchard, 
where in spring, fruit trees are 
sure to be blossomingcherry, plum, pear, and apple 
in succession; and beyond the hedge lies the kitchen 
garden, where peas and beans, wall-fruit trees, and 
currants, and gooseberries, have much to offer to the bees 
before the summer flowers are fairly ready for them. 
Behind the hives, the hedge is covered late in spring 
with the little white spires of privet blossom, and a 
tangled vine of honeysuckle which climbs among it, puts 
forth thick clusters of its trumpet-shaped florets; while 
before the hives are laid out beds of every variety of 
flowers more or less honey-yielding, to tempt the bees 
when they do not care to roam farther. Of all the 








   


 . 


dwellers in our gardens, bees are the only ones for whom 
we provide dwellings. How do we explain this kindness 
to the little creatures? Why do we furnish them with 
these snug straw dome-shaped hives, and take care that 
they have about them all the flowers, and blossoms 
possible which can supply them with food ? 

We will answer these questions by pretending, after 
the manner of fables, to have heard a conversation 
between an old and a young bee, buzzed out one morning 
early in spring. 

Young Bee (taking one of his first flights from the 
hive, and noticing the outside aspect of the home in 
which he was born): Dear me! what a beautiful large 
house we live in! How grandly formed it is, and how 
thick its walls are. That is the reason I suppose why 
we are so snug and warm inside. Did you old bees 
make it last season? 

Old Bee:  Bless me, no, young onewe only make 
the combs inside it. These hives are made of twisted 
stalks of corn which we have nothing to do with, and 
never can get a drop of honey out of. Men make hives 
which are, as you say, very snug and warm, but not 
after all so difficult to make, or requiring such great 
precision as our combs inside them. 

Young Bee: Well! now I do think men are kind 
to us bees. Why, they dont make homes like these 
hives for the butterflies or beetles, or caterpillarsor 
even for the wasps, do they? 

Old Bee (buzzing rather sulkily): No! they do not 


 . 


   


but I cant say I see that that proves any great 
kindness to us bees. In former days, and even now in 
other countries, bees get on very well without these great 
conical straw hives (Old Bee used this word conical 
because he and his fellow bees are considered very 
clever mathematicians by nature). They used to make 
their nests, and form their combs in hollow trees, and 
holes in rocks and banks; and it did very wellperhaps 
better on some accounts than these hives, where we are 
always cramped for room. 

Young Bcc: Holes in rocks and hollow trees better 
than these grand gold coloured domes! Well, I must 
say I do not agree with you, old worker. 

Old Bee:  Dont you, young bee; then all I can say 
Is, wait till the Autumn ! Wait till you, and I, and all the 
nest of us, have toiled, and moiled, and gathered honey 
from this blossom and that blossom, this flower and that 
flower, from morn till night, and from day to day the 
whole summer long. Up, and out, and at work every 
morning soon after sun-rise, and leaving off only at sun 
downbackwards and forwards to the hive with our 
loads, through the long summer day, and only allowing 
ourselves just a little sip of honey now and then for our 
own food. Never thinking of anything but how we can 
get enough to store up for the wants of our people at 
home, while at other times we are labouring inside the 
hive at cell-making, to stow it all in for the winter, and to 
use as cradles for our young ones. And when summer 
is overthen see what they do with us ? and our beautiful 


So 


 . 


combs all brimful of golden honey ! Very kind of them 
indeed to spare some of onr lives (mine, for instance, last 
autumn), so that we may be able to build more combs 
and fill them with honey the next summer again. Why, 
you inexperienced, silly young bee! When youre a 
little older and wiser, you'll find that the hive-making, 
and the sparing of our lives too, when the flower season 
is over, is all in order that they may get every drop of 
our honey that they want for their uses, usesabuses, 
abuses, buz, buz; and thus ending his discourse, the 
old bee flies away, anxious after all to get to business 
again. The young bee, stunned at first with dismay 
at the terrible revelation made to him by age and 
experience, settles for a moment in sad contemplation 
on the tip of a tulip bud, and then catching the scent 
of some daffodils near at hand, flies off, and is soon 
buried in the cup of one of them, lapping up the sweet 
syrup at the bottom with his wonderful tongue, and by 
the time he meets the old bee again on their return 
home, with stomachs loaded with honey, he has forgotten 
all about the knowledge imparted to him in the morning, 
and both creep in very contentedly at the little entrance 
to the hive, troubling themselves very little about the 
selfishness of hive-making and honey-stealing men. 

We human beings do keep bees, in order that we may 
take possession of a good portion of their honey, but 
we are glad also to have them as dwellers in our gardens, 
because we like to observe their very curious ways and 
works. We feel interested in the little creatures, because 


 .      

although they differ so greatly from us in size and form, 
they are like us in some of their qualities, and in many 
of their doings. Bees have skill and industry, and fore 
thought like men. They are clever in providing for 
their present wants, and have a strange knowledge of 
what awaits them in the future, as if, like men, they learnt 
it from their parents or from books. They know, for 
instance, or seem to know, quite as well as men, that 
flowers do not last all through the year, and out of their 
mysterious consciousness of this fact, arises all their 
industry and the exercise of much of their skill. They 
feel somehow that they have no time to losethat they 
must waste no hour of the sunshine which opens the 
flowers, and they seem aware that in the coming flower 
less season they would starve unless they had a store 
of honey for their use. They act just like men who 
work for their own support and that of their families, 
and who save up, and invent and plan in order to provide 
for the future; and they are even better than men in so 
doing, because it is for their fellow citizens and neighbours 
that they exercise their powerswhile like men they live 
together in large communities, working together peace 
fully, and seem to be obedient to the laws which keep 
them in order, and enable them to carry out plans 
successfully. They divide their labours and help one 
another, some doing one thing, and some another, like 
the workmen in large factories, all performing a certain 
amount of work suited to them, which they perform most 
accurately and perfectly, and yet not so very mechanically, 


G 


<S   . 

but that on some occasions they appear to think about 
it, and when they meet with obstacles adopt means of 
overcoming them. For all these reasons, we like to 
observe and to learn all we can of their curious natures. 

Thousands of years ago, in the grand old times of 
Greece and Rome, when there were great thinkers and 
poets, and naturalists among the people, there were these 
who observed and wrote about bees, and considered 
them most worthy of study. The Greeks called them 
by a name which meant  flower-loving, and the 
Romans by one which meant  honey-bearing. In the 
ancient books of the Jewish people, which form the 
Old Testament, we know how frequently bees and honey 
are mentioned, and how their country was described 
as a land flowing with milk and honey, which meant 
that plenty of cattle were upon the hills, and plenty of 
bees in the valleys; and from our being told in the New 
Testament, that John the Baptist lived in the desert 
on locusts and wild honey, it would seem that in 
those days people in towns and villages kept bees in 
their gardens as we do at this time. 

The interest and curiosity felt in the ways and doings 
of bees, have led some persons in modern times, to 
devote a large portion of their lives to the study and 
observation of them, and from time to time they have 
got at the truth about the little creatures, so as to set 
aside many wrong notions entertained formerly. Glass 
bee-hives, and wooden hives with glass windows to them 
covered with shutters, have been invented in order 


 . 


   

that they may be watched at their work inside, and 
especially when in the act of constructing combs, but 
although these have helped us to learn a good deal 
about them, it is still difficult to detect all their secrets, 
and to find out somp of their doings from the great 
crowd of bees engaged upon their work, just when we 
want most to observe them. In a large and well stocked 
hive there will sometimes be as many as fifteen thousand 
bees, so that the separate movements and performances 
of a single bee at work can scarcely ever be detected, 
though what is done and produced by the whole 
community is very well known. 

In every nest or hive of what are called honey or 
hive bees, to distinguish them from other bees who 
do not store up honey, and who live solitary lives (like 
the humble bees which we often see in our gardens), there 
are three kindsthe males (or drones), the females, and 



Drone. Female, or Worker, or 

Queen Bee. Neuter. 


the workers, and it is these last who are the honey- 
eatherers, the cell-builders, and those who best deserve 


G   



   


 . 


the title of busy bees. These workers used to be 
called neuters, and were supposed to be neither males 
nor females, but are now known to be imperfect females 
stunted in their growth, and incapable of laying eggs. 
They seem, however, quite capable of constant labour for 
the good of others, and take upon themselves the care of 
the whole bee family; and it is they who have all the 
peculiar bee talents and skill. The males do nothing in 
the way of work, and are treated with little respect, while 
it only matters to the hive that there should be one 
female bee, who is to become the mother of a future 
generation of bees. She is called the Queen, because 
from the devotion and reverence paid to her it used to be 
fancied that somehow she governed the rest of the popu 
lation ; but this was a wrong notion, and it is very certain 
that she issues no commands and exacts no obedience, 
but is only valued very highly by all the rest, and is taken 
great care of, because she is to be the sole mother of the 
future race. As for the males or drones, we need hardly 
say that they are a very idle set; not even going out to 
gather honey for themselves, but waiting to be fed at 
home, and only taking a little flight occasionally from the 
hive for their health or pleasure, like lazy gentlemen. It 
has been thought by some people that they act as water- 
carriers to the hive, and by others that they sat on the 
eggs to hatch them; but all we are sure of is that they 
mostly stay at home, and may help to keep up the heat 
of the hive when the workers are away, and that from 
among them the queen chooses the husband who be- 


 .    

comes the father of her future progeny. The drones 
have broad bodies and blunt tails, while the bodies of the 
female bees or queens are much longer and more slender, 
and their wings somewhat shorter than those of the 
workers. These last are the smallest of the three kinds 
of bee in a hive, and it is these whom we see gathering 
honey and pollen from flowers, and who at home pro 
duce the wax and build the cells for the reception of the 
eggs and for the storing of the honey, and who, when the 
eggs are hatched, take charge of the young larvae or grubs, 
and feed and tend them most carefully. In each hive or 
nest of bees there are usually ten times as many working- 
bees as there are males or drones. 

As there are three kinds of bees in a hive, so are there 
three kinds of material gathered by them to supply the 
wants of the hivethe nectar of flowers, which becomes 
honey ; the farina, or pollen, of flowers ; and another 
substance which they get from trees, called propolis , or 
bee-glue. The two first of these substances are found in 
most flowers, but in some is obtained more nectar, and in 
others more pollen. If we pull a single flower to pieces, 
we can mostly detect the little nectary at the base of the 
style in which the sweet syrup is found which is lapped 
up by the bee, as well as the little oblong bag at the end 
of the stamens called the anther , which when a flower is 
fully blown splits open and sheds its contentsa white, 
yellow, red, or brown powder on the style or bunch of 
styles in the centre. This pollen the bee is as careful to 
collect as honey. It is not swallowed like the nectar, but 


   


 . 


is taken home in little hollow pouches which are in the 
hind-legs of the workers, and which serve them as 
baskets, while the hairy ends of their legs help them to 
brush up and collect the powder. Sometimes when a 
flower is very full of pollen, like that of the mallow or 
hollyhock, the little creatures will quite roll themselves in 
it, and go home to the hive covered with the powder, 
which they are relieved of by other workers at home, who 
knead it into bee-bread for the hungry grubs in the cells, 
of which it forms the sole food. The substance called 
propolis , or bee-glue, is found on different kinds of trees, 
such as the poplar, the fir tree, and the horse-chesnut, 
from which oozes out a sticky kind of resin to protect the 
young buds. Bees use this as a sort of cement to stop 
up crevices and cracks of the hive, and to varnish the 
cell-work of the combs when filled and closed up, and 
they have it ready also to cover up and embalm as it 
were any noxious body which may happen to get within 
the hive. Many other creatures, such as moths, wasps, 
snails, and ants, attracted perhaps by the smell of honey, 
will get into a hive, and soon fall victims to their bold 
ness; and after stinging the intruder to death, if they 
are too large to be removed, the bees will cover them 
over with propolis, as if to embalm them, and have been 
known even to take a snail prisoner who was about to 
enter a hive, by glueing down the edge of the shell to 
the hive stand, and thus converting his house into his 
prison. 

It may now be askedwhere do bees obtain the wax 


 . 


  


with which they construct their cells, and which when 
the combs are emptied of honey, becomes such a useful 
substance to us for candles and many other purposes? 
The answer must be, that wax is honey which has been 
digested in the stomach of the bees, and which is 
secreted from it in little scales which ooze out from 
between the overlapping plates which cover the stomach 
or abdomen outside, like a little coat of mail. When 
this substance is wanted for cell building, the .bees do 
not get rid of the honey with which their stomachs are 
filled, but hang themselves up in clustersthe fore-legs 
of one holding to the hind-legs of another, and so 
making a number of loops of bees, all hanging together 
s:ill and quiet, until the contents of their stomachs are 
quite digested, and the little wax scales are formed. Other 
workers then come and take these from them, and cany 
them to the wax-workers and cell-builders, who knead 
them together for use, just as masons make a mass of 
mortar before they begin to build walls. 

There seems to be always a careful division of 
labour among the working bees in a hive, so that 
while one party goes forth to gather materials another 
party stays at home to build cells or attend to the 
young. Some observers think that certain workers are 
always wax-workers, and others always nurse-bees, but 
it is not certain if this be the case, though it is very 
certain that while the wax-workers are busy over cell 
making, and cannot attend to their own wants, they 
are most carefully supplied with honey by their fellow- 


 S 


 . 


labourers who have brought home a supply of honey. 
It is perhaps most natural to fancy that those bees 
who are engaged in cell-building must have a particular 
talent for the work which the others do not possess. It 
is one thing for a bee to be able to discover in each 
flower-cup or bell, the part which holds the sweet syrup 
he wants to get at, and to be able to pack up pollen in 
the little pair of panniers which his thighs are furnished 
with, and take it all home; and quite another thing to 
be able to form the little six-sided cells, so wonder 
fully accurate in size and shape, which are used for 
storing up the honey, and as cradles for the young 
the walls of each exactly the right shape for taking up the 
least material and occupying the least space. It is said 
that someone once asked a clever mathematician to find 
out what was the best form for taking the least room and 
using the least material when a number of small chambers 
had to be built close together, and he calculated and 
measured, and then decided that there was no form so 
advantageous as the six-sided, or hexagonal form, which 
is adopted by bees for their cells all over the world. 

The combs formed in a hive are composed of two 
layers of these six-sided cells, placed end to end, 
and these ends being each like a little pyramid formed 
of three sides, they fit in to one another with no 
space between, and as each bee makes his own cell 
complete the sides and ends of each cell are double. 
It has been thought by some naturalists that each 
bee only tries to make a tube-shaped cell, with round 


 . 


   


end like a veiy long and narrow thimble, and that it 
is the pressure of all the little workers one against 
the other, and the soft nature of the wax, which 
causes the walls and ends of each cell to be angular, 
since each bee works with six neighbours around him 
and three at the end. Even if this notion should be 
the correct explanation, it still leaves the art of bees 
most wonderful in the exactness with which they work 
at the same distance apart from each other, and 
in the many expedients they adopt to suit their work 
to their purposes. 


Portion of Comb, shewing 
how the cells are placed 
end to end, forming the 
thickness of the comb. 



When bees are employed in building up a comb, 
they work so fast and in such great numbers that a 
piece of comb containing four thousand cells has 
been found to be completed in twenty-four hours 
by its industrious architectsthat number perhaps 
being employed upon it. The outer ends of all the 
cells are at first left open. Those which are intended 
as storehouses for the honey have to be gradually filled 













  


 . 


with the little loads brought home in the stomachs 
or rather honey-bags of the busy workers, after rifling the 
flowers, and each cell is only covered over and sealed 
up with wax when filled to the very brim. Cells wanted 
for the young brood are made rather larger than those for 
honey, and are left open until the queen or mother-bee 
has dropped into each of them a single egg, and even 
then are not closed, because from each egg will be 
hatched a small white grub, or larva , which has to be 
carefully fed for a time on the bee-bread, made of pollen 
meal, which the nurse-bees bring to them and drop into 
their little wax cradles. When the grub is at last ready 
to spin itself a cocoon and change into the chrysalis 
state, the cell is closed up, and it is left to undergo this 
change in quiet and secresy; and by-and-by the chrysalis, 
or pupa , is transformed into the perfect insect, and eats 
its way out of its native cell to enter upon the life of a 
bee. After this there are to be no more changes, except 
in the nature of its business, and it has only to shake out 
its wings, and then sally forth from the hive into the 
beautiful outer world of sunshine and flowers, with the 
soft air around, filled with enticing scents from all the 
nectar cups that it may sip from, just as its fancy pleases. 
What a change from the dark, hot hive ! 

And on this coming forth from the hive, how wonder 
fully is the little creatures body provided with all that is 
needed for the business and pleasure of its life. First of 
all, its four gauzy wings, which enable it to mount up into 
the air, and of which the muscles which give them motion 


 . 


    


are so strong that they can fly sometimes as far as two 
miles and back again without fatigue. The two hind- 
wings are smaller and more delicate than the front pair, 
and in flight are caught to the latter by means of very 
small hooks, so that they seem but one pair of wings, and 
When the bee is at rest are folded beneath the larger and 
stronger wings. Then come the six 
jointed legs, the hind pair being fur 
nished with hollow pouches which serve 
to carry home to the hive the pollen 
and little pellets of propolis, or bee- 
glue. These small receptacles are lined 
with a smooth horny substance, to which 
the pollen does not adhere, and around 
their edges stands out a fringe of strong 
bristles, which prevent the contents 
carried from falling out, while the hairs 
on all the legs, and especially those on 

Hind-leg of Bee, 

the feet, serve as brushes to sweep up showing the pollen 
the pollen. pouch. 

The proboscis of a bee is a most curious little tool, or 
rather a collection of little tools, all of which have no 
doubt their meaning and purpose, and are used in all the 
different works which the busy creature spends its life in 
performing. The microscope shows us that it can be 
opened out into five different parts, the centre one of 
which is a long flexible tongue, which can be bent in 
every direction as it licks or laps up the nectar in the 
flowers,, for a bee neither sucks up its food with a spongy 



   


 . 


proboscis like a fly, nor with a long tube like a butterfly. 
At the bottom of the tongue we see the oblong bag 
into which the sweet juice is gathered, and where it 
undergoes the change which turns it into honey. On 

each side of the tongue are two jointed 
parts something like fingers, which are 
supposed to be used in gathering up 
the pollen, and perhaps also in knead 
ing it into bee-bread, and it may be 
also in moulding the wax in cell 
making. These parts, or organs, as 
well as the tongue, can be shut up 

in the two outer sheaths, which are 

 

smooth and horny, and furnished with 
bristles, so that the proboscis then forms one sharp- 
pointed tool, which is probably used in cutting and 
modelling wax, but as we can neither take our micro 
scopes into the heart of a flower nor get into a hive 
with them, people who have even spent their lives in 
observing the ways of bees are obliged to guess how the 
little case of instruments is turned to account. But we 
can judge how admirably each one must serve its pur 
pose by the accuracy and perfection of the works 
performed with it. 

Perhaps the eyes of bees are still more wonderful 
instruments, and they have what may be called two 
different sets of them. First, two large eyes on each side 
of the head, composed of a multitude of separate little 
eyelets, each with a single hair standing out from its 




 . 


   


border, so that the whole eye is thus covered with a 
hairy covering which must protect it from the fine pollen 
dust when busy in the heart of a flower. Besides these 
two compoicnd eyes, it has three other eyes in the front of 
its head, the use of which is not very certain, but since a 
bee has to work in the dark hive as well as in the bright 
sunshine, it may be that these are used when at home. 
Bees must also have a very acute sense of smell, guiding 
them even to great distances in search of flowers which 
send forth scent, and it is thought by some that their an 
tennae or feelers are the organs of smell, while it would 
seem as if they also were used in communicating with 
each other, and that their delicate touch helps the wax 
worker in his cell-building. 

The sting of a bee is composed of a sharp stiletto, 
which first pierces and then pours poison into the wound 
it makes, and is such a formidable weapon of defence 
that we are careful to leave them undisturbed at their 
labours. When a bee is dissected, it is found to have 
two quite separate stomachs. The first is used as a 
honey-bag, in which the nectar of flowers is collected, 
and where it undergoes the change which makes it honey 
when it is disgorged on returning to the hive. The 
second stomach is that in which the honey is changed 
still more and becomes wax. It is like a cask with 
hoops on the inside, and has openings through which the 
wax oozes, in the form of tiny scales, which lie under the 
overlapping plates that cover the stomach outside like 
tiles. These little cases in which the wax is found are 
sometimes called wax pocket *, 


   


 . 


When bees are making their combs they begin at the 
top and work downwards, and the different combs in a 
hive are built side by side, about half-an-inch apart, so 
that the workers can easily get at each side of them, and 
pass each other when at work in crowds. The combs are 
about two inches in thickness, just what the length of 
two cells placed end to end makes them. The French 
call them gateaux de miel, or cakes of honey, and 
such as come out of our round hives are not unlike thick 
cakes rounded at the edge; but when bees have their 
nests in the hollow trunks of large trees, they will some 
times go on increasing the size of a comb until it is a 
yard or more in length. In those combs which are in 
tended for the broods, there are a few cells in each hive 
made much larger than the rest, and of an oblong shape, 
with the hollow within something like the inside of a 
small thimble ; and these are prepared for the female 
bees, one of which is intended to be a future queen 
such cells, so different from the ordinary six-sided cells, 
being placed quite apart at the edge of the comb.* When 
an egg is hatched which has been laid in one of these royal 


* The cell intended for a royal cell is formed like an inverted 
acorn cup (as on right side of the annexed cut), when the queen bee 
deposits a single egg in it, which adheres to the end. The workers 
then enlarge the cell by adding more and more wax to it, until it 
becomes the size and shape of the cells represented on the left side 
of cut. When the grub is hatched from the egg it lies along the cell 
head downwards, ready to be fed, and only when about to change 
to a chrysalis is the cell closed at the bottom. In the upper cell is 
shown where the perfect queen bee has made her escape. 


 . 


   


cells, the little grub has the greatest care and attention 
bestowed upon it. It is fe'd w r ith a sort of rich pap 
made of pollen and honey, and has a greater amount of 
food given to it than the rest, so that it becomes in time 
the large and slender-shaped bee which is fitted to 
become the queen-mother to a future race of bees. 



Portion of Comb, shewing ordinary cells, closed and 
open, and Royal or Queens cells. 


When it happens that a young queen has come to 
perfection, the old queen would seem to consider it 
time to establish a new community; and suddenly, 
some warm day in autumn, she leaves the nest, and, 
surrounded by crowds of drones and workers, rises up 
into the air, and after whirling about for some time, 
they all settle at last on some bough of a tree not far off 
























    


TEE DWELLERS IN OUR GARDENS. 


from the old hive, and seem to deliberate what next to 
do. We scarcely know what course would be taken by 
the party of emigrants, if left to themselves; for directly 
it is found that the bees of a hive are leaving itor 
beginning to swarm, as it is calleda new hive is 
brought out, and the cluster of bees is swept into it, 
taking care that the queen does not escape, and before 
many hours are over the new community is found to be 
building up wax combs within, and going abroad to 
collect honey, and pollen, and bee-glue, and living the 
usual life of bees, and working at their usual works. 

Besides the hive or honey bees, we perhaps see many 
other species of bees in our gardens in the course of a 
summer, since there are as many as two hundred and fifty 
different kinds found in England; many of these are 
what are called solitary bees, and instead of living in 
communities like our hive bees, make themselves little 
caves or burrows in banks and underground, and collect 
only honey and pollen sufficient for their own food and 
that of their young. Some of them, after forming balls 
of a kind of paste made of honey and pollen, lay two 
or three eggs in it, so that when the grubs are hatched 
the next spring, long after the cold of winter has killed 
the parent bees, they have a supply of food around them 
upon which they feed until the time comes for changing 
into the chrysalis form, after which they become perfect 
bees. Another kind of solitary bee makes most curious 
nests or cells for its eggs, formed of oval pieces of rose- 
leaf which it cuts out with its proboscis with great pre- 


 . 


   



Leaf-cutting Bee. 

The bee we most often notice in our gardens, is, 
perhaps, the large handsome bee with the black and 
yellow velvet-like coat which we call the humble bee. 
On hot summer days we are sure to hear his loud sleepy 

H 


cision and carries to its subterranean home, and then 
sticks together, one little portion of leaf being bent 
round and laid upon another until a little thimble-shaped 
cell is formed. 



















  S 


 . 


hum as he hovers among our flowers, and can observe 
him tumbling as it were, into widely opened flowers, and 
such as have tubes and cups large enough to admit him, 
and we see how sure he is .to come out of them covered 
with white, red, or yellow pollen according to their kind 
which has clung to his back and legs. The humble bees 
live in small communities of at most two or three 
hundred, using as a nest some hollow in a bank or a 
burrow underground which has been made by some other 



Garden Humble Bee (Bombus Hortorum). 

creature. They only gather honey enough to serve for 
their food and for wax secreting, and fox mixing with 
pollen to make pap or bee-bread for the grubs. Many 
females live in their communities, so that they have not 
a queen bee to whom they pay such attention and 
deference as in hives. Their ways are also much less 
regular and methodical than hive bees, for they build no 
combs and their cells are neither packed closely together 
nor are they six-sided, but are round and oblong like 
little jars or pots, while cocoons and balls of bee-bread 
in which are the eggs, and jars of honey and pollen are 
found in their nests all piled together in seeming disorder. 


 . 


   


But though the humble bee stores up no honey which 
we human beings can appropriate, and do not appear to 
be as clever or careful as hive bees, yet it has been 
discovered by naturalists that this species of bee per 
forms unconsciously a very important office in carrying 
on their silken coats the fertilizing pollen which some 
flowers require to have brought to them before they can 
bear seed or fruit; and they have also remarked that such 
bees are in the habit of going to flowers of one kind only 
during each excursion from home, by which means the 
pollen of one flower is not carried to that of another kind. 

And now we must return again to our account of the 
honey or hive bee, not attempting, however, to tell all 
the particulars of their doings within the hive, which those 
who have observed and watched them very closely, have 
from time to time discovered. It is less difficult to find 
out some of their ways when abroad collecting honey 
and pollen and propolis. We find that they stay away 
from the hive about half an hour when in search of 
honey, and a little less than this time when collecting 
pollen, while they will occasionally make still longer 
journeys if such an inducement comes as a field of clover 
or of beans in blossom, which attracts them from afar by 
their sweet perfume; and they will also make longer flights 
to get at a stream of water, of which they are very fond, 
and perhaps use within the hive in kneading pollen and 
wax. As we watch them among the' flowers of our 
gardens, they seem very fanciful and capricious, as they 
flit about taking honey from one flower on a plant and 


H   


IOO 


 . 


leaving others untouched, collecting pollen from one 
flower-bell, and leaving others equally full of it for their 
fellow-labourers. Some flowers have evidently tubes too 
long for them to send their tongues down to the bottom, 
and some are too narrow for the entrance of their bodies ; 
these they are obliged to leave for the long proboscis of 
some butterfly or moth. Sometimes, as with the short 
narrow-tubed flowers of the jasmine, whose scent has 
attracted them, they contrive to get at the sweet juice by 
piercing a hole at the bottom of the tube. In the flowers 
of the snapdragon, though the lips of the corolla seem 
so firmly closed, bees will force themselves in, and get 
out of the little flower-trap again, which opens with a 
spring, and snaps to again after they have made their 
escape; and here the bee has it all to himself, as no moth 
or butterfly could perform the same exploits. In the 
flower of the honeysuckle, with its narrow tubes, we have 
wondered how the plant came to be so frequented by 
bees, and have found that the abundant nectar of each 
little floret runs down the style in the centre and hangs 
about the small knob or stigma at the end, so that it is 
easily licked off by the bee. 

The honey, or, rather, nectar of flowers (for it is 
not properly called honey until it has undergone a 
change in the stomach of the bee) is yielded in different 
quantities and is different in quality according to the 
season and the time of day. No time is so favourable 
for honey gathering as the early morning, when flowers 
are first opening out to the sun, and before the 


 . 


IOT 


nectar has been evaporated by its warmth. A story 
is told of some peasants of Bavaria, in a district of that 
country where hives were so generally kept and made a 
profit of, that a sort of rivalry was kept up as to the 
quantity of honey each bee-master could obtain from 
his hives. It was found year after year that one old man 
was constantly able to get more honey than any of his 
neighbours, although his bees had just the same flowery 
fields and hills to wander over as their own. What could 
be the cause of his success? Puzzled and jealous, the 
others at last accused him of witchcraft, and the old bee- 
master had to explain that the simple cause of the mystery 
was that he had taken care to place his hives in a south- 
easternly direction, so that his bees being awakened up 
by the warm rays of the sun as it rose, and sallying 
forth the earliest, got the freshest and sweetest and 
most abundant harvest of honey. 

Beekeepers in many countries are in the habit of 
moving their hives to fresh districts when the honey 
about them has been exhausted, or the season for 
some honey-bearing flowers is to be found elsewhere. 
A peasant will take his hive on his back to some 
heather-covered hill many miles off; and in Switzer 
land the inhabitants of the valleys will send their 
hives up to the care of the herdsmen who are watching 
their flocks on the mountain side. In Egypt, where 
along the valley of the Nile the season for particular 
flowers varies according as the districts where they grow 
are further to the south, the peasants will send their 


  0  


 . 


hives up the river, each numbered so as to be claimed 
again; and then a boat freighted with numbers of them 
will be allowed to float slowly down the stream, while 
the bees go forth to gather rich harvests on the banks, 
getting the perfumed honey from the orange blossoms of 
one district, from the sweet jasmine of another, and the 
roses of others, as they come into bloom. 

Other creatures besides men are fond of honey, espe 
cially bears, and in America the bee-hunters will make 
use of these animals to track the bees to the hollow trees 
in which are their nests. The bears sense of smell is quick 
in detecting where honey is stored within, and after 
rubbing their noses against the bark will begin to gnaw a 
hole in the trunk. Some other creatures will capture bees 
themselves for the sake of the honey in their stomachs. A 
toad, it is said, will sit under a stand of hives, ready to 
pounce on any stray bee which may alight near him, and 
tom-tits in some parts of England are called bee-biters, 
from their practice of tapping at the walls of hives with 
their beaks, which bringing out bees as if to inquire 
Who is there? they are snapped up. To prevent the 
entrance of a particular kind of moth very fond of honey, 
bees are said sometimes to make winding passages at the 
entrance of their hives of wax and propolis, only just 
wide enough to admit their own bodies. 

The stings of beestheir very formidable weapons of 
defencemake it not an easy matter to rob their 
hives each autumn of a portion of the honey made 
in the summer, each hive being like a little fortress 


 . 


  0  


full of thousands of well-armed soldiers, ready to 
resist any attempt to carry off the contents of the 
treasure chambers within it. In former days, it used 
to be the common custom to destroy the whole of 
the bees in a hive, and to capture all the combs, 
but a more humane method is now adopted of merely 
stupifying the bees for a time, and then leaving within 
the hive sufficient honeycomb to supply their wants 
during the winter. We do not scruple to help our 
selves to some of their honey, and consider that we have 
as good a claim to it, as to the milk of the cow, or the 
wool and flesh of the sheep. Before men discovered how 
to make sugar from the juice of a tropical cane, the 
honey of bees supplied to them a wantfor by nature we 
are made to desire sweet food; but now honey may be 
looked upon only as a luxury for which we are indebted 
to these little creatures, and the increase in our know 
ledge of their ways and works makes us more reluctant 
to destroy their lives unnecessarily. The natural life of 
a bee, too, is not a long one, and though a queen bee 
will sometimes be found to have lived as long as three 
years, becoming during that time the mother of perhaps 
a million of offspring, yet the laborious and clever 
working bee seldom lives longer than a year and a half 
at the most, while the male bees either die a natural 
death in the autumn or are not allowed to live through the 
winter to consume the stores to which they have never 
added, and are deliberately put to death by the stings of 
the workers. 


  0  


 . 


And during that short life of the working bee, how 
curiously varied are her labours and doings ! First a 
small grey grub, eating voraciously the loaves of bee- 
bread popped into her little cradle-cell by careful 
nurses. Then after growing very fast, beginning on a 
sudden to spin and weave, wrapping herself up in a close 



fitting garment of silk as if even the privacy of the waxen 
cells were not enough to conceal her while undergoing 
the mysterious transformation, during which the almost 
shapeless body is supplied with wings, legs, feelers, 
proboscis, tongue, and sting; a honey-making stomach, 
and another for secreting wax. And when as a perfect 
bee, she has come forth and become, first a diligent 
searcher after flower-nectar, and flower-meal, and tree- 
resinsafter bread-making and wax-secreting, and wax- 
kneading, she exercises at last the highest of her powers 
and becomes a skilful architect, executing on what are 





 . I0  

like very scientific principles, and with the greatest ac 
curacy and precision those works which may be said to 
have been the wonder of the whole world in all ages. 

And then when all is over and the short life of the 
busy worker-bee is ended, we may be sure that the little 
creature has had a pleasurable existence, and that the 
exercise of all her industry and skill has brought her 
a species of satisfactionthat her labours have been 
labours of love, and after all to her, Work has been only 
that which we call Happiness. 







































io  


 . 


  VI. 

OUR GARDEN CHORISTERS. 

MONG the boughs and branches 
of our garden trees, which serve 
them for singing galleries, our 
choristers begin their performances 
very early in each year; even 
before the buds have opened out 
and spread over them their canopies of green leaves, 
we find out some sunny morning, by the singing of 
birds, that spring must certainly have come. We 
even seem to recognise the very same set of choristers 
chirping their matins, and singing their madrigals, 
as performed on the very same boughs the year 
before; and if some new members have been added 
to the choir in the place of old favourites, we 
may be pretty sure that they are the offspring of 
choristers we have formerly heard, and have learned 
their different notes from their parents. The same 
warbling and whistling, interspersed with little chirps 
and twittersthe same trills, and quavers, and gurglings, 
and-pipings of each, according to its kind; in fact, we 
have heard the young birds practising these very notes 
soon after they were fledged in the former year, and 



 .   0  

know well how, after beginning with faint twitters and 
small peep-peeps, they managed at last to bring out 
the same notes as the parent birds, who had fed and 
tended them so carefully from the time they had come 
out of the egg. All the notes, no matter how they differ 
from each other according to the species of bird, seem 
to express but one feeling among them. All this gushing 
out of sweet sounds seems to say,  How happy we are ! 
How pleasant this sunshine is again! How we are all 
going to enjoy ourselves now winter is gone! One 
thing very certain is, that the singing of birds is not to 
give us pleasure alone, and by-and-by we shall find that 
it is not even to give vent only to the joy of living, and 
feeling the pleasant air and the warm sunshine, nor 
because they are satisfied to find that the soil is again 
soft and damp, so that worms and slugs may be expected, 
and that the buds begin to swell, promising future cater 
pillars and grubs, but because the male birds, who are the 
principal singers, have each a mate to choose for the 
coming season, and must make himself agreeable, and 
win the affections of that particular hen-bird of its kind 
with whom he has chanced to form an acquaintance. 

As that wren pours forth its delicate trilling, as if it 
would crack its little throat, we may find on a bough very 
near at hand a young Jenny wren sitting, listening at 
tentively with her head a little on one side. She thinks 
it no doubt a most charming song, and knows quite well 
that it is intended for her. She feels herself chosen as 
the mate of the singer, and is satisfied that her career in 


io  


 . 


that years life should be settled. And so with the young 
thrush who sits perched on a laburnum tree near our 
window, pouring forth all the lovely notes he learned 
from his parent the last summer. He means to have a 
mate and a nest of his own this season, and sings his 
very best to attract and please the young hen-thrush who 
is listening to his song on the neighbouring acacia tree. 
And thus with them all. They choose their mates all on 
a sudden, and never change their minds about the 
matter; and the female birds are generally very easy to 
be convinced that the male bird who has come after her 
and sang to her, and plumed his feathers before her, and 
shown off his little airs and graces in her sight, is the 
best and prettiest and most loveable wren, linnet, 
chaffinch, or thrush, as the case may be, in the whole 
garden; and henceforth they are a pair, and there 
becomes but one mind and purpose between them. 

Perhaps our more usual feeling with regard to birds, 
as we merely hear them, is that they are as careless and 
idle as they are happy; but this is to have a very wrong 
notion about them; and at all times amid the pouring 
out of their gladness in song, they are thinking of 
business, and during the greater part of the pleasant days 
of spring and early summer, the birds of our garden are 
as busy as their neighbours, the bees. Singing is all very 
well at the proper time, but when their mates are once 
chosen they have a great deal of important business 
before them, and no time to lose. They have to set 
about building a nest, ready for the eggs which the hen 


 . I Op 

will soon laya snug little nest, somewhere out of sight, 
just the right size and form for the number of eggs which 
will lie at the bottom, and for the mother-bird to sit 
comfortably upon them, so as to give them the warmth 
from her body that they will need for coming to per 
fectionand by coming to perfection we mean coming 
to be birds, instead of eggs. 

Let us only watch, as spring advances, the doings of 
birds, and we shall see many tokens of this nest-building 
going on. We shall observe birds with twigs and the 
fibres of plant-roots in their beaks, flitting hastily by. 
Others with long straws streaming after them, of which 
they have tight hold at one end. Others with tufts of 
hay and bits of rag. Others with little flakes of wool, 
which they have found on the brambles of a neighbouring 
common, left by the sheep the year before. Others with 
long hairs from the tails of horses and cows, and others 
with bits of cobwebin fact, all sorts of materials are 
turned to account in the nests built by different species 
of birds. The whole time and thought, as it were, of 
the busy creatures are engrossed in their task, and every 
flight is engaged in the search for something which can 
be made use of in nest-building; and if they cannot find 
at hand what they want, they will go to considerable 
distances sometimes in search of them, or in some cases 
use substitutes when the nest is wanted in a hurry; though 
each nest is sure under any circumstances to have some 
thing betokening the kind of bird who was its architect, 
A soft pad of wool or hay, old feathers or tufts of down 


no 


 . 


felted together, forms often the foundation of the nests of 
small birds, and then the root fibres, twigs, straw, and 
hay are woven round and round, and twisted in and out, 
and bent and tucked in and plaited together, till all is 
snug and warm and compact, just of the form and size 
to best suit the body of the mother-bird. Some of our 
small birds use a great deal of moss in the construction 
of their nests, such as the chaffinch, who also adorns his 
with little scraps of grey and yellow lichen from the bark 
of the very old apple tree in which he builds it, so that 
it is scarcely distinguishable from the branches. Nothing 
indeed can be more carefully and artfully chosen than 
the nooks in which most of them are placed, whether 
they be hid among the ivy on a wall or in the centre of 
a bushy evergreen, or placed so high up among the 
branches of a tree as to be beyond reach, and concealed 
from sight from below by the foliage. Shelter from wind 
and rain seems one object, and the other concealment 
from prying eyes. Even when we can see that a nest 
has been built in the centre of a hedge, we should 
almost be obliged to pull the hedge to pieces to get at 
it, yet the proprietors have a secret passage of their own 
among the twigs, and find their way in and out to it, 
with the greatest ease. With the swallows, who build 
under the eaves of our house, there is but one kind of 
material needed, since their nests are built up with little . 
beak-fulls of wet clay, the birds travelling backwards and 
forwards with unwearying industry and perseverance to 
the banks of a pond a long flight off to get it. 


 . 


Ill 


Nest-building is a sort of joint concern between the pair 
who are going to set up house-keepingor, rather, who 
aim at securing the safety and comfort of their future family, 
since the nest is rather a family cradle than a dwelling. 
They choose together the situation where it shall be 
placed, and as the male bird goes on an exploring ex 
pedition, the female may be seen flying after him from 
bush to bush and tree to tree, the male uttering little 
chirps by way of signals to induce her to follow him. 
When the best possible situation is found the building 
commences, the female bird in most instances staying at 
home to weave the materials together, and the male 
going forth to collect them. Nothing can be more 
wonderful, when we come to think of it, than the fact 
that when young and inexperienced birds of any species 
begin to build a nest for their future family, they set 
about it in exactly the same way as their parents did 
before they came into lifeeach bird of each kind from 
generation to generation making its nest in exactly the 
same way as its ancestor-birds have done. It may seem 
possible that they have some kind of remembrance of 
the snug little home in which each of them first saw 
lightwhere they first pecked themselves out of the 
egg, and where they had such delicious caterpillars, 
grubs, and flies brought to them by their parents, but 
they can have no remembrance of nest-building, and of 
how to first set about it, and what materials to use, and 
where to build. Each bird builds its nest from the same 
kind of instinct, the same skill that needs no teaching, as 


XI  


 . 


all animals are supplied with, for adapting their lives to 
their nature and wants, while human beings have to learn 
the arts they practise. A poet has so well described this 
natural cleverness on the part of birds, that the lines 
deserve to be given in every book which tells of nest 
building : 

Mark it well, within, without ; 

No tool had he to fix, no glue to join, 

No bodkin to insert; his little beak was all ; 

And yet how neatly finished ! 

What nice hand, with all the means and implements of art, 
And twenty years apprenticeship to boot, 

Could fashion such another ?  



Nest of Missel Thrush. 


By the time the nest is completed, the hen is quite 
ready to lay her eggs in itthree, four, five, six, seven, 
or even with some birds as many as ten or fifteen 
whitish, blueish, greenish, speckled, or spotted, as 'the 
case may be, and all are laid pretty nearly at the same 
time, since all are hatched nearly together ; and once 



 .       

having settled herself upon them, pressing her soft warm 
breast above them, she never leaves the nest. All the 
food she gets is brought to her by her attentive mate. 
What he likes best himself he brings to her, whether it 
be last years seeds or berries, or fresh young worms and 
slugs, or caterpillars picked off leaves, or flies caught on 
the wing. And when after sitting day after day for 
perhaps a couple of weeks, she at last feels or hears the 
first attempts made by a young bird to escape from its 
egg, she helps him to free himself from the shell, and then 
one after another making these attempts, and extricating 
themselves from the eggs, the remains of egg-shell are 
thrown out of the nest, and the young family of soft 
yellow or pale brown little fledglings are ready to be fed. 
They soon make their wants known by the open beaks 
which gape for food, and by the small piping cry from 
their little throats which asks for it as plainly as birds can 
speak. 

Then comes more business for the tender and 
faithful parents, both male and female, whose whole 
concern is now to provide for the helpless little ones. 
Backwards and forwards they may be seen flying with 
the provender which will best suit the tastes and serve as 
nourishment for them. Even the sparrows, which we are 
accustomed to look upon as the most frivolous and 
aimless of birds, are most careful and indefatigable 
providers of food for their young, and have been found 
to feed them as often as thirty-six times in the course of 
an hour. Chaffinches and goldfinches are equally per- 


   


  J   


 . 


severing in flying to and fro in their search for the 
dainty caterpillars and worms, which they bring to their 
young in their snug little oblong nests in the forks of our 



apple-trees. The thrushes begin in the very earliest 
dawnwhen we should perhaps still call it nightto 
seek food for their young, and go on feeding them until 
the sun is high in the heavens, and have been found 
by those who have carefully counted their journeys back 
wards and forwards to have fed their young as often as 
two hundred and sixteen times in seven hours. The 
blackbird does not get up quite so early in the morning, 
and yet with its mate will collect an immense number of 
worms and slugs for their young; and among the birds that 
frequent our gardens none are more tender and devoted 
parents in the care of their young fledglings (which are 
scarcely larger than humming birds), than the race of 
titmice, who are found to take small grubs and flies to 


 .       

their nests as often as four hundred and seventy-five 
times in the course of a day. Such birds as those who 
require food for their young which can be obtained in 
great abundance, are often able to hatch and rear two or 
three broods in the year, so that their time is fully 
employed during the whole spring and summer with their 
family duties. 

And all such birds have most cunning ways of 
getting at food for themselves and their young, which 
their sight is most acute in detecting. Their eyes 
have, in fact, the power both of telescopes and micro 
scopes, for they see at great distances, and can perceive 
very small objects. From on high, when flying, they will 
see the worm which has ventured to come above ground, 
and they can also detect upon buds and leaves the very 



small eggs of insects, and minute flies and beetles, which 
we could only see with a magnifying glass. The same 
bird that can distinguish such small objects near to it, 
can see distant objects twenty times further off than men 
and dogs can perceive them. Even in the most rapid 
flights, birds will detect beneath them the objects they are 
in search of for food, and dart upon them with such cer 
tainty and precision that they never fail to capture them. 


     


Il   . 

Although birds are so different in their outward forms 
to quadrupeds, fishes, and reptiles, yet when all the 
animals on the face of the earth are divided into a few 
large divisions (sorted, as it were, into a few sorts), 
according to their internal structure, birds are found to 
be like them in what causes them all to be called ver- 
tebrated animals, which means that they have all spines 
or back-bones, made up of a number of other small 
bones fitting into each other very closely, and making 
one long, strong, and more or less flexible bone, with 
which all the other bones of their bodies are connected. 
The rest of the structure of such animals is more com 
plicated and perfect, and makes their life a higher kind 
of life than that of other animals; and it is because our 
own bodies are formed in so many respects on the same 
plan, that we feel as if we were somehow more nearly 
related to birds than to the other dwellers in our garden 
which we have already described. We have seen how 
bees and ants have some powers and clever ways, which 
have a sort of likeness to the powers and ways of human 
beings, but we know that the forms of their bodies in no 
respect resemble ours. It is not however because birds 
have two eyes, two legs, and that they utter sounds from 
their throats, that they choose their mates, build nests, 
and feed their young, that they are like human beings, 
and that is found this sort of relationship, but because 
in all the bony structures of their bodies, which other 
wise in outward form are so different, there is a great 
resemblance to that of ours, and because many internal 


 . 


      


parts or organs, such as the brain, the heart, the lungs, 
the liver, etc., are like ours. The circulation of warm 
red blood through the arteries and veins of birds is also 
like that of our bodies, as well as the manner in which 
air is taken in by the lungs and changes the nature of the 
blood. 

But birds differ from us so very greatly in one of 
their powers that we are sometimes inclined almost to 
envy themfor what would we not give to be able to 
fly ?and when we ask ourselves how and why a bird is 
able to fly, we find that it is in all that gives them the 
power of flying, that their bodies are quite unlike ours. 
The forms of their bones, their number and situation, 
such as their spines, skulls, breast bones, ribs, the bones 
of their legs, and each of their wings are a good deal 
like our own, but the .structure of the bones themselves 
is quite different. The bones of human beings and of 
quadrupeds are mostly solid, or have the hollow space 
within them filled up with marrow ; but the bones of birds 
are hollow, and have only air within them, and this 
hollowness, while it makes them much lighter, rend'ers 
them strong in proportion to the quantity of bony matter 
of which they are composed. Besides these hollow 
bones, the whole body of a bird has many cavities and 
passages, which can be filled as well as their bones with 
air from their lungs, and we know how all the longest 
feathers in their wings and tails have hollow parts which 
we call the quills, just where they are inserted into the 
body, and into these quill-feathers air from its lungs can 


IlS  . 

also pass. A birds body is thus like a small balloon, 
divided into many compartments, but in order that 
balloons may be buoyant, or ready to rise and float 
in the air, the air inside them must be lighter than the 
surrounding air, or they must be filled with some gas 
which is lighter than common air. Now, as water can 
become exceedingly light, orwhich is the same thing 
turned into steam by heat, so can air be made much 
more rare (or thin) and light by being heated. A fire- 
balloon rises because the air inside it is heated, and so 
made lighter than the surrounding air, and it is found 
that the air within a birds body is heated by the quick 
circulation of its blood, which is kept up by its active 
habits. A bird is almost always in motion, except when 
roosting; a large bird taking long flights, and little birds, 
such as we have in our gardens, constantly taking short 
flights, hopping about here and there, and flitting from 
bough to bough and tree to tree. The quantity of food 
which even such small birds consume is also another 
means by which the heat of their bodies is kept up. It 
has been found by experiments that they eat as much or 
more of their kind of food in a day than a man can eat 
of meat in the same time, and while in flight great 
quantities of air must be constantly supplied to their 
lungs. All this exercise and food and air helps to make 
the blood of the bird circulate very rapidly, and renders 
the air in its bones and the other air-cells of its body 
very warm and very light, while its clothing of feathers 
and down prevents the heat being given out to the 
surrounding cold air. 


 . XI  

We cannot examine closely the mechanism of a birds 
wing without finding out how wonderfully it is adapted 
for its purpose. We see how accurately and smoothly 
its delicate feathers are lapped one upon another as the 
wing is closed against the side of the body, and how 
easily they are spread out, like the unfurling of a fan, so 
as to beat against the elastic air, which springing back 
again impels the bird upward and onward in its flight. 
But for wings to be turned to account, and used so con 
stantly, the muscles and tendons which connect them 
with the body, and give them motion at the will of the 
bird, are needed to be much stronger in proportion to its 
size than those of a mans arm, whose bony structure it 
greatly resembles. Men have sometimes fancied they 
might be able to fly by means of wings attached to their 
arms, but have found that their muscles were not strong 
enough for the flapping of wings, even if their bodies 
could be made buoyant enough. The muscles and 
tendons also in the legs of birds are very strong in pro 
portion to their size, and are needed to help them to first 
spring into the air before the wings are expanded, so as 
to present a sufficiently large surface for the air to buoy 
them up. The whole form of a birds body is in fact 
such as to assist them in flight. The sharp beak cutting 
the air easily, and acting like the prow of a ship. The 
tail serving as a rudder to steer their course, and the 
wings answering the purpose both of sails and oars. All 
these peculiarities in the bird (and perhaps there are 
others which we do not understand) give the bird its 


   0 


. . 


power of rising into the air, soaring to great heights, and 
flying great distances, without any effort or difficulty. 



The power of birds to sustain themselves in the air, 
and perform long journeys without resting, proves the 
great muscular strength which they possess, and these 
long flights are very remarkable in those birds which 
migrate, and which according as seasons change from 
cold to hot or from hot to cold change their places of 
abode, and fly north or south to other countries, where 
the climate is such as will suit their natures. Some birds 
come to England only during our winter, and cannot 
bear the warmth of our summers, and others come to us 
only for the summer, and leave us when our winter 
approaches. It is these latter who whilst with us lay 
their eggs and rear their young, so that they seem to 
belong to us, but they have so strong an instinct, im 
pelling them to avoid our cold winters, that they have no 
sooner brought up their young than they prepare to leave 
us. The cuckoo does not even stay to hatch or rear her 


 . 


    I 


young, but dropping her eggs into the nests of other 
birds, leaves them to feed her offspring with their own 
a practice which, however we may admire her curious 
note, and like to hear it as a token of coming summer, 
makes us rather despise her. The migratory bird whom 
we perhaps know most about is the swallow, who does 
not so much dwell in our garden, as he makes our 
dwelling his, by building underneath the eaves of our 
houses his little clay nest. He requires for it just the 
shelter which our roof or some jutting-out ledge affords 
him, and there builds it up of clay or mud, fetched bit 
by bit from the sides of some neighbouring pond, occa 
sionally mixing up with it a little grass or straw, to make 
the clay hold together, as a mason mixes a little horse 
hair in his plaster. When the little earthen cradle is 
formed, the swallow lines it carefully with feathers or 
down, to make it a comfortable bed for the future young, 
and then the female swallow lays her eggs in it, an 
opening having been left at the top large enough to creep 
in and out. When hatched, there is no bird who tends 
and feeds its young more assiduously than the swallow, 
and we see him and his mate the whole day long flying 
backwards and forwards with food for them, the heads of 
the little fledglings popping up at the opening of the 
little clay basket, ready to receive it. When old enough 
to leave the nest, and yet not equal to long flights, we 
may notice them sitting in a row on a tree-branch near 
at hand, waiting to be fed by their parents in turn, and 
when full-grown and strong on the wing, the parent 


     


 . 


birds, having done their duty by them, leave them to 
cater for themselves, and know them no longer. After 
perhaps rearing two broods during the summer months, 
and by the time that autumn has brought cold nights oi 
some early morning frosts, an irresistible impulse fills the 
whole being of the swallows, urging them to seek a warm 
climate and a brighter sky, and all their swallow-friends 
and neighbours have the same impulse within them. 
They appear to understand each other, and to appoint 
a place of meeting, and after collecting together in a 
large flock from every quarter, some fine day about the 
middle of October, they are seen to whirl round and 
round for a while high up in the air, as if to make sure 
of their route, and then start off southwards on their 
air-voyage, flying over land and seaour channelthe 
continent of Francethe Mediterraneanto descend at 
last somewhere we may conclude, among the palm and 
date trees beneath the sunny sky of Africa, there to 
enjoy themselves during the frosts and snow of our 
winter. More than a thousand miles must the swallows 
fly before arriving at the climate they desire to reach, but 
they are found to take a rest sometimes on their way, 
settling for a night on an island of the Mediterranean it 
may be, or crowding the rigging and decks of a vessel 
at sea, or even sometimes allowing themselves to drop 
on to the surface of the sea with their wings expanded, 
so that they are borne up for a while and gain a short 
rest from flight. The instinct to fly away to a warmer 
climate is sometimes so strong in a swallow, that if any*- 


 . 


     


thing has prevented it from completing the rearing of its 
second brood of young before the time when the mi 
gration of its neighbours begins, it will leave them to 
their fate, and join the party of emigrants who are about 
to start on their air-voyage to the south. 

Just when the swallow leaves us, a beautiful little bird 
called the siskin comes to England, to spend the winter, 



Siskin. 


from the north of Europe. He has been born among 
the firs and pines of Norway or Sweden, where his food 
is the seeds of their cones, so that he is mostly to be 
found during his stay with us in plantations and woods 
where these trees grow; but he comes also to our 
gardens when we have larches or other cone-bearing trees* 




     


 . 


where he is as active and agile as the titmouse in search 
ing out his favourite food among their branches. When 
spring returns he flies off home again, to make his nest 
and rear his young in the far north. 

Starlings are also another race of birds who make our 
dwelling theirs for a part of the year, and who then leave 
us after they have reared their young. Up in one of our 
unused chimneys, or behind a parapet, or in some roof- 
gutter, they make their spacious nests of sticks and straw 
and moss, and there rear their family. They are a noisy, 
bustling, fussy set of birds, making all manner of odd 
squeaks and pipings, and seeming always to be scrambling 
and shuffling about, as we overhear their doings from 
some room beneath the roof. One can scarcely fancy 
them to be the same birds when we see them handsome 
and spruce walking about our lawns, with their long glossy 
brown backs and mottled breasts, picking up worms and 
slugs. The young starlings and their parents seem to 
keep together and live as one family longer than most 
other birds, even after the former are well able to pro 
vide for themselves; and then, as autumn cold sets in, 
they suddenly take their departure, joining some convoy 
of starlings about to seek a pleasanter climate than ours; 
and we are not sorry to lose them, though the chances 
are that the same starlings will return again to our roof 
in the following spring. 

Most of the small birds which are dwellers in our 

i 

gardens are called perchers, from their being accustomed 
to perch and roost on the branches of trees, and for this 


 . 


habit of life their feet are well adapted, the toes and 
claws readily clinging to a branch. Three of the toes 
are placed in front and one behind, while the tendons of 
the leg which pass into each toe are tightened by the 
weight of the birds body as it roosts, so that even when 
asleep it is clinging safely to the boughs. Just a little 
difference is to be seen in the feet of such perchers as 
walk instead of hopping, the foot being spread out 



   



   Foot of Wagtail, which walks. 
Foot of Hedge Sparrow, which hops. 


flatter, while birds which climb like the woodpecker have 
two toes before and two behind, which enables it to cling 
with its body quite upright as it searches the bark on 
the trunks of trees for insects or their eggs, or wood 
boring worms. The feet and claws of each bird are as 
suited to their mode of life as their beaks and bills, and 
vary greatly among the many varieties of birds. Even in 
the bills of such as visit or live in our gardens a differ- 




     


 . 


ence is found between those who feed wholly on seeds 
and berries, those who feed on worms and snails, and 
those who live only on insects. 



x Head of Chaffinch, a seed-eatmg bird. 

  Head of Missel Thrush, who lives on worms, slugs, and 
snails, and also on berries and fleshy fruit, such as cherries. 

  Head of Flycatcher, who lives only on flies and- other 
insects on the wing. 


These little birds with their short necks, sharp-pointed 
bills, and feet fitted for clinging to the boughs of trees, 
form a great contrast to the duck, with its strong broad 

bill, used half as spoon and half as 
spade, as it searches for food in the 
mud of its pond, and paddles itself 
about with its web feet; and still 
more unlike them is the stately 
swan, with its long flexible neck, 
which it can send down deep into the water without 



*mr 

Foot of Swan. 




 . T j 

moving the rest of its body, while its feet are also 
suited for swimming by the webs of skin between the 
toes, which render them like broad cars. 



Besides the pleasure afforded us by the notes and songs 
of birds, they are constantly supplying us with a source 
of interest as we watch their ways and doings. Even 
the sparrows that we see from our windows the whole 
year round are very amusing with their eager restlessness, 
and often rouse our attention with their squabbles among 
themselves for the possession of a bit of material for 
nest-building, or a scrap of food. They seem to have 
so strong a sense of the rights of property, when the 
property happens to be their own ! We may notice a 
sparrow in the act of carrying off a feather towards the 
lining of his nest, pursued angrily by another sparrow, 
to whom it had perhaps originally belonged, and a fight 
in the air ensuing, the feather is dropped. As it floats 
down t it is perhaps captured by a third sparrow, who 
























     


 . 


carries it off in triumph. How odd, too, are the sly 
glances of a sparrow from side to side who has stolen a 
bit of cold potatoe, or sopped bread intended for the 
poultry, and which is too soft perhaps to carry off, and 
may have another claimant before he has time to 
eat it. 

The house-sparrow builds a rather untidy nest, more 
curious for the variety of materials of which it is com 
posed than for skill of workmanship. He benefits by 
his nearness to us in borrowing from us all manner of 
scraps that fall out of window, or escape from the 
sweepings of a housebits of rag and muslin, and even 
ribbon and lace, are all turned to account, and woven in 
among the straw and twigs. 

  Little thinks my lady fair, 

As she goes by with mincing air, 

How the pert sparrow overhead 

Has robbed her gown to make his bed. * 

The robin is, perhaps, our next most familiar friend 
and bird-neighbour, and though he sings all the year 
round, we most value his delicate little warble when 
other birds are silent. He seems to know that at last he 
will be listened to, as late in autumn he perches on some 
window ledge or balcony and gives us a succession of 
shrill yet perfectly sweet trills and quavers, showing off 
the utmost compass of his voice, and we like to see 

* Mary Howittwhose charming poems about the lives and ways 
of birds help us to know, as well as to love them. 


 . 


     


the full black eye and enquiring side-long turn of 
the head as he listens himself to any sound as if trying 
to understand it. He is not afraid of us, and will eat 
any food we like to give him in winter, while in summer 
he lives on earth-worms, fruit and berries, and is quite 
independent of us. Many instances are known of robins 
coming inside a house, or outhouse to build, and they 
and their mates are so faithful to each other that it seems 
as if they paired for life. A pretty story has been told 
us of a fall of snow coming so late in spring that the 
snow lay heavy on the ivy-leaves against a wall, among 
which a robin family had their nest. The snow melted 
and then froze again so as to form a veil of ice before 
the nest in which the mother and her young ones were 
crowded, while the father bird roosted at a little dis 
tance. When morning comes, what is the dismay of 
the latter, when wanting to give his family their break 
fast, he finds that a hard and glossy barrier prevents his 
getting to them! He tries with all his might to hammer 
an opening through it, but in vain; and then flying off, he 
fetches back another strong robin friend, and the beaks 
of both succeed at last in making an aperture, so that the 
hungry little ones can be fed. 

The wren also ventures near our houses and is almost 
as familiar as the robin, and sings too the whole year 
through, and on winter nights is glad to come and get 
the shelter of our roof, as he roosts in company with a 
party of other wrens, to keep each other warm. They 
begin to build very early in the spring, and make their 

K 


   0 


 . 


nests in some hedge or evergreen tree for the sake of the 
shelter of its foliage. The nest is oval and rounded over 
at the top, with a small opening at the side through 
which the hen-bird can creep in and out, and soon as 
many as nine or ten small pinkish white eggs are laid in 
it, on which the hen sits patiently for about ten days, 
while her mate brings her food. When the little ones 
are hatched both parents feed them assiduously, taking 
care that each small fledgling gets its share. The egg of 
the golden-crested wren, our smallest English bird, seems 
indeed a tiny object compared with that of the blackbird, 
which is the largest of the birds who build in our gardens. 



Egg of Blackbird. Egg of Golden-crested 

Wren. 

Of all our garden birds, perhaps the tit-mice are the 
prettiest race, from their delicate forms and graceful agile 
movements, and they are interesting in all their ways. 
The blue tit is not at all particular where he builds his 
nest, and if he cannot find a convenient nook among the 
branches of an apple or other fruit tree, will build it in a 
hole in a garden wall, and has even been known to make 
one in a garden pot, or the spout of a pump. The hen 
lays from ten to twelve eggs, and lor the little ones 


 . I I 

when hatched the parents have to supply as many 
as six or seven hundred caterpillars in a day. Early 
in spring it is curious to watch the tit-mice as they are 
busy among the buds and leaves of trees where insects 
eggs and small caterpillars are to be found, and we may 
notice how, after beginning at the lowest boughs and* 
travelling gradually upwards, a tit-mouse will make a 
thorough survey of a larch tree, examining every  green 
tassel just put forth, now pecking at those above the 
bough, and now clinging with its body downwards as it 
clears those beneath it; and then with the agility and 
security of a slack-rope dancer, suddenly dropping to the 
end of a delicate twig, swings backwards and forwards, 
still pecking at each tiny bud as it clings. 

The long-tailed tit-mouse is a lovely little bird, and 



Long-tailed Tit. 


he makes a most exquisitely formed nest. It is so like 
the shape of a flask that in some parts of England it is 


k   


T   


 . 


called the bottle tit. The outside is covered with lichen, 
the silvery side of which is carefully placed outwards so 
as to give it an ornamental finish. Inside it has a soft- 
lining of cobweb and innumerable small feathers for the 
eggs to lie on, and when the young birds are hatched 
they may be found by any one cruel enough to disturb 
the curious nest, all huddled together at the bottom like 
a ball of down. As they glow older they contrive to 
climb up to the opening of the nest at the top, and their 
little heads can be seen all in a bunch with the yellow 
beaks gaping for food. When older still, a family of tits 
will sit in a row on a branch outside the nest like child 
ren on a bench at school, waiting to be fed in turn. 
There seems to be a great attachment between these 
tit brothers and sisters, since they will keep together all 
through an autumn as one family, before each begins 
to shift for itself. We cannot perhaps talk of the singing 
of titmice, for theirs is but a lively note, as is the case 
with many other birds, but it serves as a sort of 
accompaniment to the songs of those who have more 
musical powers. Put into letters, the note of the tit is 
 chica-chica-chee-chee-chirr-r-rand as the mother bird 
sits at the bottom of the nest on her eggs, all in the 
dark, we cannot but fancy that her mate must now and 
then peep in at the top, and make this note of his express 
somehow an enquiry as to  how she is going on, and 
whether there are any signs of young ones coming out 
of the eggs. 

Some of our garden birds seem to have an odd fancy 


 . 


for pecking at blossoms and flowers and destroying them 
as if in mere wantonness. We jnust either imagine that 
they have pleasure in the mere picking of flowers, like 
very young children who gather buttercups and daisies, 
and the next moment let them fall again, or believe that 
birds have learned from bees to get at the sweet juices 
of flowers. We too often find a border of gay crocuses 
in spring cropped off by sparrows, while chaffinches will 
peck off the blossoms of a plum or cherry tree, till the 
ground is white with the torn petals. 

In their search after food birds often seem to think 
about how best to capture their prey. A sparrow may 
be seen beating a bush with its wings to shake down 
the caterpillars from its leaves, and then will hop down 
to pick them up. Thrushes, who require larger game, 
and more solid food from the size of their bodies, will 
often find snails so shut up in their shells, that they 
cannot get at them, and overcome the difficulty by 
knocking the shells against a large stone, until a 
hole is made large enough to get at the soft body 
within. Other birds, as the woodpecker, are able to 
tell by knocking with their bills against the bark of 
trees, whether wood-boring grubs are within; and the 
little bird called the creeper runs up and down the 
trunks of larches and fir-trees like a mouse, in search 
of eggs and insects in the bark. 

And all these birds do good rather than harm to us. 
There is no saying how we might not be over-run with 
caterpillars, grubs, slugs, and worms eating up our fruit 


     


 . 


and vegetables, nor how the air might' be swarming be 
fore summer is over with flies, gnats, and other insects 
on the wing, were it not for our small birds, who make 
them their food, or feed their youug with them. Even 
the seeds of wild plants, if they were not the food of 
many of our small birds, would cause the farmer great 
trouble if they were left to fall on the land and germinate. 
He might for instance have his fields quite over-run with 
thistles, were it not for birds who eat their downy seed, 
such as the goldfinch, who, while such an ornament to 
our gardens, likes nothing he can find there sd well as. 
the seed of the road-side thistle. 



In some parts of the world where we have colonies, 
the want of small birds is so much felt, that many 
attempts have been made to send out different kinds 
from England in large quantities, in order that when set 
free they may increase and multiply, and their descendants 
spread over the country to consume the worms and 























 . 


X    


caterpillars. To the settlers in such colonies the sight of 
an English sparrow, robin, or thrush, is a great source 
of delight, reminding them of their native land. 

It cannot however be denied that there are some of 
our garden birds, who when the sun has ripened the 
fruit on our trees, are too fond of helping themselves to 
it. We find our juicy pears pecked away to the core, 
and our purple plums laid bare to the stone, while 
bunches of well picked stones are found hanging where 
cherries should be ; but these latter we ought perhaps to 
consider as the property of our blackbirds, and to have 
been well earned by the part they take in our garden 
choir. They keep a close watch on our cherry trees 
from the time that they first come into blossom, and 
seem to know as well as any botanist how blossoms 
are needed for the production of fruit. How com 
placently they warble when the white petals having 
fallen off, green cherries are to be seen in their place. 
How closely they watch as the sun shines hotter and 
hotter, and the cherries swell and become fleshy, and 
white, and flushed with pink, and then redden and 
ripen. Just as we decide that it is time to gather our 
cherries we find they are gone,for have not the 
blackbirds found out like ourselves that they were ripe, 
and are they not their own property? We resign 
ourselves to our loss, as we remember the pleasure which 
the rich and mellow notes of these choristers have given 
us, whose song contrasts so well with the more varied 
and florid notes of the thrush. 


     


 . 


A naturalist who has studied for many years the va 
rious sounds produced by birds, tells us that he considers 
the mere chirping and twittering of birds to bear the 
same relation to their songs, as our talking does to our 
singing. He has observed, as indeed we all may do, that 
birds never actually sing when they are busy and have 
work in hand, whether it be nest building, feeding their 
young, or searching for their own food. At times their 
lively chirps and twitters seem as if they were talking to 
themselves or their neighbours about their doings and 
intentions, and it all sounds as if they were thoroughly 
in earnest and most deeply interested in what they are 
about, and eager to get it done. Only when at leisure 
after work is over do they really sing, and then it 
appears to be purely for their own and their mates 
satisfaction and pleasure, and as if the production of 
sweet sounds pleased them just as it pleases human 
musicians to produce them. They generally perch on a 
branch near the outside of a tree or bush, so as to let 
the sounds go forth into the air un-hindered by the 
foliage, while they seem to enjoy bringing out all the tones 
they know, and once having begun will go on singing till 
disturbed by some movement or unusual sound. Perhaps 
the charm to us in the songs of birds, is that they 
appear to express only happiness and contentment, 
while the noises made by other animals sound as if 
the expression of wants or dissatisfaction, such as the 
bleating of lambs, the lowing of cows, the mewing of 
cats, and the barking of dogs. 


 .      

 

Thrushes and blackbirds, wrens, robins, black-throats, 
and linnets are the choristers whose performances in our 
gardens are such a pleasure to us for a large portion of 
the year, and seldom all fail us; but if our gardens are 
far enough from towns, and in situations away from the 
noises of the high roads and the voices and tread of 
passengers, we may reckon on having in early summer 
the delight of hearing the song of the nightingale, whom 
we may consider to be our chief chorister. This little, 



Our Chief Chorister. 


homely-looking, pale brown bird, has almost a world 
wide reputation, since it is not only to be found in many 
warm and temperate climates, but has had its notes 
described and praised by the poets of all countries. It 
scarcely needs a description, however, to let us know 
when we are listening to the far-famed nightingale, so 
distinct and superior are its notes to those of any other 
bird. In some shrubbery in a garden, or some thicket 
near at hand, it may have built very close to the ground 
a nest for its young, where no eye but its own can see it, 




      . 

 

and to which there is a cunning little passage among the 
tangled twigs and crowded leaves, the secret of which is 
known only to himself and his mate. Not far off, 
perched on some tall shrub or the lowest branches of a 
tree, when his family duties are over for the day, in the 
quiet of evening, but more often after other birds have 
gone to roost for the night, he will pour himself out in song. 
All manner of notes and varied trills will gush forth from 
his little throat. It is as if each passage of his song 
were composed at the moment, just as his fancy pleases 
him; but no ! for the whole makes up what we have 
heard before, and is peculiar to every bird of his kind; 
and as the singer pours out the lovely strains, it tells us 
not only of his gladness and satisfaction in living, but 
seems to our fancy, as it rises up sweet and almost 
solemn into the still night air, as if it were a hymn of 
praise and thanksgiving for all the joys of his little life. 

We conclude our history of some of the birds which 
frequent our gardens and delight us with their notes and 
songs, leaving much which is still to be told of their lives 
and natures; but we shall be satisfied if our   
shall succeed in making its young readers feel how they 
will in future like to observe and discover for themselves 
more about them; and this they can easily do. For, 
far better than any written histories of birds is that 
which we all can observe for ourselves of the lives 
and ways of those who inhabit and frequent even 
small gardens; and still better will it be should such 
observations lead to an interest being felt also in the 


 . 


     


birds of our fields and woods, our rivers, lakes, and 
sea shores. In all these almost countless tribes and 
families of birds, more and more striking proofs are to 
be found of the wonderful tenderness of nature and 
strength of instinct which has been given to them, and 
how every part of their curiously varied forms, and every 
peculiarity in their habits, is suited to the places where 
their lives are led, or we may  sayhow powers have 
been bestowed on them by the great Giver of their lives, 
to enable them to adapt those lives to all that surrounds 
them. 



Young Thrushes. 


   0 


 . 


  VII. 



SEEN AFTER SUNSET. 


OW much of the life and movement 
and various sounds of a summers 
day in our garden seems to 
have come to an end with the 
setting of the sun! The last 
bee has by that time returned to the hive with 
its load of honey; the last ant has hurried across 
the garden paths, and gone down to the sub 
terranean city; the butterflies are all gone, and 
a lull has come in the songs of birds; but even when 
twilight begins to creep on, and all the golden and rosy 
streaks and flushes have faded out of the western sky, 
there is still some life to be found, and the ways of 
many creatures are still to be noticed. Swarms of midges 
and gnats are flying in the air, seeming to dance up and 
down chasing each other, which were born perhaps only 
an hour before, and whose short lives will be ended 
before the morrow. We may watch the little sharp 
billed fly-catcher darting in among them, and returning 
each time to the exact spot whence he came, and con 
tinuing his sport until his slender beak is bristled with 




 .       

the prey he is careful not to swallow, but is going to take 
home to his young ones. We hear the deep-toned 
droning hum of beetles, who fly so heavily and sleepily, 
while sober moths take the place of gay butterflies, 
flying with a lazy, slower flight, and hovering before the 
few flowers which keep open after sunset, and as they 
hover dip their long honey-tubes into their nectaries, 
without poising on the flower. When they do rest, too,. 



they are different from butterflies. Their antennae or 
feelers are bent down under their heads, while their 
soft wings are folded on their backs, and not lifted up 
and placed against each other like those of butterflies. 
It would seem as if they needed the cover of their wings 
in the cool evening air ; and the texture and colour of 
many of them are not very unlike that of grey and drab 
great-coats. Underneath these wrappers, however, they 
have often beautiful hind-wings, on which are lovely 
spots and patches of black and white or crimson and 
orange. The bodies of moths are generally more thick 
and clumsy-looking than those of butterflies, and are 
mostly covered with a longer and more shaggy down, and 


     


 . 


are not narrowed in at the waist like those of butterflies. 

Their feelers are short, and have no knobs at the end, 

and are sometimes feathered very delicately, and stand 

out from the head like flat plumes. It is the difference 
% 



of the feelers in this respect which makes it easy to 
detect a moth from a butterfly in most instances. Very 
few moths, too, fly by day. They seem to shun the 
bright sunshine, and to be altogether a more sober- 
minded race than their relations, the butterflies. Some 
of them, however, are very magnificent creatures in the 
colours and markings of their wings, and are no way 
behind the butterflies in beauty. The Emperor moth, 
for instance, has its four wings most grandly spotted and 
variegated with shades of brown, red, and grey, and deep 
orange. On each wing is a round black eye, encircled 
with rings. It begins life as a caterpillar of a most 
delicate pale green, with pink spots upon it. The Tiger 
moths are also a very handsome family of moths, and 
are so called from their wings being spotted with black, 
white, and yellow, like the skins ot tigers. What are 
called the Hawk-moths are some of them very large and 
handsome, with wings curiously marked and spotted with 


 . 


M  


black and brown. One of these, named from the spots on 
its wings, the Eyed Hawk-moth, is a very handsome and 
conspicuous creature, and might almost be taken for abird ? 
which perhaps it has a fear of happening, since it has a 
way of arranging its body and wings while it sleeps so as 
to look very much like a bit of twig with some dead 
leaves on it. The caterpillar is a large, hairless, fleshy 
creature, with a horn standing up at the end of its body 



Eyed Hawk-moth. 


and feeds on particular trees, such as the lime, the 
poplar, and the elm, etc. It burrows in the ground when 
it changes into a chrysalis, which is dark brown, and 
might easily be taken for a bit of rounded stick. The 
pupa or chrysalis of a moth is in fact never angular like 
that of a butterfly, but smoother and rounder. The 
most curious moth that we ever see in our gardens is 
what is called the Deaths-head moth, on account of the 


i   ( 


 . 


markings on its head, which have been fancied to look 
like a skull. It is, too, a dark and gloomy-looking crea 
ture, and many strange stories are told of it. Among 
others, it is said that in all its three states, as caterpillar, 
chrysalis, and moth, it utters a squeaking sound. This 
can often be heard from the moth when it is caught and 
held in the hand, when it sends forth a sharp cry like a 
mouse, but how it produces this sound has not been dis- 



Chrysalis of Moth. 


covered. This is the moth which is said to be so fond 
of honey, and will creep into hives, and with its short 
thick trunk suck out honey from the cells of a honey 
comb, and we have told in our   on bees, how 
cleverly the latter sometimes contrive to prevent the 
entrance of the great-bodied thief, by constructing narrow 
winding passages at the entrance of the hive. In other 
hives it has been found that after stinging the intruder to 




 . 


x    


death, the bees have covered up its body with a coating 
of propolis, or bee-glue, as if to embalm it like a 
mummy. All these large moths are a great contrast to 
other races of moths who are very small and most 
delicate in form. Some of these have transparent wings, 
and others are like mere tufts of white down or snow 
flakes. The Twenty-plumed moth which we sometimes 
see on our windows has its wings formed of separate 
feathers, somewhat like those of a bird, but only fit to 
make pens for the use of fairies. We may judge of the 
infinite variety of moths to be seen after sunseta few 
only flying by daywhen we are told that in England 
there have been found and named as many as nineteen 
hundred different species. 

Most of the large moths have also very large cater 
pillars, some of which are smooth and fleshy, and others 
are covered with thick hairs, as the caterpillar of the 
Tiger-moth, called  Woolly Bear, from its curious 
appearance. 



We all know too well the strange attraction which the 
flame of a candle has for these night-flying moths, and to 

L 





     


 . 


which we can seldom prevent their falling victims. It is 
said that if on a warm summer night we were to leave a 
lighted candle on a table near an open window, as 
many as twenty species of moth would be sure to be 
attracted to it before dawn. Among such are the 
   Swallow-moths, so called from the form of the wings, 



SWALLOW-MOTH/ 


which are prettily streaked with brown, white, and grey. 
The caterpillar of one of the species having two humps on its 
back, has caused it to be called  Dromedarius. A pretty 
moth called the Lackey-moth has been so called from 



Lackey-moth. 


the gaudy sort of livery worn by the caterpillar, which 
is often found in our gardens; while another little moth. 





 .      

the Poplar-moth, is remarkable for visiting us as'late 
in the year as December. The caterpillar is found in 
June, feeding on poplar leaves, and then, becoming a 
chrysalis in July, remains in that state till December, 
when the moth comes forththe very last of its race to 
make its appearance in the whole year. 

The way in which moths are attracted by the light of 
a flame was thought a great deal of by the ancient 
Greeks, who made no distinction between them and 
butterflies, calling them both Psyche, which also meant 



the soul.'* They had all manner of curious fancies and 
notions,about the strange and irresistible impulse which 
the moth has to so destroy itself, likening it to the way 

* See Third  , on the Butterfly. 


L   
















J   'S  . 

in which the soul is consumed by fiery passions, and 
inventing many stories about Psyche, which we may 
think perhaps more absurd than poetical, though they 
represented many of them very beautifully in sculpture 
and painting. 

Moths may seem to us to be but an idle and un 
interesting sort of insects, not so lively as butterflies 
and with none of the talents and powers of ants and 
bees, and useful only in providing for the continuance 
of their race by the laying of eggs; but among the 
caterpillars of moths we find a number of most curious 
powers, which they exert in the construction of places 
of shelter and concealment, in which they are safe from 
being captured by birds, or where they can be unseen 
and undisturbed whilst undergoing their change into the 
pupa or chrysalis state. Among these clever works are 
those of the leaf-rolling caterpillars, many examples of 



which we may find among the trees and plants of our 
gardens. Different caterpillars have different methods 





 . 


     


of setting about the task of making their place of shelter, 

but all make use of the power they have of spinning 

silken threads, with which they fasten together the 

portion of leaf which they fold or roll up. In some 

the leaf is merely closed together and fastened, while 

the caterpillar lies along the mid rib; in some die side 

of the leaf is rolled round into a long tube; and in others 

the point of the leaf is rolled round several times, and 

* 

fastened with silk cables both within and without. Other 
caterpillars pack together a bunch of leaves, winding the 
silk thread around them much as we tie up a nosegay 
with a string. Others make little bowers of leaves, in 
the midst of which they live and eat, concealed from the 
prying eyes of birds. The caterpillar of a very pretty 
little chocolate-coloured moth, who lays its eggs on the 
lilac tree, one egg only on one leaf, begins directly it is 
hatched to roll up its leaf into the form of a tunnel or 
gallery, where it may feed in safety, and then moves to 
another leaf when it has eaten up its dwelling-place. It 
begins to roll up the leaf from the point, and as the leaf 
is elastic, and has a tendency to spring back again, the 
little creature is obliged to fasten the roll with its silken 
cable as it proceeds, and then, when the roll is finished, 
ends by attaching little cables outside along the whole 
length of the tunnel. This seems as wonderful on the 
part of the little new-born caterpillar, if we come to 
think about it, as if a very young infant, soon after its 
birth, were to set about rolling itself up in a large piece 
of carpet or matting three or four times its own length, 


   0  . 

fastening it with cords inside and outside, so that it could 
not come unrolled again, and all the while somehow 
manufacturing the cords used in the process ! 

The caterpillars of some other moths display the 
talents of carpenters and masons, some of them living 
upon the fibre of wood, and while they eat into the bark 
of a tree making themselves galleries or cells, in which 
they change into the chrysalis state. This is done by 
the caterpillar of the Goat moth, which is a large moth 
often to be met with in many parts of England. Other 
caterpillars of moths will file off fine raspings of stone 
with their sharp cutting jaws or mandibles, and sticking 
these together with silky matter, form little stony cases 
around themselves whilst going through the change into 
the pupa state. 

The most curious of the moth tribe, however, is 
one which although it will live in England, cannot be 
called a native, viz., the moth which is the perfect insect 
of the caterpillar which we call the silk-worm. When we 
think of the vast amount of manufactured silks and 
ribbons, with which human beings in all parts of the 
world clothe and adorn themselves, and which is used 
in the hangings of the mansions of the rich and the 
palaces of the great, it is almost difficult to believe that 
it can be all produced from a caterpillar little more than 
two inches longthat all the cargoes of silk brought to 
be woven into such fabrics from India and China, and all 
that which is produced in Italy, and manufactured there 
and in France into silk and satin, gauze and velvet, is 


 .       

at first but the exceedingly fine thread spun by the 
caterpillar of a moth, in order to make for itself a kind 
of shroud or garment, in which it may hide itself while 
it undergoes the change into a little shapeless pupa or 
chrysalis. In most warm countries this same caterpillar 
is found, and we know not, for how many thousands of 
years the little creatures spun their cocoons, and changed 
into pupae and then again into moths, eating their way 
out from their silken garments, and leaving them upon 
bushes and boughs of trees, without anyone thinking of 
turning the empty little yellow pods to account. Pliny, 
the Roman writer and historian, tells the story of a young 
Greek girl called Pamphila, of the island of Coos, being 
the first to discover that she could wind the fine thread 
off from a cocoon, and that this led to its being spun 
together and then woven into a shining and flexible 
tissue. The story may be true of silk so turned to 
account in Greece, but there is no doubt that the in 
dustrious and ingenious Chinese people were the first to 
make use of the cocoons of this kind of caterpillar. 
They spun and wove the fine thread of the caterpillar 
thousands of years before it was brought into Europe, 
and even then the delicate fabric was so choice and 
dear that it is told of a Roman emperor that he would 
not allow his empress to have a robe of silk, on account 
of the expense. It helps to give us an idea of the fine 
ness of the silk thread in its natural state when we are told 
that in a single cocoon there are as many as nine hundred 
yards of it, while it takes the cocoons of two thousand 
silk-worms to spin a pound of silk ready for weaving. 


      . 

The silk which we use and prize so highly depends, 
however, after all, on the leaf of the mulberry tree. 
Unless the caterpillars are fed on these, no valuable silk, 
capable of being manufactured, is obtained. We may 
notice what a sticky, glutinous juice, is the sap of the 
mulberry leaf, and must think of this being, as it were, 
the foundation of silk, after undergoing a change while 
digested by the silk-worm. The Arabians have a proverb 
which says : 

 Patience ! and the mulberry leaf becomes satin  

and, we will add helped by the caterpillar, who eats 
it, and the ingenuity of human beings. 

When the shades of evening have deepened, and 
made the outlines of trees and plants quite indistinct, 
and when the last note or twitter of birds is silenced, 
and we fancy them all comfortably settled on their 
boughs for their nights roostingleaving, of course, the 
nests to the little ones, or to the mother birds who 
happen to be sitting on eggs; when all is very still, and 
we are perhaps watching some little star that has twinkled 
out of the dark grey sky, we are startled for a moment 
by what seems like the rapid flight across the window 
of a bird with a broken wing, so irregular is it and 
zig-zag.  A bat!  some one exclaims ; and before the 
words are uttered another flies by, or the first returns 
again. We know not whence they come, nor where 
they are going; but we presume that they are after the 
beetles and moths, or other insects to be met with at 


 . 


   S  


that time of evening. It may be that there is a bats 
nest in a wall in some old farm buildings or stables not 
far off, or in the village church tower ; but wherever it is 
that they live, the secret of their hiding-place is well 
kept, so that we are obliged to go to books, or listen to 
the story of some chance person who may happen to 
have seen a bats home, and found his family in it. We 
may, too, have a stuffed bat, or be able to look at the 
various species of them to be found in a museum ; and 
as our own observation of them may have been confined 
to watching their curious, flashing, uncertain flight, we 
shall find it very well worth our while to examine the 
curious body of a bat, and learn all we can about their 
life and ways. It flies, and yet is very far from being a 
bird ! It has wings, and yet it has no feathers. It does 
not lay eggs, but brings forth its young alive, and suckles 
them as does a mouse or squirrel. Its old English name 
was Flittermouse. The Germans call it Fkdcrmaus ; the 
French Chauve-souris , or bald mouse. In Latin it is 
called Vespertilio , because it comes forth and is seen in 
the vesper , or evening. In Greek it is called Cheiroptera , 
or hand-winged; and all these names, especially the last, 
help to explain the nature and form of a bat. It is, 
however, when we see its skeleton, that we can best 
understand its real structure, for we perceive by this that 
though it might be said to have two hind legs and two 
wings, yet that the wings are really like arms and hands 
long arms, very long fingers, and short thumbswhile 
its two hind legs are short, and are provided with feet, 


     


 . 


which have also fingers and thumbs, the thumbs'of both 
hands and feet being like hooks. When the skeleton is 
clothed, as in the living bat, a soft down-covered mem 
brane is stretched all down each side of the body, 
covering the bones of the arms and hands, just as the 
silk of an umbrella covers the whalebone or steel ribs of 



it, and just like an umbrella or large fan, this membrane 
can be folded up when the wings are not wanted for 
flight, and packed up on each side of the body like 
folded fans or shut-up umbrellas. Besides thus using its 
fingers in flight, a bat makes great use of its four thumbs, 
since they are provided with a kind of hooked nail or 
claw. When he sleeps, he gathers up his wide-spread 
wings around him, and hooking himself by his hind feet 







 . 


:    


to some object head downwards, so spends, not his 
night, but his day; for since bats fly by night in search 
of food, they must sleep during the day. 

Still more curious is the use the bat makes of his 
thumbs in walking, for he uses his fore thumbs instead 
of feet. Packed up into a brown ball, he creeps 
along with the help of these short thumbs at the 
joint of the wings, his large ears standing up ready to 
catch every sound. The tip of the tail of a bat is also 
very hard and stiff, so hard it can be used to help them 
in climbing, while in flight it assists them as a rudder in 
steering their course. The muscles of a bafls wing are 
very thick and strong, since they keep on the wing 
through a great part of the night, only ceasing to fly 
backwards and forwards in search of prey when owls 
come forth, who in their turn prey upon mice and bats. 
They seem constantly to dart from one spot to another, 
and yet can be noticed at times turning round in the 
air in pursuit of an insect. A mother bat brings forth 
only two young ones at a time, and is very attentive and 
careful of her offspring. She will fly about with the 
greatest ease with her little ones hanging to her breasts, 
and while at home wraps her large wings round them as 
she nurses them, much as a human nurse will gather her 
shawl round a baby. Some people have been found to 
take pleasure in taming bats, and have even trained 
them to take flies and other food out of their hands, but 
even then they seemed to like to eat in private, and would 
draw their wings over their mouths, and eat what was 


      . 

given them as if behind a veil. They would, too, retire 
to the darkest corner of the room by day and only come 
out when it was dusk, as if light were painful to them. 
One of these trained bats was observed to be very neat 
and tidy, and seen to comb the hair on his back very 
carefully with the fingers of his feet, making a parting 
down the middle as a lady will do. 

All the senses of a bat are very acute, sight, hearing, 
taste, smell, and touch ; but to account for the manner 
in which a bat contrives to avoid knocking against any 
thing as he flies, it has been maintained that he had a 
sixth sense, which gave him this power, rendering him 
conscious of an object being near although he could 
neither see, smell, touch, or hear it.. To make sure of 
this, most cruel experiments were tried by one naturalist, 
who put out the eyes of a bat, and covered over his 
whole head, and yet found that it could fly about a room 
without touching anything, and go in and out of a door 
without touching the sides of the doorway, and make its 
way down a narrow passage with a turn in it, all without 
striking against the walls. He even hung threads from 
the ceiling of a room, only wide enough apart for the bats 
wings when extended to pass through, and found that it 
could do so without coming in contact with them. He 
said, therefore, that bats must have a sixth sense ; but 
other naturalists think that they may only have great 
sensitiveness in the membrane which covers their wings, 
and that this may account for their being able at all 
times to steer their way in the dark. 


 , 


     


Our English bats are very harmless creatures and 
cannot be said to do us any harm  but terrible stories 
have been told of a kind of bat, called the Vampire, 
found in hot countries, which is said to suck the blood 
of human beings after fanning them to sleep with its 
great wings. A traveller, to prove if this were the case, 
had the courage when a Vampire bat came to his tent at 
night, to lie still on his back and bare his chest, in order 
to see what would happen. After flying over him back 
wards and forwards for some time, while its wings fanned 
him most pleasantly, the creature settled at last on his 
chest, and suddenly piercing the skin with one of its 
sharp thumb nails, it began to lick up the blood which 
flowed from the wound. The traveller then thought it 
time to capture and kill the Vampire, who after all had 
not done him much harm, since no poison had been 
injected in the wound. Such facts as these greatly ex 
aggerated, together with their way of living in gloomy 
places, such as caves and hollow trees, and old ruins, 
and their habit of coming forth only in the twilight, have 
caused bats to be looked upon as rather mysterious 
and dismal sort of creatures, only fit to attend on 
witches and hobgoblins, and such imaginary personages, 
so that we do well to learn that their lives are, after all, 
spent much as those of other small creatures, in the 
search after food, and in tenderly rearing and protecting 
their young. We may remind ourselves, too, that the 
 delicate Ariel, who was a good and beneficent spirit, 
performing so cleverly and zealously the commands 


      . 

of his master, Prospero, describes himself as making 
use of them in his journeys through the air when he 
sings 


 On a bats back do I fly, 
After sunset, merrily. 
























THE DWELLERS IN OUR GARDENS. 


     


  VIII. 

INVADERS, VISITORS, AND SETTLERS. 

T may seem strange that we should 
have to relate, that our gardens are 
sometimes invaded by a wild species 
of quadruped who comes into them 
at times, seeking, as do most wild 
beasts, that which it may devour 
scrambling in the first instance over our walls, or making 
its way through holes in our palings, or gaps in our 
hedges, in its search after food. It is of course not a 
lion, or tiger, nor even a lynx or fox; but however it 
may differ from all these creatures in its outward 
appearance, it has really much that is like them in 
the structure of its body, for all quadrupeds are like 
each other in the form and arrangement of the bones 
which compose their skeletons; just as in the construction 
of houses there is much that is alike in the beams and 
rafters, however in their external appearance, they may 
differ from each other. In the skeletons of all quad 
rupeds is found the back-bone, or spine, composed of 
many separate vertebra , or'small bones fitted into each 
other, so as to make the whole flexible, with the skull at 





l o  . 

the end, which contains the brain. Branching out from the 
back-bone, or spine, are the ribs, which bend round and 
protect some of the most tender internal parts of the 
body; while in the bones of the four legs, there is much 
alike in every quadruped both in their form and arrange 
ment as well as in the muscles which move them in life. 
It is therefore in size that the invader whom we are 
going to describe, differs most from any other quadrupeds, 
that roam wild about the forests and deserts; and in this 
respect the difference is very great. In the skeleton of 
the elephant, for instance, which is the largest of all 
quadrupeds, we know that it is composed of thick, heavy 
solid bones, almost as hard and strong as if made of 
iron or stone, while the whole skeleton is perhaps two 
and a half yards in length; and in the case of the 
animal which sometimes invades our gardens, the bones 
of which it is composed are as fine and delicate as if 
carved in ivory, and the whole being but about two 
and a half inches long, it could easily lie in the palm of 
our handfor the creature of which we are speaking is 
but a mouse, the very smallest of all quadrupeds. 

Two or three different kinds of mice come to us at 
times from the fields, and if they find that they can 
supply themselves with food enough among our vegetables, 
and such seeds and fruits as are to be found lying under 
our trees, and especially if we happen to grow Indian 
corn, or have some bushes of hazel-nuts and filberts 
if only such delicious provender as this is to be reckoned 
on which can be stored up, they will become settlers 


 . l l 

with us, and make their nests in some sheltered nook 
beneath the root of a tree, or under a tuft of grass, or in 
some cranny in a wall, and lining it carefully with moss 
and dead leaves and hay, will there live and bring forth, 
and rear their young. As they have usually as many as 
six or seven young ones at a time, and two or three 
families in a year, it will make all the difference to 
us and our gardener, when such invaders become 
settlers. 

The mouse which most often lives in our gardens is 
the wood mouse, or as it is sometimes called, the  Long 
tailed Field Mouse *a pretty gentle timid creature 
after all, with large bright eyes, and broader and rounder 
ears than those of the house mouse, and with a tail 
nearly as long as its head and body. Like the squirrel, 
it lays up stores of food for the winterseeds, nuts, and 
grain, etc. It probably sleeps a good deal during the 
very cold weather, and yet may be seen venturing forth 
even when the snow is upon the ground to forage for 
food if its store is becoming exhausted, and rather than 
starve will burrow down to our crocus and snowdrop 
bulbs and nibble them away. Since it feeds principally 
on vegetable food, it lives on good terms with the other 
inhabitants of our gardens, and has only to fear being 
caught by some stray cat or owl who is on the look out 
for mice and moles. It is curious to think of the 
quiet snug life which our little mice settlers may lead, 


* See last page. 


M 


     


 . 


all the winter feeding and sleeping alternately in their 
warm nests, and yet cases may arrive when, perhaps, the 
winter being longer than usual and their storehouse 
becoming exhausted, and nothing to be had in the 
garden that will suit them, they will make their way 
out beyond its boundaries again, and get into some 
neighbouring wood or plantation, where beech-nuts and 
acorns are still to be found in the dead leaves at the 
foot of trees. A near relation of the wood mouse, is a 
somewhat still smaller animal, and is likely only to pay us 
very short visits. It is called the harvest mouse, and 
living principally on grain, constructs for itself a nest 
amid the stalks of corn, like a round bag hung among 
them, formed of leaves and grass woven together. The 
entrance into this curious nest is contrived so as to close 
as with a spring after the owner has entered it, or when 
he leaves it, filled with his young ones or with his store of 
food. This mouse is able to catch hold of objects, such 
as a twig or stalk of corn, with the end of his tail, like 
an opossum, so as to swing himself from one twig 
or stalk to another. Mice have such large families, and 
increase their numbers so fast that a naturalist who 
wanted to ascertain how fast they would multiply, put 
a pair of harvest mice into a large box, together with 
a quantity of grain, and on opening the box three or 
four months afterwards found that there were one 
hundred and twenty mice in it. 

The mole is another quadruped which is sure to invade 
our gardens, or pay them occasional visits, though we 


 .      

do not often meet with him above ground. In a 
neighbouring field we may perhaps see the little hillocks 
of earth which moles bring to the surface after burrowing 
out the subterranean passages which they form, and even 
in our own gardens such traces of them are to be found 
when they make their way under our walls and fences, 
in search of earth-worms, which form their principal 
article of food. From time to time we do, however, get 
a sight of moles, and though we may fancy them at first 
to be ugly and shapeless creatures, it is worth our while 



to examine them well, that we may learn how curiously 
their form is suited to their manner of life. First of all, 
the long shapeless body is covered with a most smooth 
and velvet-like fur, which will turn any way, so that 
while groping about underground it enables the creature 
to slip easily through the passages it burrows out, either 
backwards or forwards. The head is joined on to the 
body without any neck, and has a long flexible snout, 
which penetrates the earth like a ploughshare, while its 
short fore-legs have broad paws like fat hands turned 


m   


     


 .. 


outwards, with five fingers and sharp pointed nails, just 
fitted for first helping to rake away the earth, and then 
to throw it back on each side as the creature ploughs its 
way along. Since the mole spends its life in the dark, its 
eyes are very minute, and perhaps enable it to see with a 
very little amount of light, while its ears are scarcely 
visible at all. 

Though the mole travels so much underground, and does 
not require shelter like most other animals, it has still a 
home of its own. In the centre of one of the largest 
hillocks, or mole-hills, will be found its nest, and nothing 
can be more curiously or artfully constructed than these 
abodes. They are formed like little fortresses, composed 
of two round galleries, one above another, communi 
cating with each other by five upright passages, while 
other runs/ or tunnels, branch out from the lower 
gallery in every direction, and extend over a considerable 
space. In the centre of the fortress is the principal 
apartment, in which the creature dwells, and from which, 
if attacked, he can make his escape by any of his secret 
passages. He is not obliged to be always burrowing his 
way through the earth in search of food when such a 
system of tunnels has been executed by him, but can use 
it as a sort of hunting-ground around his fortress; and 
we may fancy the proprietor of such a territory running 
about his underground passages in search of worms, and 
living rather at ease when once he has formed his abode, 
and dug his tunnels that communicate with it. He has 
only to be careful not to show himself above ground too 


 .      

often, if an owl happens to dwell in his neighbourhood, 
and to beware of the traps of the mole-catcher, who 
knows so well all his ways and habits. When the creature 
has to bring forth and rear its young, it forms a different 
sort of nest in one of its raised hillocks, carefully con 
structed with drains, so as to carry off moisture, and which 
nest is supplied with plenty of leaves and warm materials 
for bedding. Moles do us very little harm in our gardens, 
since they do not eat vegetables, and do eat many 
animals of which we might otherwise have too many. 
The underground passages they make seem also to break 
up the soil and help to drain it. Earth-worms are said 
to be so afraid of moles, who prey on them so constantly, 
that no sooner do they feel any shaking of the ground 
about them, like the approach of their enemy, than they 
wriggle up to the surface of the earth ; and it is a still 
more curious fact that those birds who also make worms 
their food seem aware of this, so that thrushes and lap 
wings will be seen knocking the earth with their bills, 
and stamping with their feet round the holes of worms, 
in order to bring them up, when, of course, the poor 
worm becomes the prey of the bird, instead of the 
imaginary mole. Sometimes the soft velvety skins of 
moles are used to make gloves, and pouches, and purses, 
and we have even heard of a gentleman wearing a 
waistcoat made of mole-skins. 

And now we must describe, what may be thought 
perhaps to be the very ugliest of all the dwellers in our 
gardens, and yet it is one who has much in its life that is 


     


 . 


very curious. It has, in fact, a sort of double life, being 
at first an inhabitant of some pond in the neighbourhood 
of the garden where it is found, in form very like a fish, 
and feeding on water plants, and afterwards becoming a 
land animal, and requiring for its support flies, slugs, 
small beetles, and worms. We know him best when, as 
a frog, he sits under the shelter of some large cabbage 
or rhubarb leaf, or among the strawberry plants in our 
gardens, careful not to expose himself to the heat or 
light of the sun, for he likes shade and dampness as 
much as the Slow One of our first  ; in fact, his 
life depends on keeping his skin moist, and he would die 
were he to be exposed to the heat of the sun, so as to 
have his skin dried up. There he sits grave and ugly ; 
his prominent eyes on the look out for any living crea 
ture on the wing that may come near, and with his great 
mouth ready to open like a trap, and his long tongue 
prepared to dart out to capture the prey! 

The frog, though it has four legs, is not classed with 
quadrupeds, but with reptiles. It is said to be am 
phibious, which means having both livesone on 
land and the other in water. In early spring the eggs of 
the frog may be seen in large clusters in ponds, like 
transparent beads, with a black dot in the middle, and 
in April the creature we call a tadpole is hatched from 
them. At first it is like a tiny fish with gills outside its 
head, but these soon disappear and nothing is to be 
seen but a round body, like a head and stomach in one, 
and a long tail (Fig. i). It feeds on the plants which 


 . 


     


grow in the water, and especially on the green duck 
weed which covers the surface of ponds. It has little 
hooks on its jaws, to enable it to bite the leaves, with a 
sort of tube or sucker on its lower lip, by which it hangs 
to floating plants. When the tadpole is about six weeks 
old, a pair of legs begin to make their appearance near 
the tail, and by-and-by another pair come out near the 
head (Fig.  ), the tail disappears and the animal is then 
a young frog. It makes its way out of the pond and 
begins to live on flies and other living creatures; many 
other changes having come about in its body, which 
enables it to breathe air and digest a different kind of 
food. As a great many young frogs leave their native 



ponds at the same time, and make their way to fields 
and gardens, the ground will seem alive with them 
sometimes, and people have been known to fancy that 
a shower of frogs had fallen, but it has only been the 
migration of thousands of them, obeying a natural im 
pulse, and turning their backs on the place of their 
birth, begin to exercise for the first time their power 
of leaping and crawling. Frogs have wonderfully 








i   


 . 


strong muscles provided for the movements of their 
legs, since they have so many different motions to per 
form with themswimming, walking, and leaping. Even 
after a frog has its four legs, it is a great swimmer, and 
its feet are webbed with skin between the toes, like 
those of a duck, for after spending the greater part of 
the year on land it returns to its pond again late in 
autumn, and when winter sets in, buries itself in the 
mud at the bottom and remains there in a torpid state 
until spring returns. The power of a frogs muscle is 
shown most in its leaping and hopping, since it can 
jump into the air as high as twenty times its own height, 
and at a single leap go the distance of fifty times its own 
length. The bones and muscles of a frogs hind legs 
are said to be very like those of a man, but we cannot 
very well fancy a man being able to perform such a feat 
in the way of jumping or leaping. The tongue of a 
frog, which it uses for catching its prey, is very long and 
narrow, and is placed in its mouth quite differently to 
that of most animals, since it is fastened within the 
front of the lower jaw, with the end lying towards the 
throat-just the reverse way to that in which our own 
tongues lie in our mouths. It is also covered with a 
sticky kind of liquid, to which the flies, as they are 
caught, adhere, and not being able to escape, are drawn 
into the frogs large mouth and sent down the throat. 
Watch as we may, however, it is almost impossible to 
see the tongue of a frog as he is fly-catching, so rapid 
is its motion. 


 . 


     


Frogs grow very slowly and live very long. They are 
nearly related to toads, who pass through the same 
changes in their lives, and are amphibious , or both- 
lived. A toad can be known by the small bumps on 
its skin, and by its crawling instead of leaping. There 
have been plenty of people, who though they might not 
perhaps have found beauty in them, yet liked to make 
pets of frogs and toads. We have known a family, who 
had a large pet frog, called Jacob, who was supposed 
to be fond of music. When on summer evenings the 
drawing-room windows were left open and playing and 
singing likely to be going on, a flop would be heard 



on the floor, and it would be found that Jacob had 
come in to listen to the music; and the greatest care 
v r as taken that no one trod on him, or set the legs of a 
chair on him, while some kind of supper would be found 
to suit him before he took his leave. Late in the au 
tumn he and his fellow frogs will have returned to their 
native ponds, where they spend the winter in the mud 


   0 


 . 


at the bottom, and in the following spring have a con 
cert of their own, since frogs at that time of the year 
send forth their curious croaking, the chorus often be 
ginning in the twilight and continuing far into the night. 
In America there is a species of frog, whose croaking is 
not only louder, but also more musical than that of our 
frogs, so that, as in England, we go out sometimes after 
dark to listen to the nightingales, people there;will go 
out to hear a frog concert. 

We should be neglecting to notice a large portion of 
the living creatures which are to be found in our gardens, 
were we not to tell something about the curious and 
beautiful Beetles, some of which are settlers, and some 
only visitors to us, but of which many species may be 
met with even in the course of a single summers day. 
It would, however, take the whole of a little book like 
this were we to describe even the appearance of many 
of them, so greatly do they vary in shape, form, colour, 
and size, though in their habits and mode of life there is 
not so great a difference. 

Beetles belong to the class of insects to which is given 
the name of Coleoptera , a word which means wing- 
sheathed, owing to their having besides the wings used 
for flight, another pair of hard, opaque outer wings or 
wing-cases, which cover the former from sight, except 
when the insect is flying. The pair of light gauzy wings 
are folded up when the beetle is at rest, and the thick 
sheaths close together over the body, like valves fitting 
so exactly that they often seem like one piece, and we 


 .       

are apt to forget the very beautiful and delicate trans 
parent wings which are folded up under their hard shiny 
coats, ready to be expanded and bear them up into the 
air. 

As we look at a beetle at rest, we can easily perceive 
that there is not the narrow part between the chest and the 
stomach which we see in many insects, but that the head 
and chest are joined immediately on to the rest of the 
body. 

All beetles have but two eyes, but these are what are 
called compound eyes, and are made up of many small 
eye-lets , which no doubt supply them with very acute sight. 
As their food is very varied, their mouths are fitted for 
several ways of getting at it, and in different kinds of 
beetles are suited for cutting, gnawing, tearing, or chew 
ingbut never for sucking or for lapping up, like those 
of the fly and bee. And they need all these different 
little instruments for feeding themselves, since some 
prey on the flesh of dead animals, some on rotten wood, 
some on wood that is fresh and growing, some on the 
roots of grasses and plants, some on grain, and some 
on leaveswhile the most dainty of all would seem to 
be those who feed in the petals of flowers. Beetles 
pass through the same changes and transformations as 
other insects. At first the form is like that of a grub or 
larva, like a short thick worm, its body very soft, but 
with a horny head, something like what it afterwards has 
as a perfect beetle. In this state it prepares for the 
change into a pupa or chrysalis by contriving some kind 


     


 . 


of defence around it. Some have been hatched from 
eggs previously laid in the earth, and when about to 
undergo the change, they hollow out the earth around 
them so as to form a little cave. Others make a sort of 
cocoon, by joining together particles of earth with web or 
sticky matter. Those which live in wood have no need 
of cocoon, but change into pupae in the hollow they have 
made while feeding on the fibre of the wood, while 
some, which feed on plants, hang themselves in round 
silken cocoons from the leaves or stalks of it. 

We have no English beetles which are to be compared 
in splendour with the Diamond-beetle, which is found in 
tropical countries, whose wing-cases, when seen in the 
microscope, seems studded with brilliant gems, yet many 
of our garden beetles are very beautiful in form and 
colour in their delicate antennae and legs, and in the 
hues of their wing-cases. We find in the centre of our 
roses the beautiful Rose-beetle, with its body of a bright 
emerald green burnished with gold, and who seems as if 
conscious of the becoming contrast of the glowing pink 
or crimson of its cradle to the hue of its own body. The 
first state of life of the insect is very different to the 
nature of its favourite food, since the grub is found in 
decayed wood and ant-hills. Perhaps no beetle is more 
unlike the Rose-beetle than the great brown Cockchafer, 
which we sometimes encounter in our gardens in the 
evening, when it will strike against us as it flies, as if its 
sight were imperfect; from which circumstances is sup 
posed to come the saying, As blind as a beetle. 


 . 


     


When the female Cockchafer wants to lay her eggs, she 
digs a hole in the ground about six inches deep and 
there leaves them, and by-and-by comes from them a 
white or greyish-coloured grub, which feeds on the roots 
of plants for years. It then goes still deeper into the 
earth and changes into a pupa or chrysalis, and at last 
makes its way out of its subterranean abode a perfect 
Cockchafer. 

Another species of beetle with which we are all so 
well acquainted is the little Lady-bird, or Cow-bird, as it 
is called in some counties of England. There are 
several kinds which frequent our gardens. One with 
two black spots on its round and scarlet wing-cases 
another with five spots, while some are black spotted 
or blotched with red. It is a useful insect in gardens, 
because it feeds on the aphides or plant-lice, which 
destroy so many vegetables. The largest of all our 
English beetles is the Stag-beetle, which very rarely pays 
us a visit, but who has such stag-like horns standing out 
from the front of its head, that we are sure to know its 
name. The Burying-beetle is, perhaps, the most curious 
of its race in its habits. It not only lives on the flesh 
of dead animals, but after it has feasted on them, the 
female lays her eggs in the same body, in order that 
the grubs, which come from them, may have the flesh of 
the creature also for their food. To secure this the 
beetles bury the dead body of the bird or mole which 
they have found, before they begin their feast. First 
they dig around it a sort of trench, and then gradually 


     


 . 


hollowing out the earth beneath it, pull the body down. 
While the little sextons are invisible, the body may be 
seen gradually sinking down into its grave. 



Female Burying-beetle. 



Male Burying-beetle. 


Very nearly related to beetles is the earwig, which has 
also its two sets of wing's, with the gauzy pair folded up 
like fans under the sheath-wings. The grub and chrysalis 
of the earwig is very like the perfect insect., only without 






 . 


*   


wings and wing-cases. It has very strong horny mandibles 
or jaws, and we know well the curious pair of pincers 
it carries about at the end of his body as if for defence. 
If we want to find a number of earwigs, we must look 
for them in some moist place, such as under a large stone 
or some decayed straw, and yet while it will live on 
animal food it will eat the leaves and petals of flowers. 

Any injury, however, which earwigs do in a garden is 
made amends for by their eating in their turn many 
mischievous insects. It has been a very mistaken notion 
that earwigs were apt to get into peoples ears, and the 
notion has perhaps originated from the name of the 
creature, and not the name from the practice of 
so doing. The word earwig comes in fact from ear, and 
the Saxon word weiga a worm. In German it is called 
Ohrwurm , and both names have probably come from the 
shape of its beautiful gauzy wings, which are just the 
form of the human ear. Perhaps too the notion has also 
been preserved from the habit which these little creatures 
have of creeping into holes during the day-time to hide 
from the light; at all events they seem to be always 
suspected of doing harm which never happens, and 
do not deserve to have gained such a bad reputation, 
since they show great affection for their offspring, and 
take the most tender care of them, the female earwig 
sitting on her eggs to hatch them, and then gathering the 
grubs under her body to protect them just as a hen does 
her chickens. 

Among the different invaders of our gardens, there 


     


 . 


are none, perhaps, whom we are so unwilling to have 
there as settlers, as those near relations of beesthe 
wasps. During the spring and early summer, we perhaps 
forget all about them, just at the very time when they 
are so busy themselves in constructing their dwelling 
places, and when too they are really serviceable to us, 
as we shall presently see; and it is only when they 
seem to appear on the scene as the natural enemies of 
the human race, that we begin to notice and dread the 
robbing and plundering propensities, and the fierce vin 
dictiveness of our garden ryfc-corps in its gaudy uniform 
of black and yellow. 

*Like the earwig, we after all give the wasp more 
credit for mischief than he deserves. He carries, 
it is true, a most formidable weapona sharp-pointed 
stiletto, which can be sent deep into our flesh, and a 
bag of poison, of which a single drop poured into the 
wound, can cause us hours, and even days, of pain and 
inconvenience. But has the wasp really any blood 
thirsty designs towards us, or any natural desire to use 
his deadly weapons against us ? Far from it. A wasp, 
in fact, only attacks and wounds us in self-defence. He 
has a natural desire, it is quite true, for the sweet juices 
of plums and nectarines, and other luscious fruits, and 
once having taken possession of the ripest he can find 
if we should happen to want that particular plum or 
nectarine and disturb him in his feast, knocking him 
roughly, perhaps, as we detach it from the branchhe 
treats us as marauders and invaders of his rights, and 


.  . l]J 

stings us. He comes in at our open windows, attracted 
perhaps by the scent of sugar on our tables, and if we 
attempt to do battle with him as he flies about in search 
of the sugar-basin, he will again sting us in self-defence. 
Let us on such occasions remind ourselves that during 
the former part of his life, before fruit was ripe or 
windows left open, the wasp was feeding on just the 
kind of matter that we are glad to get rid of, and that 
before his taste for sweets has come to him he has been 
performing the office of scavenger, and feasting on putrid 
and impure animal substances of all kinds ; and should 
we like to exchange the feeling of enmity too often 
nourished against him for one of wonder and admiration 
at his powers and clever works, let us find out all we can 
of his curious life and ways. 

Like bees and ants, the wasps we are sure to find in 
our gardens live in communities, and have among them 
males, females, and neuters or working wasps. Their 
nests too, which contain something like the combs of 
the bee-hives, are found in banks and hollow trees, and 
such situations as are selected by wild-bees for their 
nests. The cells of wasps prepared for the reception of 
the eggs, from which the larvae or grubs are hatched, and 
in which they are carefully fed by nursing wasps, and 
where they undergo the transformation into pupae before 
becoming perfect waspsthese small cradles for their 
future population are formed not of wax like the cells of 
bees, nor of any substance at all resembling it, but of a 
sort of paper made of fine sawdust. Just of such a sub- 


N 


I   S 


 . 


stance as we manufacture of paper and call papier-mache , 
or mashed paper, are formed the combs of wasps. Instead 
of collecting materials from flowers and digesting it into- 
wax, as does the bee, the wasp rasps off fine fibres of 
wood from any paling, dead tree, or gate-post that he 
can get at, and mixing it with some gummy liquid, 
which his own body supplies, makes a pulp, which he 
spreads out into thin sheets of paper, and first lining the 
walls of the round nest with many layers of these, after 
wards with the same material forms the cells, which, like 
storeys of numerous small apartments, fill up the nest. 



The labour undergone by wasps in preparing their 
nests is even more wonderful than what is performed by 
bees within the hives which we prepare for them, and it 
seems to combine the mining and excavating power of 
the ant with the building talent of the bee ? since the 





 . 


       


first operation towards the foundation of a wasp colony, 
is the hollowing out of a long horizontal tunnel in some 
bank, with a large oval cave at the end, sufficiently ca 
pacious to be fitted up afterwards with layers of the tiny 
cradles wanted for the future population. The long 
tunnel and the large cave have both to be hollowed out 
with infinite labour by the gradual removal of the soil 
in the form of minute pellets carried in the wasps jaws 
or mandibles, and which the cautious little workpeople 
are careful to carry away to some distance from the 
mouth of the tunnel, so as to prevent the situation of 
the secret passage being detected, through an accumula 
tion of earth near its entrance. Then paper-making 
begins, and more wonderful industry and perseverance in 
kneading and plastering, and when the walls of 'the large 
cave are lined and tapestried with many layers of paper, 
there comes into operation lastly the same constructing 
skill as that of the bee, in forming the tiny six-sided 
cells, crowded together so as to take up as little space 
and material as possible ; only that as each storey of cells 
is placed across the nest horizontally and is separate 
from each other storey, and not joined end to end, as in 
the combs of bees, the cells are flat at the bottom, and 
there is no occasion for the three-sided pyramid at the 
end of each, which is seen in the cell of the bee. The 
storeys in the wasps nest are, in fact, placed one above 
another, as in our own dwelling, only that a space is left 
between each storey, in order that the worker wasps 
may get to the young broods in the cellsfor the combs 


N   


iSo 


 . 


of wasps are never used for the storing up honey in, as 
those of bees. A most curious contrivance is adopted 
by the s wasps, in order to secure the separation of the 
different storeys and the firmness of the whole nest. A 



little upright pillar of solid wasp-paper mortar is placed- 

between each layer of cells, just as a human architect 

places pillars to support ceilings or roofs over large 

apartments or buildings. When the 

cells are filled with grubs, the attention 

of the wasp nurses to the young is 

equal to that of bees, but it does not 

Portion of Comb, appear that any substance like the bee- 

witli supporting bread of kneaded pollen is formed for 
pillar, from Nest .... , . . . . 

of Wasp their iood, but that the wasp brings 

home to the broods such food as she 
feeds on herselfprobably after it has undergone some 
change in her stomach, and it may be that her avidity 
for sweet juices may arise from her desire to carry it 
home for the young of her community. And when the 
cold of late autumn has crept on and the latest of juicy 
pears has been gathered, and windows never left open, 
the life and labours of the wasp end together, the colony 
is reduced down to a few males and females, and a few 
workers, who contrive to survive the frosts of winter, to 
begin again in the spring the construction of a new 
paper city, and are too busy over their work to notice 
in the blossoms of our fruit trees the preparation for 
their autumn feasts. Shall we not after all bid them 
welcome to a share of the dainties for which nature has 
given them a relish as well as ourselves ? 




 . iSf 

In the form of the wasp with its slender waist, is seen 
very plainly the separation between the thorax or chest, 
and the abdomen or stomach, which forms one of the 
distinguishing marks of an insect, while in their lives, 
each individual passes through the three changes, which 
is peculiar to every other insectfirst, the grub or larva; 
then, the chrysalis or pupa; and lastly, the perfect insect, 
such as the butterfly, ant, bee, and beetle, in which last 
form the creatures never grow. 


And now let us fancy ourselves taking a walk round 
some garden with those who have been our readers, and 
let us pass in review some of the living creatures of 
whose lives and works we have endeavoured to give a 
history. If our walk be in the early morning, while 
grass and leaves are still damp with dew, we shall be 
very likely to meet with the  Slow One of our first 
 , going home, perhaps, after his breakfast on juicy 
leaves of some kind, and we know that he will soon be 
shut up in his shell, and stuck fast against the smooth 
surface of some stone or tree bark, quietly digesting his 
food, while he makes a little addition to the size of his 
shell. We may see, too, many  Spinners and Weavers, 
seated in the midst of their delicate, glistening webs, 
waiting for flies, or if the owners of the webs be not 
there, we know that they are in nooks close at hand, 
most carefully concealed, but from out of which they 



     


 . 


can easily run down to seize on their prey; and we may 
notice how cleverly the weavers of the great wheel 
shaped nets have contrived to moor them with long lines 
of web to some distant objects, and may calculate how 
many times their own length are some of those lines 
which they have ejected from their tiny spinnerets. We 
pass on, and may contrive to see the Three-lived Ones 
in each of their states; as caterpillars, feeding on the 
leaves of plants and vegetables ; or hanging to boughs or 
ledges of palings, in their pupa or chrysalis state; or 
meet them in their most perfect form, as lovely butter 
flies, fluttering about among flowers, or just resting on 
them long enough to send down their long drinking 
tubes into their nectaries. As we tread the gravel paths, 
we are sure to notice some doings of the u Underground 
Workers,some piles of earth thrown up while they have 
been excavating a cave-city, or we may see a long pro 
cession of them crossing a path, some going one way 
and some another, on important business no doubt; 
very busy and very fussy, and yet stopping occasionally 
to touch feelers and have a talk; or we may see where a 
number of them are making their way up the stem of 
some standard rose-tree, in order to  milk their cattle 
that is to say, take from the green aphides on the 
rose-buds and stalks the sweet honey-dew. We see here 
and there and everywhere that flowers and blossoms are 
to be found, the  Busy Ones collecting honey and 
pollen, dipping their flexible tongues now into this flower- 
cup and now into that, and burying themselves in others 


 .      

so deeply that they come out white, or red, or yellow, 
with pollen, which is to be kneaded at home into bee- 
bread. During all the time of our walk we hear the 
cheerful trills and twitters and sweet notes of countless 
birds, and see them busy in their search after food, while 
we know that most of them have snug little nests in the 
trees and shrubs, and amid the ivy on walls about us, 
filled with young fledglings whom they never forget to 
provide for. As we pass a strawberry bed, we may 
chance to see some frog waiting with his large mouth 
and long tongue ready for trapping flies ; or may chance 
to come upon a mole, who may have ventured up from 
his burrows underground. Even when we walk about our 
gardens in winter time, when all seems so still and quiet, 
we may remind ourselves of how much life there is still 
around us, or provision for future life. Ants down in 
their subterranean cities, taking their long winter sleep. 
Bees also dormant in their hives. Little mice snug and 
dozing in their warm nests; while in every nook and 
cranny of tree-trunks and branches, and in chinks of 
palings and walls, are eggs and pupns of all manner of 
insects, waiting only for the warmth of spring to bring 
them into life. 

And as we are reminded of all the creatures whose 
history, or evena portion of it, we have read, and 
whose ways we have been led to observe, we cannot but 
reflect with wonder on the abundance of life and the 
endless variety in the forms and modes of life to be 
observed even in the creatures who are to be found 


     


 . 


within the compass of a garden. We have seen, too, 
how their bodies and all their powers are most wonder 
fully suited for the support and preservation of their 
lives. We have learnt that not only can each creature 
provide for itself, but has the inborn knowledge and 
impulse which we call instinct , prompting it to take most 
tender care of its young, or leading it to provide for its 
offspring beforehand, whom it will never see or know. 
We have seen how curious and marvellously skilful are 
some of the works of these small creatures for all these 
purposesthe web of the spider, the cell of the bee, the 
cocoon of the caterpillar, and the nest of the bird; and 
we know with what fidelity and unwearying patience and 
industry they employ all the capacities and powers given 
to them by nature ; all which cannot fail to inspire us, 
not merely with love for them, but leads us to feel some 
thing like respect for these our little fellow-creatures, 
who, like ourselves, have received so many tokens of 
the loving-kindness and tender mercy of Him  who 
made and loveth all. 



Long-tailed Field Mouse. 
MORE NONSENSE
Pictures, Rhymes, Botany, etc.
by
EDWARD LEAR
CONTENTS
  NONSENSE BOTANY
  ONE HUNDRED NONSENSE PICTURES AND RHYMES
  TWENTY-SIX NONSENSE RHYMES AND PICTURES
INTRODUCTION
In offering this little book--the third of its kind--to the public, I am
glad to take the opportunity of recording the pleasure I have received at
the appreciation its predecessors have met with, as attested by their wide
circulation, and by the universally kind notices of them from the Press. To
have been the means of administering innocent mirth to thousands, may
surely be a just motive for satisfaction, and an excuse for grateful
expression.

At the same time, I am desirous of adding a few words as to the history of
the two previously published volumes, and more particularly of the first or
original "Book of Nonsense," relating to which many absurd reports have
crept into circulation, such as that it was the composition of the late
Lord Brougham, the late Earl of Derby, etc.; that the rhymes and pictures
are by different persons; or that the whole have a symbolical meaning,
etc.; whereas, every one of the Rhymes was composed by myself, and every
one of the Illustrations drawn by my own hand at the time the verses were
made. Moreover, in no portion of these Nonsense drawings have I ever
allowed any caricature of private or public persons to appear, and
throughout, more care than might be supposed has been given to make the
subjects incapable of misinterpretation: "Nonsense," pure and absolute,
having been my aim throughout.

As for the persistently absurd report of the late Earl of Derby being the
author of the "First Book of Nonsense," I may relate an incident which
occurred to me four summers ago, the first that gave me any insight into
the origin of the rumor.

I was on my way from London to Guildford, in a railway carriage,
containing, besides myself, one passenger, an elderly gentleman: presently,
however, two ladies entered, accompanied by two little boys. These, who had
just had a copy of the "Book of Nonsense" given them, were loud in their
delight, and by degrees infected the whole party with their mirth.

"How grateful," said the old gentleman to the two ladies, "all children,
and parents too, ought to be to the statesman who has given his time to
composing that charming book!"

(The ladies looked puzzled, as indeed was I, the author.)

"Do you not know who is the writer of it?" asked the gentleman.

"The name is 'Edward Lear,'" said one of the ladies.

"Ah!" said the first speaker, "so it is printed; but that is only a whim of
the real author, the Earl of Derby. 'Edward' is his Christian name, and, as
you may see, LEAR is only EARL transposed."

"But," said the lady, doubtingly, "here is a dedication to the
great-grandchildren, grand-nephews, and grand-nieces of Edward, thirteenth
Earl of Derby, by the author, Edward Lear."

"That," replied the other, "is simply a piece of mystification; I am in a
position to know that the whole book was composed and illustrated by Lord
Derby himself. In fact, there is no such a person at all as Edward Lear."

"Yet," said the other lady, "some friends of mine tell me they know Mr.
Lear."

"Quite a mistake! completely a mistake!" said the old gentleman, becoming
rather angry at the contradiction; "I am well aware of what I am saying: I
can inform you, no such a person as 'Edward Lear' exists!"

Hitherto I had kept silence; but as my hat was, as well as my handkerchief
and stick, largely marked inside with my name, and as I happened to have in
my pocket several letters addressed to me, the temptation was too great to
resist; so, flashing all these articles at once on my would-be
extinguisher's attention, I speedily reduced him to silence.

The second volume of Nonsense, commencing with the verses, "The Owl and the
Pussy-Cat," was written at different times, and for different sets of
children: the whole being collected in the course of last year, were then
illustrated, and published in a single volume, by Mr. R.J. Bush, of 32
Charing Cross.

The contents of the third or present volume were made also at different
intervals in the last two years.

Long years ago, in days when much of my time was passed in a country house,
where children and mirth abounded, the lines beginning, "There was an old
man of Tobago," were suggested to me by a valued friend, as a form of verse
lending itself to limitless variety for rhymes and pictures; and
thenceforth the greater part of the original drawings and verses for the
first "Book of Nonsense" were struck off with a pen, no assistance ever
having been given me in any way but that of uproarious delight and welcome
at the appearance of every new absurdity.

Most of these Drawings and Rhymes were transferred to lithographic stones
in the year 1846, and were then first published by Mr. Thomas McLean, of
the Haymarket. But that edition having been soon exhausted, and the call
for the "Book of Nonsense" continuing, I added a considerable number of
subjects to those previously-published, and having caused the whole to be
carefully reproduced in woodcuts by Messrs. Dalzell, I disposed of the
copyright to Messrs. Routledge and Warne, by whom the volume was published
in 1843.
                                                              EDWARD LEAR.

VILLA EMILY, SAN REMO,
August, 1871.

ONE HUNDRED NONSENSE PICTURES AND RHYMES.
    There was a young person of Bantry,
    Who frequently slept in the pantry;
    When disturbed by the mice, she appeased them with rice,
    That judicious young person of Bantry.

    There was an Old Man at a Junction,
    Whose feelings were wrung with compunction
    When they said, "The Train's gone!" he exclaimed, "How forlorn!"
    But remained on the rails of the Junction.

  

    There was an old person of Minety,
    Who purchased five hundred and ninety
    Large apples and pears, which he threw unawares
    At the heads of the people of Minety.

  

    There was an old man of Thermopylae,
    Who never did anything properly;
    But they said, "If you choose to boil eggs in your shoes,
    You shall never remain in Thermopylae."

  

    There was an old person of Deal,
    Who in walking used only his heel;
    When they said, "Tell us why?" he made no reply,
    That mysterious old person of Deal.

  

    There was an old man on the Humber,
    Who dined on a cake of Burnt Umber;
    When he said, "It's enough!" they only said, "Stuff!
    You amazing old man on the Humber!"

  

    There was an old man in a barge,
    Whose nose was exceedingly large;
    But in fishing by night, it supported a light,
    Which helped that old man in a barge.

  

    There was an old man of Dunrose;
    A parrot seized hold of his nose.
    When he grew melancholy, they said, "His name's Polly,"
    Which soothed that old man of Dunrose.

  

    There was an old man of Toulouse
    Who purchased a new pair of shoes;
    When they asked, "Are they pleasant?" he said, "Not at present!"
    That turbid old man of Toulouse.

  

    There was an old person of Bree,
    Who frequented the depths of the sea;
    She nurs'd the small fishes, and washed all the dishes,
    And swam back again into Bree.

  

    There was an old person of Bromley,
    Whose ways were not cheerful or comely;
    He sate in the dust, eating spiders and crust,
    That unpleasing old person of Bromley.

  

    There was an old person of Shields,
    Who frequented the vallies and fields;
    All the mice and the cats, and the snakes and the rats,
    Followed after that person of Shields.

  

    There was an old man of Dunluce,
    Who went out to sea on a goose:
    When he'd gone out a mile, he observ'd with a smile,
    "It is time to return to Dunluce."

  

    There was an old man of Dee-side
    Whose hat was exceedingly wide,
    But he said, "Do not fail, if it happen to hail,
    To come under my hat at Dee-side!"

  

    There was an old person in black,
    A Grasshopper jumped on his back;
    When it chirped in his ear, he was smitten with fear,
    That helpless old person in black.

  

    There was an old man of the Dargle
    Who purchased six barrels of Gargle;
    For he said, "I'll sit still, and will roll them down hill,
    For the fish in the depths of the Dargle."

  

    There was an old person of Pinner,
    As thin as a lath, if not thinner;
    They dressed him in white, and roll'd him up tight,
    That elastic old person of Pinner.

  

    There was an old person of China,
    Whose daughters were Jiska and Dinah,
    Amelia and Fluffy, Olivia and Chuffy,
    And all of them settled in China.

  

    There was an old man in a Marsh,
    Whose manners were futile and harsh;
    He sate on a log, and sang songs to a frog,
    That instructive old man in a Marsh.

  

    There was an old person of Brill,
    Who purchased a shirt with a frill;
    But they said, "Don't you wish, you mayn't look like a fish,
    You obsequious old person of Brill?"

  

    There was an old person of Wick,
    Who said, "Tick-a-Tick, Tick-a-Tick;
    Chickabee, Chickabaw." And he said nothing more,
    That laconic old person of Wick.

  

    There was an old man at a Station,
    Who made a promiscuous oration;
    But they said, "Take some snuff!--You have talk'd quite enough,
    You afflicting old man at a Station!"

  

    There was an old man of Three Bridges,
    Whose mind was distracted by midges,
    He sate on a wheel, eating underdone veal,
    Which relieved that old man of Three Bridges.

  

    There was an old man of Hong Kong,
    Who never did anything wrong;
    He lay on his back, with his head in a sack,
    That innocuous old man of Hong Kong.

  

    There was a young person in green,
    Who seldom was fit to be seen;
    She wore a long shawl, over bonnet and all,
    Which enveloped that person in green.

  

    There was an old person of Fife,
    Who was greatly disgusted with life;
    They sang him a ballad, and fed him on salad,
    Which cured that old person of Fife.

  

    There was an old man who screamed out
    Whenever they knocked him about:
    So they took off his boots, and fed him with fruits,
    And continued to knock him about.

  

    There was a young lady in white,
    Who looked out at the depths of the night;
    But the birds of the air, filled her heart with despair,
    And oppressed that young lady in white.

  

    There was an old person of Slough,
    Who danced at the end of a bough;
    But they said, "If you sneeze, you might damage the trees,
    You imprudent old person of Slough."

  

    There was an old person of Down,
    Whose face was adorned with a frown;
    When he opened the door, for one minute or more,
    He alarmed all the people of Down.

  

    There was a young person in red,
    Who carefully covered her head,
    With a bonnet of leather, and three lines of feather,
    Besides some long ribands of red.

  

    There was an old person of Hove,
    Who frequented the depths of a grove;
    Where he studied his books, with the wrens and the rooks,
    That tranquil old person of Hove.

  

    There was a young person in pink,
    Who called out for something to drink;
    But they said, "O my daughter, there's nothing but water!"
    Which vexed that young person in pink.

  

    There was an old lady of France,
    Who taught little ducklings to dance;
    When she said, "Tick-a-tack!" they only said, "Quack!"
    Which grieved that old lady of France.

  

    There was an old person of Putney,
    Whose food was roast spiders and chutney,
    Which he took with his tea, within sight of the sea,
    That romantic old person of Putney.

  

    There was an old person of Loo,
    Who said, "What on earth shall I do?"
    When they said, "Go away!" she continued to stay,
    That vexatious old person of Loo.

  

    There was an old person of Woking,
    Whose mind was perverse and provoking;
    He sate on a rail, with his head in a pail,
    That illusive old person of Woking.

  

    There was an old person of Dean
    Who dined on one pea, and one bean;
    For he said, "More than that, would make me too fat,"
    That cautious old person of Dean.

  

    There was a young lady in blue,
    Who said, "Is it you? Is it you?"
    When they said, "Yes, it is," she replied only, "Whizz!"
    That ungracious young lady in blue.

  

    There was an old Man in a Garden,
    Who always begged every one's pardon;
    When they asked him, "What for?" he replied, "You're a bore!
    And I trust you'll go out of my garden."

  

    There was an old person of Pisa,
    Whose daughters did nothing to please her;
    She dressed them in gray, and banged them all day,
    Round the walls of the city of Pisa.

  

    There was an old person of Florence,
    Who held mutton chops in abhorrence;
    He purchased a Bustard, and fried him in Mustard,
    Which choked that old person of Florence.

  

    There was an old person of Sheen,
    Whose expression was calm and serene;
    He sate in the water, and drank bottled porter,
    That placid old person of Sheen.

  

    There was an old person of Ware,
    Who rode on the back of a bear;
    When they ask'd, "Does it trot?" he said, "Certainly not!
    He's a Moppsikon Floppsikon bear!"

  

    There was a young person of Janina,
    Whose uncle was always a fanning her;
    When he fanned off her head, she smiled sweetly, and said,
    "You propitious old person of Janina!"

  

    There was an old man of Cashmere,
    Whose movements were scroobious and queer;
    Being slender and tall, he looked over a wall,
    And perceived two fat ducks of Cashmere.

  

    There was an old person of Cassel,
    Whose nose finished off in a tassel;
    But they call'd out, "Oh well! don't it look like a bell!"
    Which perplexed that old person of Cassel.

  

    There was an old person of Pett,
    Who was partly consumed by regret;
    He sate in a cart, and ate cold apple tart,
    Which relieved that old person of Pett.

  

    There was an old man of Spithead,
    Who opened the window, and said,--
    "Fil-jomble, fil-jumble, fil-rumble-come-tumble!"
    That doubtful old man of Spithead.

  

    There was an old man on the Border,
    Who lived in the utmost disorder;
    He danced with the cat, and made tea in his hat,
    Which vexed all the folks on the Border.

  

    There was an old man of Dumbree,
    Who taught little owls to drink tea;
    For he said, "To eat mice is not proper or nice,"
    That amiable man of Dumbree.

  

    There was an old person of Filey,
    Of whom his acquaintance spoke highly;
    He danced perfectly well, to the sound of a bell,
    And delighted the people of Filey.

  

    There was an old man whose remorse
    Induced him to drink Caper Sauce;
    For they said, "If mixed up with some cold claret-cup,
    It will certainly soothe your remorse!"

  

    There was an old man of Ibreem,
    Who suddenly threaten'd to scream;
    But they said, "If you do, we will thump you quite blue,
    You disgusting old man of Ibreem!"

  

    There was an old person of Wilts,
    Who constantly walked upon stilts;
    He wreathed them with lilies and daffy-down-dillies,
    That elegant person of Wilts.

  

    There was an old person of Grange,
    Whose manners were scroobious and strange;
    He sailed to St. Blubb in a waterproof tub,
    That aquatic old person of Grange.

  

    There was an old person of Newry,
    Whose manners were tinctured with fury;
    He tore all the rugs, and broke all the jugs,
    Within twenty miles' distance of Newry.

  

    There was an old man of Dumblane,
    Who greatly resembled a crane;
    But they said, "Is it wrong, since your legs are so long,
    To request you won't stay in Dumblane?"

  

    There was an old man of Port Grigor,
    Whose actions were noted for vigour;
    He stood on his head till his waistcoat turned red,
    That eclectic old man of Port Grigor.

  

    There was an old man of El Hums,
    Who lived upon nothing but crumbs,
    Which he picked off the ground, with the other birds round,
    In the roads and the lanes of El Hums.

  

    There was an old man of West Dumpet,
    Who possessed a large nose like a trumpet;
    When he blew it aloud, it astonished the crowd,
    And was heard through the whole of West Dumpet.

  

    There was an old person of Sark,
    Who made an unpleasant remark;
    But they said, "Don't you see what a brute you must be,
    You obnoxious old person of Sark!"

  

    There was an old man whose despair
    Induced him to purchase a hare:
    Whereon one fine day he rode wholly away,
    Which partly assuaged his despair.

  

    There was an old person of Barnes,
    Whose garments were covered with darns;
    But they said, "Without doubt, you will soon wear them out,
    You luminous person of Barnes!"

  

    There was an old person of Nice,
    Whose associates were usually Geese.
    They walked out together in all sorts of weather,
    That affable person of Nice!

  

    There was a young lady of Greenwich,
    Whose garments were border'd with Spinach;
    But a large spotty Calf bit her shawl quite in half,
    Which alarmed that young lady of Greenwich.

  

    There was an old person of Cannes,
    Who purchased three fowls and a fan;
    Those she placed on a stool, and to make them feel cool
    She constantly fanned them at Cannes.

  

    There was an old person of Ickley,
    Who could not abide to ride quickly;
    He rode to Karnak on a tortoise's back,
    That moony old person of Ickley.

  

    There was an old person of Hyde,
    Who walked by the shore with his bride,
    Till a Crab who came near fill'd their bosoms with fear,
    And they said, "Would we'd never left Hyde!"

  

    There was an old person in gray,
    Whose feelings were tinged with dismay;
    She purchased two parrots, and fed them with carrots,
    Which pleased that old person in gray.

  

    There was an old man of Ancona,
    Who found a small dog with no owner,
    Which he took up and down all the streets of the town,
    That anxious old man of Ancona.

  

    There was an old person of Sestri,
    Who sate himself down in the vestry;
    When they said, "You are wrong!" he merely said "Bong!"
    That repulsive old person of Sestri.

  

    There was an old person of Blythe,
    Who cut up his meat with a scythe;
    When they said, "Well! I never!" he cried, "Scythes for ever!"
    That lively old person of Blythe.

  

    There was a young person of Ayr,
    Whose head was remarkably square:
    On the top, in fine weather, she wore a gold feather;
    Which dazzled the people of Ayr.

  

    There was an old person of Rimini,
    Who said, "Gracious! Goodness! O Gimini!"
    When they said, "Please be still!" she ran down a hill,
    And was never more heard of at Rimini.

  

    There is a young lady, whose nose,
    Continually prospers and grows;
    When it grew out of sight, she exclaimed in a fright,
    "Oh! Farewell to the end of my nose!"

  

    There was an old person of Ealing,
    Who was wholly devoid of good feeling;
    He drove a small gig, with three Owls and a Pig,
    Which distressed all the people of Ealing.

  

    There was an old man of Thames Ditton,
    Who called out for something to sit on;
    But they brought him a hat, and said, "Sit upon that,
    You abruptious old man of Thames Ditton!"

  

    There was an old person of Bray,
    Who sang through the whole of the day
    To his ducks and his pigs, whom he fed upon figs,
    That valuable person of Bray.

  

    There was a young person whose history
    Was always considered a mystery;
    She sate in a ditch, although no one knew which,
    And composed a small treatise on history.

  

    There was an old person of Bow,
    Whom nobody happened to know;
    So they gave him some soap, and said coldly, "We hope
    You will go back directly to Bow!"

  

    There was an old person of Rye,
    Who went up to town on a fly;
    But they said, "If you cough, you are safe to fall off!
    You abstemious old person of Rye!"

  

    There was an old person of Crowle,
    Who lived in the nest of an owl;
    When they screamed in the nest, he screamed out with the rest,
    That depressing old person of Crowle.

  

    There was an old Lady of Winchelsea,
    Who said, "If you needle or pin shall see
    On the floor of my room, sweep it up with the broom!"
    That exhaustive old Lady of Winchelsea!

  

    There was an old man in a tree,
    Whose whiskers were lovely to see;
    But the birds of the air pluck'd them perfectly bare,
    To make themselves nests in that tree.

  

    There was a young lady of Corsica,
    Who purchased a little brown saucy-cur;
    Which she fed upon ham, and hot raspberry jam,
    That expensive young lady of Corsica.

  

    There was a young lady of Firle,
    Whose hair was addicted to curl;
    It curled up a tree, and all over the sea,
    That expansive young lady of Firle.

  

    There was an old person of Stroud,
    Who was horribly jammed in a crowd;
    Some she slew with a kick, some she scrunched with a stick,
    That impulsive old person of Stroud.

  

    There was an old man of Boulak,
    Who sate on a Crocodile's back;
    But they said, "Towr'ds the night he may probably bite,
    Which might vex you, old man of Boulak!"

  

    There was an old person of Skye,
    Who waltz'd with a Bluebottle fly:
    They buzz'd a sweet tune, to the light of the moon,
    And entranced all the people of Skye.

  

    There was an old man of Blackheath,
    Whose head was adorned with a wreath
    Of lobsters and spice, pickled onions and mice,
    That uncommon old man of Blackheath.

  

    There was an old man, who when little
    Fell casually into a kettle;
    But, growing too stout, he could never get out,
    So he passed all his life in that kettle.

  

    There was an old person of Dundalk,
    Who tried to teach fishes to walk;
    When they tumbled down dead, he grew weary, and said,
    "I had better go back to Dundalk!"

  

    There was an old person of Shoreham,
    Whose habits were marked by decorum;
    He bought an Umbrella, and sate in the cellar,
    Which pleased all the people of Shoreham.

  

    There was an old person of Bar,
    Who passed all her life in a jar,
    Which she painted pea-green, to appear more serene,
    That placid old person of Bar.

  

    There was a young person of Kew,
    Whose virtues and vices were few;
    But with blamable haste she devoured some hot paste,
    Which destroyed that young person of Kew.

  

    There was an old person of Jodd,
    Whose ways were perplexing and odd;
    She purchased a whistle, and sate on a thistle,
    And squeaked to the people of Jodd.

  

    There was an old person of Bude,
    Whose deportment was vicious and crude;
    He wore a large ruff of pale straw-colored stuff,
    Which perplexed all the people of Bude.

  

    There was an old person of Brigg,
    Who purchased no end of a wig;
    So that only his nose, and the end of his toes,
    Could be seen when he walked about Brigg.

  

    There was an old man of Messina,
    Whose daughter was named Opsibeena;
    She wore a small wig, and rode out on a pig,
    To the perfect delight of Messina.




TWENTY-SIX NONSENSE RHYMES AND PICTURES.


  

    The Absolutely Abstemious Ass,
    who resided in a Barrel, and only lived on
    Soda Water and Pickled Cucumbers.

  

    The Bountiful Beetle,
    who always carried a Green Umbrella when it didn't rain,
    and left it at home when it did.

  

    The Comfortable Confidential Cow,
    who sate in her Red Morocco Arm Chair and
    toasted her own Bread at the parlour Fire.

  

    The Dolomphious Duck,
    who caught Spotted Frogs for her dinner
    with a Runcible Spoon.

  

    The Enthusiastic Elephant,
    who ferried himself across the water with the
    Kitchen Poker and a New pair of Ear-rings.

  

    The Fizzgiggious Fish,
    who always walked about upon Stilts,
    because he had no legs.

  

    The Good-natured Grey Gull,
    who carried the Old Owl, and his Crimson Carpet-bag,
    across the river, because he could not swim.

  

    The Hasty Higgeldipiggledy Hen,
    who went to market in a Blue Bonnet and Shawl,
    and bought a Fish for her Supper.

  

    The Inventive Indian,
    who caught a Remarkable Rabbit in a
    Stupendous Silver Spoon.

  

    The Judicious Jubilant Jay,
    who did up her Back Hair every morning with a Wreath of Roses,
    Three feathers, and a Gold Pin.

  

    The Kicking Kangaroo,
    who wore a Pale Pink Muslin dress
    with Blue spots.

  

    The Lively Learned Lobster,
    who mended his own Clothes with
    a Needle and Thread.

  

    The Melodious Meritorious Mouse,
    who played a merry minuet on the
    Piano-forte.

  

    The Nutritious Newt,
    who purchased a Round Plum-pudding
    for his grand-daughter.

  

    The Obsequious Ornamental Ostrich,
    who wore Boots to keep his
    feet quite dry.


    The Perpendicular Purple Polly,
    who read the Newspaper and ate Parsnip Pie
    with his Spectacles.

  

    The Queer Querulous Quail,
    who smoked a Pipe of tobacco on the top of
    a Tin Tea-kettle.

  

    The Rural Runcible Raven,
    who wore a White Wig and flew away
    with the Carpet Broom.

  

    The Scroobious Snake,
    who always wore a Hat on his Head, for
    fear he should bite anybody.

  

    The Tumultuous Tom-tommy Tortoise,
    who beat a Drum all day long in the
    middle of the wilderness.

  

    The Umbrageous Umbrella-maker,
    whose Face nobody ever saw, because it was
    always covered by his Umbrella.

  

    The Visibly Vicious Vulture,
    who wrote some Verses to a Veal-cutlet in a
    Volume bound in Vellum.

  

    The Worrying Whizzing Wasp,
    who stood on a Table, and played sweetly on a
    Flute with a Morning Cap.

  

    The Excellent Double-extra XX
    imbibing King Xerxes, who lived a
    long while ago.

  

    The Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo,
    whose Head was ever so much bigger than his
    Body, and whose Hat was rather small.

  

    The Zigzag Zealous Zebra,
    who carried five Monkeys on his back all
    the way to Jellibolee.



NONSENSE SONGS

Stories, Botany, and Alphabets

by

EDWARD LEAR







[Illustration]



CONTENTS

    NONSENSE SONGS.
        THE OWL AND THE PUSSY-CAT
        THE DUCK AND THE KANGAROO
        THE DADDY LONG-LEGS AND THE FLY
        THE JUMBLIES
        THE NUTCRACKERS AND THE SUGAR-TONGS
        CALICO PIE
        MR. AND MRS. SPIKKY SPARROW
        THE BROOM, THE SHOVEL, THE POKER, AND THE TONGS THE TABLE AND THE
        CHAIR

    NONSENSE STORIES.
        THE STORY OF THE FOUR LITTLE CHILDREN WHO WENT ROUND THE WORLD
        THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN FAMILIES OF THE LAKE PIPPLE-POPPLE

    NONSENSE COOKERY

    NONSENSE BOTANY

    NONSENSE ALPHABET, No. 1
      "  "  No. 2
      "  "  No. 3





NONSENSE SONGS.


THE OWL AND THE PUSSY-CAT.

[Illustration]

                    I.

    The Owl and the Pussy-Cat went to sea
      In a beautiful pea-green boat:
    They took some honey, and plenty of money
      Wrapped up in a five-pound note.
    The Owl looked up to the stars above,
      And sang to a small guitar,
   "O lovely Pussy, O Pussy, my love,
        What a beautiful Pussy you are,
          You are,
          You are!
      What a beautiful Pussy you are!"


                    II.

    Pussy said to the Owl, "You elegant fowl,
      How charmingly sweet you sing!
    Oh! let us be married; too long we have tarried:
      But what shall we do for a ring?"
    They sailed away, for a year and a day,
      To the land where the bong-tree grows;
    And there in a wood a Piggy-wig stood,
      With a ring at the end of his nose,
          His nose,
          His nose,
      With a ring at the end of his nose.


                    III.

    "Dear Pig, are you willing to sell for one shilling
      Your ring?" Said the Piggy, "I will."
    So they took it away, and were married next day
      By the Turkey who lives on the hill.
    They dined on mince and slices of quince,
      Which they ate with a runcible spoon;
    And hand in hand, on the edge of the sand,
      They danced by the light of the moon,
          The moon,
          The moon,
    They danced by the light of the moon.

[Illustration]




THE DUCK AND THE KANGAROO.

[Illustration]

                    I.

    Said the Duck to the Kangaroo,
       "Good gracious! how you hop
    Over the fields, and the water too,
        As if you never would stop!
    My life is a bore in this nasty pond;
    And I long to go out in the world beyond:
        I wish I could hop like you,"
        Said the Duck to the Kangaroo.


                    II.

   "Please give me a ride on your back,"
        Said the Duck to the Kangaroo:
   "I would sit quite still, and say nothing but 'Quack'
        The whole of the long day through;
    And we 'd go the Dee, and the Jelly Bo Lee,
    Over the land, and over the sea:
        Please take me a ride! oh, do!"
        Said the Duck to the Kangaroo.

              [Illustration]


                    III.

    Said the Kangaroo to the Duck,
       "This requires some little reflection.
    Perhaps, on the whole, it might bring me luck;
        And there seems but one objection;
    Which is, if you'll let me speak so bold,
    Your feet are unpleasantly wet and cold,
        And would probably give me the roo-
        Matiz," said the Kangaroo.

              [Illustration]


                    IV.

    Said the Duck, "As I sate on the rocks,
        I have thought over that completely;
    And I bought four pairs of worsted socks,
        Which fit my web-feet neatly;
    And, to keep out the cold, I've bought a cloak;
    And every day a cigar I'll smoke;
        All to follow my own dear true
        Love of a Kangaroo."


                    V.

    Said the Kangaroo, "I'm ready,
        All in the moonlight pale;
    But to balance me well, dear Duck, sit steady,
        And quite at the end of my tail."
    So away they went with a hop and a bound;
    And they hopped the whole world three times round.
        And who so happy, oh! who,
        As the Duck and the Kangaroo?

             [Illustration]




THE DADDY LONG-LEGS AND THE FLY.

[Illustration]

                    I.

    Once Mr. Daddy Long-legs,
        Dressed in brown and gray,
    Walked about upon the sands
        Upon a summer's day:
    And there among the pebbles,
        When the wind was rather cold,
    He met with Mr. Floppy Fly,
        All dressed in blue and gold;
    And, as it was too soon to dine,
    They drank some periwinkle-wine,
    And played an hour or two, or more,
    At battlecock and shuttledore.


                    II.

    Said Mr. Daddy Long-legs
        To Mr. Floppy Fly,
    "Why do you never come to court?
        I wish you 'd tell me why.
    All gold and shine, in dress so fine,
        You'd quite delight the court.
    Why do you never go at all?
        I really think you _ought_.
    And, if you went, you'd see such sights!
    Such rugs and jugs and candle-lights!
    And, more than all, the king and queen,--
    One in red, and one in green."


                    III.

    "O Mr. Daddy Long-legs!"
        Said Mr. Floppy Fly,
    "It's true I never go to court;
        And I will tell you why.
    If I had six long legs like yours,
        At once I'd go to court;
    But, oh! I can't, because _my_ legs
        Are so extremely short.
    And I'm afraid the king and queen
    (One in red, and one in green)
    Would say aloud, 'You are not fit,
    You Fly, to come to court a bit!'"


                    IV.

    "Oh, Mr. Daddy Long-legs!"
        Said Mr. Floppy Fly,
    "I wish you 'd sing one little song,
        One mumbian melody.
    You used to sing so awful well
        In former days gone by;
    But now you never sing at all:
        I wish you'd tell me why:
    For, if you would, the silvery sound
    Would please the shrimps and cockles round,
    And all the crabs would gladly come
    To hear you sing, 'Ah, Hum di Hum!'"


                    V.

    Said Mr. Daddy Long-legs,
       "I can never sing again;
    And, if you wish, I'll tell you why,
        Although it gives me pain.
    For years I cannot hum a bit,
        Or sing the smallest song;
    And this the dreadful reason is,--
        My legs are grown too long!
    My six long legs, all here and there,
    Oppress my bosom with despair;
    And, if I stand or lie or sit,
    I cannot sing one single bit!"


                    VI.

    So Mr. Daddy Long-legs
        And Mr. Floppy Fly
    Sat down in silence by the sea,
        And gazed upon the sky.
    They said, "This is a dreadful thing!
        The world has all gone wrong,
    Since one has legs too short by half,
        The other much too long.
    One never more can go to court,
    Because his legs have grown too short;
    The other cannot sing a song,
    Because his legs have grown too long!"


                    VII.

    Then Mr. Daddy Long-legs
        And Mr. Floppy Fly
    Rushed downward to the foamy sea
        With one sponge-taneous cry:
    And there they found a little boat,
        Whose sails were pink and gray;
    And off they sailed among the waves,
        Far and far away:
    They sailed across the silent main,
    And reached the great Gromboolian Plain;
    And there they play forevermore
    At battlecock and shuttledore.

[Illustration]




THE JUMBLIES.

[Illustration]

                    I.

    They went to sea in a sieve, they did;
        In a sieve they went to sea:
    In spite of all their friends could say,
    On a winter's morn, on a stormy day,
        In a sieve they went to sea.
    And when the sieve turned round and round,
    And every one cried, "You'll all be drowned!"
    They called aloud, "Our sieve ain't big;
    But we don't care a button, we don't care a fig:
        In a sieve we'll go to sea!"
             Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
             Their heads are green, and their hands are blue
        And they went to sea in a sieve.


                     II.

    They sailed away in a sieve, they did,
        In a sieve they sailed so fast,
    With only a beautiful pea-green veil
    Tied with a ribbon, by way of a sail,
        To a small tobacco-pipe mast.
    And every one said who saw them go,
   "Oh! won't they be soon upset, you know?
    For the sky is dark, and the voyage is long;
    And, happen what may, it's extremely wrong
        In a sieve to sail so fast."
            Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
            Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
        And they went to sea in a sieve.


                     III.

    The water it soon came in, it did;
        The water it soon came in:
    So, to keep them dry, they wrapped their feet
        In a pinky paper all folded neat;
    And they fastened it down with a pin.
    And they passed the night in a crockery-jar;
    And each of them said, "How wise we are!
    Though the sky be dark, and the voyage be long,
    Yet we never can think we were rash or wrong,
        While round in our sieve we spin."
            Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
            Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
        And they went to sea in a sieve.


                     IV.

    And all night long they sailed away;
        And when the sun went down,
    They whistled and warbled a moony song
        To the echoing sound of a coppery gong,
    In the shade of the mountains brown.
   "O Timballoo! How happy we are
    When we live in a sieve and a crockery-jar!
    And all night long, in the moonlight pale,
    We sail away with a pea-green sail
        In the shade of the mountains brown."
            Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
            Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
        And they went to sea in a sieve.


                     V.

    They sailed to the Western Sea, they did,--
        To a land all covered with trees:
    And they bought an owl, and a useful cart,
        And a pound of rice, and a cranberry-tart,
    And a hive of silvery bees;
    And they bought a pig, and some green jackdaws,
    And a lovely monkey with lollipop paws,
    And forty bottles of ring-bo-ree,
        And no end of Stilton cheese.
            Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
            Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
        And they went to sea in a sieve.


                     VI.

    And in twenty years they all came back,--
        In twenty years or more;
    And every one said, "How tall they've grown!
        For they've been to the Lakes, and the Torrible Zone,
    And the hills of the Chankly Bore."
    And they drank their health, and gave them a feast
    Of dumplings made of beautiful yeast;
    And every one said, "If we only live,
    We, too, will go to sea in a sieve,
        To the hills of the Chankly Bore."
            Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
            Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
        And they went to sea in a sieve.




THE NUTCRACKERS AND THE SUGAR-TONGS.

[Illustration]

                     I.

    The Nutcrackers sate by a plate on the table;
        The Sugar-tongs sate by a plate at his side;
    And the Nutcrackers said, "Don't you wish we were able
        Along the blue hills and green meadows to ride?
    Must we drag on this stupid existence forever,
        So idle and weary, so full of remorse,
    While every one else takes his pleasure, and never
        Seems happy unless he is riding a horse?


                     II.

    "Don't you think we could ride without being instructed,
        Without any saddle or bridle or spur?
    Our legs are so long, and so aptly constructed,
        I'm sure that an accident could not occur.
    Let us all of a sudden hop down from the table,
        And hustle downstairs, and each jump on a horse!
    Shall we try? Shall we go? Do you think we are able?"
        The Sugar-tongs answered distinctly, "Of course!"


                     III.

    So down the long staircase they hopped in a minute;
        The Sugar-tongs snapped, and the Crackers said "Crack!"
    The stable was open; the horses were in it:
        Each took out a pony, and jumped on his back.
    The Cat in a fright scrambled out of the doorway;
        The Mice tumbled out of a bundle of hay;
    The brown and white Rats, and the black ones from Norway,
        Screamed out, "They are taking the horses away!"


                     IV.

    The whole of the household was filled with amazement:
        The Cups and the Saucers danced madly about;
    The Plates and the Dishes looked out of the casement;
        The Salt-cellar stood on his head with a shout;
    The Spoons, with a clatter, looked out of the lattice;
        The Mustard-pot climbed up the gooseberry-pies;
    The Soup-ladle peeped through a heap of veal-patties,
        And squeaked with a ladle-like scream of surprise.


                     V.

    The Frying-pan said, "It's an awful delusion!"
        The Tea-kettle hissed, and grew black in the face;
    And they all rushed downstairs in the wildest confusion
        To see the great Nutcracker-Sugar-tong race.
    And out of the stable, with screamings and laughter
        (Their ponies were cream-colored, speckled with brown),
    The Nutcrackers first, and the Sugar-tongs after;
        Rode all round the yard, and then all round the town.


                     VI.

    They rode through the street, and they rode by the station;
        They galloped away to the beautiful shore;
    In silence they rode, and "made no observation,"
        Save this: "We will never go back any more!"
    And still you might hear, till they rode out of hearing,
        The Sugar-tongs snap, and the Crackers say "Crack!"
    Till, far in the distance their forms disappearing,
        They faded away; and they never came back!




CALICO PIE.

[Illustration]

                     I.

      Calico pie,
      The little birds fly
    Down to the calico-tree:
      Their wings were blue,
      And they sang "Tilly-loo!"
      Till away they flew;
        And they never came back to me!
          They never came back,
          They never came back,
        They never came back to me!


                     II.

      Calico jam,
      The little Fish swam
    Over the Syllabub Sea.
      He took off his hat
      To the Sole and the Sprat,
      And the Willeby-wat:
        But he never came back to me;
          He never came back,
          He never came back,
        He never came back to me.

               [Illustration]


                     III.

      Calico ban,
      The little Mice ran
    To be ready in time for tea;
      Flippity flup,
      They drank it all up,
      And danced in the cup:
        But they never came back to me;
          They never came back,
          They never came back,
        They never came back to me.

               [Illustration]


                     IV.

      Calico drum,
      The Grasshoppers come,
    The Butterfly, Beetle, and Bee,
      Over the ground,
      Around and round,
      With a hop and a bound;
        But they never came back,
          They never came back,
          They never came back.
        They never came back to me.

               [Illustration]




MR. AND MRS. SPIKKY SPARROW.

[Illustration]

                     I.

    On a little piece of wood
    Mr. Spikky Sparrow stood:
    Mrs. Sparrow sate close by,
    A-making of an insect-pie
    For her little children five,
    In the nest and all alive;
    Singing with a cheerful smile,
    To amuse them all the while,
       "Twikky wikky wikky wee,
        Wikky bikky twikky tee,
            Spikky bikky bee!"


                     II.

    Mrs. Spikky Sparrow said,
    "Spikky, darling! in my head
    Many thoughts of trouble come,
    Like to flies upon a plum.
    All last night, among the trees,
    I heard you cough, I heard you sneeze;
    And thought I, 'It's come to that
    Because he does not wear a hat!'
        Chippy wippy sikky tee,
        Bikky wikky tikky mee,
            Spikky chippy wee!


                     III.

    "Not that you are growing old;
    But the nights are growing cold.
    No one stays out all night long
    Without a hat: I'm sure it's wrong!"
    Mr. Spikky said, "How kind,
    Dear, you are, to speak your mind!
    All your life I wish you luck!
    You are, you are, a lovely duck!
        Witchy witchy witchy wee,
        Twitchy witchy witchy bee,
            Tikky tikky tee!


                     IV.

    "I was also sad, and thinking,
    When one day I saw you winking,
    And I heard you sniffle-snuffle,
    And I saw your feathers ruffle:
    To myself I sadly said,
    'She's neuralgia in her head!
    That dear head has nothing on it!
    Ought she not to wear a bonnet?'
        Witchy kitchy kitchy wee,
        Spikky wikky mikky bee,
            Chippy wippy chee!


                     V.

    "Let us both fly up to town:
    There I'll buy you such a gown!
    Which, completely in the fashion,
    You shall tie a sky-blue sash on;
    And a pair of slippers neat
    To fit your darling little feet,
    So that you will look and feel
    Quite galloobious and genteel.
        Jikky wikky bikky see,
        Chicky bikky wikky bee,
            Twicky witchy wee!"


                     VI.

    So they both to London went,
    Alighting on the Monument;
    Whence they flew down swiftly--pop!
    Into Moses' wholesale shop:
    There they bought a hat and bonnet,
    And a gown with spots upon it,
    A satin sash of Cloxam blue,
    And a pair of slippers too.
        Zikky wikky mikky bee,
        Witchy witchy mitchy kee,
            Sikky tikky wee!


                     VII.

    Then, when so completely dressed,
    Back they flew, and reached their nest.
    Their children cried, "O ma and pa!
    How truly beautiful you are!"
    Said they, "We trust that cold or pain
    We shall never feel again;
    While, perched on tree or house or steeple,
    We now shall look like other people.
        Witchy witchy witchy wee,
        Twikky mikky bikky bee,
            Zikky sikky tee!"

               [Illustration]




THE BROOM, THE SHOVEL, THE POKER, AND THE TONGS.

[Illustration]

                     I.

    The Broom and the Shovel, the Poker and Tongs,
      They all took a drive in the Park;
    And they each sang a song, ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
      Before they went back in the dark.
    Mr. Poker he sate quite upright in the coach;
      Mr. Tongs made a clatter and clash;
    Miss Shovel was dressed all in black (with a brooch);
      Mrs. Broom was in blue (with a sash).
        Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
        And they all sang a song.


                     II.

   "O Shovely so lovely!" the Poker he sang,
     "You have perfectly conquered my heart.
    Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong! If you're pleased with my song,
      I will feed you with cold apple-tart.
    When you scrape up the coals with a delicate sound,
      You enrapture my life with delight,
    Your nose is so shiny, your head is so round,
      And your shape is so slender and bright!
        Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
        Ain't you pleased with my song?"


                     III.

   "Alas! Mrs. Broom," sighed the Tongs in his song,
     "Oh! is it because I'm so thin,
    And my legs are so long,--ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!--
      That you don't care about me a pin?
    Ah! fairest of creatures, when sweeping the room,
      Ah! why don't you heed my complaint?
    Must you needs be so cruel, you beautiful Broom,
      Because you are covered with paint?
        Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
        You are certainly wrong."


                     IV.

    Mrs. Broom and Miss Shovel together they sang,
     "What nonsense you're singing to-day!"
    Said the Shovel, "I'll certainly hit you a bang!"
      Said the Broom, "And I'll sweep you away!"
    So the coachman drove homeward as fast as he could,
      Perceiving their anger with pain;
    But they put on the kettle, and little by little
      They all became happy again.
        Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
        There's an end of my song.




THE TABLE AND THE CHAIR.

[Illustration]

                     I.

    Said the Table to the Chair,
    "You can hardly be aware
    How I suffer from the heat
    And from chilblains on my feet.
    If we took a little walk,
    We might have a little talk;
    Pray let us take the air,"
    Said the Table to the Chair.


                     II.

    Said the Chair unto the Table,
    "Now, you _know_ we are not able:
    How foolishly you talk,
    When you know we _cannot_ walk!"
    Said the Table with a sigh,
    "It can do no harm to try.
    I've as many legs as you:
    Why can't we walk on two?"


                     III.

    So they both went slowly down,
    And walked about the town
    With a cheerful bumpy sound
    As they toddled round and round;
    And everybody cried,
    As they hastened to their side,
    "See! the Table and the Chair
    Have come out to take the air!"


                     IV.

    But in going down an alley,
    To a castle in a valley,
    They completely lost their way,
    And wandered all the day;
    Till, to see them safely back,
    They paid a Ducky-quack,
    And a Beetle, and a Mouse,
    Who took them to their house.

              [Illustration]


                     V.

    Then they whispered to each other,
    "O delightful little brother,
    What a lovely walk we've taken!
    Let us dine on beans and bacon."
    So the Ducky and the leetle
    Browny-Mousy and the Beetle
    Dined, and danced upon their heads
    Till they toddled to their beds.

              [Illustration]

       *        *        *        *        *




NONSENSE STORIES.


THE STORY OF THE FOUR LITTLE CHILDREN WHO WENT ROUND THE WORLD.

Once upon a time, a long while ago, there were four little people whose
names were

[Illustration]

VIOLET, SLINGSBY, GUY, and LIONEL;
and they all thought they should like to see the world. So they bought a
large boat to sail quite round the world by sea, and then they were to come
back on the other side by land. The boat was painted blue with green spots,
and the sail was yellow with red stripes: and, when they set off, they only
took a small Cat to steer and look after the boat, besides an elderly
Quangle-Wangle, who had to cook the dinner and make the tea; for which
purposes they took a large kettle.

[Illustration]

For the first ten days they sailed on beautifully, and found plenty to eat,
as there were lots of fish; and they had only to take them out of the sea
with a long spoon, when the Quangle-Wangle instantly cooked them; and the
Pussy-Cat was fed with the bones, with which she expressed herself pleased,
on the whole: so that all the party were very happy.

During the daytime, Violet chiefly occupied herself in putting salt water
into a churn; while her three brothers churned it violently, in the hope
that it would turn into butter, which it seldom if ever did; and in the
evening they all retired into the tea-kettle, where they all managed to
sleep very comfortably, while Pussy and the Quangle-Wangle managed the
boat.

[Illustration]

After a time, they saw some land at a distance; and, when they came to it,
they found it was an island made of water quite surrounded by earth.
Besides that, it was bordered by evanescent isthmuses, with a great
gulf-stream running about all over it; so that it was perfectly beautiful,
and contained only a single tree, 503 feet high.

When they had landed, they walked about, but found, to their great
surprise, that the island was quite full of veal-cutlets and
chocolate-drops, and nothing else. So they all climbed up the single high
tree to discover, if possible, if there were any people; but having
remained on the top of the tree for a week, and not seeing anybody, they
naturally concluded that there were no inhabitants; and accordingly, when
they came down, they loaded the boat with two thousand veal-cutlets and a
million of chocolate-drops; and these afforded them sustenance for more
than a month, during which time they pursued their voyage with the utmost
delight and apathy.

[Illustration]

After this they came to a shore where there were no less than sixty-five
great red parrots with blue tails, sitting on a rail all of a row, and all
fast asleep. And I am sorry to say that the Pussy-Cat and the
Quangle-Wangle crept softly, and bit off the tail-feathers of all the
sixty-five parrots; for which Violet reproved them both severely.

[Illustration]

Notwithstanding which, she proceeded to insert all the feathers--two
hundred and sixty in number--in her bonnet; thereby causing it to have a
lovely and glittering appearance, highly prepossessing and efficacious.

[Illustration]

The next thing that happened to them was in a narrow part of the sea, which
was so entirely full of fishes that the boat could go on no farther: so
they remained there about six weeks, till they had eaten nearly all the
fishes, which were soles, and all ready-cooked, and covered with
shrimp-sauce, so that there was no trouble whatever. And as the few fishes
who remained uneaten complained of the cold, as well as of the difficulty
they had in getting any sleep on account of the extreme noise made by the
arctic bears and the tropical turnspits, which frequented the neighborhood
in great numbers, Violet most amiably knitted a small woollen frock for
several of the fishes, and Slingsby administered some opium-drops to them;
through which kindness they became quite warm, and slept soundly.

[Illustration]

Then they came to a country which was wholly covered with immense
orange-trees of a vast size, and quite full of fruit. So they all landed,
taking with them the tea-kettle, intending to gather some of the oranges,
and place them in it. But, while they were busy about this, a most
dreadfully high wind rose, and blew out most of the parrot-tail feathers
from Violet's bonnet. That, however, was nothing compared with the calamity
of the oranges falling down on their heads by millions and millions, which
thumped and bumped and bumped and thumped them all so seriously, that they
were obliged to run as hard as they could for their lives; besides that the
sound of the oranges rattling on the tea-kettle was of the most fearful and
amazing nature.

[Illustration]

Nevertheless, they got safely to the boat, although considerably vexed and
hurt; and the Quangle-Wangle's right foot was so knocked about, that he had
to sit with his head in his slipper for at least a week.

[Illustration]

This event made them all for a time rather melancholy: and perhaps they
might never have become less so, had not Lionel, with a most praiseworthy
devotion and perseverance, continued to stand on one leg, and whistle to
them in a loud and lively manner; which diverted the whole party so
extremely that they gradually recovered their spirits, and agreed that
whenever they should reach home, they would subscribe towards a testimonial
to Lionel, entirely made of gingerbread and raspberries, as an earnest
token of their sincere and grateful infection.

[Illustration]

After sailing on calmly for several more days, they came to another
country, where they were much pleased and surprised to see a countless
multitude of white Mice with red eyes, all sitting in a great circle,
slowly eating custard-pudding with the most satisfactory and polite
demeanor.

[Illustration]

And as the four travellers were rather hungry, being tired of eating
nothing but soles and oranges for so long a period, they held a council as
to the propriety of asking the Mice for some of their pudding in a humble
and affecting manner, by which they could hardly be otherwise than
gratified. It was agreed, therefore, that Guy should go and ask the Mice,
which he immediately did; and the result was, that they gave a walnut-shell
only half full of custard diluted with water. Now, this displeased Guy, who
said, "Out of such a lot of pudding as you have got, I must say, you might
have spared a somewhat larger quantity." But no sooner had he finished
speaking than the Mice turned round at once, and sneezed at him in an
appalling and vindictive manner (and it is impossible to imagine a more
scroobious and unpleasant sound than that caused by the simultaneous
sneezing of many millions of angry Mice); so that Guy rushed back to the
boat, having first shied his cap into the middle of the custard-pudding, by
which means he completely spoiled the Mice's dinner.

[Illustration]

By and by the four children came to a country where there were no houses,
but only an incredibly innumerable number of large bottles without corks,
and of a dazzling and sweetly susceptible blue color. Each of these blue
bottles contained a Blue-Bottle-Fly; and all these interesting animals live
continually together in the most copious and rural harmony: nor perhaps in
many parts of the world is such perfect and abject happiness to be found.
Violet and Slingsby and Guy and Lionel were greatly struck with this
singular and instructive settlement; and, having previously asked
permission of the Blue-Bottle-Flies (which was most courteously granted),
the boat was drawn up to the shore, and they proceeded to make tea in front
of the bottles: but as they had no tea-leaves, they merely placed some
pebbles in the hot water; and the Quangle-Wangle played some tunes over it
on an accordion, by which, of course, tea was made directly, and of the
very best quality.

The four children then entered into conversation with the
Blue-Bottle-Flies, who discoursed in a placid and genteel manner, though
with a slightly buzzing accent, chiefly owing to the fact that they each
held a small clothes-brush between their teeth, which naturally occasioned
a fizzy, extraneous utterance.

"Why," said Violet, "would you kindly inform us, do you reside in bottles;
and, if in bottles at all, why not, rather, in green or purple, or, indeed,
in yellow bottles?"

To which questions a very aged Blue-Bottle-Fly answered, "We found the
bottles here all ready to live in; that is to say, our great-great-great-
great-great-grandfathers did: so we occupied them at once. And, when the
winter comes on, we turn the bottles upside down, and consequently rarely
feel the cold at all; and you know very well that this could not be the
case with bottles of any other color than blue."

"Of course it could not," said Slingsby. "But, if we may take the liberty
of inquiring, on what do you chiefly subsist?"

"Mainly on oyster-patties," said the Blue-Bottle-Fly; "and, when these are
scarce, on raspberry vinegar and Russian leather boiled down to a jelly."

"How delicious!" said Guy.

To which Lionel added, "Huzz!" And all the Blue-Bottle-Flies said, "Buzz!"

At this time, an elderly Fly said it was the hour for the evening-song to
be sung; and, on a signal being given, all the Blue-Bottle-Flies began to
buzz at once in a sumptuous and sonorous manner, the melodious and
mucilaginous sounds echoing all over the waters, and resounding across the
tumultuous tops of the transitory titmice upon the intervening and verdant
mountains with a serene and sickly suavity only known to the truly
virtuous. The Moon was shining slobaciously from the star-bespangled sky,
while her light irrigated the smooth and shiny sides and wings and backs of
the Blue-Bottle-Flies with a peculiar and trivial splendor, while all
Nature cheerfully responded to the cerulean and conspicuous circumstances.

In many long-after years, the four little travellers looked back to that
evening as one of the happiest in all their lives; and it was already past
midnight when--the sail of the boat having been set up by the
Quangle-Wangle, the tea-kettle and churn placed in their respective
positions, and the Pussy-Cat stationed at the helm--the children each took
a last and affectionate farewell of the Blue-Bottle-Flies, who walked down
in a body to the water's edge to see the travellers embark.

[Illustration]

As a token of parting respect and esteem, Violet made a courtesy quite down
to the ground, and stuck one of her few remaining parrot-tail feathers into
the back hair of the most pleasing of the Blue-Bottle-Flies; while
Slingsby, Guy, and Lionel offered them three small boxes, containing,
respectively, black pins, dried figs, and Epsom salts; and thus they left
that happy shore forever.

Overcome by their feelings, the four little travellers instantly jumped
into the tea-kettle, and fell fast asleep. But all along the shore, for
many hours, there was distinctly heard a sound of severely-suppressed sobs,
and of a vague multitude of living creatures using their
pocket-handkerchiefs in a subdued simultaneous snuffle, lingering sadly
along the walloping waves as the boat sailed farther and farther away from
the Land of the Happy Blue-Bottle-Flies.

Nothing particular occurred for some days after these events, except that,
as the travellers were passing a low tract of sand, they perceived an
unusual and gratifying spectacle; namely, a large number of Crabs and
Crawfish--perhaps six or seven hundred--sitting by the water-side, and
endeavoring to disentangle a vast heap of pale pink worsted, which they
moistened at intervals with a fluid composed of lavender-water and
white-wine negus.

"Can we be of any service to you, O crusty Crabbies?" said the four
children.

"Thank you kindly," said the Crabs consecutively. "We are trying to make
some worsted mittens, but do not know how."

On which Violet, who was perfectly acquainted with the art of
mitten-making, said to the Crabs, "Do your claws unscrew, or are they
fixtures?"

"They are all made to unscrew," said the Crabs; and forthwith they
deposited a great pile of claws close to the boat, with which Violet
uncombed all the pale pink worsted, and then made the loveliest mittens
with it you can imagine. These the Crabs, having resumed and screwed on
their claws, placed cheerfully upon their wrists, and walked away rapidly
on their hind-legs, warbling songs with a silvery voice and in a minor key.

After this, the four little people sailed on again till they came to a vast
and wide plain of astonishing dimensions, on which nothing whatever could
be discovered at first; but, as the travellers walked onward, there
appeared in the extreme and dim distance a single object, which on a nearer
approach, and on an accurately cutaneous inspection, seemed to be somebody
in a large white wig, sitting on an arm-chair made of sponge-cakes and
oyster-shells. "It does not quite look like a human being," said Violet
doubtfully; nor could they make out what it really was, till the
Quangle-Wangle (who had previously been round the world) exclaimed softly
in a loud voice, "It is the co-operative Cauliflower!"

[Illustration]

And so, in truth, it was: and they soon found that what they had taken for
an immense wig was in reality the top of the Cauliflower; and that he had
no feet at all, being able to walk tolerably well with a fluctuating and
graceful movement on a single cabbage-stalk,--an accomplishment which
naturally saved him the expense of stockings and shoes.

Presently, while the whole party from the boat was gazing at him with
mingled affection and disgust, he suddenly arose, and, in a somewhat
plumdomphious manner, hurried off towards the setting sun,--his steps
supported by two superincumbent confidential Cucumbers, and a large number
of Waterwagtails proceeding in advance of him by three and three in a
row,--till he finally disappeared on the brink of the western sky in a
crystal cloud of sudorific sand.

[Illustration]

So remarkable a sight, of course, impressed the four children very deeply;
and they returned immediately to their boat with a strong sense of
undeveloped asthma and a great appetite.

Shortly after this, the travellers were obliged to sail directly below some
high overhanging rocks, from the top of one of which a particularly odious
little boy, dressed in rose-colored knickerbockers, and with a pewter plate
upon his head, threw an enormous pumpkin at the boat, by which it was
instantly upset.

[Illustration]

But this upsetting was of no consequence, because all the party knew how to
swim very well: and, in fact, they preferred swimming about till after the
moon rose; when, the water growing chilly, they sponge-taneously entered
the boat. Meanwhile the Quangle-Wangle threw back the pumpkin with immense
force, so that it hit the rocks where the malicious little boy in
rose-colored knickerbockers was sitting; when, being quite full of
lucifer-matches, the pumpkin exploded surreptitiously into a thousand bits;
whereon the rocks instantly took fire, and the odious little boy became
unpleasantly hotter and hotter and hotter, till his knickerbockers were
turned quite green, and his nose was burnt off.

Two or three days after this had happened, they came to another place,
where they found nothing at all except some wide and deep pits full of
mulberry-jam. This is the property of the tiny, yellow-nosed Apes who
abound in these districts, and who store up the mulberry-jam for their food
in winter, when they mix it with pellucid pale periwinkle-soup, and serve
it out in wedgewood china-bowls, which grow freely all over that part of
the country. Only one of the yellow-nosed Apes was on the spot, and he was
fast asleep; yet the four travellers and the Quangle-Wangle and Pussy were
so terrified by the violence and sanguinary sound of his snoring, that they
merely took a small cupful of the jam, and returned to re-embark in their
boat without delay.

What was their horror on seeing the boat (including the churn and the
tea-kettle) in the mouth of an enormous Seeze Pyder, an aquatic and
ferocious creature truly dreadful to behold, and, happily, only met with in
those excessive longitudes! In a moment, the beautiful boat was bitten into
fifty-five thousand million hundred billion bits; and it instantly became
quite clear that Violet, Slingsby, Guy, and Lionel could no longer
preliminate their voyage by sea.

The four travellers were therefore obliged to resolve on pursuing their
wanderings by land: and, very fortunately, there happened to pass by at
that moment an elderly Rhinoceros, on which they seized; and, all four
mounting on his back,--the Quangle-Wangle sitting on his horn, and holding
on by his ears, and the Pussy-Cat swinging at the end of his tail,--they
set off, having only four small beans and three pounds of mashed potatoes
to last through their whole journey.

[Illustration]

They were, however, able to catch numbers of the chickens and turkeys and
other birds who incessantly alighted on the head of the Rhinoceros for the
purpose of gathering the seeds of the rhododendron-plants which grew
there; and these creatures they cooked in the most translucent and
satisfactory manner by means of a fire lighted on the end of the
Rhinoceros's back. A crowd of Kangaroos and gigantic Cranes accompanied
them, from feelings of curiosity and complacency; so that they were never
at a loss for company, and went onward, as it were, in a sort of profuse
and triumphant procession.

Thus in less than eighteen weeks they all arrived safely at home, where
they were received by their admiring relatives with joy tempered with
contempt, and where they finally resolved to carry out the rest of their
travelling-plans at some more favorable opportunity.

As for the Rhinoceros, in token of their grateful adherence, they had him
killed and stuffed directly, and then set him up outside the door of their
father's house as a diaphanous doorscraper.

[Illustration]




THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN FAMILIES OF
THE LAKE PIPPLE-POPPLE.


CHAPTER I.

INTRODUCTORY.

In former days,--that is to say, once upon a time,--there lived in the Land
of Gramble-Blamble seven families. They lived by the side of the great Lake
Pipple-Popple (one of the seven families, indeed, lived _in_ the lake), and
on the outskirts of the city of Tosh, which, excepting when it was quite
dark, they could see plainly. The names of all these places you have
probably heard of; and you have only not to look in your geography-books to
find out all about them.

Now, the seven families who lived on the borders of the great Lake
Pipple-Popple were as follows in the next chapter.


CHAPTER II.

THE SEVEN FAMILIES.

There was a family of two old Parrots and seven young Parrots.

[Illustration]

There was a family of two old Storks and seven young Storks.

[Illustration]

There was a family of two old Geese and seven young Geese.

[Illustration]

There was a family of two old Owls and seven young Owls.

[Illustration]

There was a family of two old Guinea Pigs and seven young Guinea Pigs.

[Illustration]

There was a family of two old Cats and seven young Cats.

[Illustration]

And there was a family of two old Fishes and seven young Fishes.

[Illustration]


CHAPTER III.

THE HABITS OF THE SEVEN FAMILIES.

The Parrots lived upon the Soffsky-Poffsky trees, which were beautiful to
behold, and covered with blue leaves; and they fed upon fruit, artichokes,
and striped beetles.

The Storks walked in and out of the Lake Pipple-Popple, and ate frogs for
breakfast, and buttered toast for tea; but on account of the extreme length
of their legs they could not sit down, and so they walked about
continually.

The Geese, having webs to their feet, caught quantities of flies, which
they ate for dinner.

The Owls anxiously looked after mice, which they caught, and made into
sago-puddings.

The Guinea Pigs toddled about the gardens, and ate lettuces and Cheshire
cheese.

The Cats sate still in the sunshine, and fed upon sponge biscuits.

The Fishes lived in the lake, and fed chiefly on boiled periwinkles.

And all these seven families lived together in the utmost fun and felicity.


CHAPTER IV.

THE CHILDREN OF THE SEVEN FAMILIES ARE SENT AWAY.

One day all the seven fathers and the seven mothers of the seven families
agreed that they would send their children out to see the world.

So they called them all together, and gave them each eight shillings and
some good advice, some chocolate-drops, and a small green morocco
pocket-book to set down their expenses in.

They then particularly entreated them not to quarrel; and all the parents
sent off their children with a parting injunction.

"If," said the old Parrots, "you find a cherry, do not fight about who
should have it."

"And," said the old Storks, "if you find a frog, divide it carefully into
seven bits, but on no account quarrel about it."

And the old Geese said to the seven young Geese, "Whatever you do, be sure
you do not touch a plum-pudding flea."

And the old Owls said, "If you find a mouse, tear him up into seven slices,
and eat him cheerfully, but without quarrelling."

And the old Guinea Pigs said, "Have a care that you eat your lettuces,
should you find any, not greedily, but calmly."

And the old Cats said, "Be particularly careful not to meddle with a
clangle-wangle if you should see one."

And the old Fishes said, "Above all things, avoid eating a blue boss-woss;
for they do not agree with fishes, and give them a pain in their toes."

So all the children of each family thanked their parents; and, making in
all forty-nine polite bows, they went into the wide world.



CHAPTER V.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG PARROTS.

The seven young Parrots had not gone far, when they saw a tree with a
single cherry on it, which the oldest Parrot picked instantly; but the
other six, being extremely hungry, tried to get it also. On which all the
seven began to fight; and they
scuffled,
     and huffled,
       and ruffled,
         and shuffled,
           and puffled,
             and muffled,
               and buffled,
                 and duffled,
                   and fluffled,
                     and guffled,
                       and bruffled,
                         and screamed, and shrieked, and squealed,
and squeaked, and clawed, and snapped, and bit, and bumped, and thumped,
and dumped, and flumped each other, till they were all torn into little
bits; and at last there was nothing left to record this painful incident
except the cherry and seven small green feathers.

And that was the vicious and voluble end of the seven young Parrots.

[Illustration]


CHAPTER VI.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG STORKS.

When the seven young Storks set out, they walked or flew for fourteen weeks
in a straight line, and for six weeks more in a crooked one; and after that
they ran as hard as they could for one hundred and eight miles; and after
that they stood still, and made a himmeltanious chatter-clatter-blattery
noise with their bills.

About the same time they perceived a large frog, spotted with green, and
with a sky-blue stripe under each ear.

So, being hungry, they immediately flew at him, and were going to divide
him into seven pieces, when they began to quarrel as to which of his legs
should be taken off first. One said this, and another said that; and while
they were all quarrelling, the frog hopped away. And when they saw that he
was gone, they began to
  chatter-clatter,
      blatter-platter,
          patter-blatter,
              matter-clatter,
                  flatter-quatter,
more violently than ever; and after they
had fought for a week, they pecked each other all to little pieces, so that
at last nothing was left of any of them except their bills.

And that was the end of the seven young Storks.

[Illustration]


CHAPTER VII.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG GEESE.

When the seven young Geese began to travel, they went over a large plain,
on which there was but one tree, and that was, a very bad one.

So four of them went up to the top of it, and looked about them; while the
other three waddled up and down, and repeated poetry, and their last six
lessons in arithmetic, geography, and cookery.

Presently they perceived, a long way off, an object of the most interesting
and obese appearance, having a perfectly round body exactly resembling a
boiled plum-pudding, with two little wings, and a beak, and three feathers
growing out of his head, and only one leg.

So, after a time, all the seven young Geese said to each other, "Beyond all
doubt this beast must be a Plum-pudding Flea!"

On which they incautiously began to sing aloud,

       "Plum-pudding Flea,
        Plum-pudding Flea,
        Wherever you be,
        Oh! come to our tree,
    And listen, oh! listen, oh! listen to me!"

And no sooner had they sung this verse than the Plum-pudding Flea began to
hop and skip on his one leg with the most dreadful velocity, and came
straight to the tree, where he stopped, and looked about him in a vacant
and voluminous manner.

On which the seven young Geese were greatly alarmed, and all of a
tremble-bemble: so one of them put out his long neck, and just touched him
with the tip of his bill; but no sooner had he done this than the
Plum-pudding Flea skipped and hopped about more and more, and higher and
higher; after which he opened his mouth, and, to the great surprise and
indignation of the seven Geese, began to bark so loudly and furiously and
terribly, that they were totally unable to bear the noise; and by degrees
every one of them suddenly tumbled down quite dead.

So that was the end of the seven young Geese.

[Illustration]


CHAPTER VIII.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG OWLS.

When the seven young Owls set out, they sate every now and then on the
branches of old trees, and never went far at one time.

And one night, when it was quite dark, they thought they heard a mouse;
but, as the gas-lamps were not lighted, they could not see him.

So they called out, "Is that a mouse?"

On which a mouse answered, "Squeaky-peeky-weeky! yes, it is!"

And immediately all the young Owls threw themselves off the tree, meaning
to alight on the ground; but they did not perceive that there was a large
well below them, into which they all fell superficially, and were every one
of them drowned in less than half a minute.

So that was the end of the seven young Owls.

[Illustration]


CHAPTER IX.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG GUINEA PIGS.

The seven young Guinea Pigs went into a garden full of goose-berry-bushes
and tiggory-trees, under one of which they fell asleep. When they awoke,
they saw a large lettuce, which had grown out of the ground while they had
been sleeping, and which had an immense number of green leaves. At which
they all exclaimed,--

   "Lettuce! O lettuce
    Let us, O let us,
    O lettuce-leaves,
    O let us leave this tree, and eat
    Lettuce, O let us, lettuce-leaves!"

And instantly the seven young Guinea Pigs rushed with such extreme force
against the lettuce-plant, and hit their heads so vividly against its
stalk, that the concussion brought on directly an incipient transitional
inflammation of their noses, which grew worse and worse and worse and
worse, till it incidentally killed them all seven.

And that was the end of the seven young Guinea Pigs.

[Illustration]


CHAPTER X.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG CATS.

The seven young Cats set off on their travels with great delight and
rapacity. But, on coming to the top of a high hill, they perceived at a
long distance off a Clangle-Wangle (or, as it is more properly written,
Clangel-Wangel); and, in spite of the warning they had had, they ran
straight up to it.

(Now, the Clangle-Wangle is a most dangerous and delusive beast, and by no
means commonly to be met with. They live in the water as well as on land,
using their long tail as a sail when in the former element. Their speed is
extreme; but their habits of life are domestic and superfluous, and their
general demeanor pensive and pellucid. On summer evenings, they may
sometimes be observed near the Lake Pipple-Popple, standing on their heads,
and humming their national melodies. They subsist entirely on vegetables,
excepting when they eat veal or mutton or pork or beef or fish or
saltpetre.)

The moment the Clangle-Wangle saw the seven young Cats approach, he ran
away; and as he ran straight on for four months, and the Cats, though they
continued to run, could never overtake him, they all gradually _died_ of
fatigue and exhaustion, and never afterwards recovered.

And this was the end of the seven young Cats.

[Illustration]


CHAPTER XI.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG FISHES.

The seven young Fishes swam across the Lake Pipple-Popple, and into the
river, and into the ocean; where, most unhappily for them, they saw, on the
fifteenth day of their travels, a bright-blue Boss-Woss, and instantly swam
after him. But the Blue Boss-Woss plunged into a
    perpendicular,
        spicular,
            orbicular,
                quadrangular,
                     circular depth of soft mud;
where, in fact, his house was.

And the seven young Fishes, swimming with great and uncomfortable velocity,
plunged also into the mud quite against their will, and, not being
accustomed to it, were all suffocated in a very short period.

And that was the end of the seven young Fishes.

[Illustration]


CHAPTER XII.

OF WHAT OCCURRED SUBSEQUENTLY.

After it was known that the

            seven young Parrots,
    and the seven young Storks,
    and the seven young Geese,
    and the seven young Owls,
    and the seven young Guinea Pigs,
    and the seven young Cats,
    and the seven young Fishes,

were all dead, then the Frog, and the Plum-pudding Flea, and the Mouse, and
the Clangle-Wangle, and the Blue Boss-Woss, all met together to rejoice
over their good fortune. And they collected the seven feathers of the seven
young Parrots, and the seven bills of the seven young Storks, and the
lettuce, and the cherry; and having placed the latter on the lettuce, and
the other objects in a circular arrangement at their base, they danced a
hornpipe round all these memorials until they were quite tired; after which
they gave a tea-party, and a garden-party, and a ball, and a concert, and
then returned to their respective homes full of joy and respect, sympathy,
satisfaction, and disgust.

[Illustration]


CHAPTER XIII.

OF WHAT BECAME OF THE PARENTS OF THE FORTY-NINE CHILDREN.

BUT when the two old Parrots,
     and the two old Storks,
     and the two old Geese,
     and the two old Owls,
     and the two old Guinea Pigs,
     and the two old Cats,
     and the two old Fishes,

became aware, by reading in the newspapers, of the calamitous extinction of
the whole of their families, they refused all further sustenance; and,
sending out to various shops, they purchased great quantities of Cayenne
pepper and brandy and vinegar and blue sealing-wax, besides seven immense
glass bottles with air-tight stoppers. And, having done this, they ate a
light supper of brown-bread and Jerusalem artichokes, and took an
affecting and formal leave of the whole of their acquaintance, which was
very numerous and distinguished and select and responsible and ridiculous.


CHAPTER XIV.

CONCLUSION.

And after this they filled the bottles with the ingredients for pickling,
and each couple jumped into a separate bottle; by which effort, of course,
they all died immediately, and became thoroughly pickled in a few minutes;
having previously made their wills (by the assistance of the most eminent
lawyers of the district), in which they left strict orders that the
stoppers of the seven bottles should be carefully sealed up with the blue
sealing-wax they had purchased; and that they themselves, in the bottles,
should be presented to the principal museum of the city of Tosh, to be
labelled with parchment or any other anti-congenial succedaneum, and to be
placed on a marble table with silver-gilt legs, for the daily inspection
and contemplation, and for the perpetual benefit, of the pusillanimous
public.

And if you ever happen to go to Gramble-Blamble, and visit that museum in
the city of Tosh, look for them on the ninety-eighth table in the four
hundred and twenty-seventh room of the right-hand corridor of the left wing
of the central quadrangle of that magnificent building; for, if you do not,
you certainly will not see them.

[Illustration]

       *        *        *        *        *




                 NONSENSE COOKERY.

Extract from "The Nonsense Gazette," for August, 1870.

"Our readers will be interested in the following communications from our
valued and learned contributor, Prof. Bosh, whose labors in the fields of
culinary and botanical science are so well known to all the world. The
first three articles richly merit to be added to the domestic cookery of
every family: those which follow claim the attention of all botanists; and
we are happy to be able, through Dr. Bosh's kindness, to present our
readers with illustrations of his discoveries. All the new flowers are
found in the Valley of Verrikwier, near the Lake of Oddgrow, and on the
summit of the Hill Orfeltugg."



THREE RECEIPTS FOR DOMESTIC COOKERY.


TO MAKE AN AMBLONGUS PIE.

Take 4 pounds (say 4-1/2 pounds) of fresh Amblongusses, and put them in a
small pipkin.

Cover them with water, and boil them for 8 hours incessantly; after which
add 2 pints of new milk, and proceed to boil for 4 hours more.

When you have ascertained that the Amblongusses are quite soft, take them
out, and place them in a wide pan, taking care to shake them well
previously.

Grate some nutmeg over the surface, and cover them carefully with powdered
gingerbread, curry-powder, and a sufficient quantity of Cayenne pepper.

Remove the pan into the next room, and place it on the floor. Bring it back
again, and let it simmer for three-quarters of an hour. Shake the pan
violently till all the Amblongusses have become of a pale purple color.

Then, having prepared the paste, insert the whole carefully; adding at the
same time a small pigeon, 2 slices of beef, 4 cauliflowers, and any number
of oysters.

Watch patiently till the crust begins to rise, and add a pinch of salt from
time to time.

Serve up in a clean dish, and throw the whole out of window as fast as
possible.


TO MAKE CRUMBOBBLIOUS CUTLETS.

Procure some strips of beef, and, having cut them into the smallest
possible slices, proceed to cut them still smaller,--eight, or perhaps
nine times.

When the whole is thus minced, brush it up hastily with a new
clothes-brush, and stir round rapidly and capriciously with a salt-spoon
or a soup-ladle.

Place the whole in a saucepan, and remove it to a sunny place,--say the
roof of the house, if free from sparrows or other birds,--and leave it
there for about a week.

At the end of that time add a little lavender, some oil of almonds, and a
few herring-bones; and then cover the whole with 4 gallons of clarified
Crumbobblious sauce, when it will be ready for use.

Cut it into the shape of ordinary cutlets, and serve up in a clean
table-cloth or dinner-napkin.


TO MAKE GOSKY PATTIES.

Take a pig three or four years of age, and tie him by the off hind-leg to a
post. Place 5 pounds of currants, 3 of sugar, 2 pecks of peas, 18 roast
chestnuts, a candle, and 6 bushels of turnips, within his reach: if he eats
these, constantly provide him with more.

Then procure some cream, some slices of Cheshire cheese, 4 quires of
foolscap paper, and a packet of black pins. Work the whole into a paste,
and spread it out to dry on a sheet of clean brown waterproof linen.

When the paste is perfectly dry, but not before, proceed to beat the pig
violently with the handle of a large broom. If he squeals, beat him again.

Visit the paste and beat the pig alternately for some days, and ascertain
if, at the end of that period, the whole is about to turn into Gosky
Patties.

If it does not then, it never will; and in that case the pig may be let
loose, and the whole process may be considered as finished.

       *        *        *        *        *




NONSENSE BOTANY.


[Illustration: Baccopipia Gracilis.]

[Illustration: Bottlephorkia Spoonifolia.]

[Illustration: Cockatooca Superba.]

[Illustration: Fishia Marina.]

[Illustration: Guittara Pensilis.]

[Illustration: Manypeeplia Upsidownia.]

[Illustration: Phattfacia Stupenda.]

[Illustration: Piggiwiggia Pyramidalis.]

[Illustration: Plumbunnia Nutritiosa.]

[Illustration: Pollybirdia Singularis.]

       *        *        *        *        *




NONSENSE ALPHABETS.


            A

     [Illustration]

    A was an ant
    Who seldom stood still,
    And who made a nice house
    In the side of a hill.

            a!
     Nice little ant!


            B

     [Illustration]

    B was a book
    With a binding of blue,
    And pictures and stories
    For me and for you.

            b!
     Nice little book!


            C

     [Illustration]

    C was a cat
    Who ran after a rat;
    But his courage did fail
    When she seized on his tail.

            c!
      Crafty old cat!


            D

     [Illustration]

    D was a duck
    With spots on his back,
    Who lived in the water,
    And always said "Quack!"

            d!
      Dear little duck!


            E

     [Illustration]

    E was an elephant,
    Stately and wise:
    He had tusks and a trunk,
    And two queer little eyes.

            e!
    Oh, what funny small eyes!


            F

     [Illustration]


    F was a fish
    Who was caught in a net;
    But he got out again,
    And is quite alive yet.

            f!
      Lively young fish!


            G

     [Illustration]

    G was a goat
    Who was spotted with brown:
    When he did not lie still
    He walked up and down.

            g!
      Good little goat!


            H

     [Illustration]

    H was a hat
    Which was all on one side;
    Its crown was too high,
    And its brim was too wide.

            h!
      Oh, what a hat!


            I

     [Illustration]

    I was some ice
    So white and so nice,
    But which nobody tasted;
    And so it was wasted.

            i!
    All that good ice!


            J

     [Illustration]


    J was a jackdaw
    Who hopped up and down
    In the principal street
    Of a neighboring town.

            j!
     All through the town!


            K

     [Illustration]

    K was a kite
    Which flew out of sight,
    Above houses so high,
    Quite into the sky.

            k
       Fly away, kite!


            L

     [Illustration]

    L was a light
    Which burned all the night,
    And lighted the gloom
    Of a very dark room.

            l!
     Useful nice light!


            M

     [Illustration]

    M was a mill
    Which stood on a hill,
    And turned round and round
    With a loud hummy sound.

            m!
      Useful old mill!


            N

     [Illustration]

    N was a net
    Which was thrown in the sea
    To catch fish for dinner
    For you and for me.

            n!
      Nice little net!


            O

     [Illustration]

    O was an orange
    So yellow and round:
    When it fell off the tree,
    It fell down to the ground.

            o!
    Down to the ground!


            P

     [Illustration]

    P was a pig,
    Who was not very big;
    But his tail was too curly,
    And that made him surly.

            p!
    Cross little pig!


            Q

     [Illustration]

    Q was a quail
    With a very short tail;
    And he fed upon corn
    In the evening and morn.

            q!
    Quaint little quail!


            R

     [Illustration]

    R was a rabbit,
    Who had a bad habit
    Of eating the flowers
    In gardens and bowers.

            r!
     Naughty fat rabbit!


            S

     [Illustration]

    S was the sugar-tongs,
    Nippity-nee,
    To take up the sugar
    To put in our tea.

            s!
       Nippity-nee!


            T

     [Illustration]

    T was a tortoise,
    All yellow and black:
    He walked slowly away,
    And he never came back.

            t!
    Torty never came back!


            U

     [Illustration]

    U was an urn
    All polished and bright,
    And full of hot water
    At noon and at night.

            u!
     Useful old urn!


            V

     [Illustration]

    V was a villa
    Which stood on a hill,
    By the side of a river,
    And close to a mill.

            v!
    Nice little villa!


            W

     [Illustration]

    W was a whale
    With a very long tail,
    Whose movements were frantic
    Across the Atlantic.

            w!
   Monstrous old whale!


            X

     [Illustration]

    X was King Xerxes,
    Who, more than all Turks, is
    Renowned for his fashion
    Of fury and passion.

            x!
    Angry old Xerxes!


            Y

     [Illustration]

    Y was a yew,
    Which flourished and grew
    By a quiet abode
    Near the side of a road.

            y!
     Dark little yew!


            Z

     [Illustration]

    Z was some zinc,
    So shiny and bright,
    Which caused you to wink
    In the sun's merry light.

            z!
       Beautiful zinc!




            A

     [Illustration]

            a

    A was once an apple-pie,
        Pidy,
        Widy,
        Tidy,
        Pidy,
      Nice insidy,
      Apple-pie!


            B

     [Illustration]

            b

    B was once a little bear,
        Beary,
        Wary,
        Hairy,
        Beary,
      Taky cary,
      Little bear!


            C

     [Illustration]

            c

    C was once a little cake,
        Caky,
        Baky,
        Maky,
        Caky,
      Taky caky,
      Little cake!


            D

     [Illustration]

            d

    D was once a little doll,
        Dolly,
        Molly,
        Polly,
        Nolly,
      Nursy dolly,
      Little doll!


            E

     [Illustration]

            e

    E was once a little eel,
        Eely,
        Weely,
        Peely,
        Eely,
      Twirly, tweely,
        Little eel!



            F

     [Illustration]

            f

    F was once a little fish,
        Fishy,
        Wishy,
        Squishy,
        Fishy,
      In a dishy,
      Little fish!


            G

     [Illustration]

            g

    G was once a little goose,
        Goosy,
        Moosy,
        Boosey,
        Goosey,
      Waddly-woosy,
      Little goose!


            H

     [Illustration]

            h

    H was once a little hen,
        Henny,
        Chenny,
        Tenny,
        Henny.
      Eggsy-any,
      Little hen?


            I

     [Illustration]

            i

    I was once a bottle of ink
        Inky,
        Dinky,
        Thinky,
        Inky,
      Blacky minky,
      Bottle of ink!


            J

     [Illustration]

            j

    J was once a jar of jam,
        Jammy,
        Mammy,
        Clammy,
        Jammy,
      Sweety, swammy,
        Jar of jam!


            K

     [Illustration]

            k

    K was once a little kite,
        Kity,
        Whity,
        Flighty,
        Kity,
      Out of sighty,
        Little kite!


            L

     [Illustration]

            l

    L was once a little lark,
        Larky,
        Marky,
        Harky,
        Larky,
      In the parky,
      Little lark!


            M

     [Illustration]

            m

    M was once a little mouse,
        Mousy,
        Bousy,
        Sousy,
        Mousy,
      In the housy,
      Little mouse!


            N

     [Illustration]

            n

    N was once a little needle,
        Needly,
        Tweedly,
        Threedly,
        Needly,
      Wisky, wheedly,
      Little needle!


            O

     [Illustration]

            o

    O was once a little owl,
        Owly,
        Prowly,
        Howly,
        Owly,
      Browny fowly,
      Little owl!


            P

     [Illustration]

            p

    P was once a little pump,
        Pumpy,
        Slumpy,
        Flumpy,
        Pumpy,
      Dumpy, thumpy,
        Little pump!


            Q

     [Illustration]

            q

    Q was once a little quail,
        Quaily,
        Faily,
        Daily,
        Quaily,
      Stumpy-taily,
      Little quail!


            R

     [Illustration]

            r

    R was once a little rose,
        Rosy,
        Posy,
        Nosy,
        Rosy,
     Blows-y, grows-y,
       Little rose!


            S

     [Illustration]

            s

    S was once a little shrimp,
        Shrimpy,
        Nimpy,
        Flimpy,
        Shrimpy.
     Jumpy, jimpy,
      Little shrimp!


            T

     [Illustration]

            t

    T was once a little thrush,
        Thrushy,
        Hushy,
        Bushy,
        Thrushy,
      Flitty, flushy,
      Little thrush!


            U

     [Illustration]

            u

    U was once a little urn,
           Urny,
           Burny,
           Turny,
           Urny,
      Bubbly, burny,
        Little urn!


            V

     [Illustration]

            v

    V was once a little vine,
        Viny,
        Winy,
        Twiny,
        Viny,
      Twisty-twiny,
      Little vine!


            W

     [Illustration]

            w

    W was once a whale,
        Whaly,
        Scaly,
        Shaly,
        Whaly,
      Tumbly-taily,
      Mighty whale!


            X

     [Illustration]

            x

    X was once a great king Xerxes,
          Xerxy,
          Perxy,
          Turxy,
          Xerxy,
        Linxy, lurxy,
      Great King Xerxes!


            Y

     [Illustration]

            y

    Y was once a little yew,
        Yewdy,
        Fewdy,
        Crudy,
        Yewdy,
    Growdy, grewdy,
      Little yew!


            Z

     [Illustration]

            z

    Z was once a piece of zinc,
        Tinky,
        Winky,
        Blinky,
        Tinky,
      Tinkly minky,
      Piece of zinc!




            A

     [Illustration]

    A was an ape,
    Who stole some white tape,
    And tied up his toes
    In four beautiful bows.

            a!

    Funny old ape!


            B

     [Illustration]

    B was a bat,
    Who slept all the day,
    And fluttered about
    When the sun went away.

            b!

    Brown little bat!


            C

     [Illustration]

    C was a camel:
    You rode on his hump;
    And if you fell off,
    You came down such a bump!


            c!

    What a high camel!


            D

     [Illustration]

    D was a dove,
    Who lived in a wood,
    With such pretty soft wings,
    And so gentle and good!

            d!

    Dear little dove!


            E

     [Illustration]

    E was an eagle,
    Who sat on the rocks,
    And looked down on the fields
    And the-far-away flocks.

            e!

    Beautiful eagle!


            F

     [Illustration]

    F was a fan
    Made of beautiful stuff;
    And when it was used,
    It went puffy-puff-puff!

            f!

    Nice little fan!


            G

     [Illustration]

    G was a gooseberry,
    Perfectly red;
    To be made into jam,
    And eaten with bread.

            g!

    Gooseberry red!


            H

     [Illustration]

    H was a heron,
    Who stood in a stream:
    The length of his neck
    And his legs was extreme.

            h!

    Long-legged heron!


            I

     [Illustration]

    I was an inkstand,
    Which stood on a table,
    With a nice pen to write with
    When we are able.

            i!

    Neat little inkstand!


            J

     [Illustration]

    J was a jug,
    So pretty and white,
    With fresh water in it
    At morning and night.

            j!

    Nice little jug!


            K

     [Illustration]

    K was a kingfisher:
    Quickly he flew,
    So bright and so pretty!--
    Green, purple, and blue.

            k!

    Kingfisher blue!

            L

     [Illustration]

    L was a lily,
    So white and so sweet!
    To see it and smell it
    Was quite a nice treat.

            l!

    Beautiful lily!


            M

     [Illustration]

    M was a man,
    Who walked round and round;
    And he wore a long coat
    That came down to the ground.

            m!

    Funny old man!


            N

     [Illustration]

    N was a nut
    So smooth and so brown!
    And when it was ripe,
    It fell tumble-dum-down.

            n!

    Nice little nut!


            O

     [Illustration]

    O was an oyster,
    Who lived in his shell:
    If you let him alone,
    He felt perfectly well.

            o!

    Open-mouthed oyster!


            P

     [Illustration]

    P was a polly,
    All red, blue, and green,--
    The most beautiful polly
    That ever was seen.

            p!

    Poor little polly!


            Q

     [Illustration]

    Q was a quill
    Made into a pen;
    But I do not know where,
    And I cannot say when.

            q!

    Nice little quill!


            R

     [Illustration]

    R was a rattlesnake,
    Rolled up so tight,
    Those who saw him ran quickly,
    For fear he should bite.

            r!

    Rattlesnake bite!


            S

     [Illustration]

    S was a screw
    To screw down a box;
    And then it was fastened
    Without any locks.

            s!

    Valuable screw!


            T

     [Illustration]

    T was a thimble,
    Of silver so bright!
    When placed on the finger,
    It fitted so tight!

            t!

    Nice little thimble!


            U

     [Illustration]

    U was an upper-coat,
    Woolly and warm,
    To wear over all
    In the snow or the storm.

            u!

    What a nice upper-coat!


            V

     [Illustration]

    V was a veil
    With a border upon it,
    And a ribbon to tie it
    All round a pink bonnet.

            v!

    Pretty green veil!


            W

     [Illustration]

    W was a watch,
    Where, in letters of gold,
    The hour of the day
    You might always behold.

            w!

    Beautiful watch!


            X

     [Illustration]

    X was King Xerxes,
    Who wore on his head
    A mighty large turban,
    Green, yellow, and red.

            x!

    Look at King Xerxes!


            Y

     [Illustration]

    Y was a yak,
    From the land of Thibet:
    Except his white tail,
    He was all black as jet.

            y!

    Look at the yak!


            Z

     [Illustration]

    Z was a zebra,
    All striped white and black;
    And if he were tame,
    You might ride on his back.

            z!

    Pretty striped zebra!

LAUGHABLE LYRICS

A Fourth Book of Nonsense Poems, Songs, Botany, Music, etc.

by

EDWARD LEAR

Author of the _Book of Nonsense_, _More Nonsense_,
_Nonsense Songs, Stories_, etc., etc.

With all the Original Illustrations







[Illustration]




CONTENTS

    LAUGHABLE LYRICS
        THE DONG WITH A LUMINOUS NOSE
        THE TWO OLD BACHELORS
        THE PELICAN CHORUS
        THE YONGHY-BONGHY-B
        THE POBBLE WHO HAS NO TOES
        THE NEW VESTMENTS
        MR. AND MRS. DISCOBBOLOS
        THE QUANGLE WANGLE'S HAT
        THE CUMMERBUND
        THE AKOND OF SWAT

    NONSENSE BOTANY

      " ALPHABET, No. 5
      "    "      No. 6





LAUGHABLE LYRICS.


THE DONG WITH A LUMINOUS NOSE.

[Illustration]

    When awful darkness and silence reign
    Over the great Gromboolian plain,
        Through the long, long wintry nights;
    When the angry breakers roar
    As they beat on the rocky shore;
        When Storm-clouds brood on the towering heights
    Of the Hills of the Chankly Bore,--

    Then, through the vast and gloomy dark
    There moves what seems a fiery spark,--
        A lonely spark with silvery rays
        Piercing the coal-black night,--
        A Meteor strange and bright:
    Hither and thither the vision strays,
        A single lurid light.

    Slowly it wanders, pauses, creeps,--
    Anon it sparkles, flashes, and leaps;
    And ever as onward it gleaming goes
    A light on the Bong-tree stems it throws.
    And those who watch at that midnight hour
    From Hall or Terrace or lofty Tower,
    Cry, as the wild light passes along,--
       "The Dong! the Dong!
      The wandering Dong through the forest goes!
        The Dong! the Dong!
      The Dong with a luminous Nose!"

        Long years ago
      The Dong was happy and gay,
    Till he fell in love with a Jumbly Girl
      Who came to those shores one day.
    For the Jumblies came in a sieve, they did,--
    Landing at eve near the Zemmery Fidd
        Where the Oblong Oysters grow,
      And the rocks are smooth and gray.
    And all the woods and the valleys rang
    With the Chorus they daily and nightly sang,--
        "_Far and few, far and few,
          Are the lands where the Jumblies live;
          Their heads are green, and their hands are blue,
          And they went to sea in a sieve._"

    Happily, happily passed those days!
      While the cheerful Jumblies staid;
        They danced in circlets all night long,
        To the plaintive pipe of the lively Dong,
      In moonlight, shine, or shade.
    For day and night he was always there
    By the side of the Jumbly Girl so fair,
    With her sky-blue hands and her sea-green hair;
    Till the morning came of that hateful day
    When the Jumblies sailed in their sieve away,
    And the Dong was left on the cruel shore
    Gazing, gazing for evermore,--
    Ever keeping his weary eyes on
    That pea-green sail on the far horizon,--
    Singing the Jumbly Chorus still
    As he sate all day on the grassy hill,--
        "_Far and few, far and few,
          Are the lands where the Jumblies live;
          Their heads are green, and their hands are blue,
          And they went to sea in a sieve_."

    But when the sun was low in the West,
        The Dong arose and said,--
    "What little sense I once possessed
        Has quite gone out of my head!"
    And since that day he wanders still
    By lake and forest, marsh and hill,
    Singing, "O somewhere, in valley or plain,
    Might I find my Jumbly Girl again!
    For ever I'll seek by lake and shore
    Till I find my Jumbly Girl once more!"

        Playing a pipe with silvery squeaks,
        Since then his Jumbly Girl he seeks;
        And because by night he could not see,
        He gathered the bark of the Twangum Tree
          On the flowery plain that grows.
          And he wove him a wondrous Nose,--
        A Nose as strange as a Nose could be!

    Of vast proportions and painted red,
    And tied with cords to the back of his head.
        In a hollow rounded space it ended
        With a luminous Lamp within suspended,
            All fenced about
            With a bandage stout
            To prevent the wind from blowing it out;
        And with holes all round to send the light
        In gleaming rays on the dismal night

    And now each night, and all night long,
    Over those plains still roams the Dong;
    And above the wail of the Chimp and Snipe
    You may hear the squeak of his plaintive pipe,
    While ever he seeks, but seeks in vain,
    To meet with his Jumbly Girl again;
    Lonely and wild, all night he goes,--
    The Dong with a luminous Nose!
    And all who watch at the midnight hour,
    From Hall or Terrace or lofty Tower,
    Cry, as they trace the Meteor bright,
    Moving along through the dreary night,--
       "This is the hour when forth he goes,
        The Dong with a luminous Nose!
        Yonder, over the plain he goes,--
            He goes!
            He goes,--
        The Dong with a luminous Nose!"




THE TWO OLD BACHELORS.

[Illustration]

Two old Bachelors were living in one house;
One caught a Muffin, the other caught a Mouse.
Said he who caught the Muffin to him who caught the Mouse,--
"This happens just in time! For we've nothing in the house,
Save a tiny slice of lemon and a teaspoonful of honey,
And what to do for dinner--since we haven't any money?
And what can we expect if we haven't any dinner,
But to lose our teeth and eyelashes and keep on growing thinner?"

Said he who caught the Mouse to him who caught the Muffin,--
"We might cook this little Mouse, if we only had some Stuffin'!
If we had but Sage and Onion we could do extremely well;
But how to get that Stuffin' it is difficult to tell!"

Those two old Bachelors ran quickly to the town
And asked for Sage and Onion as they wandered up and down;
They borrowed two large Onions, but no Sage was to be found
In the Shops, or in the Market, or in all the Gardens round.

But some one said, "A hill there is, a little to the north,
And to its purpledicular top a narrow way leads forth;
And there among the rugged rocks abides an ancient Sage,--
An earnest Man, who reads all day a most perplexing page.
Climb up, and seize him by the toes,--all studious as he sits,--
And pull him down, and chop him into endless little bits!
Then mix him with your Onion (cut up likewise into Scraps),--
When your Stuffin' will be ready, and very good--perhaps."

Those two old Bachelors without loss of time
The nearly purpledicular crags at once began to climb;
And at the top, among the rocks, all seated in a nook,
They saw that Sage a-reading of a most enormous book.

"You earnest Sage!" aloud they cried, "your book you've read enough in!
We wish to chop you into bits to mix you into Stuffin'!"

But that old Sage looked calmly up, and with his awful book,
At those two Bachelors' bald heads a certain aim he took;
And over Crag and precipice they rolled promiscuous down,--
At once they rolled, and never stopped in lane or field or town;
And when they reached their house, they found (besides their want
                                                          of Stuffin'),
The Mouse had fled--and, previously, had eaten up the Muffin.

They left their home in silence by the once convivial door;
And from that hour those Bachelors were never heard of more.


[Illustration: Sheet Music--The Pelicans]

[Illustration]

THE PELICAN CHORUS.

    King and Queen of the Pelicans we;
     No other Birds so grand we see!
    None but we have feet like fins!
    With lovely leathery throats and chins!
        Ploffskin, Pluffskin, Pelican jee!
        We think no Birds so happy as we!
        Plumpskin, Ploshkin, Pelican Jill!
        We think so then, and we thought so still

    We live on the Nile. The Nile we love.
    By night we sleep on the cliffs above;
    By day we fish, and at eve we stand
    On long bare islands of yellow sand.
    And when the sun sinks slowly down,
    And the great rock walls grow dark and brown,

    Where the purple river rolls fast and dim
    And the Ivory Ibis starlike skim,
    Wing to wing we dance around,
    Stamping our feet with a flumpy sound,
    Opening our mouths as Pelicans ought;
    And this is the song we nightly snort,--
        Ploffskin, Pluffskin, Pelican jee!
        We think no Birds so happy as we!
        Plumpskin, Ploshkin, Pelican jill!
        We think so then, and we thought so still!

    Last year came out our Daughter Dell,
    And all the Birds received her well.
    To do her honor a feast we made
    For every bird that can swim or wade,--
    Herons and Gulls, and Cormorants black,
    Cranes, and Flamingoes with scarlet back,
    Plovers and Storks, and Geese in clouds,
    Swans and Dilberry Ducks in crowds:
    Thousands of Birds in wondrous flight!
    They ate and drank and danced all night,
    And echoing back from the rocks you heard
    Multitude-echoes from Bird and Bird,--
        Ploffskin, Pluffskin, Pelican jee!
        We think no Birds so happy as we!
        Plumpskin, Ploshkin, Pelican jill!
        We think so then, and we thought so still!

    Yes, they came; and among the rest
    The King of the Cranes all grandly dressed.
    Such a lovely tail! Its feathers float
    Between the ends of his blue dress-coat;
    With pea-green trowsers all so neat,
    And a delicate frill to hide his feet
    (For though no one speaks of it, every one knows
    He has got no webs between his toes).

    As soon as he saw our Daughter Dell,
    In violent love that Crane King fell,--
    On seeing her waddling form so fair,
    With a wreath of shrimps in her short white hair.
    And before the end of the next long day
    Our Dell had given her heart away;
    For the King of the Cranes had won that heart
    With a Crocodile's egg and a large fish-tart.
    She vowed to marry the King of the Cranes,
    Leaving the Nile for stranger plains;
    And away they flew in a gathering crowd
    Of endless birds in a lengthening cloud.
        Ploffskin, Pluffskin, Pelican jee!
        We think no Birds so happy as we!
        Plumpskin, Ploshkin, Pelican jill!
        We think so then, and we thought so still!

    And far away in the twilight sky
    We heard them singing a lessening cry,--
    Farther and farther, till out of sight,
    And we stood alone in the silent night!
    Often since, in the nights of June,
    We sit on the sand and watch the moon,--

    She has gone to the great Gromboolian Plain,
    And we probably never shall meet again!
    Oft, in the long still nights of June,
    We sit on the rocks and watch the moon,--
    She dwells by the streams of the Chankly Bore.
    And we probably never shall see her more.
        Ploffskin, Pluffskin, Pelican jee!
        We think no Birds so happy as we!
        Plumpskin, Ploshkin, Pelican jill!
        We think so then, and we thought so still!


[Illustration: Sheet Music--The Yonghy Bonghy B]

THE COURTSHIP OF THE YONGHY-BONGHY-B.

[Illustration]

                    I.

    On the Coast of Coromandel
        Where the early pumpkins blow,
          In the middle of the woods
      Lived the Yonghy-Bonghy-B.
    Two old chairs, and half a candle,
    One old jug without a handle,--
          These were all his worldly goods:
          In the middle of the woods,
          These were all the worldly goods
      Of the Yonghy-Bonghy-B,
      Of the Yonghy-Bonghy B.


                    II.

    Once, among the Bong-trees walking
        Where the early pumpkins blow,
          To a little heap of stones
      Came the Yonghy-Bonghy-B.
    There he heard a Lady talking,
    To some milk-white Hens of Dorking,--
        "'Tis the Lady Jingly Jones!
          On that little heap of stones
          Sits the Lady Jingly Jones!"
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-B,
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-B.


                    III.

   "Lady Jingly! Lady Jingly!
         Sitting where the pumpkins blow,
           Will you come and be my wife?"
       Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-B.
   "I am tired of living singly--
    On this coast so wild and shingly,--
          I'm a-weary of my life;
          If you'll come and be my wife,
          Quite serene would be my life!"
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-B,
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-B.


                    IV.

    "On this Coast of Coromandel
         Shrimps and watercresses grow,
           Prawns are plentiful and cheap,"
       Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-B.
   "You shall have my chairs and candle,
    And my jug without a handle!
          Gaze upon the rolling deep
         (Fish is plentiful and cheap);
          As the sea, my love is deep!"
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-B,
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-B.


                    V.

    Lady Jingly answered sadly,
         And her tears began to flow,--
          "Your proposal comes too late,
       Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-B!
    I would be your wife most gladly!"
    (Here she twirled her fingers madly,)
         "But in England I've a mate!
          Yes! you've asked me far too late,
          For in England I've a mate,
      Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-B!
      Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-B!


                    VI.

   "Mr. Jones (his name is Handel,--
         Handel Jones, Esquire, & Co.)
           Dorking fowls delights to send,
       Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-B!
    Keep, oh, keep your chairs and candle,
    And your jug without a handle,--
          I can merely be your friend!
          Should my Jones more Dorkings send,
          I will give you three, my friend!
      Mr. Yonghy-Bongy-B!
      Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-B!


                    VII.

   "Though you've such a tiny body,
         And your head so large doth grow,--
           Though your hat may blow away,
       Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-B!
    Though you're such a Hoddy Doddy,
    Yet I wish that I could modi-
          fy the words I needs must say!
          Will you please to go away?
          That is all I have to say,
      Mr. Yongby-Bonghy-B!
      Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-B!"


                    VIII.

    Down the slippery slopes of Myrtle,
        Where the early pumpkins blow,
          To the calm and silent sea
       Fled the Yonghy-Bonghy-B.
    There, beyond the Bay of Gurtle,
    Lay a large and lively Turtle.
         "You're the Cove," he said, "for me;
          On your back beyond the sea,
          Turtle, you shall carry me!"
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-B,
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-B.

              [Illustration]


                    IX.

    Through the silent-roaring ocean
        Did the Turtle swiftly go;
          Holding fast upon his shell
      Rode the Yonghy-Bonghy-B.
    With a sad primaeval motion
    Towards the sunset isles of Boshen
          Still the Turtle bore him well.
          Holding fast upon his shell,
         "Lady Jingly Jones, farewell!"
      Sang the Yonghy-Bonghy-B,
      Sang the Yonghy-Bonghy-B.


                    X.

    From the Coast of Coromandel
        Did that Lady never go;
          On that heap of stones she mourns
      For the Yonghy-Bonghy-B.
    On that Coast of Coromandel,
    In his jug without a handle
        Still she weeps, and daily moans;
        On that little heap of stones
        To her Dorking Hens she moans,
          For the Yonghy-Bonghy-B,
          For the Yonghy-Bonghy-B.




THE POBBLE WHO HAS NO TOES.

[Illustration]

                    I.

    The Pobble who has no toes
        Had once as many as we;
    When they said, "Some day you may lose them all;"
        He replied, "Fish fiddle de-dee!"
    And his Aunt Jobiska made him drink
    Lavender water tinged with pink;
    For she said, "The World in general knows
    There's nothing so good for a Pobble's toes!"


                    II.

    The Pobble who has no toes,
        Swam across the Bristol Channel;
    But before he set out he wrapped his nose
        In a piece of scarlet flannel.
    For his Aunt Jobiska said, "No harm
    Can come to his toes if his nose is warm;
    And it's perfectly known that a Pobble's toes
    Are safe--provided he minds his nose."


                    III.

    The Pobble swam fast and well,
        And when boats or ships came near him,
    He tinkledy-binkledy-winkled a bell
        So that all the world could hear him.
    And all the Sailors and Admirals cried,
    When they saw him nearing the further side,--
   "He has gone to fish, for his Aunt Jobiska's
    Runcible Cat with crimson whiskers!"


                    IV.

    But before he touched the shore,--
        The shore of the Bristol Channel,
    A sea-green Porpoise carried away
        His wrapper of scarlet flannel.
    And when he came to observe his feet,
    Formerly garnished with toes so neat,
    His face at once became forlorn
    On perceiving that all his toes were gone!


                    V.

    And nobody ever knew,
        From that dark day to the present,
    Whoso had taken the Pobble's toes,
        In a manner so far from pleasant.
    Whether the shrimps or crawfish gray,
    Or crafty Mermaids stole them away,
    Nobody knew; and nobody knows
    How the Pobble was robbed of his twice five toes!


                    VI.

    The Pobble who has no toes
        Was placed in a friendly Bark,
    And they rowed him back, and carried him up
        To his Aunt Jobiska's Park.
    And she made him a feast, at his earnest wish,
    Of eggs and buttercups fried with fish;
    And she said, "It's a fact the whole world knows,
    That Pobbles are happier without their toes."




THE NEW VESTMENTS.

    There lived an old man in the Kingdom of Tess,
    Who invented a purely original dress;
    And when it was perfectly made and complete,
    He opened the door and walked into the street.

    By way of a hat he'd a loaf of Brown Bread,
    In the middle of which he inserted his head;
    His Shirt was made up of no end of dead Mice,
    The warmth of whose skins was quite fluffy and nice;
    His Drawers were of Rabbit-skins, so were his Shoes;
    His Stockings were skins, but it is not known whose;
    His Waistcoat and Trowsers were made of Pork Chops;
    His Buttons were Jujubes and Chocolate Drops;
    His Coat was all Pancakes, with Jam for a border,
    And a girdle of Biscuits to keep it in order;
    And he wore over all, as a screen from bad weather,
    A Cloak of green Cabbage-leaves stitched all together.

    He had walked a short way, when he heard a great noise,
    Of all sorts of Beasticles, Birdlings, and Boys;
    And from every long street and dark lane in the town
    Beasts, Birdies, and Boys in a tumult rushed down.
    Two Cows and a Calf ate his Cabbage-leaf Cloak;
    Four Apes seized his Girdle, which vanished like smoke;
    Three Kids ate up half of his Pancaky Coat,
    And the tails were devour'd by an ancient He Goat;
    An army of Dogs in a twinkling tore _up_ his
    Pork Waistcoat and Trowsers to give to their Puppies;
    And while they were growling, and mumbling the Chops,
    Ten Boys prigged the Jujubes and Chocolate Drops.
    He tried to run back to his house, but in vain,
    For scores of fat Pigs came again and again:
    They rushed out of stables and hovels and doors;
    They tore off his stockings, his shoes, and his drawers;
    And now from the housetops with screechings descend
    Striped, spotted, white, black, and gray Cats without end:
    They jumped on his shoulders and knocked off his hat,
    When Crows, Ducks, and Hens made a mincemeat of that;
    They speedily flew at his sleeves in a trice,
    And utterly tore up his Shirt of dead Mice;
    They swallowed the last of his Shirt with a squall,--
    Whereon he ran home with no clothes on at all.

    And he said to himself, as he bolted the door,
   "I will not wear a similar dress any more,
    Any more, any more, any more, never more!"




MR. AND MRS. DISCOBBOLOS.

                    I.

    Mr. and Mrs. Discobbolos
        Climbed to the top of a wall.
      And they sate to watch the sunset sky,
      And to hear the Nupiter Piffkin cry,
        And the Biscuit Buffalo call.
    They took up a roll and some Camomile tea,
    And both were as happy as happy could be,
            Till Mrs. Discobbolos said,--
           "Oh! W! X! Y! Z!
            It has just come into my head,
      Suppose we should happen to fall!!!!!
                        Darling Mr. Discobbolos!


                    II.

   "Suppose we should fall down flumpetty,
        Just like pieces of stone,
      On to the thorns, or into the moat,
      What would become of your new green coat?
        And might you not break a bone?
    It never occurred to me before,
    That perhaps we shall never go down any more!"
            And Mrs. Discobbolos said,
           "Oh! W! X! Y! Z!
            What put it into your head
      To climb up this wall, my own
                        Darling Mr. Discobbolos?"


                    III.

    Mr. Discobbolos answered,
       "At first it gave me pain,
      And I felt my ears turn perfectly pink
      When your exclamation made me think
        We might never get down again!
    But now I believe it is wiser far
    To remain for ever just where we are."
            And Mr. Discobbolos said,
           "Oh! W! X! Y! Z!
            It has just come into my head
      We shall never go down again,
                        Dearest Mrs. Discobbolos!"


                    IV.

    So Mr. and Mrs. Discobbolos
        Stood up and began to sing,--
     "Far away from hurry and strife
      Here we will pass the rest of life,
        Ding a dong, ding dong, ding!
    We want no knives nor forks nor chairs,
    No tables nor carpets nor household cares;
            From worry of life we've fled;
            Oh! W! X! Y! Z!
            There is no more trouble ahead,
      Sorrow or any such thing,
                        For Mr. and Mrs. Discobbolos!"




THE QUANGLE WANGLE'S HAT.

[Illustration]

                    I.

    On the top of the Crumpetty Tree
        The Quangle Wangle sat,
    But his face you could not see,
        On account of his Beaver Hat.
    For his Hat was a hundred and two feet wide,
    With ribbons and bibbons on every side,
    And bells, and buttons, and loops, and lace,
    So that nobody ever could see the face
            Of the Quangle Wangle Quee.


                    II.

    The Quangle Wangle said
        To himself on the Crumpetty Tree,
    "Jam, and jelly, and bread
        Are the best of food for me!
    But the longer I live on this Crumpetty Tree
    The plainer than ever it seems to me
    That very few people come this way
    And that life on the whole is far from gay!"
            Said the Quangle Wangle Quee.


                    III.

    But there came to the Crumpetty Tree
        Mr. and Mrs. Canary;
    And they said, "Did ever you see
        Any spot so charmingly airy?
    May we build a nest on your lovely Hat?
    Mr. Quangle Wangle, grant us that!
    O please let us come and build a nest
    Of whatever material suits you best,
            Mr. Quangle Wangle Quee!"


                    IV.

    And besides, to the Crumpetty Tree
        Came the Stork, the Duck, and the Owl;
    The Snail and the Bumble-Bee,
        The Frog and the Fimble Fowl
    (The Fimble Fowl, with a Corkscrew leg);
    And all of them said, "We humbly beg
    We may build our homes on your lovely Hat,--
    Mr. Quangle Wangle, grant us that!
       Mr. Quangle Wangle Quee!"


                    V.

    And the Golden Grouse came there,
        And the Pobble who has no toes,
    And the small Olympian bear,
        And the Dong with a luminous nose.
    And the Blue Baboon who played the flute,
    And the Orient Calf from the Land of Tute,
    And the Attery Squash, and the Bisky Bat,--
    All came and built on the lovely Hat
      Of the Quangle Wangle Quee.

                    VI.

    And the Quangle Wangle said
        To himself on the Crumpetty Tree,
    "When all these creatures move
        What a wonderful noise there'll be!"
    And at night by the light of the Mulberry moon
    They danced to the Flute of the Blue Baboon,
    On the broad green leaves of the Crumpetty Tree,
    And all were as happy as happy could be,
      With the Quangle Wangle Quee.




THE CUMMERBUND.
An Indian Poem.

                    I.

She sate upon her Dobie,
    To watch the Evening Star,
And all the Punkahs, as they passed,
    Cried, "My! how fair you are!"
Around her bower, with quivering leaves,
    The tall Kamsamahs grew,
And Kitmutgars in wild festoons
    Hung down from Tchokis blue.


                    II.

Below her home the river rolled
    With soft meloobious sound,
Where golden-finned Chuprassies swam,
    In myriads circling round.
Above, on tallest trees remote
    Green Ayahs perched alone,
And all night long the Mussak moan'd
    Its melancholy tone.


                    III.

And where the purple Nullahs threw
    Their branches far and wide,
And silvery Goreewallahs flew
    In silence, side by side,
The little Bheesties' twittering cry
    Rose on the flagrant air,
And oft the angry Jampan howled
    Deep in his hateful lair.


                    IV.

She sate upon her Dobie,
    She heard the Nimmak hum,
When all at once a cry arose,
    "The Cummerbund is come!"
In vain she fled: with open jaws
    The angry monster followed,
And so (before assistance came)
    That Lady Fair was swollowed.


                    V.

They sought in vain for even a bone
    Respectfully to bury;
They said, "Hers was a dreadful fate!"
    (And Echo answered, "Very.")
They nailed her Dobie to the wall,
    Where last her form was seen,
And underneath they wrote these words,
    In yellow, blue, and green:
"Beware, ye Fair! Ye Fair, beware!
    Nor sit out late at night,
Lest horrid Cummerbunds should come,
    And swollow you outright."


NOTE.--First published in _Times of India_, Bombay, July, 1874.




THE AKOND OF SWAT.


    Who, or why, or which, or _what_, Is the Akond of SWAT?
    Is he tall or short, or dark or fair?
    Does he sit on a stool or a sofa or chair,             or SQUAT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Is he wise or foolish, young or old?
    Does he drink his soup and his coffee cold,             or HOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he sing or whistle, jabber or talk,
    And when riding abroad does he gallop or walk,          or TROT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he wear a turban, a fez, or a hat?
    Does he sleep on a mattress, a bed, or a mat,          or a COT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    When he writes a copy in round-hand size,
    Does he cross his T's and finish his I's              with a DOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Can he write a letter concisely clear
    Without a speck or a smudge or smear                    or BLOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Do his people like him extremely well?
    Or do they, whenever they can, rebel,                   or PLOT,
                                                    At the Akond of Swat?

    If he catches them then, either old or young,
    Does he have them chopped in pieces or hung,            or _shot_,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Do his people prig in the lanes or park?
    Or even at times, when days are dark,                   GAROTTE?
                                                     O the Akond of Swat!

    Does he study the wants of his own dominion?
    Or doesn't he care for public opinion                    a JOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    To amuse his mind do his people show him
    Pictures, or any one's last new poem,                    or WHAT,
                                                   For the Akond of Swat?

    At night if he suddenly screams and wakes,
    Do they bring him only a few small cakes,               or a LOT,
                                                   For the Akond of Swat?

    Does he live on turnips, tea, or tripe?
    Does he like his shawl to be marked with a stripe,      or a DOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he like to lie on his back in a boat
    Like the lady who lived in that isle remote,            SHALLOTT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Is he quiet, or always making a fuss?
    Is his steward a Swiss or a Swede or a Russ,           or a SCOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he like to sit by the calm blue wave?
    Or to sleep and snore in a dark green cave,            or a GROTT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he drink small beer from a silver jug?
    Or a bowl? or a glass? or a cup? or a mug?              or a POT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he beat his wife with a gold-topped pipe,
    When she lets the gooseberries grow too ripe,            or ROT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he wear a white tie when he dines with friends,
    And tie it neat in a bow with ends,                    or a KNOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he like new cream, and hate mince-pies?
    When he looks at the sun does he wink his eyes,          or NOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he teach his subjects to roast and bake?
    Does he sail about on an inland lake,                  in a YACHT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Some one, or nobody, knows I wot
    Who or which or why or what
                                                    Is the Akond of Swat!


NOTE.--For the existence of this potentate see Indian newspapers, _passim_.
The proper way to read the verses is to make an immense emphasis on the
monosyllabic rhymes, which indeed ought to be shouted out by a chorus.

       *        *        *        *        *




NONSENSE BOTANY.


[Illustration: Armchairia Comfortabilis.]

[Illustration: Bassia Palealensis.]

[Illustration: Bubblia Blowpipia.]

[Illustration: Bluebottlia Buzztilentia.]

[Illustration: Crabbia Horrida.]

[Illustration: Smalltoothcombia Domestica.]

[Illustration: Knutmigrata Simplice.]

[Illustration: Tureenia Ladlecum.]

[Illustration: Puffia Leatherbellowsa.]

[Illustration: Queeriflora Babyides.]

       *        *        *        *        *




NONSENSE ALPHABETS.


                     A

               [Illustration]

    A was an Area Arch
        Where washerwomen sat;
    They made a lot of lovely starch
        To starch Papa's Cravat.


                     B

               [Illustration]

    B was a Bottle blue,
        Which was not very small;
    Papa he filled it full of beer,
        And then he drank it all.


                     C

               [Illustration]

    C was Papa's gray Cat,
        Who caught a squeaky Mouse;
    She pulled him by his twirly tail
        All about the house.


                     D

               [Illustration]

    D was Papa's white Duck,
        Who had a curly tail;
    One day it ate a great fat frog,
        Besides a leetle snail.


                     E

               [Illustration]

    E was a little Egg,
        Upon the breakfast table;
    Papa came in and ate it up
        As fast as he was able.


                     F

               [Illustration]

    F was a little Fish.
        Cook in the river took it
    Papa said, "Cook! Cook! bring a dish!
        And, Cook! be quick and cook it!"


                     G

               [Illustration]

    G was Papa's new Gun;
        He put it in a box;
    And then he went and bought a bun,
        And walked about the Docks.


                     H

               [Illustration]

    H was Papa's new Hat;
        He wore it on his head;
    Outside it was completely black,
        But inside it was red.


                     I

               [Illustration]

    I was an Inkstand new,
        Papa he likes to use it;
    He keeps it in his pocket now,
        For fear that he should lose it.


                     J

               [Illustration]

    J was some Apple Jam,
        Of which Papa ate part;
    But all the rest he took away
        And stuffed into a tart.


                     K

               [Illustration]

    K was a great new Kite;
        Papa he saw it fly
    Above a thousand chimney pots,
        And all about the sky.


                     L

               [Illustration]

    L was a fine new Lamp;
        But when the wick was lit,
    Papa he said, "This Light ain't good!
        I cannot read a bit!"


                     M

               [Illustration]

    M was a dish of mince;
        It looked so good to eat!
    Papa, he quickly ate it up,
        And said, "This is a treat!"


                     N

               [Illustration]

    N was a Nut that grew
        High up upon a tree;
    Papa, who could not reach it, said,
        "That's _much_ too high for me!"


                     O

               [Illustration]

    O was an Owl who flew
        All in the dark away,
    Papa said, "What an owl you are!
        Why don't you fly by day?"

                     P

               [Illustration]

    P was a little Pig,
        Went out to take a walk;
    Papa he said, "If Piggy dead,
        He'd all turn into Pork!"


                     Q

               [Illustration]

    Q was a Quince that hung
        Upon a garden tree;
    Papa he brought it with him home,
        And ate it with his tea.


                     R

               [Illustration]

    R was a Railway Rug
        Extremely large and warm;
    Papa he wrapped it round his head,
        In a most dreadful storm.


                     S

               [Illustration]

    S was Papa's new Stick,
        Papa's new thumping Stick,
    To thump extremely wicked boys,
        Because it was so thick.


                     T

               [Illustration]

    T was a tumbler full
        Of Punch all hot and good;
    Papa he drank it up, when in
        The middle of a wood.


                     U

               [Illustration]

    U was a silver urn,
        Full of hot scalding water;
    Papa said, "If that Urn were mine,
        I'd give it to my daughter!"


                     V

               [Illustration]

    V was a Villain; once
        He stole a piece of beef.
    Papa he said, "Oh, dreadful man!
        That Villain is a Thief!"


                     W

               [Illustration]

    W was a Watch of Gold:
        It told the time of day,
    So that Papa knew when to come,
        And when to go away.


                     X

               [Illustration]

    X was King Xerxes, whom
        Papa much wished to know;
    But this he could not do, because
        Xerxes died long ago.


                     Y

               [Illustration]

    Y was a Youth, who kicked
        And screamed and cried like mad;
    Papa he said, "Your conduct is
        Abominably bad!"


                     Z

               [Illustration]

    Z was a Zebra striped
        And streaked with lines of black;
    Papa said once, he thought he'd like
        A ride upon his back.




ALPHABET, No. 6.

    A tumbled down, and hurt his Arm, against a bit of wood,

    B said. "My Boy, oh, do not cry; it cannot do you good!"

    C said, "A Cup of Coffee hot can't do you any harm."

    D said, "A Doctor should be fetched, and he would cure the arm."

    E said, "An Egg beat up with milk would quickly make him well."

    F said, "A Fish, if broiled, might cure, if only by the smell."

    G said, "Green Gooseberry fool, the best of cures I hold."

    H said, "His Hat should be kept on, to keep him from the cold."

    I said, "Some Ice upon his head will make him better soon."

    J said, "Some Jam, if spread on bread, or given in a spoon!"

    K said, "A Kangaroo is here,--this picture let him see."

    L said, "A Lamp pray keep alight, to make some barley tea."

    M said, "A Mulberry or two might give him satisfaction."

    N said, "Some Nuts, if rolled about, might be a slight attraction."

    O said, "An Owl might make him laugh, if only it would wink."

    P said, "Some Poetry might be read aloud, to make him think."

    Q said, "A Quince I recommend,--a Quince, or else a Quail."

    R said, "Some Rats might make him move, if fastened by their tail."

    S said, "A Song should now be sung, in hopes to make him laugh!"

    T said, "A Turnip might avail, if sliced or cut in half!"

    U said, "An Urn, with water hot, place underneath his chin!"

    V said, "I'll stand upon a chair, and play a Violin!"

    W said, "Some Whisky-Whizzgigs fetch, some marbles and a ball!"

    X said, "Some double XX ale would be the best of all!"

    Y said, "Some Yeast mixed up with salt would make a perfect plaster!"

    Z said, "Here is a box of Zinc! Get in, my little master!
             We'll shut you up! We'll nail you down! We will, my little
                 master!
             We think we've all heard quite enough of this your sad
                 disaster!"





PREFACE.


"THE BIRD AND INSECTS' POST-OFFICE" was projected and written by ROBERT
BLOOMFIELD, author of the "Farmer's Boy," &c., excepting Letters VIII.,
X., XI., and XVI. by his eldest son, Charles. It was the author's
intention to publish it uniformly with his other juvenile work, the
"HISTORY OF LITTLE DAVY'S NEW HAT," but he did not live to do so, and it
was therefore included in his literary _Remains_, published in 1824--a
year after the poet's death--in two volumes, price twelve shillings. Its
circulation, in consequence, has been extremely limited, its form of
publication preventing its introduction to children; for this reason,
and because I think it would be a pity for it to be shut up for ever in
a dusty old volume from the little ones, for whom it was written, I
have sent it forth in the form originally intended for it to assume.

The original manuscript, in the author's autograph, I recently presented
to the Trustees of the British Museum.

WALTER BLOOMFIELD.

_March 1st, 1879._




CONTENTS.



LETTER                                                              PAGE

   I.--FROM THE MAGPIE TO THE SPARROW                                 19

  II.--THE SPARROW'S REPLY                                            22

 III.--FROM A YOUNG GARDEN-SPIDER TO HER MOTHER                       29

  IV.--FROM A YOUNG NIGHTINGALE TO A WREN                             33

   V.--FROM AN EARWIG, DEPLORING THE LOSS OF ALL HER CHILDREN         39

  VI.--FROM THE WILD DUCK TO THE TAME DUCK                            42

 VII.--THE TAME DUCK'S REPLY                                          47

VIII.--FROM THE GANDER TO THE TURKEY-COCK. _By Charles Bloomfield_    53

  IX.--FROM THE DUNGHILL-COCK TO THE CHAFFINCH                        58

   X.--FROM THE BLUE-BOTTLE FLY TO THE GRASSHOPPER
      _By Charles Bloomfield_                                         63

  XI.--FROM THE GLOW-WORM TO THE BUMBLE-BEE. _By Charles Bloomfield_  66

 XII.--FROM THE PIGEON TO THE PARTRIDGE                               71

XIII.--FROM THE WOOD-PIGEON TO THE OWL                                78

 XIV.--THE OWL IN REPLY TO THE WOOD-PIGEON                            85

  XV.--FROM A SWALLOW IN THE SOUTH OF FRANCE TO AN ENGLISH ROBIN      88

 XVI.--ON HEARING THE CUCKOO AT MIDNIGHT, MAY 1ST. 1822.
       _By Charles Bloomfield_                                        95




LIST OF FULL-PAGE ILLUSTRATIONS.


                                                  PAGE
THE BIRD AND INSECTS' POST-OFFICE       _Frontispiece._

MAGPIE                                              18

SPARROWS                                            23

SPIDERS                                             28

NIGHTINGALE                                         32

WRENS                                               35

WILD DUCKS                                          43

SPARROWS                                            49

GOOSE                                               55

COCK                                                59

PARTRIDGES                                      70, 74

PIGEONS                                         72, 76

OWLS                                            79, 83

SWALLOWS                                        89, 92

          AND SEVERAL SMALLER ONES IN THE TEXT.




AUTHOR'S PREFACE.


We all know that ?sop has made his birds and beasts talk, and reason
too; and that so well as still to make the volume bearing his name a
favourite with thousands. Perhaps, too, we all know that same French
author has objected to this method of teaching, alleging that children
should not be imposed upon (or something to that effect), and led to
believe in the _reality_ of talking birds and beasts. To me it appears
plainly that they do not, nor are they inclined to, believe in any such
reality. Observe two or three children at play with a favourite kitten.
When one of them, in mere wantonness, shall give the little animal a rap
on the nose, or a squeeze by the tail, the owner of the cat will
instantly exclaim, "Poor little pussy! she does not like that, _she
says_." Now, the child knows very well that the cat did not say a word
about the matter, but she looked and acted as if she had, and that was
enough.

In the following pages I have endeavoured to make my winged and creeping
correspondents talk in their own characters, according to their
well-known habits and pursuits.

I have added a few notes, sometimes of illustration, and sometimes of
inquiry; for, as natural history is almost a boundless field, I may
stand in need of correction myself. It will be obvious that I have taken
only some of the plainest and simplest subjects, for the purpose of
trying whether any interest can be awakened in young minds by such
means. And as I like to write for children, and think a great deal of
information might be blended with amusement in this way, I hold myself
acquitted of the charge of trifling and puerility, and am the young
reader's friend and well-wisher,

R[OBERT] B[LOOMFIELD.]







LETTER I.

_FROM THE MAGPIE TO THE SPARROW._


LITTLE JABBERER,

I have many times thought of addressing to you a few words of advice, as
you seem to stand in need of such a friend.

You know that I do not stand much upon ceremony; I am always ready for
talking and for giving advice, and really wonder how other birds can
keep themselves so quiet. Then you will pardon my frankness, since you
know my character, when I inform you that I think you remarkably tame
and spiritless: you have no enterprise in you. In an old farmyard,
shuffling amongst the straw, there you may be found morning, noon and
night; and you are never seen in the woods and groves with me and my
companions, where we have the blessing of free liberty, and fly where we
please. You must often have heard me sing; that cannot be doubted,
because I am heard a great way. As to me, I never come down to your
farm, unless I think I can find a hen's egg or two amongst the nettles,
or a chicken or duck just hatched.

I earnestly advise you to change your manner of life and take a little
free air, as I do. Stop no longer in your dull yard, feeding upon pigs'
leavings, but come abroad with me. But I must have done till a better
opportunity; for the gamekeeper with his gun has just turned the
corner. Take my advice, and you may be as well off, and learn to sing as
well as I do.

Yours, in great haste,

MAG.


[Illustration]




LETTER II.

_THE SPARROW'S REPLY._


OLD MAG (I won't say Neighbour),

I was hopping along the top ridge of the house when I received your
insolent and conceited epistle, which does you no credit, but is very
much in your usual style. "Little Jabberer" indeed! and pray, what is
your letter of advice? Nothing but jabber from beginning to end. You
_sing_, you say. I have heard you often enough; but if yours is singing,
then I must be allowed to be no judge of the matter. You say you are
afraid of the gamekeeper; this, perhaps, allows some sense in you, for
he is paid for killing all kinds of vermin.

[Illustration: SPARROWS.]

And so you come down to our farm when you think you can steal something!
Thus, if I did not hide my eggs and my young ones, in a hole too small
for you to enter, I can see pretty plainly how I should come off with
your thieving and your advice.

Be advised in _your_ turn; keep away from our yard, for my master has a
gun too; and your chattering, which I suppose you call singing, he
abominably hates. You will be in danger of catching what the gamekeeper
threatens, and then where is the great difference between your station
and mine?

From my lodging under the thatch of the stable, I am, as you may happen
to behave yourself,

Yours, at a convenient distance,

&c. &c.

[Illustration: SPIDERS.]




LETTER III.

_FROM A YOUNG GARDEN-SPIDER TO HER MOTHER._


DEAR MOTHER,

I cannot exactly tell what happened before I came out of the shell; but,
from circumstances, I can give you some information. When I came to
life, amongst some scores of other little merry yellow creatures, I
found myself, and all of us, enclosed in a thing, through which we, with
our eight eyes, could see very well, but could not instantly get out. I
soon perceived that we, in the egg state, wrapped in a white bag, as you
left us, had been put into a thing called a bottle, by one of those
great creatures whom we always call _striders_; but this was a
particular one of that tribe, who wanted to play tricks with us--one
whom they would perhaps call a philosopher.[1] Well, his own sense (if
he had any) told him that we could not live without air; so he left the
cork out, and went about his business; no doubt of much less consequence
than the lives of all us prisoners--but that they do not mind. But how
long were we prisoners? Why, as soon as ever we were out of the shell we
began to spin, and linked our webs so thick together that the
philosopher's bottle would hold us no longer. We climbed out in a crowd,
and spread our webs over the room, up to the very ceiling. I shall never
forget how the great booby stared when he saw us all climbing up our own
rope-ladders! I wonder if those great creatures are not sometimes caught
in webs spun by their fellow-creatures, and whether they are not
sometimes put by hundreds into a bottle without possessing any means of
escape? But I am but a child, and must live and learn before I talk more
freely. Long life to you, dear mother, and plenty of flies.

Yours ever, &c.

[Illustration: NIGHTINGALE.]




LETTER IV.

_FROM A YOUNG NIGHTINGALE TO A WREN._


Dated "Home Wood."

NEIGHBOUR,

When we last met you seemed very lively and agreeable, but you asked an
abundance of questions, and particularly wanted to know whether we
nightingales really do, as is said of us, cross the great water every
year, and return in the spring to sing in your English groves. Now, as I
am but young, I must be modest, and not prate about what I cannot as yet
understand. I must say, nevertheless, that I never heard my parents talk
of any particular long journey which they had performed to reach this
country, or that they should return, and take me and the rest of the
family with them, at this particular time or season. I know this, that I
never saw my parents fly further at one flight than from one side of a
field to another or from one grove to the next. Who are they who call
us "birds of passage"?[2] They certainly may know more of the extent of
the GREAT WATERS than we can, neighbour Wren; but have they considered
our powers, and the probability of what they assert? I am sure, if my
parents should call on me to go with them, I shall be flurried out of my
life. But it is my business to obey. I have so lately got my feathers,
that I cannot be a proper judge of the matter. As to the swallows and
many other birds going to a vast distance, there is no wonder in that,
if you look at their wings; but how would you, for instance, perform
such a journey--you who, even when you sing, put yourself into a violent
passion, as if you had not a minute to live? We nightingales are the
birds for song. This you will acknowledge, I dare say, though I have not
begun yet. I will give you a specimen when I come back (if I am really
to go), and you will hear me in "_Home Wood_" when it is dark, and you
have crept into your little nest in the hovel.

[Illustration: WRENS.]

Believe me, I have a great respect for you, and am your young friend,

THIRD-IN-THE-NEST.

[Illustration]




LETTER V.

_FROM AN EARWIG, DEPLORING THE LOSS OF ALL HER CHILDREN._


DEAR AUNT,

You cannot think how distressed I have been, and still am; for, under
the bark of a large elm, which, I dare say, has stood there a great
while, I had placed my whole family, where they were dry, comfortable,
and, as I foolishly thought, secure. But only mark what calamities may
fall upon earwigs before they are aware of them! I had just got my
family about me, all white, clean, and promising children, when pounce
came down that bird they call a woodpecker; when, thrusting his huge
beak under the bark where we lay, down went our whole sheltering roof!
and my children, poor things, running, as they thought, from danger,
were devoured as fast as the destroyer could open his beak and shut it.
For my own part, I crept into a crack in the solid tree, where I have
thus far escaped; but as this bird can make large holes into solid
timber, I am by no means safe.

This calamity is the more heavy, as it carries with it a great
disappointment; for very near our habitation was a high wall, the sunny
side of which was covered with the most delicious fruits--peaches,
apricots, nectarines, &c.--all just then ripening; and I thought of
having such a feast with my children as I had never enjoyed in my life.

I am surrounded by woodpeckers, jackdaws, magpies, and other devouring
creatures, and think myself very unfortunate. Yet, perhaps, if I could
know the situation of some larger creatures--I mean particularly such as
would tread me to death if I crossed their path--they may have
complaints to make as well as I.

Take care of yourself, my good old aunt, and I shall keep in my
hiding-place as long as starvation will permit, And, after all, perhaps
the fruit was not so delicious as it looked--I am resolved to think so,
just to comfort myself.

Yours, with compliments, as usual.

[Illustration]




LETTER VI.

_FROM THE WILD DUCK TO THE TAME DUCK._


Dated Lincoln and Ely Fens.

DEAR COUSIN,

I suppose I must call you so, though I declare I know not how we are
related. But, though I am thought so very wild and shy, I have still a
kind of fellow-feeling for you; and, if you have not gone to the spit
before this comes to you, I should be glad of your reply in a friendly
way. You know very well that you are intended to be eaten, and so are
we--when they can catch us. I understand that you never fly and that you
seldom waddle above a meadow's length from your pond, where you keep
puddling and groping from daylight till dark. This, I assure you, is not
the life that I lead. We fly together in vast numbers in the night, for
many miles over this flat, wet country; so, as to water, we have an
inexhaustible store: we may swim ourselves tired. But, I dare say, every
station of our duck-lives is subject to some disadvantages and some
calamities. Thus, with all our wildness, we are not secure; for we are
taken sometimes by hundreds in a kind of trap which is called a
decoy.

[Illustration: WILD DUCKS.]

Some of our tribe have been made tame like you (but I hope you are not
so false-hearted), and then their masters feed them plentifully, in a
place contrived on purpose, with a narrow entrance, with which these
_traitor ducks_ are well acquainted, so that they can pass in and out at
a place we strangers should never have thought of. They are sent out in
the dusk of the evening, when they soon join with large companies of us
strangers; and knowing, as they do, their way home, and that they shall
find food, they set off, close at each other's tails, along a ditch, or
watercourse, and we fools follow them.

The entrance, as far as I could see of it, is very narrow; for I have
been twice within a hair's breadth of being caught, and do not pretend
to know all about it; but I wish heartily that every duck and drake in
the country--ay, and every one of our allies, the geese, too, could say
as much--could say that "they had twice been on the verge of destruction
by keeping bad company, but had escaped."

What becomes of my companions, when taken, I think I have heard pretty
accurately; for there is somewhere a very large assemblage of
fellow-creatures to those who catch us, and whose demand seems never to
be satisfied. Well, never mind, cousin; I am determined to fly, and swim
too, as long as I can, and I advise you to do the same, and make the
most of your day.

Hoping to hear from you, I am, affectionately, your wild cousin.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




LETTER VII.

_THE TAME DUCK'S REPLY._


COUSIN WILDING,

I confess I did not at all expect to hear from you; for I always
believed you to be one of those thoughtless young creatures which are
to be found in other stations of life as well as in yours and mine, who,
as soon as they get fledged and able to get abroad, care no more for
their parents and those who brought them up than I care for a shower of
rain. However, you have escaped danger _twice_, and you have reason to
congratulate yourself. I have been sitting here upon ten eggs for three
weeks past, and of course have another week to be confined; but then the
thoughts of the pleasure I shall have in hatching and guiding my young
ones to the water, is ample payment for all my pains. They will look so
clean and so delighted, and will do as they are bid by the smallest
quack that I can utter, that I must be a bad mother indeed if I am not
proud of them. Perhaps you will wonder when I tell you that we have a
creature here--fledged indeed--which is called a hen; a strange,
cackling, flying, useless, noisy, silly creature, which is as much
afraid of water as you are of your decoy. I have often known one of
these birds to hatch nine or ten of my eggs; and then, if you wanted to
ridicule the lifted foot of conceit, and the dignity of assumed
importance, you should see her lead her young, or more properly, see the
young lead her to the nearest water they can find. In they go, and she
begins to call and scold, and run round the edge to save them from
drowning! Now, what fools these hens must be compared to us ducks! at
least, I, for one, am determined to think so. I have seen this same hen
with the brood about her scratching in our farmyard with all her might;
when, not considering who was behind her, or who under her feathers, she
has tricked away one little yellow duck with one of her claws, and
another with the other, till I wished I had her in a pond; I would have
given her a good sousing, depend upon it. But really, cousin, don't you
think that this way of contradicting our natures and propensities is
very wrong? Suppose, for instance, I should sit upon a dozen of that
silly creature's eggs which I mentioned above--for I will never consent
to have them matched with us--I should then, to be sure, have a week's
holiday, as they sit but three weeks; but what should I bring to light?
a parcel of little, useless, tip-toed, cowardly things, that would not
follow me into the pond--I cannot bear to think of it. I have written
you a long letter, and can think of no more but Quack! quack! quack! and
farewell.

[Illustration: SPARROWS.]

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




LETTER VIII.

_FROM THE GANDER TO THE TURKEY-COCK._

    (CHARLES BLOOMFIELD.)


    Old friend, you certainly have merit;
    You really are a bird of spirit.
    I'm quite surprised, I must confess;
    I did not think you did possess
    Such valour as you've lately shown--
    In fact, 'tis nearly like my own.
    You know I've always been renown'd
    For bravery, since first I found
    That I could hiss; and feel I'm bolder
    Each year that I am growing older.

[Illustration]

[Illustration: GOOSE.]

    You must, I'm sure, have often seen,
    When in the pond, or on the green,
    With all my family about me
    (I can't think how they'd do without me),
    Some human thing come striding by,
    And how, without a scruple, I
    March after him, and bite his heel;
    And then, you know, the pride I feel
    To hear, as back I march again,
    The feat extoll'd by all my train.
    But if I were to tell you all
    The valiant actions, great and small,
    That ever were achieved by me,
    I never should have done, I see;
    For cows, and pigs, and horses know
    The consequence of such a foe.
    However, I am glad to find
    That you have such a noble mind,
    And think, my friend, that by and by
    You'll rise to be as great as I.

Your old friend,

HISS.

[Illustration]




LETTER IX.

_FROM THE DUNGHILL-COCK TO THE CHAFFINCH._


I have often, during the spring and summer, heard you of a morning
piping away in the hedges, sometimes as soon as I was up myself, and
thought your singing pretty fair, and that you conducted yourself as you
ought to do. But this I cannot say lately; for it is quite overstepping
the bounds of decency and good manners when you and your brother
pilferers, now the winter is come, make it your daily practice to come
by scores, as you do, into our yard, and, without any ceremony, eat
up all the barley you can lay your beaks to. I suppose when the
spring comes again, and you find more to satisfy you outside a farmyard
than within, you will be off to the hedges again. I shall let you alone,
unless the barley runs short, which is to support my wives and
children; when if you still venture to continue your pilferings, you
must not be surprised should some of you feel the weight of my
displeasure.

[Illustration: COCK.]

[Illustration]

I must go after my family, who are all out of my sight, since I have
been writing this.

Yours in haste, and a friend if possible,

CHANTICLEER.




LETTER X.

_FROM THE BLUE-BOTTLE FLY TO THE GRASSHOPPER._

(CHARLES BLOOMFIELD.)


[Illustration]

I.

      As I roamed t'other day,
      Neighbour Hop, in my way
    I discovered a nice rotten plum,
      Which you know is a treat;
      And, to taste of the sweet,
    A swarm of relations had come.


II.

      So we all settled round,
      As it lay on the ground,
    And were feasting ourselves with delight;
       But, for want of more thought
       To have watched, as we ought,
    We were suddenly seized--and held tight.

    III.

       In a human clenched hand,
       Where, unable to stand,
    We were twisted and tumbled about;
       But, perceiving a chink,
       You will readily think
    I exerted myself--I got out.

    IV.

       How the rest got away
       I really can't say;
    But I flew with such ardour and glee.
       That again, unawares,
       I got into the snares
    Of my foe Mr. Spider, you see;

    V.

       Who so fiercely came out
       Of his hole, that no doubt
    He expected that I was secure:
       But he found 'twould not do,
       For I forced my way through,
    Overjoyed on escaping, you're sure.

[Illustration]

    VI.

       But I'll now take my leave,
       For the clouds I perceive
    Are darkening over the sky;
       The sun has gone in,
       And I really begin
    To feel it grow colder.--Good bye!

I'm, as ever, yours,

BLUE-BOTTLE FLY.

[Illustration]




LETTER XI.

_FROM THE GLOW-WORM TO THE HUMBLE-BEE._

(CHARLES BLOOMFIELD.)


    Excuse, Mr. Bee, this epistle, to one
    Whose time, from the earliest gleam of the sun
    Till he sinks in the west, is so busily spent,
    That I fear I intrude;--but I write with intent
    To save your whole city from pillage and ruin,
    And to warn you in time of a plot that is brewing.
    Last night, when, as usual, enjoying the hour
    When the gloaming had spread, and a trickling shower
    Was beading the grass as it silently fell,
    And day with reluctance was bidding farewell;
    When down by yon hedge, nearly opposite you,
    And your City of Honey, as proudly I threw
    The rays from my lamp in a magical round;
    I listened, alarmed upon hearing the sound
    Of human intruders approaching more near;
    But I presently found _I_ had nothing to fear,
    For the hedge was between us, and I and my gleam
    Lay hid from their view: when the following scheme
    I heard, as they sheltered beneath the old tree,
    And send you each creature's own words, Mr. Bee:--
    "See, Jack, there it is; now suppose you and I,
    With a spade and some brimstone, should each of us try
    Some night, when we're sure all the bees are at rest,
    To smother them all, and then dig out the nest."
    "I know we can do it," said Jack with delight;
    "I can't come to-morrow; but s'pose the next night
    We both set about it, if you are inclined;
    And then we will halve all the honey we find?"
    "Agreed," said the other, "but let us be gone."
    And they left me in thought until early this morn;
    When I certainly meant, if your worship had stay'd
    But a minute or two, till my speech I had made,
    To have saved you the reading, as well as the cost
    Of a letter by post--but my words were all lost;
    For though they were lavished each time you came near,
    Or was close overhead, and I thought you _should_ hear,
    Yet the buzz of importance, as onward you flew,
    Bobbing into each flower the whole meadow through,
    So baffled your brains that I let you alone,
    For I found that I might as well speak to a drone:
    Yet, rather than quietly leave you to fate
    (Such a villainous thought never entered my pate),
    I send you this letter, composed by the light
    Of my silvery lamp in the dead of the night,
    And about the same time, and the very same place,
    That a few nights ago, when the moon hid her face,
    I beheld, nearly hid in the grass as I lay,
    And my lamp in full splendour reflecting its ray
    In the eye of each dewdrop, the fairies unseen
    To all human vision, trip here with their Queen,
    To pay me a visit, to dance and to feast;
    And their revels continued, till full in the east
    The sun tinged the clouds for another bright day,
    When each took the warning and bounded away:
    'Tis the same at this moment. Farewell, Mr. Hum,
    I've extinguished my lamp, for the morning is come.

SPANGLE.

[Illustration: PARTRIDGES.]




LETTER XII.

_FROM THE PIGEON TO THE PARTRIDGE._


What a long time it is since I received your kind letter about the
ripening corn, and the dangers you were presently to be subject to with
all your children!

[Illustration: PIGEONS.]

You will think me very idle, or very unfeeling, if I delay answering you
any longer; I will therefore tell you some of my own troubles, to
convince you that I have had causes of delay, which you can have no
notion of until I explain them. You must know, then, that we are subject
to more than the random gun-shot in the field, for we are sometimes
taken out of our house a hundred at a time, and put into a large
basket to be placed in a meadow or spare plat of ground suiting the
purpose, there to be murdered at leisure. This they call "shooting from
the trap,"[3] and is done in this way:

We being imprisoned, as I have said, as thick as we can stand in the
basket, a man is placed by us to take us out _singly_, and carry us to a
small box, at the distance of fifty or sixty yards; this box has a lid,
to which is attached a string, by means of which, he, the man (if he is
a man) can draw up the lid and let us fly at a signal given. Every
sensible pigeon of course flies for his life, for, ranged on each side,
stand from two to four or six men with guns, who fire as the bird gets
upon the wing; and the cleverest fellows are those who can kill
most;--and this they call _sport_!

[Illustration: PARTRIDGES.]

I have sad cause to know how this sport is conducted, for I have been in
the trap myself. Only one man, or perhaps a boy, fired at me as I rose;
but I received two wounds, for one shot passed through my crop, but I
was astonished to find how soon it got well; the other broke my leg just
below the feathers. Oh, what anguish I suffered for two months! at the
end of which time it withered and dropped off. So now, instead of
running about amongst my red-legged brethren, as a pigeon ought, I am
obliged to hop like a sparrow. But only consider what glory this
stripling must have acquired, to have actually fired a gun and broke a
pigeon's leg! Well, we both know, neighbour Partridge, what the Hawk is;
he stands for no law, nor no season, but eats us when he is hungry. He
is a perfect gentleman compared to these "Lords of the Creation," as I
am told they call themselves; and I declare to you upon the honour of a
pigeon, that I had much rather be torn to pieces by the Hawk than be
shut up in a box at a convenient distance to be shot at by a dastard.
You partridges are protected during great part of the year by severe
laws, but whether such laws are wise, merciful, or just, I cannot
determine, but I know that they are strictly kept and enforced by those
who make them. Take care of yourself, for the harvest is almost ripe.

I am, your faithful,

ONE-LEGGED FRIEND AT THE GRANGE.

[Illustration]




LETTER XIII.

_FROM THE WOOD-PIGEON TO THE OWL._


MY GOOD, OLD, WISE, SECLUDED, AND QUIET FRIEND,

I write to you in the fulness of my heart, for I have been grossly
insulted by the Magpie, in a letter received this morning; in which I
am abused for what my forefathers did long before I was born. I know of
nothing more base, or more unjust, than thus raking up old quarrels[4]
and reproaching those who had nothing to do with them. The letter must
have come through your office, but I know you have not the authority to
break open and examine letters passing between those who should be
friends; I therefore do not accuse you; but sometimes the heart is
relieved by stating its troubles even when no redress can be expected. I
know that you cannot bring to punishment that slanderer, that babbler of
the woods, any more than I can; but I wish you would give me a word of
comfort, if it is ever so short.

[Illustration: OWL.]

From the plantation of firs,

Near the forest-side,

WOOD-PIGEON.

[Illustration]




LETTER XIV.

_THE OWL IN REPLY TO THE WOOD-PIGEON._


DISTRESSED NEIGHBOUR,

I am sorry for your trouble, but cheer up your spirits, and though you
are insulted, remember who it is that gives the affront, it is only the
magpie; and depend upon it that in general the best way to deal with
impudent fools is to be silent and take no notice of them. I should have
enough to do if I were to resent all her impertinences. She will come
sometimes round the ivy where I lodge in the old elm, or into the tower
on the top of the hill; and there she will pimp and pry into my private
concerns, and mob me, and call me "Old Wigsby" and "Doctor Winkum," and
such kind of names, and all for nothing. I assure you it is well for her
that she is not a mouse, or she should not long escape my talons; but
who ever heard of such a thing as eating a magpie? I live chiefly on
mice (when I am at liberty to catch them), but I have my complaints to
make as well as you, for you know I hold a high situation in the
Post-office, and I suppose you know, likewise, that the letters are
brought in so very late that it often takes me half the night to sort
them, and night is the very time when I ought to get my own food! At
this rate of going on, and if the cats are industrious as usual, there
will not be a mouse left for me, if I do not give up my place.

I have heard that my family are famed for wisdom; but for my part I will
not boast of any such thing: yet I am wise enough to know that other
people in high offices expect either a good salary or perquisites, as a
reward for their labour, or what is easier still, somebody to do all the
work for them. If I hold in my present mind until next quarter, I will
certainly send in my resignation. Thus you see what an important thing
it is to suit the person to the office, or the office to the person on
whom it is conferred; for had the magpie, for instance, been secretary,
every one of the letters would have been peeped into, for a certainty,
for nothing can escape her curiosity. I will try to bear with my
situation a little longer, and believe me to be

Your true friend,

SECRETARY TO THE BOARD OF MANAGERS.

[Illustration]




LETTER XV.

_FROM A SWALLOW IN THE SOUTH OF FRANCE TO AN ENGLISH ROBIN._


DEAR LITTLE BOB,

I remember your peaceful singing on the top of your shed, near my late
dwelling, and I remember also that I promised to write you some
account of my journey. You may recollect that, at the close of your
summer, when flies became scarce, we all assembled on a sunny morning,
on the roof of the highest building in the village, and talked loudly of
the flight we intended to take. At last came the day appointed, and we
mounted up in a vast body and steered southward.

[Illustration: SWALLOWS.]

Being hatched in England, I had thought your valleys and streams
matchless in beauty; and for anything I know to the contrary they
certainly are; but I am now a traveller, and have a traveller's
privilege to say what I like. When we reached the great water I was
astonished at its width, but more still to see many travelling houses
going at a prodigious rate, and sending forth from iron chimneys columns
of black smoke over the face of the water, reaching further than you
ever flew in your life; they have a contrivance on each side which puts
the waves all in commotion, but they are not wings. My mother says that
in old times, when swallows came to England, there were no such things
to be seen. We crossed this water, and a fine sunny country beyond it,
until I was tired, and we now found flies more abundant, though the
oldest amongst us assure me that we must travel further still, over
another wide water, into a country where men's faces are of the same
colour as my feathers, black and tawny; but travellers see strange
things. When I come to England again I will endeavour to find out your
village.[5] I hope, for your sake, you may have a mild winter and good
lodgings. This is all the news worth sending, and I must catch flies for
myself now, you know.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

So farewell,

For I am in haste.

[Illustration]




LETTER XVI.

_ON HEARING THE CUCKOO AT MIDNIGHT, MAY 1st. 1822._

(CHARLES BLOOMFIELD.)


    'Twas the blush of the spring, vegetation was young,
    And the birds with a maddening ecstasy sung
    To welcome a season so lovely and gay--
    But a scene the most sweet was the close of May-day.
    For the air was serene, and the moon was out bright,
    And Philomel boldly exerted her might
    In her swellings and trillings, to rival the sound
    Of the distant defiance of nightingales round.
    While the cuckoo as proudly was heard to prolong,
    Though daylight was over, her own mellow song,
    And appeared to exult; and at intervals, too,
    The owl in the distance joined in with "Too-whoo!"
    Unceasing, unwearied, each, proud of his power,
    Continued the contest from hour to hour;
    The nightingale vaunting--the owl in reply--
    With the cuckoo's response--till the moon from the sky
    Was hastening down to the west, and the dawn
    Was spreading the east; and the owl in the morn
    Sat silently winking his eyes at the sight;
    And the nightingale also had bidden "good-night."
    The cuckoo, left solus, continued with glee,
    His notes of defeat from his favourite tree;
    At length he departed; but still as he flew,
    Was heard his last notes of defiance, "Cuckoo!"

THE END.

_London: R. Clay, Sons, and Taylor, Printers_

       *       *       *       *       *


NOTES:

[1] This part of the letter is very difficult of translation, as the
plain word, in spiders' language, means merely "a deep one."--R. B.

[2] Cowper, that excellent man and poet, and close observer of nature,
writes as follows to his friend, on the 11th of March, 1792:--

     "_TO JOHN JOHNSON, ESQ._

"You talk of primroses that you pulled on Candlemas Day, but what think
you of me, who heard a nightingale on New Year's Day? Perhaps I am the
only man in England who can boast of such good fortune. Good indeed! for
if was at all an omen, it could not be an unfavourable one. The winter,
however, is now making himself amends, and seems the more peevish for
having been encroached on at so undue a season. Nothing less than a
large slice out of the spring will satisfy him."

He adds the following lines on the occasion:--

    "_TO THE NIGHTINGALE, WHICH THE AUTHOR HEARD SING ON
                  NEW YEAR'S DAY, 1792._

    "Whence is it that amazed I hear
      From yonder wither'd spray,
    This foremost morn of all the year,
      The melody of May?

    "And why, since thousands would be proud
      Of such a favour shown,
    Am I selected from the crowd,
      To witness it alone?

    "Sing'st thou, sweet Philomel, to me,
      For that I also long
    Have practised in the groves like thee,
      Though not like thee in song?

    "Or, sing'st thou rather under force
      Of some divine command,
    Commissioned to presage a course
      Of happier days at hand?

    "Thrice welcome then! for many a long
      And joyless year have I,
    As thou to-day, put forth my song
      Beneath a wintry sky.

    "But thee no wintry skies can harm,
      Who only need'st to sing
    To make e'en January charm,
      And every season spring.

                        R.B."


[3] I once witnessed this silly and barbarous sport, and saw at least a
score of maimed and wounded birds upon the barns, and stables, and
outhouses of the village. I was utterly disgusted, and it required a
strong effort of the mind to avoid wishing that one of the gunners at
least had hobbled off the ground with a dangling leg, which might for
one half-year have reminded him of the cowardly practice of "shooting
from the trap."--R. B.

[4] The poor pigeon, I think, must here allude to the old well-known
quarrel between the two families about building their nests. The magpie
once undertook to teach the pigeon how to build a more substantial and
commodious dwelling, and certainly it would have become the learner to
have observed her progress, and not interrupt the teacher; but the
pigeon kept on her usual cry, "Take two, Taffy, take two" (for thus it
is translated in Suffolk), but Mag insisted this was wrong, and that one
stick at a time was quite enough; still the pigeon kept on her cry,
"Take two, take two," until the teacher in a violent passion gave up the
undertaking, exclaiming, "I say that one at a time is plenty, and if you
think otherwise, you may act about the work yourself, for I will have no
more to do with it." Since that time the wood-pigeon has built a
wretched nest, sure enough, so thin that you may frequently see her two
eggs through it, and if not placed near the body of a tree, or on strong
branches, it is often thrown down by the wind, or the eggs rolled out;
yet the young of this bird, before they are half grown, will defend
themselves against any intruder, at which time the parent bird will dash
herself down amongst the standing corn or high grass, and behave as
though her wings were broken, and she was utterly disabled; and this she
does to draw off the enemy from her young; so that this bird is not so
foolish as Mag would make us believe.--R. B.

[5] It is much to be wished that the above letter had contained some
information on a very curious subject, for I would rather believe the
swallow himself than many tales told of them. It has been said that,
instead of flying to southern countries, where they can find food and a
congenial climate, they dive into the waters of a bog, and lie in a
torpid state, through the winter, round the roots of flags and
weeds.--R. B.






