

Instruction derivable from common things 
. Extraordinary numbers and varieties of Insects . 

Can be studied in every situation 
, Anecdotes 

Cabinets useful, but not indispensable . * 

Study of Insects does not narrow the mind 
Injuries and benefits paused by Insects . 

Use of names in Natural History .... 
Study of Insects fascinating to youth 

.Anecdote of a litttle girl 

Beauty of Insects ...... 

. Varieties in the economy of Insects . . 

States of Insects ...... 

Insects produced frpm eggs .... 

Larva , Caterpillar, Grub, Maggot . 

, Pupa, Chrysalis, Aurelia, Nymph . 

Ijnago , perfect Insect. ..... . 

 

Structures for protecting Eggs' ...... 

Eggs of Insects can bear great degrees of heat and cold 
Bees compared to our mechanics .... 

Mason- Wasps 

Curious proceedings of one at Lee .... 

Her caution outwitted by a Fly 

Structures of another Mason-Wasp .... 

Her storing of live Caterpillars 

Mason-Bees 

• Nest of one on the wall of Greenwich Park . 

Clay-mine of Mason-Bees at Lee .... 

• Estimate of their labours 

Wall-Mason-Bees of France 

Proceedings of the two-horned Mason-Bee at Lee . 

Structures of Mason-Bees 

Their restless disposition 

Mining-Bees 

Their different proceedings in Britain and in France 



Carpenter-Bees 

Methods of working . 

History of one at Lee 

Violet Carpenter-Bee of France 






Compared with our joiners . 

Elder and Bramble Carpenter-Bees 

Carpenter- Wasps 

Curious cocoon of 

Upholsterer- Bees ... ... 

Poppy-Flower Bee of Largs and of Bercy 
Taste of the little architects in ornament 
Cotton-Gathering- Bee .... 
Rose-Leaf-Cutter Bee .... 
Her method of working .... 
Anecdote of St. Francis Xavier . 







Carder-Bees 

Method of preparing and conveying their materials 

Structure of their nests 

Lapidary-Bees 

Pertinacity in defending their nest 

Humble-Bees 

Structure of their nests 

Social- Wasps 

Nest founded by a single female 
Compared with the Burrowing-Owl . 

Materials rasped off from wood 
Different opinions of Naturalists 
Paper made by Wasps . . . 

Structure of the nest 

Extraordinary number of cells 

Hornet’s nest 

Tree-Wasps’ nests in Ayrshire . 

Rose-shaped Wasps’ nest .... 

Vertical- Wasps’ nest 

Wasp-paper compared with ours 
Card-making Wasp of Cayenne . . . 



Architecture of the Hive-Bee 

Discoveries from Aristomachus to Maraldi and Huber 

Nurse- Bees and Wax- Workers 

Preparation of wax 

Erroneous account by the Abbe la Pluche . . 

Conjectures of Reaumur 

Discovery of John Hunter 

Experiments of M. Huber 

Singular facts by Mr. Wiston 

Dissections by Madlle Jurine and M. Latreille 

Propolis - 

Opinions of old Naturalists .... 

Discovery by Huber 

Various uses of propolis 

Mr. T. A. Knight’s observations .... 
Basket for carrying on the thighs of Bees . . 

Process of loading 

Building of the cells 

Division of labour 


 


Festooned curtain of Wax-Workers • • 

Commencement of the combs . , . . . 

Huber’s history of his experiments 

Secretion of wax 

Foundation of the first cell .... 
Workers extract their own wax . . . 

View of the proceedings obstructed . . 



Form of the cells 

Mathematical problem solved by Bees . . 

Calculated by Maraldi and Koenig . . 

Reasons for the form of the cells . . 

Referred to the form of the Bee 

Experiments of Huber 

Cells commenced in the foundation-wall 

Deepening of the cells 

Polishing by Nurse- Bees ... 

Distance of the combs from each other 
Dr. Barclay’s discovery .... 
Irregularities in their workmanship .... 
Anecdote from Dr. Bevan .... 
Similar anecdote from Huber .... 
Symmetry in the architecture of Bees explained 

Curved combs 

Experiments ofHuber .... 

Size of male cells ...... 

Cells enlarged when honey is plentiful . 

The finishing of the cells 

Varnished with propolis .... 

Strengthened with pissoceros . 

Discovery by Huber 

Cells strengthened by the Bee-grubs . . 

Difficulties explained 

Mistake of an American writer . . 

Curious experiment of Huber . . . 

Wild-Honey-Bees 

Wild-Bees of America, Ireland, Palestine 

Honey-guide of Africa 

Bee-huhting in America .... 



Carpentry of Tree-hoppers (Cicada) 

Mistaken for Grass-hoppers 

Singular cutting instrument of the Tree-hopper 

Double files of 

Their Nests '. 

Saw-Flies 

Their ovipositor ...... 

Structure of 

Comb-toothed rasp, and saw . . . . 

Grooves cut by it in the rose-tree . . 





Leaf-Rolling-Cafer pillars 
Lilac-Leaf-Roller 







Oak-Leaf-Roller • . . 

Rose-Leaf-Roller 
Nettle-Leaf- Roller . 

Method-of proceeding . . 

Probable mistake concerning . 
Sorrel-Leaf- Roller 
Admirable and painted Lady, Butterflies 
Mallow Butterfly of France 
Willow-Leaf-Bundler 
N^st of.Ziczac Caterpillar .. 

Nest of Glanville-Fritillary 
Experiment on gregarious Caterpillars 
Design in rolling leaves 




Habitations formed of detached leaves . 

The Pondweed Tent-Maker 
Chickweed Caterpillar’s nest 
Cypress-spurge Caterpillar’s nest 
Durability of these structures 
Compared with our architecture 
Moss-cell of a Wall-Caterpillar 
Caterpillar of Greenwich Park wall 



Caddis-Worms . . . . ' 

Leaf and reed nests of 
Shell nests of ... 

Stone and sand nests of . ' 

Nest balanced with straws 
Carpenter-Caterpillars .. .. 

Caterpillar of Goat-Moth 
Its winter nest .... 

Singular nest of . . . . 

Nest of the ZEgeria in a poplar 
Paper-nest of the Puss-Moth 
How it escapes from its cell 
Purple-Capricorn-Beetle 
Bark-building Caterpillar of the oak 



Earth-Mason-Caterpillars ... 
Outside walls of their nests 
Caterpillar of Ghost Moth . 
Experiments of Reaumur 
Nests of Ephemera Grubs 
Similar nests in a willow stump 
•Nests of the Cicindela-Beetle 

The AnPLion ' 

-Structure of the Grub 
Formation of its traps 
Reflections upon the economy of Nature 



Clothes-Moth Caterpillars . 

Varieties in the species 






Methods of destroying 





Mode of building . . . . 






Experiments upon .... 




Migrations of . . . . . 


 


Tent-Making Caterpillars . . 





Mode of constructing these 







Experiments upon .... 


•


Tent upon a Nettle-leaf . 










Stone Mason Caterpillars 





Their singular proceedings 





Colony of, at Blackheath . . 





Foundation of their Tents 


 


An attempted robbery 




Muff-shaped Tents . .... 





Their utility . . 














Leaf-Mining Caterpillars . ... 





On the leaf of the Monthly Rose-tree 





On the leaf of the Bramble 





On the leaf of the Primrose 






Vine-leaf Miner . . 







On the leaf of the Alder 


 


Social Leaf-Miners . .... 





Bark-mining Caterpillars .... 









Structures of Crickets 














House-Cricket 


















The Mole-Cricket .... 











The Field-Cricket .... 
















Mode of depositing eggs 












Beetles 
















The Burying-Beetle . . . . 













The Dung-Beetle 








Its cleanliness 
















The Rose-Chafer .... 


 


The Tumble-dung Beetle 














The Necklace-Beetle 





















Architecture of Ants 













Their genuine history begun by Gould 


 


Mason-Ants 














Structures of Turf-Ants 

 


Winter nest of Yellow-Ants . . 







Sort of earth employed in building 




Proceedings of the Brown-Ant 











Raft formed by American Ants 

 


Blind Ants 














Night proceedings of Ants 

 


Proceedings during rain . . . 













Experiments . 












History of a labouring Ant, by M. Huber 














Glazed Artificial Formicaries . 




Section of a Mason-Ant’s nest . 













Experiments by J. R. . , . 





 

Structures of the Wood-Ants, or Pismires 
Materials employed .... 
Coping of their nest 
Interior structure . . , . 

Glazed Formicary for experiments 
Their proceedings at night-fall . . 

Carpenter-Ants 

Emmets, or Jet Ants . 

Their galleries in Trees ... 
Extremely populous colony at BroGkley 
Dusky-Ants ... ... 

Foreign Ants ... . . .. .. 

Sugar-Ants of the West Indies 





Structures of White-Ants, or Termites . 

Their extraordinary comparative height . 
Their mining operations .... 

The Warrior (Termes bellicosus) .... 

Used as delicate food 

Commencement of their nests .... 

Royal chamber 

Nurseries . . . . . . . . 

Galleries and covert ways . . . 

Turret-building White-Ants 

Singular form of their nests . . 

White-Ants of trees and timber 

Death-Watch 



Spinning-Caterpillars ..... . . . 

Manifold advantages of spinning 
Structure of .their, legs and feet .. 

Side spiracles for breathing 
Internal structure ..... 
Structure of the silk-tube . ... 

Mode" of spinning described by La Pluche 
Silk-Worms . : . • 

Their transformations 

How they make their exit from the cocoons 
Parts* used in our manufactures 
History of th'e introduction of silk 
Varieties and species of silk-worms 
Emperor-Moth . . . . ... 

Ingenious contrivance of the cocoon 
Spinning-Caterpillars continued 

Elastic cocoon of Tortrix chlorana 

Slender covering of the Gypsy-Moth 

Cocoon of the Cream-spot Tiger-Moth . 

Experiment with the Dock- Weevil 

Nest of Puss-Moth, with cocoons of Ichneumons 




 



Cocoon of th.e Horned Mason-Bee 
Experiment with Eriogaster lanestris 
Social Spinning-Caterpillars . . . 

Winter nest of the Brown-tail Moth 
Winter nests of the Golden-tail Moth 
Pendulous leaf nests, from Bonnet . 
Nest of Processionary Caterpillars . 







Structures of Spiders . . , 

Spiders not properly insects, and why 
Apparatus for spinning 
Extraordinary number of spinnerules 
Attachment of the end of a thread 
Shooting of the Lines of Spiders 

1. Opinions of Redi, Swammerdam, and Kirby 

2. Lister, Kirby, and White 

3. ¦— La Pluche and Bingley 

4. D’lsjonval, Murray, and Bowman 

5. Experiments of Mr. Blackwall 
His account of the ascent of gossamer 

6. Experiments by J. R. . 

Thread supposed to go off double . . 

Subsequent experiments ... 

Nests, Webs, and Nets of Spiders 
Elastic satin nest of a Spider 
Evelyn’s account of hunting Spiders 
Labyrinthic Spider’s nest . . . 

Erroneous account of the House Spider . 
Geometric Spiders .... 

Mason-Spiders 

Ingenious door with a hinge . 

Nest from the West Indies, with spring hinge 
Raft-building Spider ...... 

Diving Water-Spider ..... 

Observations of M. Clerck ... 
Cleanliness of Spiders ..... 

Structure of their claws .... 

Fanciful account of them patting their webs 
Proceedings of a Spider in a steam-boat . 



Structures of Gall-Flies . . . - . 

Berry-gall of the oak-leaf, &c. 

Ingenious mechanism of the ovipositor 
Opinions of Naturalists as to the cause of Galls 

Bedeguar of the rose 

Artichoke-gall of the oak .... 
Leafy-gall of Dyer’s broom .... 

Rose-willow 

Rose-hawthorn 

Woolly-gall of the oak .... 

Experiments with the Flies .... 

Oak-apples ....... 

Root-galls of the oak .... 



















 


Woody-gall of the willow 







Oak currant-galls . . . 













Weevil-Galls 






Weevil-gall of the hawthorn 





Anbury on the roots of cabbages, &c. . 






Semi-Galls of Aphides .... 












Mountain-ash leaf-galls 






Poplar semi-galls of the cottony aphis 




Leaf-rolling Aphides 







Leaf of the currant-bush thus altered 





Shoot of the lime-tree thus convoluted 







Pseudo-Galls 












Pseudo-gall of the bramble 







hawthorn 





Scotch fir 



















Animal-Galls 










Enthusiasm of M. Reaumur for study 







Ovipositor of Breeze Flies 





Opinion of Mr. Bracey Clark on its use 







Effects produced by the fly upon cattle 





Observations of Linnaeus on the Rein-deer Breeze-Fly 






Opinion of Kirby and Spence . 







Observations of Mr. B. Clark 







Hatching of the egg .... 





Bumps, or wurbles, thence produced 






Communication of the grub with the air 





Final cause of these bumps . 







The Zimb (Breeze -fly?) of Africa . 


 


Human Breeze-fly .... 














Grub parasite in the Garden-Snail 











INSECT ARCHITECTURE. 


 

It can never be too strongly impressed upon a mind 
anxious for the acquisition of knowledge, that the 
commonest things by which we are surrounded are 
deserving of minute and careful attention. The 
most profound investigations of Philosophy are 
necessarily connected with the ordinary circum- 
stances of our being, and of the world in which 
our every-day life is spent. With regard to our own 
existence, the pulsation of the heart, the act of respi- 
ration, the voluntary movement of our limbs, the 
condition of sleep, are among the most ordinary 
operations of our nature ; and yet how long were the 
wisest of men struggling with dark and bewildering 
speculations before they could offer anything like a 
satisfactory solution of these phenomena, and how 
far are we still from an accurate and complete know- 
ledge of them ! The science of Meteorology, which 
attempts to explain to us the philosophy of matters 
constantly before our eyes, as dew, mist, and rain, 
is dependent for its illustrations upon a know- 
ledge of the most complicated facts, such as the 
influence of heat and electricity upon the air ; and 
that knowledge is at present so imperfect, that even 
these common occurrences of the weather, which 









men have been observing 1 and reasoning upon for 
ages, are by no means satisfactorily explained, or 
reduced to the precision that every science should 
aspire to. Yet, however difficult it may be entirely 
to comprehend the phenomena we daily witness, 
every thing in nature is full of instruction. Thus-' 
the humblest flower of the field, although, to one 
whose curiosity has not been excited, and whose un- 
derstanding has, therefore, remained uninformed, it 
may appear worthless and contemptible, is valuable 
to the botanist, not only with regard to its place in 
the arrangement of this portion of the Creator’s 
works, but as it leads his mind forward to the con- 
sideration of those beautiful provisions for the sup- 
port of vegetable life, which it is the part of the phy- 
siologist to study and to admire. 

This train of reasoning is peculiarly applicable to 
the economy of insects. They constitute a very large 
and interesting part of the animal kingdom. They are 
everywhere about us. The spider weaves his curious 
web in our houses ; the caterpillar constructs his silken 
cell in our gardens ; the wasp that hovers over our 
food has a nest not far removed from us, which she 
has assisted to build with the nicest art ; the beetle 
that crawls across our path is also an ingenious and 
laborious mechanic, and has some curious instincts to 
exhibit to those who will feel an interest in watching 
his movements ; and the moth that eats into our 
clothes has something to plead for our pity, for he 
came, like us, naked into the world, and he has de- 
stroyed our garments, not in malice or wantonness, 
but that he may clothe himself with the same wool 
which we have stripped from the sheep. An obser- 
vation of the habits of these little creatures is full of 
valuable lessons, which the abundance of the examples 
has no tendency to diminish. The more such observa- 
tions are multiplied, the more are we led forward to the 







freshest and the most delightful parts of knowledge ; 
the more do we learn to estimate rightly the extraor- 
dinary provisions and most abundant resources of a 
creative Providence ; and the better do we appreciate 
our own relations with all the infinite varieties of 
Nature, and our dependence, in common with the 
ephemeron that flutters its little hour in the summer 
sun, upon that Being in whose scheme of existence 
the humblest as well as the highest creature has its 
destined purposes. “ If you speak of a stone,” says 
St. Basil, one of the Fathers of the Church, “if you 
speak of a fly, a gnat, or a bee, your conversation 
will be a sort of demonstration of His power whose 
hand formed them ; for the wisdom of the workman 
is commonly perceived in that which is of little size. 
He who has stretched out the heavens, and dug up 
the bottom of the sea, is also He who has pierced a 
passage through the sting of the bee for the ejection 
of its poison.” 

If it be granted that making discoveries is one of 
the most satisfactory of human pleasures, then we may 
without hesitation affirm, that the study of insects is 
one of the most delightful branches of natural his- 
tory, for it affords peculiar facilities for its pur- 
suit. These facilities are found in the almost inex- 
haustible variety which insects present to the entomolo- 
gical observer. As a proof of the extraordinary num- 
ber of insects within a limited field of observation, Mr. 
Stephens informs us, that in the short space of forty 
days, between the middle of June and the beginning 
of August, he found, in the vicinity of Ripley, speci- 
mens of above two thousand four hundred species 
of insects, exclusive of caterpillars and grubs, — a 
number amounting to nearly a fourth of the insects 
ascertained to be indigenous. He further tells us, 
that among these specimens, although the ground 
had, in former seasons, been frequently explored, 





there were about one hundred species altogether new, 
and not before in any collection which he had in- 
spected, including several new genera ; while many 
insects reputed scarce were in considerable plenty*. 
The localities of insects are, to a certain extent, con- 
stantly changing ; and thus the study of them has, 
in this circumstance, as well as in their manifold 
abundance, a source of perpetual variety. Insects, 
also, which are plentiful one year, frequently become 
scarce, or disappear altogether, the next — a fact 
strikingly illustrated by the uncommon abundance, 
in 1826 and 1827, of the seven-spot lady-bird (Coc- 
cinella septempunctata ), in the vicinity of London, 
though during the two succeeding summers this 
insect was comparatively scarce, while the small two- 
spot lady-bird ( Coccinella bipunctata ) was plen- 
tiful. 

There is, perhaps, no situation in which the lover 
of nature and the observer of animal life may not 
find opportunities for increasing his store of facts. It 
is told of a state prisoner under a cruel and rigorous 
despotism, that when he was excluded from all com- 
merce with mankind, and was shut out from books, 
he took an interest and found consolation in the visits 
of a spider ; and there is no improbability in the 
story. The operations of that persecuted creature 
are among the most extraordinary exhibitions of me- 
chanical ingenuity ; and a daily watching of the 
workings of its instinct would beget admiration in 
a rightly constituted mind. The poor prisoner had 
abundant leisure for the speculations in which the 
spider’s web would enchain his understanding. We 
have all of us, at one period or other of our lives, been 
struck with some singular evidence of contrivance in 
the economy of insects, which we have seen with our 

* Stephens’s Illustrations, vol. i., p. 72, note. 






own eyes. Want of leisure, and probably want of 
knowledge, have prevented us from following up the 
curiosity which for a moment was excited. And yet 
some such accident has made men Naturalists, in the 
highest meaning of the term. Bonnet, evidently 
speaking of himself, says, “ I knew a Naturalist, 
who, when he was seventeen years of age, having 
heard of the operations of the ant-lion, began by 
doubting them. He had no rest till he had examined 
into them ; and he verified them, he admired them, 
he discovered new facts, and soon became the disciple 
and the friend of the Pliny of France*” (Reaumur.) 
It is not the happy fortune of many to be able to de- 
vote themselves exclusively to the study of nature, 
unquestionably the most fascinating of human em- 
ployments ; but almost every one may acquire suffi- 
cient knowledge to be able to derive a high grati- 
fication from beholding the more common operations 
of animal life. His materials for contemplation are 
always before him. Some weeks ago we made an 
excursion to West Wood, near Shooter’s Hill, ex- 
pressly for the purpose of observing the insects we 
might meet with in the wood ; but we had not got far 
among the bushes, when heavy rain came on. We 
immediately sought shelter among the boughs of 
some thick underwood, composed of oak, birch, and 
aspen ; but we could not meet with a single insect, 
not even a gnat or a fly, sheltered under the leaves. 
Upon looking more narrowly, however, into the 
bushes which protected us, we soon found a variety 
of interesting objects of study. The oak abounded 
in galls, several of them quite new to us ; while the 
leaves of the birch and the aspen exhibited the cu- 
rious serpentine paths of the minute mining cater- 
pillars. When we had exhausted the narrow field of 

* Contemplation de la Nature, part ii. ch. 42. 





observation immediately around us, we found that 
we could considerably extend it, by breaking a few of 
the taller branches near us, and then examining their 
leaves at leisure. In this manner two hours glided 
quickly and pleasantly away, by which time the rain 
had nearly ceased ; and though we had been dis- 
appointed in our wish to ramble through the wood, 
we did not return without adding a few interesting 
facts to our previous knowledge of insect economy *. 

It will appear then, from the preceding observations, 
that cabinets and collections, though undoubtedly of 
the highest use, are by no means indispensable, as 
the observer of nature may find inexhaustible sub- 
jects of study in every garden and in every hedge. 
Nature has been profuse enough in affording us 
materials for observation, when we are prepared to 
look about us with that keenness of inquiry, which 
curiosity, the first step in the pursuit of knowledge, 
will unquestionably give. Nor shall we be dis- 
appointed in the gratification which is thus with- 
in our reach. Were it no more indeed than a source 
of agreeable amusement, the study of insects comes 
strongly recommended to the notice of the well-edu- 
cated. The pleasures of childhood are generally 
snpposed to be more exquisite, and to contain less 
alloy, than those of riper years ; and if so, it must 
be because then every thing appears new and dressed 
in fresh beauties: while in manhood, and old age, 
whatever has frequently recurred begins to wear the 
tarnish of decay. The study of nature atfords us a 
succession of “ ever new delights,’* such as charmed 
us in childhood, when everything had the attractions 
of novelty and beauty; and thus the mind of the 
naturalist may have its own fresh and vigorous 

* The original observations in tins volume which are marked 
by the initials J. R., are by J. Rennie, A.M., A.L.S., Lee, Kent. 







thoughts, even while the infirmities of age weigh 
down the body. 

It has been objected to the study of insects, as 
well as to that of Natural History in general, 
that it tends to withdraw the mind from subjects 
of higher moment ; that it cramps and narrows 
the range of thought ; and that it destroys, or 
at least weakens, the finer creations of the fancy. 
Now, we should allow this objection in its fullest 
extent, and even be disposed to carry it further 
than is usually done, if the collecting of specimens 
only, or, as the French expressively call them, chips 
(echantillons), be called a study. But the mere col- 
lector is not, and cannot be, justly considered as a 
naturalist ; and, taking the term naturalist in its en- 
larged sense, we can adduce some distinguished in- 
stances in opposition to the objection. Rousseau, for 
example, was passionately fond of the Linnaean botany, 
even to the driest minutiae of its technicalities ; and 
yet it does not appear to have cramped his mind, or 
impoverished his imagination. If Rousseau, how- 
ever, be objected to as an eccentric being, from 
whose pursuits no fair inference can be drawn, we 
give the illustrious example of Charles James Fox, 
and may add the names of our distinguished poets. 
Goldsmith, Thomson, Gray, and Darwin, who were 
all enthusiastic naturalists. We wish particularly to 
insist upon the example of Gray, because he was 
very partial to the study of insects. It may be new 
to many of our readers, who are familiar with the 
Elegy in a Country Church-yard, to be told that 
its author was at the pains to turn the characteris- 
tics of the Linnaean orders of insects into Latin 
hexameters, the manuscript of which is still preserved 
in his interleaved copy of the “ Systema Naturae.” 
Further, to use the somewhat exaggerated words 
of Kirby and Spence, whose work on Entomology 
is one of the most instructive and pleasing books on 







the science, “ Aristotle among the Greeks, and Pliny 
the Elder among the Romans, may be denominated 
the fathers of Natural History, as well as the greatest 
philosophers of their day ; yet both these made 
insects a principal object of their attention : and in 
more recent times, if we look abroad, what names 
greater than those of Redi, Malpighi, Vallisnieri, 
Swammerdam, Leeuwenhoek, Reaumur, Linnaeus, 
De Geer, Bonnet, and the Hubers ? and at home, 
what philosophers have done more honour to their 
country and to human nature than Ray, Willoughby, 
Lister, and Derham ? Yet all these made the study 
of insects one of their most favourite pursuits*.” 

And yet this study has been considered, by 
those who have superficially examined the subject, 
as belonging to a small order of minds ; and the 
satire of Pope has been indiscriminately applied 
to all collectors, while, in truth, it only touches 
those who mistake the means of knowledge for 
the end : — 

“ O ! would the sons of men once think their eyes 
And reason given them but to study Flies ! 

See Nature in some partial, narrow shape, 

And let the Author of the whole escape; 

Learn but to trifle ; or, who most observe, 

To wonder at their Maker, not to servef.” 

Thus exclaims the Goddess of Dulness, sweeping 
into her net all those who study nature in detail. 
But if the matter were rightly appreciated, it would 
be evident that no part of the works of the Creator 
can be without the deepest interest to an inquiring 
mind ; and that a portion of creation, which exhibits 
such extraordinary manifestations of design as is 
shewn by insects, must have attractions for the very 
highest understanding. 

An accurate knowledge of the properties of insects 

* Introduction to Entomology, vol. i. 
f Dunciad, book iv. 






is of great importance to man, merely with relation to 
his own comfort and security. The injuries which they 
inflict upon us are extensive and complicated ; and the 
remedies which we attempt, by the destruction of 
those creatures, both insects, birds, and quadrupeds, 
who keep the ravagers in check, are generally ag- 
gravations of the evil, because they are directed by 
an ignorance of the economy of nature. The little 
knowledge which we have of the modes by which 
insects may be impeded in their destruction of much 
that is valuable to us, has probably proceeded from 
our contempt of their individual insignificance. The 
security of property has ceased to be endangered by 
quadrupeds of prey, and yet our gardens are ravaged 
by aphides and caterpillars. It is somewhat startling 
to affirm that the condition of the human race is 
seriously injured by these petty annoyances ; but it 
is perfectly true that the art and industry of man have 
not yet been able to overcome the collective force, 
the individual perseverance, and the complicated 
machinery of destruction which insects employ. A 
small ant, according to a most careful and philo- 
sophical observer, opposes almost invincible obstacles 
to the progress of civilization in many parts of the 
equinoctial zone. These animals devour paper and 
parchment ; they destroy every book and manu- 
script. Many provinces of Spanish America can- 
not, in consequence, shew a written document of a 
hundred years’ existence. “ What developement,” he 
adds, “ can the civilization of a people assume, if 
therej be nothing to connect the present with the 
past — if the depositories of human knowledge must 
be constantly renewed — if the monuments of genius 
and wisdom cannot be transmitted to posterity*?” 
Again, there are beetles which deposit their larvae 



* Humboldt, Voyage, lib, vii., ch. 20, 







in trees, in such formidable numbers, that whole 
forests perish, beyond the power of remedy. The 
pines of the Hartz have thus been destroyed to an 
enormous extent; and in North America, at one 
place in South Carolina, at least ninety trees in 
every hundred, upon a tract of two thousand acres, 
were swept away by a small, black, winged bug. And 
yet, according to Wilson, the historian of American 
birds, the people of the United States were in the habit 
of destroying the red-headed woodpecker, the great 
enemy of these insects, because he occasionally spoilt 
an apple*. The same delightful writer, and true natu- 
ralist, speaking of the labours of the ivory-billed wood- 
pecker, says, “ would it be believed that the larvae of 
an insect, or fly, no larger than a grain of rice, should 
silently, and in one season, destroy some thousand 
acres of pine trees, many of them from two to three 
feet in diameter, and a hundred and fifty feet high ? 
In some places the whole woods, as far as you can 
see around you, are dead, stripped of the bark, their 
wintry-looking arms and bare trunks bleaching in 
the sun, and tumbling in ruins before every blast f.” 
The subterraneous larva of a species of beetle ( Zabrus 
gibbus ) has often caused a complete failure of the 
seed-corn, as in the district of Halle in 1812 The 
corn-weevil, which extracts the flour from grain, 
leaving the husk behind, will destroy the contents of 
the largest storehouses in a very short period. The 
wire-worm, and the turnip-fly, are dreaded by every 
farmer. The ravages of the locust are too well known 
not to be at once recollected, as an example of the 
formidable collective power of the insect race. The 
white ants of tropical countries sweep away whole 
villages, with as much certainty as a fire or an inun- 

* Amer. Ornith., i., p. 144. f lb., iii.,p. 21. J Blumenbach. 







elation ; and ships even have been destroyed by these 
indefatigable republics. Our own docks and em- 
bankments have been threatened by such minute 
ravagers. 

The enormous injuries which insects cause to man 
may thus be held as one reason for ceasing to consider 
the study of them as an insignificant pursuit 5 for 
a knowledge of their structure, their food, their 
enemies, and their general habits, may lead, as it 
often has led, to the means of guarding against their 
injuries. At the same time we derive from them 
both direct and indirect benefits. The honey of the bee, 
the dye of the cochineal, and the web of the silk worm, 
the advantages of which are obvious, may well be 
balanced against the destructive propensities of in- 
sects which are offensive to man. But a philosophi- 
cal study of natural history will teach us, that the 
direct benefits which insects confer upon us are even 
less important than their general uses in maintaining 
the economy of the world. The mischiefs which 
result to us from the rapid increase and the activity 
of insects, are merely results of the very principle by 
which they confer upon us numberless indirect ad- 
vantages. Forests are swept away by minute flies ; 
but the same agencies relieve us from that extreme 
abundance of vegetable matter, which would render 
the earth uninhabitable, were this excess not periodi- 
cally destroyed. In hot countries, the great business 
of removing corrupt animal matter, which the vulture 
and the hyaena imperfectly perform, is effected with 
certainty and speed by the myriads of insects that 
spring from the eggs deposited in every carcass, by 
some fly seeking therein the means of life for her 
progeny. Destruction ahd reproduction, the great 
laws of Nature, are carried on very greatly through 
tlie instrumentality of insects ; and the same princi- 







pie regulates even the increase of particular species 
of insects themselves. When aphides are so abun- 
dant that we know not how to escape their ravages, 
flocks of lady-birds instantly cover our fields and 
gardens to destroy them. Such considerations as 
these are thrown out to shew that the subject of 
insects has a great philosophical importance — and 
what portion of the works of Nature has not? 
The habits of all God’s creatures, whether they are 
noxious, or harmless, or beneficial, are worthy 
objects of our study. If they affect ourselves, in 
our health or our possessions, whether for good or 
for evil, an additional impulse is naturally given to 
our desire to attain a knowledge of their properties. 
Such studies form one of the most interesting occu- 
pations which can engage a rational and inquisitive- 
mind; and, perhaps, none of the employments of 
human life are more dignified than the investigation 
and survey of the workings and the ways of Nature 
in the minutest of her productions. 

The exercise of that habit of observation which 
can alone make a naturalist — “ an out-of-door natu- 
ralist,” as Daines Barrington called himself — is well 
calculated to strengthen even the most practical and 
merely useful powers of the mind. One of the most 
valuable mental acquirements is the power of discri- 
minating among things which differ in many minute 
points, but whose general similarity of appearance 
usually deceives the common observer into a belief of 
their identity. Entomology, in this point of view, is a 
study peculiarly adapted for youth. According to our 
experience, it is exceedingly difficult for persons 
arrived at manhood to acquire this power of discri- 
mination ; but in early life, a little care on the part of 
the parent or teacher will render it comparatively easy. 
In this study the knowledge of things should go 
along with that of words. “ If names perish,” says 







Linnaeus, “ the knowledge of things perishes also*;” 
and without names, how can any one communicate 
to another the knowledge he has acquired relative to 
any particular fact, either of physiology, habit, utility, 
or locality? On the other hand, mere catalogue 
learning is as much to be rejected as the loose 
generalizations of the despisers of classification and 
nomenclature. To name a plant, or an insect, or a 
bird, or a quadruped rightly, is one step towards an 
accurate knowledge of it ; but it is not the knowledge 
itself. It is the means, and not the end, in natural 
history, as in every other science. 

If the bias of opening curiosity be properly di- 
rected, there is not any branch of natural history so 
fascinating to youth as the study of insects. It is, 
indeed, a common practice in many families, to 
teach children, from the earliest infancy, to treat the 
greater number of insects as if they were venomous 
and dangerous, and, of course, meriting to be de- 
stroyed, or, at least, avoided with horror. Associa- 
tions are by this means linked with the very ap- 
pearance of insects, which become gradually more 
inveterate with advancing years ; provided, as most 
frequently happens, the same system be persisted in, 
of avoiding or destroying almost every insect which 
is unlucky enough to attract observation. How much 
rational amusement and innocent pleasure is thus 
thoughtlessly lost ; and how many disagreeable feel- 
ings are thus created, in the most absurd manner! 
“ In order to shew,” says a writer in the Magazine 
of Natural History, “ that the study, or (if the word 
be disliked) the observation of insects is peculiarly 
fascinating to children, even in their early infancy, 
we may refer to what we have seen in the family of a 
friend, who is partial to this, as well as to all the 

* Nomina si pereant ; peril et coguitio rerum. 





departments of natural history. Our friend’s children, 
a boy and a girl, were taught, from the moment they 
could distinguish insects, to treat them as objects of 
interest and curiosity, and not to be afraid even of 
those which wore the most repulsive appearance. 
The little girl, for example, when just beginning to 
walk alone, encountered one day a large staphylinus 
( Goerius oleins? Stephens ; vulgo, the devil’s coach- 
horse), which she fearlessly seized, and did not quit 
her hold, though the insect grasped one of her fingers 
in his formidable jaws. The mother, who was by, 
knew enough of the insect to be rather alarmed for 
the consequences, though she prudently concealed 
her feelings from the child. She did well ; for the 
insect was not strong enough to break the skin, and 
the child took no notice of its attempts to bite her 
finger. A whole series of disagreeable associations 
with this formidable-looking family of insects was 
thus averted, at the very moment when a different 
mode of acting on the part of the mother would have 
produced the contrary effect. For more than two 
years after this occurrence, the little girl and her 
brother assisted in adding numerous specimens to 
their father’s collection, without the parents ever 
having had cause, from any accident, to repent of 
their employing themselves in this manner. The 
sequel of the little girl’s history strikingly illustrates 
the position for which we contend. The child hap- 
pened to be sent to a relative in the country, where 
she was not long in having carefully instilled into 
her mind all the usual antipathies against ‘ every- 
thing that creepeth on the earth and though she 
afterwards returned to her paternal home, no persua- 
sion nor remonstrance could ever again persuade her 
to touch a common beetle, much less a staphylinus, 
with its tail turned up in a threatening attitude, and its 
formidable jaws ready extended lor attack or defence.” 







We do not wish that children should be encouraged 
to expose themselves to danger, in their encounters 
with insects. They should be taught to avoid those 
few which are really noxious — to admire all — to 
injure none. 

The various beauty of insects — their glittering 
colours, their graceful forms — supplies an inexhaus- 
tible source of attraction. Even the most formidable 
insects, both in appearance and reality, — the dragon- 
fly, which is perfectly harmless to man, and the wasp, 
whose sting every human being almost instinctively 
shuns, — are splendid in their appearance, and are 
painted with all the brilliancy of natural hues. It 
has been remarked, that the plumage of tropical 
birds is not superior in vivid colouring to what may 
be observed in the greater number of butterflies and 
moths *. “ See ! ” exclaims Linnaeus, “ the large, 

elegant painted wings of the butterfly, four in num- 
ber, covered with delicate feathery scales! With these 
it sustains itself in the air a whole day, rivalling the 
flight of birds and the brilliancy of the peacock. 
Consider this insect through the wonderful progress 
of its life, — how different is the first period of its 
being from the second, and both from the parent 
insect ! Its changes are an inexplicable enigma to 
us : we see a green caterpillar, furnished with sixteen 
feet, feeding upon the leaves of a plant ; this is 
changed into a chrysalis, smooth, of golden lustre, 
hanging suspended to a fixed point, without feet, and 
subsisting without food ; this insect again undergoes 
another transformation, acquires wings, and six feet, 
and becomes a gay butterfly, sporting in the air, and 
living by suction upon the honey of plants. What 
has Nature produced more worthy of our admiration 
than such an animal coming upon the stage of the 



* Miss Jermyn’s Butterfly Collector, p. 11. 





 



world, and playing its part there under so many dif- 
ferent masks ? ” The ancients were so struck with 
the transformations of the butterfly, and its revival 
from a seeming temporary death, as to have consi- 
dered it an emblem of the soul, the Greek word 
signifying both the soul and a butterfly ; and 
it is for this reason that we find the butterfly intro- 
duced into their allegorical sculptures as an emblem 
of immortality. Trifling, therefore, and perhaps con- 
temptible, as to the unthinking may seem the study 
of a butterfly, yet when we consider the art and me- 
chanism displayed in so minute a structure, — the 
fluids circulating in vessels so small as almost to 
escape the sight — the beauty of the wings and 
covering — and the manner in which each part is 
adapted for its peculiar functions, — we cannot but 
be struck with wonder and admiration, and allow, 
with Paley, that “ the production of beauty was as 
much in the Creator’s mind in painting a butterfly 
as in giving symmetry to the human form.” 

A collection of insects is to the true naturalist what 
a collection of medals is to the accurate student of 
history. The mere collector, who looks only to the 
shining wings of the one, or the green rust of the 
other, derives little knowledge from his pursuit. But 
the cabinet of the entomologist becomes rich in the 
most interesting subjects of contemplation, when 
he regards it in the genuine spirit of scientific 
inquiry. What, for instance, can be so delightful 
as to examine the wonderful variety of structure in 
this portion of the creation ; and, above all, to trace 
the beautiful gradations by which one species runs 
into another. Their differences are so minute, that an 
unpractised eye would proclaim their identity ; and 
yet, when the species are separated, and not very 
distantly, they become visible even to the common 
observer. It is in examinations such as these that 







the naturalist finds a delight of the highest order. 
While it is thus one of the legitimate objects of his 
study to attend to minute ditferences of structure, 
form, and colouring, he is not less interested in the in- 
vestigation of habits and economy ; and in this respect 
the insect world is inexhaustibly rich. We find herein 
examples of instinct to parallel those of all the larger 
animals, whether they are solitary or social ; and 
innumerable others besides, altogether unlike those 
manifested in the superior departments of animated 
nature. These instincts have various directions, and 
are developed in a more or less striking manner to 
our senses, according to the force of the motive by 
which they are governed. Some of their instincts 
have for their object the preservation of insects from 
external attack ; some have reference to procuring' 
food, and involve many remarkable stratagems ; 
some direct their social economy, and regulate the 
condition under which they live together either in 
monarchies or republics, their colonizations, and their 
migrations : but the most powerful instinct which 
belongs to insects has regard to the preservation of 
their species. We find, accordingly, that as the ne- 
cessity for this preservation is of the utmost importance 
in the economy of nature, so for this especial object 
many insects, whose offspring, whether in the egg or 
the larva state, are peculiarly exposed to danger, 
are endued with an almost miraculous foresight, and 
with an ingenuity, perseverance, and unconquerable 
industry, for the purpose of avoiding those dangers, 
which are not to be paralleled even by the most singu- 
lar efforts of human contrivance. The same ingenuity 
which is employed for protecting either eggs, or ca- 
terpillars and grubs, or pupae and chrysalides, is also 
exercised by many insects for their own preservation 
against the changes of temperature to which they are 
exposed, or against their natural enemies. Many 





species employ those contrivances during the period 
of their hybernation, or winter-sleep. For all these 
purposes some dig holes in the earth, and form them 
into cells; others build nests of extraneous substances, 
such as bits of wood and leaves ; others roll up leaves 
into cases, which they close with the most curious 
art ; others build a house of mud, and line it with 
the cotton of trees, or the petals of the most delicate 
flowers ; others construct cells, of secretions from 
their own bodies ; others form cocoons, in which 
they undergo their transformation ; and others dig 
subterraneous galleries, which, in complexity of ar- 
rangement, in solidity, and in complete adaptation to 
their purposes, vie with the cities of civilized man. 
The contrivances by which insects effect these ob- 
jects have been accurately observed and minutely de- 
scribed, by patient and philosophical inquirers, who 
knew that such employments of the instinct with 
which each species is endowed by its Creator offered 
the most valuable and instructive lessons, and opened 
to them a wide field of the most delightful study. 
The construction of their habitations is certainly 
among the most remarkable peculiarities in the 
economy of insects ; and it is of this subject that we 
propose to treat under the general name, which is 
sufficiently applicable to our purpose, of Insect 
Architecture. 







In the descriptions which we shall give of Insect 
Architecture, we shall employ as few technical words 
as possible ; and such as we cannot well avoid, we 
shall explain in their places : but, since our subject 
chiefly relates to the reproduction of insects, it may 
be useful to many readers to introduce here a brief 
description of the changes which they undergo. 

* It was of old believed that insects were produced 
spontaneously by putrefying substances ; and Virgil 
gives the details of a process for creating a swarm 
of bees out of the carcase of a bull : but Redi, a cele- 
brated Italian naturalist, proved by rigid experiments 
that they are always, in such cases, hatched from eggs 
previously laid. Most insects, indeed, lay eggs, though 
some few are viviparous, and some, like serpents, 
propagate both ways. The eggs of insects are very 
various in form, and seldom shaped like those of 
birds. We have here figured those of several species, 
as they appear under the microscope. 




Eggs of Insects, — Magnified. 







When an insect first issues from the egg, it is called 
by naturalists larva , and, popularly, a caterpillar, a 
grub, or a maggot. The distinction, in popular lan- 
guage, seems to be, that caterpillars are produced 
from the eggs of moths or butterflies ; grubs, from 
the eggs of beetles, bees, wasps, &c. ; and maggots 
(which are without feet) from blow-flies, house-flies, 
cheese-flies, &c., though this is not very rigidly ad- 
hered to in common parlance. Maggots are also 
sometimes called worms, as in the instance of the 
meal-worm ; but the common earth-worm is not a 
larva, nor is it by modern naturalists ranked among 
insects. 

Larvae are remarkably small at first, but grow 
rapidly. The full-grown caterpillar of the goat-moth 
( Cossus ligniperda ) is thus seventy-two thousand 
times heavier than when it issues from the egg ; and 




Larvae, Grubs, Caterpillars, or Maggots. 








the maggot of the blow-fly is, in twenty-four hours, 
one hundred and fifty-five times heavier than at its 
birth. Some larvae have feet, others are without: 
none have wings. They cannot propagate. They feed 
voraciously on coarse substances ; and as they increase 
in size, which they do very rapidly, they cast their skins 
three or four times. In defending themselves from 
injury, and in preparing for their change by the con- 
struction of secure abodes, they manifest great inge- 
nuity and mechanical skill. The figures on the pre- 
ceding page, exemplify various forms of insects in this 
stage of their existence. 

When larvae are full grown, they cast their skins 
for the last time, undergo a complete change of form, 
and, with a few exceptions, cease to eat, and remain 
nearly motionless. When an insect, after this change, 
does not lose its legs, or continues to eat and move, 
it is popularly called a Nymph ; and when the inner 
skin of the larva is converted into a membranous or 
leathery covering, which wraps the insect closely up 
like a mummy, it is termed Pupa , from its resem- 




Pupce, or Chrysalides. 



blance to an infant in swaddling bands. From the 
pupae of many of the butterflies appearing gilt as if 







with gold, the Greeks called them Chrysalides , and 
the Romans Aur elite , and hence naturalists frequently 
call a pupa, chrysalis , even when it is not gilt. We 
shall see, as we proceed, the curious contrivances re- 
sorted to for protecting insects in this helpless state. 

After a certain time, the insect which has re- 
mained in its pupa-case, like a mass of jelly without 
shape, is gradually preparing for its final change, 
when it takes the form of a perfect insect. This 
state was called by Linnaeus, Imago , because the 
insect, having thrown off its mask, becomes a per- 
fect image of its species. Of some, this last por- 
tion of their existence is very short, others live 




Insects in the Imago or perfect state. 







through a year, and some exist for longer periods. 
They feed lightly, and never increase in size. The 
chief object of all is to perpetuate their species, after 
which the greater number quickly die. It is in this 
state that they exercise those remarkable instincts for 
the preservation of their race, which are exhibited in 
their preparations for the shelter of their eggs, and 
the nourishment of their larvae. The foregoing are 
examples of insects in the imago , or perfect state. 







STRUCTURES FOR PROTECTING EGGS. — MASON-WASPS ; 

mason-bees; mining-bees. 

The provisions which are made by the different 
species of’ insects for protecting’ their eggs, appear in 
many cases to be admirably proportioned to the kind 
of danger and destruction to which they may be ex- 
posed. The eggs themselves, indeed, are not so liable 
to depredation and injury as the young brood hatched 
from them; for, like the seeds of plants, they are capa- 
ble of withstanding greater degrees both of heat and 
cold than the insects which produce them. According 
to the experiments of Spallanzani, the eggs of frogs 
that had been exposed to various degrees of artificial 
heat, were scarcely altered in their productive powers 
by a temperature of 111° of Fahrenheit, but they 
became corrupted after 133°. He tried the same ex- 
periment upon tadpoles and frogs, and found they 
all died at 1 1 1°. Silk-worms died at a temperature 
of 10S°, while their eggs did not entirely cease to 
be fertile till 144°. The larvae of flesh-flies perished, 
while the eggs of the same species continued fertile, 
at about the same comparative degrees of heat as in 
the preceding instances. Intense cold has a still less 
effect upon eggs than extreme heat. Spallanzani ex- 
posed the eggs of silk-worms to an artificial cold 23° 
below zero, and yet, in the subsequent spring, they 
all produced caterpillars. Insects almost invariably 
die at the temperature of 14°, that is at 1S° below the 
freezing point*. The care of insects for the pro- 

* See Spallanzani's Tracts, by Dalyell, vol. i. 



MASON-WASPS. 







tection of their eggs is not entirely directed to their 
preservation in the most favourable temperature for 
being hatched, but to secure them against the nume- 
rous enemies which would attempt their destruction ; 
and, above all, to protect the grubs when they are 
first developed, from those injuries to which they are 
peculiarly exposed. Their prospective contrivances 
for accomplishing these objects are in the highest 
degree curious. 

Most persons have more or less acquaintance 
with the hives of the social species of bees and 
wasps : but little is generally known of the nests 
constructed by the solitary species, though in many 
respects these are not inferior to the others in dis- 
plays of ingenuity and skill. We admire the social 
bees, labouring together for one common end, in the 
same way that we look with delight upon the great 
division of labour in a well-ordered manufactory. 
As in a cotton-mill, some attend to the carding of 
the raw material, some to its formation into single 
threads, some to the gathering these threads upon 
spindles, others to the union of many threads into 
one, — all labouring with invariable precision because 
they attend to a single object ; — so do we view with 
delight and wonder the successive steps by which 
the hive-bees bring their beautiful work to its com- 
pletion, — striving, by individual efforts, to accomplish 
their general task, never impeding each other by use- 
less assistance, each taking a particular department, 
and each knowing its own duties. We may, how- 
ever, not the less admire the solitary wasp or bee, 
who begins and finishes every part of its destined 
work ; just as we admire the ingenious mechanic 
who perfects something useful or ornamental entirely 
by the labour of his own hands, — whether he be the 
patient Chinese carver, who cuts the most elaborately 
decorated boxes out of a solid piece of ivory, or the 





turner of Europe, who produces every variety of 
elegant form by the skilful application of the simplest 
means. 

Our island abounds with many varieties of solitary 
wasps and bees ; and their nests may therefore be 
easily discovered by those who, in the proper seasons, 
are desirous of observing the peculiarities of their 
architecture. 

Mason-Wasps. 

In September, 1828, a common species of solitary 
mason-wasp ( Odynerus , Latr.) was observed by us* 




Odynerus . — Natural size. 

on the east wall of a house at Lee, in Kent, very busy 
in excavating a hole in one of the bricks, about five 
feet from the ground. Whether there might not 
have been an accidental hole in the brick, before 
the wasp commenced her labours, is unknown, as 
she had made considerable progress in the work 
when first observed ; but the brick was one of the 
hardest of the yellow sort made in this neighbourhood. 
The most remarkable circumstance in the process of 
hewing into the brick, was the care of the insect in re- 
moving to a distance the fragments which from time 
to time she succeeded in detaching. It did not ap- 
pear to suit her design to wear down the brick, par- 
ticle by particle, as the furniture beetle ( Anobium 
pertinax ) does, in making its pin-hole galleries in 
old wood. Our wasp-architect, on the contrary, by 
means of her strong iranchant-ioo\h^6. jaws, severed 

* J, R. 



MASON-WASPS. 








Mandibles — Jaws of Mason-fFasp . — Greatly magnified. 

a piece usually about the bigness of a mustard-seed. 
It might have been supposed that these fragments 
would have been tossed out of the hole as the 
work proceeded, without further concern ; as the 
mole tosses above ground the earth which has been 
cleared out of its subterranean gallery. The wasp 
was of a different opinion ; for it was possible that 
a heap of brick chips, at the bottom of the wall, 
might lead to the discovery of her nest by some of 
her enemies, particularly by one or other of the 
numerous tribe of what are called ichneumon flies. 
This name is given to them, from the similarity of 
their habit of destroying eggs to that of the little 
animal which proves so formidable an enemy to the 
multiplication of the crocodile of Egypt. They may 
be also denominated cuckoo flies, because, like that 
bird, they thrust their egg into the nest of another 
species. These flies are continually prowling about 
and prying into every corner, to find, by stealth, a 
nidus for their eggs. It might have been some such 
consideration as this which induced the wasp to carry 
off the fragments as they were successively detached. 
That concealment was the motive, indeed, was proved ; 
for one of the fragments which fell out of the hole by 





accident, she immediately sought for at the bottom of 
the wall, and carried off like the rest. It was no easy 
matter to get out one of the fragments, as may readily 
be conceived when the size of the insect is compared 
with that of the entrance, of which this (©) is the 
exact size, as taken from the impression of a bit 
of dough upon the hole when finished. It was 
only by seizing the fragment with her jaws, and re- 
treating backwards, that the matter could be accom- 
plished ; though, after the interior of the excavation 
was barely large enough to admit of her turning 
round, she more than once attempted to make her 
exit head-foremost., but always unsuccessfully. The 
weight of the fragments removed did not appear to 
impede her flight, and she generally returned to her 
task in about two or three minutes. 

Within two days the excavation was completed; 
but it required two other days to line it with a coating 
of clay, to deposit the eggs, two in number, and, no 
doubt, to imprison a few live spiders or caterpillars, 
for the young when hatched, — a process which was 
first observed by Ray and Willoughby*, but which 
has since been frequently ascertained. In the present 
instance, this peculiarity was not seen ; but the little 
architect was detected in closing up the entrance, 
which was formed of a layer of clay more than 
double the thickness of the interior lining. In No- 
vember following, we hewed away the brick around 
this nest, and found the whole excavation was rather 
less than an inch in depth. 

Notwithstanding all the precautions of the careful 
parent to conceal her nest, it was found out by one of 
the cuckoo flies (Tachinn larvarum ?) — probably a 
common species very similar to the house-fly, but 

* Ray, Hist. Insect. 254. 



MASON-WASPS. 







Cuckoo-Fltf — (Tnchina larvarum ?) — Natural size. 

rather larger, which deposited an egg there ; and the 
grub hatched from it, after devouring one of the wasp- 
grubs, formed itself a cocoon («), as did the other 



Mason-IVasp's Nest and Cocoons . — About one-third the natural size. 

undevoured grub of the wasp (b). Both awaited 
the return of summer to change into winged insects, 
burst their cerements, and proceed as their parents 
did. 






Mason- IFasp—(Odynerus murarius ). — Natural size. 

Another mason-wasp ( Odynerus murarius , Latr.), 
differing little in appearance from the former, may 
often be seen frequenting sandy banks exposed to 
the sun, and constructing its singular burrows. 





The sort of sand-bank which it selects is hard and 
compact; and though this maybe more difficult to 
penetrate, the walls are not liable to fall down upon 
the little miner. In such a bank, the mason-wasp 
bores a tubular gallery two or three inches deep. 
The sand upon which Reaumur found some of these 
wasps at work was almost as hard as stone, and 
yielded with difficulty to his nail ; but the wasps dug 
into it with ease, having recourse, as he ascertained, 
to the ingenious device of moistening it by letting 
fall two or three drops of fluid from their mouth, 
which rendered the mass ductile, and the separation 
of the grains easy to the double pickaxe of the little 
pioneers. 

When this wasp has detached a few grains of the 
moistened sand, it kneads them together into a 
pellet about the size of one of the seeds of a goose- 
berry. With the first pellet which it detaches, it 
lays the foundation of a round tower, as an out- 
work, immediately over the mouth of its nest. 
Every pellet which it afterwards carries off from 
the interior is added to the wall of this outer 
round tower, which advances in height as the 
hole in the sand increases in depth. Every two or 
three minutes, however, during these operations, it 
takes a short excursion, for the purpose, probably, of 
replenishing its store of fluid wherewith to moisten the 
sand. Yet so little time is lost, that Reaumur has 
seen a mason-wasp dig in an hour a hole the length 
of its body, and at the same time build as much of its 
round tower. For the greater part of its height 
this round tower is perpendicular; but towards the 
summit it bends into a curve, corresponding to the 
bend of the insect’s body, which, in all cases of 
insect architecture, is the model followed. The 
pellets which form the walls of the tower are not 
very nicely joined, and numerous vacuities are left 



MASON-BEES. 








Nests, tyc. of Mason-JVasps . — About half the natural size. — 
a The tower of the nest, b The entrance after the tower is re- 
moved. c The cell, d The cell, with a roll of caterpillars pre- 
pared for the larva. 

between them, giving it the appearance of fillagree 
work. That it should be thus slightly built is not 
surprising, for it is intended as a temporary structure 
for protecting the insect while it is excavating its 
hole; and as a pile of materials, well arranged and 
ready at hand, for the completion of the interior 
building, — in the same way that workmen make a 
regular pile of bricks near the spot where they are 
going to build. This seems, in fact, to be the main 
design of the tower, which is taken down as expedi- 
tiously as it had been reared. Reaumur thinks, that 
by piling in the sand which has previously been dug 
out, the wasp intends to guard its progeny for a time 
from being exposed to the too violent heat of the 
sun ; and he has even sometimes seen that there were 
not sufficient materials in the tower, in which case 
the wasp had recourse to the rubbish she had thrown 








out after the tower was completed. By raising a 
tower of the materials which she excavates, the wasp 
produces the same shelter from external heat, as a 
human creature would who chose to inhabit a deep 
cellar of a high house. She further protects her 
progeny from the ichneumon fly, as the engineer con- 
structs an outwork to render more difficult the ap- 
proach of an enemy to the citadel. Reaumur has seen 
this indefatigable enemy of the wasp peep into the 
mouth of the tower, and then retreat, apparently 
frightened at the depth of the cell which he was 
anxious to invade. 

The mason-wasp does not furnish the cell she has 
thus constructed with pollen* and honey, like the 
solitary bees, but with living caterpillars, and these 
always of the same species, — being of a green colour, 
and without feet. She fixes the caterpillars together 
in a spiral column : they cannot alter their position, 
although they remain alive. They are an easy prey 
to their smaller enemy ; and when the grub has eaten 
them all up, it spins a case, and is transformed into 
a nymph, which afterwards becomes a wasp. The 
number of caterpillars which is thus found in the 
lower cavity of the mason-wasp’s nest is ordinarily 
from ten to twelve. The mother is careful to lay in 
the exact quantity of provision which is necessary to 
the growth of the grub before he quits his retreat. 
He works through his store till his increase in this 
state is perfected, and he is on the point of under- 
going a change into another state, in which he re- 
quires no food. The careful purveyor, cruel indeed 
in her choice of a supply, but not the less directed 
by an unerring instinct, selects such caterpillars as 
she is conscious have completed their growth, and 
will remain thus imprisoned without increase or cor- 





The prolific powder of flowers. 



MASON-BEES. 






ruption till their destroyer has gradually satisfied the 
necessities of his being. “ All that the worm of the 
wasp,” says Reaumur, “ has to do in his nest, from 
his birth to his transformation, is to eat.” There is 
another species of wasp which does not at once en- 
close in its nest all the sustenance which its larva 
will require before transformation, but which, from 
time to time, imprisons a living caterpillar, and when 
that is consumed opens the nest and introduces 
another*. 

Mason-Bees. 

It would not be easy to find a more simple, and, 
at the same time, ingenious specimen of insect archi- 
tecture, than the nests of those species of solitary 
bees, which have been justly called mason-bees 
( Megachile , Latreille.) Reaumur, who was struck 
by the analogies between the proceedings of insects 
and human arts, first gave to bees, wasps, and cater- 
pillars those names which indicate the character 
of their labours ; and which, though they may be 
considered a little fanciful, are at least calculated to 
arrest the attention. The nests of mason-bees are 
constructed of various materials ; some with sand, 
some with earth mixed with chalk, and some with a 
mixture of earthy substances and wood. 

On the north-east wall of Greenwich Park, facing 
the road, and about four feet from the ground, we 
discoveredf, December 10th, 1828, the nest of a 
mason-bee, formed in the perpendicular line of 
cement between two bricks. Externally there was 
an irregular cake of dry mud, precisely as if a hand- 
ful of wet road-stuff had been taken from a cart-rut 
and thrown against the wall ; though, upon closer 
inspection, the cake contained more small stones 



* Bonnet, Contemplation, &c. 1. xii. c. 41. f J. R. 








Mason-Bee — ( Anthophora retusa '). — Natural size. 

than usually occur in the mud of the adjacent cart- 
ruts. We should, in fact, have passed it by without 
notice, had there not been a circular hole on one side 
of it, indicating the perforation of some insect. This 




Exter ior ivall of Mason-Bee's nest. 



hole was found to be the orifice of a cell about'an inch 
deep, exactly of the form and size of a lady’s thimble, 
finely polished, and of the colour of plaster of Paris, 
but stained in various places with yellow. 

This cell was empty ; but upon removing' the cake 
of mud, we discovered another cell, separated from 
the former by a partition about a quarter of an inch 
thick, and in it a living bee, from which the preceding 
figure was drawn, and which, as we supposed, had 
just changed from the pupa into the winged state, 
in consequence of the uncommon mildness ot the 
weather. The one which hud occupied the adjacent cell 



MASON-BEES. 







had, no doubt, already dug its way out of its prison, 
and would probably fall a victim to the first frost. 

Our nest contained only two cells — perhaps from 
there not being room between the bricks for more. 




Cells of a Mason-Bee ( Anthophora retusa,') — One-third the natural size. 

An interesting account is given by Reaumur of ano- 
ther mason-bee ( Megachile muraria ), selecting earthy 
sand, grain by grain ; her gluing a mass of these toge- 
ther with saliva, and building with them her cells from 
the foundation. But the cells of the Greenwich Park 
nest were apparently composed of the mortar of the 
brick wall ; though the external covering seems to 
have been constructed as Reaumur describes his 
nest, with the occasional addition of small stones. 

About the middle of May, 1829, we discovered the 
mine from which all the various species of mason-bees 
in the vicinity seemed to derive materials for their 
nests*. It was a bank of brown clay, facing the east, 
and close by the margin of the river Ravensbourn, at 
Lee, in Kent. The frequent resort of the bees to this 
spot attracted the attention of some workmen, who, 
deceived by their resemblance to wasps, pointed it out 
as a wasp’s nest ; though they were not a little 
surprised to see so numerous a colony at this early 
season. As the bees had dug a hole in the bank, 



*J.K, 







where they were incessantly entering and re-appear- 
ing, we were of opinion that they were a peculiar 
sort of the social earth bees ( Bomb us ). On ap- 
proaching the spot, however, we remarked that the 
bees were not alarmed, and manifested none of the 
irritation usual in such cases, the consequence of 
jealous affection for their young. This led us to ob- 
serve their operations more minutely ; and we soon 
discovered that on issuing from the hole each bee 
carried out in its mandibles a piece of clay. Still 
supposing that they were social earth bees, we con- 
cluded that they were busy excavating a hollow for 
their nest, and carrying off the refuse to prevent dis- 
covery. The mouth of the hole was overhung, and 
partly concealed, by a large pebble. This we removed, 
and widened the entrance of the hole, intending to dig 
down and ascertain the state of the operations ; but 
we soon found that it was of small depth. The bees, 
being scared away, began scooping out clay from 
another hole about a yard distant from the first. 
Upon our withdrawing a few feet from the first hole, 
they returned thither in preference, and continued as- 
siduously digging and removing the clay. It became 
obvious, therefore, from their thus changing place, 
that they were not constructing a nest, but merely 
quarrying for clay as a building material. By catching 
one of the bees ( Osmia bicornis ) when it was loaded 
with its burden, we ascertained that the clay was not 
only carefully kneaded, but was also more moist than 
the mass from which it had been taken. The bee, 
therefore, in preparing the pellet, which was nearly 
as large as a garden pea, had moistened it with its 
saliva, or some similar fluid, to render it, we may 
suppose, more tenacious, and better fitted for build- 
ing. The reason of their digging a hole, instead of 
taking clay indiscriminately from the bank, appeared 
to be for the purpose of economizing their saliva, as 



MASON-BEES. 







the weather was clry, and the clay at the surface was 
parched and hard. It must have been this circum- 
stance which induced them to prefer digging a hole, 
as it were, in concert, though each of them had to 
build a separate nest. 

The distance to which they carried the clay was 
probably considerable, as there was no wall near, in 
the direction they all flew towards, upon which they 
could build ; and in the same direction also, it is 
worthy of remark, they could have procured much 
nearer the very same sort of clay. Whatever 
might be the cause of their preference, we could 
not but admire their extraordinary industry. It 
did not require more than half a minute to knead 
one of the pellets of clay ; and from their frequent 
returns, probably not more than five minutes to 
carry it to the nest, and apply it, were wanted. 
From the dryness of the weather, indeed, it was in- 
dispensable for them to work rapidly, otherwise the 
clay could not have been made to hold together. 
The extent of the whole labour of forming a single 
nest may be imagined, if we estimate that it must 
take several hundred pellets of clay ior its completion. 
If a bee work fourteen or fifteen hours a day, there- 
fore, carrying ten or twelve pellets to its nest every 
hour, it will be able to finish the structure in about 
two or three days ; allowing some hours of extra time 
for the more nice workmanship of the cells in which 
the eggs are to be deposited, and the young grubs 
reared. 

That the construction of such a nest is not a 
merely agreeable exercise to the mason-bee has been 
sufficiently proved by M. Du Hamel. He has ob- 
served a bee ( Megachile muraria) less careful to 
perform the necessary labour for the protection of 
her offspring than those we have described ; but, not 
less desirous of obtaining this protection, attempt to 

E 






usurp the nest which another had formed. A fierce 
battle was invariably the consequence of this attempt; 
for the true mistress would never give place to the 
intruder. The motive for the injustice and the re- 
sistance was an indisposition to further labour. The 
trial of strength was probably, sometimes, of as little 
use in establishing the right as it is amongst man- 
kind ; and the proper owner, exhausted by her 
efforts, had doubtless often to surrender to the dis- 
honest usurper. 

The account which Reaumur has given of the opera- 
tions of this class of bees differs considerably from 
that which we have here detailed ; from the species 
being different, or from his bees not having been able 
to procure moist clay. On the contrary, sand was 
the chief material used by his mason-bees ( Megachile 
muraria ) ; which they had the patience to select from 
the walks of a garden, and knead into a paste or 
mortar, adapted to their building. They had con- 
sequently to expend a much greater quantity of 
saliva, than our bees ( Osmia bicornis ) which worked 
with moist clay. Reaumur, indeed, ascertained that 
every individual grain of sand is moistened previous 
to its being joined to the pellet, in order to make 
it adhere more effectually. The tenacity of the 
mass is besides rendered stronger, he tells us, by 
adding a proportion of earth or garden mould. In 
this manner, a ball of mortar is formed, about the 
size of a small shot, and carried off to the nest. When 
the structure of this is examined, it has all the appear- 
ance externally of being composed of earth and small 
stones or gravel. The ancients, who were by no means 
accurate naturalists, having observed bees carrying 
pellets of earth and small stones, supposed that they 
employed these to add to their weight, in order to 
steady their flight when impeded by the wind. 

The nests thus constructed appear to have been 



MASON-BEES. 







more durable edifices than those which have fallen 
under our observation ; — for Reaumur says they 
were harder than many sorts of stone, and could 
scarcely be penetrated with a knife. Ours, on the 
contrary, do not seem harder than a piece of sun- 
baked clay, and by no means so hard as brick. One 
circumstance appeared inexplicable to Reaumur and 
his friend Du Hamel, who studied the operations of 
these insects in concert. After taking a portion of 
sand from one part of the garden-walk, the bees 
usually took another portion from a spot almost twenty 
and sometimes a hundred paces off, though the sand, 
so far as could be judged by close examination, was 
precisely the same in the two places. We should be 
disposed to refer this more to the restless character 
of the insect, than to any difference in the sand. 
We have observed a wasp paring the outside of a 
plank, for materials to form its nest; and though the 
plank was as uniform in the qualities of its surface, 
nay, probably more so than the sand could be, the 
wasp fidgeted about, nibbling a fibre from one, and 
a fibre from another portion, till enough was procured 
for one load. In the same way, the whole tribe of 
wasps and bees flit restlessly from flower to flower, 
not unfrequently revisiting the same blossom, again 
and again, within a few seconds. It appears to us, 
indeed, to be far from improbable, that this very rest- 
lessness and irritability may be one of the springs 
of their unceasing industry. 

By observing, with some care, the bees which we 
found digging the clay, we discovered one of them 
( Osmia bicornis) at work upon a nest, about a gun- 
shot from the bank. The place it had chosen was 
the inner wall of a coal-house, facing the south-west, 
the brick-work of which was but roughly finished. 
In an upright interstice of half an inch in width, be- 
tween two of the bricks, we found the little architect 









assiduously building its walls. The bricklayer’s 
mortar had either partly fallen out, or been removed 
by the bee, who had commenced building at the 
lower end, and did not build downwards, as the 
social wasps construct their cells. 

The very different behaviour of the insect here, and 
at the quarry, struck us as not a little remarkable. 
When digging and preparing the clay, our approach, 
however near, produced no alarm ; the work went 
on as if we had been at a distance; and though 
we were standing close to the hole, this did not scare 
away any of the bees upon their arrival to procure a 
fresh load. But if we stood near the nest, or even in 
the way by which the bee flew to it, she turned back 
or made a wide circuit immediately, as if afraid to 
betray the site of her domicile. We even observed 
her turning back, when we were so distant that it 
could not reasonably be supposed she was jealous of 
us ; but probably she had detected some prowling 
insect-depredator, tracking her flight with designs 
upon her provision for her future progeny. We 
imagined we could perceive not a little art in her 
jealous caution, for she would alight on the tiles as 
if to rest herself; and even when she had entered the 
coal-house, she did not go directly to her nest, but 
again rested on a shelf, and at other times pre- 
tended to examine several crevices in the wall, at 
some distance from the nest. But when there was 
nothing to alarm her, she flew directly to the spot, 
and began eagerly to add to the building. 

It is in instances such as these, which exhibit the 
adaptation of instinct to circumstances, that our 
reason finds the greatest difficulty in explaining the 
governing principle of the minds of the inferior ani- 
mals. The mason-bee makes her nest by an inva- 
riable rule ; the model is in her mind, as it has been 
in the mind of her race from their first creation : they 



MASON-BEES. 







have learnt nothing; by experience. But the mode in 
which they accomplish this task varies according to 
the situations in which they are placed. They appear 
to have a glimmering of reason, employed as an 
accessary and instrument of their instinct. 

The structure, when finished, consisted of a wall of 
clay supported by two contiguous bricks, enclosing 
six chambers, within which a mass of pollen, rather 
larger than a cherry-stone, was deposited, together 
with an egg, from which in due time a grub was 
hatched. Contrary to what has been recorded by pre- 
ceding naturalists, with respect to other mason-bees, 
we found the cells in this instance quite parallel and 
perpendicular ; but it may also be remarked, that the 






Cells of Mason-Bees, built, in the first and second figures, by 
Osmia bicornis between bricks, and in the third, by Megachile 
murariu in the fluting of an old pilaster ; about half the natural 
size. 

bee itself was a species altogether different from the 
one which we have described above as the Antho- 
phora return , and agreed with the figure of the one 
we caught quarrying the clay — ( Osmia bicornis.) 

There was one circumstance attending the pro- 
ceedings of this mason-bee which struck us not a 
little, though we could not explain it to our own 





satisfaction. Every time she left her nest for the pur- 
pose of procuring a fresh supply of materials, she 
paid a regular visit to the blossoms of a lilac tree 
which crrew near. Had these blossoms afforded a 
supply of pollen, with which she could have reple- 
nished her cells, we could have easily understood her 
design; but the pollen of the lilac is not suitable for 
this purpose, and that she had never used it was 
proved by all the pollen in the cells being yellow, 
whereas that of the lilac is of the same pale, purple 
colour as the flowers. Besides, she did not return im- 
mediately from the lilac tree to the building, but 
always went for a load of clay. There seemed to us, 
therefore, to be only two ways to explain the circum- 
stance : — she must either have applied to the lilac 
blossoms to obtain a refreshment of honey, or to pro- 
cure glutinous materials to mix with the clay. 

When employed upon the building itself, the bee 
exhibited the restless disposition peculiar to most 
hymenopterous* insects ; for she did not go on with 
one particular portion of her wall, but ran about from 
place to place every time she came to work. At first, 
when we saw her running from the bottom to the 
top of her building, we naturally imagined that she 
went up for some of the bricklayer’s mortar to mix 
with her own materials ; but upon minutely examining 
the walls afterwards, no lime could be discovered in 
their structure, similar to that which was apparent in 
the nest found in the wall of Greenwich Park. 

Reaumur mentions another sort of mason-bee, 
which selects a small cavity in a stone, in which she 
forms her nest of garden mould moistened with glu- 
ten, and afterwards closes the hole with the same 
material. 

* The fifth order of Linnaeus \ insects with four transparen 
veined wings. 








Mason-Bee and Nest — From Reaumur. 



Mining-Bees. 

A very small sort of bees ( Andrence ), many of 
them not larger than a house-fly, dig; in the ground 
tubular galleries little wider than the diameter of 
their own bodies. Samouelle says, that all of them 
seem to prefer a southern aspect ; but we have found 
them in banks facing the east, and even the north. 
Immediately above the spot where we have described 
the mason-bees quarrying the clay, we observed seve- 
ral holes, about the diameter of the stalk of a to- 
bacco-pipe, into which those little bees were seen 
passing. The clay here was very hard ; and on 
passing a straw into the hole as a director, and digging- 
down for six or eight inches, a very smooth circular 
gallery was found, terminating in a thimble -shaped 
horizontal chamber, almost at rijrht angles to the 
entrance, and nearly twice as wide. In this chamber 




Cell of Minxng-Bcc ( Andrena ), — About half the natural size. 



 



there was a ball of bright yellow pollen, as round as 
a garden pea, and rather larger, upon which a small 
white grub was feeding ; and to which the mother 
bee had been adding, as she had just entered a minute 
before with her thighs loaded with pollen. That it 
was not the male, the load of pollen determined ; for 
the male has no apparatus for collecting or trans- 
porting it. The whole labour of digging the nest 
and providing food for the young is performed by 
the female. The females of the solitary bees have 
no assistance in their tasks. The males are idle ; and 
the females are unprovided with labourers, such as 
the queens of the hive command. 

Reaumur mentions that the bees of this sort, whose 
operations he had observed, piled up at the entrance 
of their galleries the earth which they had scooped 
out from the interior; and when the grub was hatched, 
and properly provided with food, the earth was again 
employed to close up the passage, in order to prevent 
the intrusion of ants, ichneumon flies, or other de- 
predators. In those which we have observed, this 
Was not the case ; but every species differs from 
another in some little peculiarity, though they agree 
in the general principles of their operations. 







CARPENTER-BEES ; CARPENTER-WASPS ; UPHOLSTERER* 

BEES. 

Carpenter-Bees. 

Among the solitary bees are several British species 
which come under that class called carpenter-bees by 
M. Reaumur, from the circumstance of their working 
in wood, as the mason-bees work in stone. We have 
frequently witnessed the operations of these inge- 
nious little workers, who are particularly partial to 
posts, palings, and the wood-work of houses which has 
become soft by beginning to decay. Wood actually 
decayed, or affected by dry-rot, they seem to reject 
as unfit for their purposes; but they make no objec- 
tions to any hole previously drilled, provided it be 
not too large ; and, like the mason-bees, they not 
unfrequently take possession of an old nest, a few 
repairs being all that in this case is necessary. 

When a new nest is to be constructed, the bee 
proceeds to chisel sufficient space for it out of the 
wood with her jaws. We say her , because the task 
in this instance, as in most others of solitary bees 
and wasps, devolves solely upon the female, the male 
taking no concern in the affair, and probably being 
altogether ignorant that such a work is going forward. 
It is, at least, certain that the male is never seen giv- 
ing his assistance, and he seldom, if ever, approaches 
the neighbourhood. The female carpenter-bee has a 
task to perform no less arduous than the mason-bee ; 
for though the wood may be tolerably soft, she can 








only cut out a very small portion at a time. The suc- 
cessive portions which she gnaws off may be readily 
ascertained by an observer, as she carries them away 
from the place. In giving the history of a mason- 
wasp ( Odynerus ), at page 25, we remarked the 
care with which she carried to a distance little frag:- 
ments of brick, which she detached in the progress of 
excavation. We have recently watched a precisely 
similar procedure in the instance of a carpenter-bee 
forming a cell in a wooden post *. The only difference 
was, that the bee did not fly so far away with her frag- 
ments of wood as the wasp did ; but she varied the 
direction of her flight every time : and we could ob- 
serve, that after dropping the chip of wood which she 
had carried off, she did not return in a direct line to 
her nest, but made a circuit of some extent before 
wheeling round to go back. 

On observing the proceedings of this carpenter-bee 
next day, we found her coming in with balls of pollen 
on her thighs ; and on tracing her from the nest into 
the adjacent garden, we saw her visiting every flower 
which was likely to yield her a supply of pollen for 
her future progeny. This was not all : we subse- 
quently saw her taking the direction of the clay- 
quarry frequented by the mason-bees, as we have 
mentioned in page 35, where we recognized her 
loading herself with a pellet of clay, and carrying it 
into her cell in the wooden post. We observed her 
alternating this labour for several days, at one time 
carrying clay, and at another pollen ; till at length 
she completed her task, and closed the entrance with 
a barricado of clay, to prevent the intrusion of any 
insectivorous depredator, who might make prey of 
her young; or of some prying parasite, who might 
introduce its own eggs into the nest she had taken 
so much trouble to construct. 

* J. R. 









Cells of Carpenter-Bees , excavated in an old post . — In fig. a the 
cells contain the young grubs ; in fig. b the cells are empty. Both 
figures are shown in section, and about half the natural size. 

Some days after it was finished, we cut into the 
post, and exposed this nest to view. It consisted of 
six cells of a somewhat square shape, the wood 
forming the lateral walls ; and each was separated 
from the one adjacent by a partition of clay, of the 
thickness of a playing card. The wood was not 
lined with any extraneous substance, but was worked 
as smooth as if it had been chiselled by a joiner. 
There were five cells, arranged in a very singular 
manner — two being almost horizontal, two perpendi- 
cular, and one oblique. 

The depth to which the wood was excavated, in 
this instance, was considerably less than what we 
have observed in other species which dig perpendi- 
cular galleries several inches deep in posts and gar- 
den-seats ; and they are inferior in ingenuity to the 
carpentry of a bee described by Reaumur ( Xylocopa 
violacea ), which has not been ascertained to be a 
native of Britain, though a single indigenous species 
of the genus has been doubtingly mentioned, and is 







figured, by Kirby, in his valuable ‘ Monographia.’ Tf 
it ever be found here, its large size and beautiful 
violet-coloured wings will render mistakes impos- 
sible. 

The violet carpenter-bee usually selects an up- 
right piece of wood, into which she bores obliquely 
for about an inch ; and then, changing the direction, 
works perpendicularly, and parallel to the sides of 
the wood, for twelve or fifteen inches, and half an 
inch in breadth. Sometimes the bee is contented 
with one or two of these excavations ; at other times, 
when the wood is adapted to it, she scoops out three 
or four — a task which sometimes requires several 
weeks of incessant labour. 

The tunnel in the wood, however, is only one part 
of the work ; for the little architect has afterwards 
to divide the whole into cells, somewhat less than an 
inch in depth. It is necessary, for the proper growth 
of her progeny, that each should be separated from 
the other, and be provided with adequate food. She 
knows, most exactly, the quantity of food which each 
grub will require, during its growth ; and she there- 
fore does not hesitate to cut it otf from any additional 
supply. In constructing her cells, she does not employ 
clay, like the bee which we have mentioned above, 
but the sawdust, if we may call it so, which she has 
collected in gnawing out the gallery. It would not, 
therefore, have suited her design to scatter this about, 
as our carpenter-bee did. The violet bee, on the 
contrary, collects her gnawings into a little store-heap 
for future use, at a short distance from her nest. She 
proceeds thus : — At the bottom of her excavation she 
deposits an egg, and over it fills a space nearly an 
inch high with the pollen of flowers, made into a paste 
with honey. She then covers this over with a ceiling 
composed of cemented sawdust, which also serves 
for the floor of the next chamber above it. For this 










A. represents a part of an espalier prop, tunnelled in several 
places by the violet carpenter-bee : the stick is split, and shows the 
nests and passages by which they are approached. B, a portion 
of the prop, half the natural size. C, a piece of thin stick, pierced 
by the carpenter-bee, and split, to show the nests. D, Perspec- 
tive view of one of the partitions. E, Carpenter-bee ( Xylocopa 
violacea). F, Teeth of the carpenter-bee, greatly magnified: a, the 
upper side ; b, lower side. 



purpose, she cements round a wall a ring of wood 
chips, taken from her store- heap ; and within this ring 
forms another, gradually contracting the diameter till 
she has constructed a circular plate, about the thick- 
ness of a crown-piece, and of considerable hardness. 





This plate of course exhibits concentric circles, some- 
what similar to the annual circles in the cross section 
of a tree. In the same manner she proceeds till she 
has completed ten or twelve cells ; and then she closes 
the main entrance with a barrier of similar materials. 

Let us compare the progress of this little joiner with 
a human artisan — one who has been long practised in 
his trade, and has the most perfect and complicated 
tools for his assistance. The bee has learnt nothing 
by practice ; she makes her nest but once in her life, 
but it is then as complete and finished as if she had 
made a thousand. She has no pattern before her — 
but the Architect of all things has impressed a plan 
upon her mind, which she can realize without scale 
or compasses. Her two sharp teeth are the only 
tools with which she is provided for her laborious 
work ; and yet she bores a tunnel, twelve times the 
length of her own body, with greater ease than the 
workman who bores into the earth for water, with 
his apparatus of augers adapted to every soil. Her 
tunnel is clean and regular ; she leaves no chips at 
the bottom, for she is provident of her materials. 
Further, she has an exquisite piece of joinery to per- 
form, when her ruder labour is accomplished. The 
patient bee works her rings from the circumference 
to the centre, and she produces a shelf, united with 
such care with her natural glue, that a number of 
fragments are as solid as one piece. 

The violet carpenter-bee, as may be expected, oc- 
cupies several weeks in these complicated labours ; 
and during that period she is gradually depositing 
her eggs, each of which is successively to become 
a grub, a pupa, and a perfect bee. It is obvious, 
therefore, as she does not lay all her eggs in the 
same place — as each is separated from the other by 
a laborious process — that the egg which is first laid 
will be the earliest hatched ; and that the first perfect 






insect, being older than its fellows in the same tun- 
nel, will strive to make its escape sooner, and so on 
of the rest. The careful mother provides for this 
contingency. She makes a lateral opening at the 
bottom of the cells ; for the teeth of the young bees 
would not be strong enough to pierce the outer wood, 
though they can remove the cemented rings of saw- 
dust in the interior. Reaumur observed these holes, 
in several cases ; and he further noticed another ex- 
ternal opening opposite to the middle cell, which he 
supposed was formed, in the first instance, to shorten 
the distance for the removal of the fragments of wood 
in the lower half of the building. 

That bees of similar habits, if not the same spe- 
cies as the violet bee, are indigenous to this country, 
is proved by Grew, who mentions, in his c Rarities 
of Gresham College,’ having found a series of such 
cells in the middle of the pith of an old elder branch, 
in which they were placed lengthwise, one after an- 
other, with a thin boundary between each. As he 
does not, however, tell us that he was acquainted 
with the insect which constructed these, it might 
as probably be allied to the Ceratina albilabris, of 
which Spinola has given so interesting an account 
in the ‘ Annales du Museum d’Histoire Naturelle’ 
(x. 236). This noble and learned naturalist tells 
us, that one evening he perceived a female ceratina 
alight on the branch of a bramble, partly withered, 
and of which the extremity had been broken ; and, 
after resting a moment, suddenly disappear. On 
detaching the branch, he found that it was perfo- 
rated, and that the insect was in the very act of exca- 
vating a nidus for her eggs. He forthwith gathered 
a bundle of branches, both of the bramble and the 
wild-rose, similarly perforated, and took them home 
to examine them at leisure. Upon inspection, he 





found that the nests were furnished, like those of the 
same tribe, with balls of pollen kneaded with honey, 
as a provision for the grubs. 

The female ceratina selects a branch of the bramble 
or wild-rose which has been accidentally broken, and 
digs into the pith only, leaving the wood and bark 
untouched. Her mandibles, indeed, are not adapted 
for gnawing wood; and, accordingly, he found in- 
stances in which she could not finish a nest in 
branches of the wild-rose, where the pith was not of 
sufficient diameter. 

The insect usually makes her perforation a foot in 
depth, and divides this into eight, nine, or even 
twelve cells, each about five lines long, and sepa- 
rated by partitions formed of the gnawings of the 
pith, cemented by honey, or some similar glutinous 
fluid, much in the same manner with the ocylocopa 
violacea , which we have already described. 

Carpenter-Wasps. 

As there are mason-wasps similar in economy to 
mason-bees, so are there solitary carpenter-wasps 
which dig galleries in timber, and partition them out 
into several cells by means of the gnawings of the 
wood which they have detached. This sort of 
wasp is of the genus Eumenes. The wood se- 
lected is generally such as is soft, or in a state of 
decay ; and the hole which is dug in it is much less 
neat and regular than that of the carpenter-bees, 
while the division of the chambers is nothing 1 more 
than the rubbish produced during the excavation. 

The provision which is made for the grub consists 
of flies or gnats piled into the chamber, but without 
the nice order remarkable in the spiral columns of 
green caterpillars provided by the mason-wasp 
( Odynerus murarius). The most remarkable cir- 
cumstance is, that in some of the species, when the 








A B represent sections of old wooden posts, with the cells of 
the carpenter-wasp, In fig-. A the young grubs are shewn feeding 
on the insects placed there for their support by the parent wasp. 
The cells in fig. B contain cocoons. C, carpenter-wasp, natural 
size. D, cocoon of a carpenter-wasp, composed of sawdust and 
wings of insects. 



grub is about to go into the pupa state, it spins a 
case (a cocoon), into which it interweaves the wings 
of the flies whose bodies it has previously devoured. 
In other species, the gnawings of the wood are em- 
ployed in a similar manner. 

Upholsterer-Bees. 

In another part of this volume we shall see how 
certain caterpillars construct abodes for themselves, 
by cutting off portions of the leaves or bark of 
plants, and uniting them by means of silk into a 
uniform and compact texture ; but this scarcely ap- 
pears so wonderful as the prospective labours of 
some species of bees for the lodgment of their pro- 
geny. We allude to the solitary bees, known by the 
name of the leaf-cutting bees, but which may be de- 
nominated more generally upholsterer-becs , as there 
are some of them which use other materials beside 
leaves. 





One species of our little upholsterers has been 
called the poppy-bee ( Osmia papaveris , Latr.), 
from its selecting the scarlet petals of the poppy as 
tapestry for its cells. Kirby and Spence express 
their doubts whether it is indigenous to this coun- 
try: we are almost certain that we have seen the 
nests in Scotland*. At Largs, in Ayrshire, a beau- 
tiful sea-bathing village on the Firth of Clyde, in 
July, 1814, we found in a foot-path a great num- 
ber of the cylindrical perforations of the poppy- 
bee. Reaumur remarked that the cells of this bee 
which he found at Bercy, were situated in a nor- 
thern exposure, contrary to what he had remarked 
in the mason-bee, which prefers the south. The 
cells at Largs, however, were on an elevated bank, 
facing the south, near Sir Thomas Brisbane's ob- 
servatory. With respect to exposure, indeed, no 
certain rule seems applicable ; for the nests of mason- 
bees which we found on the wall of Greenwich Park 
faced the north-east, and we have often found car- 
penter-bees make choice of a similar situation. In 
one instance, we found carpenter-bees working in- 
differently on the north-east and south-west side of 
the same post. 

As we did not perceive any heaps of earth near 
the holes at Largs, we concluded that it must either 
have been carried off piecemeal when they were 
dug, or that they were old holes re-occupied, — (a 
circumstance common with bees), and that the rub- 
bish had been trodden down by passengers. Reau- 
mur, who so minutely describes the subsequent opera- 
tions of the bee, says nothing respecting its excava- 
tions. One of these holes is about three inches deep, 
gradually widening as it descends, till it assumes the 
form of a small Florence flask. The interior of this 
is rendered smooth, uniform, and polished, in order 



* J, R 




to adapt it to the tapestry with which it is in- 
tended to be hung, and which is the next step in the. 
process. 

The material used for tapestry by the insect uphol- 
sterer is supplied by the petals* of the scarlet field- 
poppy, from which she successively cuts off small 
pieces of an oval shape, seizes them between her legs, 
and conveys them to the nest. She begins her work 
at the bottom, which she overlays with three or four 
leaves in thickness, and the sides have never less than 
two. When she finds that the piece she has brought 
is too large to fit the place intended, she cuts off what 
is superfluous, and carries away the shreds. By cut- 
ting the fresh petal of a poppy with a pair of scissors, 
we may perceive the difficulty of keeping the piece 
free from wrinkles and shrivelling ; but the bee knows 
how to spread the pieces which she uses as smooth 
as glass. 

When she has in this manner hung the little cham- 
ber all round with this splendid scarlet tapestry, of 
which she is not sparing, but extends it even be- 
yond the entrance, she then fills it with the pollen 
of flowers mixed with honey, to the height of about 
half an inch. In this magazine of provisions for her 
future progeny she lays an egg, and over it folds 
down the tapestry of poppy petals from above. The 
upper part is then filled in with earth ; but Latreille 
says, he has observed more than one cell constructed 
in a single excavation. This may account for Reau- 
mur’s describing them as sometimes seven inches 
deep ; a circumstance which Latreille, however, thinks 
very surprising. 

It will, perhaps, be impossible ever to ascertain, 
beyond a doubt, whether the tapestry-bee is led to 

* Petal is the term employed by botanists to denote the leaf, 
or division of the coloured portion of a flower, 







select the brilliant petals of the poppy from their co- 
lour, or from any other quality they may possess, 
of softness or of warmth, for instance. Reaumur 
thinks that the largeness, united with the flexibility 
of the poppy-leaves, determines her choice. Yet it 
is not improbable that her eye may be gratified 
by the appearance of her nest ; — that she may pos- 
sess a feeling of the beautiful in colour, and may 
look with complacency upon the delicate hang- 
ings of the apartment which she destines for her 
offspring. Why should not an insect be supposed 
to have a glimmering of the value of ornament? 
How can we pronounce, from our limited notion 
of the mode in which the inferior' animals think 
and act, that their gratifications are wholly bounded 
by the positive utility of the objects which sur- 
round them ? Why does a dog howl at the sound 
of a bugle, but because it offends his organs of hear- 
ing ? — and why, therefore, may not a bee feel glad- 
ness in the brilliant hues of her scarlet drapery, be- 
cause they are grateful to her organs of sight ? All 
these little creatures work, probably, with more neat- 
ness and finish than is absolutely essential for com- 
fort ; and this circumstance alone would imply that 
they have something of taste to exhibit, which pro- 
duces to them a pleasurable emotion. 

The tapestry-bee is, however, content with orna- 
menting the interior only of the nest which she forms 
for her progeny. She does not misplace her embel- 
lishments with the error of some human artists. She 
desires security as well as elegance ; and, therefore, 
she leaves no external traces of her operations. Hers 
is not a mansion rich with columns and friezes with- 
out, but cold and unfurnished within, like the deso- 
late palaces of Venice. She covers her tapestry 
quite round with the common earth ; and leaves her 
eggs enclosed in their poppy-case with a certainty 






that the outward shew of her labours will attract no 
plunderer. 

The poppy-bee may be known by its being rather 
more than a third of an inch long, of a black colour, 
studded on the head and back with reddish grey 
hairs ; the belly being grey and silky, and the rings 
margined with grey above, the second and third 
having an impressed transversal line. 

A species of solitary bee (Anthidium manicatum, 
Fabricius), by no means uncommon with us, forms 
a nest of a peculiarly interesting structure. Kirby and 
Spence say, that it does not excavate holes, but makes 
choice of the cavities of old trees, key-holes, and si- 
milar localities ; yet it is highly probable, we think, 
that it may sometimes scoop out a suitable cavity 
when it cannot find one ; for its mandibles seem 
equally capable of this, with those of any of the car- 
penter or mason bees. 

Be this as it may, the bee in question having se- 
lected a place suitably sheltered from the weather, 
and from the intrusion of depredators, proceeds to 
form her nest, the exterior walls of which she forms 
of the wool of pubescent plants, such as rose-cam- 
pion ( Lychnis coronario ), the quince ( Pyrus cydo- 
nia ), cats-ears ( Slachys lanata ), &c. “ It is very 

pleasant,” says Mr. White of Selborne, “ to see with 
what address this insect strips off the down, running 
from the top to the bottom of the branch, and shaving 
it bare with all the dexterity of a hoop shaver. When 
it has got a vast bundle, almost as large as itself, it 
flies away, holding it secure between its chin and its 
fore-legs 

The manner in which the cells of the nest are 
* Naturalists’ Calendar, p. 109. 







made seems not to be very clearly understood. M. 
Latreille says, that after constructing her nest of the 
down of quince leaves, she deposits her eggs, together 
with a store of paste, formed of the pollen of flowers, 
for nourishing the grubs. Kirby and Spence, on the 
other hand, tell us, that “ the parent bee, after 
having constructed her cells, laid an egg in each, and 
filled them with a store of suitable food, plasters 
them with a covering of vermiform masses, appa- 
rently composed of honey and pollen; and having 
done this, aware, long before Count Rumford’s expe- 
riments, what materials conduct heat most slowly,” 
she collects the down from woolly plants, and “ sticks 
it upon the plaster that covers her cells, and thus 
closely envelops them with a warm coating of down, 
impervious to every change of temperature.” “ From 
later observations,” however, they are “ inclined to 
think that these cells may possibly, as in the case of 
the humble-bee, be in fact formed by the larva pre- 
viously to becoming a pupa, after having eaten the 
provision of pollen and honey with which the parent 
bee had surrounded it. The vermicular shape, how- 
ever, of the masses with which the cases are sur- 
rounded, does not seem easily reconcileable with this 
supposition, unless they are considered as the excre- 
ment of the larva.” * 

Whether or not this second explanation is the true 
one, we have not the means of ascertaining ; but we 
are almost certain the first is incorrect, as it is con- 
trary to the regular procedure of insects, to begin 
with the interior part of any structure, and work out- 
wards. We should imagine, then, that the down is 
first spread out into the form required, and afterwards 
plastered on the inside to keep it in form, when pro- 



* Introduction to Entomology, vol. i. p.435, 5th edit. 







bably the grub spins the vermicular cells previous to 
its metamorphosis. 

It might prove interesting to investigate this more 
minutely ; and, as the bee is by no means scarce 
in the neighbourhood of London, it might not be 
difficult for a careful observer to witness all the details 
of this singular architecture. The bee may be readily 
known from its congeners, by its being about the size 
of the hive-bee, but more broad and flattened, blackish 
brown above, with a row of six yellow or white 
spots along each side of the rings, very like the rose- 
leaf cutter, and having the belly covered with yellow- 
ish brown hair, and the legs fringed with long hairs 
of a rather lighter colour. 

A common bee belonging to the family of uphol- 
sterers is called the rose-leaf cutter ( Megachile cen- 
tuncularis , Latr.). The singularly ingenious habits of 
this bee have long attracted the attention of naturalists, 
but the most interesting description is given by 
Reaumur. So extraordinary does the construction 
of their nests appear, that a French gardener having 
dug up some, and believing them to be the work of 
a magician, who had placed them in his garden with 
evil intent, sent them to Paris to his master, for ad- 
vice as to what should be done by way of exorcism. 
On applying to the Abbe Nollet, the owner of the 
garden was soon persuaded that the nests in ques- 
tion were the work of insects ; and M. Reaumur, to 
whom they were subsequently sent, found them to 
be the nests of one of the upholsterer-bees, and pro- 
bably of the rose-leaf cutter, though the nests in ques- 
tion were made of the leaves of the mountain-ash 
( Pyrus aucuparia). 

The rose-leaf cutter makes a cylindrical hole in a 
beaten pathway, for the sake of more consolidated 
earth, (or in the cavities of walls or decayed wood,) 



 



from six to ten inches deep, and does not throw the 
earth dug- out from it into a heap, like the an- 
drenae*. In this she constructs several cells about an 
inch in length, shaped like a thimble, and made of 
cuttings of leaves (not petals), neatly folded together, 
the bottom of one thimble-shaped cell being inserted 
into the mouth of the one below it, and so on in suc- 
cession. 

It is interesting to observe the manner in which 
this bee procures the materials for forming the tapes- 
try of her cells. The leaf of the rose-tree seems to 
be that which she prefers, though she sometimes 
takes other sorts of leaves, particularly those with ser- 
rated margins, such as the birch, the perennial mer- 
cury ( Mercurialis perennis ), mountain ash, &c. She 
places herself upon the outer edge of the leaf which 
she has selected, so that its margin may pass between 
her legs. Turning her head towards the point, she 
commences near the footstalk, and with her mandi- 
bles cuts out a circular piece with as much expedi- 
tion as we could do with a pair of scissors, and with 
more accuracy and neatness than could easily be done 
by us. As she proceeds, she keeps the cut portion be- 
tween her legs so as not to impede her progress ; and 
using her body for a trammel, as a carpenter would 
say, she cuts in a regular curved line. As she sup- 
ports herself during the operation upon the portion 
of the leaf which she is detaching, it must be ob- 
vious, when it is nearly cut off, that the weight of 
her body might tear it away, so as to injure the accu- 
racy of its curvilineal shape. To prevent any acci- 
dent of this kind, as soon as she suspects that her 
weight might tear it, she poises herself on her wings, 
till she has completed the incision. It has been 
said, by naturalists, that this manoeuvre of poising 



* See p. 43. 







herself on the wing, is to prevent her falling to the 
ground, when the piece gives way ; but as no winged 
insect requires to take any such precaution, our ex- 
planation is probably the true one. 




Rose-leaf-cutter bees, and nest lined with rose-leaves. 

With the piece which she has thus cut out, held in 
a bent position perpendicular to her body, she flies 
otF to her nest, and fits it into the interior with the ut- 
most neatness and ingenuity; and, without employing 
any paste or glue, she trusts, as Reaumur ascertained, 
to the spring the leaf takes, in trying to retain it in its 
position. It requires from nine to twelve pieces of 
leaf to form one cell, as they are not always of pre- 

 



cisely the same thickness. The interior surface of 
each cell consists of three pieces of leaf, of equal size, 
narrow at one end, but gradually widening at the 
other, where the width equals half the length. One 
side of each of the pieces is the serrated margin of 
the leaf from which it was cut, and this margin is 
always placed outermost, and the cut margin inner- 
most. Like most insects, she builds from the inte- 
rior, beginning with a layer of tapestry, which is 
composed of three or four oval pieces, larger in 
dimensions than the rest, adding a second and a 
third layer proportionately smaller. In forming 
these, she is careful not to place a joining opposite to 
a joining, but, with all the skill of a consummate ar- 
tificer, lays the middle of each piece of leaf over the 
margins of the others, so as by this means both to 
cover and strengthen the junctions. By repeating 
this process, she sometimes forms a fourth or fifth 
layer of leaves, taking care to bend the leaves at the 
narrow extremity or closed end of the cell, so as to 
bring them into a convex shape. 

When she has in this manner completed a cell, her 
next business is to replenish it with a store of honey 
and pollen, which, being chiefly collected from thistles, 
forms a beautiful rose-coloured conserve. In this 
she deposits a single egg, and then covers in the 
opening with three pieces of leaf, so exactly circular, 
that a pair of compasses could not define their mar- 
gin with more accuracy. In this manner the indus- 
trious and ingenious upholsterer proceeds till the 
whole gallery is filled, the convex extremity of the 
one fitting into the open end of the next, ancl serving 
both as a basis and as the means of strengthening 
it. If, by any accident, the labour of these insects is 
interrupted or the edifice deranged, they exhibit 
astonishing perseverance in setting it again to rights. 







Insects, indeed, are not easily forced to abandon any 
work which they may have begun. 

The monkish legends tell us that St. Francis 
Xavier, walking one day in a garden, and seeing an 
insect, of the Mantis genus, moving along in its 
solemn way, holding up its two fore legs as in the 
act of devotion, desired it to sing the praises of God. 
The legend adds that the saint immediately heard 
the insect carol a fine canticle with a loud emphasis. 
We want no miraculous voice to record the wonders 
of the Almighty hand, when we regard the insect 
world. The little rose-leaf cutter, pursuing her work 
with the nicest mathematical art — using no artificial 
instruments to form her ovals and her circles — know- 
ing that the elastic property of the leaves will retain 
them in their position — making her nest of equal 
strength throughout, by the most rational adjustment 
of each distinct part — demands from us something 
more than mere wonder; for such an exercise of 
instinctive ingenuity at once directs our admiration 
to the great Contriver, who has so admirably pro- 
portioned her knowledge to her necessities. 







carder-bees; humble-bees; social-wasps. 

The bees and wasps, whose ingenious architecture 
we have already examined, are solitary in their la- 
bours. Those we are about to describe live in so- 
ciety. The perfection of the social state among this 
class of insects is certainly that of the hive-bees. 
They are the inhabitants of a large city, where the 
arts are carried to a higher excellence than in small 
districts, enjoying little communication of intelli- 
gence. But the bees of the villages, if we may follow 
up the parallel, are not without their interest. Such 
are those which are called carder-bees and humble 
bees. 

Carder-Bees, 

The nests of the bees which Reaumur denomi- 
nates carders ( Bombus muscorum , Latr.), are by no 
means uncommon, and are well worth the study of 
the naturalist. During the hay harvest, they are fre- 
quently met with by mowers in the open fields and 
meadows ; but they may sometimes be discovered in 
hedge-banks, the borders of copses, or among moss- 
grown stones. The description of the mode of build- 
ing adopted by this bee has been copied by most of our 
writers on insects from Reaumur ; though he is not a 
little severe on those who write, without having ever 
had a single nest in their possession. We have been 
able to avoid such a reproach ; for we have now before 






ns a very complete nest of carder-bees, which differs 
from those described by Reaumur, in being made, not 
of moss, but withered grass. With this exception, 
we find that his account agrees accurately with our 
own observations*. 

The carder-bees select for their nest a shallow ex- 
cavation about half a foot in diameter ; but when they 
cannot find one to suit their purpose, they under- 
take the Herculean task of digging one themselves. 
They cover this hollow w T ith a dome of moss — some- 
times, as we have ascertained, of withered grass. 
They make use, indeed, of whatever materials maybe 
within their reach ; for they do not attempt to bring 
any thing from a distance, not even when they are 
deprived of the greater portion by an experimental 
naturalist. Their only method of transporting ma- 
terials to the building is by pushing them along the 
ground — the bee, for that purpose, working back- 
wards, with its head turned from the nest. If there 
is only one bee engaged in this labour, as usually 
happens in the early spring, when a nest is founded 
by a solitary female who has outlived the winter, she 
transports her little bundles of moss or grass by suc- 
cessive backward pushes, till she gets them home. 

In the latter part of the season, when the hive is 
populous and can afford more hands, there is an in- 
genious division of this labour. A file of bees, to the 
number sometimes of half a dozen, is established, 
from the nest to the moss or grass which they intend 
to use, the heads of all the file of bees being turned 
from the nest and towards the material. The last 
bee of the file lays hold of some of the moss with 
her mandibles, disentangles it from the rest, and 
having carded it with her fore-legs into a sort of felt 
or small bundle, she pushes it under her body to the 







* J. R. 






next bee, who passes it in the same manner to the 
next, and so on till it is brought to the border of the 
nest, — in the same way as we sometimes see sugar- 
loaves conveyed from a cart to a warehouse, by a file 
of porters throwing them from one to another. 




Fig. A represents two carder-bees heckling moss for their nests. 
B, exterior view of the nest of the carder-bee. 



The elevation of the dome, which is all built from 
the interior, is from four to six inches above the 
level of the field. Beside the moss or grass, they 
frequently employ coarse wax to form the ceiling of 
the vault, for the purpose of keeping out rain, and 



 



preventing high winds from destroying it. Before 
this finishing is given to the nest, we have re- 
marked, that on a fine sunshiny day, the upper 
portion of the dome was opened to the extent of 
more than an inch, in order, we suppose, to forward 
the hatching of the eggs in the interior ; but on the 
approach of night this was carefully covered in 
again. It was remarkable that the opening which 
we have just mentioned was never used by the bees 
for either their entrance or their exit from the nest, 
though they were all at work there, and, of course, 
would have found it the readiest and easiest passage. 
But they invariably made their exit and their entrance 
through the covert-way or gallery which opens at 
the bottom of the nest, and, in some nests, is about a 
foot long and half an inch wide. This is, no doubt, 
intended for concealment, from field-mice, polecats, 
wasps, and other depredators. 

On removing a portion of the dome and bringing 
the interior of the structure into view, we find little 
of the architectural regularity so conspicuous in the 
combs of a common bee-hive : instead of this sym- 
metry, there are only a few egg-shaped, dark-coloured 
cells, placed somewhat irregularly, but approaching 
more to the horizontal than to the vertical position, 
and connected together with small amorphous * 
columns of brown wax. Sometimes there are two or 
three of these oval cells placed one above another, 
without anything to unite them. 

These cells are not, however, the workmanship of 
the old bees, but of their young grubs, who spin 
them when they are about to change into nymphs. 
But, from these cases, when they are spun, the en- 
closed insects have no means of escaping, and they 
depend for their liberation on the old bees gnawing 



* Shapeless. 



 



off the covering’, as is done also by ants in the 
same circumstances. The instinct with which they 
know the precise time when it is proper to do this 
is truly wonderful. It is no less so, that these 
cocoons are by no means useless when thus un- 
tenanted, for they subsequently serve for honey-pots, 
and are indeed the only store-cells in the nest. For 
this purpose the edge of the cell is repaired and 
strengthened with a ring of wax. 




Breeding-Cells. 



The true breeding-cells are contained in several 
amorphous masses of brown-coloured wax, varying 
in dimensions, but of a somewhat flat and globular 
shape. On opening any of these, a number of eggs 
or ffrubs are found, on whose account the mother 
bee has collected the masses of wax, which also con- 
tain a supply of pollen moistened with honey, for 
their subsistence. 

The number of eggs or grubs found in one sphe- 
roid of wax varies from three to thirty, and the bees 
in a whole nest seldom exceed sixty. There are 
three sizes of bees, of which the females are the 
largest; but neither these nor the males are, as in 
the case of the hive-bee, exempt from labour. The 
females, indeed, always found the nests, since they 
alone survive the winter, all the rest perishing with 
cold. In each nest, also, are several females, that 
live in harmony together. 








Interior views of Carder-bee’s Nest. 



The carder-bees may be easily distinguished from 
their congeners (of the same genus), by being not 
unlike the colour of the withered moss with which 
they build their nests, having the fore part of their 
back a dull orange, and hinder part ringed with dif- 
ferent shades of greyish yellow. They are not so 
large as the common humble-bee ( Bombas terrestris, 
Latr.), but rather shorter and thicker in the body 
than the common hive-bee {Apis mellifica). 






*0 

> Lapidary-Bees. 

A bee still more common, perhaps, than the carder, 
is the orange-tailed bee, or lapidary ( Bombus lapi- 
daria), readily known by its general black colour and 
reddish orange tail. It builds its nest sometimes in 
stony ground, but prefers a heap of stones such as 
are gathered off grass fields, or are piled up near 
quarries. Unlike the carder, the lapidary carries to its 
nest bits of moss, which are very neatly arranged into 
a regular oval. These insects associate in their 
labours ; and they make honey with great industry. 
The individuals of a nest are more numerous than 
the carders, and likewise more pertinaciously vin- 
dictive. About two years ago, we discovered a nest 
of these bees at Compton-Basset, in Wiltshire, in the 
centre of a heap of limestone rubbish ; but owing 
to the brisk defensive warfare of their legionaries, 
we could not obtain a view of the interior. It was 
not even safe to approach within many yards of the 
place, and we do not exaggerate when we say that 
several of them pursued us most pertinaciously about 
a quarter of a mile *. 

Humble-Bees. 

The common humble-bee ( Bombus terrestris ) is 
precisely similar in its economy to the two preceding 
species, with this difference, that it forms its nest 
underground like the common wasp, in an excavated 
chamber, to which a winding passage leads, of from 
one to two feet, and of a diameter sufficient to allow 
of two bees passing. The cells have no covering 
beside the vault of the excavation and patches of 
coarse wax similar to that of the carder- bee. 



* J. R. 







Social-Wasps. 

The nest of the common wasp ( Vespa vulgaris) 
attracts more or less the attention of everybody ; but 
its interior architecture is not so well known as it 
deserves to be, for its singular ingenuity, in which it 
rivals even that of the hive-bee ( Apis mellifica). 
In their general economy, the social, or republican 
wasps, closely resemble the humble-bee ( Bombus ), 
every colony being founded by a single female who 
has survived the winter, to the rigours of which all 
her summer associates of males and working wasps 
uniformly fall victims. Nay, out of three hundred 
females which may be found in one vespiary, or 
wasp’s nest, towards the close of autumn, scarcely ten 
or a dozen survive till the ensuing spring, at which 
season they awake from their hybernal lethargy, and 
begin with ardour the labours of colonization. 

It may be interesting to follow one of these mo- 
ther wasps through her several operations, in which 
she merits more the praise of industry than the queen 
of a bee-hive, who does nothing, and never moves 
without a numerous train of obedient retainers, al- 
ways ready to execute her commands and to do her 
homage. The mother wasp, on the contrary, is at 
first alone, and is obliged to perform every species 
of drudgery herself. 

Her first care, after being roused to activity by the 
returning warmth of the season, is to discover a 
place suitable for her intended colony ; and, ac- 
cordingly, in the spring, wasps may be seen prying 
into every hole of a hedge bank, particularly where 
field-mice have burrowed. Some authors report 
that she is partial to the forsaken galleries of the 
mole, but this does not accord with our observations, 
as we have never met with a single vespiary in any 
situation likely to have been frequented by moles. 






But though we cannot assert the fact, we think it 
highly probable that the deserted nest of the field- 
mouse, which is not uncommon in hedge banks, may 
be sometimes appropriated by a mother wasp as an 
excavation convenient for her purpose. Yet, if she 
does make choice of the burrow of a field-mouse, it 
requires to be afterwards considerably enlarged in 
the interior chamber, and the entrance gallery very 
much narrowed. 

The desire of the wasp to save herself the labour 
of excavation, by forming her nest where other ani- 
mals have burrowed, is not without a parallel in the 
actions of quadrupeds, and even of birds. In the 
splendid continuation of Wilson’s American Orni- 
thology, by Charles L. Bonaparte (whose scientific 
pursuits have thrown round that name a beneficent 
lustre, pleasingly contrasted with his uncle’s glory), 
there is an interesting example of this instinctive 
adoption of the labours of others. “ In the trans- 
Mississippian territories of the United States, the 
burrowing-owl resides exclusively in the villages 
of the marmot, or prairie-dog, whose excavations 
are so commodious, as to render it unnecessary 
that the owl should dig for himself, as he is 
said to do where no burrowing animals exist'". 
The villages of the prairie-dog are very nume- 
rous and variable in their extent, — sometimes 
covering only a few acres, and at others spreading 
over the surface of the country for miles together. 
They are composed of slightly-elevated mounds, 
having the form of a truncated cone, about two feet 
in width at the base, and seldom rising as high as 
eighteen inches from the surface of the soil. The 

* The owl observed by Vieillot in St. Domingo digs itself a 
burrow two feet in depth, at the bottom of which it deposits its 
eggs upon a bed of moss. 







entrance is placed either at the top or on the side, 
and the whole mound is beaten down externally, 
especially at the summit, resembling a much-used 
footpath. From the entrance, the passage into the 
mound descends vertically for one or two feet, and 
is thence continued obliquely downwards until it ter- 
minates in an apartment, within which the industrious 
prairie-dog constructs, on the approach of cold 
weather, a comfortable cell for his winter’s sleep. 
The cell, which is composed of fine dry grass, is 
globular in form, with an opening at top, capable of 
admitting the finger ; and the whole is so firmly 
compacted, that it might, without injury, be rolled 
over the floor*.” 

In case of need the wasp is abundantly fur- 
nished by nature with instruments for excavating a 
burrow out of the solid ground, as she no doubt 
most commonly does, — digging the earth with her 
strong mandibles, and carrying it off or pushing it 
out as she proceeds. The entrance-gallery is about 
an inch or less in diameter, and usually runs in a 
winding or zigzag direction, from one to two feet in 
depth. In the chamber to which this gallery leads, 
and which, when completed, is from one to two feet 
in diameter, the mother wasp lays the foundations of 
her city, beginning with the walls. 

The building materials employed by wasps were 
long a matter of conjecture to scientific inquirers ; for 
the bluish-grey papery substance of the whole struc- 
ture has no resemblance to any sort of wax employed 
by bees for a similar purpose. Now that the discovery 
has been made, we can with difficulty bring our- 
selves to believe that a naturalist so acute and inde- 
fatigable as M. Reaumur should have, for twenty 
years, as he tells us, endeavoured, without success, 

* American Ornithology, by Charles Lucien Bonaparte. Vol. i. 
p. G9. 





to find out the secret. At length, however, his per- 
severance was rewarded. He remarked a female 
wasp alight on the sash of his window, and begin to 
gnaw the wood with her mandibles ; and it struck 
him at once that she was procuring materials for 
building. He saw her detach from the wood a 
bundle of fibres about a tenth of an inch in length, 
and finer than a hair ; and as she did not swallow 
these, but gathered them into a mass with her feet, 
he could not doubt that his first idea was correct. 
In a short time she shifted to another part of the 
window-frame, carrying with her the fibres she had 
collected, and to which she continued to add, when 
he caught her, in order to examine the nature of her 
bundle ; and he found that it was not yet moistened 
nor rolled into a ball, as is always done before em- 
ploying it in building. In every other respect it 
had precisely the same colour and fibrous texture 
as the walls of a vespiary. It struck him as remark- 
able that it bore no resemblance to wood gnawed 
by other insects, such as the goat-moth caterpillar, 
which is granular like sawdust. This would not 
have suited the design of the wasp, who was well 
aware that fibres of some length form a stronger 
texture. He even discovered, that before detaching 
the fibres, she bruised them ( les charpissoit) into a 
sort of lint ( charpie ) with her mandibles. All this 
the careful naturalist imitated by bruising and paring 
the same wood of the window-sash with his pen- knife, 
till he succeeded in making a little bundle of fibres 
scarcely to be distinguished from that collected by the 
wasp. 

We have ourselves frequently seen wasps em- 
ployed in procuring their materials in this manner, 
and have always observed that they shift from one 
part to another more than once in preparing a single 
load, — a circumstance which we ascribe entirely to 







the restless temper peculiar to the whole order of 
hymenopterous insects. Reaumur found that the 
wood which they preferred was such as had been 
long exposed to the weather, and is old and dry. 
White of Selborne, and Kirby and Spence, on the 
contrary, maintain that wasps obtain their paper 
from sound timber, hornets only from that which is 
decayed*. Our own observations, however, confirm 
the statement of Reaumur, with respect to wasps, as, 
in every instance which has fallen under our notice, 
the wood selected was very much weathered ; and in 
one case an old oak post in a garden at Lee, in 
Kent, half destroyed by dry-rot, was seemingly the 
resort of all the wasps in the vicinity. In another 
case, the deal bond in a brick wall, which had been 
built thirty years, is at this moment (June, 1829) 
literally striped with the gnawings of wasps, which 
we have watched at the work for hours together!*. 

The bundles of ligneous fibres thus detached, are 
moistened, before being used, with a glutinous liquid, 
which causes them to adhere together, and are then 
kneaded into a sort of paste, or papier mache. 
Having prepared some of this material, the mother 
wasp begins first to line with it the roof of her 
chamber, for wasps always build downwards. The 
round ball of fibres which she has previously kneaded 
up with glue, she now forms into a leaf, walking 
backwards, and spreading it out with her mandibles, 
her tongue, and her feet, till it is as thin almost as 
tissue paper. 

One sheet, however, of such paper as this would 
form but a fragile ceiling, quite insufficient to pre- 
vent the earth from falling down into the nest. The 
wasp, accordingly, is not satisfied with her work 

* Reaumur, vol. vi. bottom of page 182; Hist, of Selb. ii. 
228 ; and Inlrod. to Entomol. i. 504, 5th edition. 

f J. R. 







till she has spread fifteen or sixteen layers one above 
the other, rendering the wall altogether nearly two 
inches thick. The several layers are not placed in 
contact like the layers of a piece of pasteboard, but 
with small intervals or open spaces between, ap- 
pearing somewhat like a grotto built with bivalve 
shells, particularly when looked at on the outside. 
This is probably caused by the insect working in a 
curvilineal manner. 




Section of the Social-Wasp’s Nest.— a a, the external wall ; 
Z>, c c, five small terraces of cells lor the neuter wasps ; rfrf.ee, 
three rows of larger cells for the males and females. 



Having finished the ceiling, she next begins to 
build the first terrace of her city, which, under its 






protection, she suspends horizontally, and not like 
the combs in a bee-hive, in a perpendicular position. 
The suspension of which we speak is also light and 
elegant, compared with the more heavy union of the 
hive-bees’ combs. It is in fact a hanging floor, 
immoveably secured by rods of similar materials 
with the roof, but rather stronger. From twelve to 
thirty of these rods, about an inch or less in length, 
and a quarter of an inch in diameter, are constructed 

A B 



A, represents one of the rods f rom which the terraces are sus- 
pended. B, a portion of the external crust. 

for the suspension of the terrace. They are elegant 
in form, being made gradually narrower towards the 
middle, and widening at each end, in order, no doubt, 
to render their hold the stronger. 

The terrace itself is circular, and composed of an 
immense number of cells, formed of the paper al- 
ready described, and of almost the same size and 
form as those of a honey-comb, each being a perfect 
hexagon, mathematically exact, and every hair’s 
breadth of the space completely filled. These cells, 
however, are never used as honey-pots by wasps, as 
they are by bees ; for wasps make no honey, and 
the cells are wholly appropriated to the rearing of 
their young. Like other hymenopterous insects, the 
grubs are placed with their heads downwards; and 
the openings of the cells are also downwards : while 





their united bottoms form a nearly uniform level 
upon which the inhabitants of the nest may walk. 
We have seen, in describing 1 the economy of the 
carder-bee, that when a young bee had escaped from 
its cradle-cell, and so rendered it empty, that cell was 
subsequently appropriated to the storing of honey. 
But in the case of wasps, a cell thus evacuated is 
immediately cleaned out and repaired for the recep- 
tion of another grub — an egg being laid in it by a 
female wasp as soon as it is ready. 

When the foundress wasp has completed a certain 
number of cells, and deposited eggs in them, she 
soon intermits her building operations, in order to 
procure food for the young grubs, which now require 
all her care. In a few weeks these become perfect 
wasps, and lend their assistance in the extension of 
the edifice ; enlarging the original coping of the 
foundress by side walls, and forming another plat- 
form of cells, suspended to the first by columns, as 
that had been suspended to the ceiling. 

In this manner several platforms of combs are 
constructed, the outer walls being extended at the 
same time; and, by the end of the summer, there is 
generally from twelve to fifteen platforms of cells. 
Each contains about 10G0 cells — forty-nine being' 
contained in an inch and a half square, and, of course, 
making the enormous number of about 1G,000 cells 
in one colony. Reaumur, upon these data, calculates 
that one vespiary may produce every year more than 
30,000 wasps, reckoning only 10,000 cells, and each 
serving successively for the cradle of three genera- 
tions. But, although the whole structure is built at 
the expense of so much labour and ingenuity, it has 
scarcely been finished before the winter sets in, when 
it becomes nearly useless, and serves only for the 
abode of a few benumbed females, who abandon it 
on the approach of spring, and never return ; for 






wasps do not, like mason-bees, ever make use of the 
same nest for more than one season. 

Both Reaumur and the younger Huber studied 
the proceedings of the common wasp in the manner 
which has been so successful in observing bees — by 
means of glazed hives, and other contrivances. In 
this, these naturalists were greatly aided by the ex- 
treme affection of wasps for their young; for though 
their nest is carried off, or even cut in various direc- 
tions, and exposed to the light, they never desert it, 
nor relax their attention to their progeny. When a 
wasp’s nest is removed from its natural situation, and 
covered with a glass hive, the first operation of the 
inhabitants is to repair the injuries it has suffered. 
They carry off with surprising activity all the earth 
or other matters which have fallen by accident into 
the nest ; and when they have got it thoroughly 
cleared of everything extraneous, they begin to se- 
cure it from further derangement, by fixing it to the 
glass with papyraceous columns, similar to those 
which we have already described. The breaches 
which the nest may have suffered are then repaired, 
and the thickness of the walls is augmented, with 
the design, perhaps, of more effectually excluding 
the light. 

The nest of the hornet is nearly the same in struc- 
ture with that of the wasp ; but the materials are 
considerably coarser, and the columns to which the 
platforms of cells are suspended are larger and 
stronger, the middle one being twice as thick as any 
of the others. The hornet, also, does not build 
under ground, but in the cavities of trees, or in 
the thatch or under the eaves of barns. Reaumur 
once found upon a wall a hornet’s nest which had 
not been long begun, and had it transferred to the 
outside of his study window; but in consequence. 







as he imagined, of the absence of the foundress 
hornet at the time it was removed, he could not get 
the other five hornets, of which the colony consisted, 
either to add to the building or repair the damages 
which it had sustained. 




Hornet's Nest in its Jirst stage. 



M. Reaumur differs from our English naturalists, 
White, Kirby, and Spence, with respect to the ma- 
terials employed by the hornet for building. The 
latter say that it employs decayed wood ; the former, 
that it uses the bark of the ash-tree, but takes less 
pains to split it into fine fibres than wasps do ; not, 
however, because it is destitute of skill ; for in con- 
structing the suspensory columns of the platforms, a 
paste is prepared little inferior to that made by wasps. 
We cannot, from our own observations, decide which 





of the above statements is correct, as we have only 
once seen a hornet procuring' materials, at Compton- 
Bassett, in Wiltshire ; and in that case it g’nawecl the 
inner bark of an elm which had been felled for seve- 
ral months, and was, consequently, dry and tough. 
Such materials as this would account for the common 
yellowish-brown colour of a hornet’s nest*. 

When hornets make choice of a tree for their do- 
micile, they select one which is in a state of decay, 
and already partly hollowed : but they possess the 
means, in their sharp and strong mandibles, of ex- 
tending the excavation to suit their purposes ; and 
Reaumur frequently witnessed their operations in 
mining into a decayed tree, and carrying off* what 
they had gnawed. He observed, also, that in such 
cases they did not make use of the large hole of the 
tree for an entrance, but went to the- trouble of die;- 
ging a gallery, sufficient for the passage of the largest 
hornet in the nest, through the living and undecayed 
portion of the tree. As this is perforated in a wind- 
ing direction, it is no doubt intended for the purpose 
of protecting the nest from the intrusion of depre- 
dators, who could more easily effect an entrance if 
there were not such a tortuous Avay to pass through. 

One of the most remarkable of our native social- 
wasps is the Vespa britannica , or tree-wasp, which is 
not uncommon in the northern, but is seldom to be 
met with in the southern parts of the island. Instead 
of burrowing in the ground like the common wasp 
( Vespa vulgaris ), or in the hollows of trees like the 
hornet ( Vespa crabro ), it boldly swings its nest from 
the extremity of a branch, where it exhibits some 
resemblance, in size and colour, to a Welsh wig, 
hung out to dry. We have seen more than one of 
these nests on the some tree, at Catrine, in Ayrshire, 

* J. R. 







and at Wemyss Bay, in Renfrewshire. The tree 
which the Britannic wasp prefers is the silver fir, 
whose broad fiat branch serves as a protection to the 
suspended nest both from the sun and the rain. The 
materials and structure are nearly the same as those 
employed by the common wasp, and which we have 
already described*. 

A singular nest of a species of wasp is figured by 
Reaumur, but is apparently rare in this country, as 
Kirby and Spence mention only a single nest of similar 
construction, found in a garden at East-Dale. This 
nest is of a flattened globular figure, and composed 
of a great number of envelopes, so as to assume a 
considerable resemblance to a half-expanded Provence 
rose. The British specimen mentioned by Kirby and 
Spence had only one platform of cells ; Reaumur’s 
had two ; but there was a large vacant space, which 
would probably have been filled with cells, had the 
nest not been taken away as a specimen. The whole 




IF asp's Nest. 

* J. R. 






nest was not much larger than a rose, and was com- 
posed of paper exactly similar to that employed by 
the common ground- wasp. 

There is another species of social-wasp (Epipone 
nidulans, Latr.) meriting attention from the singu- 
lar construction of its nest. It forms one or more 
terraces of cells, similar to those of the common wasp, 
but without the protection of an outer wall, and quite 
exposed to the weather. Swammerdam found a nest 
of this description attached to the stem of a nettle. 
Reaumur says they are sometimes attached to the 
branch of a thorn or other shrub, or to stalks of grass ; 
— peculiarities which prove that there are several 
species of these wasps. 

The most remarkable circumstance in the arclii- 

» 




PFasp’f Cells attached to a branch* 








tecture of this species of vespiary is, that it is 
not horizontal, like those formerly described, but 
nearly vertical. The reason appears to be, that 
if it had been horizontal, the cells must have 
been frequently filled with rain ; whereas, in the 
position in which it is placed, the rain runs off 
without lodging. It is, besides, invariably placed 
so as to face the north or the east, and conse- 
quently is less exposed to rains, which most fre- 
quently come with southerly or westerly winds. It 
is another remarkable peculiarity, that unlike the nests 
of other wasps, it is covered with a shining coat of 
varnish, to prevent moisture from soaking into the 
texture of the wasp’s paper. The laying on this 
varnish, indeed, forms a considerable portion of the 
labour of the colony, and individuals may be seen 
employed for hours together spreading it on with 
their tongues. 

Few circumstances are more striking with regard 
to insects, as Kirby and Spence justly remark, than 
the great and incessant labour which maternal 
affection for their progeny leads them to undergo. 
Some of these exertions are so disproportionate to 
the size of the insect, that nothing short of ocular 
conviction could attribute them to such an agent. A 
wild bee, or a wasp, for instance, as we have seen, 
will dig a hole in a hard bank of earth some inches 
deep, and five or six times its own size, labouring un- 
remittingly at this arduous task for several days in 
succession, and scarcely allowing itself a moment for 
eating or repose. It will then occupy as much time 
in searching for a store of food ; and no sooner is 
this finished, than it will set about repeating the pro- 
cess, and before it dies, will have completed five or 
six similar cells, or even more. 

We shall have occasion more particularly to dwell 







upon the geometrical arrangement of the cells, both 
of the wasp and the social bee, in our description 
of those interesting operations, which have long at- 
tracted the notice, and commanded the admiration, 
of mathematicians and naturalists. A few observa- 
tions may here be properly bestowed upon the ma- 
terial with which the wasp-family construct the in- 
terior of their nests. 

The wasp is a paper-maker, and a most perfect 
and intelligent one. While mankind were arriving, 
by slow degrees, at the art of fabricating this valu- 
able substance, the wasp was making it before their 
eyes, by very much the same process as that by 
which human hands now manufacture it with the 
best aid of chemistry and machinery. While some 
nations carved their records on wood, and stone, and 
brass, and leaden tablets, — others, more advanced, 
wrote with a style on wax, — others employed the inner 
bark of trees, and others the skins of animals rudely 
prepared, — the wasp was manufacturing a firm and 
durable paper. Even when the papyrus was rendered 
more fit, by a process of art, for the transmission of 
ideas in writing, the wasp was a better artisan than 
the Egyptians ; for the early attempts at paper- 
making were so rude, that the substance produced 
Avas almost useless, from being extremely friable. 
The paper of the papyrus was formed of the leaves 
of the plant, dried, pressed, and polished; the wasp 
alone knew how to reduce vegetable fibres to a 
pulp, and then unite them by a size or glue, spread- 
ing the substance out into a smooth and delicate 
leaf. This is exactly the process of paper-making. 
It would seem that the wasp knows, as the modern 
paper-makers now know, that the fibres of rags, 
whether linen or cotton, are not the only materials 
that can be used in the formation of paper ; she em- 
ploys other vegetable matters, converting them into 

i 







a proper consistency by her assiduous exertions. In 
some respects she is more skilful even than our 
paper-makers, for she takes care to retain her fibres 
of sufficient length, by which she renders her paper 
as strong as she requires. Many manufacturers of 
the present day cut their material into small bits, and 
thus produce a rotten article. One great distinction 
between good and bad paper is its toughness ; and 
this difference is invariably produced by the fibre of 
which it is composed being long, and therefore tough ; 
or short, and therefore friable. 

The wasp has been labouring at her manufacture 
of paper, from her first creation, with precisely the 
same instruments and the same materials ; and her 
success has been unvarying. Her machinery is 
very simple, and therefore it is never out of order. 
She learns nothing, and she forgets nothing. Men, 
from time to time, lose their excellence in particular 
arts, and they are slow in finding out real improve- 
ments. Such improvements are often the effect of ac- 
cident. Paper is now manufactured very extensively 
by machinery, in all its stages ; and thus, instead of 
a single sheet being made by hand, a stream of paper 
is poured out, which would form a roll large enough 
to extend round the globe, if such a length were de- 
sirable. The inventors of this machinery, Messrs. 
Fourdrinier, it is said, spent the enormous sum 
of 40,000/. in vain attempts to render the machine 
capable of determining with precision the width of 
the roll ; and, at last, accomplished their object, 
at the suggestion of a bystander, by a strap re- 
volving upon an axis, at a cost of three shillings 
and sixpence. Such is the difference between the 
workings of human knowledge and experience, and 
those of animal instinct. We proceed slowly and in 
the dark — but our course is not bounded by a nar- 
row line, for it seems difficult to say what is the per- 







fection of any art; animals go clearly to a given 
point — but they can go no further. We may, how- 
ever, learn something from their perfect knowledge 
of what is within their range. It is not improbable 
that if man had attended in an earlier state of society 
to the labours of wasps, he would have sooner known 
how to make paper. We are still behind in our 
arts and sciences, because we have not always been 
observers. If we had watched the operations of in- 
sects, and the structure of animals in general, with 
more care, we might have been far advanced in the 
knowledge of many arts, which are yet in their in- 
fancy, for nature has given us abundance of patterns. 
We have learnt to perfect some instruments of sound, 
by examining the structure of the human ear ; and 
the mechanism of an eye has suggested some valu- 
able improvements in achromatic glasses. 



Reaumur has given a very interesting account of the 
wasps of Cayenne, which hang their nests in trees*. 
Like the bird of Africa called the Loxia, they fabricate 
a perfect house, capable of containing many hundreds 
of their community, and suspend it on high out of 
the reach of attack. But the Cayenne wasp is a 
more expert artist than the bird. He is a card- 
maker ; — and travellers of veracity agree that the 
card with which he forms the exterior covering of his 
abode is so smooth, so strong, so uniform in its 
texture, and so white, that the most skilful manu- 
facturer of this substance might be proud of the 
work. 

! The nest of the card-making wasp is impervious 
to water. It hangs upon the branch of a tree, as 
represented in the engraving ; and those rain-drops 






* Memoires sur les Insectes, tom vi., mem. vii. See also Bonnet, 
I vol. ix. 




 

which penetrate through the leaves never rest upon 
its hard and polished surface. A small opening for 
the entrance of the insects terminates its funnel- 
shaped bottom. It is impossible to unite more per- 
fectly the qualities of lightness and strength. 



Nest of the Card-maher IV asp, with part removed to shew the arrangement 

of the Cells. J 








Part of a honeycomb, and, bees at worli. 

Although the hive-bee (Apis mdlijica ) has engaged 
the attention of the curious from the earliest ages, 
recent discoveries prove that we are yet only begin- 
ning to arrive at a correct knowledge of its wonderful 
proceedings. Pliny informs us that Aristomachus, of 
Soles, in Cilicia, devoted fifty-eight years to the 
study ; and that Philiscus the Thracian spent his 
whole life in forests for the purpose of observing 
them. But in consequence (as we may naturally 
infer) of the imperfect methods of research, as- 





suming that what they did discover was known to 
Aristotle, Columella, and Pliny, we are justified in 
pronouncing the statements of these philosophers, as 
well as the embellished poetical pictures of Virgil, to 
be nothing more than conjecture, almost in every par- 
ticular erroneous. It was not indeed till 1712, when 
glass hives were invented by Maraldi, a mathema- 
tician of Nice, that w r hat we may call the in-door 
proceedings of bees could be observed. This im- 
portant invention was soon afterwards taken advan- 
tage of by M. Reaumur, who laid the foundation of 
the more recent discoveries of John Hunter, Schi- 
rach, and the Hubers. The admirable architecture 
which bees exhibit in their miniature cities has, by 
these and other naturalists, been investigated with 
great care and accuracy. We shall endeavour to 
give as full an account of their wonderful structures 
as our limits will allow. In this we shall chiefly 
follow M. Huber, the elder, whose researches appear 
almost miraculous when we consider that he was 
blind. 

At the early age of seventeen this remarkable man 
lost his sight by gutta serejia, “ the drop serene” of 
our own Milton. But, though cutoff from the sight of 
Nature’s works, he dedicated himself to their study. 
He saw them through the eyes of the admirable 
woman whom he married ; his philosophical reason- 
ings pointed out to her all that he wanted to ascer- 
tain ; and as she reported to him from time to time 
the results of his ingenious experiments, he was en- 
abled to complete, by diligent investigation, one 
of the most accurate and satisfactory accounts of 
the habits of bees which has ever been produced. 
This venerable naturalist is, we believe, still alive. 

It had long been known that the bees of a hive 
consist of three sorts, which were ascertained by 






M. Reaumur to be distinguished as workers or 
neuters, constituting the bulk of the population ; 
drones or males, the least numerous class ; and a sin- 
gle female, the queen and mother of the colony. Schi- 
rach subsequently discovered the very extraordinary 
fact, which Huber and others have proved beyond 
doubt, that when a hive is accidentally deprived of a 
queen, the grub of a worker can be and is fed in 
a particular manner, so as to become a queen and 
supply the loss*. But another discovery of M. Hu- 
ber is of more importance to the subject of archi- 
tecture now before us. By minute research he ascer- 
tained, that the workers, which had been considered 
by former naturalists to be all alike, are divided 
into two important classes, nurse-bees and wax- 
makers. 

The nurse-bees are rather smaller than the wax- 
workers, and even when gorged with honey their 
belly does not, as in the others, appear distended. 
Their business is to collect honey, and impart it to 
their companions ; to feed and take care of the young 
grubs, and to complete the combs and cells which 
have been founded by the others ; but they are not 
charged with provisioning the hive. 

The wax-workers on the other hand are not only 
a little larger, but their stomach, when gorged with 
honey, is capable of considerable distension, as M. 
Huber proved by repeated experiments. He also 
ascertained that neither of the species can alone 
fulfil all the functions shared among the workers of 
a hive. He painted those of each class with different 
colours, in order to study their proceedings, and their 
labours were not interchanged. In another expert- 

* It is right to remark that Huish and others have suggested 
that the grubs thus royalized may originally be misplaced queens ; 
yet this admission is not necessary, since Madlle. Jurine has 
proved, by dissection, the workers to be imperfect females. 







ment, after supplying a hive deprived of a queen with 
brood and pollen, he saw the nurse-bees quickly oc- 
cupied in the nutrition of the grubs, while those of 
the wax-working class neglected them. When hives 
are full of combs, the wax-workers disgorge their 
honey into the ordinary magazines, making no wax : 
but if they want a reservoir for its reception, and if 
their queen does not find cells ready made wherein 
to lay her eggs, they retain the honey in the stomach, 
and in twenty-four hours they produce wax. Then 
the labour of constructing combs begins. 

It might perhaps be supposed that, when the country 
does not afford honey, the wax-workers consume 
the provision stored up in the hive. But they are 
not permitted to touch it. A portion of honey is 
carefully preserved, and the cells containing it are 
protected by a waxen covering, which is never re- 
moved except in case of extreme necessity, and 
when honey is not to be otherwise procured. The 
cells are at no time opened during summer ; 
other reservoirs, always exposed, contribute to the 
daily use of the community ; each bee, however, sup- 
plying itself from them with nothing but what is 
required for present wants. Wax- workers appear 

with large bellies at the entrance of their hive, only 
when the country affords a copious collection of 
honey. From this it may be concluded, that the 
production of the waxy matter depends on a concur- 
rence of circumstances not invariably subsisting. 
Nurse-bees also produce wax, but in a very inferior 
quantity to what is elaborated by the real wax-workers. 
Another characteristic whereby an attentive observer 
can determine the moment of bees collecting sufficient 
honey to produce wax, is the strong odour of both 
these substances from the hive, which is not equally 
intense at any other time. From such data, it was 
easy for M. Huber to discover whether the bees 







worked in wax in his own hives, and in those of the 
other cultivators of the district. 

There is still another sort of bees, first observed by 
Huber in 1809, which appear to be only casual in- 
mates of the hive, and which are driven forth to 
starve, or are killed in conflict. They closely resem- 
ble the ordinary workers, but are less hairy, and of 
a much darker colour. These have been called 
black bees , and are supposed by Huber to be defec- 
tive bees * ; but Kirby and Spence conjecture that 
they are toil-worn superannuated workers, of no 
farther use, and are therefore sacrificed, because bur- 
densome to a community which tolerates no un- 
necessary inmates. The very great numbers of 
black bees, however, which sometimes appear, does 
not well accord with such an opinion. The subject 
remains, therefore, still in uncertainty. 



Preparation of Wax. 

In order to build the beautiful combs, which every 
one must have repeatedly seen and admired, it is 
indispensable that the architect-bees should be pro- 
vided with the materials — with the wax, in short, of 
which they are principally formed. Before we follow 
them, therefore, to the operation of building, it may 
be necessary to inquire how the wax itself is pro- 
cured. Here the discoveries of recent inquirers have 
been little less singular and unexpected than in other 
departments of the history of these extraordinary in- 
sects. Now that it has been proved that wax is 
secreted by bees, it is not a little amusing to read 
the accounts given by our elder naturalists, of 
its being collected from flowers. Our countryman, 



* Huber on Bees, p. 338, 







Thorley *, appears to have been the first who suspected 
the true origin of wax, and Wildman (1769) seems 
also to have been aware of it ; but Reaumur, and 
particularly Bonnet, though both of them in general 
shrewd and accurate observers, were partially de- 
ceived by appearances. 

The bees, we are erroneously told, search for wax 
“ upon all sorts of trees and plants, but especially 
the rocket, the single poppy, and in general all kinds 
of flowers. They amass it with their hair, with 
which their whole body is invested. It is something 
pleasant to see them roll in the yellow dust which 
falls from the chives to the bottom of the flowers, 
and then return covered with the same grains ; but 
their best method of gathering the wax, especially 
when it is not very plentiful, is to carry away all the 
little particles of it with their jaws and fore feet, to 
press the wax upon them into little pellets, and slide 
them, one at a time, with their middle feet, into a 
socket or cavity, that opens at their hinder feet, and 
serves to keep the burden fixed and steady till they 
return home. They are sometimes exposed to incon- 
veniences in this work by the motion of the air, and 
the delicate texture of the flowers which bend under 
their feet, and hinder them from packing up their 
booty, on which occasions they fix themselves in some 
steady place, where they press the wax into a mass, 
and wind it round their legs, making frequent re- 
turns to the flowers; and when they have stocked 
themselves with a sufficient quantity, they imme- 
diately repair to their habitation. Two men, in the 
compass of a whole day, could not amass so much 
as two little balls of wax ; and yet they are no more 
than the common burthen of a single bee, and the 
produce of one journey. Those who are employed 



* Melisselogia, or Fe nale Monarc'iy, 8vo., Lond. 1744. 







in collecting* the wax from flowers are assisted by 
their companions, who attend them at the door of 
the hive, ease them of their load at their arrival, 
brush their feet, and shake out the two balls of wax ; 
upon which the others return to the fields to gather 
new treasure, whilst those who disburthened them 
convey their charge to the magazine. But some bees, 
again, when they have brought their load home, 
carry it themselves to the lodge, and there deliver it, 
laying hold of one end by their hinder feet, and with 
their middle feet sliding it out of the cavity that con- 
tained it ; but this is evidently a work of supereroga- 
tion which they are not obliged to perform. The 
packets of wax continue a few moments in the lodge, 
till a set of officers come, who are charged with a 
third commission, which is to knead this wax with 
their feet, and spread it out into different sheets, laid 
one above another. This is the unwrought wax, 
which is easily distinguished to be the produce of 
different flowers, by the variety of colours that appear 
i on each sheet. When they afterwards come to work, 
they knead it over again, they purify and whiten, 
and then reduce it to a uniform colour. They use 
this wax with a wonderful frugality ; for it is easy to 
observe that the whole family is conducted by pm 
dence, and all their actions regulated by good go- 
vernment. Everything is granted to necessity, but 
nothing to superfluity ; not the least grain of wax is 
neglected, and if they waste it, they are frequently 
obliged to provide more ; at those very times when 
they want to get their provision of honey, they take 
off the wax that closed the cells, and carry it to the 
magazine 

Reaumur hesitated in believing that this was a 

* Pluche, Spectacle de la Nature, vol. i. 




correct view of the subject, from observing the great 
difference between wax and pollen ; but he was in- 
clined to think the pollen might be swallowed, par- 
tially digested, and disgorged in the form of a 
kind of paste. Schirach also mentions, that it was 
remarked by a certain Lusatian, that wax comes 
from the rings of the body, because, on withdrawing 
a bee while it is at work, and extending its body, the 
wax may be seen there in the form of scales. 

The celebrated John Hunter shrewdly remarked 
that the pellets of pollen seen on the thighs of bees 
are of different colours on different bees, while the 
shade of the new-made comb is always uniform ; and 
therefore he concluded that pollen was not the origin 
of wax. Pollen also, he observed, is collected with 
greater avidity for old hives, where the comb is com- 
plete, than for those where it is only begun, which 
would hardly be the case were it the material of 
wax. He found that when the weather was cold 
and wet in June, so that a young swarm was pre- 
vented from going abroad, as much comb was con- 
structed as had been made in an equal time when the 
weather was favourable and fine. 

The pellets of pbllen on the thighs being thence 
proved not to be wax, he came to the conclu- 
sion that it was an external secretion originating 
between the plates of the belly. When he first ob- 
served this, he felt not a little embarrassed to explain 
the phenomenon, and doubted whether new plates 
were forming, or whether bees cast the old ones as 
lobsters do their shells. By melting the scales, he 
ascertained at least that they were wax ; and his opinion 
was confirmed by the fact, that the scales are only to 
be found during the season when the combs are con- 
structed. But he did not succeed in completing the 
discovery by observing the bees actually detach the 







scales, though he conjectured they might be taken 
up by others, if they were once shaken out from 
between the rings 

We need not be so much surprised at mistakes 
committed upon this subject, when we recollect that 
honey itself was believed by the ancients to be an 
emanation of the air — a dew that descended upon 
flowers, as if it had a limited commission to fall 
only on them. The exposure and correction of error 
is one of the first steps to genuine knowledge ; and 
when we are aware of the stumbling-blocks which 
have interrupted the progress of others, we can 
always travel more securely in the way of truth. 

That wax is secreted, is proved both by the wax 
pouches within the rings of the abdomen, and by 
actual experiment f. Huber and others fed bees 
entirely upon honey or sugar, and, notwithstanding, 
wax was produced and combs formed as if they had 
been at liberty to select their food. “ When bees 
were confined,” says M. Huber, “ for the purpose of 
discovering whether honey was sufficient for the 
production of wax, they supported their captivity 
patiently, and showed uncommon perseverance in 
rebuilding their combs as we removed them. 
Our experiments required the presence of grubs ; 
honey and water had to be provided ; the bees 
were to be supplied with combs containing brood, 
and at the same time it was necessary to con- 
fine them, that they might not seek pollen abroad. 
Having a swarm by chance, which had become use- 
less from sterility of the queen, we devoted it for 
our investigation in one of my leaf hives, which was 
glazed on both sides. We removed the queen, and 
substituted combs containing eggs and young grubs, 
but no cell with farina ; even the smallest particle of 

* Philosophical Trans, for 1792, p, 143, f See p. 103. 

K 







the substance which John Hunter conjectured to be 
the basis of the nutriment of the young, was taken 
away. 

“ Nothing remarkable occurred during the first and 
second day : the bees brooded over the young, and 
seemed to take an interest in them ; but at sunset, 
on the third, a loud noise was heard in the hive. 
Impatient to discover the reason, we opened a shut- 
ter, and saw all in confusion; the brood was aban- 
doned ; the workers ran in disorder over the combs ; 
thousands rushed towards the lower part of the hive ; 
and those about the entrance gnawed at its grating. 
Their design was not equivocal ; they wished to quit 
their prison. Some imperious necessity evidently 
obliged them to seek elsewhere what they could not 
find in the hive ; and apprehensive that they might 
perish if I restrained them longer from yielding to 
their instinct, I set them at liberty. The whole 
swarm escaped ; but the hour being unfavourable 
for their collections, they flew around the hive, and 
did not depart far from it. Increasing darkness and 
the coolness of the air compelled them very soon to 
return. Probably these circumstances calmed their 
agitation ; for we observed them peaceably remounting 
their combs ; order seemed re-established, and we 
took advantage of this moment to close the hive. 

“ Next day, the 19th of July, we saw the rudiments 
of two royal cells, which the bees had formed on one 
of the brood combs. This evening, at the same hour 
as on the preceding, we again heard a loud buzzing 
in the closed hive ; agitation and disorder rose to the 
highest degree, and we were again obliged to let the 
swarm escape. The bees did not remain long absent 
from their habitation ; they quieted and returned as 
before. We remarked on the 20th, that the royal 
cells had not been continued, as would have been the 
case in the ordinary state of things. A great tumult 







took place in the evening ; the bees appeared to be in 
a delirium ; we set them at liberty, and order was 
restored on their return. Their captivity having 
endured five days, we thought it needless to protract 
it farther ; besides, we were desirous of knowing, 
whether the brood was in a suitable condition, and if 
it had made the usual progress ; and we wished also 
to try to discover what might be the cause of the 
periodical agitation of the bees. M. Burnens, (the 
assistant of Huber) having exposed the two brood 
combs, the royal cells were immediately recognized ; 
but it was obvious that they had not been enlarged. 
Why should they? Neither eggs, grubs, nor that 
kind of paste peculiar to the individuals of their 
species were there ! The other cells were vacant like- 
wise ; no brood, not an atom of paste was in them. 
Thus, the worms had died of hunger. Had we pre- 
cluded the bees from all means of sustenance by 
removing the farina? To decide this point, it was 
necessary to confide other brood to the care of the 
same insects, now giving them abundance of pollen. 
They had not been enabled to make any collections 
while we examined their combs. On this occasion 
they escaped in an apartment where the windows 
were shut ; and after substituting young worms for 
those they had allowed to perish, we returned them 
to their prison. Next day we remarked that they had 
resumed courage ; they had consolidated the combs, 
and remained on the brood. They were then provided 
with fragments of combs, where other workers had 
stored up farina; and to be able to observe what they 
did with it, we took this substance from some of their 
cells, and spread it on the board of the hive. The 
bees soon discovered both the farina in the combs 
and what we had exposed to them. They crowded to 
the cells, and also descending to the bottom of the 
hives, took the pollen grain by grain in their teeth, 





and conveyed it to their mouths. Those that had 
eaten it most greedily, mounted the combs before the 
rest, and stopping on the cells of the young worms, 
inserted their heads, and remained there for a certain 
time. M. Burnens opened one of the divisions of 
the hive gently, and powdered the workers, for the 
purpose of recognizing them when they should 
ascend the combs. He observed them during several 
hours, and by this means ascertained that they took 
so great a quantity of pollen only to impart it to 
their young. Then withdrawing the portions of 
comb which had been placed by us on the board of 
the hive, we saw that the pollen had been sensibly 
diminished in quantity. They were returned to 
the bees, to augment their provision still farther, for 
the purpose of extending the experiment. The 
royal, as well as several common cells were soon 
closed ; and, on opening the hive, all the worms were 
found to have prospered. Some still had their food 
before them ; the cells of others that had spun were 
shut with a waxen covering. 

“ We witnessed these facts repeatedly, and always 
with equal interest. They so decisively prove the 
regard of the bees towards the grubs which they are 
entrusted with rearing, that we shall not seek for 
any other explanation of their conduct. Another 
fact, no less extraordinary, and much more difficult 
to be accounted for, was exhibited by bees constrained 
to work in wax, several times successively, from the 
syrup of sugar. Towards the close of the experiment 
they ceased to feed the young, though in the begin- 
ning these had received the usual attention. They 
even frequently dragged them from their cells, and 
carried them out of the hive 

Mr. Wiston, of Germantown, in the United States, 



* Huber on Bees. 






mentions a fact conclusive on this subject. “ I had,” 
says he, “ a late swarm last summer, which, in con- 
sequence of the drought, filled only one box with 
honey. As it was late in the season, and the food 
collected would not enable the bees to subsist for 
the winter, I shut up the hive, and gave them half 
a pint of honey every day. They immediately set to 
work, filled the empty cells, and then constructed 
new cells enough to fill another box, in which they 
deposited the remainder of the honey.” 

A more interesting proof is thus related by the 
same gentleman. “ In the summer of 1824, 1 traced 
some wild bees, which had been feeding on the 
flowers in my meadow, to their home in the woods, 
and which I found in the body of an oak tree, exactly 
fifty feet above the ground. Having caused the 
entrance to the hive to be closed by an expert climber, 
the limbs were separated in detail, until the trunk 
alone was left standing. To the upper extremity of 
this, a tackle-fall was attached, so as to connect it 
with an adjacent tree, and, a saw being applied be- 
low, the naked trunk was cut through. When the 
immense weight was lowered nearly to the earth, the 
ropes broke, and the mass fell with a violent crash. 
The part of the tree which contained the hive, sepa- 
rated by the saw, was conveyed to my garden, and 
placed in a vertical position. On being released, the 
bees issued out by thousands, and though alarmed, 
soon became reconciled to the change of situation. 
By removing a part of the top of the block, the inte- 
rior of the hive was exposed to view, and the comb 
itself, nearly six feet in height, was observed to have 
fallen down two feet below the roof of the cavity. 
To repair the damage was the first object of the 
labourers ; in doing which, a large part of their store 
of honey was expended, because it was at too late a 
season to obtain materials from abroad. In the fol- 





lowing 1 February, these industrious, but unfortunate 
insects, issuing in a confused manner from the hive, 
fell dead in thousands, around its entrance, the 
victims of a poverty created by their efforts to repair 
the ruins of their habitation*.’ ’ 

In another experiment, M. Huber confined a 
swarm so that they had access to nothing beside 
honey, and five times successively removed the 
combs with the precaution of preventing the escape 
of the bees from the apartment. On each occasion 
they produced new combs, which puts it beyond dis- 
pute that honey is sufficient to effect the secretion of 
wax without the aid of pollen. Instead of supplying 
the bees with honey, they were subsequently fed, 
exclusively, on pollen and fruit ; but though they 
were kept in captivity for eight days under a bell- 
glass, with a comb containing nothing but farina, 
they neither made wax, nor was any secreted under the 
rings. In another series of experiments, in which bees 
were fed with different sorts of sugar, it was found 
that nearly one-sixth of the sugar was converted into 
wax, dark coloured sugar yielding more than double 
the quantity of refined sugar. 

It may not be out of place to subjoin the few 
anatomical and physiological facts which have been 
ascertained by Huber, Madlle. J urine, and Latreille. 

The first stomach of the worker-bee, according to 
Latreillet, is appropriated to the reception of honey, 
but this is never found in the second stomach, which 
is surrounded with muscular rings, and from one 
end to the other very much resembles a cask covered 
with hoops. It is within these rings that the wax is 
produced, but the secreting vessels for this purpose 
have hitherto escaped the researches of the acutest 

* American Quarterly Review for June, 1828, p. 382. 
f Latreille, Mem. Acad, des Sciences, 1821. 






naturalists. Huber, however, plausibly enough conjec- 
tures that they are contained in the internal linin O' of 
the wax pockets, which consists of a cellular substance 
reticulated with hexagons. The wax pockets them- 
selves, which are concealed by the over-lapping of the 
rings, may be seen by pressing the abdomen of a 
worker-bee so as to lengthen it, and separate the rings 
further from each other. When this has been done, 
there may be seen on each of the four intermediate 
hoops of the belly, and separated by what may be 
called the keel ( carina ), two whitish-coloured 
pouches, of a soft texture, and in the form of a 
trapezium. Within, the little scales or plates of wax 




JForher-bee . magnified — showing the position of the scales of Wax. 

are produced from time to time, and are removed and 
employed as we shall presently see. We may remark 
that it is chiefly the wax-workers which produce the 
wax, for though the nurse-bees are furnished with 
wax pockets, they secrete it only in very small quan- 
tities, while in the queen bee, and the males or drones, 
no pockets are discoverable. 







Abdomen of Queen Bee. 



“ All the scales,” says Huber, “are not alike in 
every bee, for a difference is perceptible in consist- 
ence, shape, and thickness ; some are so thin and 
transparent, as to require a magnifier to be recog- 
nised, or we have been able to discover nothing but 
spiculae similar to those of water freezing. Neither the 
spiculse nor the scales rest immediately on the mem- 
brane of the pocket, a slight liquid medium is inter- 
posed, serving to lubricate the joinings of the rings, 
or to render the extraction of the scales easier, as 
otherwise they might adhere too firmly to the sides 
of the pockets.” M. Huber has seen the scales so 
large as to project beyond the rings, being visible 
without stretching the segments, and of a whitish- 
yellow, from greater thickness lessening their trans- 
parency. These shades of difference in the scales of 
various bees, their enlarged dimensions, the fluid in- 
terposed beneath them, the correspondence between 
the scale, and the size and form of the pockets, seem 
to infer the oozing of this substance through the mem- 






branes whereon it is moulded. He was confirmed 
in this opinion by the escape of a transparent fluid, 
on piercing the membrane, whose internal surface 
seemed to be applied to the soft parts of the belly. 
This he found coagulated in cooling, when it re- 
sembled wax, and again liquefied on exposure to heat. 
The scales themselves, also, melted and coagulated 
like wax *. 

By chemical analysis, however, it appears that the 
wax of the rings is a more simple substance than that 
which composes the cells ; for the latter is soluble 
in ether, and in spirit of turpentine, while the former 
is insoluble in ether, and but partially soluble in spirit 
of turpentine. It should seem to follow, that if the 
substance found lying under the rings be really the 
elements of wax, it undergoes some subsequent pre- 
paration after it is detached ; and that the bees, in 
short, are capable of impregnating it with matter, 
imparting to it whiteness and ductility, whereas in its 
unprepared state it is only fusible. 

Propolis. 

Wax is not the only material employed by bees in 
their architecture. Beside this, they make use of a 
brown, odoriferous, resinous substance, called pro - 
jJolis t, more tenacious and extensible than wax, and 
well adapted for cementing and varnishing. It was 
strongly suspected by Reaumur, that the bees collect- 
ed the propolis from those trees which are known to 
produce a similar gummy resin, such as the poplar, 
the birch, and the willow ; but he was thrown into 
doubt by not being able to detect the bees in the 
act of procuring it, and by observing them to collect 

* Huber on Bees, p. 325. 

t From two Greek words ?ro\is, meaning before the city , as 
the substance is principally applied to the projecting parts of the 
hive. 



 



it where none of those trees, nor any other of the 
same description, grew. His bees also refused to 
make use of bitumen, and other resinous substances, 
with which he supplied them, though Mr. Knight, as 
we shall afterwards see, was more successful *. 

Long before the time of Reaumur, however, Mouf- 
fet, in his Tnsectarum Theatrum, quotes Cordus for 
the opinion, that propolis is collected from the buds 
of trees, such as the poplar and birch ; and Reim 
says it is collected from the pine and firf. Huber 
at length set the question at rest ; and his experi- 
ments and observations are so interesting, that we 
shall give them in his own words : — • 

“ For many years,” says he, “I had fruitlessly en- 
deavoured to find them on trees producing an ana- 
logous substance, though multitudes had been seen 
returning; laden with it. 

“ In July, some branches of the wild poplar, which 
had been cut since spring, with very large buds, full 
of a reddish, viscous, odoriferous matter, were brought 
to me, and I planted them in vessels before hives, in 
the way of the bees going out to forage, so that they 
could not be insensible of their presence. Within a 
quarter of an hour, they were visited by a bee, which 
separating the sheath of a bud with its teeth, drew 
out threads of the viscous substance, and lodged a 
pellet of it in one of the baskets of its limbs : from 
another bud it collected another pellet for the oppo- 
site limb, and departed to the hive. A second bee 
took the place of the former in a few minutes, fol- 
lowing the same procedure. Young shoots of poplar, 
recently cut, did not seem to attract these insects, as 
their viscous matter had less consistence than the 
former |. 

* Phil. Trans, for 1807, p. 242. 
f Schirach, Hist, des Abeilles, p. 241. 

X I' irby and Spence observed bees very busy in collecting 







“ Different experiments proved the identity of this 
substance with propolis ; and now, having only to 
discover how the bees applied it to use, we peopled 
a hive, so prepared as to fulfil our views. The bees, 
building upwards, soon reached the glass above ; 
but, unable to quit their habitation, on account 
of rain, they were three weeks without bringing- 
home propolis. Their combs remained perfectly 
white until the beginning of July, when the state of 
the atmosphere became more favourable for our ob- 
servations. Serene warm weather engaged them to 
forage, and they returned from the fields laden with 
a resinous gum, resembling a transparent jelly, and 
having the colour and lustre of the garnet. It was 
easily distinguished from the farinaceous pellets then 
collected by other bees. The workers bearing the 
propolis ran over the clusters suspended from the 
roof of the hive, and rested on the rods supporting 
the combs, or sometimes stopped on the sides of their 
dwelling, in expectation of their companions coming 
to disencumber them of their burden. We actually 
saw two or three arrive, and carry the propolis from 
off the limbs of each with their teeth. The upper 
part of the hive exhibited the most animated spec- 
tacle : thither a multitude of bees resorted from all 
quarters, to engage in the predominant occupation 
of the collection, distribution, and application of the 
propolis. Some conveyed that of which they had 
unloaded the purveyors in their teeth, and deposited 
it in heaps ; others hastened, before its hardening, to 
spread it out like a varnish, or formed it into strings, 
proportioned to the interstices of the sides of the 
hive to be filled up. Nothing could be more diver- 
sified than the operations carried on. 

“ The bees, apparently charged with applying the 

propolis from the tacamahaca tree ( Populus balsamifera ).— 
Introd., ii, 186, 



. 



propolis within the cells, were easily distinguished 
from the multitude of workers, by the direction of 
their heads towards the horizontal pane forming the 
roof of the hive, and on reaching it, they deposited 
their burden nearly in the middle of intervals sepa- 
rating the combs : then they conveyed the propolis 
to the real place of its destination. They suspended 
themselves by the claws of the hind legs to points of 
support, afforded by the viscosity of the propolis on 
the glass ; and, as it were, swinging themselves back- 
wards and forwards, brought the heap of this substance 
nearer to the cells at each impulse. Here the bees em- 
ployed their fore feet, which remained free, to sweep 
what the teeth had detached, and to unite the frag- 
ments scattered over the glass, which recovered all 
its transparency when the whole propolis was brought 
to the vicinity of the cells. 

“ After some of the bees had smoothed down and 
cleaned out the glazed cells, feeling the way with 
their antennae, one desisted, and having approached 
a heap of propolis, drew out a thread with its teeth. 
This being broken off, it was taken in the claws of the 
fore feet, and the bee, re-entering the cell, imme- 
diately placed it in the angle of two portions that 
had been smoothed, in which operation the fore feet 
and teeth were used alternately ; but probably proving 
too clumsy, the thread was reduced and polished ; 
and we admired the accuracy with which it was ad- 
justed when the work was completed. The insect 
did not stop here : returning to the cell, it prepared 
other parts of it to receive a second thread, for which 
we did not doubt that the heap would be resorted to. 
Contrary to our expectation, however, it availed 
itself of the portion of the thread cut off on the 
former occasion, arranged it in the appointed place, 
and gave it all the solidity and finish of which it was 
susceptible. Other bees concluded the work which 
the first had begun ; and the sides of the cells were 







speedily secured with threads of propolis, while some 
were also put on the orifices ; but we could not seize 
the moment when they were varnished, though it 
may be easily conceived how it is done * ” 

This is not the only use to w'hich bees apply the 
propolis. They are extremely solicitous to remove 
such insects or foreign bodies as happen to get ad- 
mission into the hive. When so light as not to 
exceed their powers, they first kill the insect with 
their stings, and then drag it out with their teeth. 
But it sometimes happens, as was first observed by 
Maraldi, and since by Reaumur and others, that an 
ill-fated snail creeps into the hive : this is no sooner 
perceived than it is attacked on all sides, and stung 
to death. But how are the bees to carry out so 
heavy a burthen? Such a labour would be in vain. 
To prevent the noxious smell which would arise from 
its putrefaction, they immediately embalm it, by co- 
vering every part of its body with propolis, through 
which no effluvia can escape. When a snail with a 
shell gets entrance, to dispose of it gives much less 
trouble and expense to the bees. As soon as it re- 
ceives the first wound from a sting, it naturally 
retires within its shell. In this case, the bees, instead 
of pasting it all over with propolis, content them- 
selves with gluing all round the margin of the shell, 
which is sufficient to render the animal for ever im- 
movably fixed. 

Mr. Knight, the learned and ingenious President of 
the Horticultural Society, discovered by accident an 
artificial substance, more attractive than any of the 
resins experimentally tried by Reaumur. Having 
caused the decorticated part of a tree to be covered 
with a cement, composed of bees’- wax and turpentine, 
he observed that this w'as frequented by hive-bees, 
wffio, finding it to be a very good propolis ready made, 
* Huber on Bees, p. 408. 



detached it from the tree by their mandibles, and 
then, as usual, passed it from the first leg to the 
second, and so on. When one bee had thus collected 
its load, another often came behind and despoiled 
it of all it had collected ; a second and a third load 
were frequently lost in the same manner ; and yet 
the patient insect pursued its operations without 
manifesting any signs of anger *. Probably the 
latter circumstance, at which Mr. Knight seems to 
have been surprised, was nothing more than an instance 
of the division of labour so strikingly exemplified in 
every part of the economy of bees. 

It may not be out of place here to describe the 
apparatus with which the worker-bees are provided 
for the purpose of carrying the propolis as well as 
the pollen of flowers to the hive, and which has just 
been alluded to in the observations of Mr. Knight. 
The shin or middle portion of the hind pair of legs is 
actually formed into a triangular basket, admirably 
adapted to this design. The bottom of this basket 




Structure of the legs of the Bee for carrying propolis and pollen, magnijied. 
* Philosophical Trans, for 1807, p. 242. 







is composed of a smooth, shining, horn-like sub- 
stance, hollowed out in the substance of the limb, 
and surrounded with a margin of strong and thickly- 
set bristles. Whatever materials, therefore, may be 
placed by the bee in the interior of this basket, are 
secured from falling out by the bristles around it, 
whose elasticity will even allow the load to be heaped 
beyond their points without letting it fall. 

In the case of propolis, when the bee is loading 
her singular basket, she first kneads the piece she 
has detached with her mandibles, till it becomes 
somewhat dry and less adhesive, as otherwise it would 
stick to her limbs. This preliminary process some- 
times occupies nearly half an hour. She then passes 
it backwards by means of her feet to the cavity of her 
basket, giving it two or three pats to make it adhere; 
and when she adds a second portion to the first, she 
often finds it necessary to pat it still harder. When 
she has procured as much as the basket will conve- 
niently hold, she flies off with it to the hive. 

The Building of the Cells. 

The notion commonly entertained respecting glass 
hives is altogether erroneous. Those who are un- 
acquainted with bees imagine, that, by means of a 
glass hive, all their proceedings may be easily watched 
and recorded ; but it is to be remembered that bees 
are exceedingly averse to the intrusion of light, and 
their first operation in such cases is to close up every 
chink by which light can enter to disturb them, 
either by clustering together, or by a plaster com- 
posed of propolis. It consequently requires con- 
siderable management and ingenuity, even with the 
aid of a glass hive, to see them actually at work. 
M. Huber employed a hive with leaves, which opened 
in the manner of a book ; and for some purposes he 





used a glass box, inserted in the body of the hive, 
but easily brought into view by means of screws. 

But no invention hitherto contrived is sufficient to 
obviate every difficulty. The bees are so eager to 
afford mutual assistance, and for this purpose so 
many of them crowd together in rapid succession, 
that the operations of individuals can seldom be 
traced. Though this crowding, however, appears 
to an observer to be not a little confused, it is all 
regulated with admirable order, as has been ascer- 
tained by Reaumur and other distinguished natu- 
ralists. 

When bees begin to build the hive, they divide 
themselves into bands, one of which produces mate- 
rials for the structure; another works upon these, and 
forms them into a rough sketch of the dimensions and 
partitions of the cells. All this is completed by the 
second band, who examine and adjust the angles, re- 
move the superfluous wax, and give the work its ne- 
cessary perfection ; and a third band brings provi- 
sions to the labourers, who cannot leave their work. 
But no distribution of food is made to those whose 
charge, in collecting propolis and pollen, calls them 
to the field, because it is supposed they will hardly 
forget themselves ; neither is any allowance made to 
those who begin the architecture of the cells. Their 
province is very troublesome, because they are obliged 
to level and extend, as well as cut and adjust the wax 
to the dimensions required ; but then they soon ob- 
tain a dismission from this labour, and retire to the 
fields to regale themselves with food, and wear otf 
their fatigue with a more agreeable employment. 
Those who succeed them, draw their mouth, their 
feet, and the extremity of their body, several times 
over all the work, and never desist till the whole is 
polished and completed; and as they frequently need 
refreshments, and yet are not permitted to retire. 







there are waiters always attending 1 , who serve them 
with provisions when they require them. The labourer 
who has an appetite, bends down his trunk before the 
caterer, to intimate that he has an inclination to eat, 
upon which the other opens his bag of honey, and 
pours out a few drops ; these may be distinctly seen 
rolling through the whole of his trunk, which in- 
sensibly swells in every part the liquor flows through. 
When this little repast is over, the labourer returns to 
his work, and his body and feet repeat the same mo- 
tions as before*. 

Before they can commence building, however* 
when a colony or swarm migrates from the original 
hive to a new situation, it is necessary first to collect 
propolis, with which every chink and cranny in the 
place where they mean to build may be carefully 
stopped up ; and secondly that a quantity of wax be 
secreted by the wax-workers to form the requisite 
cells. The secretion of wax, it would appear, goes 
on best when the bees are in a state of repose ; and 
the wax-workers, accordingly, suspend themselves 
in the interior in an extended cluster, like a curtain 
which is composed of a series of intertwined festoons 
or garlands, crossing each other in all directions, — 
the uppermost bee maintaining its position by laying 
hold of the roof with its fore-legs, and the succeeding 
one by laying hold of the hind legs of the first. 

“ A person,” says Reaumur, “ mus't have been 
born devoid of curiosity not to take interest in the 
investigation of such wonderful proceedings.” Yet 
Reaumur himself seems not to have understood that 
the bees suspended themselves in this manner to 
secrete wax, but merely, as he imagined, to recruit 
themselves by rest for renewing their labours. The 
bees composing the festooned curtain dre individu- 
ally motionless ; but this curtain is, notwithstanding, 

* Spectacle de la Nature, tom. i. 

 



kept moving by the proceedings in the interior; for 
the nnrse-bees never form any portion of it, and 
continue their activity — a distinction with which 
Reaumur was unacquainted. 




Curtain of JFa.v-workers secreting JVax. 



Although there are many thousand labourers in a 
hive, they do not commence foundations for combs 






in several places at once, but wait till an individual 
bee has selected a site, and laid the foundation of a 
comb, which serves as a directing mark for all that 
are to follow. Were we not expressly told by so 
accurate an observer as Huber, we might hesitate to 
believe that bees, though united in what appears to 
be a harmonious monarchy, are strangers to sub- 
ordination, and subject to no discipline. Hence it 
is, that though many bees work on the same comb, 
they do not appear to be guided by any simultaneous 
impulse. The stimulus which moves them is suc- 
cessive. An individual bee commences each opera- 
tion, and several others successively apply themselves 
to accomplish the same purpose. Each bee appears, 
therefore, to act individually, either as directed by the 
bees preceding it, or by the state of advancement in 
which it finds the work it has to proceed with. If 
there be anything like unanimous consent, it is the 
inaction of several thousand workers while a single 
individual proceeds to determine and lay down the 
foundation of the first comb. Reaumur regrets, that, 
though he could by snatches detect a bee at work in 
founding cells or perfecting their structure, his ob- 
servations were generally interrupted by the crowding 
of other bees between him and the little builder. 
He was therefore compelled rather to infer the dif- 
ferent steps of their procedure from an examination 
of the cells when completed, than from actual ob- 
servation. The ingenuity of Huber, even under all 
the disadvantages of blindness, succeeded in tracing 
the minutest operations of the workers from the first 
waxen plate of the foundation. We think the narra- 
tive of the discoverer’s experiments, as given by him- 
self, will be more interesting than any abstract of it 
which we could furnish. 

“ Having taken a large bell-shaped glass receiver, 
we glued thin wooden slips to the arch at certain in- 



 



tervals, because the glass itself was too smooth to 
admit of the bees supporting themselves on it. A 
swarm, consisting of some thousand workers, several 
hundred males, and a fertile queen, was introduced, 
and they soon ascended to the top. Those first 
gaining the slips, fixed themselves there by the fore- 
feet ; others scrambling up the sides, joined them, 
by holding their legs with their own, and they thus 
formed a kind of chain, fastened by the two ends to 
the upper parts of the receiver, and served as ladders 
or a bridge to the workers enlarging their number. 
The latter were united in a cluster, hanging like an 
inverted pyramid from the top to the bottom of the hive. 

“ The country then affording little honey, we pro- 
vided the bees with syrup of sugar, in order to hasten 
their labour. They crowded to the edge of a vessel 
containing it ; and, having satisfied themselves, re- 
turned to the group. We were now struck with the 
absolute repose of this hive, contrasted with the usual 
agitation of bees. Meanwhile, the nurse-bees alone 
went to forage in the country : they returned with 
pollen, kept guard at the entrance of the hive, 
cleansed it, and stopped up its edges with propolis. 
The wax-workers remained motionless above fifteen 
hours : the curtain of bees, consisting always of the 
same individuals, assured us that none replaced them. 
Some hours later, we remarked that almost all these 
individuals had wax scales under the rings ; and 
next day this phenomenon was still more general. 
The bees forming the external layer of the cluster, 
having now somewhat altered their position, enabled 
us to see their bellies distinctly. By the projection 
of the wax scales, the rings seemed edged with 
white. The curtain of bees became rent in several 
places, and some commotion began to be observed 
in the hive. 

“ Convinced that the combs would originate in 






the centre of the swarm, our whole attention was 
then directed towards the roof of the glass. A worker 
at this time detached itself from one of the central 
festoons of the cluster, separated itself from the 
crowd, and, with its head, drove away the bees at 
the beginning of the row in the middle of the arch, 
turning round to form a space an inch or more in 
diameter, in which it might move freely. It then 
fixed itself in the centre of the space thus cleared. 

“ The worker now employing the pincers at the 
joint of one of the third pair of its limbs, seized a 
scale of wax projecting from a ring, and brought it 
forward to its mouth with the claws of its fore-legs, 




IVax-worhcr laying the foundation of the first Cell. 

where it appeared in a vertical position. We re- 
marked, that, with its claws, it turned the wax in 
every necessary direction ; that the edge of the scale 
was immediately broken down, and the fragments 
having been accumulated in the hollow of the mandi- 
bles, issued forth like a very narrow ribbon, impreg- 
nated with a frothy liquid by the tongue. The 
tongue itself assumed the most varied shapes, and 
executed the most complicated operations, — being 
sometimes flattened like a trowel, and at other times 
pointed like a pencil ; and, after imbuing the whole 
substance of the ribbon, pushed it forward again 
into the mandibles, whence it was drawn out a 
second time, but in an opposite direction. 

“ At length the bee applied these particles of wax 
to the vault of the hive, where the saliva impreg- 
nating them promoted their adhesion, and also com-’ 







municated a whiteness and opacity, which were want- 
ing when the scales were detached from the rings. 
Doubtless, this process was to give the wax that 
ductility and tenacity belonging to its perfect state. 
The bee then separated those portions not yet ap- 
plied to use with its mandibles, and with the same 
organs afterwards arranged them at pleasure. The 
founder bee, a name appropriate to this worker, re- 
peated the same operation, until all the fragments, 
worked up and impregnated with the fluid, were 
attached to the vault, when it repeated the preceding- 
operations on the part of the scale yet kept apart, 
and again united to the rest what was obtained from 
it. A second and third scale were similarly treated 
by the same bee ; yet the work was only sketched ; 
for the worker did nothing but accumulate the par- 
ticles of wax together. Meanwhile, the founder, 
quitting its position, disappeared amidst its com- 
panions. Another, with wax under the rings, suc- 
ceeded it, which, suspending itself to the same spot, 
withdrew a scale by the pincers of the hind legs, and 
passing it through its mandibles, prosecuted the 
work ; and taking care to make its deposit in a line 
with the former, it united their extremities. A third 
worker, detaching itself from the interior of the 
eluster, now came and reduced some of the scales to 
paste, and put them near the materials accumulated 
by its companions, but not in a straight line. Ano- 
ther bee, apparently sensible of the defect, removed 
the misplaced wax before our eyes, and carrying it 
to the former heap, deposited it there, exactly in the 
order and direction pointed out. 

“ From all these operations was produced a block 
of a rugged surface, hanging down from the arch, 
without any perceptible angle, or any traces of cells. 
It was a simple wall, or ridge, running in a straight 
line, and without the least inflection, two-thirds of 







an inch in length, about two-thirds of a cell, or two 
lines, high, and declining towards the extremities. 
We have seen other foundation walls from an inch 
to an inch and a half long, the form being always 
the same but none ever of greater height. 

“ The vacuity in the centre of the cluster had per- 
mitted us to discover the first manoeuvres of the 
bees, and the art with which they laid the foundations 
of their edifices. However, it was filled up too soon 
for our satisfaction ; for workers collecting on both 
faces of the wall obstructed our view of their further 
operations 

* Huber on Bees, p. 3f)8. 



Curtain of fVax-workcrs.—(See p. 114.) 





The obstruction of which M. Huber complains only 
operated as a stimulus to his ingenuity in contriving 
how he miffht continue his interesting: observations. 
From the time of Pappus to the present day, mathe- 
maticians have applied the principles of geometry to 
explain the construction of the cells of a bee-hive ; 
but though their extraordinary regularity, and won- 
derfully selected form, had so often been investigated 
by men of the greatest talent, and skilled in all the 
refinements of science, the process by w hich they are 
constructed, involving also the causes of their regu- 
larity of form, had not been traced, till M. Huber 
devoted himself to the inquiry. 

As the wax-workers secrete only a limited quantity 
of wax, it is indispensably requisite that as little as 
possible of it should be consumed, and that none of it 
should be wasted. Bees, therefore, as M. Reaumur 
well remarks *, have to solve this difficult geometrical 
problem : — A quantity of wax being given, to form 
of it similar and equal cells of a determinate capa- 
city, but of the largest size in proportion to the 
quantity of matter employed, and disposed in such a 
manner as to occupy the least possible space in the 
hive. This problem is solved by bees in all its con- 
ditions. The cylindrical form would seem to be best 
adapted to the shape of the insect ; but had the cells 
been cylindrical, they could not have been applied to 

* R6aumur, vol.v., p. 380. 







each oilier without leaving a vacant and superfluous 
space between every three contiguous cells. Had the 
cells, on the other hand, been square or triangular, they 
might have been constructed without unnecessary 
vacancies ; but these forms would have both required 
more material and been very unsuitable to the shape 
of a bee’s body. The six-sided form of the cells 
obviates every objection ; and while it fulfils the con- 
ditions of the problem, it is equally adapted with a 
cylinder to the shape of the bee. 

M. Reaumur further remarks, that the base of 
each cell, instead of forming a plane, is usually com- 
posed of three pieces in the shape of the diamonds 
on playing cards, and placed in such a manner as to 
form a hollow pyramid. This structure, it may be 
observed, imparts a greater degree of strength, and, 
still keeping the solution of the problem in view, 
gives a great capacity with the smallest expenditure of 
material. This has actually, indeed, been ascertained 
by mathematical measurement and calculation. Ma- 
raldi, the inventor of glass hives, determined, by 
minutely measuring these angles, that the greater 
were 109° 28', and the smaller, 70° 32'; and M. 
Reaumur, being desirous to know why these parti- 
cular angles are selected, requested M. Koenig, a 
skilful mathematician, (without informing him of his 
design, or telling him of Maraldi’s researches,) to 
determine, by calculation, what ought to be the angle 
of a six-sided cell, with a concave pyramidal base, 
formed of three similar and equal rhomboid plates, 
so that the least possible matter should enter into its 
construction By employing what geometricians de- 
nominate the infinitesimal calculus , M. Koenig found 
that the angles should be 109° 26' for the greater, 
and 70° 34' for the smaller, or about two sixtieths of 
a degree, more or less, than the actual angles made 
choice of by bees. The equality of inclination in the 





angles has also been said to facilitate the construction 
of the cells. 

M. Huber adds to these remarks, that the cells of 
the first row, by which the whole comb is attached 
to the roof of a hive, are not like the rest ; for 
instead of six sides they have only five, of which the 
roof forms one. The base, also, is in these different, 
consisting 1 of three pieces on the face of the comb, 
and on the other side of two : one of these only is 
diamond shaped, while the other two are of an irre- 
gular four-sided figure. This arrangement, by bring- 
ing the greatest number of points in contact with the 
interior surface, ensures the stability of the comb. 




Arrangement of Cells. 

It may, however, be said not to be quite certain, 
that Reaumur and others have not ascribed to bees 
the merit of ingenious mathematical contrivance and 
selection, when the construction of the cells may more 
probably originate in the form of their mandibles and 
other instruments employed in their operations. In 
the case of other insects, we have, both in the preced- 
ing and subsequent pages of this volume, repeatedly 
noticed, that they use their bodies, or parts thereof, 
as the standards of measurement and modelling ; and 
it is not impossible that bees may proceed on a 
similar principle. M. Huber replies to this objection, 







that bees are not provided with instruments corre- 
sponding to the angles of their cells ; for there is no 
more resemblance between these and the form of 
their mandibles, than between the chisel of the 
sculptor and the work which he produces. The 
head, he thinks, does not furnish any better explana- 
tion. He admits that the antennae are very flexible, 
so as to enable the insects to follow the outline of 
every object ; but concludes that neither their struc- 
ture, nor that of the limbs and mandibles, are ade- 
quate to explain the form of the cells, though all 
these are employed in the operations of building, — 
the effect, according to him, depending entirely on 
the object which the insect proposes. 

We shall now follow M. Huber in the experiments 
which he contrived, in order to observe the opera- 
tions of the bees subsequent to their laying a founda- 
tion for the first cell ; and we shall again quote from 
his own narrative: — 

“ It appeared to me,” he says, “that the only 
method of isolating the architects, and bringing them 
individually into view, would be to induce them to 
change the direction of their operations, and work 
upwards. 

“ I had a box made twelve inches square and nine 
deep, with a moveable glass lid. Combs full of 
brood, honey, and pollen, were next selected from 
one of my leaf hives, as containing what might in- 
terest the bees, and being cut into pieces a foot long, 
and four inches deep, they were arranged vertically 
at the bottom of the box, at the same intervals as 
the insects themselves usually leave between them. 
A small slip of wooden lath covered the upper edge 
of each. It was not probable that the bees would 
attempt to found new combs on the glass roof of the 
box, because its smoothness precluded the swarm 
from adhering to it; therefore, if disposed to build, 

 



they could do so over the slips resting 1 on the combs, 
Avhich left a vacuity five inches high above them. As 
we had foreseen, the swarm with which this box was 
peopled established itself among the combs below. 
We then observed the nurse-bees displaying their 
natural activity. They dispersed themselves through- 
out the hive, to feed the young grubs, to clear out 
their lodgment, and adapt it for their convenience. 
Certainly, the combs, which were roughly cut to fit 
the bottom of the box, and in some parts damaged, 
appeared to them shapeless and misplaced ; for they 
speedily commenced their reparation. They beat 
down the old wax, kneaded it between their teeth, and 
thus formed binding materials to consolidate them. 
We were astonished beyond expression by such a 
multitude of workers employed at once in labours 
to which it did not appear they should have been 
called, at their coincidence, their zeal, and their pru- 
dence. 

“ But it was still more wonderful, that about half 
the numerous population took no part in the pro- 
ceedings, remaining motionless, while the others ful- 
filled the functions required. The wax-workers, in 
a state of absolute repose, recalled our former obser- 
vations. Gorged with the honey we had put within 
their reach, and continuing in this condition during 
twenty-four hours, wax was formed under their 
rings, and was now ready to be put in operation. 
To our great satisfaction, we soon saw a little foun- 
dation wall rising on one of the slips that we had 
prepared to receive the superstructure. No obstacle 
was offered to the progress of our observations ; and 
for the second time, we beheld both the undertaking 
of the founder bee, and the successive labours of 
several wax-workers, in forming the foundation wall. 
Would that my readers could share the interest which 
the view of these architects inspired ! 







“ This foundation, originally very small, was en- 
larged as the work required ; while they excavated 
on one side a hollow, of about the width of a com- 
mon cell, and on the opposite surface two others 
somewhat more elongated. The middle of the single 
cell corresponded exactly to the partition separating 
the latter; the arches of these excavations, projecting 
by the accumulation of wax, were converted into 
ridges in a straight line ; whence the cells of the first 
row were composed of five sides, considering the 
slip as one side, and those of the second row, of six 
sides. 




Foundation-wall enlarged , and the cells commenced. 



“ The interior conformation of the cavities, ap- 
parently, was derived from the position of their re- 
spective outlines. It seemed that the bees, endowed 
with an admirable delicacy of feeling, directed their 
teeth principally to the place where the wax was 
thickest ; that is, the parts where other workers on 
the opposite side had accumulated it ; and this ex- 
plains why the bottom of the cell is excavated in an 
angular direction behind the projection on the sides 
of which the sides of the corresponding cells are to 
rise. The largest of the excavations, which was op- 
posite to three others, was divided into three parts, 
while the excavations of the first row on the other 
face, applied against this one, were composed of only 
two. 

“ In consequence of the manner in which the ex- 
cavations were opposed to each other, those of the 
second row, and all subsequent, partially applied to 
three cavities, were composed of three equal diamond- 





shaped lozenges. I may here remark, that each 
part of the labour of bees appears the natural result 
of what has preceded it ; therefore, chance has no 
share in these admirable combinations. 

“ A foundation wall rose above the slip like a 
minute vertical partition, five or six lines long, two 
lines high, but only half a line in thickness; the 
edge circular, and the surface rough. Quitting the 
cluster among the combs, a nurse-bee mounted the 
slip, turned around the block, and visiting both sides, 
began to work actively in the middle. It removed 
as much wax with its teeth as might equal the 
diameter of a common cell ; and after kneading and 
moistening the particles, deposited them on the edge 
of the excavation. This insect, having laboured 
some seconds, retired, and was soon replaced by 
another ; a third continued the work, raising the 
margin of the edges, now projecting from the cavity, 
and with assistance of its teeth and feet fixing* the 
particles, so as to give these edges a straighter form. 
More than twenty bees successively participated in 
the same work ; and when the cavity was little above 
a line and a half in height, though equalling a cell in 
width, a bee left the swarm, and after encircling the 
block, commenced its operations on the opposite 
face, where yet untouched. But its teeth acting only 
on one half of this side, the hollow which it formed 
was opposite to only one of the slight prominences 
bordering the first cavity. Nearly at the same time 
another worker began on the right of the face that 
had been untouched, wherein both were occupied in 
forming cavities, which may be designed the second 
and third ; and they also were replaced by substi- 
tutes. These two latter cavities were separated only 
by the common margin, framed of particles of wax 
withdrawn from them ; which margin corresponded 
with the centre of the cavity on the opposite surface. 







The foundation wall itself was still of insufficient 
dimensions to admit the full diameter of a cell ; but 
while the excavations were deepened, wax-workers 
extracting 1 their scales of wax applied them in enlarg- 
ing its circumference ; so that it rose nearly two lines 
further around the circular arch. The nurse-bees, 
which appeared more especially charged with sculp- 
turing the cells, being then enabled to continue their 
outlines, prolonged the cavities, and heightened their 
margins on the new addition of wax 

“ The arch, formed by the edge of each of these 
cavities, was next divided as by two equal chords, in 
the line of which the bees formed stages or project- 
ing borders, or margins meeting at an obtuse angle ; 
the cavities now had four margins, two lateral and 
perpendicular to the supporting slip, and two oblique, 
which were shorter. 

“ Meantime, it became more difficult to follow the 
operations of the bees, from their frequently inter- 
posing their heads between the eye of the observer 
and the bottom of the cell ; but the partition, whereon 
their teeth laboured, had become so transparent, as 
to expose what passed on the other side. 

“ The cavities of which we speak, formed the 
bottom of the first three cells ; and while the bees 
engaged were advancing them to perfection, other 
workers commenced sketching a second row of cells 
above the first, and partly behind those in front — 
for in general, their labour proceeds by combination. 
We cannot say, ‘ When bees have finished this cell, 
they will begin new ones but, ‘ while particular 
workers advance a certain portion, we are certain 
that others will carry on the adjacent cells.’ Farther, 
the work begun on one face of the comb is already 
the commencement of that which is to follow on the 
reverse. All this depends on a reciprocal relation, 
or a mutual connexion of the parts, rendering the 



 



whole subservient to each other. It is undoubted, 
therefore, that slight irregularities on the front will 
affect the form of the cells on the back of the comb 
When they have in this manner worked the bot- 
toms of the first row of cells into the required forms, 
some of the nurse-bees finish them by imparting a 
sort of polish, while others proceed to cut out the 
rudiments of a second row from the fresh wall of 
wax which has been built in the meanwhile by the 
wax-workers, and also on the opposite side of this 
wall ; for a comb of cells is always double, being 
arranged in two layers, placed end to end. The cells 
of this second row are engrafted on the borders of 
cavities hollowed out in the wall, being founded by 
the nurse-bees, bringing the contour of all the bot- 
toms, which is at first unequal, to the same level ; 
and this level is kept uniform in the margins of the 
cells till they are completed. At first sight, nothing 
appears more simple, than adding wax to the mar- 
gins ; but from the inequalities occasioned by the 
shape of the bottom, the bees must accumulate wax 
on the depressions, in order to bring them to a level. 
It follows accordingly that the 'surface of a new 
comb is not quite flat, there being a progressive slope 
produced as the work proceeds, and the comb being 
therefore in the form of a lens, the thickness decreasing 
towards the edge, and the last formed cells being 
shallower or shorter than those preceding them. So 
long as there is room for the enlargement of the 
comb, this thinning of its edge may be remarked ; 
but as soon as the space within the hive prevents its 
enlargement, the cells are made equal, and two flat 
and level surfaces are produced. 

M. Huber observed, that while sketching the 
bottom of a cell, before there was any upright mar- 
gin on the reverse, their pressure on the still soft 
* Huber on Bees, p. 368. 






and flexible wax gave rise to a projection, which 
sometimes caused a breach of the partition. This, 
however, was soon repaired, but a slight prominence 
always remained on the opposite surface, to the right 
and left of which they placed themselves, to begin a 
new excavation ; and they heaped up part of the 
materials between the two flutings formed by their 
labour. The ridge thus formed becomes a guide to 
the direction which the bees are to follow for the 
vertical furrow of the front cell. 

We have already seen that the first cell determines 
the place of all that succeed it, and two of these are 
never in ordinary circumstances begun in different 
parts of the hive at the same time, as is alleged by 
some earlier writers. When some rows of cells, 
however, have been completed in the first comb, two 
other foundation walls are begun, one on each side of 
it, at the exact distance of one-third of an inch, which 
is sufficient to allow two bees employed on the op- 
posite cells to pass each other without jostling. These 
new walls are also parallel to the former ; and two 
more are afterwards begun exterior to the second, 
and at the same parallel distance. The combs are 
uniformly enlarged, and lengthened in a progression 
proportioned to the priority of their origin ; the 
middle comb being always advanced beyond the two 
adjoining ones by several rows of cells, and these 
again beyond the ones exterior to them. Did the 
bees lay the foundations of all their combs at the 
same time, they would not find it easy to preserve 
parallelism and an equality in their distances. It may 
be remarked further, that beside the vacancies of 
half an inch between the cells, which form what we 
may call the highways of the community, the combs 
are pierced in several places with holes which serve 
as postern-gates for easy communication from one to 
another, to prevent loss of time in going round. The 







equal distance between the combs is of more impor- 
tance to the welfare of the hive than might at first 
appear ; for were they too distant, the bees would be 
so scattered and dispersed, that they could not re- 
ciprocally communicate the heat indispensable for 
hatching the eggs and rearing the young. If the 
combs, on the other hand, were closer, the bees 
could not traverse the intervals with the freedom 
necessary to facilitate the work of the hive. On the 
approach of winter, they sometimes elongate the 
cells which contain honey, and thus contract the 
intervals between the combs. But this expedient is 
in preparation for a season when it is important to 
have copious magazines, and when their activity 
being relaxed, it is unnecessary for their communi- 
cations to be so spacious and free. On the return of 
spring, the bees hasten to contract the elongated 
cells, that they may become fit for receiving the 
eggs which the queen is about to deposit, and in 
this manner they re-establish the regular distance * 

We are indebted to the late Dr. Barclay of Edin- 
burgh, well known as an excellent anatomist, for 
the discovery that each cell in a honeycomb is not 
simply composed of one wall, but consists of two. 
We shall give the account of his discovery in his own 
words : — 

“ Having inquired of several naturalists whether 
or not they knew any author who had mentioned 
that the partitions between the cells of the honey- 
comb were double, and whether or not they had ever 
remarked such a structure themselves, and they hav- 
ing answered in the negative ; I now take the liberty 
of presenting to the Society, pieces of honeycomb, 
in which the young bees had been reared, upon 
breaking which, it will be clearly seen that the par- 
titions between different cells, at the sides and the 

- • * Huber on Bees, p. 220. 






base, are all double ; or, in other words, that each 
cell is a distinct, separate, and in some measure an 
independent structure, agglutinated only to the neigh- 
bouring cells ; and that when the agglutinating sub- 
stance is destroyed, each cell may be entirely sepa- 
rated from the rest. 

“ I have also some specimens of the cells formed 
by wasps, which shew that the partitions between 
them are also double, and that the agglutinating sub- 
stance between them is more easily destroyed than 
that between the cells of the bee 

Irregularities in their Workmanship. 

Though bees, however, work with great uniformity 
when circumstances favour their operations, they may 
be compelled to vary their proceedings. M. Huber 
made several ingenious experiments of this kind. 
The following, mentioned by Dr. Bevan, was acci- 
dental, and occurred to his friend Mr. Walond. 
“ Inspecting his bee-boxes at the end of October, 
1817, he perceived that a centre comb, burdened 
with honey, had separated from its attachments, and 
was leaning against another comb, so as to prevent 
the passage of the bees between them. This acci- 
dent excited great activity in the colony; but its 
nature could not be ascertained at the time. At the 
end of a week, the weather being cold, and the bees 
clustered together, Mr. Walond observed, through 
the window of the box, that they had constructed 
two horizontal pillars betwixt the combs alluded to ; 
and had removed so much of the honey and wax 
from the top of each, as to allow the passage of a 
bee : in about ten days more, there was an unin- 
terrupted thoroughfare ; the detached comb at its- 
upper part had been secured by a strong barrier, and 

* Memoirs of the Wernerian Nat.' Hist. Soc, vol, ii. p. 260. 




fastened to the window with the spare wax. This 
being accomplished, the bees removed the horizontal 
pillars first constructed as being of no further use 
A similar anecdote is told by M. Huber. “ Dur- 
ing the winter,” says he, “ a comb in one of my 
bell-glass hives, having been originally insecure, fell 
down, but preserved its position parallel to the rest. 
The bees were unable to fill up the vacuity left above 
it, because they do not build combs of old wax, and 
none new could be then obtained. At a more favour- 
able season they would have ingrafted a new comb 
on the old one ; but now their provision of honey 
could not be spared for the elaboration of this sub- 
stance, which induced them to ensure the stability 
of the comb by another process. 

“ Crowds of bees taking wax from the lower part 
of other combs, and even gnawing it from the sur- 
face of the orifices of the deepest cells, they con- 
structed so many irregular pillars, joists, or but- 
tresses, between the sides of the fallen comb, and 
others on the glass of the hive. All these were arti- 
ficially adapted to localities. Neither did they con- 
fine themselves to repairing the accidents which their 
works had sustained. They seemed to profit by 
the warning, to guard against a similar casualty. 

The remaining combs were not displaced; there- 
fore, while solidly adhering by the base, we were 
greatly surprised to see the bees strengthen their 
principal fixtures with old wax. They rendered 
them much thicker than before, and fabricated a 
number of new connexions, to unite them more 
firmly to each other, and to the sides of their dwelling. 
All this passed in the middle of January, a time that 
these insects commonly keep in the upper part of 
their hive, and when work is no longer seasonablef.” 
M. Huber the younger shrewdly remarks, that 
* Bevan on Bees, p, 326, f Huber on Bees, p, 416. 







the tendency to symmetry observable in the archi- 
tecture of bees, does not hold so much in small de- 
tails as in the whole work, because they are some- 
times obliged to adapt themselves to particular loca- 
lities. One irregularity leads on to another, and it 
commonly arises from mere accident, or from design 
on the part of the proprietor of the bees. By allow- 
ing, for instance, too little interval between the spars 
for receiving the foundation of the combs, the struc- 
ture has been continued in a particular direction. 
The bees did not at first appear to be sensible of the 
defect, though they afterwards began to suspect their 
error, and were then observed to change their line of 
work till they gained the customary distance. The 
cells having been by this change of direction in some 
degree curved, the new ones which were commenced 
on each side of it, by being built every where parallel 
to it, partook of the same curvature. But the bees 
did not relish such approaches to the “line of beauty,” 
and exerted themselves to bring their buildings again 
into the regular form. 

In consequence of several irregularities which they 
wished to correct, the younger Huber has seen bees 
depart from their usual practice, and at once lay on 
a spar two foundation walls not in the same line. 
They could consequently neither be enlarged without 
obstructing both, nor from their position could the 
edges unite had they been prolonged. The little 
architects, however, had recourse to a very ingenious 
contrivance: they curved the edges of the two combs, 
and brought them to unite so neatly that they could 
be both prolonged in the same line with ease ; and 
when carried to some little distance, their surface 
became quite uniform and level. 

“ Having seen bees,” says the elder Huber, “ work 
both up and down, I wished to try to investigate 
whether we could compel them to construct their 





combs in any other direction. We endeavoured to 
puzzle them with a hive glazed above and below, so 
that they had no place of support but the upright 
sides of their dwelling ; but, betaking themselves to 
the upper angle, they built their combs perpendicular 
to one of these sides, and as regularly as those 
which they usually build under a horizontal surface. 
The foundations were laid on a place which does not 
serve naturally for the base, yet, except in the dif- 
ference of direction, the first row of cells resembled 
those in ordinary hives, the others being distributed 
on both faces, while the bottoms alternately corre- 
sponded with the same symmetry. I put the bees to 
a still greater trial. As they now testified their in- 
clination to carry their combs, by the shortest way, 
to the opposite side of the hive (for they prefer 
uniting them to wood, or a surface rougher than 
glass), I covered it with a pane. Whenever this 
smooth and slippery substance was interposed be- 
tween them and the wood, they departed from the 
straight line hitherto followed, and bent the struc- 
ture of their comb at a right angle to what was al- 
ready made, so that the prolongation of the ex- 
tremity might reach another side of the hive, which 
had been left free. 

“ Varying this experiment in several ways, I saw 
the bees constantly change the direction of their 
combs, when I presented to them a surface too 
smooth to admit of their clustering on it. They al- 
ways sought the wooden sides. I thus compelled 
them to curve the combs in the strangest shapes, by 
placing a pane at a certain distance from their edges. 
These results indicate a degree of instinct truly 
wonderful. They denote even more than instinct : 
for glass is not a substance against which bees can 
be warned by nature. In trees, their natural abode, 
there is nothing that resembles it, or with the same 







polish. The most singular part of their proceeding 
is changing the direction of the work before arriving 
at the surface of the glass, and while yet at a dis- 
tance suitable for doing so. Do they anticipate the 
inconvenience which would attend any other mode 
of building? No less curious is the plan adopted 
by the bee for producing an angle in the combs : the 
wonted fashion of their work, and the dimensions of 
the cells, must be altered. Therefore, the cells on 
the upper or convex side of the combs are enlarged ; 
they are constructed of three or four times the width 
of those on the opposite surface. How can so many 
insects, occupied at once on the edges of the combs, 
concur in giving them a common curvature from one 
extremity to the other ? How do they resolve on 
establishing cells so small on one side, while dimen- 
sions so enlarged are bestowed on those of the other? 
And is it not still more singular, that they have the 
art of making a correspondence between cells of 
such reciprocal discrepance? The bottom being com- 
mon to both, the tubes alone assume a taper form. 
Perhaps no other insect has afforded a more decisive 
proof of the resources of instinct, when compelled to 
deviate from the ordinary course. 

“ But let us study them in their natural state, and 
there we shall find that the diameter of their cells 
must be adapted to the individuals which shall be 
bred in them. The cells of males have the same 
figure, the same number of lozenges and sides as 
those of workers, and angles of the* same size. 
Their diameter is 34- lines, while those of workers 
are only 2J-. 

“ It is rarely that the cells of males occupy the 
higher part of the combs. They are generally in 
the middle or on the sides, where they are not iso- 
lated. The manner in which they are surrounded 
by other cells alone can explain how the transition 





in size is effected. When the cells of males are to be 
fabricated under those of workers, the bees make 
several rows of intermediate cells, whose diameter 
augments progressively, until gaining that propor- 
tion proper to the cells required ; and, in returning 
to those of workers, a lowering is observed in a 
manner corresponding. 

“ Bees, in preparing the cells of males, previously 
establish a block or lump of wax on the edge of their 
comb, thicker than is usually employed for those of 
workers. It is also made higher, otherwise the same 
order and symmetry could not be preserved on a 
larger scale. 

“ Several naturalists notice the irregularities in the 
cells of bees as so many defects. What would have 
been their astonishment had they observed that part of 
them are the result of calculation ? Had they followed 
the imperfection of their organs, some other means 
of compensating them would have been granted to the 
insects. It is much more surprising that they know 
how to quit the ordinary route, when circumstances 
demand the construction of enlarged cells ; and, after 
building thirty or forty rows of them, to return to the 
proper proportions from which they have departed, by 
successive reductions. Bees also augment the dimen- 
sions of their cells when there is an opportunity for 
a great collection of honey. Not only are they then 
constructed of a diameter much exceeding that of the 
common cells, but they are elongated throughout the 
whole space admitting it. A great portion of irre- 
gular comb contains cells an inch, or even an inch 
and a half, in depth. 

“ Bees, on the contrary, sometimes are induced 
to shorten their cells. When wishing to prolong an 
old comb, whose cells have received their full dimen- 
sions, they gradually reduce the thickness of its edges, 
by gnawing down the sides of the cells, until they 







restore it. to its original lenticular form. They add 
a waxen block around the whole circumference, and 
on the edge of the comb construct pyramidal bottoms, 
such as those fabricated on ordinary occasions. It is 
a certain fact, that a comb never is extended in any 
direction unless the bees have thinned the edges, 
which are diminished throughout a sufficient space 
to remove any angular projection. 

“ The law which obliges these insects partly to de- 
molish the cells on the edges of the comb before en- 
larging it, unquestionably demands more profound in- 
vestigation. How can we account for instinct leading 
them to undo what they have executed with the utmost 
care ? The wonted regular gradation, which may be 
necessary for new cells, subsists among those ad- 
joining the edges of a comb recently constructed. 
But afterwards, when those on the edge are deepened 
like the cells of the rest of the surface, the bees no 
longer preserve the decreasing gradation which is 
seen in the new combs*.” 

The Finishing of the Cells. 

While the cells are building, they appear to be of 
a dull white colour, soft, even, though not smooth, 
and translucent: but in a few days they become 
tinged with yellow, particularly on the interior sur- 
face ; and their edges, from being thin, uniform, and 
yielding, become thicker, less regular, more heavy, 
and so firm that they will bend rather than break. 
New combs break on the slightest touch. There is 
also a glutinous substance observable around the 
orifices of the yellow cells, of reddish colour, unctuous, 
and odoriferous. Threads of the same substance are 
applied all around the interior of the cells, and at the 
summit of their angles, as if it were for the purpose 
* Huber on Bees, p. 391. 

 



of binding and strengthening the walls. These 
yellow cells also require a much higher temperature 
of water to melt them than the white ones. 

It appeared evident, therefore, that another sub- 
stance, different from wax, had been employed in 
varnishing; the orifices and strengthening; the in- 
terior of the cells. M. Huber, by numerous ex- 
periments, ascertained the resinous threads lining 
the cells, as well as the resinous substance around 
their orifice, to be propolis ; for he traced them, 
as we mentioned in our account of propolis, from 
the poplar buds where they collected it, and saw 
them apply it to the cells ; but the yellow colour is 
not imparted by propolis, to which it bears no ana- 
logy. We are, indeed, by no means certain what 
it is, though it was proved by experiment not to 
arise from the heat of the hives, nor from emanations 
of honey, nor from particles of pollen. Perhaps 
it may be ascribed to the bees rubbing their teeth, 
feet, and other parts of their body on the surfaces 
where they seem to rest; orto their tongue (haustellum) 
sweeping from right to left like a fine pliant pencil, 
when it appears to leave some sprinkling of a trans- 
parent liquid. 

Beside painting and varnishing their cells in this 
manner, they take care to strengthen the weaker parts 
of their edifice by means of a mortar composed of 
propolis and wax, and named pissoceros* by the an- 
cients, who first observed it, though Reaumur was 
somewhat doubtful respecting the existence of such 
a composition. We are indebted to the shrewd ob- 
servations of Huber for a reconcilement of the Roman 
and the French naturalists. The details which he 
has given of his discovery are perhaps the most in- 
teresting in his delightful book. 

“ Soon,” he says, “ after some new combs had been 
* From two Greek words, signifying pilch and wax, 







finished in a hive, manifest disorder and agitation pre- 
vailed among the bees. They seemed to attack their 
own works. The primitive cells, whose structure we 
had admired, were scarcely recognizable. Thick and 
massy walls, heavy, shapeless pillars, were substituted 
for the slight partitions previously built with such regu- 
larity. The substance had changed along with the form, 
being composed apparently of wax and propolis. From 
the perseverance of the workers in their devastations, 
we suspected that they proposed some useful alteration 
of their edifices ; and our attention was directed to the 
cells least injured. Several were yet untouched ; but 
the bees soon rushed precipitately on them, destroyed 
the tubes, broke down the wax, and threw all the 
fragments about. But we remarked, that the bottom 
of the cells of the first row was spared ; neither were 
the corresponding parts on both faces of the comb 
demolished at the same time. The bees laboured at 
them alternately, leaving some of the natural sup- 
ports, otherwise the comb would have fallen down, 
which was not their object : they wished, on the con- 
trary, to provide it a more solid base, and to secure 
its union to the vault of the hive, with a substance 
whose adhesive properties infinitely surpassed those 
of wax. The propolis employed on this occasion 
had been deposited in a mass over a cleft of the hive, 
and had hardened in drying, which probably ren- 
dered it more suitable for the purpose. But the bees 
experienced some difficulty in making any impression 
on it ; and we thought, as also had appeared to M. 
de Reaumur, that they softened it with the same 
frothy matter from the tongue which they use to ren- 
der wax more ductile. 

“ We very distinctly observed the bees mixing 
fragments of old wax with the propolis, kneading the 
two substances together to incorporate them ; and 
the compound was employed in rebuilding the cells 







that had been destroyed. But they did not now fol- 
low their ordinary rules of architecture, for they were 
occupied by the solidity of their edifices alone. 
Night intervening, suspended our observations, but 
next morning confirmed what we had seen. 

“ We find, therefore, that there is an epoch in the 
labour of bees, when the upper foundation of their 
combs is constructed simply of wax, as Reaumur 
believed ; and that after all the requisite conditions 
have been attained, it is converted to a mixture of wax 
and propolis, as remarked by Pliny so many ages 
before us. Thus is the apparent contradiction be- 
tween these two great naturalists explained. But 
this is not the utmost extent of the foresight of these 
insects. When they have plenty of wax, they make 
their combs the full breadth of the hive, and solder 
them to the glass or wooden sides, by structures 
more or less approaching the form of cells, as 
circumstances admit. But should the supply of wax 
fail before they have been able to give sufficient 
diameter to the combs whose edges are rounded, 
large intervals remain between them and the upright 
sides of the hive, and they are fixed only at the top. 
Therefore did not the bees provide against it, by con- 
structing great pieces of wax mixed with propolis, in 
the intervals, they might be borne down by the 
weight of the honey. These pieces are of irregular 
shape, strangely hollowed out, and their cavities void 
of symmetry r \” 

It is remarked by the lively Abbe La Pluche, that 
the foundations of our houses sink with the earth on 
which they are built, the walls begin to stoop by de- 
grees, they nod with age, and bend from their per- 
pendicular; — lodgers damage everything, and time is 
continually introducing some new decay. The man- 
sions of bees, on the contrary, grow stronger the 
* Huber on Bees, p. 415. 







oftener they change inhabitants. Every bee-grub, 
before its metamorphosis into a nymph, fastens its 
skin to the partitions of its cell, but in such a man- 
ner as to make it correspond with the lines of the 
angles, and without in the least disturbing the regula- 
rity of the figure. During summer, accordingly, the 
same lodging may serve for three or four grubs in 
succession ; and in the ensuing season it may accom- 
modate an equal number. Each grub never fails to 
fortify the panels of its chamber by arraying them 
with its spoils, and the contiguous cells receive a si- 
milar augmentation from its brethren *. Reaumur 
found as many as seven or eight of these skins 
spread over one another : so that all the cells being 
incrusted with six or seven coverings, well dried and 
cemented with propolis, the whole fabric daily ac- 
quires a new degree of solidity. 

It is obvious, however, that by a repetition of this 
process the cell might be rendered too contracted ; 
but in such a case the bees know well how to pro- 
ceed, by turning the cells to other uses, such as ma- 
gazines for bee-bread and honey. It has been re- 
marked, however, that in the hive of a new swarm, 
during the months of July and August, there are 
fewer small bees or nurse-bees, than in one that has 
been tenanted four or five years. The workers, in- 
deed, clean out the cell the moment that a young- 
bee leaves its cocoon, but they never detach the 
silky film which it has previously spun on the walls 
of its cell. But though honey is deposited after the 
young leave the cells, the reverse also happens ; and 
accordingly when bees are bred in contracted cells, 
they are by necessity smaller, and constitute, in fact, 
the important class of nurse-bees. 

We are not disposed, however, to go quite so far as 
an American periodical writer, who says, “ Thus we 
* Spectacle de la Nature, vol. i. 




see that the contraction of the cell may diminish the 
size of a bee, even to the extinction of life , just as the 
contraction of a Chinese shoe reduces the foot even to 
uselessness*.” We know, on the contrary, that the 
queen bee will not deposit eggs in a cell either too 
small or too large for the proper rearing of the young. 
In the case of large cells, M. Huber took advantage 
of a queen that was busy depositing the eggs of work- 
ers, to remove all the common cells adapted for their 
reception, and left only the large cells appropriated for 
males. As this was done in June, when bees are most 
active, he expected that they would have immediately 
repaired the breaches he had made, but to his great 
surprise they did not make the slightest movement 
for that purpose. In the meanwhile the queen, being 
oppressed by her eggs, was obliged to drop them 
about at random, preferring this to depositing 
them in the male cells which she knew to be too 
large. At length she did deposit six eggs in the 
large cells, which were hatched, as usual, three days 
after. The nurse-bees, however, seemed to be aware 
that they could not be reared there, and, though they 
supplied them with food, did not attend to them re- 
gularly. M. Huber found that they had been all re- 
moved from the cells during the night, and the busi- 
ness both of laying and nursing was at a complete 
stand for twelve days, when he supplied them again 
with a comb of small cells, which the queen almost 
immediately filled with eggs, and in some cells she 
laid five or six. 



The architecture of the hive, which we have thus 
detailed, is that of bees receiving the aid of human 
care, and having external coverings of a convenient 
form, prepared tor their reception. In this country 
bees are not found in a wild state ; though it is not 

* North American Rev., Oct. 1828, p. 355. 







uncommon for swarms to stray from their proprietors. 
But these stray swarms do not spread colonies 
through our woods, as they are said to do in America. 
In the remoter parts of that continent there are no wild 
bees. They precede civilization; and thus when the 
Indians observe a swarm they say “ the white man is 
coming.” There is evidence of bees having abounded 
in these islands, in the earlier periods of our history ; 
and Ireland is particularly mentioned by the Venerable 
Bede as being “ rich in milk and honey The hive- 
bee has formed an object of economical culture in 
Europe at least for two thousand years ; and Varro 
describes the sort of hives used in his time, 1870 
years ago. We are not aware, however, that it is 
now to be found wild in the milder clime of Southern 
Europe, any more than it is in our own island. 

The wild bees of Palestine principally hived in 
rocks. “ He made him,” says Moses, “ to suck 
honey out of the rockf-” “With honey out of the 
rock,” says the Psalmist, “ should I have satisfied 
thee J.” In the caves of Salsette and Elephanta, at 
the present day, they hive in the clefts of the rocks, 
and the recesses among the fissures, in such num- 
bers, as to become very troublesome to visiters. 
Their nests hang in innumerable clusters ||. 

We are told of a little black stingless bee found in 
the island of Guadaloupe, which hives in hollow trees 
or in the cavities of rocks by the sea side, and lays 
“ up honey in cells about the size and shape of 
pigeons’ eggs. These cells are of a black or deep 
violet colour, and so joined together as to leave no 
space between them. They hang in clusters almost 
like a bunch of grapes The following are men- 
tioned by Lindley as indigenous to Brazil. “ On an 

* “Hibernia dives laclis ac mellis insula.” — Beda, Hist. Eo 
cles. i., 7. f Deut. xxxii. 13. J Psalm lxxxi. 16. 

|| Forbes, Orien. Mem, i. Amer. Q.Rev., iii. p.383. 







excursion towards Upper Tapagippe,” says he, “ and 
skirting- the dreary woods which extend to the interior, 
I observed the trees more loaded with bees’ nests 
than even in the neighbourhood of Porto Seguro. 
They consist of a ponderous shell of clay cemented 
similarly to martins’ nests, swelling from high trees 
about a foot thick, and forming an oval mass full 
two feet in diameter. When broken, the wax is 
arranged as in our hives, and the honey abundant*.” 

Captain Basil Hall found in South America the 
hive of a honey-bee very different from the Brazilian, 
but nearly allied to, if not the same, as that of 
Guadaltoupe. “ The hive we saw opened,” he says, 
“was only partly tilled, which enabled us to see the 
economy of the interior to more advantage. The 
honey is not contained in the elegant hexagonal cells 
of our hives, but in wax-bags, not quite so large as 
an egg. These bags or bladders are hung round the 
sides of the hive, and appear about half full ; the 
quantity being probably just as great as the strength 
of the wax will bear without tearing. Those near 
the bottom, being better supported, are more filled 
than the upper ones. In the centre of the lower part 
of the hive we observed an irregularly-shaped mass of 
comb, furnished with cells like those of our bees, all 
containing young ones in such an advanced state, 
that, when we broke the comb, and let them out, they 
flew merrily away.” 

Clavigero, in his History of Mexico, evidently de- 
scribing the same species of bee, says it abounds in 
Yucatan, and makes the honey of Estabentum, the 
finest in the world, and which is taken every two 
months. He mentioned another species of bee, 
smaller in size, and also without a sting, which forms 
its nest of the shape of a sugarloaf, and as large or 
larger. These are suspended from trees, particularly 
* Roy, Mil. Chroii. quoted in Kirby and Spence. 







from the oak, and are much more populous than our 
common hives. 

Wild honey-bees of some species appear also to 
abound in Africa. Mr. Park, in his second volume 
of travels, tells us that some of his associates im- 
prudently attempted to rob a numerous hive of its 
honey, when the exasperated bees, rushing out to 
defend their property, attacked their assailants with 
great fury, and quickly compelled the whole com- 
pany to fly. 

At the Cape of Good Hope the bees themselves 
must be less formidable, or more easily managed, as 
their hives are sought for with avidity. Nature has 
there provided man with a singular and very effi- 
cient assistant in a bird, most appropriately named 
the Honey-guide ( Indicator major , Vieillot; Cu - 
cuius indicator , La.tham). The honey-guide, so far 
from being alarmed at the presence of man, appears 
anxious to court his acquaintance, and flits from 
tree to tree with an expressive note of invitation, 
the meaning of which is well known both to the 
colonists and the Hottentots. A person invited by 
the honey-guide seldom refuses to follow it on- 
wards till it stops, as it is certain to do, at some 
hollow tree containing a bee-hive, usually well stored 
with honey and wax. It is probable that the bird 
finds itself inadequate to the attack of a legion of 
bees, or to penetrate into the interior of the hive, and 
is thence led to invite an agent more powerful than 
itself. The person invited, indeed, always leaves the 
bird a share of the spoil, as it would be considered 
sacrilege to rob it of its due, or in any way to injure 
so useful a creature. 

The Americans, who have not the African honey- 
guide, employ several well-known methods to track 
bees to their hives. One of the most common 
though ingenious modes, is to place a piece of bee- 





bread on a flat surface, a tile for instance, surround- 
ing it with a circle of wet white paint. , The bee, 
whose habit it is always to alight on the edge of any 
plane, has to travel through the paint to reach the 
bee-bread. When, therefore, she flies off, the ob- 
server can track her by the white on her body. The 
same operation is repeated at another place, at some 
distance from the first, and at right angles to the bee- 
line, just ascertained. The position of the hive is 
easily determined, for it lies in the angle made by the 
intersection of the bee-lines. Another method is 
described in the Philosophical Transactions for 1721. 
The bee-hunter decoys, by a bait of honey, some of 
the bees into his trap, and when he has secured as 
many as he judges will suit his purpose, he incloses 
one in a tube, and, letting it fly, marks its course by 
a pocket compass. Departing to some distance, he 
liberates another, observes its course, and in this 
manner determines the position of the hive, upon the 
principle already detailed. These methods of bee- 
hunting depend upon the insect’s habit of always 
flying in a right line to its home. Those who have 
read Cooper’s tale of the ‘ Prairie’ must well remem- 
ber the expression of “ lining a bee to its hive.” 

In reading these and similar accounts of the 
bees of distant parts of the world, we must not 
conclude that the descriptions refer to the same 
species as the common honey-bee. There are nu- 
merous species of social bees which, while they differ 
in many circumstances, agree in the practice of 
storing up honey, in the same way as we have nu- 
merous species of the mason-bee and of the humble 
bee. Of the latter Mr. Stephens enumerates no less 
than forty-two species indigenous to Britain. 





The operations of an insect in boring’ into a leaf or 
a bud to form a lodgment for its eggs appear very 
simple. The tools, however, by which these effects 
are performed are very complicated and curious. In 
the case of gall-flies ( Cynips ), the operation itself is 
not so remarkable as its subsequent chemical effects. 
These effects are so different from any others that may 
be classed under the head of Insect Architecture, that 
we shall reserve them for the latter part of this vo- 
lume — although, with reference to the use of galls, 
the protection of eggs and larvae, they ought to find 
a place here. We shall, however, at present confine 
ourselves to those which simply excavate a nest, with- 
out producing a tumour. 

The first of these insects which we shall mention 
is celebrated for its song, by the ancient Greek poets, 
under the name of Tem^. The Romans called it 
Cicada, which we sometimes, but erroneously, trans- 
late “ grasshopper for the grasshoppers belong to 
an entirely different order of insects. We shall, there- 
fore, take the liberty of calling the Cicadae, Tree- 
hoppers, to which the cuckoo -spit insect ( Tettigonia 
spumaria , Oliv.) is allied ; but there is only one of 
the true cicadae hitherto ascertained to be British, 
namely, the Cicada hcematodes (Linn.), which was 
taken in the New Forest, Hampshire, by Mr. Daniel 
Bydder. 

M. Reaumur was exceedingly anxious to study the 
economy of those insects ; but they not being indi- 
genous in the neighbourhood of Paris, he commis- 





sionecl liis friends to send him some from more 
southern latitudes, and he procured in this way spe- 
cimens not only from the South of France and 
from Italy, but also from Egypt. From these 
specimens he has given the best account of them 
yet published ; for though, as he tells us, he had 
never had the pleasure of seeing one of them alive, 
the more interesting parts of their structure can 
be studied as well in dead as in living specimens. 
We ourselves possess several specimens from New 
Holland, upon which we have verified some of the 
more interesting’ observations of Reaumur. 

Virgil tells us, that in his time “ the cicadse burst 
the very shrubs with their querulous music*;” but 
we may well suppose that he was altogether unac- 
quainted with the singular instrument by means of 
which they can actually (not poetically) cut grooves 
in the branches they select for depositing their eggs. 
It is the male, as in the case of birds, which fills 
the woods with his song ; while the female, though 
mute, is no less interesting to the naturalist on ac- 
count of her curious ovipositor. This instrument, 
like all those with which insects are furnished by 
nature for cutting, notching, or piercing, is com- 
posed of a horny substance, and is also considerably 
larger than the size of the tree-hopper would pro- 
portionally indicate. It can on this account be par- 
tially examined without a microscope, being, in some 
of the larger species, no less than five lines! in length. 

The ovipositor or auger ( tariere ) as Reaumur calls 
it, is lodged in a sheath which lies in a groove of the 
terminating ring of the belly. It requires only a very 
slight pressure to cause the instrument to protrude 
from its sheath, when it appears to the naked eye to 
be of equal thickness throughout except at the point, 

* Cantu querulae rumpent arbusta cicada-. Georg, iii. 328. 
f A line is about the twelfth part of an inch. 







where it is somewhat enlarged and angular, and on 
both sides finely indented with teeth. A more mi- 
nute examination of the sheath demonstrates that it 
is composed of two horny pieces slightly curved, and 
ending in the form of an elongated spoon, the concave 
part of which is adapted to receive the convex end of 
the ovipositor. 

When the protruded instrument is further examined 
with a microscope, the denticulations, nine in number 
on each side, appear strong, and arranged with great 
symmetry, increasing in fineness towards the point, 
where there are three or four very small ones, beside 
the nine that are more obvious. The magnifier also 
shews that the instrument itself, which appeared sim- 
ple to the naked eye, is in fact composed of three 
different pieces, two exterior armed with the teeth 
before-mentioned, denominated by Reaumur files, 
(limes), and another pointed like a lancet, and not 
denticulated. The denticulated pieces moreover are 
capable of being moved forwards and backwards, 
while the centre one remains stationary, and as this 
motion is effected by pressing a pin or the blade of a 
knife over the muscles on either side at the origin of 
the ovipositor, it may be presumed that those mus- 
cles are destined for producing similar movements 
when the insect requires them. By means of a finely 
pointed pin carefully introduced between the pieces, 
and pushed very gently downwards, they may be, 
with no great difficulty, separated in their whole ex- 
tent. 

The contrivance by which those three pieces are 
held united, while at the same time the two files can 
be easily put in motion, are similar to some of our 
own mechanical inventions, with this difference, that 
no human workman could construct an instrument of 
this description so small, fine, exquisitely polished, 
and fitting so exactly. We should have been apt to 

 



form the grooves in the central piece, whereas they 
are scooped out in the handles of the files, and play 
upon two projecting ridges in the central piece, by 
which means this is rendered stronger. M. Reaumur 
discovered that the best manner of showing the play of 
this extraordinary instrument is to cut it off with a 
pair of scissors near its origin, and then, taking it 
between the thumb and the finger at the point of 
section, work it gently to put the files in motion. 




Ovipositors, withjilcs, of Tree-hopper, magnified. 

Beside the muscles necessary for the movement 
of the files, the handle of each is terminated by a 
curve of the same hard horny substance as itself, 
which not only furnishes the muscles with a sort of 
lever, but serves to press, as with a spring, the two 
files close to the central piece, as is shewn in the 
lower figure. 

M. Pontedera, who studied the economy of the 
tree-hoppers with some care, was anxious to see the 







insect itself make use of the ovipositor in forming 
grooves in wood, but found that it was so shy and 
easily alarmed, that it took to flight whenever he 
approached ; a circumstance of which Reaumur takes 
advantage, to soothe his regret that the insects were 
not indigenous in his neighbourhood. But of their 
workmanship when completed, he had several speci- 
mens sent to him from Provence and Languedoc 
by the Marquis de Caumont. 

The gall-flies, when about to deposit their eggs, 
select growing plants and trees ; but the tree-hoppers, 
on the contrary, make choice of dead, dried branches, 
for the mother seems to be aware that moisture 
would injure her progeny. The branch, commonly 
a small one, in which eggs have been deposited, may 
be recognised by being covered with little oblong 
elevations caused by small splinters of the wood, de- 
tached at one end, but left fixed at the other by the 
insect. These elevations are for the most part in a 
line, rarely in a double line, nearly at equal distances 
from each other, and form a lid to a cavity in the 
wood about four lines in length, containing from 




E.vcavatiiinit f or eggs of Tree-hugger, with litis raised. 



four to ten eggs. It is to be remarked, that the 
insect always selects a branch of such dimensions, 
that it can get at the pith, not because the pith is 
more easily bored, for it does not penetrate into it at 
all, but to form a warm and safe bed for the eggs. 
M. Pontedera says, that when the eggs have been 
deposited, the insect closes the mouth of the hole 
with a gum capable of protecting them from the wea- 
ther ; but M. Reaumur thinks this only) a fancy, as 







out of a great number which he examined, he could 
discover nothing of the kind. Neither is such a pro- 
tection wanted ; for the woody splinters above men- 
tioned furnish a very good covering. 

The grubs hatched from these eggs (of which, M. 
Pontedera says, one female will deposit from five to 
seven hundred) issue from the same holes through 
which the eo-ffs have been introduced, and betake 
themselves to the ground to feed on the roots of 
plants. They are not transformed into chrysalides, 
but into active nymphs, remarkable for their fore 
limbs, which are thick, strong, and furnished with 
prongs for digging; and when we are told by Dr. Le 
Fevre, that they make their way easily into hard stiff 
clay, to the depth of two or three feet, we perceive 
how necessary to them such a conformation must be. 

Saw-Flies. 

An instrument for cutting grooves in wood, still 
more ingeniously contrived than that of the tree- 
hopper, was first observed by Vallisnieri, an eminent 
Italian naturalist, in a four-winged fly, most appro- 
priately denominated by M. Reaumur the saw-fly 
( Tenthredo ), of which many sorts are indigenous to 
Great Britain. The grubs from which those flies 
originate are indeed but too well known, as they fre- 
quently strip our rose, gooseberry, raspberry, and red 
currant trees of their leaves, and are no less destruc- 
tive to birch, alder, and willows ; while turnips and 
wheat suffer still more seriously by their ravages. These 
grubs may readily be distinguished from the cater- 
pillars of moths and butterflies, by having from six- 
teen to twenty-eight feet, by which they usually hang 
to the leaf they feed on, while they coil up the hinder 
part of their body in a spiral ring. The perfect flies 
are distinguished by four transparent wings ; and 







some of the most common have a flat body of a 
yellow or orange colour, while the head and shoulders 
are black. 

In order to see the ovipositor to which we shall 
for the present turn our chief attention, a female saw- 
fly must be taken, and her belly gently pressed, when 
a narrow slit will be observed to open at some dis- 
tance from the anus, and a short, pointed, and some- 
what curved body, of a brown colour and horny sub- 
stance, will be protruded. The curved plates which 
form the sides of the slit, are the termination of the 
sheath, in which the instrument lies concealed till it 
is wanted by the insect. The appearance of this in- 
strument, however, and its singular structure, cannot 
be well understood without the aid of a microscope. 




a, Ovipositor of Saw-fly, protruded from its Sheath , magnified. 

The instrument thus brought into view, is a very 
finely contrived saw, made of horn, and adapted 
for penetrating branches and other parts of plants, 
where the eggs are to be deposited. The ovipo- 
sitor saw of the insect is much more complicated 
than any of those employed by our carpenters. The 
teeth of our saws are formed in a line, but in such 
a manner, as to cut in two lines parallel to, and at 
a small distance from each other. This is effected 
by slightly bending the points of the alternate teeth 
right and left, so that one half of the whole teeth 






stand a little to the right, and the other half a little 
to the left. The distance of the two parallel lines 
thus formed is called the course of the saw, and it 
is only the portion of wood which lies in the course 
that is cut into saw-dust by the action of the instru- 
ment. It will follow, that in proportion to the thin- 
ness of a saw there will be the less destruction of 
wood which may be sawed. When cabinet-makers 
have to divide valuable wood into very thin leaves, 
they accordingly employ saws with a narrow course ; 
while sawyers who cut planks, use one with a broad 
course. The ovipositor saw being extremely fine, does 
not require the teeth to diverge much, but from the 
manner in which they operate, it is requisite that they 
should Hot stand like those of our saws in a straight 
line. The greater portion of the edge of the instru- 
ment, on the contrary, is towards the point some- 
what concave, similar to a scythe, while towards the 
base it becomes a little convex, the whole edge being 
nearly the shape of an Italic f. 




Ovipositor-saw of Saw-fly, with rasps shewn in the crosslines. 







The ovipositor-saw of the fly is put in motion in 
the same way as a carpenter’s hand-saw, supposing 1 
the tendons attached to its base to form the handle, 
and the muscles which put it in motion to be the 
hand of the carpenter. But the carpenter can only 
work one saw at a time, whereas each of these flies 
is furnished with two, equal and similar, which it 
works at the same time — one being advanced and 
the other retracted alternately. The secret, indeed, 
of working more saws than one at once is not un- 
known to our mechanics ; for two or three are some- 
times fixed in the same frame. These, however, not 
only all move upwards and downwards simultane- 
ously, but cut the wood in different places ; while 
the two saws of the ovipositor work in the same cut, 
and, consequently, though the teeth are extremely 
fine, the effect is similar to a saw with a wide set. 

It is important, seeing that the ovipositor-saws 
are so fine, that they be not bent or separated while 
in operation — and this, also, nature has provided for, 
by lodging the backs of the saws in a groove, formed 
by two membranous plates, similar to the structure 
of a clasp-knife. These plates are thickest at the 
base, becoming gradually thinner as they approach 
the point which the form of the saws require. Ac- 
cording to Vallisnieri, it is not the only use of this 
apparatus to form a back for the saws, he having 
discovered, between the component membranes, two 
canals, which he supposes are employed to conduct 
the eggs of the insect into the grooves which it has 
hollowed out for them*. 

The teeth of a carpenter’s saw, it may be remarked, 
are simple, whereas the teeth of the ovipositor saw 
are themselves denticulated with fine teeth. The 
latter, also, combines at the same time the properties 
of a saw and of a rasp or file. So far as we are aware, 
* Reaumur, Mem. ties Insectes, y. p. iii. 





 



these two properties have never been combined in 
any of the tools of our carpenters. The rasping 
part of the ovipositor, however, is not constructed 
like our rasps, with short teeth thickly studded toge- 
ther, but has teeth almost as long as those of the 
saw, and placed contiguous to them on the back of 
the instrument, resembling in their form and setting 
the teeth of a comb, as may be seen in the figure. 
Of course, such observations are conducted with the 
aid of a microscope. 




Portion of Saw-fly's comb-toothed rasp, and saw. 



When a female saw-fly has selected the branch of 
a rose-tree, or any other, in which to deposit her eggs, 
she may be seen bending the end of her belly inwards, 
in form of a crescent, and protruding her saw, at the 
same time, to penetrate the bark or wood. She main- 
tains this recurved position so long as she works in 
deepening the groove; but when she has attained the 
depth required, she unbends her body into a straight 
line, and in this position works upon the place 
lengthways, by applying the saw more horizontally. 
When she has rendered the groove as large as she 
wishes, the motion of the tendons ceases, and an 
egg is placed in the cavity. The saw is then with- 
drawn into the sheath for about two-thirds of its 
length, and at the same moment, a sort of frothy 
liquid, similar to a lather made with soap, is 
dropped over the egg, either for the purpose of glue- 
ing it in its place, or sheathing it from the action of 
the juices of the tree. She proceeds in the same 
manner in sawing out a second groove, ancl so on in 







succession till she has deposited all her eggs, some- 
times to the number of twenty-four. The grooves 
are usually placed in a line, at a small distance from 
one another, on the same branch ; but sometimes the 
mother-fly shifts to another, or to a different part of 
the branch, when she is either scared or finds it un- 
suitable. She commonly, also, takes more than one 
day to the work, notwithstanding the superiority of 
her tools. Reaumur has seen a saw-fly make six 
grooves in succession, which occupied her about ten 
hours and a half. 

The grooves, when finished, have externally little 
elevation above the level of the bark, appearing like 
the puncture of a lancet in the human skin ; but in 
the course of a day or two the part becomes first 
brown and then black, while it also becomes more 
and more elevated. This increased elevation is not 
owing to the growth of the bark, the fibres of which, 
indeed, have been destroyed by the ovipositor saw, 
but to the actual growth of the egg ; for, when a new- 
laid egg of the saw-fly is compared with one which 
has been several days enclosed in the groove, the 
latter will be found to be very considerably the larger. 
This growth of the egg is contrary to the analogy 
observable in the eggs of birds, and even of most 
other insects ; but it has its advantages. As it 
continues to increase, it raises the bark more and 
more, and consequently widens, at the same time, 
the slit at the entrance ; so that, when the grub 
is hatched, it finds a passage ready for its exit. The 
mother-fly seems to be aware of this growth of her 
eggs, for she takes care to deposit them at such 
distances as may prevent their disturbing one another 
by their developement. 

Another species of saw-fly, with a yellow body and 
deep violet-coloured wings, which also selects the 
rose-tree, deposits her eggs in a different manner. 
Instead of making a groove for each egg, like the 





preceding, she forms a large single groove, sufficient 
for about two dozen eggs. These eggs are all ar- 
ranged in pairs, forming two straight lines parallel 
to the sides of the branch. The eggs, however, though 
thus deposited in a common groove, are carefully 
kept each in its place ; for a ridge of the wood is lelt 
to prevent those on the right from touching those on 
the left — and not only so, but between each egg of a 
row a thin partition of wood is left, forming a shallow 



The edges of this groove, it will be obvious, must 
be farther apart than those which only contain a 
single egg, and, in fact, the whole is open to inspec- 
tion ; but the eggs are kept from falling out, both 
by the frothy glue before mentioned, and by the walls 
of the cells containing them. They were observed 
also, by Vallisnieri, to increase in size like the pre- 
ceding. 



cell. 




Nest of eggs of Saw-fly, in rose-tree. 





The labours of those insect-architects, which we have 
endeavoured to describe in the preceding pages, have 
been chiefly those of mothers to form a secure nest 
for their eggs, and the young hatched from them, 
during the first stage of their existence. But a much 
more numerous, and not less ingenious class of 
architects, may be found among the newly hatched 
insects themselves, who, untaught by experience, and 
altogether unassisted by previous example, manifest 
the most marvellous skill in the construction of 
tents, houses, galleries, covert-ways, fortifications, 
and even cities, not to sf>eak of subterranean caverns 
and subaqueous apartments, which no human art 
could rival. 

The caterpillars which are familiarly termed leaf- 
rollers, are perfect hermits. Each lives in a cell, 
which it begins to construct almost immediately after 
it is hatched; and the little structure is at once a 
house which protects the caterpillar from its enemies, 
and a store of food for its subsistence, while it remains 
shut up in its prison. But the insect only devours 
the inner folds. The art which these caterpillars 
exercise, although called into action but once, 
perhaps, in their lives, is perfect. They accomplish 
their purpose with a mechanical skill, which is re- 
markable for its simplicity and unerring success. 
The art of rolling leaves into a secure and immovable 









cell may not appear very difficult; — nor would it 
be so if the caterpillars had fingers, or any parts 
which were equivalent to those delicate and admirable 
natural instruments with which man accomplishes his 
most elaborate works. And yet the human fingers 
could not roll a rocket-case of paper more regularly 
than the caterpillar rolls his house of leaves. A leaf 
is not a very easy substance to roll. In some trees 
it is very brittle. It has also a natural elasticity, — 
a disposition to spring back if it be bent, — which is 
caused by the continuity of its threads, or nervures. 
This elasticity is speedily overcome by the ingenuity 
with which the caterpillar works ; and the leaf is 
thus retained in its artificial position for many weeks, 
under every variety of temperature. We will examine, 
in detail, how these little leaf-rollers accomplish their 
task. 

One of the most common as well as the most 
simple fabrics constructed by caterpillars, may be dis- 
covered during summer on almost every kind of 
bush and tree. We shall take as examples those 
which are found on the lilac, and on the oak. 

A small but very pretty chocolate-coloured moth, 




Lilac-tree Moth. (Lazotccnia Ribeanct, Stephens ?) 

abundant in every garden, but not readily seen from 
its frequently alighting on the ground which is so 
nearly of its own colour, deposits its eggs on the 
leaves of the lilac, and of some other trees, appro- 
priating a leaf to each egg. As soon as the cater- 
pillar is hatched, it begins to secure itself from birds 
and predatory insects by rolling up the lilac leaf into 







the form of a gallery, where it may feed in safety. 
We have repeatedly seen one of them when just 
escaped from the egg, and only a few lines long, 
fix several silk threads from one edge of a leaf, to 
the other, or from the edge to the mid -rib. ‘Then 
going to the middle of the space, he shortened the 
threads by bending them with his feet, and conse- 
quently pulled the edges of the leaves into a circular 
form ; and he retained them in that position by glue- 
ing down each thread as he shortened it. In their 
younger state, those caterpillars seldom roll more 
than a small portion of the leaf ; but when farther 
advanced, they unite the two edges together in their 
whole extent, Avith the exception of a small opening 
at one end, by which an exit may be made in case 
of need. 




Nest of a Lilac-leaf Roller. 

Another species of caterpillar closely allied to this, 
rolls up the lilac-leaves in a different form, beginning 
at the end of a leaf, and fixing and pulling its threads 
till it gets it nearly into the shape of a scroll of 
parchment. To retain this form more securely, it is 

 



not contented, like the former insect, with threads 
fixed on the inside of the leaf ; but has also recourse 
to a few cables which it weaves on the outside. 



Another species of moth allied to the two pre- 
ceding, is of a pretty green colour, and lays its eggs 



upon the leaves of the oak. This caterpillar folds 
them up in a similar manner, but with this difference, 
that it works on the under surface of the leat, pulling 
the edge downwards and backwards, instead of for- 
wards and upwards. This species is very abundant. 




Another Nest of Lilac-tree Rollers. 




Small green Oak-moth. ( Tortrix Viridannf 








Nests of oak-leaf rolling Caterpillars. 

and may readily be found as soon as the leaves ex- 
pand. In June, when the perfect insect has ap- 
peared, by beating a branch of an oak, a whole shower 
of these pretty green moths may be shook into the air. 

Among the leaf-rolling caterpillars, there is a 
small dark-brown one, with a black head and six 
feet, very common in gardens on the currant-bush, 
or the leaves of the rose-tree. ( Lozotcevia Rosana t 
Stephens.) It is exceedingly destructive to the 
flower-buds. The eggs are deposited in the summer, 
and probably also in the autumn or in spring, in 
little oval or circular patches of a green colour. The 
grub makes its appearance with the first opening of 
the leaves, of whose structure in the half-expanded 
state it takes advantage to construct its summer tent. 
It is not, like some of the other leaf-rollers, contented 






with a single leaf, but weaves together as many as 
there are in the bud where it may chance to have been 
hatched, binding their discs so firmly with silk, that 
all the force of the ascending sap, and the increasing 
growth of the leaves cannot break through ; a farther 
expansion is of course prevented. The little inhabi- 
tant in the mean while banquets securely on the par- 
titions of its tent, eating door-ways from one apart- 
ment into another, through which it can escape in 
case of danger or disturbance. 

The leafits of the rose, it may be remarked, expand 
in nearly the same manner as a fan, and the opera- 
tions of this ingenious little insect retain them in the 
form of a fan nearly shut. Sometimes, however, it 
is not contented with one bundle of leafits, but by 
means of its silken cords unites all which spring from 
the same bud into a rain-proof canopy, under the 
protection of which it can feast on the flower-bud, 
and prevent it from ever blowing. 

In the instance, of the currant leaves, the proceed- 
ings of the grub are the same, but it cannot unite the 
plaits so smoothly as in the case of the rose leafits, 
and it requires more labour also, as the nerv- 
ures being stiff, demand a greater effort to bend 
them. When all the exertions of the insect prove 
unavailing: in its endeavours to draw the edges of a 
leaf together, it bends them inwards as far as it can, 
and weaves a close web of silk over the open space 
between. This is well exemplified in one of the 
commonest of our leaf-rolling caterpillars, which may 
be found as early as February on the leaves of the 
nettle and the white archangel ( Lamiuni album.) 
It is of a light dirty-green colour, spotted with black, 
and covered with a few hairs. In its young state it 
confines itself to the bosom of a small leaf, near the 
insertion of the leaf-stalk, partly bending the edges 
inwards, and covering in the interval with a silken 







curtain. As this sort of covering is not sufficient for 
concealment when the animal advances in growth, it 
abandons the base of the leaf for the middle, where 
it doubles up one side in a very secure and ingenious 
manner, 




Nest of the nettle leaf-rolling Caterpillar . 

We have watched this little architect begin and finish 
his tent upon a nettle in our study, the whole opera- 
tion taking more than half an hour *. He began by 
walking over the plant in all directions, examining the 
leaves severally, as if to ascertain which was best fitted 
for his purpose by being pliable, and bending with the 
weight of his body. Having found one to his mind, 
he placed himself along the mid-rib, to the edge of 
which he secured himself firmly with the pro-legs of 
his tail ; then stretching his head to the edge of the 
leaf, he fixed a series of parallel cables between it and 
the mid-rib, with another series crossing these at an 
acute angle. The position in which he worked was 
most remarkable, for he did not, as might have been 
supposed, spin his cables with his face to the leaf, 
but throwing himself on his back, which was turned 
towards the leaf, he hung with his whole weight by 
his first-made cables. This, by drawing them into 
the form of a curve, shortened them, and conse- 
quently pulled the edge of the leaf down towards the 
mid-rib. The weight of his body was not, however, 
the only power which he employed ; for, using the 
anal pro-legs as a point of support, he exerted the 

* J. R. 


 



whole muscles of his body to shorten his threads, 
and pull down the edge of the leaf. When he had 
drawn the threads as tight as he could, he held 
them till he spun fresh ones of sufficient strength to 
retain the leaf in the bent position into which he had 
pulled it. He then left the first series to hang loose 
while he shortened the fresh spun ones as before. 
This process was continued till he had worked down 
about an inch and a half of the leaf, as much as he 
deemed sufficient for his habitation. This was the 
first part of the architecture. 

By the time he had worked to the end of the fold 
he had brought the edge of the leaf to touch the 
mid-rib ; but it was only held in this position by a 
few of the last spun threads, for all the first spun 
ones hung loose within. Apparently aware of this, 
the insect protruded more than half of its body 
through the small aperture left at the end, and spun 
several bundles of threads on the outside precisely 
similar to those ropes of a tent which extend beyond 
the canvass, and are pegged into the ground. Un- 
willing to trust the exposure of his whole body 
on the outside, lest he should be seized by the 
first sand- wasp ( odyjierus ) or sparrow which might 
descry him, he now withdrew to complete the internal 
portion of his dwelling, where the threads were hang- 
ing loose and disorderly. For this purpose he turned 
his head about, and proceeded precisely as he had 
done at the beginning of his task, but taking care to 
spin his new threads so as to leave the loose ones on 
the outside, and make his apartment smooth and 
neat. When he again reached the opposite end, he 
constructed there also a similar series of cables on 
the outside, and then withdrew to give some final 
touches to the interior. 

It is said by Kirby and Spence *, that when these 
* Introd. vol. i, p. 457. 







leaf-rolling insects find that the larger nervures of 
the leaves are so strong as to prevent them from 
bending, they “ weaken it by gnawing it here and 
there half through.” We have never observed the 
circumstance, though we have witnessed the process 
in some hundreds of instances ; and we doubt the 
statement, from the careful survey which the insect 
makes of the capabilities of the leaf before the oper- 
ation is begun. If she found upon examination that 
a leaf would not bend, she would reject it, as we have 
often seen happen, and pass to another *. 

A species of leaf-roller, of the most diminutive 
size, merits particular mention, although it is not 
remarkable in colour or figure. It is without hair, 
of a greenish white, and has all the vivacity of the 
other leaf-rollers. Sorrel is the plant on which it 
feeds ; and the manner in which it rolls a portion of 
the leaf is very ingenious. 

The structure which it contrives is a sort of conical 
pyramid, composed of five or six folds lapped round 
each other. From the position of this little cone the 
caterpillar has other labours to perform, beside that 
of rolling the leaf. It first cuts across the leaf, its 
teeth acting as a pair of scissors ; but it does not 
entirely detach this segment. It rolls it up very gra- 
dually, by attaching threads of silk to the plane sur- 
face of the leaf, as we have before seen ; and then, 
having cut in a different direction, sets the cone 
upright, by weaving other threads, attached to the 
centre of the roll and the plane of the leaf, upon 
which it throws the weight of its body. This, it 
will be readily seen, is a somewhat complicated effort 
of mechanical skill. It has been minutely described 
by M. Reaumur; but the following representation 



* J. R. 






will perhaps make the process clearer than a more 
detailed account 




Leaf-rollinj Caterpillars of the Sorrel. 



This caterpillar, like those of which we have 
already spoken, devours all the interior of the roller. 
It weaves, also, in the interior, a small and thin co- 
coon of white silk, the tissue of which is made com- 
pact and close. It is then transformed into a chry- 
salis. 

The caterpillars of two of our largest and hand- 
somest butterflies, the Painted Lady ( Cynthia cardui, 
Stephens), and the Admirable, or Alderman of the 
London fly-fanciers ( Vanessa atalanta ), are also leaf- 
rollers. The first selects the leaves of the great spear- 
thistle, and sometimes those of the stemless, or star- 
thistle, which might be supposed rather difficult to 
bend ; but the caterpillar is four times as large and 
strong as those which we have been hitherto de- 
scribing. In some seasons it is plentiful ; in others 
it is rarely to be met with : but the Admirable is 
seldom scarce in any part of the country ; and by 







examining the leaves of nettles which appear folded 
edge to edge, in July and August, the caterpillar may 
be readily found. 




Nests of the Hesperia Malvce, with Caterpillar , Chrysalis , and Butterflies. 

Another butterfly ( Hesperia malvfs) is met with 
on dry banks where mallows grow, in May, or even 
earlier, and also in August, but is not indigenous. 
The caterpillar, which is grey, with a black head, 
and four sulphur-coloured spots on the neck, folds 
around it the leaves of the mallow, upon which 
it feeds. There is nothing, however, peculiarly 
different in its proceedings from those above de- 
scribed ; but the care with which it selects and rolls 
up one of the smaller leaves, when it is about to be 
transformed into a chrysalis, is worthy of remark ; it 





joins it, indeed, so completely round and round, that 
it has somewhat the resemblance of an egg. Within 
this green cell it lies secure, till the time arrives 
when it is ready to burst its cerements, and trust to 
the quickness of its wings for protection against its 
enemies. 

Among the nests of caterpillars which roll up par- 
cels of leaves, we know none so well contrived as 
those which are found upon willows and a species 
of osier. The lono* and narrow leaves of these 
plants are naturally adapted to be adjusted pa- 
rallel to each other ; for this is the direction which 




Nest of Willow 'leaf Roller. 







they have at the end of each stalk, when they are not 
entirely developed. One kind of small smooth cater- 
pillar ( Tortrix chlorana ), with sixteen feet, the 
under part of which is brown, and streaked with 
white, fastens these leaves together, and makes them 
up into parcels. There is nothing particularly strik- 
imr in the mechanical manner in which it constructs 
them. It does precisely what we should do in a 
similar case : it winds a thread round those leaves 
which must be kept together, from a little above their 
termination to a very short distance from their ex- 
treme point ; and as it finds the leaves almost con- 
stantly lying near each other, it has little difficulty in 
bringing them together, as is shewn in the cut, a. 

The prettiest of these parcels are those which are 
made upon a kind of osier, the borders of whose 
leaves sometimes form columnar bundles before they 
are become developed. A section of these leaves has 
the appearance of fillagree work. — (See b, p. 170.) 

A caterpillar which feeds upon the willow, and 
whose singular attitudes have obtained for it the trivial 
name of Ziczac, also constructs for itself an arbour 
of the leaves, by drawing them together in an inge- 
nious manner. M. Roesel * has given a tolerable 
representation of this nest, and of the caterpillar. 
The caterpillar is found in June; and the moth ( No - 
todonta ziczac) from May to July in the following 
year. — (See cut, p. 172.) 

Beside those caterpillars which live solitary in the 
folds of a leaf, there are others which associate, em- 
ploying their united powers to draw the leaves of the 
plants they feed upon into a covering for their com- 
mon protection. Among these we may mention the 
caterpillar of a small butterfly, the plantain or Glan- 

* Roesel, cl. ii. 3 Pap. Nocturn., tab. xx., fig. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 6. 

Q 2 




Ziczac Caterpillar and Nest. 

Although a colony of these caterpillars is not nu- 
merous, seldom amounting to a hundred individuals, 
the place which they have selected is not hard to dis- 
cover. Their abode may be seen in the meadow in 
form of a tuft of herbage covered with a white web, 
which may readily be mistaken, at first view, for that 
of a spider, but closer inspection soon corrects this 
notion. It is, in fact, a sort of common tent, in 
which the whole brood lives, eats, and undergoes the 
usual transformations. The shape of this tent, for 







ville fritillary ( Melitea cinxia ), which is very scarce 
in this country. 







the most part, approaches the pyramidal, though that 
depends much upon the natural growth of the her- 
bage which composes it. The interior is divided into 
compartments formed by the union of several small 
tents, as it were, to which others have been from time 
to time added according to the necessities of the com- 
munity. 

When they have devoured all the leaves, or at 
least those which are most tender and succulent, 
they abandon their first camp, and construct another 
contiguous to it under a tuft of fresh leaves. Several 
of these encampments may sometimes be seen within 
the distance of a foot or two, when they can find 
plantain ( Plantago lanceolata) fit for their purpose ; 
but though they prefer this plant, they content them- 
selves with grass if it is not to be procured. 

When they are about to cast their skins, but par- 
ticularly when they perceive the approach of winter, 
they construct a more durable apartment in the inte- 
rior of their principal tent. The ordinary web is 
thin and semi-transparent, permitting the leaves to 
be seen through it ; but their winter canvass, if we 
may call it so, is thick, strong, and quite opaque, 
forming a sort of circular hall without any partition, 
where the whole community lie coiled up and huddled 
together. 

Early in spring they issue forth in search of fresh 
food, and again construct tents to protect them from 
cold and rain, and from the mid-day sun. 

M. Reaumur found upon trial, that it was not only 
the caterpillars hatched from the eggs of the same 
mother which would unite in constructing the com- 
mon tent; for different broods, when put together, 
worked in the same social and harmonious manner. 
We ourselves ascertained, during the present sum- 
mer, (1829,) that this principle of sociality is not 
confined to the same species, nor even to the same 





genus. The experiment which we tried was to con- 
fine two broods of different species to the same branch 
by placing it in a glass of water to prevent their 
escape. The caterpillars which we experimented on 
were several broods of the brown-tail moth ( Porthesia 
auriflua), and the lackey ( Clisiocampa neustria). 
These we found to work with as much industry and 
harmony in constructing the common tent as if they 
had been at liberty on their native trees ; and when 
the lackeys encountered the brown-tails they mani- 
fested no alarm nor uneasiness, but passed over the 
backs of one another as if they had made only a por- 
tion of the branch. In none of their operations did 
they seem to be subject to any discipline, each indi- 
vidual appearing to work, in perfecting the structure, 
from individual instinct, in the same manner as was 
remarked by M. Huber, in the case of the hive-bees*. 
In making such experiments, it is obvious, that the 
species of caterpillars experimented with must feed 
upon the same sort of plant j\i 

The design of the caterpillars in rolling up the 
leaves is not only to conceal themselves from birds 
and predatory insects, but also to protect them- 
selves from the cuckoo-flies, which lie in wait in every 
quarter to deposit their eggs in their bodies, that their 
progeny may devour them. Their mode of conceal- 
ment, however, though it appear to be cunningly 
contrived and skilfully executed, is not always suc- 
cessful, their enemies often discovering their hiding 
place. We happened to see a remarkable instance of 
this last summer (182S), in the case of one of the 
lilac caterpillars which had changed into a chrysalis 
within the closely folded leaf. A small cuckoo-fly, 
aware, it should seem, of the very spot where the 
chrysalis lay within the leaf, was seen boring through 



* See p. 115, 







it with her ovipositor, and introducing her eggs 
through the punctures thus made into the body of the 
dormant insect. We allowed her to lay all her eggs, 
about six in number, and then put the leaf under an 
inverted glass. In a few days the eggs of the cuckoo- 
fly were hatched, the grubs devoured the lilac chry- 
salis, and finally changed into pupae in a case of yel- 
low silk, and into perfect insects like their parent *. 

* J. R. 





The habitations of the insects which we have just 
described consist of growing leaves, bent, rolled, 
or pressed together, and fixed in their positions by 
silken threads. But there are other habitations of a 
similar kind which are constructed by cutting out 
and detaching a whole leaf, or a portion of a leaf. We 
have already seen how dexterously the upholsterer- 
bees cut out small parts of leaves and petals with 
their mandibles, and fit them into their cells. Some 
of the caterpillars do not exhibit quite so much neat- 
ness and elegance as the leaf-cutting bees, though 
their structures answer all the purposes intended ; 
but there are others, as we shall presently see, that 
far excel the bees, at least, in the delicate minutiae 
of their workmanship. We shall first advert to 
those structures which are the most simple. 

Not far from Longchamps, in a road through the 
Bois de Boulogne, is a large marsh, which M. Reau- 
mur never observed to be in a dry state even during 
summer. This marsh is surrounded with very lofty 
oaks, and abounds with pondweed, the water plant 
named by botanists potamogeto/i. The shining- 
leaves of this plant, which are as large as those of 
the laurel or orange-tree, but thicker and more 
fleshy, are spread upon the surface of the water. 
H aving pulled up several of these, about the middle 
of June, M. Reaumur observed, beneath one of the 







first which he examined, an elevation of an oval 
shape, which was formed out of a leaf of the same 
plant. He carefully examined it, and discovered 
that threads of silk were attached to this elevation. 
Breaking the threads, he raised up one of the ends, 
and saw a cavity in which a caterpillar ( Hydrocampa 
Potamogata ) was lodged. An indefatigable ob- 
server, such as M. Reaumur, would naturally follow 
up this discovery ; and he has accordingly given us 
a memoir of the pondweed tent-maker, distinguished 
by his usual minute accuracy. 

In order to make a new cocoon, the caterpillar 
fastens itself on the underside of a leaf of the Pota- 
mogeton. With its mandibles it pierces some part of 
this leaf, and afterwards gradually gnaws a curve 
line, marking the form of the piece which it wishes to 
detach. When the caterpillar has cut off, as from a piece 
of cloth, a patch of leaf of the size and shape suited 
to its purpose, it is provided with half of the mate- 
rials requisite for making a tent. It takes hold of 
this piece by its mandibles, and conveys it to the 
situation on the underside of its own, or another 

I leaf, whichever is found most appropriate. It is there 
disposed, in such a manner, that the underpart of 
the patch — the side which was the underpart of the 
entire leaf — is turned towards the underpart of the 
new leaf, so that the inner walls of the cocoon are 
always made by the underpart of two portions of 
leaf. The leaves of the potamogeton are a little con- 
cave on the underside ; and thus the caterpillar pro- 
duces a hollow cell, though the rims are united. 

The caterpillar secures the leaf in its position by 
threads of white silk. It then weaves a cocoon in 
the cavity which is somewhat thin, but of very close 
tissue. There it shuts itself up to appear again only 
in the form of the perfect insect, and is soon trans- 
formed into a chrysalis. In this cocoon of silk no 






point touches the water ; whilst the cocoon of leaves, 
lined with silk, has been constructed underneath the 
water. This fact proves that the caterpillar has a 
particular art by which it repels the water from be- 
tween the leaves. . 

When the caterpillar, which has thus conveyed, and 
disposed a patch of leaf against another leaf, is not 
ready to be transformed into a chrysalis, it applies 
itself to make a cocoon — a habitation which it may 
carry everywhere about with it. It begins by slightly 
fixing the piece against the whole leaf, leaving inter- 
vals all round, between the piece and leaf, at which 
it may project its head. The piece which it has 
fixed serves as a model for cutting out a similar 
piece in the other leaf. The caterpillar puts them 
accurately together, except at one end of the oval, 
where an opening is left for the insect to project its 
head through When the caterpillar is inclined to 
change its situation, it draws itself forward by means 
of its scaly limbs rivetted upon the leaf. The mem- 
branous limbs which are rivetted against the inner 
sides of the cocoon, oblige it to follow the anterior 
part of the body, as it advances. The caterpillar, 
also, puts its head out of the cocoon every time it 
desires to eat. 

There is found on the common chick-weed ( Stel - 
laria media ) towards the end of July, a middle-sized 
smooth green caterpillar, having three brown spots 
bordered with white on the back, and six leo-s and 
ten pro-legs, whose architecture is worthy of obser- 
vation. When it is about to go into chrysalis, to- 
wards the beginning of August, it gnaws off, one by 
one, a number of the leaves and smaller twigs of the 
chick-weed, and adjusts them into an oval cocoon, 
somewhat rough and unfinished, externally, but 
smooth, uniform, and finely tapestried with white 
silk within. Here it undergoes its transformations 







securely, and when the period of its pupa trance has 
expired in the following- July, it makes its exit in the 
form of a yellowish moth, with several brown spots 
above, and a brown band on each of its four wings 
below. It is also furnished with a sort of tail. 

On the cypress spurge ( Euphorbia cyparissias ), 
a native woodland plant, but not of very common 
occurrence, may be found, towards the end of Octo- 
ber, a caterpillar of a middle size, sparely tufted 
with hair, and striped with black, white, red, and 
brown. The leaves of the plant which are in the 
form of short narrow blades of grass, are made choice 
of by the caterpillar to construct its cocoon, which it 
does with great neatness and regularity, the end of 
each leaf, after it has been detached from the plant, 
being fixed to the stem, and the other leaves placed 
parallel, as they are successively added. The other 
ends of all these are bent inwards, so as to form a 
uniformly rounded oblong figure, somewhat larger 
at one end than at the other. 




Cypress-Spurge Caterpillar— (Acronycta Euphrasia; ?)—with a Cocoon , 

on a branch. 

A caterpillar which builds a very similar cocoon 
to the last mentioned, may be found upon a more 
common plant— the yellow snap-dragon or toad-flax 







( Antirrhinum linaria ) — which is to be seen in almost 
every hedge. It is somewhat shaped like a leech, is 
of a middle size, and the prevailing colour pearl-grey, 
but striped with yellow and black. It spins up 
about the beginning of September, forming the outer 
coating of pieces of detached leaves of the plant, and 
sometimes of whole leaves placed longitudinally, the 
whole disposed with great symmetry and neatness. 
The moth appears in the following June. 

It is worthy of remark, as one of the most 
striking instances of instinctive foresight, that the 
caterpillars which build structures of this substantial 
description, are destined to lie much longer in their 
chrysalis trance, than those which spin merely a 
flimsy web of silk. For the most part, indeed, the 
latter undergo their final transformation in a few 
weeks; while the former continue entranced the larger 
portion of a year, appearing in the perfect state the 
summer after their architectural labours have been 
completed.* This is a remarkable example of the 
instinct which leads these little creatures to act with 
a foresight in many cases much clearer than the 
dictates of human prudence. In the examples be- 
fore us, the instinct is more delicate and complex 
than that which directs other animals to provide a 
burrow for their winter sleep. It is not unreasonable 
to suppose that the one caterpillar is aware, while it 
is building the cocoon, that the moth into which it 
is about to be changed will not be in a fit state to 
appear before the succeeding summer. The other, 
pursuing a similar course of thought, may feel that 
the moth will see the light in a few weeks. The 
comparative distances of time certainly appear most 
difficult to be understood by an insect ; for, as far as 
we know, quadrupeds do not carry their intelligence 
to such an extent. And yet in the solitary case of 

* J. R. 







provision for a future progeny, the instinct is in- 
variably subtle and extraordinary. What, for in- 
stance, is more remarkable than that the insect should 
always place her eggs where her progeny will find 
the food which is best suited to their nature ? In 
almost no case does the perfect insect eat that 
food, so that the parent cannot judge from her own 
habits. The Contriver of the mechanism by which 
insects work also directs the instinct by which they 
use their tools. 

It is exceedingly difficult, with our very limited 
knowledge of the springs of action in the inferior 
animals, to determine the motives of their industry — 
that is, whether they see clearly the end and object 
of their arrangements. A human architect, in all his 
plans, has regard, according to the extent of his skill, 
to the combination of beauty and convenience ; and 
in mpst cases he has adaptations peculiar to the cir- 
cumstances connected with the purpose of the struc- 
ture. In the erection of a common dwelling-house, 
for instance, one family requires many sleeping- 
rooms, another few — one wants its drawing-rooms 
in a suite, another detached. The architect knows all 
these wants, and provides for them. But all insects 
build their habitations upon the same general model, 
although they can slightly vary them according to 
circumstances. Thus, according as the uniformity, 
or the occasional adaptation of their work to particu- 
lar situations, has been most regarded by those who 
speculate upon their actions, they have been held to 
be wholly governed by instinct or by intelligence — 
have been called machines or free agents. There are 
difficulties in either conclusion ; and the truth perhaps 
lies between the two opinions. Their actions may 
entirely result from their organization ; they are cer- 
tainly in conformity with it. Those who would deny 
the animal all intelligence, by which we mean a power, 

R 







resulting from selection, of deviating in small matters 
from a precise rule of action, are often materialists, 
who shut their eyes to the creating and preserving 
economy of Providence. But even this belief in the 
infallible results of organization does not necessarily 
imply the disbelief of a presiding Power. “ The 
same wisdom,” says Bonnet, “ which has constructed 
and arranged with so much art the various organs 
of animals, and has made them concur towards 
one determined end, has also provided that the dif- 
ferent operations which are the natural results of the 
economy of the animal should concur towards the 
same end. The creature is directed towards his ob- 
ject by an invisible hand ; he executes with precision, 
and by one effort, those works which we so much 
admire ; he appears to act as if he reasoned, to 
return to his labour at the proper time, to change 
his scheme in case of need. But in all this he only 
obeys the secret influence which drives him on. He 
is but an instrument which cannot judge of each 
action, but is wound up by that adorable Intelli- 
gence, which has traced out for every insect its pro- 
per labours, as he has traced the orbit of each 
planet. When, therefore, I see an insect working at 
the construction of a nest, or a cocoon, I am im- 
pressed with respect, because it seems to me that I 
am at a spectacle where the Supreme Artist is hid 
behind the curtain 

There is a small sort of caterpillar which may be 
found on old walls, feeding upon minute mosses and 
lichens, the proceedings of which are well worthy of 
attention. They are similar, in appearance and size, 
to the caterpillar of the small cabbage-butterfly 
( Pontia rapce ), and are smooth and bluish. The 
material which they use in building their cocoons is 



* Contemplation de la Nature, part xv. chap. 38. 







composed of the leaves and branchlets of green moss, 
which they cut into suitable pieces, detaching at the 
same time along with them a portion of the earth in 
which they grow. They arrange these upon the 
walls of their building with the moss on the outside, 
and the earth on the inside, making a sort of vault 
of the tiny bits of green moss turf, dug from the 
surface of the wall. So neatly, also, are the several 
pieces joined, that the whole might well be supposed 
to be a patch of moss which had grown in form of 
an oval tuft, a little more elevated than the rest 
growing on the wall. When these caterpillars are 
shut up in a box with some moss, without earth, 
they construct with it cells in form of a hollow ball, 
very prettily plaited and interwoven. 




Moss-Cell of Small Caterpillar ( Bryophilaperla ?) 



In May last (1829), we found on the walls of 
Greenwich Park, a great number of caterpillars 
whose manners bore some resemblance to those of 
the grub described by M. Reaumur*. They were 
of middle size, with a dull orange stripe along the 
back ; the head and sides of the body black, and the 
belly greenish. Their abodes were constructed with 
ingenuity and care. A caterpillar of this sort ap- 
pears to choose either a part where the mortar con- 
tains a cavity, or it digs one suited to its design. 
Over the opening of the hollow in the mortar, it 







* J. R. 







builds an arched wall so as to form a chamber consi- 
derably larger than is usual with other architect ca- 
terpillars. It selects grains of mortar, brick, or 
lichen, fixing them, by means of silk, firmly into the 
structure. As some of these vaulted walls were 
from an inch to an inch and a half long, and about a 
third of an inch wide and deep, it may be well 
imagined that it would require no little industry and 
labour to complete the work. Yet it does not de- 
mand more than a few hours for the insect to raise it 
from the foundation. Like all other insect architects, 
this caterpillar uses its own body for a measuring 
rule, and partly for a mould, or rather a block or 
centre to shape the walls by, curving itself round and 
round concentrically with the arch which it is building. 

We afterwards found one of these caterpillars 
which had dug a cell in one of the softest of the 
bricks, covering itself on the outside with an arched 
wall of brick dust, cemented with silk. As this brick 
was of a bright red colour, we were thereby able to 
ascertain that there was not a particle of lichen em- 
ployed in the structure. 

The neatness mentioned by Reaumur, as remark- 
able in his moss-building caterpillars, is equally ob- 
servable in that which we have just described ; for, on 
looking at the surface of the wall, it would be impos- 
sible for a person unacquainted with these structures 
to detect where they were placed, as they are usually, 
on the outside, level with the adjoining brick-work, and 
it is only when they are opened by the entomologist, 
that the little architect is perceived lying snug in his 
chamber. If a portion of the wall be thus broken 
down, the caterpillar loses no time in repairing the 
breach, by piecing in bits of mortar and fragments of 
lichen, till we can scarcely distinguish the new por- 
tion from the old. 





There is a very interesting class of grubs which 
live under water, where they construct for themselves 
moveable tents of various materials as their habits 
direct them, or as the substances they require can be 
conveniently procured. Among the materials used 
by these singular grubs, well known to fishermen by 
the name of caddis-worms , and to naturalists as the 
larvce of the four-winged flies in the order Trichop- 
tera, we may mention sand, stones, shells, wood, and 
leaves, which are skilfully joinedand strongly cemented. 
One of these grubs forms a pretty case of leaves 
glued together longitudinally, but leaving an aper- 
ture sufficiently large for the inhabitant to put out its 
head and shoulders when it wishes to look about for 




Leaf Nest of Caddis-Worm. 

food. Another employs pieces of reed cut into con- 
venient lengths, or of grass, straw, wood, &c., care- 
fully joining and cementing each piece to its fellpw 
as the work proceeds ; and he frequently finishes the 








Reed Nest of Caddis- Worn, 







whole by adding a broad piece longer than the rest 
to shade his door-way over-head, so that he may not 
be seen from above. A more laborious structure is 
reared by the grub of a beautiful caddis-fly ( Phry - 
ganea), which weaves together a group of the leaves 
of aquatic plants into a roundish ball, and in the in- 
terior of this forms a cell for its abode. The fol- 
lowing figure from Roesel will give a more precise 
notion of this structure than a lengthened description. 




Another of these aquatic architects makes choice 
of the tiny shells of young fresh-water mussels and 
snails ( [Planorbis ), to form a moveable grotto, and 
as these little shells are for the most part inhabited, 
he keeps the poor animals close prisoners, and drags 




Shell Nests of Caddis-Worms. 







them without mercy along’ with him. These grotto- 
building’ grubs are by no means uncommon in ponds ; 
and in chalk districts, such as the country about 
Woolwich and Gravesend, they are very abundant. 

One of the most surprising instances of their 
skill occurs in the structures of which small stones 
are the principal material. The problem is to make 
a tube about the width of the hollow of a wheat 
straw or a crow quill, and equally smooth and 
uniform. Now the materials being small stones full 
of angles and irregularities, the difficulty of per- 
forming this problem will appear to be considerable, 
if not insurmountable ; yet the little architects, by 
patiently examining their stones and turning them 
round on every side, never fail to accomplish their 
plans. This, however, is only part of the pro- 








blem, which is complicated with another condition, 
and which we have not found recorded by former 
observers, namely, that the under surface shall be 
flat and smooth, without any projecting angles which 
might impede its progress when dragged along the 
bottom of the rivulet where it resides. The selection 
of the stones, indeed, may be accounted for, from this 
species living in streams where, but for the weight of 
its house, it Avould to a certainty be swept away. For 
this purpose, it is probable that the grub makes 
choice of larger stones than it might otherwise want ; 
and therefore also it is that we frequently find a case 
composed of very small stones and sand, to which 




Sand Nest balanced with a Stone. 







when nearly finished, a large stone is added by way 
of ballast. In other instances, when the materials 
are found to possess too great specific gravity, a bit 
of light wood, or a hollow straw, is added to buoy 
up the case. 




Nest of Caddis-Worm, balanced with Straws. 

It is worthy of remark, that the cement, used 
in all these cases, is superior to pozzolana * in stand- 
ing water, in which it is indissoluble. The grubs 
themselves are also admirably adapted for their 
mode of life, the portion of their bodies which is always 
enclosed in the case, being soft like a meal-worm, or 
garden caterpillar, while the head and shoulders, 
which are for the most part projected beyond the 
door-way in search of food, are firm, hard, and con- 
sequently less liable to injury than the protected por- 
tion, should it chance to be exposed. 

We have repeatedly tried experiments with the in- 
habitants of those aquatic tents, to ascertain their 
mode of building. We have deprived them of their 
little houses, and furnished them with materials for 
constructing new ones, watching their proceedings 
from their laying the first stone or shell of the struc- 
ture. They work at the commencement in a very 
clumsy manner , attaching a great number of chips 
to whatever materials may be within their reach with 
loose threads of silk, and many of these they never 
use at all in their perfect building. They act, indeed, 
much like an unskilful workman trying his hand be- 
fore committing himself upon an intended work of 
difficult execution. Their main intention is, however, 
to have abundance of materials within reach : for 
after their dwelling is fairly begun, they shut them 

* A cement prepared of volcanic earth, or lava. 







selves up in it, and do not again protrude more than 
half of their body to procure materials; and even 
when they have dragged a stone, a shell, or a chip of 
reed within building reach, they have often to reject it 
as unfit*. 

Carpenter-Caterpillars. 

Insects, though sometimes actuated by an instinct 
apparently blind, unintelligent, or unknown to them- 
selves, manifest in other instances a remarkable adap- 
tation of means to ends. We have it in our power to 
exemplify this in a striking manner by the proceed- 
ings of the caterpillar of a goat-moth ( Cossus ligni- 
perda ) which we kept till it underwent its final 
change. 




Caterpillar of Goat-Moth in a JVillow Tree. 



This caterpillar, which abounds in Kent and many 
other parts of the island, feeds on the wood of 
willows, oaks, poplars, and other trees, in which it 
eats extensive galleries ; but it is not contented with 
the protection afforded by these galleries during 

* J. R. 







the colder months of winter, before the arrival of 
which it scoops out a hollow in the tree, if it do not 
find one ready prepared, sufficiently large to contain 
its body in a bent or somewhat coiled up position. 
On sawing off a portion of an old poplar in the 
winter of 1827, we found such a cell with a cater- 
pillar coiled up in it. 




JVinter Nest of the Goat-Caterpillar. 



It had not, however, been contented with the bare 
walls of the retreat which it had hewn out of the tree, 
for it had lined it with a fabric as thick as coarse 
broad-cloth, and equally warm, composed of the rasp- 
ings of the wood scooped out of the cell, united with the 
strong silk which every species of caterpillar can spin. 
In this snug retreat our caterpillar, if it had not been 
disturbed, would have spent the winter without eat- 
ing ; but upon being removed into a warm room and 
placed under a glass along with some piece's of wood, 
which it might eat if so inclined, it was roused for a 
time from its dormant state, and began to move 
about. It was not long, however, in constructing a 
new cell for itself, no less ingenious that the former. 
It either could not gnaw into the fir plank, where it 
was now placed with a glass above it, or it did not 
choose to do so ; for it left it untouched, and made it 
the basis of the edifice it began to construct. It 







formed, in fact, a covering; for itself precisely like the 
one from which we had dislodged it, — composed of 
raspings of wood detached for the purpose from 
what had been given it as food, — the largest piece of 
which was employed as a substantial covering and 
protection for the whole. It remained in this retreat, 
motionless, and without food, till revived by the 
warmth of the ensuing spring, when it gnawed its 
way out, and began to eat voraciously, to make up 
for its long fast. 

These caterpillars are three years in arriving at 
their final change into the winged state ; but as the 
one just mentioned was nearly full grown, it began, 
in the month of May, to prepare a cell, in which it 
might undergo its metamorphosis. Whether it had 
actually improved its skill in architecture by its pre- 
vious experience we will not undertake to say, but its 
second cell was greatly superior to the first. In the 
first there was only one large piece of wood em- 
ployed ; in the second, two pieces were placed in 
such a maimer as to support each other, and beneath 
the angle thus formed, an oblong structure was made, 
composed, as before, of wood-raspings and silk, but 
much stronger in texture than the winter cell. In a 
few weeks (four, if we recollect aright) the moth 
came forth*. 




Nest of Goat-Moth . — Figured from specimen, and raised to show the Pupa. 

* J.R. 



 



A wood-boring caterpillar, of a species of moth 
much rarer than the preceding ( ZEgeria asiliformis, 
Stephens), exhibits great ingenuity in construct- 
ing a cell for its metamorphosis. We observed 
above a dozen of them during this summer (1829) 
in the trunk of a poplar, one side of which had 
been stripped of its bark. It was this portion of 
the trunk which all the caterpillars selected for 
their final retreat, not one having been observed 
where the tree was covered with bark. The inge- 
nuity of the little architect consisted in scooping its 
cell almost to the very surface of the wood, leaving 
only an exterior covering of unbroken wood, as thin 
as writing paper. Previous, therefore, to the chry- 
salis making its way through this feeble barrier, it 
could not have been suspected that an insect was 
lodged under the smooth wood. We observed more 
than one of these in the act of breaking through this 
covering, within which there is besides a round move- 
able lid of a sort of brown wax*. 

Another architect caterpillar, frequently to be met 
with in July on the leaves of the willow and the 
poplar, is, in the fly state, called the Puss-Moth 
(Centra vinula). The caterpillar is produced from 
brown-coloured shining eggs, about the size of a 
pin’s head, which are deposited — one, two, or 
more together — on the upper surface of a leaf. 
In the course of six or eight weeks (during which 
time it casts its skin thrice) it arrives at its full 




Eggs of the Puss- Moth. 

* J. R. 







growth, when it is about as thick, and nearly as 
long, as a man’s thumb, and begins to prepare a 
structure in which the pupa may sleep securely 
during the winter. As we have, oftener than once, 
seen this little architect at work, from the foundation 
till the completion of its edifice, we are thereby ena- 
bled to give the details of the process. 

The puss, it may be remarked, does not depend 
for protection on the hole of a tree, or the shelter of 
an overhanging branch, but upon the solidity and 
strength of the fabric which it rears. The material 
it commonly uses is the bark of the tree upon which 
the cell is constructed ; but when this cannot be pro- 
cured, it is contented to employ whatever analogous 
materials may be within reach. One which we had 
shut up in a box substituted the marble paper 
it was lined with, for bark, which it could not pro- 
cure*. With silk it first wove a thin web round the 

* It is justly remarked by Reaumur, that when caterpillars 
are left at liberty among their native plants, it is only by lucky 
chance they can be observed building their cocoons, because the 
greater number abandon the plants upon which they have been 
feeding, to spin up in places at some distance. In order to see 
their operations they must be kept in confinement, particularly in 
boxes, wdth glazed doors, where they may be always under the eye 
of the naturalist. In such circumstances, however, we may be 
ignorant what building materials we ought to provide them with 
for their structures. A red caterpillar, with a few tufts of hair, 
which Reaumur found in July feeding upon the flower bunches 
of the nettle, and refusing to touch the leaves, began in a few days 
to prepare its cocoon, by gnawing the paper lid of the box in 
which it w : as placed. This, of course, was a material which it 
could not have procured in the fields, but it was the nearest in 
properties that it could procure ; for though it had the leaves and 
stems of nettles, it never used a single fragment of either. When 
Reaumur found that it was likely to gnaw through the paper lid 
of the box, and might effect its escape, he furnished it with bits 
of rumpled paper, fixed to the lid by means of a pin ; and these 
it chopped down into such pieces as it judged convenient for its 
structure, which it took a day to complete. The moth appeared 

S 







edges of the place which it marked out for its edi- 
fice ; then it ran several threads in a sparse manner 
from side to side, and from end to end, but very 
irregularly in point of arrangement : these were in- 
tended for the skeleton or frame-work of the building. 




When this outline was finished, the next step was to 
strengthen each thread of silk, by adding several 
(sometimes six or eight) parallel ones, all of which 
were then glued together into a single thread, by 
the insect running its mandibles, charged with 
gluten, along the line. The meshes, or spaces, 
which were thus widened by the compression of the 
parallel threads, were immediately filled up with 
fresh threads, till at length only very small spaces 
were left. It was in this stage of the operation that 
the paper came into requisition, small portions of it 
being gnawed off the box and glued into the meshes. 
It was not, however, into the meshes only that the 
bits of paper were inserted ; for the whole fabric was 
in the end thickly studded over with them. In about 
half a day from the first thread of the frame-work 
being spun the building was completed. It was at 
first, however, rather soft, and yielded to slight pres- 
sure with the finger ; but as soon as it became 

four weeks after, of a brownish-black colour, mottled with white, 
or rather grey, in the manner of lace. 

Bonnet also mentions more than one instance in which he 
observed caterpillars making use of paper, when they could not 
procure other materials. 







thoroughly dry, it was so hard that it could with 
difficulty be penetrated with the point of a penknife*. 



A question will here suggest itself to the curious 
inquirer, how the moth, which is not, like the cater- 
pillar, furnished with mandibles for gnawing, can find 
its way through so hard a wall. To resolve this 
question, it is asserted by recent naturalists (see Kirby 
and Spence, vol. iii. p. 15), that the moth is furnished 
with a peculiar acid for dissolving itself a passage. We 
have a specimen of the case of a puss-moth, in which, 
notwithstanding its strength, one of the ichneumons 
had contrived to deposit its eggs. In the beginning of 
summer, when we expected the moth to appear, and 
felt anxious to observe the recorded effects of the 
acid, we were astonished to find a large orange 
cuckoo-fly make its escape ; while another, which at- 
tempted to follow, stuck by the way and died. On 
detaching the cell from the box, we found several 
others, which had not been able to get out, and had 
died in their cocoons t. 




Cell built by the Larva of the Puss-Moth. 




Ichneumon ( [Ophion lutcum ) figured from the one mentioned. 






* J. R. 



f J. R. 


 

Among' the carpenter-grubs may be mentioned 
that of the purple capricorn-beetle ( Callidium viola - 
ceurn ), of which the Rev. Mr. Kirby has given an 
interesting account in the fifth volume of the Lin- 
nean Transactions. This insect feeds principally 
on fir timber, which has been felled some time with- 
out having had the bark stripped off ; but it is often 
found on other wood. Though occasionally taken in 
this kingdom, it is supposed not to have been ori- 
ginally a native. The circumstance of this destruc- 
tive little animal attacking only such timber as had 
not been stripped of its bark ought to be attended 
to by all persons who have any concern in this article; 
for the bark is a temptation not only to this, but 
to various other insects ; and much of the injury 
done in timber might be prevented, if the trees were 
all barked as soon as they were felled. The female 
is furnished, at the posterior extremity of her body, 
with a flat retractile tube, which she inserts between 
the bark and the wood, to the depth of about a quar- 
ter of an inch, and there deposits a single egg. By 
stripping off the bark, it is easy to trace the whole 
progress of the grub, from the spot where it is 
hatched, to that where it attains its full size. It first 
proceeds in a serpentine direction, filling the space 
which it leaves with its excrement, resembling saw-dust, 
and so stopping all ingress to enemies from without. 
When it has arrived at its utmost dimensions, it does 
not confine itself to one direction, but works in a kind 
of labyrinth, eating backwards and forwards, which 
gives the wood under the bark a very irregular sur- 
face; by this means its paths are rendered of con- 
siderable width. The bed of its paths exhibits, when 
closely examined, a curious appearance, occasioned 
by the gnawings of its jaws, which excavate an infinity 
of little ramified canals. When the insect is about to 
assume its chrysalis state, it bores down obliquely 







into the solid wood, to the depth sometimes of three 
inches, and seldom if ever less than two, forming 
holes nearly semi-cylindrical, and of exactly the form 
of the grub which inhabits them. At first sight one 
would wonder how so small and seemingly so weak 
an animal could have strength to excavate so deep a 
mine ; but when we examine its jaws our wonder 
ceases. These are large, thick, and solid sections of a 
cone divided longitudinally, which, in the act of 
chewing, apply to each other the whole of their inte- 
rior plane surface, so that they grind the insect’s 
food like a pair of millstones. Some of the grubs are 
hatched in October ; and it is supposed that about 
the beginning of March they assume their chrysalis 
state. At the place in the bark, opposite to the hole 
from whence they descended into the wood, the per- 
fect insects gnaw their way out, which generally takes 
place betwixt the middle of May and the middle of 
June. These insects are supposed to fly only in 
the night, but during the day they may generally be 
found resting on the wood from which they were 
disclosed. The grubs are destitute of feet, pale, fold- 
ed, somewhat hairy, convex above, and divided into 
thirteen segments. Their head is large and convex.* 
It would not be easy to find a more striking ex- 
ample of ingenuity than occurs in a small caterpillar 
which may be found in May, on the oak, and is sup- 
posed, by Kirby and Spence, to be that of th ePyralis 
strigulalis. It is of a whitish yellow colour, tinged 
with a shade of carnation, and studded with tufts of 
red hairs, on each segment, and two brown spots be- 
hind the head. It has fourteen feet, and the upper 
part of its body is much flatter than is common in 
caterpillars. When this ingenious little insect begins 
to form its cell, it selects a smooth young branch 

* Kirby in Linn. Trans, vol. v. p. 246, and Introd. ii. 





of the oak, near an offgoing of the branchlets whose 
angle may afford it some protection. It then measures 
out, with its body for a rule, the space destined for 
its structure, the basement of which is of a triangular 
form, with the apex at the lower end. The building 
itself is composed of small rectangular strap-shaped 
pieces of the outer bark of the branch cut out from 
the immediate -vicinity ; the insect indeed never tra- 
vels farther for materials than the length of its own 
body. Upon the two longest sides of the triangular 
base it builds uniform walls, also of a triangular 
shape, and both gradually diverging from each other 
as they increase in height. These are formed with 
so much mathematical precision, that they fit exactly 
when they are afterwards brought into contact. As 
soon as the little architect has completed these walls, 
which resemble very much the feathers of an arrow, 




Magnified Cells of Pyralis Strigulalis? 

a. The walls before they are joined, b. Walls joined, but not 
closed at top. c. Side view of structure complete. 











it proceeds to draw them together in a manner si- 
milar to that which the leaf-rolling caterpillars employ 
in constructing their abodes, by pulling them with 
silken cords till they bend and converge. Even 
when the two longest sides are thus joined, there is 
an opening left at the upper end, which is united in 
a similar manner. When the whole is finished, it re- 
quires close inspection to distinguish it from the 
branch, being formed of the same materials, and 
having consequently the same colour and gloss. 
Concealment, indeed, may be supposed, with some 
justice, to be the final object of the insect in pro- 
ducing this appearance, the same principle being ex- 
tensively exemplified in numerous other instances. 


 

Many species of caterpillars are not only skilful 
in concealing themselves in their cocoons, but also 
in the concealment of the cocoon itself; so that 
even when that is large, as in the instance of the 
death’s-head hawk-moth ( Acherontia atropos ), it is 
almost impossible to find it. We allude to the 
numerous class of caterpillars which, previous to 
their changing into the pupa state, bury themselves 
in the earth. This circumstance would not be sur- 
prising, were it confined to those which are but too 
well known in gardens, from their feeding upon and 
destroying the roots of lettuce, chicory, and other 
plants, as they pass a considerable portion of their 
lives under ground ; nor is it surprising that those 
which retire under ground during the day, and come 
abroad to feed in the night, should form their cocoons 
where they have been in the habit of concealing 
themselves. But it is very singular and unexpected, 
that caterpillars, which pass the whole of their life on 
plants, and even on trees, should afterwards bury 
themselves in the earth. Yet, the fact is, that per- 
haps a greater number make their cocoons under 
than above ground, particularly those which are not 
clothed with hair. 

Some of those caterpillars, which go into the 
ground previous to their change, make no cocoon at 
all, but are contented with a rude masonry of earth 
as a nest for their pupae : into the details of their 
operations it will not be so necessary for us to 
go, as into those which exhibit more ingenuity 






and care. When one of the latter is dug* up, it 
has the appearance of nothing' more than a small 
clod of earth, of a roundish or oblong shape, but, 
generally, by no means uniform. The interior, how- 
ever, when it is laid open, always exhibits a cavity, 
smooth, polished, and regular, in which the cocoon, or 
the chrysalis lies secure. (Fig. p. 202, b). The polish 
of the interior is precisely such as might be given to soft 
earth by moistening and kneading it with great care. 
But beside this, it is usually lined with a tapestry of 
silk, more or less thick, though this cannot always 
be discovered without the aid of a magnifying glass. 
This species of caterpillars, as soon as they have 
completed their growth, go into the earth, scoop 
out, as the cossus does in wood, a hollow cell of an 
oblong form, and-line it with pellets of earth, from 
the size of a grain of sand to that of a pea — united, 
by silk or gluten, into a fabric more or less compact, 
according to the species, but all of them fitted for 
protecting the inhabitant, during its winter sleep, 
against cold and moisture. 




Outside View of Nests of Earth-mason Caterpillars. 



One of the examples of this occurs in the ghost- 
moth ( Hepialus humuh ), which, before it retires into 
the earth, feeds upon the roots of the hop or the 
burdock. Like other insects which construct cells 
under ground, it lines the cemented earthen walls 
of its cell with a smooth tapestry of silk, as closely 
woven as the web of the house-spider. 

Inaccurate observers have inferred that these 







Nests, fyc.,of an Earth-mason Caterpillar. 

earthen structures were formed by a very rude and 
unskilful process — the caterpillar, according to them, 
doing nothing more than roll itself round, while the 
mould adhered to the gluey, perspiration with which 
they describe its body to be covered. This is a 
process as far from the truth, as Aristotle’s account 
of the spider spinning its web from wool taken from 
its body. Did the caterpillar do nothing more than 
roll itself in the earth, the cavity would be a long 
tube fitted exactly to its body {fig. c ) : it is essentially 
different. 

It does not indeed require very minute observation 
to perceive, that every grain of earth in the structure 
is united to the contiguous grains by threads of silk ; 
and that consequently, instead of the whole having been 
done at once, it must have required very considerable 








time and labour. This construction is rendered 
more obvious by throwing one of these earthen cases 
into water, which dissolves the earth, but does not 
act on the silk which binds it together. To under- 
stand how this is performed, it may not be unin- 
teresting to follow the little mason from the begin- 
ning of his task. 

When one of those burrowing caterpillars has 
done feeding, it enters the earth to the depth of 
several inches, till it finds mould fit for its pur- 
pose. Having nowhere to throw the earth which 
it may dig out, the only means in its power of 
forming a cavity is to press it with its body ; and, 
by turning round and round for this purpose, an 
oblong hollow is soon made. But were it left in this 
state, as Reaumur well remarks, though the vault 
might endure the requisite time by the viscosity of 
the earth alone, were no change to take place in its 
humidity, yet, as a great number are wanted to 
hold out for six, eight, and ten months, they require 
to be substantially built; a mere lining of silk, there- 
fore, would not be sufficient, and it becomes necessary 
to have the walls bound with silk to some thickness. 

When a caterpillar cannot find earth sufficiently 
moist to bear kneading into the requisite consistence, 
it has the means of moistening it with a fluid which 
it ejects for the purpose ; and as soon as it has thus 
prepared a small pellet of earth, it fits it into the wall 
of the vault, and secures it with silk. As the little 
mason, however, always works on the inside of the 
building, it does not, at first view, appear in what 
manner it can procure materials for making one or 
two additional walls on the inside of the one first built. 
As the process takes place under ground, it is not 
easy to discover the particulars, for the caterpillars 
will not work in glazed boxes. The difficulty was 
completely overcome by M. Reaumur, in the instance 







of the caterpillar of the water-betony moth ( Cu - 
c.uliia scrophularitz, Schrauk), which he permitted 
to construct the greater part of its underground 
building, and then dug it up and broke a portion off 
from the end, leaving about a third part of the whole 
to be rebuilt. Those who are unacquainted with the 
instincts of insects might have supposed that, being 
disturbed by the demolition of its walls, it would 
have left off work ; but the stimulus of providing for 
the great change is so powerful, that scarcely any 
disturbance will interrupt a caterpillar in this species 
of labour. 

The little builder accordingly was not long in re- 
commencing its task for the purpose of repairing the 
disorder, which it accomplished in about four hours. 
At first it protruded its body almost entirely beyond 
the breach which had been made, to reconnoitre the 
exterior for building materials. Earth was put with- 
in its reach, of the same kind as it had previously 
used, and it was not long in selecting a grain adapted 
to its purpose, which it fitted into the wall and secured 
with silk. It first enlarged the outside of the wall 
by the larger and coarser grains, and then selected 
finer- for the interior. But before it closed the aper- 
ture, it collected a quantity of earth on the inside, 
wove a pretty thick network tapestry of silk over the 
part which remained open, and into the meshes of 
this, by pushing and pressing, it thrust grains of 
earth, securing them with silk till the whole was ren- 
dered opaque ; and the further operations of the in- 
sect could no longer be watched, except that it was 
observed to keep in motion, finishing, no doubt, the 
silken tapestry of the interior of its little chamber. 
When it was completed, M. Reaumur ascertained 
that the portion of the structure which had been 
built under his eye was equally thick and compact 
with the other, which had been done under ground. 








Earth-Mason Caterpillars' Nests , with the perfect Moth , fyc. 

The grubs of several of the numerous species of 
may-fly ( Ephemera ) excavate burrows for themselves 
in soft earth, on the banks of rivers and canals, under 

 



the level of the water, an operation well described by 
Scopoli, Swammerdam, and Reaumur. The excava- 
tions are always proportioned to the size of the in- 
habitant ; and consequently, when it is young and 
small, the hole is proportionally small, though, with 
respect to extent, it is always at least double the 
length of its body. The hole, being under the level 
of the river, is always filled with water, so that the 
grub swims in its native element, and while it is se- 
cure from being preyed upon by fishes, it has its own 
food within easy reach. It feeds, in fact, if we may 
judge from its egesta, upon the slime or moistened 
clay with which its hole is lined. 




Nests of the Grubs of Ephemera. 



A. The grub. B. Perforations in a river bank. C. One laid 
open to show the parallel structure. 

In the bank of the stream at Lee in Kent, we had 
occasion to take up an old willow stump, which, pre- 
vious to its being driven into the bank, had been per- 
forated in numerous places by the caterpillar of the 







goat-moth (Cossus ligniperda). From having- been 
driven amongst the moist clay, these perforations be- 
came filled with it, and the grubs of the ephemerae 
found them very suitable for their habitation ; for the 
wood supplied a more secure protection than if their 
galleries had been excavated in the clay. In these 
holes of the wood we found several empty, and some 
in which were full grown grubs*. 




IVnsts of Ephemera in holes of Cossus. 

The architecture of the grub of a pretty genus of 
beetles, known to entomologists by the name of Ci- 
cindela , is peculiarly interesting. It was first made 
known by the eminent French naturalists, Geoffroy, 
Desmarest, and Latreille. This grub, which may 
be met with during spring, and also in summer 
and autumn, in sandy places, is long, cylindric, soft, 
whitish, and furnished with six brown scaly feet. The 
head is of a square form, with six or eight eyes, 
and very large in proportion to the body. They have 
strong jaws, and on the eighth joint of the body there 
are two fleshy tubercles, thickly clothed with reddish 
hairs, and armed with a recurved horny spine, the 
whole giving to the grub the form of the letter Z. 

With their jaws and feet they dig into the earth to 
the depth of eighteen inches, forming a cylindrical 
cavity of greater diameter than their body, and fur- 
nished with a perpendicular entrance. In construct- 

* J. R. 







ing this, the grub first clears away the particles of' 
earth and sand by placing them on its broad trape- 
zoidal head, and carrying the load in this manner be- 
yond the area of the excavation. When it gets deeper 
down, it climbs gradually up to the surface with simi- 
lar loads by means of the tubercles on its back, above 
described. This process is a work of considerable 
time and difficulty, and in carrying its loads, the in- 
sect has often to rest by the way to recover strength 
for a renewed exertion. Not unfrequently, it finds 
the soil so ill adapted to its operations, that it aban- 
dons the task altogether, and begins anew in another 
situation. When it has succeeded in forming a com- 
plete den, it fixes itself at the entrance by the hooks 
of its tubercles, which are admirably adapted for the 
purpose, forming a fulcrum or support, while the 
broad plate on the top of the head exactly fits the 
aperture of the excavation, and is on a level with the 
soil. In this position, the grub remains immovable, 
with jaws expanded, and ready to seize and devour 
every insect which may wander within its reach, par- 
ticularly the smaller beetles ; and its voracity is so 
great, that it does not spare even its own species. It 
precipitates its prey into the excavation, and in case 
of danger, it retires to the bottom of its den, a cir- 
cumstance which renders it not a little difficult to 
discover the grub. The method adopted by the French 
naturalists was to introduce a straw or pliant twig 
into the hole, while they dug away, by degrees and 
with great care, the earth around it, and usually found 
the grub at the bottom of the cell, resting in a zig- 
zag position like one of the caterpillars of the geo- 
metric moths. 

When it is about to undergo its transformation 
into a pupa, it carefully closes the mouth of the den, 
and retires to the bottom in security. 

It does not appear that the grub of the genus 







Cicindela uses the excavation just described for the 
purpose of a trap or pitfall, any further than that it 
can more effectually secure its prey by tumbling them 
down into it ; but there are other species of grubs 
which construct pitfalls for the express purpose of 
traps. Among these is the larva of a fly ( Rhagio 
vermileo ), not unlike the common flesh maggot. 
The den which it constructs is in the form of a 
funnel, the sides of which are composed of sand or 
loose earth. It forms this pitfall of considerable 
depth, by throwing out the earth obliquely on all 
sides ; and when its trap is finished, it stretches it- 
self along the bottom, remaining stiff and motionless, 
like a piece of wood. The last segment of the body 
is bent at an angle with the rest, so as to form a 
strong point of support in the struggles which it must 
often have to encounter with vigorous prey. The 
instant that an insect tumbles into the pitfall, the 
grub pounces upon it, writhes itself round it like a 
serpent, transfixes it with its jaws, and sucks its 
juices at its ease. Should the prey by any chance 
escape, the grub hurls after it jets of sand and earth, 
with astonishing rapidity and force, and not unfre- 
quently succeeds in again precipitating it to the 
bottom of its trap. 

The Ant-Lion. 

The observations of the continental naturalists 
have made known to us a pitfall constructed by an 
insect, the details of whose operations are exceed- 
ingly curious — we refer to the grub of the ant-lion 
(Myrmeleon formicarius), which, though marked by 
Dr. Turton and Mr. Stewart as British, has not (at 
least of late years) been found in this country. As 
it is not, however, uncommon in France and Swit- 

t 3 







zerland, it is probable it may yet be discovered in 
some spot hitherto unexplored, and if so, it will well 
reward the research of the curious. 

The ant-lion grub being of a grey colour, and hav- 
ing its body composed of rings, is not unlike a wood- 
louse ( Oniscus ), though it is larger, more triangular, 
has only six legs, and most formidable jaws, in form 
of a reaping-hook, or a pair of calliper compases. 
These jaws, however, are not for masticating, but 
are perforated and tubular, for the purpose of suck- 
ing the juices of ants upon which it feeds. Vallisnieri 
was, therefore, mistaken, as Reaumur well remarks, 
when he supposed that he had discovered its mouth. 
Its habits require that it should w alk backwards, and 
this is the only species of locomotion which it can 
perform. Even this sort of motion it executes very 
slowly ; and were it not for the ingenuity of its 
stratagems, it would fare but sparingly, since its 
chief food consists of ants, whose activity and swift- 
ness of foot would otherwise render it impossible 
for it to make a single capture. Nature, however, 
in this, as in nearly every other case, has given a 
compensating power to the individual animal, to 
balance its privations. The ant-lion is slow — but it 
is extremely sagacious ; — it cannot follow its prey, 
but it can entrap it. 

The snare which the grub of the ant-lion employs 
consists of a funnel-shaped excavation formed in 
loose sand, at the bottom of which it lies in wait for 
the ants that chance to stumble over the margin, and 
cannot, from the looseness of the walls, gain a suffi- 
cient footing to effect their escape. When the pit- 
fall is intended to be small, it only thrusts its body 
backwards into the sand as far as it can, throwing 
out at intervals the particles which fall in upon it, 
till it is rendered of the requisite depth. 

By shutting up one of these grubs in a box with 








Grub of the Ant-Lion magnified , with one perfect Trap, 
and another begun. 

loose sand, it has been repeatedly observed con- 
structing its trap of various dimensions, from one to 
three inches in diameter, according to circumstances. 
When it intends to make one of considerable diame- 
ter, it proceeds as methodically as the most skil- 
ful architect or engineer amongst ourselves. It 
first examines the nature of the soil, whether it be 
sufficiently dry and fine for its purpose, and if 
so, it begins by tracing out a circle, where the 
mouth of its funnel-trap is intended to be. Having 
thus marked the limits of its pit, it proceeds to 
scoop out the interior. Getting within the circle, 
and using one of its legs as a shovel, it places there- 
with a load of sand on the flat part of its head, and 
it throws the whole with a jerk some inches beyond 
the circle. It is worthy of remark that it only uses 



 



one leg in this operation — the one, namely, which is 
nearest the centre of the circle. Were it to employ 
the others in digging away the sand, it would en- 
croach upon the regularity of its plan. Working 
with great industry and adroitness in the manner 
we have just described, it quickly makes the round of 
its circle, and as it works backwards it soon arrives 
at the point where it had commenced. Instead, 
however, of proceeding from this point in the same 
direction as before, it wheels about and works a 
round in the contrary direction, and in this way it 
avoids throwing all the fatigue of the labour on one 
leg, alternating them every round of the- circle. 




Ant-Lion's Pitfalls, in an e.rperimenting-box. 

Were there nothing to scoop out but sand or loose 
earth, the little engineer would have only to repeat 
the operations we have described, till it had completed 
the whole. But it frequently happens in the course 
of its labours, sometimes even when they are near a 
close, that it will meet with a stone of some size which 
would, if suffered to remain, injure materially the 
perfection of its trap. But such obstacles as this do 
not prevent the insect from proceeding : on the con- 
trary, it redoubles its assiduity to remove the ob- 
struction, as M. Bonnet repeatedly witnessed. If the 
stone be small, it can manage to jerk it out in the 
same manner as the sand ; but when it is two or 







three times larger and heavier than its own body, it 
must have recourse to other means of removal. The 
larger stones it usually leaves till the last, and when 
it has removed all the sand which it intends, it then 
proceeds to try what it can do with the less manage- 
able obstacles. For this purpose, it crawls backwards 
to the place where a stone may be, and thrusting its 
tail under it, is at great pains to get it properly ba- 
lanced on its back, by an alternate motion of the 
rings composing its body. When it has succeeded 
in adjusting the stone, it crawls up the side of the pit 
with great care and deposits its burden on the out- 
side of the circle. Should the stone happen to be 
round, the balance can be kept only with the greatest 
difficulty, as it has to travel with its load upon a 
slope of loose sand which is ready to give way at 
every step ; and often when the insect has carried it to 
the very brink it rolls off its back and tumbles down 
to the bottom of the pit. This accident, so far from 
discouraging the ant-lion, only stimulates it to more 
persevering efforts. Bonnet observed it renew these 
attempts to dislodge a stone, five or six times. It 
is only when it finds it utterly impossible to suc- 
ceed, that it abandons the design and commences 
another pit in a fresh situation. When it succeeds in 
getting a stone beyond the line of its circle, it is not 
contented with letting it rest there ; but to prevent it 
from again rolling in, it goes on to push it to a con- 
siderable distance. 

The pitfall, when finished, is usually about three 
inches in diameter at the top, about two inches deep, 
and gradually contracting into a point in the manner 
of a cone or funnel. In the bottom of this pit the 
ant-lion stations itself to watch for its prey. Should an 
ant or any other insect wander within the verge of the 
funnel, it can scarcely fail to dislodge and roll down 
some particles of sand, which will give notice to the 







ant-lion below to be on the alert. In order to secure 
the prey, Reaumur, Bonnet, and others have observed 
the ingenious insect throw up showers of sand by 
jerking it from his head in quick succession, till the 
luckless ant is precipitated within reach of the jaws 
of its concealed enemy. It feeds only on the blood 
or juice of insects ; and as soon as it has extracted 
these, it tosses the dry carcase out of its den. Its 
next care is to mount the sides of the pitfall arid re- 
pair any damage it may have suffered ; and when this 
is accomplished, it again buries itself among the sand 
at the bottom, leaving nothing but its jaws above the 
surface, ready to seize the next victim. 

When it is about to change into a pupa, it pro- 
ceeds in nearly the same manner as the caterpillar of 
the water-betony moth ( Cucullia scrophularice). It 
first builds a case of sand, the particles of which 
are secured by threads of silk, and then tapestries the 
whole with a silken web. Within this it undergoes 
its transformation into a pupa, and in due time, it 
emerges in form of a four-winged fly, closely resem- 
bling the dragon-flies ( Libellulce ), vulgarly and erro- 
neously called horse-stingers. 

The instance of the ant-lion naturally leads us to 
consider the design of the Author of Nature in so 
nicely adjusting, in all animals, the means of de- 
struction and of escape. As the larger quadrupeds 
of prey are provided with a most ingenious machi- 
nery for preying on the weaker, so are these furnished 
with the most admirable powers of evading their 
destroyers. In the economy of insects, we constantly 
observe, that the means of defence, not only of the 
individual creatures, but of their larvae and pupae, 
against the attacks of other insects, and of birds, is 
proportioned, in the ingenuity of their arrangements, 
to the weakness of the insect employing them. Those 
species which multiply the quickest have the greatest 







number of enemies. Bradley, an English naturalist, 
has calculated that two sparrows carry, in the course 
of a week, above three thousand caterpillars to the 
young in their nests. But though this is, probably, 
much beyond the truth, it is certain that there is a 
great and constant destruction of individuals going 
forward ; and yet the species is never destroyed. In 
this way a balance is kept up, by which one portion 
of animated nature cannot usurp the means of life 
and enjoyment which the world offers to another 
portion. In all matters relating to reproduction, 
Nature is prodigal in her arrangements. Insects 
have more stages to pass through before they 
attain their perfect growth than other creatures. 
The continuation of the species is, therefore, in 
many cases, provided for by a much larger number 
of eggs being deposited than ever become fertile. 
How many larvae are produced, in comparison 
with the number which pass into the pupa state ; 
and how many pupae perish before they become 
perfect insects ! Every garden is covered with cater- 
pillars ; and yet how few moths and butterflies, com- 
paratively, are seen, even in the most sunny season ! 
Insects which lay few eggs are, commonly, most 
remarkable in their contrivances for their preserva- 
tion. The dangers to which insect life is exposed 
are manifold ; and therefore are the contrivances for 
its preservation of the most perfect kind, and inva- 
riably adapted to the peculiar habits of each tribe. 
The same wisdom determines the food of every spe- 
cies of insect ; and thus some are found to delight in 
the rose-tree, and some in the oak. Had it been 
otherwise, the balance of vegetable life would not 
have been preserved. It is for this reason that the 
contrivances which an insect employs for obtaining 
its food are curious, in proportion to the natural diffi- 
culties of its structure. The ant-lion is carnivorous, 





but he has not the quickness of the spider, nor can 
he spread a net over a large surface, and issue from 
his citadel to seize a victim which he has caught in 
his outworks. He is therefore taught to dig a trap, 
where he sits, like the unwieldy giants of fable, wait- 
ing for some feeble one to cross his path. How 
laborious and patient are his operations — how un- 
certain the chances of success ! Yet he never shrinks 
from them, because his instinct tells him that by 
these contrivances alone can he preserve his own ex- 
istence, and continue that of his species. 





There are at least five different species of moths 
similar in manners and economy, the caterpillars of 
which feed upon animal substances, such as furs, 
woollen cloths, silk, leather, and, what to the natu- 
ralist is no less vexing-, upon the specimens of insects 
and other animals preserved in his cabinet. The 
moths in question are of the family named Tinea by 
Entomologists, such as the tapestry moth ( Tinea ta 
petzella), the fur moth ( Tinea pellionella'), the wool 
moth ( Tinea vestianella ), the cabinet moth ( Tinea 
Destructor , Stephens), &c. 

The moths themselves are, in the winged state, 
small, and well fitted for making their way through 
the most minute hole or chink, so that it is scarcely 
possible to exclude them by the closeness of a ward- 
robe or a cabinet*. If they cannot effect an entrance 
when a drawer is out, or a door open, they will con- 
trive to glide through the key-hole ; and if they once 
get in, it is no easy matter to dislodge or destroy 
them, for they are exceedingly agile, and escape out 
of sight in a moment. Moufet is of opinion that the 
ancients possessed an effectual method of preserving 
stuffs from the moth, because the robes of Servius 
Tullius were preserved up to the death of Sejanus, 
a period of more than five hundred years. On turning 
to Pliny to learn this secret, we find him relating that 
stuff laid upon a coffin will be ever after safe from 

* See fig. d. } p, 221. 





moths ; in the same way as a person once stung by a 
scorpion will never afterwards be stung by a bee, or a 
wasp, or a hornet ! Rhasis again says, that cantha- 
rides suspended in a house drive away moths ; and, 
he adds, that they will not touch anything wrapped in 
a lion’s skin ! — the poor little insects, says Reaumur 
sarcastically, being probably in bodily fear of so ter- 
rible an animal*. Such are the stories which fill the 
imagination even of philosophers, till real science en- 
tirely expels them. 

The effluvium of camphor or turpentine may some- 
times kill them, when in the winged state, but this 
will have no effect upon their eggs, and seldom upon 
the caterpillars ; for they wrap themselves up too 
closely to be easily reached by any agent except heat. 
This, when it can be conveniently applied, will be 
certain either to dislodge or to kill them. When the 
effluvium of turpentine, however, reaches the cater- 
pillar, Bonnet says it falls into convulsions, becomes 
covered with livid blotches, and diest. 

The mother insect takes care to deposit her eggs 
on or near such substances as she instinctively fore- 
knows will be best adapted for the food of the young, 
taking care to distribute them so that there may be 
a plentiful supply and enough of room for each. We 
have found, for example, some of those caterpillars 
feeding upon the shreds of cloth used in training 
wall-fruit trees ; but we never saw more than two 
caterpillars on one shred. This scattering of the 
eggs in many places, renders the effects of the cater- 
pillars more injurious, from their attacking many 
parts of a garment or a piece of stuff at the same 
timej. 

When one of the caterpillars of this family issues 

* Reaumur, Mem. Hist. Insectes, iii. 70. 
f Contemplation do la Nature, part xii. chap, x. note. 







from the egg, its first care is to provide itself with a 
domicile, which indeed seems no less indispensable 
to it than food ; for, like all caterpillars that feed 
under cover, it will not eat while it remains unpro- 
tected. Its mode of building is very similar to that 
which is employed by other caterpillars that make 
use of extraneous materials. The foundation or 
frame-work is made of silk secreted by itself, and 
into this it interweaves portions of the material 
upon which it feeds. It is said by Bingley, that 
“ after having spun a fine coating of silk immediately 
around its body , it cuts the filaments of the wool or 
fur close by the thread of the cloth, or by the skin, 
with its teeth, which act in the manner of scissors, 
into convenient lengths, and applies the bits, one by 
one, with great dexterity, to the outside of its silken 
case*.” This statement, however, is erroneous, 
and inconsistent with the proceedings not only of 
the clothes moth, but of every caterpillar that con- 
structs a covering. None of these build from within 
outwards, but uniformly commence with the exterior 
wall, and finish by lining the interior with the finest 
materials. Reaumur, however, found that the newly- 
hatched caterpillars lived at first in a case of silk. 

We have repeatedly witnessed the proceedings of 
these insects from the very foundation of their struc- 
tures ; and, at the moment of writing this, we turned 
out one from the carcase of an “ old lady moth” 
(Mormo maura, Ochsenheim.), in our cabinet, and 
placed it on a desk covered with green cloth, where 
it might find materials for constructing another 
dwelling. It wandered about for half a day before 
it began its operations ; but it did not, as is asserted 
by Bonnet, and Kirby and Spence, “ in moving from 
place to place, seem to be as much incommoded by 

* Animal Biography, vol. iii. p. 330, 3d ed. 





the long' hairs which surrounded it, as we are by 
walking amongst high grass/’ nor “ accordingly, 
marching scythe in hand,” did it, “ with its teeth, cut 
out a smooth road*.” On the contrary, it did not 
cut a single hair, till it selected one for the founda- 
tion of its intended structure. This it cut very near 
the cloth, in order, we suppose, to have it as long as 
possible ; and placed it on a line with its body. It 
then immediately cut another, and placing it parallel 
to the first, bound both together with a few threads of 
its own silk. The same process was repeated with 
other hairs, till the little creature had made a fabric of 
some thickness, and this it went on to extend till it 
was large enough to cover its body ; which (as is 
usual with caterpillars) it employed as a model and 
measure for regulating its operations. We remarked 
that it made choice of longer hairs for the outside 
than for the parts of the interior, which it thought 
necessary to strengthen by fresh additions ; but the 
chamber was ultimately finished by a fine and closely- 
woven tapestry of silk. We could see the progress of 
its work, by looking into the opening at either of the 
ends ; for at this stage of the structure the walls are 
quite opaque, and the insect concealed. It may be 
thus observed to turn round, by doubling itself and 
bringing its head where the tail had just been ; of 
course, the interior is left wide enough for this pur- 
pose, and the centre, indeed, where it turns, is always 
wider than the extremitiesf. 

When the caterpillar increases in length, it takes 
care to add to the length of its house, by working-in 
fresh hairs at either end ; and if it be shifted to stuffs 
of different colours, it may be made to construct a 
party-coloured tissue, like a Scotch plaid. Reaumur 
cut off with scissors a portion at each end, to compel 

* Bonnet, xi. p. 204, Kirby and Spence, Intro, i. 4G4. 5th ed 

f J.R. 







the insect to make up the deficiency. But the cater- 
pillar increases in thickness as well as in length, so 
that its first house becoming too narrow, it must 
either enlarge it, or build a new one. It prefers the for- 
mer as less troublesome, and accomplishes its purpose 
“ as dexterously,” says Bonnet, “ as any tailor, and 
sets to work precisely as we should do, slitting the 
case on the two opposite sides, and then adroitly in- 
serting between them two pieces of the requisite size. 




Cases, fyc. of the Clothes-Moth (Tinea pellionella) — a Caterpillar 
feeding- in a case, which has been lengthened by ovals of different 
colours, b Case cut at the ends for experiment, c Case cut open, 
by the insect, for enlarging it. d, e The clothes-moths in their 
perfect state, when, as they cease to eat, they do no further injury. 

It does not, however, cut open the case from one end 
to the other at once ; the sides would separate too 
far asunder, and the insect be left naked. It therefore 
first cuts each side about half way down, beginning 
sometimes at the centre and sometimes at the end, 
(Fig. c.) and then, after having filled up the fissure, 
proceeds to cut the remaining half; so that, in fact, 
four enlargements are made, and four separate pieces 
inserted. The colour of the case is always the same 
as that of the stuff from which it is taken. Thus, if 








its original colour be blue, and the insect previously 
to enlarging it be put upon red cloth, the circles at 
the end, and two stripes down the middle, will be 
red' ; \” Re'aumur found that they cut these enlarge- 
ments in no precise order, but sometimes continuously, 
and sometimes opposite each other, indifferently. 

The same naturalist says he never knew one leave 
its old dwelling in order to build a new, though, when 
once ejected by force from its house, it would never 
enter it again, as some other species of caterpillars 
will do, but always preferred building another. We, 
on the contrary, have more than once seen them leave 
an old habitation. The very caterpillar, indeed, w r hose 
history we have above given, first took up its abode 
in a specimen of the ghost-moth ( Hepialus humuli ), 
where finding few suitable materials for building, it 
had recourse to the cork of the drawer, with the 
chips of which it made a structure almost as warm 
as it would have done from wool. Whether it took 
offence at our disturbing it one day, or whether it 
did not find sufficient food in the body of the ghost- 
moth, we know not ; but it left its cork house, and 
travelled about eighteen inches, selected “ the old 
lady,” one of the largest insects in the drawer, and 
built a new apartment composed partly of cork as 
before, and partly of bits dipt out of the moth’s 
wings f- 

We have seen these caterpillars form their habita- 
tions of every sort of insect, from a butterfly to a 
beetle; and the soft feathery wings of moths answer 
their purpose very well : but when they fall in with 
such hard materials as the musk beetle ( Cerambyx 
moschatus ) or the large scolopendra of the West 
Indies, they find some difficulty in the building. 

When the structure is finished, the insect deems 



* Bonnet, vol. ix. p. 203. 



f J.R. 







itself secure to feed on the materials of the cloth or 
other animal matter within its reach, provided it 
is dry and free from fat or grease, which Reaumur 
found it would not touch. For building, it always 
selects the straightest and loosest pieces of wool, but 
for food it prefers the shortest and most Compact ; 
and to procure these it eats into the body of the stuff, 
rejecting the pile or nap, which it necessarily cuts 
across at the origin, and permits to fall, leaving it 
threadbare, as if it had been much worn. It must 
have been this circumstance which induced Bonnet 
to fancy (as we have already mentioned) that it cut 
the hairs to make itself a smooth comfortable path to 
walk upon. It would be equally correct to say that 
an ox or a sheep dislikes walking amongst long 
grass, and therefore eats it down in order to clear the 
way. 

Tent-making Caterpillars. 

The caterpillars of a family of small moths ( Tinei - 
clce), which feed on the leaves of various trees, such as 
the hawthorn, the elm, the oak, and most fruit-trees, 
particularly the pear, form habitations which are 
exceedingly ingenious and elegant. They are so 
very minute that they require close inspection to 
discover them ; and to the cursory observer, unac- 
quainted with their habits, they will appear more like 
the withered leaf scales of the tree, thrown olf when 
the buds expand, than artificial structures made by 
insects. It is only, indeed, by seeing them move 
about upon the leaves, that we discover they are in- 
habited by a living tenant, who carries them as the 
snail does its shell. 

These tents are from a quarter of an inch to an 
inch in length, and usually about the breadth of an 
oat-straw. That they are of the colour of a withered 



 



leaf is not surprising ; for they are actually composed 
of a piece of leaf ; not, however, cut out from the 
whole thickness, but artfully separated from the 
upper layer, as a person might separate one of the 
leaves of paper from a sheet of pasteboard. 




A caterpillar’s tent upon a leaf of the elm. a, a the part of the 
leaf from which the tent has been cut out. b, the tent itself. 

The tents of this class of caterpillars, which are 
found on the elm, the alder, and other trees with ser- 
rated leaves, are much in the shape of a minute 
gold-fish. They are convex on the back, where the 
indentations of the leaf out of which they have 
been cut add to the resemblance, by appearing like 
the dorsal fins of the fish. By depriving one of those 
caterpillars common on the hawthorn of its tent, 
for the sake of experiment, we put it under the ne- 
cessity of making another ; for, as Pliny remarks of 
the clothes-moth, they will rather die of hunger than 
feed unprotected. When we placed it on a fresh 
hawthorn leaf, it repeatedly examined every part of 
it, as if seeking for its lost tent, though, when this 
was put in its way, it would not again enter it ; but, 
after some delay, commenced a new one*. 

For this purpose, it began to eat through one of 
the two outer membranes which compose the leaf 
and enclose the pulp ( parenchyma ), some of which, 
also, it devoured, and then thrust the hinder part 







of its body into the perforation. The cavity, how- 
ever, which it had formed, being yet too small for 
its reception, it immediately resumed the task of 
making it larger. By continuing to gnaw into the 
pulp, between the membranes of the leaf (for it took 
the greatest care not to puncture or injure the mem- 
branes themselves), it soon succeeded in mining out 
a gallery rather larger than was sufficient to contain 
its body. We perceived that it did not throw out as 
rubbish the pulp it dug into, but devoured it as food, 
— a circumstance not the least remarkable in its pro- 
ceedings. 

As the two membranes of leaf thus deprived of the 
enclosed pulp appeared white and transparent, every 
movement of the insect within could be distinctly 
seen ; and it was not a little interesting to watch its 
ingenious operations while it was making its tent from 
the membranes prepared as we have just described. 
These, as Reaumur has remarked, are in fact to the 
insect like a piece of cloth in the hands of a tailor ; 
and no tailor could cut out a shape with more neat- 
ness and dexterity than this little workman does. As 
the caterpillar is furnished in its mandibles with an 
excellent pair of scissors, this may not appear to be 
a difficult task ; yet, when we examine the matter 
more minutely, we find that the peculiar shape of the 
two extremities requires different curvatures, and this, 
of course, renders the operation no less complex, as 
Reaumur subjoins, than the shaping of the pieces of 
cloth for a coat*. The insect, in fact, shapes the mem- 
branes slightly convex on one side and concave on the 
other, and at one end twice as large as at the other. 
In the instance which we observed, beo'inninn: at the 
larger end, it bent them gently on each side by press- 
ing them with its body thrown into a curve. We 
have not said it cuts , but shapes its materials ; for it 
must be obvious that if the insect had cut both the 
* Mem. Hist. Insect, iii. p. 106. 






membranes at this stage of its operations, the pieces 
would have fallen and carried it along with them. 

To obviate such an accident, it proceeded to join 
the two edges, and secure them firmly with silk, 
before it made a single incision to detach them. 
When it had in this manner joined the two edges 
along one of the sides, it inserted its head on the 
outside of the joining, first at one end and then at the 
other, gnawing the fibres till that whole side was 
separated. It proceeded in the same manner with 
the other side, joining the edges before it cut them; 
and when it arrived at the last fibre, the only remain- 
ing support of its now finished tent, it took the pre- 
caution, before snipping it, to moor the whole to the 
uncut part of the leaf by a cable of its own silk. 
Consequently, when it does cut the last nervure, it is 
secure from falling, and can then travel along the leaf, 
carrying its tent on its back, as a snail does its shell*. 




a The caterpillar occupying the space it has eaten between the 
cuticle of the leaf, b A portion of the upper cuticle, cut out for 
the formation of the tent, e The tent nearly completed, d The 
perfect tent, with the caterpillar protruding its head. 



We have just discovered (Nov. 4th, 1S29), upon 
the nettle, a tent of a very singular appearance, in 
consequence of the materials of which it is made. 
The caterpillar seems, indeed, to have proceeded ex- 

* J. R. 







actly in the same manner as those which we have 
described, mining- first between the two membranes 
of the leaf, and then uniting these and cutting out 
his tent. But the tent itself looks singular from being 
all over studded with the stinging bristles of the 
nettle, and forming- a no less formidable coat of mail 
to the little inhabitant, than the spiny hide of the 
hedgehog. In feeding, it does not seem to have 
mined into the leaf, but to have eaten the whole of 
the lower membrane, along with the entire pulp, 
leaving nothing but the upper membrane untouched*. 

Tents of Stone-mason Caterpillars. 

The caterpillar of a small moth (Tinea) which feeds 
upon the lichens growing on walls, builds for itself a 
moveable tent of a very singular kind. M. de la Yoye 
was the first who described these insects ; but though 
they are frequently overlooked, from being very small, 
they are by no means uncommon on old walls. 
Reaumur observed them regularly for twenty years 
together, on the terrace-wall of the Tuileries at Paris ; 
and they may be found in abundance in similar situ- 
ations in this country. This accurate observer refuted 
by experiment the notion of M. de la Voye, that the 
caterpillars fed upon the stones of the wall ; but he 
satisfied himself that they detached particles of the 
stone for the purpose of building their tents or sheaths 
( fourreaux ), as he calls their dwellings. In order 
to watch their mode of building, Reaumur gently 
ejected half a dozen of them from their homes, and 
observed them detach grain after grain from a piece 
of stone, binding each into the wall of their building 
with silk, till the cell acquired the requisite magnitude, 
the whole operation taking about twenty-four hours 
of continued labour. M. de la Voye mentions small 



* J. R. 







granular bodies of a greenish colour, placed irregu- 
larly on the exterior of the structure, which he calls 
eggs ; but we agree with Reaumur in thinking it 
more probable that they are small fragments of moss 
or lichen intermixed with the stone : in fact, we have 
ascertained that they are so*. 

When these little architects prepare for their 
change into chrysalides before becoming moths, they 
attach their tents securely to the stone over which 
they have hitherto rambled, by spinning a strong 
mooring of silk, so as not only to fill up every inter- 
stice between the main entrance of the tent and the 
stone, but also weaving a close, thick curtain of the 
same material, to shut up the entire aperture. 




Tents and Caterpillars, both of their natural size and magnified.' 

It is usual for insects which form similar struc- 
tures, to issue, when they assume the winged state, 
from the broader end of their habitation ; but our 
little stone-mason proceeds in a different manner. It 
leaves open the apex of the cone from the first, for 
the purpose of ejecting its excrements, and latterly 
it enlarges this opening a little, to allow of a free 
exit when it acquires wings ; taking care, however, 
to spin over it a canopy of silk, as a temporary pro- 
tection, which it can afterwards burst through with- 

* J. R. 







out difficulty. The moth itself is very much like the 
common clothes-moth in form, but is of a gilded 
bronze colour, aud considerably smaller. 

In the same locality, M. de Maupertuis found a 
numerous brood of small caterpillars, which employed 
grains of stone, not, like the preceding, for building 
feeding tents, but for their cocoons. This caterpillar 
was of a brownish-grey colour, with a white line 
along the back, on each side of which were tufts of 
hair. The cocoons which it built were oval, and less 
in size than a hazel nut, the grains of the stone being 
skilfully woven into irregular meshes of silk. 

In June, 1829, we found a numerous encampment 
of the tent-building caterpillars described by MM. 
de la Voye and Reaumur, on the brick wall of a gar- 
den at Blackheath, Kent*. They were so very small, 
however, and so like the lichen on the wall, that, had 
not our attention been previously directed to their 
habits, we should have considered them as portions of 
the wall ; for not one of them was in motion, and it 
was only by the neat, turbinated, conical form in which 
they had constructed their habitations, that we detected 
them. We tried the experiment above-mentioned, of 
ejecting one of the caterpillars from its tent, in order 
to watch its proceedings when constructing another ; 
but probably its haste to procure shelter, or the arti- 
ficial circumstances into which it was thrown, influ- 
enced its operations, for it did not form so good a 
tent as the first, the texture of the walls being much 
slighter, while it was more rounded at the apex, and 
of course not so elegant. Reaumur found, in all his 
similar experiments, that the new structure equalled 
the old ; but most of the trials of this kind which we 
have made correspond with the inferiority which we 
have here recorded. The process indeed is the same, 

* J.R. 

 

but it seems to be done with more hurry and less care. 
It may be, indeed, in some cases, that the supply of 
silk necessary to unite the bits of stone, earth, or 
lichen employed, is too scanty for perfecting a second 
structure. 

We remarked a very singular circumstance in 
the operations of our little architect, which seems 
to have escaped the minute and accurate attention 
of Reaumur. When it commenced its structure, it 
was indispensable to lay a foundation for the walls 
about to be reared ; but as the tent was to be moveable 
like the shell of a snail, and not stationary, it would 
not have answered its end to cement the foundation 
to the wall. We had foreseen this difficulty, and felt 
not a little interested in discovering how it would be 
got over. Accordingly, upon watching its move- 
ments with some attention, we were soon gratified 
to perceive that it used its own body as the pri- 
mary support of the building. It fixed a thread 
of silk upon one of its right feet, warped it over to the 
corresponding left foot, and upon the thread thus 
stretched between the two feet, it glued grains of 
stone and chips of lichen, till the wall was of the re- 
quired thickness. Upon this, as a foundation, it 
continued to work till it had formed a small portion 
in form of a parallelogram ; and, proceeding in a 
similar way, it was not long in making a ring a very 
little wider than sufficient to admit its body. It ex- 
tended this ring in breadth, by working on the inside 
only, narrowing the diameter by degrees, till it began 
to take the form of a cone. The apex of this cone 
was not closed up, but left as an aperture through 
which to eject its excrements. 

It is worthy of remark, that one of the caterpillars 
which we deprived of its tent, attempted to save itself 
the trouble of building a new one, by endeavouring 
to unhouse one of its neighbours. For this purpose, 







it got upon the outside of the inhabited tent, and 
sliding its head down to the entrance, tried to make 
its way into the interior. But the rightful owner 
did not choose to give up his premises so easily ; and 
fixed his tent down so firmly upon the table where we 
had placed it, that the intruder was forced to aban- 
don his attempt. The instant, however, that the other 
unmoored his tent and began to move about, the in- 
vader renewed his efforts to eject him, persevering 
in the struggle for several hours, but without a 
chance of success. At one time, we imagined that 
he would have accomplished his felonious intentions; 
for he bound down the apex of the tent to the table 
with cables of silk. But he attempted his entrance 
at the wrong end. He ought to have tried the aper- 
ture in the apex, by enlarging which a little he 
would undoubtedly have made good his entrance ; 
and as the inhabitant could not have turned upon 
him for want of room, the castle must have been 
surrendered. This experiment, however, was not 
tried, and there was no hope for him at the main 
entrance. 

Muff-shaped Tents. 

The ingenuity of man has pressed into his service 
not only the wool, the hair, and even the skins of 
animals, but has most extensively searched the vege- 
table kingdom for the materials of his clothing. In 
all this, however, he is rivalled by the tiny inhabi- 
tants of the insect world, as we have already seen; 
and we are about now to give an additional instance 
of the art of a species of caterpillars which select a 
warmer material for their tents than even the cater- 
pillar of the clothes-moth. It may have been remarked 
by many who are not botanists, that the seed-catkins 
of the willow become, as they ripen, covered with a 
species of down or cotton, which, however, is too 




short in the fibre to be advantageously employed in 
our manufactures. But the caterpillars to which we 
have alluded, find it well adapted for their habita- 
tions. 

The muff-looking tent in which we find these in- 
sects, does not require much trouble to construct ; 
for the caterpillar does not, like the clothes-moth 
caterpillar, join the willow-cotton together, fibre by 
fibre — it is contented with the state in which it 
finds it on the seed. Into this it burrows, lines the 
interior with a tapestry of silk, and then detaches the 
whole from the branch where it was growing, and 
carries it about with it as a protection while it is 
feeding*. 




a, branch of the willow, with seed spike covered with cotton. 
b, muff tents made of this cotton by c, the caterpillar. 



* Reaumur, iii. p. 130. 











An inquiring friend of Reaumur having found 
one of these insects floating about in its muff-tent 
upon water, concluded that they fed upon aquatic 
plants ; but he was soon convinced that it had only 
been blown down by an accident, which must fre- 
quently happen, as willows so often hang over water. 
May it not be, that the buoyant materials of the tent 
were intended to furnish the little inhabitant with a 
life-boat, in which, when it chanced to be blown into 
the water, it might sail safely ashore and regain its 
native tree ? 

Leaf-mining Caterpillars. 

The process of mining between the two mem- 
branes of a leaf is carried on to more extent by mi- 
nute caterpillars allied to the tent-makers above 
described. The tent-maker never deserts his house, 
except when compelled, and therefore can only mine 
to about half the length of his own body ; but the 
miners now to be considered make the mine itself 
their dwelling-place, and as they eat their way they 
lengthen and enlarge their galleries. A few of 
these mining caterpillars are the progeny of small 
weevils ( Curculionidce ), some of two- winged flies 
( Diptera ), but the greater number are produced from 
a genus of minute moths ( (Ecophora , Latr.) which, 
when magnified, appear to be amongst the most 
splendid and brilliant of nature’s productions, vying 
even with the humming birds and diamond beetles 
of the tropics in the rich metallic colours which be- 
spangle their wings. Well may Bonnet call them 
“ tiny miracles of nature,” and regret that they are 
not e.n grand *. 

There are few plants or trees whose leaves may not, 
at some season of the year, be found mined by these 

* Bonnet^ Contempl. de la Nature, Part xii. 





caterpillars, the track of whose progress appears on 
the upper surface in winding lines. Let us take one 
of the most common of these for an example, — that 
of the rose-leaf, produced by the caterpillar of Ray’s 
golden-silver spot (. Argyromiges Rayella ? Curtis) 
of which we have just gathered above a dozen speci- 
mens from one rose-tree' 1 '. 




Leaf of the Monthly-Rose (Rosa Indica) mined by Caterpillars 
of Argyromiges? 

It may be remarked, that the winding line is 
black, closely resembling the tortuous course of a 
river on a map, — beginning like a small brook, and 
gradually increasing in breadth as it proceeds. This 
representation of a river exhibits, besides, a narrow 
white valley on each side of it, increasing as it goes, 
till it terminates in a broad delta. The valley is the 
portion of the inner leaf from which the caterpillar 
has eaten the pulp ( parenchyma ), while the river 
itself has been formed by the liquid cjectamenta of 
the insect, the watery part becoming evaporated. In 
other species of miners, however, the dung is hard 

* J.R. 







and dry, and consequently these only exhibit the 
valley without the river. (See p. 237.) 

On looking’ at the back of the leaf, where the wind- 
ing line begins, we uniformly find the shell of the 
very minute egg from which the caterpillar has been 
hatched, and hence perceive that it digs into the leaf 
the moment it escapes from the egg, without wan- 
dering a hair’s breadth from the spot; as if afraid 
lest the air should visit it too roughly. The egg is, 
for the most part, placed upon the midrib of the rose- 
leaf, but sometimes on one of the larger nervures. 
When once it has got within the leaf, it seems to 
pursue no certain direction, sometimes working to 
the centre, sometimes to the circumference, sometimes 
to the point, and sometimes to the base, and even, 
occasionally, crossing or keeping parallel to its own 
previous track. 

The most marvellous circumstance, however, is 
the minuteness of its workmanship ; for though a 
rose leaf is thinner than this paper, the insect finds 
room to mine a tunnel to live in, and plenty of food, 
without touching the two external membranes. Let 
any one try with the nicest dissecting instruments to 
separate the two plates of a rose leaf, and he will 
find it impossible to proceed far without tearing one 
or other. The caterpillar goes still further in mi- 
nute nicety; for it may be remarked, that its track 
can only be seen on the upper, and not on the under 
surface of the leaf, proving that it eats as it pro- 
ceeds only half the thickness of the pulp, or that 
portion of it which belongs to the upper membrane 
of the leaf. 

We have found this little miner on almost every 
sort of rose-tree, both wild and cultivated, including 
the sweet-briar, in which the leaf being very small, 
it requires nearly the whole parenchyma to feed one 
caterpillar. They seem, however, to prefer the foreign 







monthly rose to any of our native species, and there 
are few trees of this where they may not be dis- 
covered. 

Tunnels, very analogous to the preceding, may be 
found upon the common bramble (Rubus fruticosus), 
but the little miner seems to proceed more regularly, 
always, when newly hatched, making directly for the 
circumference, upon or near which also the mother 
moth deposits her egg, and winding along for half 
the extent of the leaf close upon the edge, following, 
in some cases, the very indentations formed by the 
terminating nervures. 




Leaf of the Dew-berry Bramble ( Rubus Cassius') mined by Caterpillars. 

The bramble-leaf miner seems also to differ from 
that of the rose-leaf, by eating the pulp both from 
the upper and under surface, at least the track is 
equally distinct above and below ; yet this may arise 
from the different consistence of the leaf pulp, that 
in the rose being firm, while that of the bramble is 
soft and puffy. 

On the leaves of the common primrose ( Primula 
veris ), as well as on the garden variety of it, the 
polyanthus, one of those mining caterpillars may very 
frequently be found. It is, however, considerably 







different from the preceding, for there is no black 
trace — no river to the valley which it excavates : its 
ejectamenta, being small and solid, are seen, when the 
leaf is dried, in little black points like grains of sand. 
This miner, also, seems more partial than the pre- 
ceding to the midrib and its vicinity, in consequence 
of which its path is seldom so tortuous, and often 
appears at its extremity to terminate in an area, com- 
paratively extensive, arising from its recrossing its 
previous tracks *. 




Leaf of the Primrose [Primula veris) mined by a Caterpillar. 

Swammerdam describes a mining caterpillar which 
he found on the leaves of the alder, though it did 
not, like those we have just described, excavate a 
winding gallery; it kept upon the same spot, and 
formed only an irregular area. A moth was pro- 
duced from this, whose upper wings, he says, 
“ shone and glittered most gloriously with crescents 
of gold, silver, and brown, surrounded by borders of 
delicate black.” Another area miner which he found 
on the leaves of willows, as many as seventeen on 
one leaf, producing what appeared to be rusty spots, 
was metamorphosed into a very minute Aveevil 
(Curculio Rhinoc .). He saysjhe has been informed, 



* J. R. 







that, in warm climates, worms are found in leaves an 
inch long, and adds, with great simplicity, “on these 
many fine experiments might have been made, if the 
inhabitants had not laboured under the cursed thirst 
of gold*/’ 

The vine-leaf miner, when about to construct its 
cocoon, cuts, from the termination of its gallery, two 
pieces of the membrane of the leaf, deprived of their 
pulp, in a similar manner to the tent-makers de- 
scribed above, uniting them and lining them with 
silk. This she carries to some distance before she 
lays herself up to undergo her change. Her mode 
of walking under her burden is peculiar, for, not con- 
tented with the security of a single thread of silk, 
she forms, as Bonnet says, “little mountains ( mon- 
ticules ) of silk, from distance to distance, and seizing 
one of these with her teeth, drags herself forward, and 
makes it a scaffolding from which she can build 
another +.” Some of the miners, however, do not 
leave their galleries, but undergo their transforma- 
tions there, taking the precaution to mine a cell, not 
in the upper, but in the under surface of the leaf; 
others only shift to another portion of the leaf. 

Social Leaf-Miners. 

The preceding descriptions apply to caterpillars 
who construct their mines in solitude, there being 
seldom more than one on a leaf or leaflet, unless 
when two mother flies happen to lay their eggs on the 
same leaf ; but there are others, such as the miners 
of the leaves of the henbane ( Hyoscyamus niger) 
which excavate a common area in concert — from four 
to eight forming a colony. These are very like flesh 
maggots, being larger than the common miners ; the 

* Swammerd. Book of Nature, vol. ii. p. 84. 

f Contempt, de la Nature, part xii. p. 197. 







leaves of this plant, from being thick and juicy, 
giving them space to work and plenty to eat. 

Most of the solitary leaf-miners either cannot or 
will not construct a new mine, if ejected by an ex- 
perimenter from the old, as we have frequently 
proved; but this is not the case with the social 
miners of the henbane leaf. Bonnet ejected one of 
these, and watched it with his glass till it com- 
menced a new tunnel, which it also enlarged with 
great expedition ; and in order to verify the assertion 
of Reaumur, that they neither endeavour nor fear to 
meet one another, he introduced a second. Neither 
of them manifested any knowledge of the other’s con- 
tiguity, but both worked hard at the gallery, as did a 
third and a fourth which he afterwards introduced; 
for though they seemed uneasy, they never attacked 
one another, as the solitary ones often do when they 
meet*. 

Bark-mining Caterpillars. 

A very different order of mining caterpillars are 
the progeny of various beetles, which excavate their 
galleries in the soft inner bark of trees, or between it 
and the young wood (Alburnum). Some of these, 
though small, commit extensive ravages, as may rea- 
dily be conceived when we are told that as many as 
eighty thousand are occasionally found on one tree. 
Jn 1783 the trees thus destroyed by the printer beetle 
(Tomicus typographus , Latr.), so called from its 
tracks resembling letters, amounted to above a million 
and a half in the Hartz forest. It appears there pe- 
riodically, and confines its ravages to the fir. This 
insect is said to have been found in the neighbour- 
hood of London. 

On taking off the bark of decaying poplars and 
willows, we have frequently met with the tracks of 

* Bonnet, Observ. sur les Insectes, vol, ii. p. 425, 







a miner of this order, extending in tortuous path- 
ways, about a quarter of an inch broad, for several 
feet and even yards in length. The excavation is 
not circular, but a compressed oval, and crammed 
throughout with a dark-coloured substance like saw- 
dust — the excrement no doubt of the little miner, 
who is thereby protected from the attacks of staplnj- 
linidcc , and other predaceous insects, from behind. 
But though we have found a great number of these 
subcortical tracks, we have never discovered one of 
the miners, though they are very probably the grubs 
of the pretty musk-beetle ( Cerambyx moschatus ) 
which is so abundant in the neighbourhood of the 
trees in question, that the very air in summer is per- 
fumed with their odour 

Another capricorn beetle of this family is no less 
destructive to bark in its perfect state, than the above 
are when grubs, as, from its habit of eating round a 
tree, it cuts the course of the returning sap, and de- 
stroys it. 




Capricorn Beetle , {Cerambyx Lamia amputator ) rounding off the barli of a 

tree. 

* J. R. 




Grasshoppers, locusts, crickets, and beetles are, in 
many respects, no less interesting* than the insects 
whose architectural proceedings we have already de- 
tailed. They do not, indeed, build any edifice for the 
accommodation of themselves or their progeny ; but 
most, if not all of them, excavate retreats in walls or 
in the ground. 

The house-cricket ( Acheta domcstica) is well 
known for its habit of picking out the mortar of 
ovens and kitchen fire-places, where it not only 
enjoys warmth, but can procure abundance of 
food. It is usually supposed that it feeds on bread. 
M. Latreille says it only eats insects, and it cer- 
tainly thrives well in houses infested by the cock- 
roach ; but we have also known it eat and destroy 
lamb’s-wool stockings, and other woollen stuffs, hung 
near a fire to dry. It is evidently not fond of hard 
labour, but prefers those places where the mortar is 
already loosened, or at least is new, soft, and easily 
scooped out ; and in this way it will dig covert ways 
from room to room. In summer, crickets often make 
excursions from the house to the neighbouring fields, 
and dwell in the crevices of rubbish, or the cracks 
made in the ground by dry weather, where they chirp 
as merrily as in the snuggest chimney corner. Whe- 
ther they ever dig retreats in such circumstances, we 
have not ascertained ; though it is not improbable 
they may do so for the purpose of making nests. M. 





Bory St. Vincent tells us, that the Spaniards are so 
fond of crickets that they keep them in cages like 
singing birds*. 

The Mole-Cricket. 

The insect called, from its similarity of habits to the 
mole, the mole-cricket ( Gryllotalpa vulgaris , Latr.) 
is but too well known in gardens and corn-fields in 
some parts of England, such as Wiltshire and Hamp- 
shire, though it is comparatively rare or unknown in 
others. It burrows in the ground, and forms exten- 
sive galleries similar to those of the mole, though 
smaller ; and these may always be recognised by a 
slightly-elevated ridge of mould : for the insect does 
not throw up the earth in hillocks like the mole, but 
gradually, as it digs along, in the manner of the field- 
mouse. In this way it commits great ravages in hot- 
beds and in gardens, upon pease, young cabbages, 
and other vegetables, the roots of which it is said 
to devour. It is not improbable, we think, that, 
like its congener, the house-cricket, it may also prey 
upon underground insects, and undermine the plants 
to get at them, as the mole has been proved to do. 
Mr. Gould, indeed, fed a mole-cricket for several 
months upon ants. 

The structure of the mole-cricket’s arms and hands 
(if we may call them so) is admirably adapted for 
these operations, being both very strong, and moved 
by a peculiar apparatus of muscles. The breast is 
formed of a thick, hard, horny substance, which is 
further strengthened within by a double frame-work 
of strong gristle, in front of the extremities of w hich 
the shoulder blades of the arms are firmly jointed ; a 
structure evidently intended to prevent the breast 
from being injured by the powerful action of the 

* Diet. Clussique d’Hist. Nat. Ait. Grillon, 








muscles of the arms in digging. The arms them- 
selves are strong and broad, and the hand is fur- 
nished with four large sharp claws, pointing somewhat 
obliquely outwards, this being the direction in which 
it digs, throwing the earth on each side of its course. 



The nest which the female constructs for her eggs, 
in the beginning of May, is well worthy of attention. 
The Rev. Mr. White, of Selborne, tells us that a 
gardener, at a house where he was on a visit, while 
mowing grass by the side of a canal, chanced to strike 
his scythe too deep, and pared off a large piece of 
turf, laying open to view an interesting scene of 
domestic economy. There was a pretty chamber dug 
in the clay, of the form and about the dimensions it 
would have had if moulded by an egg, the walls 
being neatly smoothed and polished. In this little 
cell were deposited about a hundred eggs, of the 
size and form of caraway comfits, and of a dull tar- 
nished white colour. The eggs were not very deep, 

y2 



The Mole-Cricket , with a separate outline of one of its hands. 







but just under a little heap of fresh mould, and within 
the influence of the sun’s heat*. 

Like the eggs and young of other insects, however, 
those of the mole-cricket are exposed to depredation, 
and particularly to the ravages of a black beetle which 
burrows in similar localities. The mother insect, 
accordingly, does not think her nest secure till she 
has defended it, like a fortified town, with labyrinths, 
entrenchments, ramparts, and covert ways. In some 
part of these outworks she stations herself as an ad- 
vanced guard, and when the beetle ventures within 
her circumvallations, she pounces upon him and kills 
him. 




Nest of the Mole-Cricket. 



The Field-Cricket. 

Another insect of this family, the field-cricket ( Acheia 
campcstris ), also forms burrows in the ground, in 
which it lodges all day, and comes out chiefly about 
sun-set, to pipe its evening song. It is so very shy and 
cautious, however, that it is by no means easy to 
discover either the insect or its burrow. “ The 
children in France amuse themselves with hunting 
after the field-cricket ; they put into its hole an ant 
fastened by a long hair, and as they draw it out the 
gricket does not fail to pursue it, and issue from its 



* Nat, Hist, of Splborne, ii. 82, 







retreat. Pliny informs us it might be captured in a 
much more expeditious and easy manner. If, for 
instance, a small and slender piece of stick were to 
be thrust into the burrow, the insect, he says, would 
immediately get upon it for the purpose of demand- 
ing the occasion of the intrusion : whence arose the 
proverb stultior grillo (more foolish than a cricket), 
applied to one who, upon light grounds, provokes his 
enemy, and falls into the snares which might have 
been laid to entrap him*.” 

The Rev. Mr. White, who attentively studied 
their habits and manners, at first made an attempt 
to dig them out with a spade, but without any 
great success ; for either the bottom of the hole 
was inaccessible, from its terminating under a large 
stone, or else, in breaking up the ground, the poor 
creature was inadvertently squeezed to death. Out 
of one thus bruised, a great number of eggs were 
taken, which were long and narrow, of a yellow 
colour, and covered with a very tough skin. More 
gentle means were then used, and these proved suc- 
cessful. A pliant stalk of grass, gently insinuated > 
into the caverns, will probe their windings to the 
bottom, and bring out the inhabitant; and thus the 
humane inquirer may gratify his curiosity without 
injuring the object of it. 

When the males meet, they sometimes fight very 
fiercely, as Mr. White found by some that he put into 
the crevices of a dry stone wall, where he wished to 
have them settle. For though they seemed distressed 
by being taken out of their knowledge, yet the first that 
got possession of the chinks seized on all the others 
that were obtruded upon him with his large row of 
serrated fangs. With their strong jaws, toothed like 
the shears of a lobsters claws, they perforate and 

* Entomologie, par K. A. E., l8mo., Paris, 1826, p. 168. 

Y 3 







round their curious regular cells, having no fore- 
claws to dig with, like the mole-cricket. When 
taken into the hand, they never attempt to defend 
themselves, though armed with such formidable wea- 
pons. Of such herbs as grow about the mouths of 
their burrows they eat indiscriminately, and never 
in the day-time seem to stir more than two or three 
inches from home. Sitting in the entrance of their 
caverns, they chirp all night as well as day, from the 
middle of the month of May to the middle of July. 
In hot weather, when they are most vigorous, they 
make the hills echo ; and, in the more still hours of 
darkness, may be heard to a very considerable dis- 
tance. “ Not many summers ago,” says Mr. White, 
“ I endeavoured to transplant a colony of these in- 
sects to the terrace in my garden, by boring deep 




A :rida vcirncivorn depositing her Eggs. 

The usual position of the ovipositor is represented by dots. 







holes in the sloping’ turf. The new inhabitants staid 
some time, and fed and sang- ; but they wandered 
away by degrees, and were heard at a greater dis- 
tance every morning ; so it appears that on this 
emergency they made use of their wings in attempting 
to return to the spot from which they were taken*.” 
The manner in which these insects lay their eggs is 
represented in the preceding figure ; which is that of 
an insect nearly allied to the crickets, though of a 
different genus. 

o 

A more laborious task is performed by an insect by 
no means uncommon in Britain, the Burying Beetle 
( Necrojj/iorus vespillo ), which may be easily recog- 
nised by its longish body, of a black colour, with two 
broad and irregularly indented bands of yellowish 
brown. A foreign naturalist, M. Gleditsch, gives a 
very interesting account of its industry. He had 
“often remarked that dead moles, when laid upon the 
ground, especially if upon loose earth, were almost 
sure to disappear in the course of two or three days, 
often of twelve hours. To ascertain the cause, he 
placed a mole upon one of the beds in his garden 
It had vanished by the third morning ; and, on dig ¦ 
ging where it had been laid, he found it buried to the 
depth of three inches, and under it four beetles, which 
seemed to have been the agents in this singular 
inhumation. Not perceiving anything particular in 
the mole, he buried it again ; and on examining if at 
the end of six days, he found it swarming with mag- 
gots, apparently the issue of the beetles, which M. 
Gleditsch now naturally concluded had buried the 
carcass for the food of their future young. To deter- 
mine these points more clearly, he put four of these 
insects into a glass vessel, half filled with earth and - 
properly secured, and, upon the surface of the earth, 
two frogs. In less than twelve hours one of the frogs 
w.as interred by two of the beetles ; the other two run 

* Nat. Mist. Sclborue. 






about the whole day, as if busied in measuring the 
dimensions of the remaining corpse, which on the 
third day was also found buried. He then introduced 
a dead linnet. A pair of the beetles were soon en- 
gaged upon the bird. They began their operations 
by pushing out the earth from under the body, so as 
to form a cavity for its reception ; and it was curious 
to see the efforts which the beetles made, by dragging 
at the feathers of the bird from below, to pull it into 
its grave. The male, having driven the female away, 
continued the work alone for five hours. He lifted 
up the bird, changed its place, turned it and arranged 
it in the grave, and from time to time came out of 
the hole, mounted upon it, and trod it under foot, 
and then retired below, and pulled it down. At 
length, apparently wearied with this uninterrupted 
labour, it came forth, and leaned its head upon the 
earth beside the bird without the smallest motion, as 
if to rest itself, for a full hour, when it again crept 
under the earth. The next day, in the morning, the 
bird was an inch and a half under ground, and the 
trench remained open the whole day, the corpse seem- 
ing as if laid out upon a bier, surrounded with a 
rampart of mould. In the evening it had sunk half 
an inch lower, and in another day the work was com- 
pleted, and the bird covered. M. Gleditsch con- 
tinued to add other small dead animals, which were 
all sooner or later buried ; and the result of iiis 
experiment was, that in fifty days four beetles had 
interred, in the very small space of earth allotted to 
them, twelve carcasses : viz., four frogs, three small 
birds, two fishes, one mole, and two grasshoppers, 
besides the entrails of a fish, and two morsels of the 
lungs of an ox. In another experiment, a single 
beetle buried a mole forty times its own bulk and 
weight in two days*.” 

* Act. Acad. Bcrolin. 1752, et Gleditsch, Phys. Botan., quoted 
by Kirby and Spence, ii. 353, 







Iii the summer of 1826, we found on Putney Heath, 
in Surrey, four of these beetles, hard at work in bury- 
ing* a dead crow, precisely in the manner described 
by M. Gleditsch*. 

Dung-Beetle. 

A still more common British insect, the Dorr, 
Clock, or Dung* Beetle ( Geotrupes stercorarius ), uses 
different materials for burying along with its eggs. 
“ It digs,” to use the words of Kirby and Spence, 
“ a deep cylindrical hole, and carrying down a mass 
of the dung to the bottom, in it deposits its eggs. 
And many of the species of the genus Ateuchus roll 
together wet dung into round pellets, deposit an egg 
in the midst of each, and when dry push them back- 
wards, by their hind feet, to holes of the surprising- 
depth of three feet, which they have previously dug 
for their reception, and which are often several yards 
distant. The attention of these insects to their eggs 
is so remarkable, that it was observed in the earliest 
ages, and is mentioned by ancient writers, but with 
the addition of many fables, as that they were all of 
the male sex ; that they became young again every 
year ; and that they rolled the pellets containing their 
eggs from sunrise to sunset every day, for twenty- 
eight days without intermissionf.” 

“ We frequently, notice in our evening walks,” says 
Mr. Knapp, “ the murmuring passage, and are often 
stricken by the heedless flight, of the great dorr- 
beetle ( Geotrupes stercorarius ), clocks, as the boys 
call them. But this evening my attention was called 
to them in particular, by the constant passing of such 
a number as to constitute something like a little 
stream ; and I was led to search into the object of 
their direct flight, as in general it is irregular and 



* J. R. 



f M outlet; 153. Kirby and Spencc ; ii. 350, 







seemingly inquisitive. I soon found that they dropped 
on some recent nuisance : but what powers of per- 
ception must these creatures possess, drawn from all 
distances and directions by the very little fetor which, 
in such a calm evening, could be diffused around, 
and by what inconceivable means could odours reach 
this beetle in such a manner as to rouse so inert an 
insect into action ! But it is appointed one of the 
great scavengers of the earth, and marvellously en- 
dowed with powers of sensation, and means of effect- 
ing this purpose of its being. Exquisitely fabricated 
as it is to receive impressions, yet probably it is not 
more highly gifted than any of the other innumerable 
creatures that wing their way around us, or creep 
about our paths, though by this one perceptible 
faculty, thus ‘ dimly seen,’ it excites our wonder and 
surprise. How wondrous then the whole ! 

“ The perfect cleanliness of these creatures is a 
very notable circumstance, when we consider that 
nearly their whole lives are passed in burrowing in 
the earth, and removing nuisances ; yet such is the 
admirable polish of their coating and limbs, that we 
very seldom find any soil adhering to them. The 
meloe, and some of the scarabsei, upon first emerging 
from their winter’s retreat, are commonly found with 
earth clinging to them ; but the removal of this is 
one of the first operations of the creature ; and all 
the beetle race, the chief occupation of which is 
crawling about the soil, and such dirty employs, are 
notwithstanding remarkable for the glossiness of 
their covering, and freedom from defilements of any 
kind. But purity of vesture seems to be a principal 
precept of nature, and observable throughout creation. 
Fishes, from the nature of the element in which they 
reside, can contract but little impurity. Birds are 
unceasingly attentive to neatness and lustration of 
their plumage. All the slug race, though covered 







with slimy matter calculated to collect extraneous 
things, and reptiles, are perfectly free from soil. The 
fur and hair of beasts, in a state of liberty and health, 
is never filthy, or sullied with dirt. Some birds 
roll themselves in dust, and, occasionally, particular 
beasts cover themselves with mire ; but this is not 
from any liking or inclination for such things, but 
to free themselves from annoyances, or to pre- 
vent the bites of insects. Whether birds in preening, 
and beasts in dressing themselves, be directed by 
any instinctive faculty, we know not ; but they evi- 
dently derive pleasure from the operation, and thus 
this feeling of enjoyment, even if the sole motive, 
becomes to them an essential source of comfort and 
of health*.” 

The rose or green chafer ( Cetonia aurcita), which is 
one of our prettiest native insects, is one of the bur- 
rowers, and for the purpose of depositing her eggs, 
digs, about the middle of June, into soft light 
ground. When she is seen at this operation, with 
her broad and delicate wings folded up in their shining 
green cases, speckled with white, it could hardly be 
imagined that she had but just descended from the 
air, or dropped down from some neighbouring rose. 

The proceedings of the Tumble-Dung Beetle of 
America {Scarab ecus pilularius, Linn.) are de- 
scribed in a very interesting manner by Catesby, 
in his ‘ Carolina.’ “ I have,” says he, “ attentively 
admired their industry, and mutual assisting of 
each other in rolling their globular balls from the 
place where they made them to that of their in- 
terment, which is usually the distance of some 
yards, more or less. This they perform breech fore- 
most, by raising their hind parts, and forcing along 



* Journal oi a Naturalist, p. 31 1 . 







the ball with their hind feet. Two or three of them 
are sometimes engaged in trundling one It all, which, 
from meeting with impediments on account of the 
unevenness of the ground, is sometimes deserted by 
them. It is, however, attempted by others with 
success, unless it happens to roll into some deep hol- 
low or chink, where they are constrained to leave it ; 
but they continue their work by rolling off the next 
ball that comes in their way. None of them seem 
to know their own balls, but an equal care for the 
whole appears to affect all the community. They 
form these pellets while the dung remains moist, and 
leave them to harden in the sun before they attempt 
to roll them. In their moving of them from place to 
place, both they and the balls may frequently be seen 
tumbling about over the little eminences that are in 
their way. They are not, however, easily discouraged ; 
and, by repeating their attempts, usually surmount 
the difficulties.” 

He further informs us that they “ find out their 
subsistence by the excellency of their noses, which 
direct them in their flight to newly-fallen dung, on 
which they immediately go to work, tempering it with 
a proper mixture of earth. So intent are they always 
upon their employment, that, though handled or 
otherwise interrupted, they are not to be deterred, 
but immediately on being freed, persist in their 
work without any apprehension of danger. They 
are said to be so exceedingly strong and active as to 
move about, with the greatest ease, things that are 
many times their own weight. Dr. Brichell was 
supping one evening in a planter’s house of North 
Carolina, when two of them were conveyed, without 
his knowledge, under the candlestick. A few blows 
were struck on the table, and, to his great surprise, 
the candlesticks began to move about, apparently 
without any agency ; and his surprise was not much 



 



lessened when, on taking one of them up, he dis- 
covered that it was only a chafer that moved.” 

We have often found the necklace-beetle ( Cardbus 
monilis ) inhabiting a chamber dug out in the earth 
of a garden, just sufficient to contain its body, and 
carefully smoothed and polished. From the form of 
this little nest, it would seem as if it were constructed, 
not by digging out the earth and removing it, but 
•chiefly by the insect pushing its body forcibly against 
the walls. The beetles which we have found nestling 
in this manner have been all males ; and therefore it 
cannot be intended for a breeding cell ; for male 
insects are never, we believe, sufficiently generous 
to their mates to assist them in such labours. The 
beetle in question appears to be partial to celery 
trenches* ; probably from the loose earth of which 
they are composed yielding, without much difficulty, 
to the pressure of its body. 

* J. R. 





 

All the species of ants are social. There are none 
solitary, as is the case with bees and wasps. They are 
all more or less skilful in architecture, some employ- 
ing masonry, and others being carpenters, wood- 
carvers, and miners. They consequently afford much 
that is interesting to naturalists who observe their 
operations. The genuine history of ants has only 
been recently investigated, first by Gould in 1747, 
and subsequently by Linnaeus, De Geer, Huber, 
and Latreille. Previous to that time their real indus- 
try, and their imagined foresight, were held up as 
moral lessons, without any great accuracy of observa- 
tion ; and it is probable that, even now, the mixture 
of truth and error in Addison’s delightful papers in 
the Guardian (Nos. 156, 157), may be more gene- 
rally attractive than the minute relations of careful 
naturalists. Gould disproved, most satisfactorily, 
the ancient fable of ants storing up corn for winter 
provision, no species of ants ever eating grain, or 
feeding in the winter upon anything. It is to 
Huber the younger, however, that we are chiefly in- 
debted for our knowledge of the habits and economy 
of ants ; and to Latreille for a closer distinction of 
the species. Some of the more interesting species, 
whose singular economy is described by the younger 
Huber, have not been hitherto found in this country. 
We shall, however, discover matter of very consider- 
able interest in those which are indigenous ; and as 
our principal object is to excite inquiry and observa- 
tion with regard to those insects which may be 
easily watched in our own gardens and fields, we 







shall chiefly confine ourselves to the ants of these 
islands. We shall begin with the labours of 
those native ants which may be called earth-masons, 
from their digging in the ground, and forming struc- 
tures with pellets of moistened loam, clay, or sand. 

Mason-Ants. 

We have used in the preceding pages, the terms 
mason-bees and mason-wasps , for insects which build 
their nests of earthy materials. On the same prin- 
ciple, we have followed the ingenious M. Huber the 
younger, in employing the term mason-ants for those 
whose nests on the exterior appear to be hillocks of 
earth, without the admixture of other materials, 
whilst in the interior they present a series of laby- 
rinths, lodges, vaults, and galleries, constructed with 
considerable skill. Of these mason-ants, as of the 
mason-wasps and bees already described, there are 
several species, differing from one another in their 
skill in the art of architecture. 

One of the most common of the ant-masons is 
the turf-ant ( Formica ccespitum , Latr.), which is of 
a blackish brown colour. Its architecture is not upon 
quite so extensive a scale as some of the others ; 
but, though slight, it is very ingenious. Sometimes 
they make choice of the shelter of a flat stone or 
other covering, beneath which they hollow out cham- 
bers and communicating galleries ; at other times 
they are contented with the open ground ; but most 
commonly they select a tuft of grass or other herbage, 
the stems of which serve for columns to their earthen 
walls. 

We had a small colony of these ants accidentally 
established in a flower-pot, in which we were rearing 
some young plants of the tiger-lily ( Liliumtigrinum ), 
the stems of which being stronger than the grass 
where they usually build, enabled them to rear their 




edifice higher, and also to make it more secure, than 
they otherwise might. It was wholly formed of 
small grains of moist earth, piled up between the 
stems of the lily without any apparent cement ; in- 
deed it has been ascertained by Huber, as we shall 
afterwards see, that they use no cement beside water. 
This is not always to be procured, as they depend 
altogether on rains and dew ; but they possess the art 
of joining grains of dry sand so as to support one 
another, on some similar principle, no doubt, to that 
of the arch. 

The nest which our turf-ants constructed in the 
flower-pot was externally of an imperfect square form, 
in consequence of its situation; for they usually prefer 
a circular plan. The principal chambers were placed 
under the arches, and, when inspected, contained a 
pile of cocoons and pupae. Beneath those upper 
chambers there were others dug out deeper down, in 
which were also a numerous collection of e£2*s and 
cocoons in various stages of advancement*. 

Mr. Knapp describes a still more curious structure 
of another species of ant common in this country : — 
“ One year,” says he, “ on the third of March, my 
labourer being employed in cutting up ant-hills, or 
tumps as we call them, exposed to view multitudes 
of the yellow species ( Formica flava) in their 
winter’s retirement. They were collected in numbers 
in little cells and compartments, communicating with 
others by means of narrow passages. In many of 
the cells they had deposited their larvse, which they 
were surrounding and attending, but not brooding 
over or covering. Being disturbed by our rude ope- 
rations, they removed them from our sight to more 
hidden compartments. The larvse were small. Some 
of these ant-hills contained multitudes of the young 
of the wood-louse (Oniscus armadillo ), inhabiting 

* J. It, 







with perfect familiarity the same compartments as 
the ants, crawling about with great activity with 
them, and perfectly domesticated with each other. 
They were small and white ; but the constant vibra- 
tion of their antennae, and the alacrity of their 
motions, manifested a healthy vigour. The ants were 
in a torpid state ; but on being removed into a tem- 
perate room, they assumed much of their summer’s 
animation. How these creatures are supported 
during the winter season it is difficult to compre- 
hend ; as in no one instance could we perceive any 
store or provision made for the supply of their 
wants. The minute size of the larvae manifested 
that they had been recently deposited ; and conse- 
quently that their parents had not remained during 
winter in a dormant state, and thus free from the 
calls of hunger. The preceding month of February, 
and part of January, had been remarkably severe; 
the frost had penetrated deep into the earth, and long 
held it frozen ; the ants were in many cases not more 
than four inches beneath the surface, and must have 
been enclosed in a mass of frozen soil for a lone: 
period ; yet they, their young, and the onisci, were 
perfectly uninjured by it : affording another proof 
of the fallacy of the commonly received opinion, that 
cold is universally destructive to insect life 

The earth employed by mason-ants is usually 
moist clay, either dug from the interior parts of their 
city, or moistened by rain. The mining-ants and the 
ash-coloured (Formica fusca) employ earth which is 
probably not selected with so much care, for it forms 
a much coarser mortar than what we see used in the 
structures of the yellow ants (F. jlavci) and . the 
brown ants (F. brunnea). We have never observed 
them bringing their building materials of this kind 
from a distance, like the mason-bees and like the 

* Journal of a Naturalist, page 304. 





wood or hill ant (F. rvfo ); but they take care before 
they fix upon a locality, that it shall produce them 
all that they recpiire. We are indebted to Huber 
the younger for the most complete account which 
has hitherto been given of these operations, of which 
details we shall make free use. 

“To form,” says this shrewd observer, “ a correct 
judgment of the interior arrangement or distribution of 
an ant-hill, it is necessary to select such as have not 
been accidentally spoiled, or whose form has not 
been too much altered by local circumstances ; a 
slight attention will then suffice to shew, that the ha- 
bitations of the different species are not all constructed 
after the same system. Thus, the hillock raised by 
the ash-coloured ants will always present thick walls, 
fabricated with Coarse earth, well-marked stories, and 
large chambers, with vaulted ceilings, resting upon 
a solid base. We never observe roads, or galleries, 
properly so called, but large passages, of an oval 
form, and all around considerable cavities and exten- 
sive embankments of earth. We further notice, 
that the little architects observe a certain proportion 
between the large arched ceilings and the pillars that 
are to support them. 

“ The brown ant ( Formica brunnea ), one of the 
smallest of the ants, is particularly remarkable for 
the extreme finish of its work. Its body is of a red- 
dish shining brown, its head a little deeper, and the 
antennae and feet a little lighter in colour. The ab- 
domen is of an obscure brown, the scale narrow, of 
a square form, and slightly scolloped. The body is 
one line and two-fifths in length*. 

“ This ant, one of the most industrious of its tribe, 
forms its nest of stories, four or five lines in height. 
The partitions are not more than half a line in thick- 
ness; and the substance of which they are composed 

* A line is the twelfth part of the old French inch. See Com- 
panion to the Almanac for 1830, p. 114. 







is so finely grained, that the inner walls present one 
smooth unbroken surface. These stories are not 
horizontal ; they follow the slope of the ant-hill, and 
lie one upon another to the ground-floor, which com- 
municates with the subterranean lodges. They are 
not always, however, arranged with the same regu- 
larity, for these ants do not follow an invariable 
plan ; it appears, on the contrary, that nature has 
allowed them a certain latitude in this respect, and that 
they can, according to circumstances, modify them 
to their wish ; but, however fantastical their habita- 
tions may appear, we always observe they have been 
formed by concentrical stories. On examining each 
story separately, we observe a number of cavities or 
halls, lodges of narrower dimensions, and long gal- 
leries, which serve for general communication. The 
arched ceilings covering the most spacious places 
are supported either by little columns, slender walls, 
or by regular buttresses. We also notice chambers, 
that have but one entrance, communicating with the 
lower story, and large open spaces, serving as a kind 
of cross-road ( carrefour ), in which all the streets 
terminate. 

“ Such is the manner in which the habitations of 
these ants are constructed. Upon opening them, we 
commonly find the apartments, as well as the large 
open spaces, filled with adult ants ; and always ob- 
serve their pupae collected in the apartments more 
or less near the surface. This, however, seems re- 
gulated by the hour of the day, and the temperature : 
for in this respect these ants are endowed with great 
sensibility, and know the degree of heat best adapted for 
their young. The ant-hill contains, sometimes, more 
than twenty stories in its upper portion, and at least 
as many under the surface of the ground. By this 
arrangement the ants are enabled, with the greatest 
facility, to regulate the heat. When a too burning 
sun over-heats their upper apartments, they withdraw 







their little ones to the bottom of the ant-hill. The 
ground-floor becoming, in its turn, uninhabitable 
during the rainy season, the ants of this species 
transport what most interests them to the higher 
stories ; and it is there we find them more usually 
assembled, with their eggs and pupae, when the sub- 
terranean apartments are submerged*.” 

Ants have a great dislike to water, when it exceeds 
that of a lig;ht shower to moisten their building: ma- 
terials. One species, mentioned by De Azara as in- 
digenous to South America, instinctively builds a 
nest from three to six feet highf, to provide against 
the inundations during the rainy season. Even this, 
however, does not always save them from submer- 
sion ; and, when that occurs, they are compelled, 
in order to prevent themselves from being swept 
away, to form a group, somewhat similar to the cur- 
tain of the wax-workers of hive-bees (see page 114). 
The ants constituting the basis of this group, lay 
hold of some shrub for security, while their compa- 
nions hold on by them ; and thus the whole colony, 
forming an animated raft, floats on the surface of the 
water till the inundation (which seldom continues 
longer than a day or two) subsides. 

It is usual with architectural insects to employ 
some animal secretion, by way of mortar or size, to 
temper the materials with which they work ; but the 
whole economy of ants is so different, that it would 
be wrong to infer from analogy a similarity in this 
respect, though the exquisite polish and extreme de- 
licacy of finish in their structures, lead, naturally, to 
such a conclusion. M. P. Huber, in order to resolve 
this question, at first thought of subjecting the ma- 
terials of the walls to chemical analysis, but wisely 
(as we think) abandoned it for the surer method of 
observation. The details which he has given, as the 

* M. P. Huber on Ants, page 20. 
f Stedman’s Surinam, vol. i. p. 160. 







result of his researches, are exceedingly curious and 
instructive. He began by observing an ant-hill till 
he could perceive some change in its form. 

“ The inhabitants,” says he, “ of that which I 
selected, kept within during the day, or only went out 
by subterranean galleries which opened at some feet 
distance in the meadow. There were, however, two 
or three small openings on the surface of the nest ; 
but I saw none of the labourers pass out this way, 
on account of their being too much exposed to the 
sun, which these insects greatly dread. This ant- 
hill, which had a round form, rose in the grass, at 
the border of a path, and had sustained no injury. 
I soon perceived that the freshness of the air and the 
dew invited the ants to walk over the surface of their 
nest; they began making new apertures; several 
ants might be seen arriving at the same time, thrust- 
ing their heads from the entrances, moving about 
their antennae, and at length adventuring forth to 
visit the environs. 

“ This brought to my recollection a singular opi- 
nion of the ancients. They believed that ants were 
occupied in their architectural labours during the 
night, when the moon was at its full *.” 

M. Latreille discovered a species of ants which 
were, so far as he could ascertain, completely blind f, 
and of course it would be immaterial to them whether 
they worked by night or during the day. All ob- 
servers indeed agree that ants labour in the night, 
and a French naturalist is therefore of opinion that 
they never sleep, — a circumstance which is well as- 
certained with respect to other animals, such as the 
shark, which will track a ship in full sail for weeks 
togetherj. The ingenious historian of English ants, 

* M. P. Huber on Ants, p. 23. 

-J- Latreille, Hist. Nat. des Fourmis, 
j Dr. Cleghorn, Thesis dc Somno. 






Gould, says they never intermit their labours by night 
or by day, except when compelled by excessive rains. 
It is probable the ancients were mistaken in asserting 
that they only work when the moon shines * ; for, 
like bees, they seem to find no difficulty in building 
in the dark, their subterranean apartments being as 
well finished as the upper stories of their buildings. 
But to proceed with the narrative of M. P. Huber. 

“ Having thus noticed the movements of these 
insects during the night, I found they were almost 
always abroad and engaged about the dome of their 
habitation after sunset. This was directly the reverse 
of what I had observed in the conduct of the wood- 
ants, (F. rufa ,) who only go out during the day, and 
close their doors in the evening. The contrast was 
still more remarkable than I had previously supposed ; 
for upon visiting the brown ants some days after, 
during a gentle rain, I saw all their architectural 
talents in full play. 

“As soon as the rain commenced, they left in 
great numbers their subterranean residence, re-entered 
it almost immediately, and then returned, bearing 
between their teeth pellets of earth, which they de- 
posited on the roof of their nest. I could not at first 
conceive what this was meant for, but at length I 
saw little walls start up on all sides with spaces left 
between them. In several places, columns, ranged at 
regular distances, announced halls, lodges, and pas- 
sages, which the ants proposed establishing; in a 
word, it was the rough beginning of a new story. 

“ I watched with a considerable degree of interest 
the most trifling movements of my masons, and 
found they did not work after the manner of wasps 

* Aristotle, Hist. Animal, ix. 38. Pliny says “ Operantur et 
noctu plena luna ; eadem interlunio cessant,” i. e. They work in 
the night at full moon, hut they leave off between moon and 
moon. It is the latter that we think doubtful. 







and humble-bees, when occupied in constructing a 
covering to their nest. The latter sit, as it were, 
astride on the border or margin of the covering, and 
take it between their teeth to model and attenuate it 
according to their wish. The wax of which it is 
composed, and the paper which the wasp employs, 
moistened by some kind of glue, are admirably 
adapted for this purpose, but the earth of which the 
ants make use, from its often possessing little tena- 
city, must be worked up after some other manner. 

“ Each ant, then, carried between its teeth the 
pellet of earth it had formed by scraping with the 
end of its mandibles the bottom of its abode, a 
circumstance which I have frequently witnessed in 
open day. This little mass of earth, being composed 
of particles but just united, could be readily kneaded 
and moulded as the ants wished ; thus, when they 
had applied it to the spot where they had to rest, 
they divided and pressed against it with their teeth, 
so as to fill up the little inequalities of their wall. 
The antenna; followed all their movements, passing 
over each particle of earth as soon as it was placed 
in its proper position. The whole was then rendered 
more compact, by pressing it lightly with the fore- 
feet. This work went on remarkably fast. After 
having traced out the plan of their masonry, in laying 
here and there foundations for the pillars and par- 
titions they were about to erect, they raised them 
gradually higher, by adding fresh materials. It 
often happened that two little walls, which were to 
form a gallery, were raised opposite, and at a slight 
distance from, each other. When they had attained 
the height of four or five lines, the ants busied 
themselves in covering in the space left between them 
by a vaulted ceiling. 

“ As if they judged all their partitions of sufficient 
elevation, they then quitted their labours in the 



 



upper part of the building* ; they affixed to the 
interior and upper part of each wall, fragments of 
moistened earth, in an almost horizontal direction, 
and in such a way as to form a ledge, which, by 
extension, would be made to join that coming from 
the opposite wall. These ledges were about half a 
line in thickness ; and the breadth of the galleries 
was, for the most part, about a quarter of an inch. 
On one side several vertical partitions were seen to 
form the scaffolding of a lodge, which communicated 
with several corridors, by apertures formed in the 
masonry ; on another, a regularly-formed hall was 
constructed, the vaulted ceiling of which was sus- 
tained by numerous pillars ; further off, again, might 
be recognised the rudiments of one of those cross 
roads of which I have before spoken, and in which 
several avenues terminate. These parts of the ant- 
hill were the most spacious ; the ants, however, did 
not appear embarrassed in constructing the ceiling 
to cover them in, although they were often more 
than two inches in breadth. 

“In the upper part of the angles formed by the 
different walls, they laid the first foundations of this 
ceiling, and from the top of each pillar, as from so 
many centres, a layer of earth, horizontal and slightly 
convex, was carried forward to meet the several 
portions coming from different points of the large 
public thoroughfare. 

“ I sometimes, however, laboured under an ap- 
prehension that the building could not possibly 
resist its own weight, and that such extensive ceilings, 
sustained only by a few pillars, would fall into ruin 
from the rain which continually dropped upon them ; 
but I was quickly convinced of their stability, from 
observing that the earth, brought by these insects, 
adhered at all points, on the slightest contact ; and 
that the rain, so far from lessening the cohesion of 







its particles, appeared even to increase it. Thus, 
instead of injuring' the building, it even contributed 
to render it still more secure. 

“ These particles of moistened earth, which are 
only held together by juxtaposition, require a fall of 
raiu to cement them more closely, and thus varnish 
over, as it were, those places where the walls and 
galleries remain uncovered. All inequalities in the ma- 
sonry then disappear. The upper part of these stories, 
formed of several pieces brought together, presents 
but one single layer of compact earth. They require 
for their complete consolidation nothing but the 
heat of the sun. It sometimes, however, happens 
that a violent rain will destroy the apartments, 
especially should they be but slightly arched; but 
under these circumstances the ants reconstruct them 
with wonderful patience. 

“ These different labours were carried on at the 
same time, and were so closely followed up in the 
different quarters, that the ant-hill received an addi- 
tional story in the course of seven or eight hours. 
All the vaulted ceilings being formed upon a regular 
plan, and at equal distances from one wall to the 
other, constituted, when finished, but one single 
roof. Scarcely had the ants finished one story than 
they began to construct another ; but they had not 
time to finish it — the rain ceasing before the ceiling 
was fully completed. They still, however, continued 
their work for a few hours, taking advantage of the 
humidity of the earth ; but a keen north wind soon 
sprung up, and hastily dried the collected fragments, 
which, no longer possessing the same adherence, 
readily fell into powder. The ants, finding their 
efforts ineffectual, were at length discouraged, and 
abandoned their employment ; but what was my 
astonishment when I saw them destroy all the apart- 
ments that were yet uncovered, scattering here and 

 



there over the last story the materials of which they 
had been composed ! These facts incontestably 
prove, that they employ neither gum, nor any kind 
of cement, to bind together the several substances 
of their nest ; but in place of this avail themselves of 
the rain, to work or knead the earth, leaving the sun 
and wind to dry and consolidate it*.” 

Dr. J ohnson of Bristol observed very similar pro- 
ceedings in the case of a colony of red ants ( Myr - 
mica rubra, ?), the roof of whose nest was formed 
by a flat stone. During dry weather, a portion of 
the side walls fell in ; but the rubbish was quickly 
removed, though no repairs were attempted till a 
shower of rain enabled them to work. As soon as 
this occurred, they worked with extraordinary rapi- 
dity, and in a short time the whole of the fallen 
parts were rebuilt, and rendered as smooth as if 
polished with a trowel. 

When a gardener wishes to water a plot of ground 
where he has sown seeds that recpiire nice manage- 
ment, he dips a strong brush into water, and passes 
his hand backwards and forwards over the hairs for 
the purpose of producing a fine artificial shower. 
Huber successfully adopted the same method to excite 
his ants to recommence their labours, which had been 
interrupted for want of moisture. But sometimes 
when they deem it unadvisable to wait for rain, they 
dig down (as we remarked to be the practice of the 
mason-bees) till they arrive at earth sufficiently moist 
for their purpose. They do not, however, like these 
bees, merely dig for materials ; for they use the exca- 
vations for apartments, as well as what they construct 
with the materials thence derived. They appear, in 
short, to be no less skilful in mining than in building. 

Such is the general outline of the operations of 



* M, P. Huber on Ants, p. 31. 







this singular species; but we are still more interested 
with the history which M. P. Huber has given of the 
labours of an individual ant. “ One rainy day,” 
he says, “ I observed a labourer of the dark ash- 
coloured species (Formica fusca) digging the ground 
near the aperture which gave entrance to the ant- 
hill. It placed in a heap the several fragments it 
had scraped up, and formed them into small pellets, 
which it deposited here and there upon the nest. 
It returned constantly to the same place, and ap- 
peared to have a particular design, for it laboured 
with ardour and perseverance. I remarked a slight 
furrow, excavated in the ground in a straight line, 
representing the plan of a path or gallery. The 
labourer (the whole of whose movements fell under 
my immediate observation) gave it greater depth and 
breadth, and cleared out its borders ; and I saw, at 
length — in which I could not be deceived — that it 
had the intention of establishing an avenue which 
was to lead from one of the stories to the under- 
ground chambers. This path, which was about two 
or three inches in length, and formed by a single 
ant, was opened above, and bordered on each side 
by a buttress of earth. Its concavity, in the form 
of a pipe ( gouttiere ), was of the most perfect regu- 
larity ; for the architect had not left an atom too 
much. The work of this ant was so well followed 
and understood, that I could almost to a certainty 
guess its next proceeding, and the very fragment it 
was about to remove. At the side of the opening 
where this path terminated was a second opening, 
to which it was necessary to arrive by some road. 
The same ant began and finished this undertaking 
without assistance. It furrowed out and opened 
another path, parallel to the first, leaving between 
each a little wall of three or four lines in height.” 
Like the hive-bees, ants do not seem to work 





in concert, but each individual separately. There 
is, consequently, an occasional want of coincidence 
in the walls and arches ; but this does not much 
embarrass them, for a worker, on discovering an 
error of this kind, seems to know how to rectify it, 
as appears from the following observations. 

“ A wall,” says M. Huber, “ had been erected, 
with the view of sustaining a vaulted ceiling, still 
incomplete, that had been projected towards the wall 
of the opposite chamber. The workman who began 
constructing it, had given it too little elevation to 
meet the opposite partition, upon which it was to 
rest. Had it been continued on the original plan, it 
must infallibly have met the wall at about one half 
of its height ; and this it was necessary to avoid. 
This state of things very forcibly claimed my atten- 
tion ; when one of the ants arriving at the place, and 
visiting the works, appeared to be struck by the dif- 
ficulty which presented itself ; but this it as soon 
obviated, by taking down the ceiling, and raising the 
wall upon which it reposed. It then, in my presence, 
constructed a new ceiling with the fragments of the 
former one. 

“ When the ants commence any undertaking, one 
would suppose that they worked after some precon- 
ceived idea, which, indeed, would seem verified by 
the execution. Thus, should any ant discover upon 
the nest two stalks of plants which lie crossways, a 
disposition favourable to the construction of a lodge, 
or some little beams that may be useful in forming 
its angles and sides, it examines the several parts 
with attention ; then distributes, with much sagacity 
and address, parcels of earth in the spaces, and 
along the stems, taking from every quarter materials 
adapted to its object, sometimes not caring to destroy 
the work that others had commenced ; so much are 
its motions regulated by the idea it has conceived, 







and upon which it acts, with little attention to all 
else around it. It goes and returns, until the plan 
is sufficiently understood by its companions, 

“ In another part of the same ant-hill,” continues 
M. Huber, “ several fragments of straw seemed ex- 
pressly placed to form the roof of a large house ; a 
workman took advantage of this disposition. These 
fragments lying horizontally, at half an inch distance 
from the ground, formed, in crossing each other, an 
oblong parallelogram. The industrious insect com- 
menced by placing earth in the several angles of this 
frame-work, and all along the little beams of which 
it was composed. The same workman afterwards 
placed several rows of the same materials against 
each other, when the roof became very distinct. On 
perceiving the possibility of profiting by another 
plant to support a vertical wall, it began laying the 
foundations of it ; other ants having by this time 
arrived, finished in common what this had com- 
menced 

M. Huber made most of his observations upon the 
processes followed by ants in glazed artificial hives 




* Hubei; on Ants, p. 43. 







or formicaries. The preceding figure represents a 
view of one of his formicaries of mason-ants. 

We have ourselves followed up his observations, 
both on natural ant-hills and in artificial formicaries. 
On digging cautiously into a natural ant-hill, esta- 
blished upon the edge of a garden walk, we were 
enabled to obtain a pretty complete view of the in- 
terior structure. There were two stories, composed 
of large chambers, irregularly oval, communicating 
with each other by arched galleries, the walls of all 
which were as smooth and well polished as if they 
had been passed over by a plasterer’s trowel. The 
floors of the chambers, we remarked, were by no 
means either horizontal or level, but all more or less 
sloped, and exhibiting in each chamber at least two 
slight depressions of an irregular shape. We left 
the under story of this nest untouched, with the 
notion that the ants might repair the upper galleries, 
of which we had made a vertical section ; but instead 
of doing so they migrated during the day to a large 
crack, formed by the dryness of the weather, about 
a yard from their old nest*. 




We put a number of yellow ants {Formica Jiava), 
with their eggs and cocoons, into a small glass frame, 
more than half full of moist sand taken from their 
native hill, and placed in a sloping position, in order 



* J. R. 







to see whether they would bring the nearly vertical, 
and therefore insecure, portion to a level by masonry. 
We were delighted to perceive that they immediately 
resolved upon performing the task which had been 
assigned them, though they did not proceed very 
methodically in their manner of building ; for instead 
of beginning at the bottom, and building upwards, 
many of them went on to add to the top of the outer 
surface, which increased rather than diminished the 
security of the whole. Withal, however, they seemed 
to know how far to go, for no portion of the newly 
built wall fell ; and in two days they had not only 
reared a pyramidal mound to prop the rest, but had 
constructed several galleries and chambers for lodging 
the cocoons, which we had scattered at random 
amongst the sand. The new portion of this building 
is represented in the figure as supporting the upper 
and insecure parts of the nest. 




We are sorry to record that our ingenious little 
masons were found upon the third day strewed about 
the outside of the building dead or dying, either from 
over fatigue or perhaps from surfeit, as we had sup- 
plied them with as much honey as they could devour. 
A small colony of turf-ants have at this moment 
(July 28th, 1829) taken possession of the premises 
of their own accord*. 



* J. R. 





The largest of our British ants is that called the Hill- 
ant by Gould, the Fallow-ant by the English trans- 
lator of Huber, and popularly the Pismire ; but which 
we think may be more appropriately named the Wood- 
ant ( Formica rufa , Latr.) from its invariable habit 
of living in or near woods and forests. This insect 
may be readily distinguished from other ants by the 
dusky black colour of its head and hinder parts, and 
the rusty brown of its middle. The structures reared 
by this species are often of considerable magnitude, 
and bear no small resemblance to a rook’s nest thrown 
upon the ground, bottom upwards. They occur in 
abundance in the woods near London, and in many 
other parts of the country: in Oak of Honour wood 
alone, we are acquainted with the localities of at 
least two dozen, — some in the interior and others on 
the hedge-banks on the outskirts of the wood*. 

The exterior of the nest is composed of almost 
every transportable material which the colonists can 
find in their vicinity; but the greater portion consists 
of the stems of withered grass and short twigs of 
trees, piled up in apparent confusion, but with suf- 
ficient regularity to render the whole smooth, conical, 
and sloping towards the base, for the purpose, we 
may infer, of carrying off rain water. When within 
reach of a corn-field, they often also pick up grains 
of wheat, barley, or oats, and carry them to the nest 



* J. R. 







as building materials, and not for food as was be- 
lieved by the ancients. There are wonders enough 
observable in the economy of ants, without having 
recourse to fancy — wonders which made Aristotle 
extol the sagacity of bloodless animals, and Cicero 
ascribe to them not only sensation, but mind, reason, 
and memory *. iElian, however, describes, as if he 
had actually witnessed it, the ants ascending a stalk 
of growing corn, and throwing down “ the ears 
which they bit off to their companions below,” (t iv 
drjpio t uj /caTiv). Aldrovandus assures us that he 
had seen their granaries ; and others pretend that 
they shrewdly bite off the ends of the grain to pre- 
vent it from germinating t- These are fables which 
accurate observation has satisfactorily contradicted. 

But these errors, as it frequently happens, have 
contributed to a more perfect knowledge of the insects 
than we might otherwise have obtained ; for it was 
the wish to prove or disprove the circumstance of 
their storing up and feeding upon grain, which led 
Gould to make his observations on English ants ; as 
the notion of insects being produced from putrid 
carcases had before led Redi to his ingenious experi- 
ments on their generation. Yet, although it is more 
than eighty years since Gould’s book was published, 
we find the error still repeated in very respectable 
publications J. 

The coping which we above described as forming 
the exterior of the wood-ant’s nest, is only a small 
portion of the structure, which consists of a great 
number of interior chambers and galleries, with fun- 
nel-shaped avenues leading to them. The coping, 

* In formica non rnodo sensus,sed etiam mens, ratio, memoria. 

f Aldrovandus de Formicis, and Johnston, Thaumaturg. Nat. 
p. 356. 

X See Professor Paxton’s Illustr. of Scripture, i. 307. 





indeed, is one of the most essential parts, and we 
cannot follow a more delightful guide than the 
younger Huber, in detailing its formation. 

“The labourers,” he says, “of which the colony 
is composed, not only work continually on the out- 
side of their nest, but, differing very essentially from 
other species, who willingly remain in the interior, 
sheltered from the sun, they prefer living in the open 
air, and do not hesitate to carry on, even in our pre- 
sence, the greater part of their operations. 

“ To have an idea how the straw or stubble-roof is 
formed, let us take a view of the ant-hill at its origin, 
when it is simply a cavity in the earth. Some of its 
future inhabitants are seen wandering about in 
search of materials fit for the exterior work, with 
which, though rather irregularly, they cover up the 
entrance ; whilst others are employed in mixing the 
earth, thrown up in hollowing the interior, with 
fragments of wood and leaves, which are every mo- 
ment brought in by their fellow-assistants ; and this 
gives a certain consistence to the edifice, which in- 
creases in size daily. Our little architects leave here 
and there cavities, where they intend constructing 
the galleries which are to lead to the exterior, and as 
they remove in the morning the barriers placed at the 
entrance of their nest the preceding evening, the pas- 
sages are kept open during the whole time of its con- 
struction. We soon observed the roof to become con- 
vex ; but we should be greatly deceived did we con- 
sider it solid. This roof is destined to include many 
apartments or stories. Having observed the mo- 
tions of these little builders through a pane of 
glass, adjusted against one of their habitations, I 
am thence enabled to speak with some degree of 
certainty upon the manner in which they are con- 
structed. 1 ascertained, that it is by excavating, or 







mining' the under portion of their edifice, that they 
form their spacious halls, low indeed, and of heavy 
construction, yet sufficiently convenient for the use to 
which they are appropriated, that of receiving, at cer - 
tain hours of the day, the larvae and pupae. 

“ These halls have a free communication by gal- 
leries, made in the same manner. If the materials 
of which the ant-hill is composed were only inter- 
laced, they would fall into a confused heap every 
time the ants attempted to bring them into regular 
order. This, however, is obviated by their tempering 
the earth with rain-water, which, afterwards hardened 
in the sun, so completely and effectually binds to- 
gether the several substances, as to permit the re- 
moval of certain fragments from the ant-hill without 
any injury to the rest; it, moreover, strongly opposes 
the introduction of the rain. I never found, even 
after long and violent rains, the interior of the nest 
wetted to more than a quarter of an inch from the 
surface, provided it had not been previously out of 
repair, or deserted by its inhabitants. 

“ The ants are extremely well sheltered in their 
chambers, the largest of which is placed nearly in 
the centre of the building; it is much loftier than 
the rest, and traversed only by the beams that sup- 
port the ceiling ; it is in this spot that all the gal- 
leries terminate, and this forms, for the most part, 
their usual residence. 

“ As to the underground portion, it can only be 
seen when the ant-hill is placed against a declivity ; 
all the interior may be then readily brought in view, 
by simply raising up the straw-roof. The subter- 
ranean residence consists of a range of apartments, 
excavated in the earth, taking an horizontal direc- 
tion 



* Huber on Ants ; p. 15. 



 



M. P. Huber, in order to observe the operations of 
the wood-ant with more attention, transferred colo- 
nies of them to his artificial formicaries, plunging the 
feet of the stand into water to prevent their escape till 




they were reconciled to their abode, and had made 
some progress in repairing it. The preceding is a 
figure of the apparatus which he used for this pur- 
pose. 

There is this remarkable difference in the nest of 
the wood-ants, that they do not construct a long co- 
vert way as if for concealment, as the yellow and the 
brown ants do. The wood-ants are not, like them, 
afraid of being surprised by enemies, at least during 
the day, when the whole colony is either foraging in 
the vicinity or employed on the exterior. But the 
proceedings of the wood-ants at night are well wor- 
thy of notice; and when M. Huber began to study 







their economy, he directed his entire attention to 
their night proceedings. “ I remarked,” says he, 
“ that their habitations changed in appearance hourly, 
and that the diameter of those spacious avenues, 
where so many ants could freely pass each other 
during the day, was, as night approached, gradually 
lessened. The aperture, at length, totally disap- 
peared, the dome was closed on all sides, and the 
ants retired to the bottom of their nest. 

“ In further noticing the apertures of these ant- 
hills, I fully ascertained the nature of the labour of its 
inhabitants, of which I could not before even guess 
the purport ; for the surface of the nest presented 
such a constant scene of agitation, and so many in- 
sects were occupied in carrying materials in every 
direction, that the movement offered no other image 
than that of confusion. 

“ I saw then clearly that they were engaged in 
stopping up passages ; and for this purpose, they at 
first brought forward little pieces of wood, which 
they deposited near the entrance of those avenues 
they wished to close ; they placed them in the stubble ; 
they then went to seek other twigs and fragments 
of wood, which they disposed above the first, but in 
a different direction, and appeared to choose pieces 
of less size in proportion as the work advanced. 
They, at length, brought in a number of dried leaves, 
and other materials of an enlarged form, with which 
they covered the roof : an exact miniature of the art 
of our builders, when they form the covering of any 
building? Nature, indeed, seems everywhere to 
have anticipated the inventions of which we boast, 
and this is doubtless one of the most simple. 

“ Our little insects, now in safety in their nest, 
retire gradually to the interior before the last pas- 
sages are closed, one or two only remain without, or 









concealed behind the doors on guard, whilst the rest 
either take their repose, or engage in different occu- 
pations in the most perfect security. I was impatient 
to know what took place in the morning upon these 
ant-hills, and therefore visited them at an early 
hour. I found them in the same state in which I 
had left them the preceding evening. A few ants 
were wandering about on the surface of the nest, 
some others issued from time to time from under the 
margin of their little roofs formed at the entrance of 
the galleries : others afterwards came forth, who be- 
gan removing the wooden bars that blockaded the 
entrance, in which they readily succeeded. This 
labour occupied them several hours. The passages 
were at length free, and the materials with which 
they had been closed, scattered here and there over 
the ant-hill. Every day, morning and evening, 
during the fine weather, I was a witness to similar 
proceedings. On days of rain the doors of all the 
ant-hills remained closed. When the sky was cloudy 
in the morning, or rain was indicated, the ants, who 
seemed to be aware of it, opened but in part their 
several avenues, and immediately closed them when 
the rain commenced*.” 

The galleries and chambers which are roofed in 
as thus described, are very similar to those of the 
mason-ants, being partly excavated in the earth, and 
partly built with the clay thence procured. It is in 
these they pass the night, and also the colder months 
of the winter, when they become torpid or nearly 
so, and of course require not the winter granaries of 
corn with which the ancients fabulously furnished 
them. 



* Huber on Ants, p. 11. 



carpenter-ants. 







Carpenter-Ants. 

The ants that work in wood perform much more 
extensive operations than any of the other carpenter 
insects which we have mentioned. Their only tools, 
like those of bees and wasps, are their jaws or man- 
dibles ; but though these may not appear so curiously 
constructed as the ovipositor file of the tree-hopper 
( Cicadee ), or the rasp and saw of the saw-flies ( Ten - 
thredincs ), they are no less efficient in the perform- 
ance of what is required. Among’ the carpenter-ants 
the emmet or jet-ant (F. fuliginosa ) holds the first 
rank, and is easily known by being rather less in 
size than the wood-ant, and by its fine shining black 
colour. It is less common in Britain than some of 
the preceding, though its colonies may occasionally 
be met with in the trunks of decaying oak or willow 
trees in hedges. 

“ The labourers,” says Huber, “ of this species, 
work always in the interior of trees, and are desirous 
of being screened from observation ; thus every hope 
on our part is precluded of following them in their 
several occupations. I tried every expedient I could 
devise to surmount this difficulty ; I endeavoured to 
accustom these ants to live and work under my in- 
spection, but all my efforts were unsuccessful ; they 
even abandoned the most considerable portion of 
their nest to seek some new asylum, and spurned the 
honey and sugar which I offered them for nourish- 
ment. I was now, by necessity, limited to the in- 
spection only of their edifices ; but by decomposing 
some of the fragments with care, I hoped to acquire 
some knowledge of their organization. 

“ On one side I found horizontal galleries, hidden 
in great part by their walls, which follow the circular 
direction of the layers of the wood ; and on an- 
other, parallel galleries, separated by extremely thin 





partitions, having no communication except by a 
few oval apertures. Such is the nature of these 
works, remarkable for their delicacy and lightness. 

“ In other fragments I found avenues which opened 
laterally, including portions of walls and transverse 
partitions, erected here and there within the galleries, 
so as to form separate chambers. When the work 
is further advanced, round holes are always observed, 
encased, as it were, between two pillars cut out in the 
same wall. These holes in course of time become 
square, and the pillars, originally arched at both 
ends, are worked into regular columns by the chisel 
of our sculptors. This, then, is the second specimen 
of their art. This portion of the edifice will probably 
remain in this state. 

“ But in another quarter are fragments differently 
wrought, in which these same partitions, pierced 
now in every part, and hewn skilfully, are trans- 
formed into colonnades, which sustain the upper 
stories, and leave a free communication throughout 
the whole extent. It can readily be conceived, how 
parallel galleries, hollowed out upon the same plan, 
and the sides taken down, leaving only from space 
to space what is necessary to sustain their ceilings, 
may form an entire story ; but as each has been 
pierced separately, the flooring cannot be very level : 
this, however, the ants turn to their advantage, since 
these furrows are better adapted to retain the larvae 
that may be placed there. 

“ The stories constructed in the great roots offer 
greater irregularity than those in the very body of the 
tree, arising either from the hardness and interlacing 
of the fibres, which renders the labour more difficult, 
and obliges the labourers to depart from their accus- 
tomed manner, or from their not observing in the 
extremities of their edifice the same arrangement as 
in the centre ; whatever it be, horizontal stories and 








Portion of a tree , ivith chambers and galleries chiselled out by Jet- Ants. 

numerous partitions are still found. If the work be 
less regular, it becomes more delicate ; for the ants, 
profiting by the hardness and solidity of the mate- 
rials give to their building an extreme degree of 
lightness. I have seen fragments of from eisdit to 
ten inches in length, and of equal height, formed of 
wood as thin as paper, containing a number of apart- 
ments, and presenting the most singular appearance. 
At the entrance of these apartments, worked out 
with so much care, are very considerable openings ; 
but in place of chambers and extensive galleries, the 
layers of the wood are hewn in arcades, allowing the 
ants a free passage in every direction. These may 
be regarded as the gates or vestibules conducting to 
the several lodges*.” 

It is a singular circumstance in the structures of 
these ants, that all the wood which they carve is 
tinged of a black colour, as if it were smoked; and M. 
Huber was not a little solicitous to discover whence 
this arose. It certainly does not add to the beauty 



* Huber, p. 56. 







of their streets, which look as sombre as the most 
smoke-dyed walls in the older lanes of the metro- 
polis. M. Huber could not satisfy himself whether 
it was caused by the exposure of the wood to the 
atmosphere, by some emanation from the ants, or 
by the thin layers of wood being acted upon or de- 
composed by the formic acid. But if any or all 
of these causes operated in blackening the wood, 
we should be ready to anticipate a similar effect 
in the case of other species of ants which inhabit 
trees ; yet the black tint is only found in the exca- 
vations of the jet ant. 

We are acquainted with several colonies of the jet 
ants, — one of which, in the roots and trunk of an 
oak on the road from Lewisham to Sydenham, near 
Brockley in Kent, is so extremely populous, that the 
numbers of its inhabitants appeared to us beyond 
any reasonable estimate. None of the other colo- 
nies of this species which we have seen, appear to 
contain many hundreds. On cutting into the root 
of the before-mentioned tree, we found the vertical 
excavations of much larger dimensions, both in width 
and depth, than those represented by Huber in the 
preceding cut (page 2S1). What surprised us the 
most, was to see the tree growing vigorously and 
fresh, though its roots were chiselled in all directions 
by legions of workers, while every leaf, and every 
inch of the bark, was also crowded by parties of 
foragers. On one of the low branches we found a 
deserted nest of the white throat ( Sylvia cinerea , 
Temminck), in the cavity of which they were piled 
upon one another as close as the unhappy negroes in 
the hold of a slave ship ; but we could not discover 
what had attracted them hither. Another dense group, 
collected on one of the branches, led us to the dis- 
covery of a very singular oak gall, formed on the 
bark in the shape of a pointed cone, and crowded 







together. It is probable that the juice which they 
extracted from these galls was much to their taste*. 

Beside the jet-ant, several other species exercise 
the art of carpentry, — nay, what is more wonderful 
still, they have the ingenuity to knead up, with 
spiders’ web for a cement, the chips which they 
chisel out into a material with which they construct 
entire chambers. The species which exercise this 
singular art are the Ethiopian ( Formica nigra) and 
the yellow ant (F. Jlava) f. 

We once observed the dusky ants (F. fusca ), at 
Blackheath in Kent, busily employed in carrying out 
chips from the interior of a decaying black poplar, 
at the root of which a colony was established ; but, 
though it thence appears that this species can chisel 
wood if they choose, yet they usually burrow in the 
earth, and by preference, as we have remarked, at the 
root of a tree, the leaves of which supply them with 
food. 



Among the foreign ants, we may mention a small 
yellow ant of South America, described by Dampier, 
which seems, from his account, to construct a nest 
of green leaves. “ Their sting,” he says, “ is like 
a spark of fire ; and they are so thick among the 
boughs in some places, that one shall be covered with 
them before he is aware. These creatures have nests 
on great trees, placed on the body between the limbs: 
some of their nests are as big as a hogshead. This 
is their winter habitation ; for in the wet season they 
all repair to these their cities, where they preserve 
their eggs. In the dry season, when they leave their 
nests, they swarm all over the woodlands, for they 
never trouble the savannahs. Great paths, three or 

f Huber. 



* J. R. 







four inches broad, made by them, may be seen in 
the woods. They go out light, but bring home 
heavy loads on their backs, all of the same sub- 
stance, and equal in size. I never observed any 
thing besides pieces of green leaves, so big that I 
could scarcely see the insect for his burden ; yet 
they would march stoutly, and so many were pressing 
forward that it was a very pretty sight, for the path 
looked perfectly green with them.” 

Ants observed in New South Wales, by the gentle- 
men in the expedition under Captain Cook, are still 
more interesting. “ Some,” we are told, “are as green 
as a leaf, and live upon trees, where they build their 
nests of various sizes, between that of a man’s head 
and his fist. These nests are of a very curious struc- 
ture : they are formed by bending down several of the 
leaves, each of which is as broad as a man’s hand, 
and glueing the points of them together, so as to 
form a purse. The viscous matter used for this pur- 
pose is an animal juice which nature has enabled 
them to elaborate. Their method of first bending 
down the leaves we had no opportunity to observe ; 
but we saw thousands uniting all their strength to 
hold them in this position, while other busy multi- 
tudes were employed within, in applying this gluten 
that was to prevent their returning back. To satisfy 
ourselves that the leaves were bent and held down 
by the efforts of these diminutive artificers, we dis- 
turbed them in their work ; and as soon as they were 
driven from their stations, the leaves on which they 
were employed sprang up with a force much greater 
than we could have thought them able to conquer by 
any combination of their strength. But, though we 
gratified our curiosity at their expense, the injury did 
not go unrevenged ; for thousands immediately threw 
themselves upon us, and gave us intolerable pain with 
their stings, especially those which took possession 







of our necks and hair, from whence they were not 
easily driven. Their sting was scarcely less painful 
than that of a bee ; but, except it was repeated, the 
pain did not last more than a minute. 

“ Another sort are quite black, and their operation, 
and manner of life are not less extraordinary. Their 
habitations are the inside of the branches of a trees 
which they contrive to excavate, by working out the 
pith almost to the extremity of the slenderest twig, 
the tree at the same time flourishing as if it had no 
such inmate. When we first found the tree, we 
gathered some of the branches ; and were scarcely 
less astonished than we should have been to find 
that we had profaned a consecrated grove, where 
every tree, upon being wounded, gave signs of life ; 
for we were instantly covered with legions of these 
animals, swarming from every broken bough, and 
inflicting their stings with incessant violence. 

“ A third kind we found nested in the root of a 
plant, which grows on the bark of trees in the manner 
of mistletoe, and which they had perforated for that 
use. This root is commonly as big as a large turnip, 
and sometimes much bigger. When we cut it, we 
found it intersected by innumerable winding pas- 
sages, all filled with these animals, by which, how- 
ever, the vegetation of the plant did not appear to 
have suffered any injury. We never cut one of these 
roots that was not inhabited, though some were not 
bigger than a hazel-nut. The animals themselves 
are very small, not more than half as big as the 
common red ant in England. They had stings, but 
scarcely force enough to make them felt: they had, 
however, a power of tormenting us in an equal, if 
not in a greater degree ; for the moment we handled 
the root, they swarmed from innumerable holes, and 
running about those parts of the body that were un- 







covered, produced a titillation more intolerable than 
pain, except it is increased to great violence*.” 

The species called sugar-ants in the West Indies 
are particularly destructive to the sugar-cane, as well 
as to lime, lemon, and orange-trees, by excavating 
their nests at the roots, and so loosening the earth 
that they are frequently uprooted and blown down 
by the winds. If this does not happen, the roots are 
deprived of due nourishment, and the plants become 
sickly and die t- 



* Hawkesworth’s Account of Cook’s First Voyage, 
t Phil. Trans., xxx., p. 346. 





When we look back upon the details which we have 
given of the industry and ingenuity of numerous 
tribes of insects, both solitary and social, we are 
induced to think it almost impossible that they could 
be surpassed. The structures of wasps and bees, 
and still more those of the woocl-ant ( Formica rvfa), 
when placed in comparison with the size of the 
insects, equal our largest cities compared with the 
stature of man. But when we look at the build- 
ings erected by the white ants of tropical climates, 
all that we have been surveying dwindles into in- 
significance. Their industry appears greatly to sur- 
pass that of our ants and bees, and they are cer- 
tainly more skilful in architectural contrivances. The 
elevation, also, of their edifices is more than five 
hundred times the height of the builders. Were 
our houses built according to the same proportions, 
they would be twelve or fifteen times higher than 
the London Monument, and four or five times 
higher than the pyramids of Egypt, with corre- 
sponding dimensions in the basements of the edi- 
fices. These statements are, perhaps, necessary to 
impress the extraordinary labours of ants upon the 
mind ; for we are all more or less sensible to the 
force of comparisons. The analogies between the 
works of insects and of men are not perfect ; for in- 
sects are all provided with instruments, peculiarly 
adapted to the end which they instinctively seek, 
while man has to form a plan by progressive thought 







and upon the experience of others, and to complete 
it with tools which he also invents. 

The termites do not stand above a quarter of an inch 
high, while their nests are frequently twelve feet ; and 
Jobson mentions some which he had seen as high as 
twenty feet ; “ of compasse,” he adds, “ to contayne a 
dozen men, with the heat of the sun baked into that 
hardnesse, that we used to’hide ourselves in the ragged 
toppes of them when we took up stands to shoot at 
deere or wild beasts Bishop Heber saw a number 
of these high ant-hills in India, near the principal en- 
trance of the Sooty or Moorshedabad river. “ Many 
of them,” he says, “ were five or six feet high, and 
probably seven or eight feet in circumference at the 
base, partially overgrown with grass and ivy, and 
looking at a distance like the stumps of decayed trees. 
I think it is Ctesias, among the Greek writers, who 
gives an account, alluded to by Lucian, in his ‘ Cock,’ 
of monstrous ants in India, as large as foxes. The 
falsehood probably originated in the stupendous 
fabrics which they rear here, and which certainly 
might be supposed to be the work of a much larger 
animal than their real architect t-” Herodotus has 
a similar fable of the enormous size and brilliant ap- 
pearance of the ants of India, 

Nor is it only in constructing dwellings for them- 
selves that the termites of Africa and of other 
hot climates employ their masonic skill. Though, 
like our ants and wasps, they are almost omnivorous, 
yet wood, particularly when felled and dry, seems 
their favourite article of food ; but they have an utter 
aversion to feeding in the light, and always eat their 
way with all expedition into the interior. It thence 
would seem necessary for them either to leave the bark 
of a tree, or the outer portion of the beam or door 

* Jobson’s Gambia, in Purchas’s Pilgrims, ii., p, 1570. 
f lleber’s Journal, vol, i., p. 248. 






of a house, undevoured, or to eat in open day. 
They do neither ; but are at the trouble of construct- 
ing- g-alleries of clay, in which they can conceal 
themselves, and feed in security. In all their forag- 
ing excursions, indeed, they build covert ways, by 
which they can go out and return to their encamp- 
ment*. 

Others of the species (for there are several) in- 
stead of building galleries, exercise the art of miners, 
and make their approaches under ground, penetrating 
beneath the foundation of houses or areas, and rising 
again, either through the floors, or by entering the 
bottom of the posts that support the building, when 
they follow the course of the fibres, and make their 
way to the top, boring holes and cavities in different 
places, as they proceed. Multitudes enter the roof, 
and intersect it with pipes or galleries, formed of 
wet clay ; which serve for passages in all directions, 
and enable them more readily to fix their habitations 
in it. They prefer the softer woods, such as pine and 
fir, which they hollow out with such nicety, that they 
leave the surface whole, after having eaten away the 
inside. A shelf or plank attacked in this manner, 
looks solid to the eye, when, if weighed, it will not 
out-balance two sheets of pasteboard of the same di- 
mensions. It sometimes happens, that they carry 
this operation so far on stakes in the open air, as to 
render the bark too flexible for their purpose ; when 
they remedy the defect by plastering the whole stick 
with a sort of mortar which they make with clay ; so 
that, on being struck, the form vanishes, and the ar- 
tificial covering falls in fragments on the ground. 
In the woods, when a large tree falls from age or 
accident, they enter it on the side next the ground, 
and devour at leisure, till little more than the bark 



* Smeathman, in Phil, Trans., vol. lxxi. 





is left. But in this case they take no precaution of 
strengthening- the outward defence, but leave it in 
such a state as to deceive an eye unaccustomed to 
see trees thus gutted of their insides ; and “ you 
may as well,” says Mr. Smeathman, “ step upon a 
cloud.” It is an extraordinary fact, that when these 
creatures have formed pipes in the roof of a house, 
instinct directs them to prevent its fall, which would 
ensue from their having sapped the posts on which 
it rests ; but, as they gnaw away the wood, they fill 
up the interstices with clay, tempered to a surprising 
degree of hardness ; so that, when the house is 
pulled down, these posts are transformed from wood 
to stone. They make the walls of their galleries of 
the same composition as their nests, varying the 
materials according to their kind : one species 

using red clay, another black clay, and a third a 
woody substance, cemented with gums, as a security 
from the attacks of their enemies, particularly the 
common ant, which, being defended by a strong, 
horny shell, is more than a match for them ; and 
when it can get at them, rapaciously seizes them, 
and drags them to its nest for food for its young 
brood. If any accident breaks down part of their 
walls, they repair the breach with all speed. Instinct 
guides them to perform their office in the creation, 
by mostly confining their attacks to trees that are 
beginning to decay, or such timber as has been se- 
vered from its root for use, and would decay in time. 
Vigorous, healthy trees do not require to be de- 
stroyed, and, accordingly, these consumers have no 
taste for them*. 

M. Adanson describes the termites of Senegal as 
constructing covert ways along the surface of wood 
which they intend to attack ; but though we have no 



* Smeathman. 







reason to distrust so excellent a naturalist, in de- 
scribing what he saw, it is certain that they more 
commonly eat their way into the interior of the wood, 
and afterwards form the galleries, when they find 
that they have destroyed the wood till it will no 
longer atford them protection. 

But it is time that we should come to their prin- 
cipal building, which may, with some propriety, be 
called a city ; and, according to the method we have 
followed in other instances, we shall trace their la- 
bours from the commencement. We shall begin 
with the operations of the species which may be ap- 
propriately termed the Warrior ( Termes fatalis, 
Linn.; T. Bellicosus, Sheath.). 




We must premise, that though they have been 
termed white ants , they do not belong to the same 
order of insects with our ants ; yet they have a 
slight resemblance to ants in their form, but more 
in their economy. Smeathman, to whom we owe 
our chief knowledge of the genus, describes them as 
consisting of kings, queens, soldiers, and workers, 
and is of opinion, that the workers are larvae, the 
soldiers nymphae, and the kings and queens the per- 
fect insects. In this opinion, he coincides with 
Sparrmann * and others ; but Latreille is inclined 

* Quoted by De Geer, vol. vii. 





to think, from what lie observed in a European 
species, ( Tennes lucifugus ,) found near Bordeaux, 
that the soldiers form a distinct race, like the neuter 
workers among bees and ants, while the working 
termites are larvae *, which are furnished with strong 
mandibles for gnawing ; when they become nymphs, 
the rudiments of four wings appear, which are fully 
developed in the perfect insects. In this state, they 
migrate to form new colonies, but the . greater number 
of them perish in a few hours, or become the prey of 
birds, and even the natives, who fry them as delicacies. 
“ I have discoursed with several gentlemen,” says 
Smeathman, “ upon the taste of the white ants, and on 
comparing notes, we have always agreed that they 
are most delicious and delicate eating. One gentle- 
man compared them to sugared marrow, another to 
sugared cream and a paste of sweet almonds j\” 

Mr. Smeathman’s very interesting paper affords us 
the most authentic materials for the further descrip- 
tion of these wonderful insects ; and we therefore 
continue partly to extract from, and partly to abridge, 
his account. 

The few pairs that are so fortunate as to survive 
the various casualties that assail them, are usually 
found by workers (larvae) which, at this season, are 
running continually on the surface of the ground, 
on the watch for them. As soon as they discover 
the objects of their search, they begin to protect 
them from their surrounding enemies, by enclosing 
them in a small chamber of clay, where they 
become the parents of a new community, and are 
distinguished from the other inhabitants of the nest, 
by the title of king and queen. Instinct directs 
the attention of these labouring insects to the pre- 
servation of their race, in the protection of this 

* Hist. Nat. Generate, vol. xiii. p. GO. 
f Smeatliman in Phil. Trans, vol. lxxi, p. 169, note, 





pail* and their offspring*. The chamber that forms 
the rudiment of a new nest, is contrived for their 
safety, but the entrances to it are too small to admit 
of their ever leaving* it ; consequently, the charge of 
the eggs devolves upon the labourers, who construct 
nurseries for their reception. These are small, irre- 
gularly-shape dchambers, placed at first round the 
apartment of the king and queen, and not exceeding 
the size of a hazel-nut ; but, in nests of long standing, 
they are of great comparative magnitude, and dis- 
tributed at a greater distance. The receptacles for 
hatching the young are all composed of wooden ma- 
terials, apparently joined together with gum, and, by 
way of defence, cased with clay. The chamber that 
contains the king and queen, is nearly on a level with 
the surface of the ground ; and as the other apart- 
ments are formed about it, it is generally situated at 
an equal distance from the sides of the nest, and di- 
rectly beneath its conical point. Those apartments 
which consist of nurseries and magazines of provi- 
sions, form an intricate labyrinth, being separated 
by small, empty chambers and galleries, which sur- 
round them, or afford a communication from one to 
another. This labyrinth extends on all sides to the 
outward shells, and reaches up within it to two- 
thirds or more of its height, leaving an open area 
above, in the middle, under the dome, which reminds 
the spectator of the nave of an old cathedral. 
Around this are raised three or four lanre arches, 
which are sometimes two or three feet high, next 
the front of the area, but diminish as they recede 
further back, and are lost amidst the innumerable 
chambers and nurseries behind them. 

Every one of these buildings consists of two dis- 
tinct parts, the exterior and the interior. The exterior 
is one large shell, in the manner of a dome, large and 
strong enough to inclose and shelter the interior from 





the vicissitudes of the weather, and the inhabitants 
from the attacks of natural or accidental enemies. It 
is always, therefore, much stronger than the interior 
building, which is the habitable part, divided, with a 
wonderful kind of regularity and contrivance, into an 
amazing number of apartments for the residence of 
the king and queen, and the nursing of the numerous 
progeny ; or for magazines, which are always found 
well filled with stores and provisions. The hills 
make their first appearance above ground by a little 
turret or two, in the shape of sugar-loaves, which are 
run a foot high, or more. Soon after, at some little 
distance, while the former are increasing in height 
and size, they raise others, and so go on increasing 
their number, and widening them at the base, till 
their works below are covered with these turrets, of 
which they always raise the highest and largest in 
the middle, and, by filling up the intervals between 
each turret, collect them into one dome. They are 
not very curious or exact in the workmanship, except 
in making them very solid and strong ; and when, 
by their joining them, the dome is completed, for 
which purpose the turrets answer as scaffolds, they 
take away the middle ones entirely, except the tops, 
which, joined together, make the crown of the cupola, 
and apply the clay to the building of the works 
within, or to erecting fresh turrets for the purpose of 
raising the hillock still higher ; so that some part of 
the clay is probably used several times, like the 
boards and posts of a mason’s scaffolds. 

When these hills are little more than half their 
height, it is always the practice of the wild bulls to 
stand as sentinels on them, while the rest of the herd 
are ruminating below. They are sufficiently strong 
for that purpose ; and, at their full height, answer 
excellently well as places of look out ; and Mr. 
Smeathman has been, with four more, on the top 
of one of these hillocks, to watch for a vessel in 







sight. The outward shell, or dome, is not only of use 
to protect and support the interior buildings from ex- 
ternal violence and the heavy rains, but to collect and 
preserve a regular degree of the warmth and moisture 
necessary for hatching; the eg'g;s and cherishing; the 
young. The royal chamber occupied by the king 
and queen, appears to be, in the opinion of this little 
people, of the most consequence, being always situ- 
ated as near the centre of the interior building as 
possible. It is always nearly in the shape of half an 
egg, or an obtuse oval, within, and may be supposed 
to represent a long oven. In the infant state of the 
colony, it is but about an inch in length ; but in 
time will be increased to six or eight inches, or more, 
in the clear, being always in proportion to the size of 
the queen, who, increasing in bulk as in age, at 
length requires a chamber of such dimensions. 




Queen distended with eggs. 



Its floor is yjerfectly horizontal, and, in large 
hillocks, sometimes more than an inch thick of solid 
clay. The roof also, which is one solid and well- 
turned oval arch, is generally of about the same 
solidity, but in some places it is not a quarter of an 
inch thick, on the sides where it joins the floor, and 
where the doors or entrances are made level with it, 
at nearly equal distances from each other. These 
entrances will not admit any animal larger than the 
soldiers or labourers , so that the king and the queen 







(who is, at full size, a thousand times the weight of 
a king) can never possibly go out, but remain close 
prisoners. 

The royal chamber, if in a large hillock, is sur- 
rounded by a countless number of others, of different 
sizes, shapes, and dimensions ; but all of them arched 
in one way or another — sometimes elliptical or oval. 
These either open into each other, or communicate 
by passages as wide, and are evidently made for the 
soldiers and attendants, of whom great numbers are 
necessary, and always in waiting. These apartments 
are joined by the magazines and nurseries. The former 
are chambers of clay, and are always well filled with 
provisions, which, to the naked eye, seem to consist 
of the raspings of wood, and plants which the ter- 
mites destroy ; but are found by the microscope to be 
principally the gums or inspissated juices of plants. 
These are thrown together in little masses, some of 
which are finer than others, and resemble the sugar 
about preserved fruits ; others are like tears of gum, 
one quite transparent, another like amber, a third 
brown, and a fourth quite opaque, as we see often in 
parcels of ordinary gums. These magazines are 
intermixed with the nurseries, which are buildings 
totally different from the rest of the apartments ; for 
these are composed entirely of wooden materials, 
seemingly joined together with gums. Mr. Smeath- 
man calls them the nurseries, because they are inva- 
riably occupied by the eggs and young ones, which 
appear at first in the shape of labourers, but white 
as snow. These buildings are exceedingly compact, 
and divided into many very small irregular-shaped 
chambers, not one of which is to be found of half an 
inch in width. They are placed all round, and as 
near as possible to the royal apartments. 

When the nest is in the infant state, the nurseries 
are close to the royal chambers ; but as, in process 







of time, the queen enlarges, it is necessary to enlarge 
the chamber for her accommodation ; and as she 
then lays a greater number of eggs, and requires a 
greater number of attendants, so it is necessary to 
enlarge and increase the number of the adjacent 
apartments ; for which purpose the small nurseries 
which are first built are taken to pieces, rebuilt a 
little further of a size larger, and the number of 
them increased at the same time. Thus they conti- 
nually enlarge their apartments, pull down, repair, 
or rebuild, according to their wants, with a degree of 
sagacity, regularity, and foresight, not even imitated 
by any other kind of animals or insects. 

All these chambers, and the passages leading to 
and from them, being arched, they help to support 
each other; and while the interior large arches prevent 
them from falling into the centre, and keep the area 
open, the exterior building supports them on the out- 
side. There are, comparatively speaking, few open- 
ings into the great area, and they, for the most part, 
seem intended only to admit into the nurseries that 
genial warmth which the dome collects. The interior 
building, or assemblage of nurseries, chambers, &c., 
has a flatfish top or roof, without any perforation, 
which would keep the apartments below dry, in case 
through accident the dome should receive any injury, 
and let in water ; and it is never exactly fiat and 
uniform, because the insects are always adding to it 
by building more chambers and nurseries ; so that 
the division or columns between the future arched 
apartments, resemble the pinnacles on the fronts of 
some old buildings, and demand particular notice, as 
affording one proof that for the most part the in- 
sects project their arches, and do not make them by 
excavation. The area has also a flatfish floor, which 
lies over the royal chamber, but sometimes a good 
height above it, having nurseries and magazines 







between. It is likewise waterproof, and contrived to 
let the water off if it should get in, and run over by 
some short way into the subterraneous passages, 
which run under the lowest apartments in the hill in 
various directions, and are of an astonishing size, 
being wider than the bore of a great cannon. One 
that Mr. Smeathman measured was perfectly cylin- 
drical, and thirteen inches in diameter. These sub- 
terraneous passages, or galleries, are lined very thick 
with the same kind of clay of which the hill is com- 
posed, and ascend the inside of the outward shell in 
a spiral manner ; and winding round the whole 
building up to the top, intersect each other at dif- 
ferent heights, opening either immediately in the 
dome in various places, and into the interior build- 
ing, the new turrets, &c., or communicating with 
them by other galleries of different diameters, either 
circular or oval. 

From every part of these large galleries are va- 
rious small covert ways, or galleries leading to differ- 
ent parts of the building. Under ground there are 
a great many that lead downward by sloping de- 
scents, three and four feet perpendicular among the 
gravel, whence the workers cull the finer parts, 
which, being kneaded up in their mouths to the con- 
sistence of mortar, becomes that solid clay or stone 
of which their hills and all their buildings, except 
their nurseries, are composed. Other galleries 
again ascend, and lead out horizontally on every 
side, and are carried under ground near to the sur- 
face a vast distance : for if all the nests are destroyed 
within a hundred yards of a house, the inhabitants 
of those which are left unmolested farther off, will 
still carry on their subterraneous galleries, and, in- 
vading it by sap and mine, do great mischief to the 
goods and merchandizes contained in it. 

It seems there is a degree of necessity for the gal- 







leries miclev the hills being thus large, since they are 
the great thoroughfares for all the labourers and sol- 
diers going forth or returning, whether fetching clay, 
wood, water, or provisions ; and they are certainly 
well calculated for the purposes to which they are 
applied by the spiral slope which is given them ; 
for if they were perpendicular, the labourers would 
not be able to carry on their building with so much 
facility, as they ascend a perpendicular with great 
difficulty, and the soldiers can scarcely do it at all. 
It is on this account that sometimes a road like a 
ledge is made on the perpendicular side of any part 
of the building within their hill, which is flat on the 
upper surface, and half an inch wide, and ascends 
gradually like a staircase, or like those winding roads 
which are cut on the sides of hills and mountains, 
that would otherwise be inaccessible ; by which and 
similar contrivances they travel with great facility to 
every interior part. 

This, too, is probably the cause of their building a 
kind of bridge of one great arch, which answers the 
purpose of a flight of stairs from the floor of the area 
to some opening on the side of one of the columns 
that support the great arches. This contrivance 
must shorten the distance exceedingly to those la- 
bourers who have the eggs to carry from the royal 
chamber to some of the upper nurseries, which in 
some hills would be four or five feet in the straight- 
est line, and much more if carried through all the 
winding passages leading through the inner cham- 
bers and apartments. Mr. Smeathman found one 
of these bridges, half an inch broad, a quarter of an 
inch thick, and ten inches long, making the side of an 
elliptic arch of proportionable size ; so that it is won- 
derful it did not fall over or break by its own weight 
before they got it joined to the side of the column 
above. 



a A covered way and rust of the Termites arhorum . b Section of the Hill nest of the Termites bcllicosi . 

c Hill-nest of the Termites beilicusi. 


 



It was strengthened by a small arch at the bottom 
and had a hollow or Groove all the length of th< 
upper surface, either made purposely for the inha- 









bitants to travel over with more safety, or else, which 
is not improbable, worn by frequent treading. 

Turret-Building White Ants. 

Apparently more than one species, smaller than 
the preceding, such as the Termes mordax and T. 
atrox of Smeathman, construct nests of a very dif- 
ferent form, the figures of which resemble a pillar, 
with a large mushroom for a capital. These turrets 
are composed of well-tempered black earth, and 
stand nearly three feet high. The conical mush- 
room-shaped roof is composed of the same material, 
and the brims hanc; over the column, beino; three or 
four inches wider than its perpendicular sides. Most 
of them, says Smeathman, resemble in shape the 
body of a round windmill, but some of the roofs 
have little elevation in the middle. When one of 
these turrets is completed, the insects do not after- 
wards enlarge or alter it ; but if it be found too small 




Turret Nests of JVhite Ants. One nest is represented cut through, with 
the upper part lying on the ground. 







for them, they lay the foundation of another at a few 
inches distance. They sometimes, but not often, begin 
the second before the first is finished, and a third 
before they have completed the second. Five or six 
of these singular turrets in a group may be seen in 
the thick woods at the foot of a tree. They are so 
very strongly built, that in case of violence, they will 
sooner tear up the gravel and solid heart of their 
foundation than break in the middle. When any of 
them happen to be thus thrown down, the insects 
do not abandon them ; but, using their overturned 
column as a basis, they run up another perpendicu- 
larly from it, to the usual height, fastening the under 
part at the same time to the ground, to render it the 
more secure. 

The interior of a turret is pretty equally divided 
into innumerable cells, irregular in shape, but usually 
more or less angular, generally quadrangular or 
pentagonal, though the angles are not well defined. 
Each shell has at least two entrances ; but there are 
no galleries, arches, nor wooden nurseries, as in the 
nests of the Warrior ( T. bellicosus). The two species 
which build turret nests are very different in size, 
and the dimensions of the nests differ in proportion. 

The White Ants of Trees. 

Latreille’s species of white ant ( Termes luc.ifugus , 
Rossi), formerly mentioned as found in the south of 
Europe, appear to have more the habits of the jet 
ant, described page 279, than their congeners of the 
tropics. They live in the interior of the trunks of 
trees, the wood of which they eat, and form their 
habitations of the galleries which they thus excavate. 
M. Latreille says they appear to be furnished with an 
acid for the purpose of softening the wood, the odour 
of which is exceedingly pungent. They prefer the 






part of the wood nearest to the bark, which they are 
careful not to injure, as it affords them protection. 
All the walls of their galleries are moistened with 
small globules of a gelatinous substance, similar to 
gum Arabic. They are chiefly to be found in the 
trunks of oak and pine trees, and are very numerous*. 

Another of the species ( Termes arborum), described 
by Smeathman, builds a nest on the exterior of trees, 
altogether different from any of the preceding. These 
are of a spherical or oval shape, occupying the arm 
or branch of a tree sometimes from seventy to eighty 
feet from the ground, and as large, in a few instances, 
as a sugar-cask. The composition used for a build- 
ing material is apparently similar to that used by the 
warriors for constructing their nurseries, being the 
gnawings of wood in very small particles, kneaded 
into a paste with some species of cement or glue, 
procured, as Smeathman supposes, partly from gum- 
miferous trees, and partly from themselves ; but it is 
more probable, we think, that it is wholly secreted, 
like the wax of bees, by the insects themselves. 
With this cement, whatever may be its composition, 
they construct their cells, in which there is nothing- 
very wonderful except their great numbers. They 
are very firmly built, and so strongly attached to the 
trees, that they will resist the most violent tornado. 
It is impossible, indeed, to detach them, except by 
cutting them in pieces, or sawing off the branch*, 
which is frequently done to procure the insects for 
young turkeys. (See engraving, p. 300, for a figure 
of this nest.) 

This species very often, instead of selecting the 
bough of a tree, builds in the roof or wall of a house, 
and unless observed in time and expelled, occasions 
considerable damage. It is easier, in fact, to shut 

* Latreille, Hist. Nat. Generale, tom. xiii. p. 64. 





one’s door against a fox or a thief, than to exclude 
such insidious enemies, whose aversion to light ren- 
ders it difficult to trace them even when they are 
numerous. 

If we reflect on the prodigious numbers of those 
insects, and their power and rapidity of destroying, 
we cannot but admire the wisdom of Providence in 
creating so indefatigable and useful an agent in 
countries where the decay of vegetable substances is 
rapid in proportion to the heat of the climate. We 
have already remarked that they always prefer de- 
caying or dead timber ; and it is indeed a very gene- 
ral law among insects which feed on wood to prefer 
what is unsound : the same principle holds with re- 
spect to fungi, lichens, and other parasitical plants. 

All the species of Termites are not social ; but the 
solitary ones do not, like their congeners, distinguish 
themselves in architecture. In other respects, their 
habits are more similar; for they destroy almost every 
substance, animal and vegetable. The most common 
of the solitary species must be familiar to all our 
readers by the name of wood-louse ( Tenues pulsa- 
torivm , Linn.; Atropos lignarius , Leach) — one of 
the insects which produces the ticking, supersti- 
tiously termed the death-watch. It is not so large as 
the common louse, but whiter and more slender, 
having a red mouth and yellow eyes. It lives in old 
books, the paper on walls, collections of insects and 
dried plants, and is extremely agile in its movements, 
darting, by jerks, into dark corners for the purpose 
of concealment. It does not like to run straight for- 
ward, without resting every half-second, as if to listen 
or look about for its pursuer, and at such resting 
times it is easily taken. The ticking noise is made 
by the insect beating against the wood with its head, 
and it is supposed by some to be peculiar to the fe- 
male, and to be connected with tlic laying of her eggs. 







M. Latreille, however, thinks that the wood-louse 
is only the grub of the Psocus abdominalis, in which 
case it could not lay eg’gs ; but this opinion is some- 
what questionable. Another death-watch is a small 
beetle ( Anobium tesselatum). 









“ Millions of spinning worms. 

That in their green shops weave the smooth-hair’d silk.” 

Milton’s Cumus. 



All the caterpillars of butterflies, moths, and, in 
general, of insects with four wings, are capable of 
spinning silk, of various degrees of fineness and 
strength, and differing in colour, but usually white, 
yellow, brown, black, or grey. This is not only of 
advantage in constructing nests for themselves, and 
particularly for their pupae, as we have so frequently 
exemplified in the preceding pages, but it enables 
them, the instant they are excluded from the egg, to 
protect themselves from innumerable accidents, as 
well as from enemies. If a caterpillar, for instance, 
be exposed to a gust of wind, and blown off from its 
native tree, it lets itself gently down, and breaks its 
fall, by immediately spinning a cable of silk, along 
which, also, it can reascend to its former station 
when the danger is over. In the same way, it fre- 
quently disappoints a bird that has marked it out for 
prey, by dropping hurriedly down from a branch, 
suspended to its never-failing delicate cord. The leaf- 
rollers, formerly described, have the advantage of 
other caterpillars in such cases, by being able to 
move as quickly backwards as forwards ; so that 
when a bird puts in its bill at one end of the roll, the 
insect makes a ready exit at the other, and drops 
along its thread as low as it judges convenient. We 







have seen caterpillars drop in this way from one to 
six feet or more ; and by means of their cable, which 
they are careful not to break, they climb back with 
great expedition to their former place. 

The structure of their leg's is well adapted for 
climbing up their singular rope — the six lore-legs 
being furnished with a curved claw ; while the pro- 
legs (as they have been termed) are no less fitted 
for holding them firm to the branch when they have 
regained it, being constructed on the principle of 
forming a vacuum, like the leather sucker with 
which boys lift and drag stones. The foot of the 
common fly has a similar sucker, by which it is 
enabled to w r alk on glass, and otherwise support it- 
self against gravity. The different forms of the leg 
and pro-leg of a spinning caterpillar are represented 
in the figure. 




Leg and Pro-leg of a Caterpillar, greatly magnified. 



In order to understand the nature of the appa- 
ratus by which a caterpillar spins its silk, it is to be 
recollected that its whole interior structure differs 
from that of warm-blooded animals. It has, pro- 
perly speaking, no heart, though a long tubular 
dorsal vessel , which runs along the back, and pul- 
sates from twenty to one hundred times per minute. 



 



has been called so by Malphigi and others: but 
neither Lyonnet nor Cuvier could detect any vessel 
issuing from it ; and consequently the fluid which is 
analogous to blood has no circulation. It differs also 
from the higher orders of animals in having no 
brain, the nerves running along the body being only 
united by little knobs, called ganglions. Another 
circumstance is, that it has no lungs, and does not 
breathe by the mouth, but by air-holes, or spiracles, 
eighteen in number, situated along the sides, in the 
middle of the rings, as may be seen in the following 
figure from Lyonnet : 




Caterpillar of the Goat-Moth ( Cossus ligniperda.) 



These spiracles communicate on each side with 
tubes, that have been called the wind-pipes (trachea). 
The spinning apparatus is placed near the mouth, 
and is connected with the silk-bags, which are long, 
slender, floating vessels, containing a liquid gum. 
The bags are closed at their lower extremity, become 
wider towards the middle, and more slender towards 
the head, where they unite to form the spinning-tube, 
or spinneret. The bags being in most cases longer 
than the body of the caterpillar, necessarily lie in a 
convoluted state, like the intestines of quadrupeds. 
The capacity, or rather the length, of the silk-bags, 
is in proportion to the quantity of silk required for 
spinning ; the Cossus ligniperda , for example, from 
living in the wood of trees, spins little, having a bag 
only one-fourth the length of that of the silk-worm, 
though the caterpillar is at least twice the dimensions 
of the latter. The following figure, taken from the 







admirable treatise of Lyonnet on the anatomy of the 
Cossus, will render these several organs more easily 
understood than any description. 

The spinneret itself was supposed by Reaumur to 
have two outlets for the silk ; but Lyonnet, upon 
minute dissection, found that the two tubes united 
into one before their termination ; and he also almost 
assured himself that it was composed of alternate 
slips of horny and membranaceous substance, — the 
one for pressing the thread into a small diameter, and 
the other for enlarging it at the insect’s pleasure. It 
is cut at the end somewhat like a writing-pen, though 
with less of a slope, and is admirably fitted for being 
applied to objects to which it may be required to 
attach silk. The following are magnified figures of 
the spinneret of the Cossus from Lyonnet. 




Side view of the Silk-tube. Section of the Silk-tube, magnified 22,000 times. 

“ You may sometimes have seen,” says the x\bbe 
de la Pluche, “ in the work-rooms of goldsmiths or 
gold wire-drawers, certain iron plates, pierced with 
holes of different calibres, through which they draw 
gold and silver wire, in order to render it finer. The 
silk-worm has under her mouth such a kind of instru- 
ment, perforated with a pair of holes [united into one 
on the outside *], through which she draws two drops 
of the gum that fills her two bags. These instruments 



* Lyonnet. 








Labium , or lower lip of Cossus. — a. Silk-tube. 



are like a pair of distaffs for spinning the gum into a 
silken thread. She fixes the first drop of gum that 
issues where she pleases, and then draws back her 
head, or lets herself fall, while the gum continuing 
to flow, is drawn out and lengthened into a double 
stream. Upon being exposed to the air, it imme- 
diately loses its fluidity, becomes dry, and accjuires 
consistence and strength. She is never deceived in 
adjusting the dimensions of the [united] apertures, 
or in calculating the proper thickness of the thread, 
but invariably makes the strength of it proportion- 
able to the weight of her body. 

“ It would be a very curious thing to know how 
the gum which composes the silk is separated and 
drawn off from the other juices that nourish the 
animal. It must be accomplished like the secre- 
tions formed by glands in the human body. I am 
therefore persuaded that the gum-bags of the silk- 
worm are furnished with a set of minute glands, 
which, being impregnated with gum, afford a free 
passage to all the juices of the mulberry-leaf corres- 







ponding with this glutinous matter, while they ex- 
clude every fluid of a different quality*.” When 
confined in an open glass vessel, the goat-moth cater- 
pillar will effect its escape, by constructing a curious 
silken ladder, as represented by Roesel. 

Caterpillars, as they increase in size, cast their 
skins as lobsters do their shells, and emerge into re- 
newed activity under an enlarged covering. Previous 
to this change, when the skin begins to gird and 
pinch them, they maybe observed to become languid, 
and indifferent to their food,. and at length they cease 
to eat, and await the sloughing of their skin. It is 
now that the faculty of spinning silk seems to be of 
great advantage to them ; for being rendered inac- 
tive and helpless by the. tightening of the old skin 
around their expanding body, they might be swept 
away by the first puff of wind, and made prey of by 
ground beetles or other carnivorous prowlers. To 
guard against such accidents, as soon as they feel 
that they can swallow no more food from being half 
choked by the old skin, they take care to secure 
themselves from danger by moorings of silk spun 
upon the leaf or the branch where they may be re- 
posing. The caterpillar of the white satin-moth 
( Leucoma salicis , Stephens) in this way draws to- 
gether with silk one or two leaves, similar to the leaf- 
rollers ( Tortricidce ), though it always feeds openly 
without any covering. The caterpillar of the puss- 
moth again, which, in its third skin, is large and 
heavy, spins a thick web on the upper surface 
of a leaf, to which it adheres till the change is 
effected. 

The most important operation, how r ever, of silk- 
spinning is performed before the caterpillar is trans- 
formed into a chrysalis, and is most remarkable in 
the caterpillars of moths and other four-winged flies, 
* Spectacle tie la Nature, vol. i. 





with the exception of those of butterflies ; for though 
these exhibit, perhaps, greater ingenuity, they seldom 
spin more than a few threads to secure the chrysalis 
from falling, whereas the others spin for it a com- 
plete envelope or shroud. We have already seen, in 
the preceding pages, several striking instances of this, 
operation, when probably for the purpose of husband- 
ing a scanty supply of silk, extraneous substances are 
worked into the texture. In the case of other cater- 
pillars, silk is the only material employed. Of this 
the cocoon of the silk-worm is the most prominent 
example, in consequence of its importance . in our 
manufactures and commerce, and on that account 
will demand from us somewhat minute details, though 
it would require volumes to incorporate all the in- 
formation which has been published on the subject. 

• - Silk-Worm. 

The silk-worm, like most other caterpillars, changes 
its skin four times during its growth. The intervals 
at which the four moultings follow each other depend 
much on climate or temperature, as well as on the 
quality and quantity of food. It is thence found, 
that if they are exposed to a high temperature, say 
from Sl° to 100° Fahrenheit, the moultings will be 
hastened ; and only five days will be consumed in 
moulting the third or fourth time, whilst those worms 
that have not been hastened take seven or eight 
days*. 

The period of the moultings is also influenced by 
the temperature in which the eggs have been kept 
during the winter. When the heat of the apartment 
has been regulated, the first moulting takes place on 
the fourth or fifth day after hatching, the second 
begins on the eighth day, the third takes up the 
thirteenth and fourteenth days, and the last occurs 

* Cours d’ Agriculture, par M. Rozier. Paris, 1801. 







on the twenty-second and twenty-third days. The 
fifth age, in such cases, lasts ten days, at the end of 
which, or thirty-two days after hatching, the cater- 
pillars attain their full growth, and ought to be three 
inches in length; but if they have not been properly 
fed, they will not be so long. 

With the age of the caterpillar, its appetite in- 
creases, and is at its maximum after the fourth moult- 
ing, when it also attains its greatest size. The silk 
gum is then elaborated in the reservoirs, while the 
caterpillar ceases to eat, and soon diminishes again 
in size and weight. This usually requires a period 
of nine or ten days, commencing from the fourth 
moulting, after which it begins to spin its shroud of 
silk. In this operation it proceeds with the greatest 
caution, looking carefully for a spot in which it may 
be most secure from interruption. 

“ We usually,” says the Abbe de la Pluche, “ give 
it some little stalks of broom, heath, or a piece of 
paper rolled up, into which it retires, and begins to 
move its head to different places, in order to fasten 
its thread on every side. All this work, though it 
looks to a bystander like confusion, is not without 
design. The caterpillar neither arranges its threads 
nor disposes one over another, but contents itself 
with distending a sort of cotton or floss to keep off 
the rain ; for Nature having ordained silk-worms to 
work under trees, they never change their method, 
even when they are reared in our houses. 

“ When my curiosity led me to know how they 
spun and placed their beautiful silk, I took one of 
them, and frequently removed the floss with which it 
first attempted to make itself a covering; and as by 
this means I weakened it exceedingly, when it at last 
became tired of beginning anew, it fastened its threads 
on the first thing it encountered, and began to spin 
very regularly in my presence, bending its head up 







and down, and crossing- to every side. It soon con- 
fined its movements to a very contracted space, and, by 
degrees, entirely surrounded itself with silk ; and the 
remainder of its operations became invisible, though 
these may be understood from examining the work 
after it is finished. In order to complete the struc- 
ture, it must draw out of the gum-bag a more deli- 
cate silk, and then with a stronger gum bind all the 
inner threads over one another. 

“ Here, then, are three coverings entirely differ- 
ent, which afford a succession of shelter. The outer 
loose silk, or floss, is for keeping off the rain ; the 
fine silk in the middle prevents the wind from causing 
injury ; and the glued silk, which composes the 
tapestry of the chamber where the insect lodges, re- 
pels both air and water, and prevents the intrusion 
of cold. 

“ After building her cocoon, she divests herself of 
her fourth skin, and is transformed into a chrysalis, 
and subsequently into a moth ( Bombyoc mori), when, 
without saw or centre-bit, she makes her way through 
the shell, the silk, and the floss ; for the Being who 
teaches her how to build herself a place of rest, where 
the delicate limbs of the moth may be formed without 
interruption, instructs her likewise how to open a 
passage for escape. 

“ The cocoon is like a pigeon’s egg, and more 
pointed at one end than the other ; and it is remark- 
able that the caterpillar does not interweave its silk 
towards the pointed end, nor apply its glue there as 
it does in every other part*, by bending itself all 
around with great pliantness and agility : what is 
more, she never fails, when her labour is finished, to 
fix her head opposite to the pointed extremity. The 
reason of her taking this position is, that she has 



* This is denied by recent observers. 

 



purposely left this part less strongly cemented, and 
less exactly closed. She is instinctively conscious 
that this is to be the passage for the perfect insect 
which she carries in her bowels, and has therefore 
the additional precaution never to place this pointed 
extremity against any substance that might obstruct 
the moth at the period of its egress. 

“ When the caterpillar has exhausted herself to 
furnish the labour and materials of the three cover- 
ings, she loses the form of a worm, her spoils drop 
all around the chrysalis ; first throwing off her 
skin, with the head and jaws attached to it, and the 
new skin hardening into a sort of leathery consist- 
ence. Its nourishment is already in its stomach, and 
consists of a yellowish mucus, but gradually the rudi- 
ments of the moth unfold themselves, — the wings, 
the antennee, and the legs becoming solid. In about 
a fortnight or three weeks, a slight swelling in the 
chrysalis may be remarked, which at length produces 
a rupture in the membrane that covers it, and by 
repeated efforts the moth bursts through the leathery 
envelope into the chamber of the cocoon. 

“ The moth then extends her antennae, together 
with her head and feet, towards the point of the cone, 
which not being thickly closed up in that part gra- 
dually yields to her efforts ; she enlarges the opening, 
and at last comes forth, leaving at the bottom of the 
cone the ruins of its former state — namely, the head 
and entire skin of the caterpillar, which bear some 
resemblance to a heap of foul linen * ” 

Reaumur was of opinion that the moth makes use 
of its eyes as a file, in order to effect its passage 
through the silk; while Malpighi, Peck, and others, 
believe that it is assisted by an acid which it dis- 
charges in order to dissolve the gum that holds the 



* Spectacle de la Nature, vol. i. 







fibres of the silk together (see p. 195). Mr. Swayne 
denies that the threads are broken at all, either by 
filing or solution ; for he succeeded in unwinding a 
whole cocoon from which the moth had escaped. The 
soiling of the cocoon by a fluid, however, we may 
remark, is no proof of the acid ; for all moths and 
butterflies discharge a fluid when they assume wings, 
whether they be inclosed in a cocoon or not ; but 
it gives no little plausibility to the opinion, that “ the 
end of the cocoon is observed to be wetted for an 
hour, and sometimes several hours, before the moth 
makes its way out Other insects employ different 
contrivances for escape, as we have already seen, and 
shall still further exemplify. 

It is the middle portion of the cocoon, after re- 
moving the floss or loose silk on the exterior, which 
is used in our manufactures ; and the first prepara- 
tion is to throw the cocoons into warm water, and 
stir them about with twigs, to dissolve any slight 
gummy adhesions which may have occurred when 
the caterpillar was spinning. The threads of several 
cones, according to the strength of the silk wanted, 
are then taken and wound off upon a reel. The 
refuse, consisting of what we may call the tops and 
bottoms of the cones, are not wound, but carded, 
like wool or cotton, in order to form coarser fabrics. 
We learn from the fact of the cocoons being gene- 
rally unwound without breaking the thread, that the 
insect spins the whole without interruption. It is 
popularly supposed, however, that if it be disturbed 
during the operation by any sort of noise, it will 
take alarm, and break its thread ; but Latreille says 
this is a vulgar error f. 

* Count Daudolo’s Art of Rearing' Silk-Worms, Eng. Transl. 
p. 21 5. 

f On a tort de croire que le bruit nuise a ces insectes. Hist. 
Nat, General., vol. xiii,, p, 170. 







The length of the unbroken thread in a cocoon 
varies from six hundred to a thousand feet ; and as 
it is all spun double by the insect, it will amount to 
nearly two thousand feet of silk, the whole of which 
does not weigh above three grains and a half: five 
pounds of silk from ten thousand cocoons is consi- 
derably above the usual average. When we consider, 
therefore, the enormous quantity of silk which is 
used at present, the number of worms employed in 
producing it will almost exceed our comprehension. 
The manufacture of the silk, indeed, gives employ- 
ment, and furnishes subsistence, to several millions 
of human beings ; and we may venture to say, that 
there is scarcely an individual in the civilized world 
who has not some article made of silk in his pos- 
session. 

In ancient times, the manufacture of silk was 
confined to the East Indies and China, where the 
insects that produce it are indigenous. It was 
thence brought to Europe in small quantities, and in 
early times sold at so extravagant a price, that it was 
deemed too expensive even for royalty. The Emperor 
Aurelian assigned the expense as a reason for re- 
fusing his empress a robe of silk ; and our own 
James I., before his accession to the crown of Eng- 
land, had to borrow of the Earl of Mar a pair of 
silk stockings to appear in before the English am- 
bassador, — a circumstance which probably led him to 
promote the cultivation of silk in England*. The Ro- 
man authors were altogether ignorant of its origin, — 
some supposing it to be grown on trees, as hair 
grows on animals, — others that it was produced by a 
shell-fish similar to the mussel, which is known to 
throw out threads for the purpose of attaching itself 
to rocks, — others that it was the entrails of a sort of 



* Shaw’s Gen. Zoology, vol. vi. 







spider, which was fed for four years with paste, and 
then with the leaves of the green-willow, till it burst 
with fat, — and others that it was the produce of a 
worm which built nests of clay and collected wax. 
The insect was at leng'th spread into Persia; and 
eggs were afterwards, at the instance of the Emperor 
J ustinian, concealed in hollow canes by two monks , 
and conveyed to the isle of Cos. This emperor, in 
the sixth century, caused them to be introduced into 
Constantinople, and made an object of public utility. 
They were thence successively cultivated in Greece, in 
Arabia, in Spain, in Italy, in France, and in all places 
where any hope could be indulged of their succeed- 
ing. In America, the culture of the silk-worm was 
introduced into Virginia in the time of James I., who 
himself composed a book of instructions on the sub- 
ject, and caused mulberry-trees and silk-worm’s egg 
to be sent to the colony. In Georgia, also, lands 
were granted on condition of planting one hundred 
white mulberry-trees on every ten acres of cleared 
land *. 

The growth of the silk-worm has also been tried, 
but with no great success, in this country. Evelyn 
computed that one mulberry-tree would feed as many 
silk-worms annually as would produce seven pounds 
of silk. “ According to that estimate,” says Barham t, 
“ the two thousand trees already planted in Chelsea 
Park (which take up one-third of it) will make 
14,0001bs. weight of silk; to be commonly worth but 
twenty shillings a pound, those trees must make 
<£1.4,000 per annum.” During the last century, some 
French refugees in the south of Ireland made con- 
siderable plantations of the mulberry, and had begun 

* North American Review, Oct. 1828, p.449. 

f Essay on the .Silk-Worm, p. 95. London, 1719. 






the cultivation of silk with every appearance of 
success ; but since their removal the trees have been 
cut down*. In the vicinity of London, also, a 
considerable plantation of mulberry-trees were pur- 
chased by the British, Irish, and Colonial Silk 
Company in 1825 ; but we have not learned whether 
this Company have any active measures now in 
operation. 

The manufacture of silk was introduced into this 
country in 1718, at Derby, by Mr. John Lombe, who 
travelled into Italy to obtain the requisite informa- 
tion ; but so jealous were the Italians of this, that 
according to some statements which have obtained 
belief, he fell a victim to their revenge, having been 
poisoned at the early age of twenty-nine t- 

There are not only several varieties of the common 
silk-worm ( Bombyx mori ), but other species of ca- 
terpillars, which spin silk capable of being manufac- 
tured, though not of so good qualities as the common 
silk. None of our European insects, however, seem 
to be well fitted for this purpose, though it has been 
proposed by Fabricius and others to try the crimson 
under-wing ( Catocala sponsa, Schrank), &c. M. 
Latreille quotes from the ‘ Recreations of Natural 
History,’ by Wilhelm, the statement that the cocoons 
of the emperor-moth ( Saturnia pcmonia) had been 
successfully tried in Germany, by M. Wentzel Hegeer 
de Berchtoldsdorf, under an imperial patent. 

Emperor-Moth. 

The emperor-moth, indeed, is no less w r orthy of 
our attention with respect to the ingenuity of its ar- 
chitecture, than the beauty of its colours, and has 

* Preface to Dandolo on the Silk-Worm, Eng. Transl. p. xiii. 

-{¦ Glover’s Directory of the County of Derby, introd. p. xvi. 







consequently attracted the attention of every Ento- 
mologist. The caterpillar feeds on fruit-trees and 
on the willow, and spins a cocoon, in form of a Flo- 
rence flask, of strong silk, so thickly woven, that it 
appears almost like damask or leather. It differs 
from most other cocoons in not being closed at the 
upper or smaller end, which terminates in a narrow 
circular aperture, formed by the convergence of little 
bundles of silk, gummed together, and almost as 
elastic as whalebone. In consequence of all these 
terminating in needle-shaped points, the entrance of 
depredators is guarded against, upon the prin- 
ciple which prevents the escape of a mouse from a 
wire trap. The insect, however, not contented with 
this protection, constructs another in form of a 
canopy or dome, within the external aperture, so as 
effectually to shield the chrysalis from danger. We 
have formerly remarked (page 192) that the cater- 
pillar of the JEgeria asiliformis of Stephens, in a si- 
milar way did not appear to be contented with a co- 
vering of thin wood, without an additional bonnet of 
brown wax. The cocoon of the emperor-moth, though 




* Cucoonsaf the Emperor-moth cut open tu show their structure. 



 



thus in some measure impenetrable from without, is 
readily opened from within ; and when the moth 
issues from its pupa case, it easily makes its way 
out without either the acid or eye-files ascribed to the 
silk-worm. The elastic silk gives way upon being- 
pushed from within, and when the insect is fairly 
out, it shuts again of its own accord, like a door 
with spring hinges, — a circumstance which at first 
puzzled Roesel not a little when he saw a fine large 
moth in his box, and the cocoon apparently in the 
same state as when he had put it there. Another 
naturalist conjectures that the converging threads are 
intended to compress the body of the moth as it 
emerges, in order to force the fluids into the nervures 
of the wings ; for when he took the chrysalis pre- 
viously out of the cocoon, the wings of the moth never 
expanded properly*. Had he been much conversant 
with breeding insects, he would rather, we think, 
have imputed this to some injury which the chrysalis 
had received. We have witnessed the shrivelling of 
the wings which he alludes to, in many instances, and 
not unfrequently in butterflies which spin no cocoon. 
The shrivelling, indeed, frequently arises from the 
want of a sufficient supply of food to the caterpillar 
in its last stage, occasioning a deficiency in the fluids. 

The elasticity of the cocoon is not peculiar to the 
emperor-moth. A much smaller insect, the green 
cream-border-moth ( Tortrix clilorcina ) before men- 
tioned (page 170), for its ingenuity in bundling up 
the expanding leaves of the willow, also spins an 
elastic shroud for its chrysalis, of the singular shape 
of a boat with the keel uppermost. Like the cater- 
pillar of Pyrcilis strigulalis (page 19S), whose build- 
ing, though of different materials, is exactly of the 
same form, — it first spins two approximating walls 



* Meinecken, quoted by Kirby and Spence, in. 2S0. 







of whitish silk, of the form required, and when 
these are completed, it draws them forcibly together 
with elastic threads, so placed as to retain them 
closely shut. The passage of the moth out of this 
cocoon might have struck Roesel as still more mar- 
vellous than that of his emperor, in which there was 
at least a small opening ; while in the boat cocoon 
there is none. We have now before us two of these, 
which we watched the caterpillars through the pro- 
cess of building, in the summer of 1828, and from 
one only a moth issued, — the other, as often happens, 
having died in the chrysalis. But what is most re- 
markable, it is impossible by the naked eye to tell 
which of these two has been opened by the moth, so 
neatly has the joining been finished*. 

Some species of moths spin a very slight silken 
tissue for their cocoons, being apparently intended 
more to retain them from falling, than to afford pro- 
tection from other accidents. The gipsey-moth 
( Hypogymna dispar ), rare in most parts of Britain, 
is one of these. It selects for its retreat a crack in 
the bark of the tree upon which it feeds, and over 
this spins only a few straggling threads. We found 
last summer (1829), in the hole of an elm-tree in the 
Parc at Brussels, a group of half a dozen of these, 
that did not seem to have spun any covering at all, 
but trusted to a curtain of moss ( Hypna ) which 
margined the entrancef. In a species nearly allied to 
this, the yellow-tussock ( Dasychira pudibunda , Ste- 
phens), the cocoon, one of which we have now before 
us, is of a pretty close texture, and interwoven with 
the long hairs of the caterpillar itself (see the right 
hand top figure, page 20), which it plucks out piece- 
meal during the process of building, — as is also done 



* J. R. 



f J. R. 







by the vapourer ( Orgyia antiqua, IIubner), and 
many others. 

These are additional instances of the remarks we 
formerly made, that caterpillars which spin a slight 
web are transformed into perfect insects in a much 
shorter period than those which spin more substantial 
ones. Thus the cream-spot tyger ( Arctia villica, 
Stephens) lies in chrysalis only three weeks, and 
therefore does not require a strong web. It is figured 
below, along with another, which is still slighter, 
though more ingeniously woven, being regularly 
meshed like net-work. 



Cocoon of Arctia villica. 





Net work cocoon. 



A very prettily-netted cocoon is constructed by the 
grub of a very small grey weevil ( Hypera Rumicis ), 
which is not uncommon in July, on the seed spikes 
of docks (Rumices). This cocoon is globular, and 
not larger than a garden pea, though it appears to 







be very large in proportion to the pupa of the insect, 
reminding us not a little of the carved ivory balls 
from China. The meshes of the net- work are also 
large, but the materials , are strong and of a waxy 
consistence. Upon remarking that no netting was 
ever spun over the part of the plant to which the 
cocoon was attached, we endeavoured to make them 
spin cocoons perfectly globular, by detaching them 
when nearly finished ; but though we tried four or 
five in this way, we could not make them add a sin- 
gle mesh after removal, all of them making their 
escape through the opening, and refusing to re-enter 
in order to complete their structure*. 

The silk, if it may be so termed, spun by many 
species of larvae is of a still stronger texture than the 
waxy silk of the little weevil just mentioned. We 
recently met with a remarkable instance of this at 
Lee, in the cocoons of one of the larger ich- 
neumons ( Ophion Vinulce? Stephens), inclosed 
in that of a puss-moth ( Cerura Vinula ) — itself re- 
markable for being composed of sand as well as wood, 
the fibres of which had been scooped out of the under- 
ground cross-bar of an old paling, to which it was 
attached. But the most singular portion of this was 
the junction of the outer wall with the edges of the 
hollow thus scooped out, which was formed of fibres 
of wood placed across the fibres of the bar nearly at 
right angles, and strongly cemented together, as if 
to form a secure foundation for the building. 

In this nest were formed, surreptitiously introduced 
into the original building, five empty cells of a black 
colour, about an inch long, and a sixth of an inch in 
diameter ; nearly cylindrical in form, but somewhat 
flattened; vertical and parallel to one another, though 
slightly curved on the inner side. The cells are com- 



2 F 



* J.R. 



 



posed of strong and somewhat coarse fibres, more 
like the carbonized rootlets of a tree than silk, and 
resembling in texture a piece of coarse milled cloth 
or felt, such as is used for the bases of plated hats. 
It is worthy of remark, that all these cells opened 



Nest of Puss-Moth, inclosing Jive cocoons of an Ichneumon. 

Natural size. 




towards one end, as if the caterpillars which con- 
structed them had been aware that the wall of the 
puss-moth, in which the flies would have to make a 
breach, was very hard, and would require their 
united elforts to effect an escape. The importance 
of such a precaution will appear more strikingly, 
when we compare it with the instance formerly men- 
tioned (page 195), in which only one ichneumon 
had been able to force its way out*. 

It appears indispensable to some grubs to be con- 
fined within a certain space, in order to construct 
their cocoons. We saw this well exemplified in the 
instance of a grub of one of the mason-bees (Osmia 
bicornis ), which we took from its nest, and put into 



* J. R. 







a box, with the pollen paste which the mother bee 
had provided for its subsistence. (See pages 40, 41.) 
When it had completed its growth, it began to spin, 
but in a very awkward manner — attaching threads, 
as if at random, to the bits of pollen which re- 
mained undevoured, and afterwards tumbling about 
to another part of the box, as if dissatisfied with 
what it had done. It sometimes persevered to spin 
in one place till it had formed a little vaulted wall ; 
but it abandoned at the least three or four of these 
in order to begin others, till at length, as if com- 
pelled by the extreme urgency of the stimulus of its 
approaching change, it completed a shell of shining 
brown silk, woven into a close texture. Had the 
grub remained within the narrow clay cell built for it 
by the mother bee, it would, in all probability, not 
have thus exhausted itself in vain efforts at building, 
which were likely to prevent it from ever arriving at 
the perfect state — a circumstance which often happens 
in the artificial breeding of insects*. 

Beside silk, the cocoons of many insects are 
composed of other animal secretions, intended to 
strengthen or otherwise perfect their texture. We 
have already seen that some caterpillars pluck off 
their own hair to interweave amongst their silk : 
there are others which produce a peculiar substance 
for the same purpose. The lackey caterpillar ( Clisio - 
campa neustria , Curtis) in this manner lines its 
cocoon with pellets of a downy substance, resem- 
bling little tufts of the flowers of sulphur. The 
small egger, again ( Eriogaster lanestris, Germar), 
can scarcely be said to employ silk at all, — the 
cocoon being of a uniform texture, looking, at 
first sight, like dingy Paris plaster, or the shell 
of a pheasant’s egg, but upon being broken, and 



* J. R. 











inspected narrowly, a few threads of silk may be 
seen interspersed through the whole. In size, it is 
not larger than the egg of the gold-crested wren. It 
has been considered by Brahm a puzzling circum- 
stance, that this cocoon is usually perforated with 
one or two little holes, as if made by a pin from 
without; and Kirby and Spence tell us that their 
use has not been ascertained*. May they not be left as 
air-holes for the included chrysalis, as the close texture 
of the cocoon might, without this provision, prove 
fatal to the animal? Yet, on comparing one of these 
with a similar cocoon of the large egger-moth ( La - 
siocampa Quercus ), we find no air-holes in the latter, 
as we might have been led to expect from the 
closeness of its texture. We found a cocoon of a 
saw-fly ( Tricliiosoma ), about the same size as that 
of the egger, attached to a hawthorn twig, in a 
hedge at New Cross, Deptford, but of a leathery 
texture, and, externally, exactly the colour of the 
bark of the tree. This was also without air-holes. 
The egger, we may remark, unlike the dock-weevil 
or the bee-grub just mentioned, can work her co- 
coon without any point of attachment. We had a 
colony of these caterpillars in the summer of 1825, 
brought from Epping Forest, and saw several of 
them work their cocoons, and we could not but ad- 
mire the dexterity with which they avoided filling up 
the little pin holes. The supply of their building 
material was evidently measured out to them in the 
exact quantity required; for when we broke down a 
portion of their wall, by way of experiment, they did 
not make it above half the thickness of the previous 
portion, though they plainly preferred having a thin 
wall to leaving the breach unclosed f. 

Several species of caterpillars that spin only silk, 

* Brahm’slns. Nat. 289, and Kirby and Spence’s Intr. iii. 223. 

t J. R. 







are social, like some of those we formerly mentioned, 
which unite to form a common tent of leaves (see 
pages 172, 3). The most common instance of this, is 
in the caterpillars which feed on the nettle — the small 
tortoise-shell ( Vanessa urticce ), and the peacock’s eye 
(V.1'6.) Colonies of these may be seen, after Mid- 
summer, on almost every clump of nettles, inhabiting 
a thin web of an irregular oval shape, from which 
they issue out to feed on the leaves, always returning 
when their appetite is satisfied, to assist their com- 
panions in extending their premises. Other ex- 
amples, still more conspicuous from being seen on 
fruit-trees and in hedges, occur in the caterpillars of 
the small ermine-moth ( Yponomeuta padella), and 
of the lackey ( Clisiocampa neustria ), which in some 
years are but too abundant, though in others they 
are seldom met with. In the summer of 1826, 
every hedge and fruit-tree around London swarmed 
with colonies of the ermine, though it has not since 
been plentiful ; and in the same way, during the 
summer of 1829, the lackeys were to be seen every 
where. We mention this irregularity of appearance, 
that our readers may not disappoint themselves by 
looking for what is not always to be found. It is 
probable, that in 1830, the lackeys will be few, for, 
notwithstanding the myriads of caterpillars last 
summer, we saw only a single moth of this species, 
and out of a number of chrysalides which a young 
friend had in his nurse-boxes, not one moth was bred. 

The caterpillars of other moths, which are in some 
years very common — such as the brown-tail (Por- 
thesia auriflua ,) and the golden-tail (P. Chry- 
sorrhcea,) are also social; and, as the eggs are 
hatched late in the summer, the brood passes the 
winter in a very closely woven nest of warm silk. 
This is usually represented as composed of leaves 
which have had their pulpy parts eaten as food 

2 f 3 







by the colonists; but from minute observation of 
at least twenty of these nests in the winter of 
1828-9, we are quite satisfied that leaves are only 
an accidental, and not a necessary part of the struc- 
ture. When a leaf happens to be in the line of the 
walls of the nest, it is included ; but there is no appa- 
rent design in pressing it into the service, nor is a 
branch selected because it is leafy. On the con- 
trary, by far the greater number of these nests do not 
contain a single leaf, but are composed entirely of 
grey silk. In external form, no two of these nests 
are alike ; as it depends entirely upon the form of 
the branch. When, therefore, there is only one twig, 
it is somewhat egg-shaped ; but when there are 
several twigs, it commonly joins each, assuming an 
angular shape, as may be seen in the figure. 




Winter nest of the Social Caterpillars of the Brown-tail Moth 
(Porthesia auriflua), figured from specimen. 







This irregularity arises from the circumstance of 
each individual acting on its own account, without 
the direction or superintendence of the others. The 
interior of the structure is, for the same reason, 
more regular, being divided into compartments, each 
of which forms a chamber for one or more indi- 
viduals. Previous to the cold weather, these cham- 
bers have but slight partitions ; but before the frosts 
set in the whole is made thick and warm. 




/Pinter nests of Porthesia chrysorrhcca, one being cut open to show 
the chambers. The dots represent the egesta of the caterpillars. 

A no less remarkable winter nest, of a small spe- 
cies of social caterpillar, is described by M. Bonnet, 
which we omitted to introduce when treating of the 
Glanville fritillary (page 172). The nest in question 
is literally pendulous, being hung from the branch of 
a fruit-tree by a strong silken thread. It consists of 
one or two leaves neatly folded, and held together 






with silk, in which the caterpillars live harmoniously 
together. 




Pendulous leaf-nests, from Bonnet. 



In a recently published volume of * Travels in 
Mexico,’ we find a very remarkable account of some 
pendulous nests of caterpillars, which appear to be 
almost as curious as the nests of the card-maker 
wasps, described at p. 88. The author of these 
travels does not define the species of caterpillar, 
whose constructions excited his observation. He 
says, “ After having ascended for about an hour, we 
came to the region of oaks and other majestically 
tall trees, the names of which I could not learn. 
Suspended from their stately branches, were innu- 
merable nests, enclosed, apparently, in white paper 
bags, in the manner of bunches of grapes in Eng- 
land, to preserve them from birds and flies. I had 
the curiosity to examine one of them, which I found 
to contain numberless caterpillars. The texture is 
so strong that it is not easily torn ; and the interior 
contained a quantity of green leaves, to support the 
numerous progeny within*.” 



* Hardy’s Travels in the Interior of Mexico, p. 32. 







In all the nests of social caterpillars, care is 
taken to leave apertures for passing out and in. 
It is remarkable, also, that however far they may 
ramble from their nest, they never fail to find 
their way back, when a shower of rain or night- 
fall renders shelter necessary. It requires no great 
shrewdness to discover how they effect this ; for 
by looking closely at their track it will be found 
that it is carpeted with silk — no individual moving 
an inch without constructing such a pathway, both 
for the use of his companions and to facilitate his 
own return. All these social caterpillars, therefore, 
move more or less in processional order, each follow- 
ing the road which the first chance traveller has 
marked out with his strip of silk carpeting. 

There, are some species, however, which are more 
remarkable than others in the regularity of their pro- 
cessional marchings, particularly two which are found 
in the South of Europe, but are not indigenous in 
Britain. The one named by Reaumur the proces- 
sionary ( Cnethocampa processioned, Stephens) feeds 
upon the oak ; a brood dividing, when newly hatched, 
into one or more parties of several hundred indivi- 
duals, which afterwards unite in constructing a com- 
mon nest nearly two feet long, and from four to six 
inches in diameter. As it is not divided like that 
of the brown-tails into chambers, but consists of one 
large hall, it is not necessary that there should be 
more openings than one ; and accordingly when an 
individual goes out and carpets a path, the whole 
colony instinctively follow in the same track, though 
from the immense population they are often com- 
pelled to march in parallel files from two to six deep. 
The procession is always headed by a single cater- 
pillar ; sometimes the leader is immediately followed 
by one or two in single file, and sometimes by two 
abreast, as represented in the cut. A similar pro- 







cedure is followed by a species of social caterpillars, 
which feed on the pine in Savoy and Languedoc ; 
and though their nests are not half the size of the 
preceding, they are more worthy of notice, from the 
strong and excellent quality of their silk, which 
Reaumur was of opinion might be advantageously 
manufactured. Their nests consist of more cham- 
bers than one, but are furnished with a m ain entrance, 
through which the colonists conduct their foraging 
processions. 





Nest and order of marching of the Proccssionary Caterpillars 
of the oak (Cnethocainua urocessionea'). 




 

Modern naturalists do not rank spiders among in- 
sects, because they have no antennae, and no division 
between the head and the shoulders ; they breathe 
by leaf-shaped gills, situated under the belly, instead 
of spiracles in the sides ; have a heart connected 
with these; have eight legs instead of six ; and 
eight fixed eyes. But as spiders are popularly con- 
sidered insects, it will sufficiently suit our purpose 
to introduce them here as such. 

The apparatus by which spiders construct their 
ingenious fabrics is much more complicated than 
that which we have described, as common to the 
various species of caterpillars. Caterpillars have 
only two reservoirs for the materials of their silk ; 
but spiders, according to the dissections of M. Trevi- 
ranus, have four principal vessels, two larger and 
two smaller, with a number of minute ones at their 
base. Several small tubes branch towards the reser- 
voirs, for carrying to them, no doubt, a supply of 
the secreted material. Swammerdam describes them 
as twisted into many coils of an agate colour*. We 
do not find them coiled but nearly straight, and of a 
deep yellow colour. From these when broken, threads 
can be drawn out like those spun by the spider. 

From these little flasks or bags of gum, situated 
near the anus, and not at the mouth as in cater- 
pillars, a tube originates and terminates in the exter- 



* Hill’s Swammerdam, part i. p. 23. 



 



nal spinnerets, which may be seen by the naked eye 
in the larger spiders, in the form of five little teats 
surrounded by a circle, as represented in the figure 
below. 




Garden Spider (Epeira diadema), suspended by a thread proceeding 

from its spinneret. 

We have seen that the silken thread of a cater- 
pillar is composed of two united within the tube of 
the spinneret, but the spider’s thread would appear 
from the first view of its five spinnerets, to be quin- 
tuple, and in some species which have six teats, 
so many times more. It is not safe, however, in our 
interpretations of nature to proceed upon conjecture 
however plausible, nor to take anything for granted 
which we have not actually seen; since our inferences 
in such cases are almost certain to be erroneous. 






If Aristotle, for example, had ever looked narrowly 
at a spider when spinning, he could not have fancied, 
as he does, that the materials which it uses are 
nothing but wool stripped from its body. On look- 
ing then, with a strong magnifying glass, at the teat- 
shaped spinnerets of a spider, we perceive them 
studded with regular rows of minute bristle-like 
points, about a thousand to each teat, making in all 
from five to six thousand. These are minute tubes 
which we may appropriately term spinnerules, as 
each is connected with the internal reservoirs, and 
emits a thread of inconceivable fineness. In the 
figure below, this wonderful apparatus is represented 
as it appears in the microscope. 



Spinnerets of a Spider magnified to show the Spinnerules. 




We do not recollect that naturalists have ventured 
to assign any cause for this very remarkable multi- 
plicity of the spinnerules of spiders, so different from 
the simple spinneret of caterpillars. To us it ap- 
pears to be an admirable provision for their mode of 
life. Caterpillars neither require such strong ma- 
> terials, nor that their thread should dry as quickly. 





It is well known in our manufactures, particularly in 
rope-spinning’, that in cords of equal thickness, those 
which are composed of many smaller ones united 
are greatly stronger than those which are spun at 
once. In the instance of the spider’s thread, this 
principle must hold still more strikingly, inasmuch 
as it is composed of fluid materials that require to 
be dried rapidly, and this drying must be greatly 
facilitated by exposing so many to the air separately 
before their union, which is effected at the distance 
of about a tenth of an inch from the spinnerets. In 
the following figure, each of the threads represented 
is reckoned to contain one hundred minute threads, 
the whole forming only one of the spider’s common 
threads. 




Leeuwenhoeck, in one of his extraordinary micro- 
scopical observations on a young spider not bigger 
than a grain of sand, upon enumerating the thread- 







lets in one of its threads, calculated that it would 
require four millions of them to be as thick as a hair 
of his beard. 

Another important advantage derived by the spider 
from the multiplicity of its threadlets is, that the thread 
affords a much more secure attachment to a wall, a 
branch of a tree, or any other object, than if it were 
simple ; for, upon pressing the spinneret against the 
object, as spiders always do when they fix a thread, 
the spinnerules are extended over an area of some 
diameter, from every hair’s breadth of which a strand, 
as rope-makers term it, is extended to compound the 
main cord. The following figure exhibits this inge- 
nious contrivance. 



Those who may be curious to examine this contri- 
vance will see it best when the line is attached to 
any black object; for the threads being white are, in 
other cases, not so easily perceived. 

Shooting of the Lines. 

It has long been considered a curious, though a 
difficult investigation, to determine in what manner 






Attached cud oj a Spidei's thread magnified. 


 



spiders, seeing 1 that they are destitute of wings, 
transport themselves from tree to tree, across brooks, 
and frequently through the air itself, without any ap- 
parent starting point. On looking into the authors 
who have treated upon this subject, it is surprising 
how little there is to be met with that is new, even in 
the most recent. Their conclusions, or rather their 
conjectural opinions, are, however, worthy of notice ; 
for, by unlearning error, we the more firmly esta- 
blish truth. 

1. One of the earliest notions upon this subject 
is that of Blancanus, the commentator on Aristotle, 
which is partly adopted by Redi, by Henricus 
Regius of Utrecht, by Swammerdam*, by Leh- 
mann the mineralogist, and by Kirby and Spencef. 
“ The spider’s thread,” says Swammerdam, “ is 
generally made up of two or more parts, and 
after descending by such a thread, it ascends by 
one only, and is thus enabled to waft itself from 
one height or tree to another, even across running 
waters; the thread it leaves loose behind it being 
driven about by the wind, and so fixed to some 
other body.” “ I placed,” says Kirby, “ the large 
garden spider ( Epeira diadema ) upon a stick 
about a foot long, set upright in a vessel containing 

water It let itself drop, not by a single thread, 

but by two, each distant from the other about the 
twelfth of an inch, guided, as usual, by one of its hind 
feet, and one apparently smaller than the other. 
When it had suffered itself to descend nearly to the 
surface of the water, it stopped short, and by some 
means, which I could not distinctly see, broke off, 
close to the spinners, the smallest thread, which still 
adhering by the other end to the top of the stick, 



* Swammerdam, part i. p. 2-1. 
+ Intr. i. vol. p. 415. 







floated in the air, and was so light as to be carried 
about by the slightest breath. On approaching a 
pencil to the loose end of this line, it did not adhere 
from mere contact. I, therefore, twisted it once or 
twice round the pencil, and then drew it tight. The 
spider, which had previously climbed to the top of 
the stick, immediately pulled at it with one of its feet, 
and finding it sufficiently tense, crept along it, 
strengthening it as it proceeded by another thread, 
and thus reached the pencil.” 

We have repeatedly witnessed this occurrence, 
both in the fields, and when spiders were placed for 
experiment, as Kirby has described ; but we very 
much doubt that the thread broken is ever intended 
as a bridge cable, or that it would have been so used 
in that instance, had it not been artificially fixed and 
accidentally found again by the spider. According 
to our observations, a spider never abandons, for an 
instant, the thread which she despatches in quest of 
an attachment, but uniformly keeps trying it with 
her feet, in order to ascertain its success. We are, 
therefore, persuaded, that when a thread is broken in 
the manner above described, it is because it has been 
spun too weak, and spiders may often be seen break- 
ing such threads in the process of netting their webs*'. 

The plan, besides, as explained by these agreeable 
writers, would more frequently prove abortive than 
successful, from the cut thread not being suf- 
ficiently long. They admit, indeed, that spiders’ 
lines are often found “ a yard or two long, fastened 

to twigs of grass not a foot in height Here, 

therefore, some other process must have been 
used +.” 

2. Our celebrated English naturalist, Dr. Lister, 
whose treatise upon our native spiders has been the 

f Kirby and Spence, vol. i. Intr. p. 416. 

2 G 3 



* J.R. 






basis of every subsequent work on the subject, main- 
tains, that “ some spiders shoot out their threads in 
the same manner that porcupines do their quills ; 
that whereas the quills of the latter are entirely se- 
parated from their bodies, when thus shot out, the 
threads of the former remain fixed to their anus, as 
the sun’s rays to its body A French periodical 
writer goes a little farther, and says, that spiders 
have the power of shooting out threads, and directing 
them at pleasure, towards a determined point, 
judging of the distance and position of the object 
by some sense of which we are ignorant f. Kirby 
also says, that he once observed a small garden 
spider ( Aranea reticulata), “standing midway on a 
long perpendicular fixed thread, and an appearance 
caught” his “ eye, of what seemed to be the emission 
of threads.” “I,” therefore, he adds, “moved my 
arm in the direction in which they apparently pro- 
ceeded, and, as I had suspected, a floating thread 
attached itself to my coat, along which the spider 
crept. As this was connected with the spinners of 
the spider, it could not have been formed” by 
breaking a “secondary thread.”]; Again, in speaking 
of the gossamer-spider, he says, it “ first extends its 
thigh, shank, and foot, into a right line, and then, 
elevating its abdomen till it becomes vertical, shoots 
its thread into the air, and flies oft' from its station§.” 
Another distinguished naturalist, Mr. White of 
Selborne, in speaking of the gossamer-spider, says, 
“ every day in fine weather in autumn do I see 
these spiders shooting out their webs, and mounting 
aloft : they will go off from the finger, if you will 
take them into your hand. Last summer, one 
alighted on my book as I was reading in the par- 

* Lister, Hist. Animalia Angliae, 4to. p. 7. 
f Phil. Mag. ii. p. 275. 

+ Vol. i.Intr. p. 417. § Ibid. ii. p.339. 







lour; and running to the top of the page, and 
shooting out a web , took its departure from thence. 
But what I most wondered at was, that it went off 
with considerable velocity in a place where no air 
was stirring ; and I am sure that I did not assist it 
with my breath 

Having so often witnessed the thread set afloat 
in the air by spiders, we can readily conceive the 
way in which those eminent naturalists were led 
to suppose it to be ejected by some animal force 
acting like a syringe ; but as the statement can be 
completely disproved by experiment, we shall only at 
present ask, in the words of Swammerdam — “ how it 
can be possible that a thread so fine and slender 
should be shot out with force enough to divide and 
pass through the air ? — is it not rather probable that 
the air would stop its progress, and so entangle it 
and fit it to perplex the spider’s operations ?’*t The 
opinion, indeed, is equally improbable with another, 
suggested by Dr. Lister, that the spider can retract 
her thread within the abdomen, after it has been 
emitted De Geer§ very justly joins Swammer- 
dam in rejecting both of these fancies, which, in our 
own earlier observations upon spiders, certainly 
struck us as plausible and true. There can be no 
doubt, indeed, that the animal has a voluntary power 
of permitting the material to escape, or stopping it 
at pleasure, but this power is not projectile. 

3. “ There are many people/’ says the Abbe de la 
Pluche, “who believe that the spider flies when they see 
her pass from branch to branch, and even from one 
high tree to another ; but she transports herself in this 
manner : she places herself upon the end of a branch, 

¦ f Nat. Hist, of Selborne, vol. i. p. 327. 
f Book of Nature, part i. p. 25. 

f Hist. Anim. Angliae, 4to. 

§ Memoires, vol. vii. p. 189. 







or some projecting body, and there fastens her thread ; 
after which, with her two hind feet, she squeezes her 
dugs ( spinnerets ), and presses out one or more, 
threads of two or three ells in length, which she 
leaves to float in the air till it be fixed to some par- 
ticular place*.” Without pretending to have ob- 
served this, Swammerdam says, “ lean easily compre- 
hend how spiders, without giving themselves any 
motion, may, by only compressing their anus, spin 
out a thread, which being driven by the wind, may 
serve to waft them from one place to another f.” 
Others, proceeding upon a similar notion, give a 
rather different account of the matter. “ The spider,” 
says Bingley, “ fixes one end of a thread to the place 
where she stands, and then with her hind paws 
draws out several other threads from the nipples, 
which, being lengthened out and driven by the wind 
to some neighbouring tree or other object, are by 
their natural clamminess fixed to itj.” 

Observation gives some plausibility to the latter 
opinion, as the spider always actively uses her legs, 
though not to draw out the thread, but to ascertain 
whether it has caught upon any object. The notion 
of her pressing the spinneret with her feet must be a 
mere fancy ; at least it is not countenanced by any 
thing which we have observed. 

4. An opinion much more recondite is mentioned, if 
it was not started by M. D’lsjonval, that the floating 
of the spider’s thread is electrical. “ Frogs, cats, 
and other animals,” he says, “ are affected by natural 
electricity, and feel the change of weather; but no 
other animal more than myself and my spiders.” 
During wet and windy weather he accordingly found 
that they spun very short lines, “ but when a spider 

* Spectacle de la Nature, vol. i. 

t Boole of Nature, part i. p. 25. 

;J; Animal Biography, vol. iii. p. 475, 3rd edition. 






spins a long’ thread, there is a certainty of fine weather 
for at least ten or twelve days afterwards*.” A 
periodical writer, who signs himself Carolan t, 
fancies that in darting out her thread the spider 
emits a stream of air, or some subtile electric fluid, 
by which she guides it as if by magic. 

A living writer (Mr. John Murray), whose learn- 
ing and skill in conducting experiments give no 
little weight to his opinions, has carried these views 
considerably farther. “ The aeronautic spider,” he 
says, “ can propel its threads both horizontally 
and vertically, and at all relative angles, in mo- 
tionless air, and in an atmosphere agitated by 
winds ; nay more, the aerial traveller can even dart 
its thread, to use a nautical phrase, in the ‘ wind’s 
eye.’ My opinion and observations are based on 
many hundred experiments The entire phe- 

nomena are electrical. When a thread is propelled 
in the vertical plane, it remains perpendicular to the 
horizontal plane, always upright, and when others 
are projected at angles more or less inclined, their 
direction is invariably preserved ; the threads never 
intermingle, and when a pencil of threads is propelled, 
it ever presents the appearance of a divergent brush. 
These are electrical phenomena, and cannot be ex- 
plained but on electrical principles.” 

“ In clear, fine weather, the air is invariably 
positive ; and it is precisely in such weather that the 
aeronautic spider makes its ascent most easily and 
rapidly, whether it be in summer or in winter.” 
“ When the air is weakly positive, the ascent of the 
spider will be difficult, and its altitude extremely 
limited, and the threads propelled will be but little 
elevated above the horizontal plane. When negative 
electricity prevails, as in cloudy weather, or on the 

* Brez, Flore des Insectophiles. Notes, Supp. p. 134. 
f Thomson’s Ann. of Philosophy, vol. iii, p. 306. 







approach of rain, and the index of De Saussure’s 
hygrometer rapidly advancing towards humidity, the 
spider is unable to ascend*.” 

Mr. Murray had previously told us, that “ when 
a stick of excited sealing-wax is brought near the 
thread of suspension, it is evidently repelled ; con- 
sequently, the electricity of the thread is of a nega- 
tive character,” while “ an excited glass tube brought 
near, seemed to attract the thread, and with it, 
the aeronautic spider t.” His friend, Mr. Bowman, 
further describes the aerial spider as “ shooting out 
four or five, often six or eight, extremely fine webs 
several yards long, which waved in the breeze, 
diverging from each other like a pencil of rays.” 
One of them “ had two distinct and widely diverging 
fasciculi of webs,” and “ a line uniting them would 
have been at right angles to the direction of the 
breeze J.” 

Such is the chief evidence in support of the elec- 
trical theory; but though we have tried these ex- 
periments, we have not succeeded in verifying any 
one of them. The following statements of Mr. 
Blackwall come nearer our own observations. 

5. “ Having procured a small branched twig,” says 
Mr. Blackwall, “ I fixed it upright in an earthen 
vessel containing water, its base being immersed in 
the liquid, and upon it I placed several of the spiders 
which produce gossamer. Whenever the insects 
thus circumstanced were exposed to a current of air, 
either naturally or artificially produced, they directly 
turned the thorax towards the quarter whence it 
came, even when it was so slight as scarcely to be 
perceptible, and elevating the abdomen, they emitted 
from their spinners a small portion of glutinous 

* Loudon’s Mag. of Nat. Hist., vol. i. p. 322. 
f Experim. Researches in Nat. Hist., p. 136. 

| Mag. Nat. Hist., vol. i. p. 324. 







matter, which was instantly carried out in a line, 
consisting of four finer ones, with a velocity equal, 
or nearly so, to that with which the air moved, as 
was apparent from observations made on the motion 
of detached lines similarly exposed. The spiders, 
in the next place, carefully ascertained whether their 
lines had become firmly attached to any object or 
not, by pulling at them with the first pair of legs ; 
and if the result was satisfactory, after tightening 
them sufficiently, they made them pass to the twig ; 
then discharging from their spinners, which they 
applied to the spot where they stood, a little more of 
their liquid gum, and committing themselves to these 
bridges of their own constructing, they passed over 
them in safety, drawing a second line after them, as 
a security in case the first gave way, and so effected 
their escape. 

“ Such was invariably the result when spiders 
were placed where the air was liable to be sensibly 
agitated : I resolved, therefore, to put a bell glass 
over them ; and in this situation they remained 
seventeen days, evidently unable to produce a single 
line by which they could quit the branch they occupied, 
without encountering the water at its base ; though, 
on the removal of the glass, they regained their 
liberty with as much celerity as in the instances 
already recorded. 

“ This experiment, which, from want of due pre- 
caution has misled so many distinguished naturalists, 
I have tried with several geometric spiders, and 
always with the same success*.” 

Mr. Blackwall, from subsequent experiments, says 
he is “ confident in affirming, that in motionless air, 
spiders have not the power of darting their threads 
even through the space of half an inchf.” The fol- 
* Linn. Trans., vol. xv. p. 456. 







lowing details are given in confirmation of this 
opinion. Mr. Blackwall observed, the 1st Oct., 18:26, 
a little before noon, with the sun shining brightly, 
no wind stirring, and the thermometer in the shade 
ranging from 55 °.5 to 64°, a profusion of shining 
lines crossing each other at every angle, forming a con- 
fused net-work, covering the fields and hedges, and 
thickly coating his feet and ankles, as he walked across 
a pasture. He was more struck with the phenomenon, 
because on the previous day a strong gale of wind had 
blown from the south, and as gossamer is only seen 
in calm weather, it must have been all produced 
within a very short time. 

“ What more particularly arrested my attention,’ , 
says Mr. Blackwall, “ was the ascent of an amazing 
quantity of webs, of an irregular, complicated struc- 
ture, resembling ravelled silk of the finest quality, 
and clearest white ; they were of various shapes and 
dimensions, some of the largest measuring upwards 
of a yard in length, and several inches in breadth in 
the widest part ; while others were almost as broad 
as long, presenting an area of a few square inches 
only. 

“ These webs, it was quickly perceived, were not 
formed in the air, as is generally believed, but at the 
earth’s surface. The lines of which they were com- 
posed, being brought into contact by the mechanical 
action of gentle airs, adhered together, till, by con- 
tinual additions, thev were accumulated into flakes or 
masses of considerable magnitude, on which the 
ascending current, occasioned by the rarefaction of 
the air contiguous to the heated ground, acted with 
so much force as to separate them from the objects 
to which they were attached, raising them in the 
atmosphere to a perpendicular height of at least 
several hundred feet. I collected a number of these 
webs about mid-day, as they rose ; and again in the 






afternoon, when the upward current had ceased, and 
they were falling’: but scarcely one in twenty con- 
tained a spider ; though, on minute inspection, I 
found small winged insects, chiefly aphides, entangled 
in most of them. 

“ From contemplating this unusual display of 
gossamer, my thoughts were naturally directed to 
the animals which produced it, and the countless 
myriads in which they swarmed almost created as 
much surprise as the singular occupation that en- 
grossed them. Apparently actuated by the same 
impulse, all were intent upon traversing the regions 
of air ; accordingly, after gaining the summits of 
various objects, as blades of grass, stubble, rails, 
gates, &c., by the slow and laborious process of 
climbing, they raised themselves still higher by 
straightening their limbs ; and elevating the abdo- 
men, by bringing it from the usual horizontal posi- 
tion, into one almost perpendicular, they emitted from 
their spinning apparatus a small quantity of the 
glutinous secretion with which they construct their 
webs. This viscous substance being drawn out by 
the ascending current of rarefied air into fine lines 
several feet in length, was carried upward, until the 
spiders, feeling themselves acted upon with sufficient 
force in that direction, quitted their hold of the 
objects on which they stood, and commenced their 
journey by mounting aloft. 

“ YVhenever the lines became inadequate to the 
purpose for which they were intended, by adhering 
to any fixed body, they were immediately detached 
from the spinners and so converted into terrestrial 
gossamer, by means of the last pair of legs, and the 
proceedings just described were repeated ; which 
plainly proves that these operations result from a 
strong desire felt by the insects to effect ail ascent*.” 
* Linn, Trans., vol. xv. p. 453. 





6. Without going into the particulars of what 
agrees or disagrees in the above experiments with our 
own observations, we shall give a brief account of 
what we have actually seen in our researches *. So 
far as we have determined, then, all the various 
species of spiders, how different soever the form of 
their webs may be, proceed in the circumstance of 
shooting their lines precisely alike ; but those which 
we have found the most manageable in experiment- 
ing, are the small gossamer spider (Aranea obtectrix, 
Bechstein), known by its shining blackish-brown 
body and reddish-brown semi-transparent legs ; but 
particularly the long-bodied spider ( Tetragnatha 
extensa, Latr.), which varies in colour from green 
to brownish or grey — but has always a black line 
along the belly, with a silvery white or yellowish one 
on each side. The latter is chiefly recommended by 
being a very industrious and persevering spinner, 
while its movements are easily seen, from the long 
cylindrical form of its body and the length of its 
legs. 

We placed the above two species with five or six 
others, including the garden, the domestic, and the 
labyrinthic spiders, in empty wine-glasses, set in tea- 
saucers filled with water to prevent their escape. 
When they discovered, by repeated descents from 
the brims of the glasses, that they were thus sur- 
rounded by a wet ditch, they all set themselves to the 
task of throwing their silken bridges across. For 
this purpose they first endeavoured to ascertain in 
what direction the wind blew, or rather (as the ex- 
periment was made in our study) which way any 
current of air set, — by elevating their arms as we 
have seen sailors do in a dead calm. But, as it may 
prove more interesting to keep to one individual, we 



* J.R. 







shall first watch the proceedings of the gossamer 
spider. 

Finding no current of air on any quarter of the brim 
of the glass, it seemed to give up all hopes of con- 
structing its bridge of escape, and placed itself in the 
attitude of repose ; but no sooner did we produce a 
stream of air, by blowing gently towards its position, 
than, fixing a thread to the glass, and laying hold 
of it with one of its feet, by way of security, it placed 
its body in a vertical position, with its spinnerets ex- 
tended outwards ; and immediately we had the pleasure 
of seeing a thread streaming out from them several 
feet in length, on which the little aeronaut sprung up 
into the air. We were convinced, from what we thus 
observed, that it was the double or bend of the thread 
which was blown into the air ; and we assigned as a 
reason for her previously attaching and drawing out 
a thread from the glass, the wish to give the wind 
a point d'appui — something upon which it might 
have a purchase , as a mechanic would say of a lever. 
The bend of the thread, then, on this view of the 
matter, would be carried out by the wind, — would 
form the point of impulsion, — and, of course, the 
escape bridge would be an ordinary line doubled. 

Such was our conclusion, which was strongly 
corroborated by what we subsequently found said 
by M. Latreille — than whom no higher authority 
could be given. “ When the animal,” says he, 
“ desires to cross a brook, she fixes to a tree or 
some other object, one of the ends of her first threads, 
in order that the wind or a current of air may carry 
the other end beyond the obstacle * and as one end 
is always attached to the spinnerets, he must mean 
that the double of the thread flies off. 

* “ L’un des bouts de ces premiers fils, afin que Ie vent 

ou un courant d’air pousse l’autre extremite de Tun d’eux au 
de la de l’obstacle.” — Diet. Classique d’Hist. Nat., vol. i. p. 510. 









In order to ascertain the fact, and put an end to all 
doubts, vve watched, with great care and minute- 
ness, the proceedings of the long-bodied spider above 
mentioned, by producing a stream of air in the 
same manner, as it perambulated the brim of the 
glass. It immediately, as the other had done, at- 
tached a thread and raised its body perpendicularly, 
like a tumbler standing on his hands with his head 
downwards ; but we looked in vain for this thread 
bending, as we had at first supposed, and going oft* 
double. Instead of this it remained tight, while an- 
other thread, or what appeared to be so, streamed off* 
from the spinners, sometimes in a line, and sometimes 
at a considerable angle, with the first, according to 
the current of the air, — the first thread, extended from 
the glass to the spinnerets, remaining all the while 
tight drawn in a right line. It further appeared to 
us, that the first thread proceeded from the pair of 
spinnerets nearest the head, while the floating thread 
came from the outer pair, — though it is possible in 
such minute objects we may have been deceived. That 
the first was continuous with the second, without 
any perceptible joining, we ascertained in numerous 
instances, by catching the floating line and pulling it 
tight, in which case the spider glides along without 
attaching another line to the glass; but if she have to 
coil up the floating line to tighten it, as usually hap- 
pens, she gathers it into a packet and glues the two 
ends tight together. Her body, while the floating 
line streamed out, remained quite motionless, but we 
distinctly saw the spinnerets not only projected, as is 
always done when a spider spins, but moved in the 
same way as on infant moves it lips when sucking. 
We cannot doubt, therefore, that this motion is 
intended to emit (if eject or project be deemed too 
strong words) the liquid material of the thread ; at 
the same time, we are quite certain that it cannot 







throw out a single inch of thread without the aid of 
a current of air. A long-bodied spider will thus 
throw out in succession as many threads as we please, 
by simply blowing towards it ; but not one where 
there is no current, as under a bell-glass, where it 
may be kept till it die, without being able to construct 
a bridge over water of an inch long. We never 
observed more than one floating thread produced at 
the same time ; though other observers mention 
several. 

The probable commencement, we think, of the 
floating line, is by the emission of little globules of 
the glutinous material to the points of the spinnerules 
— perhaps it may be dropped from them, if not 
ejected, and the globules being carried off by the 
current of air, drawn out into a thread. But we give 
this as only a conjecture, for we could not bring a 
glass of sufficient power to bear upon the spinnerules 
at the commencement of the floating line. 

In subsequent experiments we found, that it was 
not indispensable for the spider to rest upon a solid 
body when producing a line, as she can do so while 
she is suspended in the air by another line. When 
the current of air also is strong, she will sometimes 
commit herself to it by swinging from the end of the 
line. We have even remarked this when there was 
scarcely a breath of air. 

We tried another experiment. We pressed pretty 
firmly upon the base of the spinnerets, so as not to 
injure the spider, blowing obliquely over them ; but 
no floating line appeared. We then touched them 
with a pencil and drew out several lines an inch or 
two in length, upon which we blew in order to extend 
them, but in this also we were unsuccessful, as they 
did not lengthen more than a quarter of an inch. 
We next traced out the reservoirs of a garden- 
spider ( Epeira diadtma ), and immediately taking a 





drop of the matter from one of them on the point of 
a fine needle, we directed upon it a strong current of 
air, and succeeded in blowing out a thick yellow line 
as we might have done with gum-water, of about an 
inch and a half long. 

When we observed our long-bodied spider eager 
to throw a line by raising up its body, we brought 
within three inches of its spinnerets an excited stick 
of sealing-wax, of which it took no notice, nor did 
any thread extend to it, not even when brought almost 
to touch the spinnerets. We had the same want of 
success with an excited glass rod; and indeed we had 
not anticipated any other result, as we have never 
observed that these either attract or repel the floating 
threads, as Mr. Murray has seen them do ; nor have 
we ever seen the end of a floating thread separated 
into its component threadlets and diverging like a 
brush, as he and Mr. Bowman describe. 

Nests, Webs, and Nets of Spiders. 

The neatest, though the smallest spider’s nest which 
we have seen, was constructed in the chink of a gar- 
den post, which we had cut out the previous summer 
in getting at the cells of a carpenter-bee. The archi- 
tect was one of the larger hunting- spiders erroneously 
said by some naturalists to be incapable of spinning. 
The nest in question was about two inches high, 
composed of a very close satin-like texture. There 
were two parallel chambers placed perpendicularly, 
in which position also the inhabitant reposed there 
during the day, going, as we presume, only abroad 
to prey during the night. But the most remark- 
able circumstance was, that the openings (two 
above and two below) were so elastic, that they shut 
almost as closely as the boat cocoon of the Tortrix 
chlorana (see page 322). We observed this spider 
for several months, but at last it disappeared, and w 







took the nest out, under the notion that it might con- 
tain eggs ; but we found none, and therefore conclude 
that it was only used as a day retreat *. The account 
which Evelyn has given of these hunting-spiders is 
so interesting, that we must transcribe it. 

“ Of all sorts of insects,” says he, “ there is none 
has afforded me more divertisement than the vena- 
tores (hunters), which are a sort of lupi (wolves) that 
have their dens in rugged walls and crevices of our 
houses ; a small brown and delicately-spotted kind 
of spiders, whose hinder legs are longer than the 
rest. Such I did frequently observe at Rome, which, 
espying a fly at three or four yards distance, upon 
the balcony where I stood, would not make directly 
to her, but crawl under the rail, till being arrived to 
the antipodes, it would steal up, seldom missing its 
aim ; but if it chanced to want anything of being 
perfectly opposite, would, at first peep, immediately 
slide down again, — till, taking better notice, it would 
come the next time exactly upon the fly’s back : but 
if this happened not to be within a competent leap, 
then would this insect move so softly, as the very 
shadow of the gnomon seemed not to be more im- 
perceptible, unless the fly moved ; and then would 
the spider move also in the same proportion, keeping 
that just time with her motion, as if the same soul 
had animated both these little bodies ; and whether 
it were forwards, backwards, or to either side, with- 
out at all turning her body, like a well managed horse : 
but if the capricious fly took wing and pitched upon 
another place behind our huntress, then would the 
spider whirl its body so nimbly about, as nothing 
could be imagined more swift: by which means she 
always kept the head towards her prey, though, to 
appearance, as immoveable as if it had been a nail 



* J. R. 







driven into the wood, till by that indiscernible pro- 
gress (being arrived within the sphere of her reach) 
she made a fatal leap, swift as lightning, upon the 
fly, catching him in the pole, where she never quitted 
hold till her belly was full, and then carried the re- 
mainder home.” 

One feels a little sceptical, however, when he adds, 
“ I have beheld them instructing their young ones 
how to hunt, which they would sometimes discipline 
for not well observing ; but when any of the old ones 
did (as sometimes) miss a leap, they would run out 
of the field and hide themselves in their crannies, as 
ashamed, and haply not to be seen abroad for four or 
five hours after ; for so long have I watched the 
Qature of this strange insect, the contemplation of 
whose so wonderful sagacity and address has 
amazed me ; nor do I find in any chase whatsoever 
more cunning and stratagem observed. I have found 
some of these spiders in my garden, when the wea- 
ther, towards spring, is very hot, but they are nothing 
so eager in hunting as in Italy ¦*.” 

We have only to add to this lively narrative, that 
the hunting spider, when he leaps, takes good care 
to provide against accidental falls by always swing- 
ing himself from a good strong cable of silk, as 
Swammerdam correctly states f, and which anybody 
may verify, as one of the small hunters ( Salticus sce- 
nicus ), known by having its back striped with black 
and white like a zebra, is very common in Britain. 

As a contrast to the little elastic satin nest of the 
hunter, we may mention the largest with which we 
are acquainted, — that of the labyrinthic spider ( Age - 
lena labyrinthica , Walckenaer). Our readers must 
often have seen this nest spread out like a broad 
sheet in hedges, furze, and other low bushes, and 

* Evelyn’s Travels in Italy. 

| Book of Nature, part i. page 24. 







sometimes on the ground. The middle of this sheet, 
which is of a close texture, is swung like a sailor’s 
hammock, by silken ropes extended all around to the 
higher branches ; but the whole curves upwards and 
backwards, sloping down to a long funnel-shaped 
gallery which is nearly horizontal at the entrance, 
but soon winds obliquely till it becomes quite per- 
pendicular. This curved gallery is about a quarter 
of an inch in diameter, is much more closely woven 
than the sheet part of the web, and sometimes de- 
scends into a hole in the ground, though oftener 
into a group of crowded twigs, or a tuft of grass. 
Here the spider dwells secure, frequently resting 
with her leo;s extended from the entrance of the gal- 
lery, ready to spring out upon whatever insect may 
fall into her sheet net. She herself can only be 
caught by getting behind her and forcing her out into 
the web ; but though we have often endeavoured to 
make her construct a nest under our eye, we have 
been as unsuccessful as in similar experiments with 
the common house spider (Aranea domestica*). 

The house spider’s proceedings were long ago de- 
scribed by Homberg, and the account has been copied, 
as usual, by almost every subsequent writer. Goldsmith 
has, indeed, given some strange mis-statements from 
his own observations, and Bingley has added the 
original remark, that, after fixing its first thread, 
creeping along the wall and joining it as it proceeds, 
it “ darts itself to the opposite side , where the other 
end is to be fastened +” ! Homberg’s spider took 
the more circuitous route of travelling to the opposite 
wall, carrying in one of the claws the end of the 
thread previously fixed, lest it should stick in the 
wrong place. This we believe to be the correct state- 
ment, for as the web is always horizontal, it would 



* J. R. 



f Animal Biography, iii, 470—1. 







seldom answer to commit a floating thread to the 
wind, as is done by other species. Homberg’s spider, 
after stretching as many lines by way of warp , as it 
deemed sufficient between the two walls of the corner 
which it had chosen, proceeded to cross this in the 
way our weavers do in adding the woof, with this 
difference, that the spider’s threads were only laid on 
and not interlaced*. The domestic spiders, however, 
in these modem days, must have forgot this mode of 
weaving, for none of their webs will be found to be 
thus regularly constructed. 

The geometric, or net-working spiders ( Tendeuses , 
Latr.), are as well known in most districts as any of 
the preceding ; almost every bush and tree in the 
gardens and hedge rows having one or more of their 
nets stretched out in a vertical position between ad- 
jacent branches. The common garden spider ( Epeira 
diadema ), and the long-bodied spider ( Tetragnatha 
eoctensa ), are the best known of this order. 

The chief care of a spider of this sort is, to form 
a cable of sufficient strength to bear the net she 
means to hang upon it ; and, after throwing out a 
floating line as above described, when it catches pro- 
perly she doubles and redoubles it with additional 
threads. On trying its strength she is not con- 
tented with the test of pulling it with her legs, but 
drops herself down several feet from various points 
of it, as we have often seen, swinging and bobbing 
with the whole weight of her body. She proceeds 
in a similar manner with the rest of the frame-work 
of her wheel-shaped net; and it may be remarked 
that some of the ends of these lines are not simple, 
but in form of a Y, giving her the additional security 
of two attachments instead of one. 

In constructing the body of the net, the most re- 



* Mem. de l’Acad. des Sciences pour 1707, p.339. 








Geometric Net of Epeira diadema. 



markable circumstance is her using her limbs as a 
measure, to regulate the distances of her radii or 
wheel-spokes, and the circular meshes interweaved 
into them. These are consequently always propor- 
tional to the size of the spider. She often takes up 
her station in the centre, but not always, though 
it is so said by inaccurate writers ; for she as fre- 
quently lurks in a little chamber constructed under 
a leaf or other shelter at the corner of her web, 
ready to dart down upon whatever prey may be en- 
tangled in her net. The centre of the net is said 
also to be composed of more viscid materials than its 



 



suspensory lines, — a circumstance alleged to be 
proved by the former appearing under the micro- 
scope studded with globules of gum *. We have not 
been able to verify this distinction, having seen the 
suspensory lines as often studded in this manner as 
those in the centre +. 

Mason-Spiders. 

A no less wonderful structure is composed by a 
sort of spiders, natives of the tropics and the South 
of Europe, which have been justly called mason- 
spiders by M. Latreille. One of these ( Mygale 
nidulans, Walckn.) found in the West Indies, “ digs 
a hole in the earth obliquely downwards, about three 
inches in length, and one in diameter. This cavity 
she lines with a tough thick web, which, when taken 
out, resembles a leathern purse ; but what is most 
curious, this house has a door with hinges, like the 
operculum of some sea-shells, and herself and family, 
who tenant this nest, open and shut the door when- 
ever they pass and repass. This history was told 
me,” says Darwin, “ and the nest, with its door, 
shewn me by the late Dr. Butt, of Bath, who was 
some years physician in Jamaica J.” 

The nest of a mason-spider, similar to this, has 
been obligingly put into our hands by Mr. Riddle, 
of Blackheath. It came from the West Indies, 
and is probably that of Latreille’s clay-kneader 
( Mygale cr aliens), and one of the smallest of the 
genus. It is composed of very hard argillaceous 
clay, deeply tinged with brown oxide of iron. It is 
in form of a tube, about one inch in diameter, between 
six and seven inches long, and slightly bent towards 
the lower extremity — appearing to have been mined 
into the clay rather than built. The interior of the 

* Kirby and Spence, Intr. i. 419. f J. R. 

$ Darwin’s Zoonomia, i. 253, 8vo, ed. 






tube is lilted with an uniform tapestry of silken web, 
of an orange-white colour, with a texture interme- 
diate between Indian paper and very fine glove-leather. 
But the most wonderful part of this nest is its en- 
trance, which we look upon as the perfection of insect 
architecture. A circular door, about the size of a 
crown piece, slightly concave on the outside and 
convex within, is formed of more than a dozen layers 
of the same web which lines the interior, closely laid 
upon one another, and shaped so that the inner 
layers are the broadest, the outer being gradually less 
in diameter, except towards the hinge, which is about 
an inch long ; and in consequence of all the layers 
being united there, and prolonged into the tube, it 
becomes the thickest and strongest part of the struc- 
ture. The elasticity of the materials, also, gives to 
this hinge the remarkable peculiarity of acting like a 
spring, and shutting the door of the nest spontane- 
ously. It is, besides, made to fit so accurately to the 
aperture, which is composed of similar concentric 
layers of web, that it is almost impossible to distin- 
guish the joining by the most careful inspection. To 
gratify curiosity, the door has been opened and shut 
hundreds of times, without in the least destroying 
the power of the spring. When the door is shut, it 
resembles some of the lichens ( Lecidea ), or the 
leathery fungi, such as Polyporus versicolor , (Mi- 
cheli,) or, nearer still, the upper valve of a young 
oyster shell. The whole nest being of a blackish- 
brown colour, it must be very difficult to discover *. 

Another mason-spider {My gale ccementaria, Latr.) 
found in the South of France, usually selects for her 
nest a place bare of grass, sloping in such a mariner as 
to carry off the water, and of a firm soil, without rocks 
or small stones. She digs a gallery a foot or two 

2 I 



* J. R. 





in depth, and of a diameter (equal throughout) suf- 
ficient to admit of her easily passing. She lines this 
with a tapestry of silk, glued to the walls. The door, 
which is circular, is constructed of many layers of 
earth kneaded, and bound together with silk. Ex- 
ternally, it is flat and rough, corresponding to the 
earth around the entrance, for the purpose, no doubt, 
of concealment : on the inside it is convex, and ta- 
pestried thickly with a web of fine silk. The threads 
of this door-tapestry are prolonged, and strongly at- 
tached to the upper side of the entrance, forming an 
excellent hinge, which, when pushed open by the 
spider, shuts again by its own weight, without the 




A T est of the Mason-Spider. 

A. The nest shut. B. The nest open, C. The spider, mygale ccementaria, 
J). The eyes magnified. E, F. Parts of the foot and claw magnified, 








aid of spring- hinges. When the spider is at home, 
and her door forcibly opened by an intruder, she 
pulls it strongly inwards, and even when half-opened 
often snatches it out of the hand ; but when she is 
foiled in this, she retreats to the bottom of her den, 
as her last resource*. 

Rossi ascertained that the female of an allied species 
(My gale sauvagesii, Latr.), found in Corsica, lived 
in one of these nests with a numerous posterity. He 
destroyed one of these doors to observe whether a 
new one would be made, which it was : but it was 
fixed immoveably, without a hinge ; the spider, no 
doubt, fortifying herself in this manner till she 
thought she might re-open it without danger t. 

“ The Rev. Revett Shepherd has often noticed 
in the fen ditches of Norfolk, a very large spider 
(the species not yet determined) which actually 
forms a raft for the purpose of obtaining its prey 
with more facility. Keeping its station upon a ball 
of weeds about three inches in diameter, probably 
held together by slight silken cords, it is wafted 
along the surface of the water upon this floating 
island, which it quits the moment it sees a drowning 
insect. The booty thus seized it devours at leisure 
upon its raft, under which it retires when alarmed by 
any danger 

Among our native spiders there are several be- 
side this one, which, not contented with a web like 
the rest of their congeners, take advantage of other 
materials to construct cells where, “ hush’d in grim 
repose,’’ they “ expect their insect prey.” The 
most simple of those spider-cells is constructed 

* Mem. Soc. d’Hist. Nat. de Paris, An. vii. 

f Ibid. p. 125, and Latreille, Hist. Nat. Gener. viii. p. 163.] 

\ Kirby and Spence, Intr. i. 425. 




by a longish-bodied spider ( Aranea holosericea , 
Linn.), which is a little larger than the common 
hunting spider. It rolls up a leaf of the lilac or 
poplar, precisely in the same manner as is done 
by the leaf-rolling caterpillars, upon whose cells it 
sometimes seizes to save itself trouble, having first 
expelled, or perhaps devoured, the rightful owner. 
The spider, however, is not satisfied with the tapes- 
try of the caterpillar, and always weaves a fresh set 
of her own, much more close and substantial. 

Another spider common in woods and copses 
( Epeira quadrata ?) weaves together a great number 
of leaves to form a dwelling for herself, and in front 
of it she spreads her toils for entrapping the unwary 
insects which stray thither. These, as soon as caught, 
are dragged into her den, and stored up for a time 
of scarcity. Here also her eggs are deposited and 
hatched in safety. When the cold weather approaches, 
and the leaves of her edifice wither, she abandons it 
for the more secure shelter of a hollow tree, where 
she soon dies ; but the continuation of the species 
depends upon eggs, deposited in the nest before win- 
ter, and remaining to be hatched with the warmth 
of the ensuing summer. 

The spider’s den of united leaves, however, which 
has just been described, is not always useless when 
withered and deserted ; for the dormouse, or the 
harvest mouse (Mus mesorius ), we are not certain 
which, usually selects it as a ready-made roof for its 
nest of dried grass. That those old spiders’ dens are 
not accidentally chosen by the mouse, appears from 
the fact, that out of about a dozen mouse-nests of 
this sort found during winter in a copse between 
Lewisham and Bromley, Kent, every second or third 
one was furnished with such a roof*. 



* J. R. 



 



Diving Water-Spider. 

That spiders may be able to breathe under water, 
we can well understand from their breathing like 
amphibious reptiles by means of gills ; but there is an 
aquatic spider ( Argyroneta aquatica , Walckenaer) 
which is not contented, as a frog would be, with the air 
furnished by the water, but actually carries down a 
supply of air from the atmosphere to her subaqueous 
nest. This spider does not like stagnant water, but 
prefers slow-running streams and ditches, where she 
may often be seen, in the vicinity of London and else- 
where, living in her diving-bell, which shines through 
the water like a little globe of silver : her singular 
economy was first, we believe, described by Clerck*, 
L. M. de Lignac t, and De Geer. 

“ The shining appearance,” says Clerck, “ pro- 
ceeds either from an inflated globule surrounding the 
abdomen, or from the space between the body and the 
water. The spider when wishing to inhale the air, 
rises to the surface with its body still submersed, and 
only the part containing the spinneret rising just to 
the surface, when it briskly opens and moves its four 
teats. A deep cone of hair keeps the water from 
approaching or wetting the abdomen. It comes up 
for air about four times an hour or oftener, though 
I have good reason to suppose it can continue with- 
out it for several days together. 

“ I found in the middle of May one male and ten 
females, which I put into a glass filled with water, 
where they lived together very quietly for eight days. 

I put some duck weed ( Lemna ) into the glass to 
afford them shelter, and the females began to stretch 
diagonal threads in a confused manner from it to the 

* Aratiei Suecici, Stockholm, 1757. 
t Mem. des Araign. Aquat. 12mo. Paris, 1799. 

2 i 3 







sides of the glass about half way down. Each of the 
females afterwards fixed a close bag to the edge of 
the glass, from which the water was expelled by the 
air from the spinneret, and thus a cell was formed 
capable of containing the whole animal. Here 
they remained quietly, with their abdomens in their 
cells, and their bodies still plunged in the water; and 
in a short time brimstone-coloured bags of eggs ap- 
peared in each cell, filling it about a fourth part. On 
the 7th of July several young ones swam out from 
one of the bags: — all this time the old ones had no- 
thing to eat, and yet they never attacked one another 
as other spiders would have been apt to do*.” 

“ These spiders,” says De Geer, “ spin in the 
water a cell of strong, closely woven, white silk in 
the form of half the shell of a pigeon’s egg, or like a 
diving-bell. This is sometimes left partly above 
water, but at others is entirely submersed, and is 
always attached to the objects near it by a great num- 
ber of irregular threads. It is closed all round, but 
has a large opening below, which, however, I found 
closed on the 1 5th of December, and the spider living 
quietly within, with her head downwards. I made a 
rent in this cell and expelled the air, upon which the 
spider came out; yet though she appeared to have 
been laid up for three months in her winter quar- 
ters, she greedily seized upon an insect and sucked 
it. I also found that the male as well as the female 
constructs a similar subaqueous cell, and during 
summer no less than in winter f.” 

Cleanliness of Spiders. 

When we look at the viscid material with which 
spiders construct their lines and webs, and at the 



515 Clerck, Aranei Suecici, Cap. viii. 
t De Geer,Mern. des Insectes, vii. 312. 







rough, hairy covering (with a few exceptions) of 
their bodies, we might conclude that they would 
be always stuck over with fragments of the minute 
fibres which they produce. This, indeed, must often 
happen, did they not take careful precautions to avoid 
it ; for we have observed that they seldom, if ever, leave 
a thread to float at random, except when they wish to 
form a bridge. When a spider drops along a line, 
for instance, in order to ascertain the strength of her 
web, or the nature of the place below her, she inva- 
riably, when she re-ascends, coils it up into a little ball, 
and throws it away. Her claws are admirably 
adapted for this purpose, as well as for walking along 
the lines, as may be readily seen by a magnifying 
glass. 




Triple-clawed foot of a Spider, magnified. 



There are three fclaws, one of which acts as a 
thumb, the others being toothed like a comb, for 
nrlidinir alonff the lines. This structure, however, 
unfits it to walk, as flies can do, upon any upright 
polished surface like glass ; although the contrary * 
is erroneously asserted by the Abbe de la Pluche. 
Before she can do so, she is obliged to construct a 
ladder of ropes, as Mr. Blackwall remarks t, by ele- 
vating her spinneret as high as she can, and laying 



* Spectacle de la Nature, i. 58, f Linn. Trans, vol. xv. 



 



down a step upon which she stands to form a second ; 
and so on, as any one may try by placing a spider 
at the bottom of a very clean wine glass. 

The hairs of the legs, however, are always catching 
bits of web and particles of dust ; but these are not 
suffered to remain long. Most people may have re- 
marked that the house-fly is ever and anon brushing 
its feet upon one another to rub off the dust, though 
we have not seen it remarked in authors, that spiders 
are equally assiduous in keeping themselves clean. 
They have, besides, a more efficient instrument than 
the fly, in their mandibles or jaws, which, like their 
claws, are furnished with teeth ; and a spider which 
appears to a careless observer as resting idly, in nine 
cases out of ten, will be found slowly combing her 
legs with her mandibles, beginning as high as pos- 
sible on the thigh, and passing down to the claws. 
The flue which she thus combs off is regularly tossed 
away. 

With respect to the house-spider (A. domestica ), 
we are told in books, that she “ from time to time 
clears away the dust from her web, and sweeps the 
whole by giving it a shake with her paw, so nicely 
proportioning the force of her blow, that she never 
breaks any thing*.” That spiders may be seen 
shaking their webs in this manner, we readily 
admit ; though it is not, we imagine, to clear them 
of dust, but to ascertain whether they are sufficiently 
sound and strong. 

We recently witnessed a more laborious process of 
cleaning a web than merely shaking it. On coming 
down the Maine by the steam boat from Frankfort, 
in August 1829, we observed the geometric-net of a 
conic-spider (Epeira conica, VValck.) on the frame- 
work of the deck, and as it was covered with flakes 



* Spectacle de la Nature, i. p. 61. 







of soot from the smoke of the engine, we were sur- 
prised to see a spider at work on it ; for, in order to 
be useful, this sort of net must be clean. Upon ob- 
serving it a little closely, however, we perceived that 
she was not constructing a net, but dressing up an 
old one ; though not, we must think, to save trouble, 
so much as an expenditure of material. Some of the 
lines she dextrously stripped of the flakes of soot 
adhering to them ; but in the greater number finding 
that she could not get them sufficiently clean, she 
broke them quite off, bundled them up, and tossed 
them over. We counted five of these packets of 
rubbish which she thus threw away, though there 
must have been many more, as it was some time 
before we discovered the manoeuvre, the packets 
being so small as not to be readily perceived, except 
when placed between the eye and the light. When 
she had cleared off all the sooted lines, she began to 
replace them in the usual way ; but the arrival of the 
boat at Mentz put an end to our observations*. 



* J. R. 






Many of the processes which we have detailed 
bear some resemblance to our own operations of 
building with materials cemented together ; but we 
shall now turn our attention to a class of insect- 
architects, who cannot, so far as we know, be matched 
in prospective skill, by any of the higher orders of 
animals. We refer to the numerous family which 
have received the name of gall-flies, — a family 
which, as yet, is very imperfectly understood, their 
economy being no less difficult to trace, than their 
species is to arrange in the established systems of 
classification. 

One of the most simple and very common in- 




Small berry\shaped galls of the oak leaf, produced by Ci/nips Qusrcusfolii ? 







stances of the nests constructed by gall-insects, may 
be found in abundance during the summer, on the 
leaves of the rose-tree, the oak, the poplar, the wil- 
low ( Salix viminalis,) and many other trees, in the 
globular form of a berry, about the size of a currant, 
and usually of a green colour, tinged with red, like 
a ripe Alban or Baltimore apple. 

When this pseudo-apple in miniature is cut into, 
it is found to be fresh, firm, juicy, and hollow in the 
centre, where there is either an egg or a grub safely 
lodged, and protected from all ordinary accidents. 
Within this hollow ball the egg is hatched, and the 
grub feeds securely on its substance, till it prepares 
for its winter sleep, before changing into a gall-fly 
( Cynips ), in the ensuing summer. There is a mys- 
tery as to the manner in which this gall-fly contrives 
to produce the hollow miniature-apples, each en- 
closing one of her eggs ; and the doubts attendant 
upon the subject cannot, so far as our present know- 
ledge extends, be solved, except by plausible conjec- 
ture. Our earlier naturalists were of opinion that it 
was the grub which produced the galls, by eating, 
when newly hatched, through the cuticle of the leaf, 
and remaining till the juices flowing from the wound 
enveloped it, and acquired consistence by exposure 
to the air. This opinion, however, plausible as it 
appeared to be, was at once disproved by finding un- 
hatched eggs on opening the galls. 

There can be no doubt, indeed, that the mother gall- 
fly makes a hole in the plant for the purpose of 
depositing her eggs. She is furnished with an 
admirable ovipositor for that express purpose, and 
Swammerdam actually saw a gall-fly thus deposit- 
ing her eggs. In some of these insects the ovi- 
positor is conspicuously long, even when the insect 
is at rest ; but in others, not above a line or two 
of it is visible, till the belly of the insect be gently 







pressed. When this is done to the fly that pro- 
duces the currant-gall of the oak, the ovipositor may 
be seen issuing from a sheath in form of a small 
curved needle, of a chestnut-brown colour, and of a 
horny substance, and three times as long as it at first 
appeared. 




Ovipositor of gall-flu , greatly magnified. 



What is most remarkable in this ovipositor is, that 
it is much longer than the whole body of the insect, 
in whose belly it is lodged in a sheath, and from its 
horny nature, it cannot be either shortened or length- 
ened. It is on this account that it is bent into the 
same curve as the body of the insect. The me- 
chanism by which this is effected is similar to that 
of the tongue of a woodpecker (picas'), which, 
though rather short, can be darted out far beyond 
the beak, by means of the hyoid-bone * being thin and 
rolled up like the spring of a watch. The base of 
the ovipositor of the gall-fly is, in a similar way, 
placed near the anus, runs along the curvature of the 
back, makes a turn at the breast, and then, following 
the curve of the belly, appears again near where it 
originates. We copy from Reaumur his accurate 
sketch of this remarkable structure. 



* A forked bone at the root of the tongue. 








Gall-fly, and mechanism of ovipositor, greatly magnified. 



With this instrument the mother gall-fly pierces 
the part of a plant which she selects, and, according 
to our older naturalists, “ ejects into the cavity a drop 
of her corroding liquor, and immediately lays an egg 
or more there ; the circulation of the sap being thus 
interrupted, and thrown, by the poison, into a fer- 
mentation that burns the contiguous parts, and 
changes the natural colour. The sap, turned from 
its proper channel, extravasates and flows round the 
eggs while its surface is dried by the external air, and 
hardens into a vaulted form*.” Kirby and Spence 
tell us, that the parent fly introduces her egg “ into 
a puncture made by her curious spiral sting, and in a 
few hours it becomes surrounded with a fleshy cham- 
ber t.” M. Virey says, the gall tubercle is produced 
by irritation, in the same way as an inflamed tumor 

* Spectacle de la Nature, i, 119. 
f Introd., ii. 449. 







in an animal body, by the swelling - of the cellular 
tissue and the flow of liquid matter, which changes 
the organization, and alters the natural external 
form*. This seems to be the received doctrine at 
present in Francef. 

Sprengel, speaking of the rose-willow, says, the 
insect in spring deposits its eggs in the leaf buds. 
“ The new stimulus attracts the sap, — the type of the 
part becomes changed, and from the prevailing 
acidity of the animal juice, it happens, that in the 
rose and stock-shaped leaves which are pushed out, 
a red instead of a green colour is evolved J.” 

Without pretending positively to state facts which 
are, perhaps, beyond human penetration, we may view 
the process in a rather different light §. Following 
the analogy of what is known to occur in the case of 
the saw-flies (see page 156), after the gall-fly has 
made a puncture and pushed her egg into the hole, 
we may suppose that she covers it over with some 
adhesive gluten or gum, or the egg itself, as is usual 
among moths, &c., may be coated over with such a 
gluten. In either of these two cases, the gluten will 
prevent the sap that flows through the puncture from 
being scattered over the leaf and wasted ; and the 
sap, being thus confined to the space occupied by the 
eggs, will expand and force outwards the pellicle of 
gluten that confines it, till becoming thickened by 
evaporation and exposure to the air, it at length shuts 
up the puncture, stops the further escape of the sap, 
and the process is completed. This explanation 
will completely account tor the globular form of the 
galls alluded to ; that is, supposing the egg of the 



* Hist, des Moeurs et de l’l nstinct, vol. ii. 
f Entomologie par R. A. E. page 242. Paris, 1826. 

$ Elements oi’ the Philosophy of Plants, Eng. Trans. p.2S3. 

$ J. R. , 







gall-fly to be globular, and covered, or coated with a 
pellicle of gluten of uniform thickness, and conse- 
quently opposing uniform resistance, or rather uni- 
form expansibility, to the sap pressing from within. 
It will also account for the remarkable uniformity in 
the size of the gall apples ; for the punctures and the 
eggs being uniform in size, and the gluten, by sup- 
position, uniform in quantity, no more than the 
same quantity of sap can escape in such circum- 
stances. 

But though this explanation appears to be plau- 
sible, it is confessedly altogether conjectural ; for 
nobody since Swammerdam, so far as we at pre- 
sent know, has ever detected a gall-fly in the act 
of depositing her eggs, and he did not attend to this 
circumstance. The indefatigable Reaumur, on one 
occasion, thought he would make sure of tracing the 
steps of the process in the case of the gall-fly, which 
produces the bedeguar * on the wild-rose tree, and to 
which we shall presently advert. His plan was to 
enclose in a box, in which a brood of flies had just 
been produced from a bedeguar, a living branch from 
a wild rose-tree ; but, to his great disappointment, 
no eggs were laid, and no bedeguar formed. Upon 
further investigation, he discovered that the brood 
of flies produced from the bedeguar were not the 
genuine bedeguar insects at all, but one of the 
parasite ichneumons ( Callimone Bedeguciris, Ste- 
phens,) which had surreptitiously deposited their 
eggs there, in order to supply their young with the 
bedeguar grubs, all of which they appeared to have 
devoured. It may prove interesting to look into the 
remarkable structure of the bedeguar itself, which 
is very different from the globular galls above de- 
scribed. 



* The gall of the rose is so called botanically. 






Bedeguar gall of the rose, produced bg Cynips Roscr. 



The gall-fly of the willow ( Cynips viminalis ) de- 
posits, as we have just seen, only a single egg on 
one spot; but the bedeguar-insect lays a large cluster 
of eggs on the extremity of a growing branch of the 
wild rose-tree, making, probably, a proportionate 
number of punctures to procure materials for the 
future habitation of her young progeny. As in the 
former case also, each of these eggs becomes (as we 
may suppose) surrounded with the sap of the rose, 
enclosed in a pellicle of gluten. The gluten, how- 
ever, of the bedeguar insect, is not, it would appear, 
sufficiently tenacious to confine the flowing sap 
within the dimensions of any of the little clustered 
globes containing the eggs, for it oozes out from 
numerous cracks or pores in the pellicle; which 







cracks or pores, however, are not large enough to 
admit a human hair. But this, so far from beinc: a 



defect in the glutinous pellicle of the bedeguar fly, 
is, as we shall presently see, of great utility. The 
sap which issues from each of those pores, instead of 
being evaporated and lost, shoots out into a reddish- 
coloured, fibrous bristle. 




One of the bristles of the Bedeguar of the rose magnified. 

It is about half an inch long, and, from the natural 
tendency of the sap of the rose tree to form prickles, 
these are all over studded with weak pricklets. The 
bedeguar, accordingly, when fully formed, has some 
resemblance, at a little distance, to a tuft of reddish- 
brown hair or moss, stuck upon the branch. Some- 
times this tuft is as large as a small apple, and of a 
rounded, but irregular shape ; at other times it is 
smaller, and in one instance mentioned by Reau- 
mur, only a single egg had been laid on a rose leaf, 
and consequently, only one tuft was produced. 
Each member of the congeries is furnished with its 
own tuft of bristles, arising from the little hollow 
globe in which the egg or the grub is lodged. 

The prospective wisdom of this curious structure 
is admirable. The bedeguar grubs live in their cells 
through the winter, and as their domicile is usually 
on one of the highest branches, it must be exposed 
to every severity of the weather. But the close, non- 
conducting, warm, mossy collection of bristles with 
which it is surrounded, forms for the soft, tender 
grubs a snug protection against the winter’s cold, till, 







through the influence of the warmth of the succeed- 
ing summer, they undergo their final change into the 
winged state, — preparatory to which they eat their 
way with their sharp mandibles through the walls of 
their little cells, which are now so hard as to be cut 
with difficulty by a knife*. 

Another structure, similar in principle, though dif- 
ferent in appearance, is very common upon oak-trees, 
the termination of a branch being selected as best 
suited for the purpose. This structure is rather 
larger than a filbert, and is composed of concentric 
leaves diverging from the base, and expanding up- 
wards, somewhat like an artichoke. Whether this 




Artichoke Gall of the Oak-bud, with Gall-Jh/ (Cynips quercus gemmee ), 
natural size, and its ovipositor (a) magnified. 



* J.R. 







leafy structure is caused by a superinduced disease, 
as the French think, or by the form of the pores in 
the pellicle of gluten surrounding the eggs, or rather 
by the tendency of the exuding sap of the oak to 
form leaves, has not been ascertained ; but that it is 
intended, as in the case of the bedeguar, to afford 
an efficient protection against the weather to the in- 
cluded eggs or grubs, there can be no doubt. 

From the very nature of the process of forming 
willow-galls, bedeguar, and the artichoke of the 
oak, whatever theory be adopted, it will be obvious 
that their growth must be rapid ; for the thicken- 
ing of the exuded sap, which is quickly effected by 
evaporation, will soon obstruct and finally close the 
orifice of the puncture made by the parent insect. 
It is accordingly asserted by Reaumur and other ob- 
servers, that all the species of galls soon reach their 
full growth. 

A very minute reddish-coloured grub feeds upon 
dyer’s broom ( Genista ), producing a sort of gall, fre- 
quently globular, but always studded with bristles, 
arising from the amorphous leaves. The stem of 
the shrub passes through this ball, which is com- 
posed of a great number of leaves, shorter and 
broader than natural, and each rolled into the form 
of a horn, the point of which ends in a bristle. In 
the interior we find a thick fleshy substance, serving 
to sustain the leaves, and also for the nourishment 
of the grubs, some of which are within and some 
between the leaves. They are in prodigious num- 
bers, — hundreds being assembled in the same gall, 
and so minute as scarcely to be perceived without 
the aid of a magnifying glass. The bud of the plant 
attacked by those grubs, instead of forming a shoot, 
pushes out nothing but leaves, and these are all 
rolled and turned round the stem. Some shrubs 







have several of these galls, which are of various 
sizes, from that of a filbert to that of a walnut. 




Leafy Gall of Dyer's Broom, produced, by Cynips penis tee ? 

A. gall, natural size; B- a leafet magnified. 

A similar but still more beautiful production is 
found upon one of the commonest of our indigenous 
willows ( Salix purpurea ), which takes the name of 
rose-willow, more probably from the circumstance 
than from the red colour of its twigs. The older 
botanists, not being aware of the cause of such ex- 
crescences, considered the plants so affected as dis- 
tinct species ; and old Gerard, accordingly, figures 
and describes the rose-willow as “ not onlie making 
a gallant shew, but also yeelding a most cooling aire 
in the heat of summer, being set up in houses for 
decking the same.” The production in question, 
however, is nothing more than the effect produced 
by a species of gall-fly ( Cynips salicis ) depositing its 
eggs in the terminal shoot of a twig, and, like the 






bedeguar and the oak artichoke, causing leaves to 
spring out, of a shape totally different from the other 
leaves of the tree, and arranged very much like the 
petals of a rose. Decandolle says it is found chiefly 
on the Salix helix, S. alba , and S. riparia*. 

A production very like that of the rose-willow 
may be commonly met with on the young shoots of 
the hawthorn, the growth of the shoot affected being 
stopped, and a crowded bunch of leaves formed at 
the termination. These leaves, beside being smaller 
than natural, are studded with short bristly prickles, 
from the sap (we may suppose) of the hawthorn 
being prevented from rising into a fresh shoot, and 
thrown out of its usual course in the formation of 
the arms. These bristles appear indiscriminately 
on both sides of the leaves, some of which are bent 
inwards, while others diverge in their natural manner. 

This is not caused by the egg or grub of a true 
gall-fly, but by the small white tapering grub of 
some dipterous insect, of which we have not ascer- 
tained the species, but which is, probably, a ceci - 
domyia. Each terminal shoot is inhabited by a 
number of these — not lodged in cells, however, but 
burrowing indiscriminately among the half-withered 
brown leaves which occupy the centre of the pro- 
duction f. 

A more remarkable species of gall than any of 
the above, we discovered in June, 1829, on the 
twig of an oak in the grounds of Mr. Perkins, at 
Lee, in Kent. When we first saw it, we imagined 
that the twig was beset with some species of the 
lanigerous aphides, similar to what is vulgarly called 
the American or white blight ( aphis lanata ) ; but 
on closer examination we discarded this notion. The 
twig was indeed thickly beset with a white downy, 

* Flore Franc. Disc. Preliminaire. 
j J. R. 








or rather woolly, substance around the stem at the 
origin of the leaves, which did not appear to be 
affected in their growth, being well formed, healthy, 
and luxuriant. We could not doubt that the woolly 
substance was caused by some insect ; but though 
we cut out a portion of it, we could not detect any* 
egg or grab, and we therefore threw the branch 
into a drawer, intending to keep it as a specimen, 
whose history we might complete at some subse- 
quent period. 

A few weeks afterwards, on opening this drawer, 
we were surprised to see a brood of several dozens 
of a species of gall-fly ( Cynips ), similar in form and 
size to that whose ego's cause the bedeguar of the 
rose, and differing only in being of a lighter colour, 
tending to a yellowish brown. We have since met 
with a figure and description of this gall in Swam- 
merdam. We may remark that the above is not the 
first instance which has occurred in our researches, 
of gall insects outliving the withering of the branch 
or leaf from which they obtain their nourishment. 







JVoolly Gall of the Oak , caused ly a cynips, and drawn from a 

specimen. 

The woolly substance on the branch of the oak 
which we have described was similarly constituted 
with the bedeguar of the rose, with this difference, 
that instead of the individual cells being diffused 
irregularly through the mass, they were all arranged 
at the off-ffoino-s of the leafstalks, each cell beins; 
surrounded with a covering of the vegetable wool, 
which the stimulus of the parent egg, or its gluten, 
had caused to grow, and from each cell a perfect 
fly had issued. We also remarked that there were 
several small groups of individual cells, each of which 
groups was contained in a species of calyx or cup 
of leaf-scales, as occurs also in the well-known gall 
called the oak-apple. 







We were anxious to watch the proceedings of these 
flies in the deposition of their eggs, and the subse- 
quent developments of the gall-growths ; and endea- 
voured for that purpose to procure a small oak plant 
in a garden-pot ; but we did not succeed in this : and 
though they alighted on rose and sweet-briar trees, 
which we placed in their way, we never observed that 
they deposited any eggs upon them. In a week or 
two the whole brood died, or disappeared 

There are some galls, formed on low-growing 
plants, which are covered with down, hair, or wool, 
though by no means so copiously as the one which 
we have just described. Among the plants so affected 
are the germander speedwell, wild-thyme, ground- 
ivy, and others, to which we shall afterwards advert. 

The well-known oak-apple is a very pretty example 
of the galls formed by insects ; and this, when com- 
pared with other galls which form on the oak, shews 
the remarkable difference produced on the same plant 
by the punctures of insects of different species. The 




Oal^apple galls, cns being cut, open to shew the vessels running to 

granules. 



* J. R. 







oak-apple is commonly as large as a walnut or small 
apple, rounded, but not quite spherical, the surface 
being irregularly depressed in various places. The 
skin is smooth, and tinged with red and yellow, like a 
ripe apple ; and at the base there is, in the earlier part 
of the summer, a calyx or cup of five or six small 
brown scaly leaves; but these fall off as the season ad- 
vances. If an oak-apple, be cut transversely, there is 
brought into view a number of oval granules, each con- 
taining a grub, and embedded in a fruit-looking fleshy 
substance, having fibres running through it. As these 
fibres, however, run in the direction of the stem, they 
are best exhibited by a vertical section of the gall ; 
and this also shows the remarkable peculiarity of 
each fibre terminating in one of the granules, like a 
footstalk, or rather like a vessel for carrying nourish- 
ment. Reaumur, indeed, is of opinion that these 
fibres are the diverted nervures of the leaves, which 
would have sprung from the bud in which the gall- 
fly had inserted her eggs, and actually do carry sap- 
vessels throughout the substance of the 2;all. 



Reaumur says the perfect insects ( Cynips quercus ) 
issued from his galls in June and the beginning of 
July, and were of a reddish-amber colour. We have 
procured insects, agreeing with Reaumur’s descrip- 
tion, from galls formed on the bark or wood of the 




Ruot-Cidlls of the Oalt, produced by Cynips quercus inferus ? drawn 

from a specimen. 



Oak, at the line of junction between the root and the 
stem. These galls are precisely similar in structure 





to the oak-apple, and are probably formed at a season 
when the fly perceives, instinctively, that the buds of 
the young branches are unfit for the purpose of 
nidification. 

There is another oak-gall, differing little in size 
and appearance from the oak-apple, but which is 
very different in structure, as instead of giving pro- 
tection and nourishment to a number of grubs, it is 
only inhabited by one. This sort of gall, besides, is 
hard and woody on the outside, resembling a little 
wooden ball of a yellowish colour, but internally of 
a soft, spongy texture. The latter substance, how- 
ever, incloses a small hard gall, which is the im- 
mediate residence of the included insect. Galls of 
this description are often found in clusters of from 
two to seven, near the extremity of a branch, not 
incorporated, however, but distinctly separate. 

We have obtained a fly very similar to this from a 
very common gall, which is formed on the branches 




JVoody-Gall on a JFiilow branch, drawn from a specimen. 

of the willow. Like the one-celled galls just de- 
scribed, this is of a hard, ligneous structure, and 
forms an irregular protuberance, sometimes at the 







extremity, and sometimes on the body, of a branch. 
But instead of one, this has a considerable number 
of cells, irregularly distributed through its substance. 
The structure is somewhat spongy, but fibrous ; and 
externally the bark is smoother than that of the 
branch upon which it grows *. 

The currant-galls (as the French call them) of the 
oak are exactly similar, when formed on the leaves, 
to those which we have first described as produced 
on the leaves of the willow and other trees. But the 
name of currant-gall seems still more appropriate to 
an excrescence which grows on the catkins of the 
oak, giving them very much the appearance of a 
straggling bunch of currants or bird-cherries. The 
galls resemble currants which have fallen from the 
tree before being ripe. These galls do not seem to 
differ from those formed on the leaves of the oak ; 
and are probably the production of the same insect. 




Currant-Oall of the catkins of the Oak, produced Jby Cynips 
quercus pedunculi ? 



* J. It. 








which selects the catkin in preference, by the same 
instinct that the oak-apple gall-fly, as we have seen, 
sometimes deposits its eggs in the bark of the oak 
near the root. 

The gall of the oak, which forms an important 
dye-staff, and is used in making writing-ink, is also 
produced by a Cynips , and has been described in the 
Library of Entertaining Knowledge , (Vegetable 
Substances, p. 16.) The employment of the Cynips 
psenes for ripening figs is described in the same 
volume, p. 244. 

Gall of a Hawthorn Weevil. 

In May, 1829, we found on a hawthorn at Lee, in 
Kent, the leaves at the extremity of a branch neatly 
folded up in a bundle, but not quite so closely as is 
usual in the case of leaf-rolling caterpillars. On 
opening them up, there was no caterpillar to be 
seen, the centre being occupied with a roundish, 
brown-coloured, woody substance, similar to some 
excrescences made by gall-insects {Cynips). Had 
we been aware of its real nature, w r e should have put 
it immediately under a glass or in a box, till the con- 
tained insect had developed itself ; but instead of this, 
we opened the ball, where we found a small yellow- 
ish grub coiled up, and feeding on the exuding 
juices of the tree. As we could not replace the grub 
in its cell, part of the walls of which we had unfor- 
tunately broken, we put it in a small pasteboard box 
with a fresh shoot of hawthorn, expecting that it 
might construct a fresh cell. This, however, it was 
probably incompetent to perform : it did not at least 
make the attempt, and neither did it seem to feed on 
the fresh branch, keeping in preference to the ruins 
of its former cell. To our great surprise, although 
it was thus exposed to the air, and deprived of a con- 
siderable portion of its nourishment, both from the 







part of the cell having been broken off, and from the 
juices of the branch having been dried up, the insect 
went through its regular changes, and appeared in 
the form of a small greyish-brown beetle of the weevil 




Gall of the Hawthorn Weevil, drawn from specimen, 
a. Opened to show the grub. 

family. The most remarkable circumstance in the 
case in question, was the apparent inability of the 
grub to construct a fresh cell after the first was in- 
jured, — proving, we think, beyond a doubt, that it 
is the puncture made by the parent insect when the 
egg is deposited, that causes the exudation and sub- 
sequent concretion of the juices forming the gall 
A few other instances of beetles producing galls 
are recorded by naturalists. Kirbv and Spence have 
ascertained, for example, that the bumps formed on 
the roots of kedlock or charlock ( S inapis arvensis ) 
are inhabited by the larvse of a weevil ( Curculio 
contractus, Mars ham ; and Rhynchcenus assimilis, 
Fabr.) ; and it may be reasonably supposed that 
either the same or similar insects cause the clubbing 

* J. R. 







of the roots of cabbages, and the knob-like galls on 
turnips, called in some places the anbury. They 
are evidently beetles of an allied genus which form 
the woody galls sometimes met with on the leaves of 
the guelder-rose (Viburnum), the lime-tree (Tilia 
europcea ), and the beech ( Fagus sylvatica). 

There are also some two-winged flies which pro- 
duce woody galls on various plants, such as the 
thistle-fly (Tephritis cardui , Latr.) The grubs of 
this pretty fly produce on the leaf-stalks of thistles 
an oblong woody knob. On the common white 
briony (Bryonia clioica) of our hedges may be 
found a very pretty fly of this genus, of a yellowish 
brown colour, with pellucid wings, waved much 
like those of the thistle-fly with yellowish brown. 
This fly lays its eggs near a joint of the stem, and 
the grubs live upon its substance. The joint swells 
out into an oval form, furrowed in several places, 
and the fly is subsequently disclosed. In its perfect 
state, it feeds on the blossom of the briony*. Flies 
of another minute family, the gall-gnats ( Cecidomyice , 
Latr.), pass the first stage of their existence in the 
small globular cottony galls which abound on ger- 
mander speedwell (Veronica chamcedrys), wild thyme 
(Thymus serpyllum ), and ground ivy (Glechoma 
hederacea ) . The latter is by no means uncommon, 
and may be readily recognised. 

Certain species of plant-lice (Aphides), whose com- 
plete history would require a volume, produce ex- 
crescences upon plants which may with some pro- 
priety be termed galls, or semi-galls. Some of these 
are without any aperture, whilst others are in form 
of an inflated vesicle, with a narrow opening on the 
under side of a leaf, and expanding (for the most 
part irregularly) into a rounded knob on its upper 



* J. R, 







surface. The mountain-ash ( Pyrns aucuparia) has 
its leaves and young shoots frequently affected in 
this way, and sometimes exhibits galls larger than a 
walnut, or even than a man’s fist : at other times 
they do not grow larger than a filbert. Upon open- 
ing one of these, they are found to be filled with the 
aphides sorhi. If taken at an early stage of then- 
growth, they are found open on the under side of the 
leaf, and inhabited only by a single female aphis, 
pregnant with a numerous family of young. In a 
short time, the aperture becomes closed, in conse- 
quence of the insect making repeated punctures 
round its edge, from which sap is exuded, and 
forms an additional portion of the walls of the cell. 




A Plant Louse (Aphis), magnified- 

In this early stage of its growth, however, the gall 
does not, like the galls of the cynips, increase very 
much in dimensions. It is after the increase of the 
inhabitants by the young brood that it grows with 
considerable rapidity ; for each additional insect, in 
order to procure food, has to puncture the wall of the 
chamber and suck the juices, and from the punctures 
thus made the sap exudes, and enlarges the walls. 
As those galls are closed all round in the more ad- 
vanced state, it does not appear how the insects can 
£.ver effect an exit from their imprisonment. 

A much more common production, allied to the 







one just described, may be found on the poplar, in 
June and July. Most of our readers may have ob- 
served, about Midsummer, a small snow-white tuft 
of downy-looking substance floating 1 about on the 
wind, as if animated. Those tufts of snow-white 
down are never seen in numbers at the same time, 
but generally single, though some dozens of them 
may be observed in the course of one day. This sin- 
gular object is a four-winged fly ( [Eriosomci populi, 
Leach), whose body is thickly covered with long 
down — a covering which seems to impede its flight, 
and make it appear more like an inanimate substance 
floating about on the wind, than impelled by the 
volition of a living animal. This pretty fly feeds 
upon the fresh juices of the black poplar, preferring 
that of the leaves and leaf-stalks, which it punctures 
for this purpose with its beak. It fixes itself with 
this design to a suitable place upon the principal 
nervure of the leaf, or upon the leaf-stalk, and re- 
mains in the same spot till the sap, exuding through 
the punctures, and thickening by contact with the 
air, surrounds it with a thick fleshy wall of living 
vegetable substance, intermediate in texture between 
the wood and the leaf, being softer than the former 
and harder than the latter. In this snug little cham- 
ber, secure from the intrusion of lady-birds and the 
grubs of aphidivorous flies ( Syrphi ), she brings 
forth her numerous brood of young ones, who imme- 
diately assist in enlarging the extent of their dwelling, 
by puncturing the walls. In one respect, however, 
the galls thus formed ditfer from those of the moun- 
tain-ash just described, — those of the poplar having 
always an opening left into some part of the cell, and 
usually in that portion of it which is elongated into 
an obtuse beak. From this opening the young, when 
arrived at the winged state, make their exit, to form 







new colonies ; and during their migrations, attract 
the attention of the most incurious by the singularity 
of their appearance 




Galls produced on the leaves and leaf-stalks of the Poplar ly 
Eriosoma popidi , with the various forms of the insects, winged, nut 
winged, and covered with wool. 



On the black poplar there may be found, later in 
the season than the preceding, a gall of a very dif- 
ferent form, though, like the other, it is for the most 
part on the leaf-stalk. The latter sort of galls are 
of a spiral form ; and though they are closed, they 
open upon slight pressure, and appear to be formed 
of two laminae, twisted so as to unite. It is at this 



* J. r : 







opening that an aperture is formed spontaneously for 
the exit of the insects, when arrived at a perfect state. 
In galls of this kind we find aphides, but of a dif- 
ferent species from the lanigerous ones, which form 
the horn-shaped galls above described. 

Leaf-Rolling Aphides. 

It may not be improper to introduce here a brief 
sketch of some other effects, of a somewhat similar 
kind, produced on leaves by other species of the 
same family (Aphides). In all the instances of this 
kind which we have examined, the form which the 
leaf takes serves as a protection to the insects, both 
from the weather and from depredators. That there 
is design in it appears from the circumstance of the 
aphides crowding into the embowering vault which 
they have formed ; and we are not quite certain 
whether they do not puncture certain parts of the 
leaf for the very purpose of making it arch over 
them ; at least, in many cases, such as that of the 
hop-fly ( Aphis humuli ), though the insects are in 
countless numbers, no arching of the leaves follows. 
The rose-plant louse, again, ( Aphis roses,) sometimes 
arches the leaves, but more frequently gets under the 
protecting folds of the half-expanded leaf-buds *. 

One of the most common instances of what we 
mean occurs on the leaves of the currant-bush, 
which may often be observed raised up into irregular 
bulgings, of a reddish-brown colour. On examining 
the under side of such a leaf, there will be seen a 
crowd of small insects, some with and some without 
wings, which are the Aphides ribis in their different 
stages, feeding securely and socially on the juices of 
the leaf. 

The most remarkable instance of this, however, 



* J. R. 








I.eaf of the Currant-hush, bulged out by the Aphis ribes. 



which we have seen, occurs on the leaves of the elm, 
and is caused by the u4phis ulmi. The edge of an 
elm-leaf inhabited by those aphides is rolled up in 
an elegant convoluted form, very much like a spiral 
shell ; and in the embowered chamber thus formed, 
the insects are secure from rain, wind, and, partially, 
from the depredations of carnivorous insects. One 
of their greatest enemies, the lady-bird ( Coccinella ), 
seldom ventures, as we have remarked, into con- 
cealed corners, except in cold weather, and contrives 
to find food enough among the aphides which feed 
openly and unprotected, such as the magpie aphides 
of the alder ( Aphides sambuci). The grubs, how- 
ever, of the lady-bird, and also those of the aphidi- 
vorous flies ( Syrphi ), may be found prying into the 
most secret recesses of a leaf, to prey upon the inha- 







bitants, whose slow movements disqualify them from 
effecting- an escape *. 

The effects of the puncture of aphides on growing 
plants is strikingly illustrated in the shoots of the 
lime-tree and several other plants, which become 
bent and contorted on the side attacked by the insects, 
in the same way as the shoot might warp by the loss 
of its juices on the side exposed to a brisk fire. The 
curvings thus effected become very advantageous to 
the insects, for the leaves sprouting from the twig, 
which naturally grow at a distance from each other, 
are brought close together in a bunch, forming a 
kind of nosegay, that conceals all the contour of 
the sprig, as well as the insects which are em- 
bowered under it, protecting them against the rain 
and the sun, and at the same time hiding them 
from observation. It is only requisite, however, 




Shoot of the Lime-tree contorted by the punctures of the Aphis Tilicv. 

where they have formed bowers of this descrip- 
tion, to raise the leaves, in order to see the little 
colony of the aphides, — or the remains of those 



* J. R. 







habitations which they have abandoned. We have 
sometimes observed sprig’s of the lime-tree, of a 
thumb’s thickness, portions of which resembled spiral 
screws, but we could not certainly have assigned the 
true cause for this twisting, had we not been ac- 
quainted with the manner in which aphides contort 
the young shoots of this tree*. The shoots of the 
gooseberry and the willow are sometimes contorted 
in the same way, but not so strikingly as the shoots 
of the lime. 

Pseudo-Galls. 

It may not be out of place to mention here certain 
anomalous excrescences upon trees and other plants, 
which, though they much resemble galls, are not so 
distinctly traceable to the operations of any insect. In 
our researches after galls, we have not unfrequently 
met with excrescences which so very much resemble 
them, that before dissection we should not hesitate to 




Pseudo-^all of the Bramble , drawn from a spec men. 
* Reaumur, vol. iii. 





consider them as such, and predict that they formed the 
nidus of some species of insects. In more instances 
than one we have felt so strongly assured of this, that 
we have kept several specimens for some months, in 
nurse-boxes, expecting that in due time the perfect 
insects would be disclosed. 

One of these pseudo-galls occurs on the common 
bramble (Rubus fruticosus), and bears some resem- 
blance to thebedeguarofthe rose when old and changed 
by weather. It clusters round the branches in the form 
of irregular granules, about the size of a pea, very 
much crowded, the whole excrescence being rather 
larger than a walnut. We expected to find this 
excrescence full of grubs, and were much surprised 
to discover, upon dissection, that it was only a dis- 
eased growth of the plant, caused (it might be) by 
the puncture of an insect, but not for the purpose of 
a nidus or habitation*. 

Another sort of excrescence is not uncommon on 
the terminal shoots of the hawthorn. This is in 
general irregularly oblong, and the bark which covers 
it is of an iron colour, similar to the scoriae of a black- 
smith’s forge. When dissected, we find no traces of 
insects, but a hard, ligneous, and rather porous tex- 
ture. It is not improbable that this excrescence may 
originate in the natural growth of a shoot being 
checked by the punctures of aphides, or of those 
grubs which we have described (page 389). 

Many of those excrescences, however, are probably 
altogether unconnected with insects, and are simply 
hypertrophic diseases, produced by too much nourish- 
ment, like the wens produced on animals. Instances 
of this may be seen at the roots of the holyhock 
( Althea rosea) of three or four years’ standing; on 
the stems of the elm and other trees, immediately 



* J. R. 








Pseudo-galls of the Hawthorn, drawn from specimens. 

above the root ; and on the upper branches of the 
birch, where a crowded cluster of twigs sometimes 
grows, bearing no distant resemblance to a rook’s 
nest in miniature. * - - - 

One of the prettiest of those pseudo-galls with 
which we are acquainted, is produced on the Scotch 
fir ( Pinus sylvestris ), by the aphis pini, which is one 
of the largest species of our indigenous aphides. The 
production we allude to may be found, during the 




Pseudo-gall produced by Aphis Pini on the Scotch fir, drawn from 

a specimen. 





summer months, on the terminal shoots of this tree, 
in the form of a small cone, much like the fruit of the 
tree in miniature, but with this difference, that the 
fruit terminates in a point, whereas the pseudo-gall 
is nearly globular. Its colour also, instead of being 
green is reddish ; but it exhibits the tiled scales of the 
fruit cone. 

We have mentioned this the more willingly that it 
seems to confirm the theory which we hazarded 
above, respecting the formation of the bedeguar of 
the rose and other true galls — by which we ascribed 
to the sap diverted from its natural course by insects, 
a tendency to form leaves, &c., like those of the plant 
from which it is made to exude. 





The structures which we have hitherto noticed have 
all been formed of inanimate materials, or at the 
most of growing vegetables ; but those to which we 
shall now advert are actually composed of the flesh 
of living animals, and seem to be somewhat akin to 
the galls already described, as formed upon the 
shoots and leaves of plants. These were first inves- 
tigated by the accurate Vallisnieri, and subsequently 
by Reaumur, De Geer, and Linnaeus ; but the best 
account which has hitherto been given of them is by 
our countryman Mr. Bracey Clark, who differs essen- 
tially from his predecessors as to the mode in which 
the eggs are deposited. As in consequence of the ex- 
treme difficulty, if not the impossibility, of personal 
observation, it is no easy matter to decide between the 
conflicting opinions, we shall give such of the state- 
ments as appear most plausible. 

The mother breeze-fly ( Oestrus bovis, Clark ; — 
Hypoderma bovis , Latr.), which produces the tu- 
mours in cattle called wurbles , or wormuls ( quasi , 
worm-holes ), is a two-winged insect, smaller, but 
similar in appearance and colour to the carder-bee 
(p. 64), with two black bands, one crossing the 
shoulders and the other the abdomen, the rest being 

* In order to prevent ambiguity, it is necessary to remark that 
the excrescences thus called must not be confounded with the 
true galls, which are occasionally found in the gall bladder. 





covered with yellow hair. This fly appears to have 
been first discovered by Yallisnieri, who has given a 
curious and interesting history of his observations 
upon its economy. “ After having read this account,” 
says Reaumur, “ with sincere pleasure, I became ex- 
ceedingly desirous of seeing with my own eyes what 
the Italian naturalist had reported in so erudite and 
pleasing a manner. I did not then imagine that it 
would ever be my lot to speak upon a subject which 
had been treated with so much care and elegance ; 
but since I have enjoyed more favourable opportuni- 
ties than M. Vallisnieri, it was not difficult for me to 
investigate some of the circumstances better, and to 
consider them under a different point of view. It is 
not indeed very wonderful to discover something 
new in an object, though it has been already care- 
fully inspected with very good eyes, when we sit 
down to examine it more narrowly, and in a more 
favourable position ; while it sometimes happens, 
also, that most indifferent observers have detected 
what had been previously unnoticed by the most 
skilful interpreters of nature*.” 

From the observations made by Reaumur, he 
concluded that the mother-fly, above described, de- 
posits her eggs in the flesh of the larger animals, for 
which purpose she is furnished with an ovipositor of 
singular mechanism. We have seen that the ovi- 
positors of the gall-flies ( Cynips ) are rolled up within 
the body of the insect somewhat like the spring of a 
watch, so that they can be thrust out to more than 
double their apparent length. To effect the same 
purpose, the ovipositor of the ox-fly lengthens, by 
a series of sliding tubes, precisely like an opera- 
glass. There are four of these tubes, as may be 
seen by pressing the belly of the fly till they come 



* Reaumur, Mem. iv. 505. 






into view. Like other ovipositors of this sort, they 
are composed of a horny substance; but the terminal 
piece is very different indeed from the same part in 
the gall-flies, the tree-hoppers ( Cicada ), and the 
ichneumons, being composed of five points, three of 
which are longer than the other two, and at first 
sight not unlike a JLeur-de-lys , though, upon nar- 
rower inspection, they may be discovered to termi- 
nate in curved points, somewhat like the claw of a 
cat. The two shorter pieces are also pointed, but 
not curved ; and by the union of the five, a tube is 
composed for the passage of the eggs. 




Ovipositor of the brecze-fy, greatly magnified, with a claw and part 
of the tube, distinct. 

It would be necessary, Reaumur confesses, to see 
the fly employ this instrument to understand in what 
manner it acts, though he is disposed to consider it 






fit for boring’ through the hides of cattle. “ When- 
ever I have succeeded,” he adds, “ in seeing these 
insects at work, they have usually shown that they 
proceeded quite differently from what I had imagined ; 
but unfortunately I have never been able to see one 
of them pierce the hide of a cow under my eyes 
Mr. Bracey Clark, taking another view of the 
matter, is decidedly of opinion that the fly does not 
pierce the skin of cattle with its ovipositor at all, but 
merely glues its eggs to the hairs, while the grubs, 
when hatched, eat their way under the skin. If this 
be the fact, as is not improbable, the three curved 
pieces of the ovipositor, instead of acting, as Reaumur 
imagined, like a centre-bit, will only serve to prevent 
the eggs from falling till they are firmly glued to the 
hair, the opening formed by the two shorter points 
permitting this to be effected. This account of the 
matter is rendered more plausible, from Reaumur’s 
statement that the deposition of the egg is not at- 
tended by much pain, unless, as he adds, some 
very sensible nervous fibres have been wounded. 
According to this view, we must not estimate the 
pain produced by the thickness of the instrument ; 
for the sting of a wasp or a bee, although very con- 
siderably smaller than the ovipositor of the ox-fly, 
causes a very pungent pain. It is, in the latter case, 
the poison infused by the sting, rather than the 
wound, which occasions the pain; and Vallisnieri is 
of opinion that the ox-fly emits some acrid matter 
along with her eggs, but there is no proof of this 
beyond conjecture. 

It ought to be remarked, however, that cattle have 
very thick hides, which are so far from being acutely 
sensitive of pain, that in countries where they are put 
to draw ploughs and waggons, they find a whip 



* Mem, iv. 538. 





ineffectual to drive them, and have to use a goad, in 
form of an iron needle, at the end of a stick. Were 
the pain inflicted by the fly very acute, it would find 
it next to impossible to lay thirty or forty eggs without 
being killed by the strokes of the ox’s tail ; for though 
Vallisnieri supposes that the fly is shrewd enough 
to choose such places as the tail cannot reach, Reau- 
mur saw a cow repeatedly flap its tail upon a part 
full of the gall-bumps ; and in another instance he 
saw a heifer beat away a party of common flies from 
a part where there were seven or eight gall-bumps. 
He concludes, therefore, with much plausibility, that 
these two beasts would have treated the ox-flies in 
the same way, if they had given them pain when de- 
positing their eggs. 

The extraordinary effects produced upon cattle, on 
the appearance of one of these flies, would certainly 
lead us to conclude, that the pain inflicted is excru- 
ciating. Most of our readers may recollect to have 
seen, in the summer months, a whole herd of cattle 
start off across a field in full gallop, as if they were 
racing, — their movements indescribably awkward — 
their tails being poked out behind them as straight 
and stiff as a post, and their necks stretched to their 
utmost length. All this consternation has been 
known, from the earliest times, to be produced by the 
fly we are describing. Virgil gives a correct and 
lively picture of it in his Georgies *, of which the fol- 
lowing is a translation, a little varied from Trapp : — 

Round mount Alburnus, green with shady oaks, 

And in the groves of Silarus, there flies 

* Est lucos Silari circa illicibusque virentem 
Plurimus Alburnum volitans, cui nomen asilo 
Romanum est, CEstrum Graii vertere vocantes, 

Asper, acerba sonans; quo tota exterrita sylvis 
Diffugiunt armenta; furit mugitibus aether 
Concussus, sylvaeque et sicci ri pi Tanagri. 

Georg, lib. HI. 1. 146, 






An insect pest (named CEstrus by the Greeks, 

By us Asilus ): fierce with jarring hum 
It darts towards the herd, driving them terrified 
From glade to glade, while the far sky resounds, 

And woods and rivers’ banks echo their lowings. 

Had we not other instances to adduce, of similar 
terror caused among sheep, deer, and horses, by 
insects of the same genus, which are ascertained not 
to penetrate the skin, we should not have hesitated 
to conclude that Vallisnieri and Reaumur are right, 
and Mr. Bracey Clark wrong. In the strictly similar 
instance of Rein-deer fly ( CEstrus tarandi, Linn.), 
we have the high authority of Linnaeus for the fact, 
that it lays its eggs upon the skin. 

“ I remarked,” he says, “ with astonishment how 
greatly the reindeer are incommoded in hot weather, 
insomuch that they cannot stand still a minute, no 
not a moment, without changing their posture, start- 
ing, puffing and blowing continually, and all on 
account of a little fly. Even though amongst a herd 
of perhaps five hundred reindeer there were not 
above ten of those flies, every one of the herd trem- 
bled and kept pushing its neighbour about. The 
fly, meanwhile, was trying every means to get at 
them ; but it no sooner touched any part of their 
bodies, than they made an immediate effort to shake 
it off. I caught one of these insects as it was flying 
along with its tail protruded, which had at its extremity 
a small linear orifice perfectly white. The tail itself 
consisted of four or five tubular joints, slipping into 
each other like a pocket spying-glass, which this fly, 
like others, has a power of contracting at pleasure*.” 

In another work he is still more explicit. “ This 
well-known fly,” he says, “ hovers the whole day 
over the back of the reindeer, with its tail protruded 



* Linuseus, Lachesis Lapponica, July 19th. 







and a little bent, upon the point of which it holds a 
small white egg, scarcely so large as a mustard-seed, 
and when it has placed itself in a perpendicular posi- 
tion, it drops its egg, which rolls down amongst the 
hair to the skin, where it is hatched by the natural 
heat and perspiration of the reindeer, and the grub 
eats its way slowly under the skin, causing a bump 
as large as an acorn*.” The male and female of 
the reindeer breeze-fly are figured in the Library of 
Entertaining Knowledge, Menageries, Yol. I., p. 405. 

There is one circumstance which, though it appears 
to us to be of some importance in the question, has 
been either overlooked or misrepresented in books. 
“ While the female fly,” says Kirby and Spence, “ is 
performing the operation of oviposition, the animal 
attempts to lash her off as it does other flies, with 
its tail t; ” though this is not only at variance with 
their own words in the page but one preceding, 
where they most accurately describe “ the herd with 
their tails in the air, or turned upon their backs, or 
stiffly stretched out in the direction of the spine 
but with the two facts mentioned above from 
Reaumur, as well as with common observation. If 
the ox then do not attempt to lash off the breeze-fly, 
but runs with its tail stiffly extended, it affords a 
strong presumption, that the fly terrifies him by 
her buzzing (asjier, acerba sojiansf rather than 
pains him by piercing his hide ; her buzz, like the 
rattle of the rattle-snake, being instinctively under- 
stood, and intended, it may be, to prevent an over 
population, by rendering it difficult to deposit the 
eggs. 

The horse breeze-fly (G aster ophilus equi, Leach), 
which produces the maggots well known by the name 
of botts in horses, is ascertained beyond a doubt to 

* Linnaeus, Flora Lapponica. P. 378, ed. Lond. 1792. 

•}• Kirby and Spence, Introd. i, 151. + Ibid. p. 149. 







deposit her eggs upon the hair, and as insects of the 
same genus almost invariably proceed upon similar 
principles, however much they may vary in minute 
particulars, it may be inferred with justice, that the 
breeze-flies which produce galls, do the same. The 
description given by Mr. Bracey Clark, of the pro- 
ceedings of the horse breeze-fly, is exceedingly in- 
teresting. 

“ When the female has been impregnated, and her 
eggs sufficiently matured, she seeks among the 
horses a subject for her purpose, and approaching 
him on the wing, she carries her body nearly upright 
in the air, and her tail, which is lengthened for the 
purpose *, curved inwards and upwards : in this way 
she approaches the part where she designs to de- 
posit the egg ; and suspending herself for a few 
seconds before it, suddenly darts upon it and leaves 
the egg adhering to the hair ; she hardly appears to 
settle, but merely touches the hair with the egg held 
out on the 'projected point of the abdomen *. The 
egg is made to adhere by means of a glutinous 
liquor secreted with it. She then leaves the horse 
at a small distance, and prepares a second egg, and 
poising herself before the part, deposits it in the same 
way. The liquor dries, and the egg becomes firmly 
glued to the hair ; this is repeated by these flies till 
four or five hundred eggs are sometimes placed on 
one horse.” 

Mr. Clark farther tells us, that the fly is careful to 
select a part of the skin which the horse can easily 
reach with his tongue, such as the inside of the 
knee, or the side and back part of the shoulder. It 

* The3e circumstances afford, we think, a complete answer to 
the query of Kirby and Spence, — “ There can be little doubt, (or 
else what is the use of such an apparatus ?) that it bores a hole 
in the skin.” — Introd., i. 162, 2nd. edit. 



A



was at first conjectured, that the horse licks off the 
eggs thus deposited, and that they are by this means 
conveyed into its stomach ; but Mr. Clark says, “ I 
do not find this to be the case, or at least only by 
accident ; for when they have remained on the hair 
four or five days, they become ripe, after which time 
the slightest application of warmth and moisture is 
sufficient to bring forth, in an instant, the latent larva. 
At this time, if the tongue of the horse touches the 
egg, its operculum is thrown open, and a small, 
active worm is produced, which readily adheres to 
the moist surface of the tongue, and is thence con- 
veyed with the food to the stomach.” He adds, 
that “ a horse which has no ova deposited on him 
may yet have botts, by performing the friendly office 
of licking another horse that has The irrita- 
tions produced by common flies ( Anthomyice me - 
teorica:, Mf.igen), are alleged as the incitement to 
licking. 

The circumstance, however, of most importance to 
our purpose, is the agitation and terror produced 
both by this fly, and by another horse breeze-fly 
( Gasterophilus hcemorrhoidalis, Leach), which de- 
posits its eggs upon the lips of the horse, as the 
sheep breeze-fly ( CEstrus ovis ) does on that of the 
sheep. The first of these is described by Mr. Clark 
as “ very distressing to the animal, from the excessive 
titillation it occasions ; for he immediately after rubs 
his mouth against the ground, his fore-feet, or some- 
times against a tree, with great emotion ; till finding 
this mode of defence insufficient, he quits the spot in 
a rage, and endeavours to avoid it by galloping away 
to a distant part of the field, and if the fly still con- 
tinues to follow and teaze him, his last resource is in 
the water, where the insect is never observed to pur- 






* Linn. Trans, iii, 305. 






sue him. These flies appear sometimes to hide them- 
selves in the grass, and as the horse stoops to graze 
they dart upon the mouth or lips, and are always 
observed to poise themselves during a few seconds 
in the air, while the egg is preparing on the extended 
'point of the abdomen*.” 

The moment the second fly just mentioned touches 
the nose of a sheep, the animal shakes its head and 
strikes the ground violently with its fore-feet, and at 
the same time holding its nose to the earth, it runs 
away looking about on every side to see if the flies 
pursue. A sheep will also smell the grass as it goes, 
lest a fly should be lying in wait, and if one be de- 
tected, it runs off in terror. As it will not, like a horse 
or an ox, take refuge in the water, it has recourse to a 
rut or dry dusty road, holding its nose close to the 
ground, thus rendering it difficult for the fly to get 
at the nostril. 

When the egg of the ox-breeze fly ( Hypoderma 




a The belly of the grub, b Its back, c The tail of the grub, 
greatly magnified, d The bump, or gall, having its external 
aperture filled with the tail of the grub. 

* Linn. Trans, iii, 305. 







bovis , Latr.) is hatched, it immediately (if Mr. 
Bracey Clark be correct) burrows into the skin ; 
while, according to Reaumur, it is hatched there. 
At all events, the grub is found in a bump on the 
animal’s back, resembling a gall on a tree, — “ a 
place,” says Reaumur, “ where food is found in 
abundance, where it is protected from the weather, 
where it enjoys at all times an equal degree of 
warmth, and where it finally attains maturity 
When in an advanced stage, the bumps appear much 
like the swellings produced upon the forehead by a 
smart blow. These, with the grubs, are represented 
in the foregoing figure, and also at page 412. 

Every bump, according to Reaumur, has in its 
inside a cavity, which is a lodging proportionate to 
the size of the insect. The bump and cavity also 
increase in proportion to the growth of the grub. It 
is not until about the middle of May that these bumps 
can be seen full grown. Owing to particular cir- 
cumstances, they do not all attain an equal size. The 
largest of them are sixteen or seventeen lines in dia- 
meter at their base, and about an inch high; but they 




Fly, maggot , and grub of the Ox-breeze, with a microscopic view of the 

maggot. 



* Mem, iv. 540. 








are scarcely perceptible before the beginning, or dur- 
ing the course of the winter. 

It is commonly upon young cattle, such, namely, 
as are two or three years old, that the greatest num- 
ber of bumps is found ; it being rare to observe them 
upon very old animals. The fly seems to be well 
aware that such skins will not oppose too much re- 
sistance, and seems to know, also, that tender flesh 
is the most proper for supplying good nourishment 
to its progeny. “ And why,” asks Reaumur, “ should 
not the instinct which conducts it to confide its eggs 
to the flesh of certain species only, lead it to prefer 
the flesh of animals of the same species which is most 
preferable ? ” The number of bumps which are found 
upon a beast is equal to the number of eggs which 
have been deposited in its flesh ; or, to speak more 
correctly, to the number of eggs which have suc- 
ceeded, for apparently all are not fertile ; but this 
number is very different upon different cattle. Upon 




Bumps or wurblcs produced on cattle by the Ox-breeze. 







one cow only three or four bumps may be observed, 
while upon another there will appear from thirty to 
forty. They are not always placed on the same parts, 
nor arranged in the same manner : commonly, they 
are near the spine, but sometimes upon or near the 
thighs and shoulders. Sometimes they are at remote 
distances from each other ; at other times they are 
so near that their circumferences meet. In certain 
places, three or four tumours may be seen touching 
each other ; and more than a dozen sometimes occur 
arranged as closely together as possible. 

It is very essential to the grub that the hold of the 
tumour should remain constantly open ; for by this 
aperture a communication with the air necessary for 
respiration is preserved ; and the grub is thence 
placed in the most favourable position for receiving 
air. Its spiracles for respiration, like those of many 
other grubs, are situated immediately upon the pos- 
terior extremity of the body. Now, being almost 
always placed in such a situation as to have this part 
above, or upon a level with the external aperture, it 
is enabled to respire freely *. 

We have not so many examples of galls of this 
kind as we have of vegetable galls ; and when we 
described the surprising varieties of the latter, we did 
not perceive that it was essential to the insects inha- 
biting them to preserve a communication with the 
external air: in the galls of trees, openings expressly 
designed or kept free for the admission of air are 
never observed. Must the grub, then, which inhabits 
the latter have less need of respiring air than the 
grub of the breeze-flies in a flesh gall ? Without 
doubt, not; but the apertures by which the air is 
admitted to the inhabitants of the woody gall, al- 
though they may escape our notice, in consequence 

* Reaumur, n. 549. 





of their minuteness, are not, in fact, less real. We 
know that however careful we may be in inserting 1 a 
cork into a glass, the mercury with which it is tilled 
is not sheltered from the action of the air, which 
weighs upon the cork ; we know that the air passes 
through, and acts upon the mercury in the tube. 
The air can also, in the same way, penetrate through 
the obstruction of a gall of wood, though it have no 
perceptible opening or crack ; but the air cannot pass 
in this manner so readily through the skins and mem- 
branes of animals. 

In order to see the interior of the cavity of an 
animal gall, Reaumur opened several, either with 
a razor or a pair of scissors ; the operation, however, 
cannot fail to be painful to the cow, and consequently 
it renders it impatient under the process. The grub 
being confined in a tolerably large fistulous ulcer, a 
part of the cavity must necessarily be filled with pus 
or matter. The bump is a sort of cautery, which 
has been opened by the insect, as issues are made by 
caustic : the grub occupies this issue, and prevents it 
from closing. If the pus or matter which is in the ca- 
vity, and that which is daily added to it, had no means 
of escaping, each tumour would become a consider- 
able abscess, in which the grub would perish : but the 
hole of the bump, which admits the entrance of the 
air, permits the pus or matter to escape ; that pus 
frequently matts the hairs together which are above 
the small holes, and this drying around the holes, 
acquires a consistency, and forms in the interior of 
the opening a kind of ring. This matter appears to 
be the only aliment allowed for the grub, for there is 
no appearance that it lives, like the grubs of flesh- 
flies, upon putrescent meat. Mandibles, indeed, simi- 
lar to those with which other grubs break their food, 
are altogether wanting. A beast which has thirty, 
forty, or more of these bumps upon its back, would 







be in a condition of great pain and suffering, terrible 
indeed in the extreme, if its flesh were torn and de- 
voured by as many large grubs ; but there is every 
appearance that they do not at all afflict, or only afflict 
it with little pain. For this reason cattle most covered 
with bumps are not considered by the farmer as in- 
jured by the presence of the fly, which generally se- 
lects those in the best condition. 

A fly, evidently of the same family with the pre- 
ceding, is described in Bruce’s Travels, under the 
name of zimb, as burrowing during its grub state in 
the hides of the elephant, the rhinoceros, the camel, 
and cattle. “ It resembles,” he says, “ the gad-fly in 
England, its motion being more sudden and rapid 
than that of a bee. There is something peculiar in the 
sound or buzzing of this insect; it is a jarring noise 
together with a humming, which as soon as it is 
heard, all the cattle forsake their food and run 
wildly about the plain, till they die, worn out with 
fatigue, fright, and hunger. I have found,” he adds, 
“ some of these tubercles upon almost every ele- 
phant and rhinoceros that I have seen, and attribute 
them to this cause. When the camel is attacked by 
this fly, his body, head, and legs, break out into 
large bosses, which swell, break and putrefy, to the 
certain destruction of the creature That camels 
die under such symptoms, we do not doubt ; but we 
should not without more minutely accurate observa- 
tion trace all this to the breeze-fly. 

MM. Humboldt and Bonpland discovered, in 
South America, a species probably of the same 
genus, which attacks man himself. The perfect in- 
sect is about the size of our common house fly, 
(Musca domesticcS), and the bump formed by the 
grub, which is usually on the belly, is similar to that 



* Bruce’s Travels, i. 5, and v. 191. 



 



caused by the ox breeze-fly. It requires six months 
to come to maturity, and if it is irritated it eats 
deeper into the flesh, sometimes causing fatal inflam- 
mations. 

Grub Parasite in the Snail. 

During the summer of 1829, we discovered in the 
hole of a garden-post, at Blackheath, one of the 
larger grey snail shells ( Helix aspersa , Muller), 
with three white soft-bodied grubs, burrowing in the 
body of the snail. They evidently, from their appear- 
ance, belonged to some species of beetle, and we 
carefully preserved them in order to watch their 
economy. It appeared to us that they had attacked 
the snail in its strong hold, while it was laid up tor- 
pid for the winter ; for more than half of the body 
was already devoured. They constructed for them- 
selves little cells attached to the inside of the shell 
and composed of a sort of fibrous matter, having no 
distant resemblance to shag tobacco, both in form 
and smell, and which could be nothing else than the 
remains of the snail’s body. Soon after we took 
them, appearing to have devoured all that remained 
of the poor snail, we furnished them with another, 
which they devoured in the same manner. They 
formed a cocoon of the same fibrous materials during 
the autumn, and in the end of October appeared in 
their perfect form, turning out to be the Drilus fla- 
vescens the grub of which was first discovered in 
France in 1 824. The time of their appearance, it may 
be remarked, coincides with the period when snails 
become torpid*. 



* J. R. 






The subject of Insect Architecture, to which this 
volume is devoted, forms only one division, though a 
most interesting and important one, of that branch of 
natural history which relates to insects. It presents 
some of the most striking views of their economy ; 
and, as we have endeavoured to render the exam- 
ples of extraordinary instinct with which it abounds 
obvious and familiar to every reader, it precedes 
somewhat naturally a more minute account of the 
physiological part of the science of Entomology, and 
of the benefits and injuries produced to man by in- 
sects, in the respective stages of their existence. The 
present volume is complete in itself ; and we hope 
that few will peruse it without having their attention 
awakened, and their curiosity gratified. It is in- 
tended, however, to follow it up by a second volume, 
to be entitled Insect Transformations. The same 
mode of illustration will be adopted in this projected 
work as in the present volume ; and it is expected 
that the two will form a tolerably complete view, for 
all popular objects, of the Natural History of Insects. 



ILLUSTRATIONS. 



Page 

1 Eggs of Insects, magnified 19 

2 Larvae, Grubs, Caterpillars, or Maggots .. .. . 20 

3 Pupae, or Chrysalides . 21 

4 Insects in the imago or perfect state 22 

5 Mason-wasp . .. .. .. .. .. . 26 

6 Jaws of mason- wasp, magnified 27 

7 Cuckoo-fly .. .. . .. 29 

S Mason-wasp’s nest and cocoons .. . .. .. ib. 

9 Mason- wasp .. .. .. .. .. .. ib. 

10 Nests, &c. of mason-wasps .. . . . .. 31 

11 Mason-bee .. .. 34 

12 Exterior wall of mason-bee’s nest .. . . ib. 

13 Cells of mason-bee’s nest .. .. .. .. .. 35 

14 Varieties in cells of mason-bee’s nests, three figures .. 41 

15 Mason-bee and nest .. .. .. . .. .. 43 

Id Cell of mining-bee . . . . . . . . . . . . ib. 

17 Nests of carpenter-bees, four figures . 49 

18 Carpenter-bee .. .. .. .. .. .. ib. 

19 Teeth of carpenter-bee, magnified .. .. .. . ib. 

20 Nests of carpenter-wasps, two figures .. .. .. 53 

21 Carpenter-wasp ib. 

22 Cocoon of a carpenter-wasp .. .. .• .. ib. 

23 Rose-leaf-cutter-bees, and nest lined with rose-leaves .. 61 

24 Carder-bees heckling moss for their nests .. . . 66 

25 Exterior of the carder bee’s nest .. .. .. .. ib. 

26 Breeding cells of the carder-bee .. . .. .. 68 

27 Interior of carder bee’s nest, two figures .. .. „ . 69 

28 Section of social-wasp’s nest . . .. .. 76 

29 Suspension rod of social-wasp’s nest .. 77 

30 Portion of external crust of social- wasp’s nest .. .. ib. 

31 Hornet’s nest in its first stage .. .. .. .. 80 

32 Singular wasp’s nest .. . .. .. .. .. 82 

33 Wasp’s cells attached to a branch . . . . . . . . 83 

34 Nest of the card-maker-wasp .. . « .. .. 88 

35 Part of a honeycomb and bees at work .. . .. 89 

36 Worker-bee, magnified .. .. .. .. .. 103 

37 Abdomen of wax-working-bee . . . . . . . . . . 104 

38 Structure of the legs of the bee for carrying propolis, &c. 110 

39 Curtain of wax- workers, secreting wax 114 

40 Wax-worker laying the foundation of the first cell . . 117 

41 Curtain of wax-workers .. .. .. .. .. .. 119 

42 Arrangement of cells of hive bees .. .. .. .. 122 

43 Foundation-wall enlarged and the cells commenced .. 125 

44 Ovipositors, with files, of the tree-hopper, magnified .. 150 

45 Excavations for eggs of tree-hopper, with lid raised .. 151 

46 Ovipositor of saw-fly protruded from its sheath, magnified 153 

47 Ovipositor saw of saw-fly, magnified .. .. .. 154 

48 Portion of saw-fly’s comb-toothed rasp, and saw .. 156 

49 Nest of eggs of saw-fly .. . 158 

50 Lilac-tree moth .. .. . .. .. 160 

51 Nest of a lilac-leaf-roller 161 


52. Another nest of lilac-leaf-roller .. .. . . 162 

53 Small green oak-moth .. .. .. .. . .. ib. 

54 Nests of oak-leaf-rolling caterpillars .. .. .. 163 

55 Nest of the nettle-leaf-rolling caterpillars .. .. .. 165 

56 Leaf-rolling caterpillars of the sorrel .. .. .. 168 

57 Nests of the hesperia malva, with caterpillar, chrysalis, &c. 169 

58 Nest of willow-leaf-roller . .. .. .. .. 170 

59 Ziczac caterpillar and nest .. . .. .. 172 

60 Cypress-spurge caterpillars .. . .. .. .. 179 

61 Cocoon of ditto on a branch .. .. . . ib. 

62 Small caterpillar and moss cell of the same .. .. 183 

63 Leaf nest of the caddis-worm .. .. .. . 185 

64 Reed nest of ditto .. .. .. .. .. .. ib. 

65 Aquatic nest of ditto .. .. . .. .. 186 

66 Shell nest of ditto, five figures .. .. .. .. ib. 

67 Stone nest of ditto .. .. .. .. .. .. 187 

68 Sand nest of ditto, balanced with a stone .. .. . ib. 

69 Nest of ditto, balanced with straws . .. .. 188 

70 Caterpillar of goat-motli in a willow tree .. .. .. 189 

71 Winter nest of the goat-caterpillar .. .. .. 190 

72 Nest of goat-moth, raised to shew the pupa .. .. . 191 

73 Eggs of the puss-moth .. .. .. .. .. 192 

74 Rudiments of the cell of the puss-moth .. .. .. 194 

75 Cell built by the larva of the puss-moth .. .. .. 195 

76 Ichneumon .. .. .. .. .. . . .. ib. 

77 Magnified cells of Pyralis strigulalis .. .. .. 198 

78 Nests of earth-mason caterpillars, two figures . .. 201 

79 Earth-mason caterpillars’ nests, caterpillar and moth .. 202 

80 Earth-mason caterpillars’ nests, moth, &c. seven figures .. 205 

81 Nests of the grubs of ephemera, two figures .. .. 206 

82 Grub of ephemera .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ib. 

83 Nests of ephemera in holes of cossus .. .. „ . 207 

84 Grub of the ant-lion, magnified .. .. .. .. 211 

S5 Trap of the ant-lion in different stages, two figures . . ib. 

86 Ant-lions’ pitfalls in an experimenting box .. 212 

87 Cases, &c., of the clothes-moth, and perfect moths .. .. 221 

88 Caterpillar’s tent upon the leaf of an elm .. 224 

89 Tents of the caterpillar in different stages .. . 226 

90 Tents and caterpillars, natural size, and magnified . 228 

91 Branch of the willow with seed spikes .. .. .. 232 

92 Muff tents made of the above cotton .. .. .. ib. 

93 Muff-making caterpillar .. .. .. .. .. .. ib. 

94 Leaf of the monthly rose mined by caterpillars . . 234 

95 Leaf of the dew-berry bramble mimed .. . .. .. 236 

96 Leaf of the primrose mined .. .. .. .. .. 237 

97 Capricorn beetle rounding off the bark of a tree .. .. 240 

98 Mole cricket, with outline of one of its hands . .. 243 

99 Nest of the mole-cricket .. .. .. . .. .. 244 

100 Acrida verrucivora depositing her eggs 246 

101 Artificial hive for observing the mason-ants .. . .. 269 

102 Vertical section of mason-ant’s nest .. .. .. 270 

103 Contrivance of mason-ants to strengthen the buildingof their nest 271 

104 Artificial hive for the wood-ant .. .. .. .. . 276 

105 Portion of a tree, with chambers, &c., chiselled out by jet-ants 281 

106 Warrior-ant in the winged state .. .. . ,, 291 

107 White ant queen distended with eggs .. .. . 295 

108 Covered-way and nest of the termites arborum .. . 300 



109 Section of the liill-nest of the termites bellicosi . .. 300 

110 Hill-nest of the termites bellicosi .. .. .. .. ib. 

1 1 1^ Turret-nests of white-ants .. .. .. .. .. 301 

112 Leg and pro-leg of a caterpillar, greatly magnified .. 307 

113 Caterpillar of the goat- moth .. .. .. .. .. 308 

114 Interior structure of the cossus .. .. .. .. 309 

115 Side view of the silk tube .. .. .. .. .. 310 

116 Section of silk tube magnified .. .. .. .. ib. 

117 Labium or lower lip of cossus .. .. .. .. .. 311 

118 Cocoons of the emperor-moth .. .. .. .. 321 

119 Cocoon of arctia villica .. .. .. .. .. .. 324 

120 Net-work cocoon .. .. .. .. .. .. ib. 

121 Nest of puss-moth, inclosing five cocoons .. .. .. 326 

122 Winter nest of the social caterpillars of the brown-tail moth 330 

123 Winter nests of Porthesia chrysorrhaea. . .. .. .. 331 

124 Pendulous leaf nests .. .. .. .. .. .. 332 

125 Nest and order of marching of the processionary caterpillars 334 

126 Garden spider suspended by a thread from its spinneret .. 336 

127 Spinneret of a spider magnified to show the spinnerules 337 

128 Single thread of a spider greatly magnified .. .. .. ,338 

129 Attached end of a spider’s thread magnified .. .. 339 

130 Geometric net of the garden-spider .. .. .. .. 359 

131 Nests of the mason-spider .. .. .. .. .. 362 

132 The spider, mygale caementaria . .. .. .. .. ib. 

133 The eyes, magnified .. .. .. .. .. .. ib. 

134 Parts of the foot and claw, magnified .. .. .. .. ib. 

135 Triple-clawed foot of a spider, magnified .. .. .. 367 

136 Small berry-shaped galls of the oak-leaf .. .. .. 370 

137 Ovipositor of gall-fly, greatly magnified .. .. .. 372 

138 Gall-fly, and mechanism of ovipositor, greatly magnified 373 

139 Bedeguar gall of the rose, produced by Cynips rosae .. 376 

140 One of the bristles of the bedeguar of the rose, magnified 377 

141 Artichoke gall of the oak-bud, with gall-fly .. .. .. 378 

142 Leafy gall of dyers’s broom 380 

143 Semi-gall of the hawthorn. . .. .. .. .. . 382 

144 Woolly gall of the oak .. .. .. .. .. .. 383 

145 Oak-apple galls, one cut open to shew the vessels .. .. 384 

146 Root-galls of the oak .. .. .. .. .. .. 385 

147 Woody-gall on a willow branch .. .. .. .. .. 386 

148 Currant-gall of the catkins of the oak .. .. .. 3S7 

149 Gall of the hawthorn weevil .. .. .. .. .. 3S9 

150 A plant louse, magnified .. .. 391 

151 Galls produced on the leaves of the poplar, with the various 

forms of the insect, ten figures .. .. . .. 393 

152 Leaf of the currant-bush, bulged out by the Aphis ribes .. 395 

153 Shoot of the lime-tree contorted by the Aphis tiliie . . 396 

154 Pseudo-gall of the bramble .. .. .. .. .. 397 

155 Pseudo-galls of the hawthorn .. .. .. .. 399 

156 Pseudo-gall on the Scotch fir .. .. ib. 

15 7 Ovipositor of the breeze- fly .. .. .. .. 403 

158 Grub of the breeze- fly, four figures .. .. .. .. 410 

159 Fly, maggot, and grub of the ox breeze-fly .. .. 411 

160 Bumps or wurbles produced on cattle . . .. .. 412 



William Clowes, Stamford Street. 








SECTION I EGGS OF INSECTS. 


CHAPTER I. — Introduction 

All insects come from eggs 

Curious experiment of Kircher 

Virpfil’s receipt for niakm^t a swarm of bees 

Origin of these ancient errors . 

Bees in Sampson’s lion accounted for . 

Fancies of Robinet and Darwin . , 

Theory of spontaneous generation 

Popular errors respecting 

Dr. Oood’s account of .... 

No insect eggs afloat in the air 

Specitic gravity of insect eggs . , , 

Theoretical accounts of honey dew . , 

Accounted for by exiieriments 

Instantaneons appearance of insects 

The “ worm i’ the bud ” traced to its egg 

Insectiferous winds ..... 

Supposed showers of frogs, snails, &c. . 

Diffusion of the seeds of plants 

Insects jet out their eggs from fear 

Origin of mosses on walls 

Origin of mould in the heart of an apple 



Physiology of insects’ eggs  

Theory of colours meant for concealment  

Disproved in the case of the eggs of birds  

Illustrated from insect eggs 

Cause of the colours in eggs 

Structure of insects’ eggs. 

Egg*' of ants, spiders, and glow-worms 

Form of insect eggs .

Cause of the oval form in birds’ eggs 

Sciiljitu re ot the eggs of insects 

Curious appendages to eggs  

Eggs with i^oot-s talks 

Number of insect eggs, and their fecundity, compared with 
Other animals 





Maternal care of insects respecting their eggs 

Intitanced in a carpenter bee (Chelostoma) . 
Ichneumons compared to the cnckuo 
Proceeding of a solitary bee (^Jlalictut) • 
Stratagems of a solitary wasp ( Cerccris} 
Ovipositor of an ichneumon (Pimpla) . . 

Experiments of Reaumur . . 

Common mistakes of Naturalists 
Parasite of the cabbage caterpillar (Pontia) 

Egg parasites 

Parasites of the aphides 

Singular parasite of the cork-roach

Rare parasites of bees and wasps 
Tact of insects in discovering food for their young 
Sometimes select exotic plants  
Instanced in a leaf-ininer (Tcphrttis f) 

Solitary and gregarious caterpillars 
Life-boat of eggs constructed by the gnat 

Experiments upon it 

Infallibility of instinct questioned  

Mistakes of instinct 








Hybernation of insects’ eggs 

Proceedings of the gypsey moth compared to the 

Singular groups of eggs 

Protection of eggs from heat 

Anal tweezers of moths 

Eggs in spiral groups 

Arched form of the lackey moth’s eggs 
Hybernation of the eggs of aphides 

Singular protection of the eggs of cocci  

Coccus of the Hawthorn 
Shell-formed coccus of the currant  
Hybernation of spiders’ eggs 

Curious spiders’ nests 

Eggs of the va|x)urer moth on its cocoon 
Effects of cold on insects’ eggs .... 
Observations of John Hunter 
Insects not killed by severe frosts 


eider 


duck 




Hatching of insect eggs 

Structure of the eggs of birds 

Insects do not hatch their eggs 

Anomalous instance of the earwig 

Earwigs eaunot get into the brain 

Partial hatching by spiders  

Experiments upon the wolf spider by Swammerdam and 

Bonnet 

Eggs hatched before they are laid  

Ovo- VI VI paious insects  

Coll of larvw in the Inidy of a blow-fly 

Aphides sometimes produce eggs, sometimes young 

Care taken of these eggs by ants 






Cocco-viviparous flies (Hipjpo6o*cida?) 

Effects of neat upon eggs

Management of silk-worms’ eggs 

Effects of light on eggs  

Some insect eggs increase in size  

Growlh of the eggs of ants 

Dcvelopement of the eggs of spiders 

Spiders live long without food  

Insects probably gnaw through their egg-shells 

Valves of insect eggs

Period of hatching influenced by temperature 




Structure of caterpillars, grubs, and maggots. 

Meanings of these terms ..... 

Supposed transmutation of plants into animals 

Observations of Unger upon this 

Remarks of Bory Sf. Vincent .... 

Supposed formative power ot the blood . 

Embryo butterfly in the caterpillar . . 

Experiments to shew this .... 

Dissections of the buds of plants .... 

Dilterence of plants from insects • . 

Internal structure of caterpillars .... 

Breathing. tubes and formation of their blood 
Colours of caterpillars not intended for concealment 
ImitHtive forms of caterpillars .... 

Walking-leaf insect 

Caterpillars in form of branches 
Conspicuously coloured caterpillars 

Butterflies supposed to be coloured like flowers . 
Singular forms of caterpillars 

Forms of water-grubs

Breathing organs in wafer larvae 
Water uorins {Nam) may be mistaken for larvm . 
Syringe for respiration in a wafer larva , 

Curious mask of the same larva 

Dubt mask ol (he wolf bug {Kcduriui) 



Growth, moulting, strength, defence, and hybernation of larvae 
Progressive increase of the silk-Avonii ... 
Compared with the grovvth of buds .... 
Process of moulting or casting the skin ... 
Accidents interrupt this process. .... 

Reds, a disorder .similar to renal gravel. . 

Position of the hairs in moulting .... 
Casting of the interior lining of the stomach, Scv. . 

JMoiiltmg of birds 

Cast skins sometimes devoured . . . . . 

Mis-statement of Goldsmith 

Contrivances for escape from confinement 
Muscular strength of insects 





Pape 

Fleas made to draw miniatare coaches 

Numerous muscles of the 

Its wonderful strength 

Mis-statements respecting the strength of insects 

Means of escape by spinning 

Defensive hairs and spines of caterpillars 

Kxorementitious covering of some larvie 

Origin of the froth on plants called 

Winter covering of caterpillars 

Fat a probable defence against cold 



Voracity of caterpillars, grubs, and maggots 

Increase of weight in the silk-worm in thirty days 

Remarkable change in the capacity of the stomach 

Instances of human voracity  

Jaws or luaiidiblcs of larvm  

Caterpillars  

Jihglit caused by an oak-leaf- roller

Ravages of the buff-till 

Kncauiping caterpillars of the ermine moths  

Experinents with these 

Extraordinary ravages of the brown-tail moth  

Strange enactment of the J’arliamenl of Pans
Cause of the abundance of caterpillar in particular years 

Alarm caused 111 France by the gamma moth

Calculation of their fecundity  

Cabbage caterpillars prefer weeds

Disappearance of the black-veined white butterfly 

Ravages of the caterpillar of the goobeberry saw-fly 

Similar ravages emninitled on other trees

Slug worm of North America 

Turnip fly erroneously fancied to come across the sea to Norfolk  
Effects of JEgeria* on currant and poplar trees  

Destruction of gram by Euplue.ami and Tineae 

Bee hives injured by (iallariPB 

Caterpillar which feeds on chocolate 

. 

Voracity of grubs 225 

Grill) of the cockchafer or may-bug 

Account of Us transformation, N.C. 
Methods of destroying 

Wire worm the grub of Heiuirhi pus 

Probable mistake respecting the destruction of wheat 

Pea beetle of North America  

Corn weevil

Weal worm, the gnil) of 'J’enebrio molitor  

Tabby moth caterpillar devours butter and fat  

Intestinal worms  

Mistakes of Linnmus, Dr. Barry, and Dr. J. P. Frank 

Experiment of M.Dcslonchainjis 

Extraordinary i-asc of A1 ary iiiordan, by Dr. Pickells 

Authenticity of this case proved

Fruit grubs

Nut weevil audits transformatious  





Apple-bud weevil  

Voracity of Calosoma  

Hayed pfallenes of a bark-grub 

Ravages of locusts  

Their swarms in Southern Africa 

The Italian locust  

Migrations in Palestine and Europe  



Voracity of maggots

Maggots of crane flies popularly called the grub 

Remarkable ovipositor  

Destruction of herbage on Blackheath 

Similardevastations in Poitou and Holderness 

Wheat fly, described by Mr. Shireff 

Additional particulars by Mr. Gorrie 

Observations of Kirby 

Mistake of Mr. Markwick  

Hessian fly, as described by Mr. Say  

Cheese-hopper the maggot of rioplula 

Wonderful structure of this maggot

Its transformation into a fly 

Origin of the hou.se fly (Aittsca dowesficfl)  

Mistakes of Ray and Reaumur 

Voracity of the maggots of blow flies  

Instance of man devoured by them. 
Popular mistake respecting lady-birds 

Their tran.sforfnation.s traced to the egg  

Aphides checked by these and by Syrphidm  


 


Mechanism of suspending chry.salide.s 

Proceedings of larvw upon their approaching change  

In what manner some caterpillars suspend themselves 

Their attempts sometimes unsuccessful 

Organ for holding fast 

Siispen.sory cincture of other caterpillars

Method of forming this by the swallow-tail 

Parchment-like ]»upa case of flies (A/MScidcr) 

Flask-shaped ])up!B of Syrnhidm 

Transformations of a Tipulidan gnat  
Mode by which the nymph is suspended 

Hooked aquatic pupa (Z/^drocampaO 




Form and structure of pupae 

The term metamorphosis objected to 
Harvey’s fancies about transmutation 

Similar fancies of Goedart exposed by Sw'aininerdam , 

Structure of the jiupa of the chameleon fly 

Pupa of the lappit moth ..... 

Chrysalis and transformations of the peacock butterfly 

Origin of philosophic errors ..... 

Changes produced on pupae by evaporation . • 





Objections to the theory of evaporation. 

Respiratory organs of pup» ..

Experiments upon the breathing of pupae  

Valves of the spiracles 

Breathing apparatus in the pupae of aquatic crane flies and gnats 
Plumed apparatus of the blood-worm  




Transformation of pupm into perfect insects  

Theory of transpiration by means of heat  
Objections to this theory 

Experiments by Kcaumur 

Chrysalides hatched under a hen 

Forcing of butterflies in winter 

Retarding the evolution of butterflies by cold 

Experiments on pupae led to the varnishing of eggs 
Illustrations of torpidity in animals and plants 

Various periods of disclosure in the same brood 

Supposed final cause of this 

Fixed time of the day for some insects to be evolved 
Remarhabic evolution of the gnat
Still more remarkable instance of the blood-worm. 

Netted doors in the pupa cases of caddis-flies 

Bellows-apparatus m the pupa of the blow-fly 
Contrivance in the pupao of wood- feeders  

Singularity in the locust moth 

Ingenious contrivance in a small leaf -roller 
Mistake of Bonnet with respect to the teazle-moth
Pupa eases ojiened by extraneous assistance 
Observations on this by the younger Huber 

Exyieriinent by Dr. J. R. .lobnson .... 

De Geer’s observations contrary to those of Swammerdam 
Remarkable circumstance in the hive bee . 





Expansion of the body and wings in insects newly transformed 

Structure of birds to contain air 

Expansion in the fly oi the ant-lion 

'J'he mandibles prove it carnivurous 

Transformations of dragon-flies 

Folded wings of some two-winged flies 

Maljughi’s account of the transtormations of the silk-worm  

Impulsion of fluids into the wings 

Kirby’s account of the expansion of the swallow-tailed butterfly  
Swammerdam's acecmnl of the wings of the bee 

Air-tubes in insects’ wings

Nervures in the wings ot plumed moths

Perfect insects do not increase in size 

Imperfect insects from fallen chrysalides 

Discharges from newly-evolved insects 

SuppobM bhowers of blood accounted fur .





Theories devised to account for crimson-snow . 
Curious fact explaining; this, by Mr. T. Nicholson , 
Does not explain the fed snow of the Alps , 




Peculiar motions of insects . . 

Motion indispensable to life , , 

Anecdote of a water-measurer 
Mode of combing themselves used by spiders 
Oscillatory motions of some tipulidae . , 

Vibratory motions of syrphi on the wing . 
Similar motions of hawks, red-breast, &c. . 
Experiment on Sr.iopfcra viltrans , . 

Illustrated by the wag-tail, &c. . . , 

Gnat dances in winter .... 
Opinion of Wordsworth and others 
Similar aifrial dances of rooks . 
Night-gambols of Curethresf on a book 
Circular movements of a summer fly 
Sjiortive movements not necessarily social . 
Account of the whirlwig, by Kirby and by Kni 
Remarkable structure of its eyes . 

Battles of butterflies .... 
Choral assemblies of ephemeridae 
Account of these by Reaumur . , 

Sports of ants 

Gymnastics of ants, according to Huber 




Peculiar locomotions of insects 

Examples from quadrupeds 

Singular movements of some plant-bugs .

Sailing of the whirlwig beetle 

Walking on water by spiders, &c. 

Walking through water by aquatic mites .... 
Oblique pace of midges 

Insect with its legs on its back 

Rapid galloping of the strawberry mite .... 
Slow movements of the oil-beetlcs 

Supposed sponges in the foot of the fly 

Correct notions of Derham and White, proved by Sir E. Home 

Apparatus in the feet of flies 

Leaping mubcles of the flea ...... 

Leaping of grasshoppers and springtails • . • . 

Springing ot spiders on their prey 

Plight of insects 

Mechanism of insects’ wings and their muscles, .'Ktcordiiig to 
M. Chabner 

Plying ol spiders without wings • 




Rest of insects .... 
Night insects rest in the day 





Day movements of other insects 

Insects have no brain nor spinal cord . , 

Want also a proper heart as well as blood , 

Supposed pulse in insects 

Ne circulation 

Allegfed discovery of an insect circulation, by Dr. Carus 
How the circulation is affected in the sleep of man , 
The same effects cannot take place in insects . 
Sleep of senses not equally profound . • • . 

Torpidity of insects in winter 

Hybernation of ants 

Anecdotes from Huber 

Hybernation of bees 

Discrepancies of opinion among naturalibts , 
Hybernation ol the hearth cricket .... 






All Insects come from Eggs as Plants do from Seeds. — Vulgar errors 
of Insects being generated by Putrefaction and Blighting Winds dis- 
proved by experiment. 

It was universally believed by the ancient philoso- 
phers, that magg'ots, flies, and other insects were 
g-enerated from putrefying substances. This opinion 
continues to be held by uninformed persons among 
ourselves ; — though it would be equally correct to 
maintain, that a flight of vultures had been generated 
by the dead carcass which they may be seen devouring, 
or a flock of sheep from the grass-field in which they 
graze. Another opinion, perhaps still more generally 
diffused, is that caterpillars, aphides, and other garden 
insects which destroy the leaves of plants, are gene- 
rated, propagated, or, at least, spread about, by certain 
winds or states of the air, mysteriously and inde- 
finitely termed blight. The latter belief is, probably, 
not so easy of immediate refutation as the former ; — 
but, as we shall endeavour to shew, it seems to us to 
be equally erroneous. 

The small size of insects renders it somewhat easy 
to pass off fanciful opinions regarding them, since it 
is difficult for common observers to detect mistakes ; 




but similar notions have been entertained by writers 
of no mean reputation, respecting even the larger 
animals. The celebrated Kircher, for example, one 
of the most learned men of the seventeenth century, 
goes so far as to give the following singular recipe 
for the manufacture of snakes: — 

“ Take some snakes,** says he, “ of whatever kind 
you want, roast them, and cut them in small pieces, 
and sow those pieces in an oleaginous soil ; then, 
from day to day, sprinkle them lightly with water 
from a watering-pot, taking care that the piece of 
ground be exposed to the spring sun, and in eight 
days you will see the earth strewn with little worms, 
which, being nourished with milk diluted with 
water, will gradually increase in size till they take 
the form of perfect serpents. This,” he subjoins 
with great simplicity, “ I learned from having found 
in the country the carcase of a serpent covered with 
worms, some small, others larger, and others again 
that had evidently taken the form of serpents. It 
was still more marvellous to remark, that among 
these little snakes, and mixed as it were with them, 
were certain flies, which I should take to be engen- 
dered from that substance which constituted the 
aliment of the snakes*.** 

Kircher’s more shrewd and less fanciful cor- 
respondent, Redi, determined to prove this singular 
recipe before he trusted to the authority of his friend. 
“ Moved,’* he says, “by the authentic testimony of 
this most learned writer, I have frequently tried the 
experiment, but I could never witness the genera- 
tion of those blessed snakelets made to handf.** 
But though Redi could not, in this way, produce a 
brood of snakes, his experiments furnished an 
abundant progeny of maggots, — the same, miques- 

? Athan. Kircher, Mund. Subterran. lib. xii. 
f Redi, Generat. Insectorum, edit. Amstel. 1G86. 





tionably, that the imagination of Kircher had mag- 
nified into young snakes, — which, being confined in 
a covered box, were in a short time transformed into 
flies, at first of a dull ash colour, wrinkled, un- 
finished, and their wings not yet unfolded, — as is 
always the case with winged insects just escaped 
from their pupa case. In less than an hour, how- 
ever, they “ unfolded their wings and changed into 
a vivid green, marvellously brilliant” — most pro- 
bably the green flesh-fly {Musca Cceaar, Linn.) 

It is a common opinion in this country, particu- 
larly in the north, that if a horse’s hair be put into 
the water of a spring or a ditch, it will be in process 
of time transformed, first into a hair-worm, and 
afterwards into an eel. The deception, as in the 
instance of Kircher’s snakes, arises from the close 
resemblance between a hair and the hair-worm 
{Gordius aquaticns, Linn.), and between this and 
a young eel. This fabled transformation of hair, 
which we have heard maintained even by several 
persons of good education, is physically impossible 
and absurd. 

The method laid down by Virgil in his Georgies 
for generating a swarm of bees is precisely of the 
same description as the snake recipe of Kircher ; and 
though the “ Episode of Aristaeus recovering his 
bees ” has been pronounced to be “ perhaps the 
finest piece of poetry in the world,” we must be 
permitted to say that it is quite fabulous and un- 
philosophical. The passage r\ins thus : — 

Oft from putrid gore of cattle slain 
Bees have been bred. * ^ * A narrow place, 

And for that use contracted, first they choose, 

Then more contract it, in a narrower room. 

Wall’d round, and cover’d with a low built roof. 

And add four windows, of a slanting light 
From the four winds. A b]LiUock then is sought, 

His horns just bending in their second year ; 





Him, much reluctant, with o’erpow’ringf orce. 

They bind ; his mouth and nostrils stop, and all 
The avenues of respiration close ; 

And buffet him to death: his hide no wound 
Receives ; his batter’d entrails burst within. 

Thus spent they leave him ; and beneath his sides 
Lay shreds of boughs, fresh lavender and thyme. 

This, when soft zephyr’s breeze first curls the wave, 

And prattling swallows hang their nests on high. 
Meanwhile the juices in the lender bones 
Heated ferment ; and, wondrous to behold, 

Small animals, in clusters, thick are seen, 

Short of their legs at first: on filmy wings, 

Humming, at length they rise; and more and more 
Fan the thin air; ’till, numberless as drops 
Pour’d down in rain from summer clouds, they fly. 

Trapp’s Virgil, Georg, iv. 369. 

Columella, a Roman writer on rural affairs, after 
directing; in what manner honey is to be taken from 
a hive by killing the bees, says, that if the dead bees 
be kept till spring;, and then exposed to the sun 
among; the aslies of the fig;-trec, properly pulverised, 
they may be restored to life. 

These fancies have evidently originated from mis- 
taking certain species of flies (^Syrphi^ Bomhylii^ 
&c.) for bees, v/hich, indeed, they much resemble in 
general api)earaiicc ; though they have only two 
wings, and ahort antennae, while all bees have ybi/r 
wings, and long antenna'. Neither the flies nor the 



Comparative lignres of a bee (a) and a syrphus (h). 


bees arc produced by putrefaction ; — but as the flies 
are found about animal bodies in a state of decom- 
position, the ancients fell into an error which accurate 
observation alone could explode. The maggots of 




blow-flies, as Swammerdam remarks, so often 
found in the carcasses of animals in summer, “ some- 
what resemble those produced by the eggs of 
bees. However ridiculous,” he adds, “ the opinion 
must appear, many great men have not been 
ashamed to adopt and defend it. The industrious 
Goedart has ventured to ascribe the origin of 
bees to certain dunghill worms*, and the learned 
De Mei joins with him in this opinion ; though 
neither of them had any observation to ground their 
belief upon, but that of the external resemblance 
between bees and certain kinds of flies {Syrphidai) 
produced from those worms. The mistake of such 
authors should teach us,” he continues, “to use 
great caution in our determinations concerning 
things which we have not thoroughly examine^ 
or at least to describe them with all the circum- 
stances observable in them. Therefore, although 
this opinion of bees issuing from the carcasses of 
some other animals by the power of putrefaction, 
or by a transposition of parts, be altogether absurd, 
it has had, notwithstanding, many followers, who 
must have in a manner shut their eyes in order to 
embrace it. But whoever will attentively consider 
how many requisites there are for the due hatching 
of the bee’s egg, and for its subsistence in the grub 
state, cannot be at a loss for a clue to deliver himself 
out of that labyrinth of idle fancies and unsupported 
fables, which, entangled with one another like a 
Gordian knot, have even to this day obscured the 
beautiful simplicity of this part of natural historyt.” 

Redi was by no means satisfied with the first results 
of his experiments upon the flesh of snakes, for several 

* The roag^gots of Eristalis ienax, Fabr. E. apiformis, Meigen, 
and other Syrphidee, well known in common sewers by their 
long tails, like those of rats. 

f Swaminerd. Book of Nature, i. 228. 




species of flies were produced, ^ivin^ some coun- 
tenance to the opinion of Aristotle, Pliny, Mouffet, 
and others, that different flesh eng^enders different 
flies, inheriting: the disposition of the animal they are 
bred from. He according:ly tried almost every 
species of flesh, fish, and fowl, both raw and cooked, 
and soon discovered (as he could not fail to do) that 
the same mag:g:ots and flies were produced indis- 
criminately in all. This ultimately led him to 
ascertain that no mag’gfots are ever g:enerated except 
from eggs laid by the parent flies: for when he 
carefully covered uj) pieces of meat with silk or 
paper sealed down with wax, no mag:g:ots were 
seen ; but the parent flies, attracted by the smell of 
the covered meat, not unfrequently laid their eggs 
on the outside of the paper or silk, the maggots 
hatched from these dying, of course, for want of 
nourishment. 

With respect to bees, it becomes even more absurd 
to refer their generation to putrefaction, when we 
consider that they uniformly manifest a peculiar 
antipathy to dead carcasses. This was remarked so 
long ago as the time of Aristotle and of Pliny * ; 
and Varro asserts that bees never alight upon an 
unclean place, nor upon any thing which emits an 
unpleasant smell. This is strikingly exemplified in 
their carrying out of the hive the bodies of their 
companions who chance to die there ; and in their 
covering over with propolis tlie bodies of snails, 
micef, and other small animals which they cannot 
remove J. 

These facts, which are unquestionable, may at 
first view appear to contradict the Scripture history 

• Aristotle, Hist. Animal, ix. 40. Pliny says, “Omnes carnc 
vescuntur, contra quam apes, quae nullum corpus attingunt.** 

f Huivli on Bees, p. 100. 

t Insect Architecture, p. 109. 





of Samson, who, having killed a yoiin^ lion in the 
vineyards of Timnath, “after a time turned aside to 
see the carcass of the lion : and behold a swarm of 
bees and honey in the carcass*” It only requires 
us, however, to examine the facts, to shew that 
this docs not disac^ree with the preceding statement. 
Bochart, in his Sacred Zoology, tells us that the 
word rendered “ carcass ” literally signifies skeleton ; 
and the Syriac version still more strongly renders 
it a dried body (corpus exsiccatiim). Bochart fur- 
ther contends, that the phrase “after a time’* is one 
of the commonest Hebraisms for a year. But when 
we consider the rapid desiccation caused by the sum- 
mer suns of Palestine, this extension of time will be 
unnecessary ; for travellers tell us that the bodies of 
dead camels become quite parched there in a few 
days. We have the testimony of Herodotus, that a 
swarm of bees built their cells and made honey in 
the dried carcass of a man placed above the gate of 
Athamanta. Soranus also tells us of a swarm of 
bees found in the tomb of the celebrated Hippocrates. 
“ I have been told,’* says Redi, “ by Albergotto, a 
man of profound erudition, that he had seen a swarm 
in the cranium of a horse. Bees,” he adds, “not 
only do not live upon dead bodies, but they will not 
even come near them, as 1 have oltcn proved by ex- 
periment.” “ It is probable,’* says Swammerdam, 
“ that the not rightly understanding Samson’s ad- 
venture of the lion gave rise to the popular opinion 
of bees springing from dead lions, oxen, and horses.** 
Kirby and Spence seem disposed to consider Samson’s 
bees, as we have done those of Virgil, to be flies 
resembling bees; but the “honey** which Samson 
“ took in his hands and went on eating,*’ is fatal to 
such an exposition. 

The ancients had another fancy respecting the 
? J udges, xiv. 8. 






propagation of bees, equally absurd, though much 
more poetical. Virgil tells us that, 

From herbs and fragrant flowers, with their mouths 
They cull their young. Georg, iv. 

Aii^Otle* had long before stated, and De Monfort 
in modern times repeated the assertion t, that the 
olive, the cerinthus, and some other plants, have the 
property of generating young bees from their purest 
juices. We may well say, with Lactantius, that 
“they make shipwreck of their wisdom, who adopt 
without judgment the opinions of their ancestors, 
and allow themselves to be led by others like a flock 
of sheep J.” Modern naturalists, being accustomed 
to minute accuracy in their observations, can both 
disprove and readily explain most of those erroneous 
fancies, by tracing the causes which led, and may 
still lead, inaccurate observers into such mistakes. 

It would have been well if such unfounded fancies 
had rested here ; but philosophical theorists, both of 
ancient and modern times, have promulgated dreams 
much more extravagant. The ancients taught that 
the newly-formed earth (hatched as some said from 
an egg) clothed itself with a green down like that 
on young birds, and soon after men began to sprout 
up from the ground as we now see mushrooms do. 
The refined Athenians were so firmly convinced of 
their having originally sprung up in this manner, 
that they called themselves “ Earth-born ” {Erich-- 
thonii)y and wore golden tree-hoppers {Cicadm) in 
their hair, erroneously supposing these insects to 
have a common origin with themselves §. Lucretius 

* Hist. Animal, v. 22. 

f Le Portrait de la Mouche a Miel. Liege, 1646. 

J Divin. Instit. ii. 7 ; in Redi’s motto. Shepherds on the con- 
tinent lead their sheep, as those of Israel did. See Menageries, 
vol. i. p. 81. 

5 The Cicadae do not deposit their eggs in the earth, but on 
trees, &c. See Insect Architecture^ chap. vii. 




affirms, that even in his time, when the earth was 
supposed to be growing too old to be reproductive, 
“ many animals were concreted out of mud by 
shoAvers and sunshine^.’’ 

But the ancients, it would appear, had^the 
shrewdness seldom to venture upon illustrations of 
their philosophical romances by particular examples. 
This was reserved for the more reckless theory- 
builders of our own times. We find Robinet, for 
example, asserting that, as it was nature’s chief 
object to make man, she began her “ apprentissage,” 
as he calls it, by forming minerals resembling the 
single organs of the human body, such as the brain 
in the fossil called Braiii-stone (Meandrina cerebri^ 
formis, Parkinson f). Darwin, again, taking the 
hint from Epicurus, dreams that animals arose from 
a single filament or threadlct of matter, which, by 
its efforts to procure nourishment, lengthened out 
parts of its body into arms and other members. 
For example, after this filament had improved itself 
into an oyster, and been by chance left dry by the 
ebbing of the tide, its efibrts to reach the water 
again expanded the parts nearest to the sea into arms 
and legs. If it tried to rise from its native rocks, 
the efforts produced wings, and it became an insect, 
which in due course of time imi)roved itself by fresh 
efforts till it became a bird, the more perfect members 
being always hereditarily transmitted to the progeny. 
Tlie different forms of the bills of birds, whether 
liooked, broad, or long, were, he says, gradually 
acquired by the perpetual endeavours of the creatures 
to supply their wants. The long-legged water- 

? Multaqiie nunc cli<am cxistunt anirnalia terris, 

Imbribus ct calido soils coricreta vapore. 

De Nut, Her. v. 795. 

f Robinet, Consid. Philosophiques de la Gradation Naturelle 
des Formes de I’Etrc. Paris, 176y. 





fowl (Grallatores, Vigors) in this way acquired 
length of legs sufficient to elevate their bodies above 
the water in which they waded. “A proboscis,” he 
says, “ of admirable structure has thus been acquired 
by the bee, the moth, and the humming-bird, for 
the purpose of plundering the nectaries of flowers*.” 
Lamarck, an eminent French naturalist, recently 
deceased, adopted the same visions ; and, among other 
illustrations of a similar cast, he tells us that the 
giraffe acquired its long neck by its efforts to browse 
on the high branches of trees, which, after the lapse of 
a few thousand years, it successfully accomplished. 

Theories like the preceding all originate in the en- 
deavours of human ingenuity to trace the operations 
of nature farther than ascertained facts will warrant; 
and the necessary blanks in such a system, which 
presupposes much that cannot be explained, are 
filled up by the imagination. This inability to 
trace the origin of minute plants and insects led 
to the doctrine of what is called spontaneous or 
equivocal generation, of which the fancies above- 
mentioned are some of the prominent branches. 
The experiments of Redi on the hatching of insects 
from eggs, which were published at Florence in 
1668, first brought discredit upon this doctrine, 
though it had always a few eminent disciples. At 
present it is maintained by a considerable num- 
ber of distinguished naturalists, such as Blumen- 
bach, Cuvier, Bory de St. Vincent, R. Brown, 
&c. “ The notion of spontaneous generation,” 

says Bory, “ is at first revolting to a rational mind, 
but it is, notwithstanding, demonstrable by the 
microscope. The fact is averred : Muller has seen 
it, 1 have seen it, and twenty other observers have 
seen it : the Pandorinia exhibit it every instant t.’ 

* Darwin’s Zoonomia, sect, xxxix. 3d edit. London, 1801. 

t Diet. Classique d‘ Hist, Nat., Art. Microscopiques, p. 541, 




These pandorinia he elsewhere describes as probably 
nothing more than animated scions of Zoocarpee 
(propagules animes des Zoocarpes)*. It would 
be unprofitable to go into any lengthened dis- 
cussion upon this mysterious subject ; and we have 
great doubts whether the ocular demonstration by the 
microscope would succeed except in the hands of a 
disciple of the school. Even with naturalists, whose 
business it is to deal with facts, the reason is often 
wonderfully influenced by the imagination. 

But the question immediately before us happily 
does not involve these recondite discussions; for 
if even pandorinia and other animalcules were 
proved beyond a doubt to originate in the play of 
chemical affinities or galvanic actions — (a more 
refined process, it must be confessed, than Kircher’s 
chopped snakes), it would not aflect our doctrine that 
all insects are hatched from eggs : for no naturalist 
of the present day classes such animalcules among 
insects. Leaving animalcules and zoophytes, there- 
fore, out of the question, we have only to examine 
such branches of the theory of spontaneous genera- 
tion as seem to involve the propagation of genuine 
insects, — like the fancies about putrefaction which 
we have seen refuted. 

The notion that small insects, such as aphides 
and the leaf-rolling caterpillars, are spread about, or 
rather generated, by what is termed blight (possibly 
from the Belgic hlinkan, to strike with lightning), 
is almost universally believed even by the most 
intelligent, if they have not particularly studied the 
habits of insects. Mr. Main, of Chelsea, an ingenious 
and well-informed gardener and naturalist, describes 
this as an “ easterly wind, attended by a blue mist. 
The latter is called a blight, and many people 
imagine that the aphides are wafted through the 
* Diet. Class., Art. Pandorin6es. 






air by this same mist^/’ “The farmer,” says 
Keith, “supposes these insects are wafted to him 
on the east wind, while they are only generated in 
the extravasated juices as forming a proper nidus for 
their eggst.” A more detailed account, however, 
is given by the late Dr. Mason Good, and as he 
speaks in part from personal observation, and was 
not only one of the most learned men of his time, 
but an excellent general naturalist, his testimony 
merits every attention : — 

“ That the atmosphere,” says Dr. Good, “ is 
freighted with myriads of insect eggs that elude our 
senses, and that such eggs, when they meet with a 
proper bed, are hatched in a few hours into a perfect 
form, is clear to any one who has attended to the 
rapid and wonderful eflects of what, in common lan- 
guage, is called a blight upon plantations and gar- 
dens. I have seen, as probably many who read this 
work have also, a hop-ground completely overrun 
and desolated by the apJm limnuli, or hop green - 
louse, within twelve hours after a honey-dew (which 
is a peculiar haze or mist loaded with poisonous 
miasm) has slowly swept through the plantgtion, 
and stimulated the leaves of the liop to the morbid 
secretion of a saccharine and viscid juice, which, 
while it destroys the young shoots by exhaustion, 
renders them a favourite resort for this insect, and a 
cherishing nidus for myriads of little dots that are its 
eggs. The latter are hatched within eight and forty 
hours after their deposit, and succeeded by hosts of 
other eggs of the same kind ; or, if the blight take 
place in an early part of the autumn, by hosts of the 
young insects produced viviparously ; for, in different 
seasons of the year, the aphis breeds both ways. 
Now it is highly probable that there are minute 

* Loudon’s Mag. of Nat. Hist. i. 180. 
f Keith’s Physiological Botany, ii. 48G. 








eggs, or ovula, of innumerable kinds of animalcules 
floating by myriads of myriads through the atmo- 
sphere, so diminutive as to bear no larger proportion 
to the eggs of the aphis than these bear to those of 
the wren or the liedge-sparrow ; protected at the 
same time from destruction, by the filmy integument 
that surrounds them, till they can meet with a proper 
nest for their reception, and a proper stimulating 
power to quicken them into life ; and which, with 
respect to many of them, are only found obvious to the 
senses in ditferent descriptions of animal fluids^.” 

It appears to us that it can be nothing more than 
a fancy, which is quite unsupported by evidence, to 
say that the eggs of any species of animalcules or 
insects float about in the atmosphere; for, inde- 
pendent of their weight, (every known species being 
greatly heavier than air,) the parent insects of every 
species whose history has been accurately investi- 
gated manifest the utmost anxiety to deposit their 
eggs upon or near the appropriate food of the young. 
To commit them to the winds would be a complete 
dereliction of this invariable law of insect economy. 
But admitting for a moment this hypothesis, that the 
eggs of insects are diflused through the atmosphere, 
the circumstance must be accompanied with two 
conditions, — the eggs must either be dropped by the 
parents while on the wing, or be carried off by winds 
from the terrestrial substances upon which they may 
have been deposited. 

On the supposition that the eggs are dropped by the 
mother insects while on the wing, we must also admit 
(for there is no avoiding it) that they continue to 
float about, unhatched, from the end of the summer 
till the commencement of spring, at which time only 
the broods make their appearance. Yet when we 

* Good’s Study of Medicine, v, i., p, 339, 3rd edition, London, 
1829. 

 


consider the rains, snows, and winds, to which they 
must be exposed for six or nine months, we think 
the hardiest theorist would scarcely maintain that a 
single egg could out-weather these vicissitudes, and 
continue to float in the air. It may not be out of 
place to remark, that the female aphides, which deposit 
eggs in autumn, have no wings. 

Again, on the supposition that the eggs are de- 
posited on plants, trees, or other objects, it is still 
more unlikely that they could be carried into the air ; 
for, on exclusion, they are, with very few exceptions *, 
enveloped in an adhesive cement which glues them 
to the spot on which they are deposited. When 
eggs are deposited singly, this cement usually enve- 
lopes each with a thin coating, as in the instance of 
the admirable butterfly (Vanessa Atalanta); but 
when they are placed in a group the cement is 
sometimes spread over the whole, as in the instance 
of the white satin moth (Leucoma salicis, Ste- 
phens). This cement is evidently intended by 
Nature (who seldom accommodates her plans to 
our theories) to prevent the eggs from being carried 
from the place selected by the mother insect for their 
deposition. Those eggs, therefore, which are placed 
on the outside of substances, have this provision 
for their secure attachment to the locality chosen by 
the instinct of the mother. But, on the contrary, 
the principle does not always hold in the case of those 
deposited in nests and excavations, and particularly as 
to those of ants and termites. The working ants, in- 
deed, carry the eggs from the top to the bottom of 
their galleries, according as the weather is favourable 
or unfavo\irable for hatching. The labourers of the 
white ants (Termites), again, attend their queen with 
the utmost care wlien she is laying ; for as she can- 
not then move about, they are under the necessity 
* latreille, HisUGener., xiv.; p, 342. 





of carrying off the eggs, as they are laid, to the 
nurseries. The extraordinary labour which this re- 
quires in the community may be understood, when, 
according to Smeathman, she lays 60 eggs in a 
minute, which will amount to 86,400 in a day, and 
31,536,000 in a year. The exceptions now men- 
tioned, however, do not in the least invalidate our 
general position. 



Cell of a qupon of the Termites belhcosi, broken open in front; 
the labourers surrounding the queen and carrying off her eggs. 


Another no less remarkable circumstance is the 
great weight, or specific gravity, of the eggs of in- 
sects. From numerous experiments we may venture 
to say that those of all the species which we have 
tried sink rapidly in water the moment they are 
thrown into it, from the egg of the drinker moth 
{Odojiesiis Puiatoria, Germar), which is nearly as 
large as a hemp-seed, to that of the rose-plant louse 
(^Aphis rosiE), which is so small as to be barely visible 
to the naked eye. Some eggs of the gipsey moth 
{Hypogymna dispar, Stephens), indeed, floated in 
water, because they were covered with down. It is 
well known, as we shall presently shew, that the dif- 
fusion of many of the seeds of plants is accomplished 
by the winged down with which they are clothed ; 




but the down upon the e^^s of insects does not 
conduce to this end. Whether insect ep;^s be naked 
or clothed with down, they are invariably, as far as 
their history has been invcstip^ated, deposited close to 
or upon substances capable of affording; food to the 
youngs when hatched. In making; experiments upon 
the specific g’ravity of egrg^s, it should be remembered 
that no infertile or uuimpregmated eg;g; will sink; 
for Ijaving; some hundreds of these laid by dif- 
ferent species of insects reared in our cabinet, 
we found, upon trial, that they uniformly floalcd, 
while those which w^e knew to be imprej^nated 
as uniformly sunk. A female, for example, of the 
rose-leaf roller (^Lozotamia Rosana, Stephens) 
was reared by us, in solitude, under an inverted 
wine-g;lass, upon the side of which she g*lued a 
patch of eg;gs, of course, unimpregnated : these, upon 
trial, all floated in water. But eggs of the same 
species taken from the outside of a pane of glass 
close to a rose-tree, all sunk in water ; and it is to be 
fairly presumed, as the parent of the latter was in a 
state of freedom, that these were impregnated. We 
found the same distinction, indeed, to hold in the 
eggs of the drinker moth, the gypsey moth, and 
numerous other insects^'. 

Dr. Good’s account of “ honey-dew,” which he 
describes as “ a peculiar haze or mist loaded with a 
poisonous miasm,” that stimulates “ the leaves of the 
hop to the morbid secretion of a saccharine and viscid 
juice” — appears to us unsupported by facts. Lin- 
ujEust, on the contrary, who w^as not wedded to the 
meteorological theory of a miasinatous haze, ascribes 
the honey-dew on the hop leaves to the caterpillar of 
the ghost moth (Hcpialiis Jii/myli) attacking the roots. 
Dr. Withering, favouring this account, recommends 
covering the roots with stones as a preventive ; for 

* J. R. t Quoted by Keith, Phys. Bot., ii. 143. 






the caterpillars, he avers, never attack wild hops 
which p^row in stony places, because they cannot 
get at the roots It appears to us, however, that 
there can be little doubt that tlie sweet syrupy 
coating, called honey-dew, found on the leaves of 
the hop, is nothing more than the excrement of 
the insect {Aphia fwmnU) whose propagation we 
arc discussing. “ The honey-dew,” says Loudon, 
“ moslly” (we believe always) “occurs after the crops 
have been attacked by these insects ’’ t- SirJ.E. 
Smith, who admits this to be the common cause of 
honey-dew, contends that what is found on the leaves 
of the beech is an exception; but he adduces no 
evidence at all satisfactory in proof of its being 
caused by unfavourable winds J ; while the undoubted 
fact of its being the excrement of aphides in so many 
other instances § weighs strongly against him. 

A novel theory of honey-dew has just been pub- 
lished by Mr. John Murray, who ascribes it to an 
electric change in the air. “ Last summer,’^ he 
says, “ we investigated the phenomenon with great 
care : the weather had been parched and sultry 
for some weeks previous, and the honey-dew pre- 
vailed to such an extent, that the leaves of the cur- 
rant, raspberry, &c., in the gardens, literally distilled 
from their tips a clear limpid honey-dew, excreted 
from the plant ; for the phenomenon was observable 
on those plants that were entirely free from aphides, 
and so copious was it, where these insects were 
found, that had their numbers been centuple they 
could not certainly have been the source of the sup- 
ply. The question with me, however, was set at rest 
by applying a lens, having previously washed and 

* Botan. Arrangement, ii,, 440, 3(1 ed. 

+ Encycl. of Agriculture, p. 86.5, s. 5444. 

:{: Introduction to Botany, p. 189. 

§ See Linn, Trans, vol, vi. and Willdenow, Princ. of Botany, p, 343. 

c 3 




dried the leaf by a sponp^e, for in this case the im- 
mediately excreted globules became apjiareut 

In all observations upon insects, and the other 
minute parts of creation, it is often exceedingly dif- 
ficult to distingiiisli between a cause and an effect. 
The question of the formation of honey-dew appears 
to us particularly liable to erroneous conclusions ; 
and we therefore venture to mention a few circum- 
stances which seem irreconcileable with Mr. Mur- 
ray’s ingenious theory. The hop fly {AphisJufmiili), 
we think, neither does, nor (for want of appropriate or- 
gans) can, feed on the honey-dew ; and if it did, this 
feeding would prove rather beneficial than otherwise to 
the plant, by clearing it from the leaves whose respira- 
tory functions it obstructs. So far from feeding on 
diseased plants, an aphis only selects the youngest 
and most healthy shoots, into the tender juicy parts 
of which it thrusts its beak {havMlvm)^ which in 
some species is much longer than the body, and no 
more fitted for lapping honey-dew than the bill of 
TEsop’s crane was for eating out of a shallow^ plate. 
In the experiment, tried by Mr. Murray, of wiping 
a leaf, might not the leaf have been previously 
wounded, perhaps, by the beak of some aphis, and 
hence the exudation of sap, not honey-dew? and 
may not the circumstance of his finding the lioney- 
dew on leaves where there were no aphides be 
accounted for on the principle that the aphides had 
abandoned, as they always do, the parts covered 
with their ejecta, unless these fell from insects on 
some over-hanging branch ? It is justly remarked 
by M. Sauvages, that they are careiul to eject the 
honey-dew to a distance from where they may be 
feeding t- We have now in our study a plant of 
the Chinese chrysanthemum {Aiithemis Artemisia 

? Treatise on Atmospherical Electricity, p. 14/, Lond. 1830. 
f Trans. Soc. Roy. Ue Montpellier. 





foUUy WiLLD.), the youn^ shoots of which have 
swarmed with aphides all the winter, and the leaves 
below are covered with honey-dew. We tried the 
experiment of wiping it off from a leaf, but no more 
was formed when it was protected by a })iece of 
writing-paper from the aphides above ; while the 
writinc^-paper became sprinkled all over with it in a 
few hours. By means of a lens, also, we have ac- 
tually seen the aphides ejectin«; the honey-dew * 

The almost instantaneous appearance of these 
destructive insects in frreat numbers at the same 
time, is taken notice of with wonder by almost every 
writer. This circumstance, it must be confessed, 
c;ives considerable ])lausibility to the notion of their 
bein^ broup:ht by winds, — for whence, we may be 
asked, could they otherwise come? Simply, \ve 
reply, from the e^<i's deposited the precedinc: autumn, 
which, having all been laid at the same time, and ex- 
posed to the same degrees of temperature, are of 
course all simultaneously hatched. In the case of 
the aphides, also, the fecundity is almost incalculable. 
Reaumur proved by experiment, that one aphis may 
be tlie progenitor of 5, 904,900, (K)0 descendants dur- 
ing its life; and Latreillc says, a female during 
the summer inontlis usually produces about twenty- 
live a day. Reaumur I’urther supposes, that in 
one year there may be twenty generations. We 
ourselves have counted more than a thousand 
aphides on a single leaf of the hop ; and in sea- 
sons when they are abundant — when every hop-leaf 
is peopled with a similar swarm — the number of 
eggs laid in autumn must be, to use the words of 
Good, “ myriads of myriads.” The preservation 
and hatching of these eggs in the ensuing spring 
must, it is obvious, depend on the weather and other 
* J.R. 






accidental circumstances, seldom appreciable by our 
most minute observations 
The history of other insects, erroneously referred to 
blighting winds, is more easily traced, from their 
bein^ of a larger size than the aphides. The cater- 
pillar, for example, of Lozoteenia Rosaiia, mentioned 
before, which rolls the leaf of the rose-tree, is one of 
this kind. It is well known as furnishing the common 
poetical comparison of “ a worm i* the bud.’’ Early 
in autumn the mother insect deposits an irregularly 
oval-patch of yellowish eggs, covered with a cement 



Two groups of eggs of the Rose-leaf roller yZoiona) 

on a pane of glass. 

* J. R. 





of the same colour, sometimes upon the branches of 
the rose-tree, but more frequently, as we have ob- 
served, upon some smooth object contiguous. For 
several successive seasons, we have found more than 
one ^roup of these e^p^s upon the p:lass panes, as 
well as the frame-work, of a window, beneath which 
a rose-tree has been trained. At present (January 
1830) there arc two of these groups on one pane, 
and three on the frame-work ; and as each contains 
about fifty eg'p;s, should they all be hatched, two 
or three hundred caterpillars would at once be let 
loose, and, streaming down simultaneously upon 
the rose-tree beneath, would soon devour the greater 
number of its buds. As this window faces the east, 
the sudden appearance of the insects would make 
it appear not unplausible that they had been swept 
hither by an easterly wind. 

We found, during the same winter, an extraor- 
dinary number of similar gro\ips of the eggs of a 
leaf-roller {hozolmnia Ribcana ?) on the branches of 
the gooseberry and red-currant, in a garden at Lee. 
On some small trees, from two to ten groups of eggs 
were discovered ; and as each group consisted of 
from thirty to fifty, a caterpillar might have been 
hatched for every bud. After the severity of the 
season was over, we had the piece of bark cut otf 
on which these eggs were attached ; and though they 
had been exposed on the bare branches to the intense 
frosts of 18*29-30, they were hatched in a few days 
after being brought into our study. As the currant- 
trees were not then come into leaf’, we had no Ibod 
to supply them with, and th<?y refused the leaves of 
all other plants which w^eotfered to them. Had they 
been permitted to remain on the trees till they were 
hatched, they would probably have not left a single 
leaf undevoured. For this spring, at least, these 
currant bushes will be safe from their attacks, and of 





course will set at defiance the supposed blighting 
winds, which no doubt will, as usual, be accused of 
peopling the adjacent gardens with caterpillars. It 
may be well to remark, that these caterpillars, when 
hatched, are scarcely so thick as a thread of sewing 
silk, and being of a greenish colour, they are not 
readily found on the leaves, the opening buds of 
which they gnaw to the very core 

It does not seem to have ever occurred to those 
who thus speak of insect-bearing winds, that they get 
rid of no difficulty by the suppositioa ; for where, we 
may ask, is the east or any other wind to take up 
the insects or eggs which it is said to drift along ? 
The equally sudden disappearance of insects all at 
once, which is also popularly attributed to winds, 
arises from their having arrived at maturity, and 
fulfilled the designs of Providence, by depositing 
their eggs for the ensuing season, when they all die, 
some in a few hours, though others survive for 
several days, but rarely for weeks. 

The sudden and simultaneous appearance of great 
numbers of frogs, snails, and other land animals, has 
given rise to the extravagant opinion that they have 
fallen in a shower from the clouds ; and some goodly 
theories have been devised to account for the pro- 
bable ascent of frog-spawn, and the eggs of snails, 
into the atmosphere by whirlwinds. The impossi- 
bility of this, in consequence of their specific gravity, 
is of course left out of consideration by the theorists. 
Our distinguished naturalist, Ray, when riding one 
afternoon in Berkshire, was much surprised at seeing 
an immense multitude of frogs crossing his path, and 
on looking into the adjacent fields he found that two 
or three acres of ground were nearly covered with 
them. They were all proceeding in the same direc- 
tion towards some woods and ditches ; and he traced 
* J.R. 





them back to the side of a very large pond, which, hi 
spawning time, he was informed, swarmed with 
countless numbers of fro^s. He naturally concluded, 
therefore, that, instead of having been precipitated 
from the clouds, they had been bred in the pond, from 
which they had been invited a short time before, by a 
refreshing shower, to go in quest of food Their 
great numbers will appear less marvellous, when we 
consider that a single frog spawns, as De Mont- 
beillard informs us, about 1300 eggs t* Were it not, 
indeed, for their numerous enemies, and their not 
being fit to propagate till they are three years old, 
the country would soon be overrun with these 
reptiles. We have more than once seen a similar 
legion of hair-worms {Gordii aqvatici, Linn.) in a 
garden at Lee, in Kent, every plant and spot of 
ground literally swarming with them. Their num- 
bers, however, were easily accounted for, as a stream 
at the bottom of the garden abounds with them, and, 
like frogs, they appear to be amphibious J. 

The errors of theory, as well as the mistakes of 
observers, swayed (unconsciously perhaps) by the 
influence of their theoretical opinions, may all be 
traced, we think, to the propensity of human nature 
to discover resemblances in things, which are after- 
wards magnified into close affinity, or even into 
identity. We are indebted to one of our best living 
entomologists, Mr, W. Mac Leay, for clearly point- 
ing out the broad distinction between analogy and 
affinity^. The supposed floating of the eggs of insects 
in the air thus appears to have originated in drawing 
an analogy from the seeds of plants ; though, from 
the facts we have stated, so far from there being any 

* Ray’s Wisdom of God in the Creation, p. 156. 
f Diet. Classique d’Hist. Nat., vii., p.495. J J. R, 

§ Horse Enlomologicsc, or Essays on Anuulose Animals, 8vo. 
London, 1819.21, 





analogy, there is no difference more marked than 
ill this very point — that the eggs of insects are, in 
most cases, fixed by a glue at the moment of ex- 
clusion, while the seeds of plants are uniformly 
diffusable and free. The fertile seeds of plants, 
it is true, are heavy enough to sink in water, and 
consequently as much unfitted for floating in the 
air as the eggs of insects ; but the contrivances to 
counteract this exemplify some of the most beautiful 
provisions of nature. The diffusion of the seeds of 
thistles, groundsel, dandelion, &c., by means of 
feathery down, attraets the notice of the most incuri- 
ous. Another contrivance of nature for eflecting the 
same purpose is not only curious in itself, but bears 
upon our present subject as illustrating an affinity 
which it may be supposed to have with the oviposit 
ing of certain insects. 

The seeds of the various species of violets are 
contained in a capsule of a single cell, or loculainent, 
consisting, however, of three valves. To the inner 
part of each of these valves a seed is attached, and 
it remains so for some time after the valves, in the 
process of ripening, have separated and stood open. 
The influence of the sun’s lieat causes the sides of 
each valve to shrink and collapse ; and in this state 
the edges press firmly upon the seed ; wliich, it may 
be remarked, is not only extremely smooth, polished, 
and shining, but regularly egg-shaped. Thus, when 
the collapsing edge of the valve slides gradually 
and forcibly down over the sloping part of the seed, 
it is tlirovvn with a jerk to a considerable distance. 
There is another part of the contrivance of nature for 
the same purpose, in the violaceie, worthy of remark. 
Before the seed is ripe, the capsule hangs in a droop- 
ing position, with the persisting calyx spread over it 
like an umbrella, to guard it from the rain and dews, 
which would retard the process of ripening ; but no 





sooner is the ripening completed, than the capsule 
becomes almost upris^ht, with the calyx for a support. 
This position appears to be intended by nature to ‘2:ive 
more effect to the valvular mechanism for scattering 
the seeds, as the capsule thus f^ains a higher ele- 
vation (in some cases more than an inch) from which 
to project them. Some ripe capsules of a fine variety 
of heart’s-ease (Viola tricolor), which I placed in a 
shallow ])asteboard box, in a drawer, were found to 
have projected their seeds to the distance of two feet. 
From the elevation of a capsule, therefore, at the top 
of a tall plant, these seeds might be projected twice 
or thrice that distance 

We may mention, as another very curious illustra- 
tion of the power in plants of discharging their seeds, 
the remarkable instance of a minute fungus (Sphaero- 
holm slellatua, Tode). This plant has the property 
of ejecting its seeds with great force and rapidity, 
and with a loud cracking noise ; and yet it is no 
bigger than a pin’s headf. 

The circumstance alluded to as analogous in in- 
sects to this admirable contrivance, occurs in the 
forcible discharge of the eggs of some species to a 
distance. The ghost moth (Jfcpialtis hintiuli), 
for example, ejects its minute black eggs with so 
much rapidity, that De Geer describes them as run- 
ning from the oviduct; and they are sometimes 
forcibly thrown out like pellets from a pop-gun J. 
‘‘ A friend of mine,” says Kirby, “ who had observed 
with attention the proceedings of a common crane- 
fly (Tijmla), assured me, that several females which 
he caught projected their eggs to the distance of 
more than ten inches §.” Another instance is men- 
* .T. 11. in Mag;, of Nat. Hist., i. 380. 

f For a minute account of this singular plant, see Grcville’s 
Scottish Cryptogamic Flora, No.xxxii. 

J De Geer, Mem. des Insectes, iv., 494, 

$ Kirby and Spence, Intr, iii, GQ, 



tioiied by the Abbe Preaiix, of a four- winged fly, 
called by him, Mouche batiste^ which, when caught, 
jets out its eggs at intervals, as if by the jerk of a 
spring 

The apparent analogy, however, between these in- 



A, Plants of Spheeroholus, natural size. B, magnified view. 

C, sectional view, with the seed just previous to projection. D, 
the seed in the act of projection. K,a plant imnjediately after 
projection j a, the seed } b & line indicating its course. 

? Diet. Classique d’Hist. Nat., Art. Mouches Balistes. The 
words are “ Insecte si quatre ailes, qui lance ses oeufs 2l diverses 
reprises, et comme par ua ressort, iorsqu'on le saiiit” 





sects and the plants which discharge their seeds, 
will disappear, when we consider that the scattering 
of the seeds is, in the plants, a regular and con- 
stant process of nature; whereas the insects only 
jet out their eggs from fear when caught. The 
power of throwing their eggs to a distance, indeed, 
could be of no possible use to insects, because they 
possess the more efficient power of locomotion. 

The facts which we have thus stated with regard 
to the seeds of plants being diffused by the means 
of winged down, or by the more remarkable capacity 
of being projected, differ, as we have shewn, in some 
important circumstances from the nearly similar 
arrangement of Nature in the economy of insects. 
They constitute affinities, but not analogies. On the 
other hand, the more universal law of the conti- 
nuance of insect life by every new generation being 
hatched from eggs, may be illustrated by an analogy, 
which is observed even in the most minute instances, 
in the generation of plants from seeds. 

The diffusion of the seeds of an extensive order 
of plants {Cryptogamicp, Acotyledones, Joss., 

Cellulares, De Candolle) being so universal, and 
the seeds (^sponiles) themselves being so minute as 
to elude common observation, the phenomena thence 
arising have, like the sudden appearance of newly 
hatched insects, given some colour to the doctrine of 
spontaneous generation. We may see this exem- 
plified every day on brick walls recently built, even if 
they be covered with a smooth coat of cement. The 
first indication of vegetable life on such a wall, par- 
ticularly in parts exposed to the trickling down of 
rain water, is that of a green silky-looking substance, 
having somewhat the appearance of a coat of green 
paint, Mr. Drummond, of the Cork Botanic Garden, 
by accurately watching the progress of this green 
matter, which had been unsuccessfully investigated 




by Priestley, Ingenhouz, and Ellis, and had been 
mistaken by Linnai\is for a crop of byssi, ascer- 
tained beyond question that it always consisted of 
the minute buds of common mosses, such as the wall 
screw moss (Tortvla mvralis) and the common 
hair-hood moss (Polytrichum commune) *. At 
Glasgow, we have repeatedly remarked, that on the 
walls of houses, built with freestone raised from a 
quarry more tliaii a hundred feet under the surface 
of the soil, the whole exterior would, in the course 
of one mouth, appear as green as if painted, with 
these innumerable germinating mosses f. 

The germination of mosses on walls appears to 
arise from the seeds {sporulcs) being carried into the 
air. Tliis process is facilitated by their extreme 
minuteness and their comparative lightness, for they 
do not sink in water like the seeds of phenogamous 
plants and the eggs of insects, as appears from their 
germinating on the surface of stagnant water as 
frequently as on walls. In low situations, the mode 
in which the seeds of cryptogamie plants are diffused 
is well exemplified in the puff-ball (Ly coper don) ^ 
which, when ripe, explodes its sporules in the form 
of a smoke-like cloud. Mosses again, which grow 
on trees and walls, if they do not thus explode their 
sporules, must drop them into the air ; and, as they 
chiefly ripen early in spring, the winds which then 
prevail will scatter them to considerable distances. 
But we only state this as a highly probable inference 
from Drummond’s discovery : to detect these all but 
invisible seeds boating in the atmosphere, and trace 
them in their passage from the parent plant to the wall 
or tree where they begin to germinate, we think is 
hardly ])ossible. 

If the doctrine be sound, that every plant arises 
from seed, we must either believe that innumerable 

# Linn. Trans. J. R. 






mosses are wafted to the walls throug^h the air, or 
adopt the hypothesis that they have existed for cen- 
turies in the interior of the rocks of the quarry. That 
it is not impossible the seeds may have existed in the 
rocks several curious facts would lead us to believe. 
Some seeds, for example, retain the power of germi- 
nating^ for an indefinite length of time ; since the 
wheat usually wrapt up with Egyptian mummies will 
often germinate and grow, as well as if it had been 
gathered the preceding harvest. It also bears upon 
this subject, that when a piece of ground, which has 
never been tilled, is turned up by the spade or the 
plough, it immediately becomes covered with a crop of 
annuals, not one of which may grow within many 
miles of the spot; and a number of them, such as 
hedge mustard (Sisymbriitm officinale) and chick- 
weed {Alsine media)^ whose seeds are not winged. 
It is no less worthy of remark that all these annuals 
will again disa])pear as soon as the grass is suffered 
to spread over the spot which has been dug up. It is 
mentioned by Mr. James Jennings, in Time’s Tele- 
scope for 1823, that the coltsfoot (Ttmilago farfar a) 
is usually the first plant which appears in England in 
such cases — a circumstance by no means remarkable, 
as the seeds of this plant are winged with down, and 
extremely light. 

A still more minute family of cryptogarnic plants, 
and consequently more diilicult to trace, is well known 
by the popular name of mould or mouldiness 
cedines, Linn.) This, Adolphe Brongniart justly 
remarks, is, in one of its groups, nearly allied to the 
puff-balls {Lycoperda), whose mode of diffusing their 
seeds we have just described. When mould is 
examined by the microscope it is seen to resemble 
these ; and sometimes various fungi are, when 
mature, filled with a blackish dust, supposed to be 
the seed. Micheli, of Florence, an eminent botanist, 



resolved to try whether this supposed seed would 
grow if sown on vegetable substances, and found 
that it did so. On his experiments bein^ repeated 
at Bologna, however, it was discovered that the mould 
^rew equally well where none of the black powder 
liad been sown ; but Spallanzani, by more accurate 
attention, confirmed the conclusion of Micheli. He 
collected a great quantity of the dust, and, taking a 
number of pieces of moistened bread, apples, pears, 
gourds, &c., sowed some thickly, others sparingly, 
and others not at all. The result was, that on the 
unsown substances the mould did appear, but several 
days later, and then greatly less in quantity, than on 
the sown substances; while of these two, the pieces 
thickly sown had more than double the quantity of 
the pieces thinly sown, though, when it came up 
thick, it did not grow so tall. 



Miproscopu’ views of apple and pear mould. A A, Tart of a 
shrivflled apple, covered with mould on the inside, a a a a, se- 
veral of the individual mould plants hijfhly niajinified. fc, a 
branched one. r d, seed-vessels, one biir.stinfi: and scatlering; I la 
seed, c,'* one nnishrooin- shaped. /, a jiortion of pear mould, 
of a branched form. 

We were much struck last autumn (1829), upon 
cutting an apple asunder, to find in the seed-cells a 




copious growth of the mould with the slender stems 
and globular heads figured by Spallanzani. Mould 
upon an apple is not indeed wonderful ; but the one 
in question was not only large, but apparently sound 
throughout. Whence, then, came the seeds of this 
mould in the very core of the apple ? We have also 
met with mould of a different species, resembling the 
green mould on the rind of oranges (Acrosporium 
fasciadatvm, Greville), even on the kernels of nuts, 
when there was no opening save the minute pores 
in the shell. Through these pores, then, after 
being stripped ofthehusk that covered them, the seed 
of this nut-mould must have entered. This, how- 
ever, will not account for the mould in the apple ; 
the seed of which, we think, must have been intro- 
duced while it was in embryo, in some such way as 
the seeds of the subcortical fungi so abundant on 
dead leaves and branches of trees. This again 
may be illustrated by the curious facts respecting 
substances found in the interior wood of trees. Sir 
John Clark, for example, tells us that the horns of 
a large deer were discovered in the heart of an oak in 
Whirificid Park, Cumberland, fixed in the timber 
with large iron cramps, with which, of course, it 
had at first been fastened on the outside *, The 
eminent naturalist, Adarison, on visiting Cape 
Verd, was struck with the venerable aspect of a tree 
fifty feet ill circumference; and recollecting having 
read in some old voyages that an inscription had 
been made upon such a tree, he was induced to 
search for this by cutting into the wood, and, mar- 
vellous to say, he actually found it under 300 layers 
of woodt I De Candolle, one of the greatest living 
botanists, remarked “ a frost-bitten part in the 
wood of a tree, cut down in 1800, in the forest of 

* Phil. Trans, vol. xli.,p. 448. 

t Adanson, Voyages -i Senegal. 





Fontainebleau. This bein^ covered with 91 layers 
of wood, indicated that the accident occurred in 
1709, so remarkable for a severe frost*/* With these 
facts before us, we think the introduction of the seed 
of the mould into the centre of the apple by no 
means so unaccountable as at first view it appeared. 
Be this as it may, we tried, with the seed gathered 
from this apple-mould, similar experiments to those 
of Spallanzani, with results precisely similar to his; 
and being in this way able at pleasure to produce 
mould of tlie mine species by sowing, we are entitled 
to conclude that all mould arises from seed, other- 
wise nature must produce the same effect from dis- 
similar causes, which is contrary to the first principles 
of sound j)hilosopliy t. 

* Conv. on Veg. Physiol., i. 59. f J. R. 





Physiology of Insects* Eggs. — Their Colour, Structure, Shape, Size, , 
and Number. 


It was a notion of Darwin’s, (much more in- 
g;ciiious and plausible than his metamorphoses of 
shell-fish into birds,) that the variety in the colours 
of C2'^s, as well as the colours of many animals, is 
adapted to the purposes of concealment from their 
natural enemies. Thus, he says, the snake, the wild 
cat, and the leopard, arc so coloured as to resemble 
dark leaves and their lighter interstices ; birds re- 
semble the colour of the brown ground or the 
green hedges which they frequent; while moths 
and butterflies are coloured like the flowers which 
they rob of their honey*. By following up this 
curious theory, Gloger, a German naturalist t, has 
remarked, that those birds whose eggs are of a 
bright or conspicuous colour instinctively conceal 
their nests in the hollows of trees, never quit them 
except during the night, or sit immediately after they 
have laid one or two eggs. On the other hand, in the 
case of birds who build an exposed nest, the colours 
of the eggs are less attractive. Amongst birds whose 
eggs are perfectly white — the most conspicuous of 
all colours, — he instances the kingfisher {Ala do'), 
which builds in a hole in a river’s bank; the 
woodpecker (Pzews), which builds in the hole of 
a tree ; and the swallow {Hirundo domestica), whose 

• Zoonomia, Sect. 39, p. 248, 3d.ed., and Botan. Garden, note 
on Ru*)ia. 

t Verhand, der Gesellsch. Naturforscli, Freundc. Berlin, 
1824. 


 


nest has a very small openinp^: while owls and 
hawks, which scarcely quit their nests in the day, 
and pijreons, which only lay one or two ep^gs and sit 
immediately after, have also white eg^s. The bright- 
blue, or bright-green egg, again, belongs to birds 
which build in holes, as the starling {Sturnus vulgaris)^ 
or which construct their nests of green moss, or place 
them in the midst of grass, but always well covered. 
Almost all singing birds, he alleges, lay eggs of a 
dull or dark ground, and variously speckled; and 
they for the most part build open nests with mate- 
rials similar in colour to the eggs, so that no evi- 
dent contrast is presented which might lead to 
their discovery and destruction. We may add 
from Darwin the examples of the hedge-sparrow 
{Accentor modidaris)^ whose eggs are greenish blue, 
as are those of magpies and crows, which are seen 
from beneath in wicker nests, between the eye and 
the blue of the firmament^. 

As this theory is but indirectly connected with 
our subject, we cannot here spare room to examine 
it ; but we may remark, that it appears to us much 
more beautiful and ingenious than true : for we 
could enumerate more instances in which the prin- 
ciple fails than holds good. Gloger’s instances 
also are far from accurate ; for though the king- 
fisher, for example, hides her shining white eggs in 
a hole, yet that will not conceal them from the 
piercing eyes of their chief enemy, the water rat, which, 
like all burrowing animals, can see with the least 
possible liffht. Many birds, also, which lay bright- 
coloured eggs, make open nests ; the thrush, for ex- 
ample, whose clear-blue eggs, with a few black 
blotches, arc far from being concealed by the plaster- 
ing of clay and cow-dung upon which they are de- 
posited. The green-finch {Fringilla chloris, Tem- 

* See also St. Pierre, Studies of Nature, ii., 393 ; Note, 





minck)) again, which builds an open nest of green 
moss, lined with horsehair, black or white as it can 
be had, lays clear white eggs with red spots, pre- 
cisely like those of the common wren and the willow 
wren (Sylvia Trochilus), which build covered nests 
with a small side-entrance ; while the house-sparrow 
(Fringilla domesiica) lays eggs of a dull, dirty 
green, streaked with dull black, and always builds in 
holes or under cover. These objections will render 
it unnecessary for us to follow Darwin into his 
fanciful account of the origin of the colour of eggs, 
which he ascribes to the colour of the objects amongst 
which the mother bird chiefly lives acting upon the 
shell through the medium of the nerves of the eye ; 
for, if this were correct, we should have the green- 
finch and the red-breast, instead of their white eggs, 
laying blue ones like the hedge-sparrow and the fire- 
tail. 

Upon a partial view of the subject, we might bring 
many facts to support the theory from the colour of 
the eggs of insects. The nettle butterflies, for ex- 
ample, the small tortoise shell (Vanessa TJrticcd)^ 
the peacock (V, lo), and the admirable (V. Atalanta)^ 
all lay eggs of a green colour, precisely similar in 
tint to the plant to which they are attached. On the 
contrary, the eggs of the miller moth (Apatela Le- 
porina, Steph.), which are. deposited on the grey 
bark of the willow, are light purple ; another beautiful 
geometric moth (Geometra illtfnaria), which Sepp^ 
calls Herculesje, lays its light pink eggs in the fissures 
of the bark of the elm ; the puss moth (Cerura vin uld) 
lays shining brown eggs on the green leaf of the pop- 
lar ; and the garden white butterfly (Pontia Brassicee) 
lays a group of yellow ones on a green cabbage or cole- 
wort leaf, but not of so bright a yellow as those of 
the seven-spot ladybird (Coccinella Septempunctatd)^ 
? Sepp, der Wonderen Gods, Tab. 35. 





patches of which may be found on many sorts of 
leaves during the summer months. 

The immediate origin of colour in the eggs of in- 
sects is in some cases the inclosed yolk shining 
through the transparent shell; but in others, the 
shell is not uniformly transparent, but ringed, banded, 
or dotted with o])acities of various colours. In the 
eggs of the drinker moth {Odoimtis poLatorid), for 
example, there are two circular rings of a green 
colour, from the green yolk appearing through the 
shell ; while the rest of the shell is white and opaque, 
as we have proved by dissection^. Certain ruddy 
spots on the white eggs of the small rhinoceros 
beetle (Oryctes nasicornis, Illiger) were discovered 
by Swammerdam to be the red mandibles and spi- 
racles of the unhatched grub seen through the shell ; 
and the white ground, we infer, was similarly caused 
by the body of the grubf. This, however, cannot 
be the origin of the bright red spots on the beautiful 
yellow egg of the brimstone moth (Rimiia era- 
tcBgata^ Duponchel), which may, perhaps, have a 
similar origin to those of birds. 

With respect to the eggs of birds, it has been re- 
marked by Mr. Knapp j, that in those “ of one hue, 
the colouring matter resides in the calcareous part ; 
but where there are markings, these are rather ex- 
traneous to it than mixed wdth it. The elegant blue 
that distinguishes the eggs of the fire-tail {Sylvia 
phccnicuniSj Lath.), and of the hedge-sparrow, 
though corroded away, is not destroyed by muriatic 
acid. The blue calcareous coating of the thrush’s 
egg is consumed ; but the dark spots, like the 
markings on the eggs of the yellow-hammer, house- 
sparrow, magpie, &c., still preserve their stations on 

* J.R. 

f Swammerdam, Book of Nature, i. 13- 
I Journal of a Naturalist, p. 230. 



 


the film, thongch loosened and rendered mucilaginous 
by this rough process. Though this calcareous mat- 
ter is partly taken up during incubation, the mark- 
ings upon these eggs remain little injured even to 
the last;, and are almost as strongly defined as when 
the eggs are first laid. These circumstances seem 
to imply, that the colouring matter on the shells of 
eggs does not contribute to the various hues of the 
plumage; but, it is reasonable to conclude, are de- 
signed to answer some particular object not obvious 
to us: for though the marks are so variable, }et the 
shadings and spottings of one species never wander 
so as to become exactly figured like those of another 
family, but j)rescrve year after }ear a certain charac- 
teristic figuring.” 

Most of these remarks will a]>ply to the colours of 
the eggs of insects : but though we can in most in- 
stances trace no connexion between the colours of 
eggs and the perfect insect, there is a striking ex- 
ception in the egg of the brimstone moth mentioned 
above, which corresponds exactly in colour with the 
wings of the moth, though the caterpillar is of a dull 
brown. 

The eggs of insects, like those of birds, have a 
shell enclosing the germ of the caterpillar with a 
peculiar matter for its nourishment, like the white 
and yolk of a bird’s egg, provided lor the nourish- 
ment of the contained chick. Tliese several parts, 
however, are very dilferent in substance from the 
eggs of birds. The shell of the bird’s egg is brittle, 
opake, chiefly composed of chalk {carboiialc of 
lime), and lined with a very thin tough membrane ; 
while in the egg of an insect the shell is not brittle, 
is transparent, contains no lime (for it is not per- 
ceptibly acted upon by diluted sulphuric acid), and 
no lining membrane can be detected. It aj)pears, 
indeed, very similar to the transparent ])ortion of a 






goose-quill in the eggs of the drinker and other 
moths which we have dissected * ; but in the eggs 
which are deposited in moist places, and in those of 
spiders, it is extremely thin t- The eggs of saw-flies, 
ants, &c., which grow larger, as we shall afterwards 
show, during the process of hatching, must possess 
an expansible shell to allow of their enlargement. 
The yolk and white in the eggs of birds are 
separated from each other by a very fine membran- 
ous bag in which each is contained ; but in the 
eggs of insects, what answers to the yolk consists 
ol' distinct minute globules, which float in the 
white, if we may call it so, for it does not, as we 
have ascertained, coagulate in boiling water. The 
eggs of* the gypsey moth {JTypogyvma dispar), which 
we boiled, still continued partly fluid, though the 
brown matter answering to the yolk was considerably 
thickened. The portion which does not thicken by 
boiling most probably forms the first internal fluids 
of the caterj)illar, answering to the blood of quadru- 
peds. The point where the caterpillar originates, 
— answering to the scar (Cicafricvla) in the eggs of 
birds, — we can readily distinguish even by the naked 
eye in the larger sj)ecies of eggs, as it lies always 
immediately under the shell “ Having directed,’* 
says the younger Huber, “ my close attention to the 
eggs of ants, 1 remarked that they were of different 
sizes, shades, and forms. The smallest were white, 
opa(jue, and cylindrical; the largest, transparent, 
and slightly arched at both ends ; while those of 
a middle size were semi-trans])arent. On holding 
them up to the light 1 observed a sort of white ob- 
long cloud ; in some, a trans[)arent point might be 
remarked at the superior extremity ; in others, a 
clear zone above and underneath the little cloud. The 
largest presented a single opaque and whitish point 
* J. li. f Kirby and Spence, Intr. 8G. 





in their interior. There were some whose whole 
body was so remarkably clear as to allow of ray 
very distinctly observing^ the rings. On fixing atten- 
tion more closely upon the latter, I observed the egg 
open, and the larva appear in its place. Having 
compared these eggs with those just laid, 1 con- 
stantly found the latter of a milky whiteness, com- 
pletely opaque, and smaller by one-half, so that I 
had no reason to doubt of the eggs of ants receiving 
a very considerable increase in size ; that in elong- 
ating they become transparent, but do not at this 
time disclose the form of the grub, which is always 
arched^.” 

The germ in the egg of the garden spider {Epeira 
diadeina) is described by the accurate Heroldt, as 
appearing to the eye in form of a minute white point 
immediately under the shell, and in the centre of the 
circumference. On examining this j>oint more nar- 
rowly, it is found to be of a lenticular shape, and 
composed of innunierable whitish granulations of a 
globular form, difiering only from the globules of the 
yolk in being smaller and more opaque, as may be 
seen by squeezing out the contents ot a spider’s egg 
into a watch-glass. The most singular circumstance 
observed by Heroldt was, that in some species of 
spiders an egg appeared to have a considerable 
number dispersed u])on different ])oints of the surface ; 
but all these ultimately united into a single germ t. 

The eggs of the gl(»w-worm (^Lampyris noctlluca), 
as we ascertained from those dej)Osited by one which 
we found in 1829, at Rudesheim, on the Rhine, are 
golden yellow, somewhat resembling cherry-tree 
gum, while the internal substance is similar in con- 

’i' M. P. Huber on Ants, p. G8. 

f Heroldt, Exercit. dc Generat. Aranearuin in Ovo, and bis 
Unters. iiber die liildung der Wizbelloiscu Tliiere ini Eie. 




sistencc to the wax of the ears, and in form of 
g^ranules which are even externally apparent 

We are accustomed to consider the form of e^p^s 
so nearly rep^ular, that the epithet “ ep^p^-shaped” is 
frequently applied to other things, and is well under- 
stood ; but the eggs of insects, tliough most com- 
monly round, are seldom, like those of birds, 
smaller at one end than at the other, while they often 
exhibit forms never seen in the eggs of birds, — such 
as cylindric, flat, depressed, compressed, prismatic, 
angular, s(juare, boat-shajjed &c. These varieties 
of form are justly referred by Kirby and Sj^ence to 
the “ manifold wisdom” (-TroXvTroiKiXos fTo(J)iu) + of the 
Creator; but we have some hesitation in admit- 
ting their limitation of this to his “ will to vary 
forms, and so to glorify his wisdom and power in- 
dependently of other considerations §,” and think it 
would be more truly philosophic to confess our igno- 
rance where we cannot exjdain what is above our com- 
j)rehension. Paley, indeed, says, such facts “ might in- 
duce us to believe that t^arieiy itself, distinct from every 
other consideration, was a motive in the mind of the 
Creator, or with the agents of his will but he imme- 
diately adds, “ to this great variety in organized life the 
Deity has given, or j)erhaps there arises out of it, a 
corresponding variety of animal appetites, and did 
all animals covet the same element, retreat, or food, 
it is evident how much fewer could be sup])lied and 
accommodated, than w hat at present live conveniently 
together, and find a ])lentiful subsistence ||.” The 
latter remark, we think, completely destroys the 
former, and it will lead us to what appears to be 

* J. R. 

+ Dumcril, Consider G^nerales, p. 49 ; and Insect Aichitccture, 
p. 19. 

X Kplies. iii. 10. J Inlrod,, iii. p. 95. 

II Natural Theology, p. 345, 14tli ed. 





the true cause of ttie varied forms of the e^gs of 
insects. 



The cause of the eggs of birds being nearly the 
same in shape, arises, we should say, from the similar 
forms of the animals themselves ; while insects being 
much more varied in shape, require corresponding 
varieties in the forms of their eggs. The ostrich, 
the eagle, and the wren, for example, ditfer much 
more in size than in their general form ; but the 
earwig, the garden- spider, butterflies, beetles, and 
grasshoppers, dilier much more in form than in size, 
and consequently recpiire eggs of varying forms to 
contain their progeny. We confess, however, that 
we cannot always trace the mathematical causes of 
these diversities of form in the eggs of insects ; for 
though there prevails a general resemblance in those 
families and groups the most nearly allied, yet in 
others, even the sj)ecies of the same genus exhibit 
diflerences which cannot be thus accounted for. In 
two species of Vanesm, for instance, the small and 
the great tortoise-shell butterflies, which differ in 
little but size, the egg of the small is cylindric with 
eight ])rominent ribs, while that of the great is 
shaped liked a Florence flask, and quite smooth and 
uniform 

The ribbing of the eggs of the small tortoise-shell 
? der Wonderen Godb, Tab, ii. and \iii. 

£ 3 





butterfly (Vanessa urticee)^ which is also found on 
those of most of the species, leads us to remark that 
insect ec^^s are frequently sculptured in a very beau- 
tiful manner, far out-rivallinc; in elegance of design 
and delicacy of workmanship the engravings which 
we sometimes see on eggs brought from India and 
China. Some of them, when seen through a microscope, 
remind us of the fine crustaceous shells called sea- 
eggs, — a resemblance which is well exemplified in the 
egg of the angle-shades moth (Phlo^ojihora meti- 
ciUosa^ Stephens), as compared with the Clyjieaster 
of Parkinson. 



a, og;!? of the antjh'-shades inotli (^P/ilot/Dphora metiva- 

losa ) ; b, sea-egg (^Olf/pcasfcr)^ natural size. 


These channellings appear to correspond in most 
cases with the rings of the caterpillar to be hatched 
from the egg ; but the design of the other sculptures 
on these eggs has not yet been discovered by the 
investigations of naturalists, and may, probably, for 
ever elude human penetration. But though we 
cannot tell why an insect’s egg is so tastefully carved, 
we can admire the minute delicacy and extraordinary 
regularity of the markings. The egg of the meadow 
brown butterfly (Hipparchia Jurfina) crowned at 
the upper end with sculptured work in the form of 
tiles or slates, as if to defend it from injury, while 
others arc covered with a sort of net-work of ex- 
tremely minute six-sided meshes. 






fl, the of tlu* in(*H(lo\v hrowii-lnitk'rlly, inaf^iiitied ; />, egg of 
the brim s>loDi‘- moth (liumin (’rataujata), maguiHctl. 


The desifl^ii of the appeiidac^es to some sort of 
is much more apparent, and affords us some 
admirable illustrations of prospective contrivance. 
The ef!:^s of the ephemera', for example, are smooth 
and oblong, resembling carraway comfits, a form 
which Swammerdam proved to be admirably adapted 
for diffusing them through the water, where, he says, 
they are dropt by the mother insect. For this pur- 
pose he placed “ a few of them on the point of a 
knife, and letting them tall gently into water, they 
immediately separated of themselves in a very curious 
manner*.” The same accurate observer describes a 
very remarkable apiiendage in the egg of the water 
scorpion {Nepa cinerca, Linn.), an insect by no 
means rare in Britain. This egg is furnished with 
a coronet of seven bristles disposed like the down 
on the seed of the blessed thistle, (^Cejitanrea 
henedicta, Willdenow) ; and before they are de- 
posited these bristles closely embrace the egg next 
to them in the ovary like a sort of sheath, as if a 
chain of thistle-seeds were formed, by placing each 
successively in the bosom of the down of the one 
next to it. As the mother insect deposits these eggs 
in the stems of aquatic plants, the bristles, which are 
partly left on the outside, are probably intended to 
# Swamm. Book of Nature, i. 104. 





prevent the aperture from bein^ closed up by the 
rapid growth of the plant. 

Reaumur g-ives an interesting* description of a 
similar egg deposited F)y a common dnng-fly, of a 
yellowish-orange colour, (Scafop/ia^ci stercoraria^ 
Meigen). These eggs are furnished at the upper 
end with two divergent ])cgs, whicli prevent them 
from sinking into the dung where they are placed by 
the parent, while they are permitted to enter suffi- 
ciently far to preserve them moist. Both circum- 
stances are indispensable to their hatching; for 
when Reaumur took them out of the dung, they 
shrivelled up in a few hours, and when he immersed 
them farther than the two pegs, they were suffocated, 
and could not afterwards be hatched 



a, Uiing-fly {Scatophajja Stervoraria ) he, front and side 
views of its cp;g;s inajjailied j d d d, a munber of these eg^gs 
deposited in covv-dnng. 


Before we began to study the habits of insects, we 
found upon a lilac-twig, in the neighbourhood of 
London, a singular production, which we look for a 
very delicate fungus, and suj)j)osing it not to be 
common, we carefully preserved the specimens ; but 
we have since learned, with no little surprise, that 
these are the eggs of the lace-winged fly, {Chryfiopa 
reticulata^ Leach). Reaumur says that several 
naturalists have described them as fungi, which is 
not to be wondered at ; for they consist of a small 
oval greenish-white head, similar to the apple-mould. 


* Reaumur, iv. 379. 






with a white transparent stem, more than an 
inch hi^h, not thicker than a human hair, but much 
more stiff and rifrid. About a dozen of these e^^s 
are deposited in a sinorle and sometimes in a double 
line, upon the leaves and branches of elder or other 
trees and plants aboundinp^ with aphides, upon which 
the grubs feed when hatched. The footstalks of 
these eggs are formed by the mother-fly attaching a 
drop of gluten to the branch, and drawing it out 
(as a spider does its line) to the requisite length 
before the egg is deposited on its summit. As she 
uses her body for a measure, the footstalks are by 
consequence all nearly of equal length. It is evi- 
dently the design of these footstalks to place the eggs 
out of the reach of the grubs of lady-birds (Coc- 
cinellm) and of aphidivorous flies (Syrphi)y which 



Twipf of lil.if, boaring tlio etrgs of tho lac<Mvinq:(‘il fly (C/uysopa 
reticulata, LiCACu ). The fly ib ^eeu renting ou tlie lowest leaf. 






frequent the same situations and rnifs^ht devour them. 
The footstalks are so smooth and slender that these 
grubs could not climb them, as we have proved by 
experiment *, 

The ichneumon fly {Ophion luteum), whose larvfE 
feed upon the caterpillar of the puss-moth, also 
deposits eggs with a footstalk ; and what is most 
singular, these larvae, after they are hatched, during 
the first stage of their existence, continue attached 
to the shells of their eggs. It is not till the puss 
has formed her cocoon that they devour her, and spin 
their own cocoons under its covert. 

The eggs of insects do not seem to hold any 
regular proportion, so far as regards size, with their 
parent insects ; for some large moths lay very small 
eggs, while others of a small size lay eggs consi- 
derably larger. Kirby and Spence think it probable 
that eggs which produce, females are generally larger 
than male eggs ; with the exception of the hive-bee, 
in which the reverse takes place. Huber, as we 
have seen above, found the eggs of ants of different 
sizes, from which he was led to discover that they 
increase in size after being deposited. 

It has been remarked, that animals of prey are less 
prolific than those which live on vegetable food ; 
and a similar principle a})pears to hold to a certain 
extent amongst insects, the most prolific families 
belonging, with few exceptions, to those which devour 
vegetable or animal substances beginning to decay 
and putrefy. 

Thus it is that the eagle lays only two eggs, 
while the wren lays eight, and the pheasant twenty- 
four; and in the same way the dragon-flies (Libellu- 
ILna, Mac Leay), do not lay above two dozen eggs, 
the lace-winged flies {Hein/'robidce) still fewer, and 
the noontide fly {McHcnibruia meridiana, Meigen) 

* J, K. f See Insect Architecture; pp. 1115—325; 6. 






only deposits two eg’g’s ; while a single plant-louse 
{Aphis), as we mentioned before from Rt^aumur, 
may be the living progenitor of 5,904,900,000 de- 
scendants, and the queen of the warrior white ants 
{Terrnes hellicosus, Smeathm.), produces 31,536,000 
eggs in one year. 

We may illustrate this subject by an extract exem- 
plifying the proportionate fecundity of the animal king- 
dom in general. “ Compared with the rest of ani- 
mated nature,” says Dalyell, “ infusion animalcula 
are surely the most numerous : next are worms, in- 
sects, or fislies ; amphibia and serpents, birds, quad- 
rupeds ; and last is man. The human female produces 
only one at a time, that after a considerable interval 
from birth, and but few during her whole existence. 
Many quadrupeds are subject to similar laws ; some 
are more fertile, and their fecundity is little, if at all, 
inferior to that of certain birds, for they will produce 
ten or twenty at once. Several birds will breed fre- 
quently in a year, and have more than a single egg 
at a time. How prodigious is the ditiereiice, on de- 
scending to fishes, am])hibia, reptiles, insects, and 
worms! Yet among them the numbers cannot be 
more different. According to naturalists, a scorpion 
will produce sixty-five young ; a common fly will lay 
144 eggs ; a leech, 150; and a spider, 170. I have 
seen a hydrachna j)roduce 600 eggs, and a female 
moth 1100. A tortoise, it is said, will lay 1000 eggs, 
and a frog 1100. A gall insect lias laid 5000 eggs ; a 
shrimp, 6000 ; and 10,000 have been found in the 
ovary, or what is supposed to be that part, of an 
ascarides. One naturalist found above 12,000 eggs 
in a lobster, and another above 21,000. An insect 
very similar to an ant {Mvtilla?) has produced 
80,000 in a single day ; and Leeuwenhoeck seems 
to compute four millions in a crab. Many fishes, 
and those which in some countries seldom occur, 





produce incredible numbers of ep^g;s. Above 36,000 
have been counted in a herrinsf ; 38,000 in a smelt ; 
1,000,000 in a sole ; 1,130,000 in a roach ; 3,000,000 
in a species of sturgeon ; 342,000 in a carp ; 
383,000 in a tench ; 546,000 in a mackerel ; 992,000 
in a perch ; and 1,357,000 in a flounder. But of all 
fishes hitherto discovered, the cod seems the most 
fertile. One naturalist computes that it produces 
more than 3,686,000 e^^s; another 9,000,000 ; and 
a third 9,444,000. Here, then, are eleven fishes, 
which probably, in the course of one season, will 
produce above thirteen millions of eg^s ; which is a 
number so astonishinc^ and immense, that, without 
demonstration, we could never believe it true^'.’' 

The fecundity of insects is no less remarkable than 
that of Ashes. In some instances, particularly in 
those already mentioned, the numbers ])roduced from 
the eg'gs of a siuirle female, far exceed the progeny 
of any other class of animals. It is this extraor- 
dinary fecundity which, under favourable circum- 
stances, produces countless swarms of insects that 
give origin to the opinion of their being sponta- 
neously generated by imtrcfactiou, or brought in 
some mysterious way by blighting winds. The 
numerous accidents, however, to which insects are 
exposed from the deposition of the eg'g till their Anal 
transformation, tend to keep their numbers from 
becoming excessive, or to reduce them when they 
are at any time more than commonly numerous. 

Introd. Observ. to Spallanzani, xiv. 





Matornnl Carn of Inserts in deposltinp their Efi-jrg. — Solitary Bees. — 
'W.isps. — Ichneumons. — Moths. — Butterflies. — Gnats. — Mistakes of In- 
stinct. 


Lord Katmes, in his ‘Gentleman Farmer/ men 
tions tlie singular fact that tlie female sheep, weeks 
before yeaning', selects some sheltered spot where 
she may drop her lamb with the most comfort and 
security ; and when forcibly prevented from gr<-)inp^ 
there, she manifests the utmost uneasiness. But 
this instance of prospectively ])roviding for a future 
progeny is exemplified much more strikingly in most 
insects, in conse(|uence of the great difference of 
their economy compared with that of other animals. 
The .shee[) and other mammalian (piadrupeds suckle 
their young, and watch over them with the most 
affectionate care during the earlier and more help- 
less stage of their existence. This, on the contrary, 
is oidy found in a few cases among insects, such as 
the social bees, wasjis, and ants ; for the greater 
number of species never live to see their descend- 
ants. The numerous families, indeed, of moths, 
butterflies, and other winged iiusects, seldom live 
more than a few days after they have deposited 
their eggs, though some other species probably live 
many months. The latter, however, are only ex- 
ceptions to the general rule, that insects, after depo- 
siting their eggs, very soon die. The wisdom of 
Providence, therefore, has endowed female insects 
with the most wonderful acuteness and skill in anti- 
cipating the wants of their young, when they escape 






from the egg, and have no mother to direct or pro- 
vide for them. 

We have numerous beautiful instances of this in 
the solitary bees and wasps, which perform indefa- 
tigable labours in hewing out nests in wood and 
stone, and building structures of clay, leaves, cotton, 
and other materials, as we have elsewhere detailed 
at length^. But we recently met with an exam])le of 
this, which we shall briefly notice. A small solitary 
bee, {Chtiodoiricf for isoinne not so large as the 
domestic fly, and more slender in the body, instead 
of digging into the ground like its congeners f, 
bores a hole in a tree about the diameter of a wheat 
straw, and, when empty, resembling externally the 
timber holes of the furniture beetle (^Anobii/m per- 
iinax)^ for which, indeed, we at first mistook them, 
till we were undeceived by seeing the little bees going 
in and out. When the work is completed, however, 
the hole can only be detected by a practised eye, for 
it is neatly covered with a substance, the nature of 
which remains to be discovered. ] t is a grey semi- 
transparent membrane, somewhat resembling the 
slime of a snail when dried ; but whether it is secreted 
by the bee like wax, or gathered from plants like 
propolis, we cannot tell. As we had a whole colony 
of tliese little wood-boring bees in the stumj) of a 
growing poplar at JLee, we cut out several of the 
perforations, in order to examine the interior. These 
we found more than an inch deej), and filled to the 
brim with a thin whitish honey ; but, like those of 
the larger car])enter bees of a different genus {Xylo- 
copa), they were divided by several partitions of the 
same membranous material. 

The circumstance, however, which induces us to 
give these details here, relates to the eggs deposited 


? See Insect Architecture, pp. 24 — G4, &c. f Ibid.p. 43. 





in these sins^ular perforations. It is obvious, 
if the epr^s were laid in the midst of the liquid 
honey, that they would either be prevented from 
hatching, or the c^rub would be suflbcated in the first 
stag;e of its existence. Every chamber of the 
little nest is so full of honey, that it is difficult to 
divine how this is to be avoided, and it was only 
after repeated and anxious researches that we found 
a solution of the ditliculty. It is this : the mother- 
bee, when she has filled a chamber with honey, ^lues 
a single e^£^, a hair’s breadth or two above its sur- 
face, and at a similar minute distance she stretches 
the membranous partition, leavinsc between this and 
the surface of the honey just sufficient space, and no 
more, for the newly hatched 2j“rnb to crawl all round. 
On openinp; one of these perforations after the grub 
had been some time hatched, we found it keeping 
aloof from the lioney, and resting on the upper 
margin, from which it seemed to have stretched its 
head when feedingto the centre, instead of eating at 
the circumference. The honey was also then be- 
come thicker in consistence, and, in consequence of 
what had been consumed, formed a hollow cup^. 

Reaumur describes the nest of a bee of the 
same family (Andrrna cineraria, Fabr.), which is 
found in the neighbourhood of London, and differs 
from the preceding in making’ ])erf(>rations, not in 
trees, but in the ground, and lining these witli the 
membranaceous substance that comj)oscs the parti- 
tions and the outer covering. He takes no notice, 
however, of the prospective ingenuity with which 
the egg is ])laced above the surface of the fluid 
honeyt. 

The various species of nests thus prepared by the 
parent insects for depositing their eggs, arc not 
inerely intended for holding provisions and shel- 
J. ii. Reaumur, JVlcMii., vol. \i. p. 131, 

F 2 






tering^ the youngs g^ruh from the inclemencies of the 
weather, or from beings preyed upon by birds. There 
are more insidious and no less destructive enemies 
than these to guard against. This we shall imme- 
diately show from the economy of other families of 
tile same order, whose proceedings also strictly 
illustrate the subject of maternal care. In popular 
works on natural history the insects alluded to are 
indiscriminately called Ichneumojia, a name signifying 
Pryers^ and first given by Aristotle to wasps. But 
recently this term has been considerably restricted, 
and therefore does not jiroperly apply to many 
insects whose economy resembles the true ichneu- 
mons. It is the practice, then, of a very great num- 
ber of insects, of dilferent orders and families, to take 
advantage of the labours of other insects in pro- 
viding for their progeny, in the same way as the 
common cuckoo and the cow-bunting of America 
(Ember iza pecoris, Wilson) lay their eggs in the 
nests of other birds. The venerable Dr. Jeuner was 
the first to publish^, what had long been known to 
our peasants, that the young cuckoo, when hatched, 
soon ejects from the nest into which it has been 
surreptitiously introduced the eggs or young of its 
foster parent ; but the insects under notice act still 
more ungratefully. They do not, indeed, live upon 
the honey or other ]>rovisiou stored up by the 
builder of the nest for the use of her own young, 
since, being all carnivorous, this is not to their taste; 
but they permit tlie rightful owner of the food to 
feast and fatten on it, that they may make of him a 
more substantial repast. The great numbers of dif- 
ferent species of insects which are reared in this sin- 
gular manner would appear almost incredible to one 
who had not studied their economy ; but it cannot 
fail to meet the young entomologist at the very 
? Phil. Trans, for 17c>8, p.219. 






outset of his studies ; for it is scarcely possible for many 
broods of insects to be reared without observing;* it. 

The insidious proceeding's of these cuckoo in- 
sects, as we may not inappropriately call them, give 
rise to remarkable displays of ingenuity on the part 
of the mothers whose progeny is exposed to their 
felonious designs. It is the usual practice of the 
solitary bees and wasps to leave the whole task of 
constructing and provisioning tlie nest to the fe- 
male, the male, like an American Indian, taking 
no ])art in those domestic concerns. In this case, 
though she is seldom absent from the spot for 
more than two or three minutes at a time, some 
prying Chrysis or Taohina often glides into her 
domicile, and finds time to deposit its egg and 
to escape before her return. Other solitary bees ex- 
hibit both more civilization and more cunning ; for 
the male assists, at least, in watching and guarding 
the nest, if he does not lend a hand in its construc- 
tion. The ])roceedings of one of these solitary bees 
{Hallctus fiilvocinctiifi, Stepti.), indigenous in the 
vicinity of London, has frequently fallen under our 
observation. It constructs a gallery, having on the 
outside only a single perpendicular passage, but 
branching out into seven or eight, at the bottom of 
each of which is placed a globule of pollen kneaded 
up with honey about the size of a pea, where an egg 
is deposited. Walckenacr, who observed these in- 
sects with great care, remarks, that they only work 
during the night in making their galleries ; and 
our observations so far agree with his, that though we 
have observed some dozens of their nests, we never 
saw them at work in the day. Instead of this, 
either the male or the female always remains at the 
entrance of the nest (which its head exactly fills) 
ready to give no friendly reception to any enemy 
that may venture to intrude. We have often seen, 




indeed, the ruby-tail fly (Chrysis on ap- 

proachinp; this vigilant sentinel, fly off in all haste, 
with evident fear of the consequences. But, as 
Waickenaer justly remarks, should the partner of 
its cares return from a foraging excursion, and take 
two or three circular flights around the entrance to 
announce its arrival, the sentinel bee immediately 
makes way by withdrawing into the interior. Should 
the sentinel bee be absent through any cause from 
its post, and the forager enter without announcing 
its arrival, it is immediately driven back and pu- 
nished for so unpardonable a breach of etiquette^. 

Another circumstance worthy of notice in the 
manners of these bees (Halicti) is, that they fly 
directly into the entrance of their nests without ever 
alighting upon any contiguous object, a circum- 
stance which is attributed by Waickenaer to their 
fear of enemies, numbers of which are always lurk- 
ing about with evil intent. More than one species 
of spider and several sorts of wasps lie in wait to 
make prey of them, besides those we have men- 
tioned as being on the alert to introduce their eggs 
into their nest. But their most formidable enemy is 
a solitary wasp {Crrceris ornata}, numbers of 
which make their nests in the very midst of their 
colonies. The wasps surround the interior margin 
of their holes with a rampart of sand, agglutinated 
with a whitish mortar, and well polished. The gal- 
lery is five inches deep, somewhat in the form of an S, 
in which the female lays her eggs, with a store of 
provisions for her future young, consisting of the 
living bodies of her bee neighbours, the \)00y Halicti, 
It is only on fine days, between eleven and four 
o’clock, that the mother wasp engages in the chase 
of the bees, and may be seen flying with the most 
lively ardour around their nests. When an unfortii- 
? Wulck. Mem. dcs Abeilles SoUt. Paris, 1817. 





natc bee ventures at this time to approach its home, 
the wasp pounces upon it as a hawk would pounce 
upon a sparrow, seizes it by the back of the neck, 
carries it to tlic ground, and placing it by the side of 
a small stone or clod of earth, she turns it round upon 
its back. Then standing upon its belly in an attitude 
of conscious triumph, she darts her sting into the 
lower })art of its head, in such a manner as to stupify 
it, but not to kill it outright. As soon as she has in 
this manner laid in a sufficient store of half-dead 
bees, she closes up the entrance 

Several species of this family of wasps (Cerceris 
avrila, Latr., and C. ijitadrifasriata^ Bose) are 
of essential service to agriculturists by provisioning 
their nests w itli destructive weevils {Ourcvlioiiidai^ 
so injurious to orchards and nurseries t* Other 
families of this order in a similar way provide for 
their ])rogeny a supply of living insects of different 
species, of which interesting accounts have been 
given by more than one naturalist J. 

The insects, liowever, of these marauding tribes 
are not permitted to carry on their depredations on 
their more peaceful neighbours with impunity ; for 
nature has j)ro\ided other races of animals to make 
prey of them. We do not allude merely to birds 
and reptiles, which devour as many of those carni- 
vorous wasps as they can catcli ; for there is also a 
numerous tribe of insects who have the address to 
foil them at their own weapons. All the careful 
stratagems of the mason wasp {Odynenismvrarhis, 
Latr.), in rearing her turretted outworks to defend 
her premises while she excavates her galleries §, 
often prove ineffectual in guarding against the insi- 

* Walck, ; Lutrcillc, Annales du Museum, tom. xiv. i and 
Pose, Ann. dc 1’ Aerie., vol. liii. 

f Bose, Ann. de I’Agric., vol. liii. 

X See Insect Arcliiteclure, pp. 2G — 33. § Ibid., pp, 30 — 32, 


 

dions intrusion of a common ichneumon fly (Pimpla 
manift stator i Gravenhorst), easily known by its be- 
inc^ black, with the lea^s red. This ichneumon some- 
times pays a visit to the nest of the wasp before it is 
completed, for Reaumur has seen one peep into the 
entrance and then start back as if afraid of its 
depth ; but, for the most part, she waits patiently till 
the wasp, haviiuj^ laid in a store of caterpillars for 
the youno* one, closes up the doorway with a bar- 
ricado of kneaded clay. It is this very barricado 
which the ichneumon determines to assail in order to 
find a nest ready prepared and stocked with provi- 
sions for her own progeny. With lliis design she 
makes use of her ovipositor, which is as admirably 
adapted to the purpose as those of the saw-flies or 
the tree-hoppers (Cicada!'), 

The ovipositor of all the true ichneumons (lok- 
jieumoTiidai) is similarly constructed, consisting of a 
borer enclosed in a sheath, which opens through its 
whole length like the legs of a pair of compasses. It 
is longer or shorter, and stronger or more slender, 
according to the substances which it may be neces- 
sary to penetrate when the eggs are deposited. The 
description, therefore, of the ovipositor of the one 
just alluded to (P. manifcstator) will be sufficient to 
give the reader a distinct notion of the otliers. 
Being intended to penetrate into the deep holes dug 
by mason wasps, the ovipositor of this insect is 
nearly three inches long, and, as it is not concealed 
in the body like those of gall flies, it a])pears like a 
tail formed of a long black bristle. On examining 
this a little more narrowly, we find that what 
appears to be a single bristle is in reality three, two 
side ones forming a sheath, and tlie middle one a 
borer or brad-awl for piercing the clay barricado of 
the mason wasp’s nest. The termination of the 
borer is not, liowever, smooth, like that of a brad- 






awl, but toothed like a saw, only the teeth, seven or 
eic!;ht, are not oblique, but perpendicular, a structure 
better fitted for acting upon clay, as the teeth will 
not become so readily elop^ged, and the instrument 
will be more easily retracted. The figures will make 
tiiis more perspicuous than the best description. 



wasps {Odyneri) more elFectiially, Reaumur made 
an artificial ves])iary of sand and mortar upon a 
wall, which at the same time *2:avc him an excellent 
opportunity of observing: the manceiivres of the ich- 
neumons. “ I perceived,’’ he tells us, “ one of these 
ichneumons, at the instant it aliglited on the spot 
under which so many of the little green caterpillars 
had been stored up by the wasps. Its long tail, 
which it carried horizontally, a]:)peared to form but 
one bristle, though it was really coin])osed of three ; 
and though it carried it on a line with its body, it 
soon showed me that it was capable both of raising 
and lowering it, as well as of bending it in various 
directions, and in dittcrent proportions to its length. 
It moved its ovipositor so as to bring it into a bent 
position under its body, ])rotiMiding it even beyond 
its own head ; taking care to direct it into the barri- 





cadoed nest of the mason wasp. But although the 
insect appeared not to be disturbed by my observa- 
tions, yet I was unable to perceive whetiier the 
toothed portion of the borer was pushed beyond the 
sides of the sheath. What I did see, however, con- 
vinced me that the instrument was worked in a 
manner well adapted to make its way through the 
mortar; ior she turned it half round alternately 
from right to left and from left to right, as a car- 
penter would his brad-awl, and employed altogether 
more than a quarter of an hour bef ore she succeeded 
in penetrating to a sufficient depth 


icnncuinoii nies oviposiimj?. rt ^r, an K-hnounioti fl b h, \ts 
oviptKsitoi. r, an irhiuMiinon, wliirh has just Ijured through’ the 
dosed substance ot a sand wasp’s nest at e. into wliidi her ovi- 
positor, (i, descends to the coil of caterpillars at /, where the 
eiju IS laid. 

* KC‘aumur,Meni, vi. p. 304. 







Another parasite (Pimpla strobilella, Fabr.) is 
armed with a long ovipositor, with which it deposits 
its eggs in larvm tliat burrow in the fruit-cones of 
the tir. 

The intrusion of these parasite eggs into the nests 
of insects is olten an exceedingly puzzling circum- 
stance to naturalists, in their earlier researches ; and 
sometimes even deceives those ol‘ considerable expe- 
rience and acuteness into the supposition that the 
insects ultimately produced are in reality those of 
the original builder of the nest. These deceptions 
frequently occur in the numerous species of vege- 
table galls, originating chiefly in the economy of a 
beautillil famil\ of insects (Clicdcididfe, Westwood). 
When the gall-fl y {Cynips) has deposited its eggs on 
the bud or the leaf of a plant in such a manner as to 
insure their being surrounded with a thick coating of 
vegetable substance, they are not on that account se- 
cure from the insects just alluded to ; for the Chalcis^ 
armed by nature with an instrument for the purpose, 
can penetrate in any direction the largest oak-apple 
or bedeguar of the rose^. The most obvious dis- 
tinction between these parasites and the true gall-flies, 
is, that in the latter the ovipositor is partly concealed, 
while in the former it is altogether external, like the 
ichneumons in the preceding figure; but this dis- 
tinction is of course wanting in tlie male insects. It 
was the observation of difl'erent species of insects, 
produced in this manner from the same sort of gall, 
which betrayed the illustrious Redi into the fanciful 
notion of their being generated by a vegetative and 
sensitive soul in the plant itself, to which also he 
attributed the generation of the grubs found in nuts, 
cherries, and other fruits. “There is nothing,’’ as 
Reaumur justly remarks, “ more fitted to humi- 
liate the best rcasoners, and to inspire them with a 
* bee Insect Architecture, pp. 375 — 384. 






well-founded distrust of novel opinions, than to see 
a man like Redi, who had declared open war 
a«^ainst popular prejudices, and successfully com- 
bated many of them, thus adopting a notion 
so improbable, or (to use a stronger term) so 
pitiable^.” It was Redi’s countryman, Malpighi, 
who first discovered the genuine history of gall-flies; 
but when we consider that from the bedeguar gall of 
the rose alone no less than three different species of 
insects may ])roceed, two of which {Call imone he- 
de^iiarisy txnd Enrytoma stigma, Stephens) are para- 
sites, Redi had some cause for being ])uzzled to 
explain the ])henomena. 

Two other distinguished naturalists, Goedart and 
Ray, found no less difflciilfy in accounting for the 
progeny of ichneumons issuing from the caterpillars 
and chrysalides of butterflies. Riiy, indeed, Jived to 
ascertain the fact ; but he was at one time inclined to 
believe, with Goedart, that when, from iifjy defect 
or weakness. Nature could not bring a caterpillar to 
a butterfly, in order tliat her aim might not be en- 
tirely defeated, she stopped short, and formed them 
into insects of a smaller size, and less perfect struc- 
ture t- M. Goedart oven persuaded liimself, says 
Reaumur sarcastically, that tie had observed the ca- 
terpillar interesting itself for its infant progeny, by 
weaving for them an cnvelo])c of silk, it was also 
fancied that what was wanting in size in the para- 
site flies, when compared with theex])ected butterfly, 
was made up in their greater numbers w ith as 
much probability, says Reaumur, as that a cat would 
kitten a number of mice. The simjile facts which we 
shall now state, will point out the origin of these 
strange mistakes. 

^ Reaumur, Mem. iii., p.47G. 
f Ray, Hist. Ills., Pref. XV., and Cant. 137. 

I Goedart, quoted by Reaumur, vol. ii., p. 415. 





It must have occurred to the least attentive ob- 
servers of the very common cabbage caterpillar 
(Poiitia Brassicep^, that when it ceases to feed, and 
leaves its native cabbage to creep up walls and 
palings, it is often transformed into a group of little 
balls of silk, of a fine texture and a beautiful canary 
yellow colour ; from each of which there issues, in 
process of time, a small four-winged fly (Micro- 
gaster glomeratva^ Spinola), of a black colour, ex- 
cept the legs, which are yellow. By breeding these 
flies in a state of confinement, and introducing them 
to some cabbage caterpillars, their proceedings in de- 
positing their eggs may be observed. We have more 
than once seen one of these little flies select a cater- 
pillar, and ])erch upon its back, holding her ovipositor 
ready brandished to plunge between the rings which 
she seems to prefer. When she has thus begun 
laying her eggs, she does not readily take alarm ; 
but, as Reaumur justly remarks, will permit an ob- 
server to approach her with a magnifying glass of a 
very short focus. Having de]>osited one egg, she 
withdraws her ovipositor, and again jdunges it with 
another egg into a ditferent part of the body of the 
caterpillar, till she has laid in all about thirty eggs. 
It is not a little remarkable, that the poor caterpillar, 
whose body is thus pierced with so many wounds, 
seems to bear it very patiently, and does not turn 
upon the fly, as he would be certain to do upon 
another caterpillar should it venture to ])inch him ; 
a circumstance by no means unusual. Sometimes, 
indeed, he gives a slight Jerk, but tlie fly does not 
appear to be at all incommoded by the intimation 
that her presence is disagreeable. 

The eggs, it may be remarked, are thrust suffi- 
ciently deep to prevent their being thrown off’ when 
the caterpillar casts its skin ; and, being in due time 
hatched, the grubs feed in concert on the living 
body of the caterpillar. The most wonderful circum- 



 

stance, indeed, of the whole phenomenon, is the in- 
stinct with which the grubs are evidently guided to 
avoid devouring any vital part, so that they may 
not kill the caterpillar, as in that case it would be 
useless to them for food. When full grown, they 
even eat their way through the skin of the cater- 
pillar without killing it ; though it generally dies in 
a few days without moving far from the place where 
the grubs have spun their group of silken cocoons 
in which to pass the winter. 






Generation of Ichni-uinons. a a, the caterpillar of Fontia Bras- 
siccr. b, the epfjs of that butterfly to a leaf, c, Minogaster 

glomeriifus, maffnilied. d d d, a inaf^nified view of a dissected 
caterpillar, in whose body a number of ichneumon caterpillars 
have been hatched. silk cocoons t.pun by the ichneumons. 
f, grubs spuming cocoons, grubs eating tneir way out of the 
caterpillar. 





But it is not only in the nests of bees and wasps, 
or in the bodies of caterpillars, that these provident 
mothers contrive to deposit their e 2 ^g;s; for many of 
them are so very minute, as to find in the eg^s them- 
selves of larger insects a sufficient magazine of food 
for their progeny ; and accordingly, piercing the shell 
with their ovipositor, they thrust their own into the 
perforation. The most common instance of this 
which we have remarked, occurs in the eggs of 
spiders ; patches of which may be found almost 
everywhere under the cross bars of palings, and the 
copings and corners of walls. Though spiders, for the 
most part, not only cover their eggs with a thick 
envelope of silk, but also remain near to protect them 
from enemies, yet a small four-winged fly (^Cryptus, 
Fabr.), and, if we are not mistaken, two-winged flies 
(Muscid(B, Leach), also, outbrave the danger of being 
caught and immolated by the mother spider, and 
introduce their eggs either into or among those of 
their powerful enemy. These sj)ider’s eggs are 
subsequently feasted uj)on by the progeny of the 
flies, — a very natural reprisal for the ravages com- 
mitted by this carnivorous race upon the whole gene- 
ration of their fellows. That the mother flies actually 
pierce the eggs of other insects was observed before 
the year 1730, by the accurate Vallisnieri, who says, 
“ I have seen with my own eyes a certain kind of 
wild flies deposit their eggs upon other eggs, and 
bore and pierce others with an ovipositor {aculeus), 
by means of which they have introduced the egg 
Count Zinanni, another Italian naturalist, told Rthiu- 
mur, that, his attention being attracted by a small 
ichneumon fluttering about the eggs of butterflies, 
he soon observed it alight and fix upon one of these 
eggs ; and, without being incommoded by his ob- 
serving her proceedings through a strong magnifier, 
* Vallisnieri, Lettere, 80. 


 


she bent her ovipositor, and plunG;ed it into the 
She performed the same operation upon many 
other e^g;s, which he carefully put under cover ; and 
in about three weeks had from them a brood of flies 
of the same species with the one whose remarkable 
proceedinfl:s he had watched*. 

A writer in the Magazine of Natural History 
(Jan. 1S30), gives an account of a numerous brood 
of a very minute species of ichneumon, supposed to be 
an egg parasite (Platygastcr ovvlorvm ? Stephens), 
which was produced from the caterpillars of the large 
white cabbage butterfly (Po/ii.ia Brassicce). Hav- 
ing enclosed a number of these in a wire cage, five 
or six of them soon left off feeding, and crawled 
about the cage. “ June 30,’’ he proceeds, “ I found 
them resting on large clusters of minute cocoons of 
an ovate form, the largest not exceeding two lines in 
length, and about the thickness of a caraway- 
seed. Each was enveloped with a fine yellow 
silk, resembling that of the common silkworm 
{Bomhyx Mori). On these clusters the caterpillars 
remained the whole day without moving. Fresh 
leaves were given to the rest ; but in the course of 
the day they all left off feeding, crawled about the 
cage, but underwent no other change. Early next 
day, I found they had, with the exception of two or 
three, all ejected the parasitical progeny they had 
been impregnated with; and, like the preceding 
caterpillars, continued resting on the clusters they 
had formed: the remaining three followed the ex- 
ample of the others ; and the last operation of these 
devoted caterpillars v.as to envelope each cluster in 
a veil formed of the most delicate webf.” It is 
not a little interesting to remark, that this circum- 
stance corroborates the statement before given from 

vol. vi. p. 297. 

f Loudon's Mag. Nat. Hi&t. iii.51. 





Goedart, and disbelieved by Reaumur and subse- 
quent naturalists : but we think it so very extra- 
ordinary, that we are much inclined to think the 
observer (T. H. of Clapham) has uiiwittinirly fallen 
into mistake. “ Some of them,’’ he continues, “ ex- 
ecuted the task; but the greater part were too feeble 
to complete it; and in the course of three days 
more they became motionless, and gradually, one 
after another, fell shrivelled and exhausted to the 
bottom of the cage.” Some of the clusters contained 
upwards of a hundred cocoons, and others not more 
than sixty. By July 12, the perfect flies made 
their appearance by opening a rsort of lid at the end 
of each cocoon. The flies seem to differ little, 
except in size, from the common ichneumon of the 
same caterpillar {MicrogasUr glomeratus) ; but, sup- 
posing them to be in the first instance egg parasites, 
they must have been deposited among, not in the 
eggs of the butterfly. 

The minuteness of some of these parasite insects 
may be partly conceived from the fact mentioned by 
Bonnet, — that the egg of a butterfly, not bigger than 
a pin’s head, is sufficient to nourish several of them ; 
for out of twenty such eggs of butterflies, a pro- 
digious number (une qvantiia prodigiaise) were 
evolved *. Few species of the plant-lice (Aphides) 
are a great deal larger than the butterfly’s eggs de- 
scribed by Bonnet ; yet these also have a parasitical 
enemy (Microgaster Aphidvm, Spinola), which 
plunges its eggs in their bodies ; but the larva?, 
when hatched, are by no means safe, being liable 
to the attacks of another fly of the same family 
(Gelis agilis, Thunberg), as Dr. Turton informs 
ust. 

? Bonnet, CEuvres, 8vo. ii. 344. Kirhy, referring to this pas- 
sage, assigns, by mistake, only two to each egg. introd. i. 342. 

f Transl. of Linn, iii. 48, 




It is not common, however, for the ichneumon 
flies to deposit their e^g^s in the bodies of perfect 
insects, as in most cases they prefer the ep^f^s, larvae, 
or pupae; but instances are on record of their g^rubs 
haviiif^ t)een found in the former. The troublesome 
cock-roach (Blatta) is selected by a parasite fly 
(Evania apendi^adcr, Fabr.), as remarkable in 
form as it is rare in occurrence, in Britain at least. 
It has been found in the vicinity of London ; but, 
were it abundant, it mifrht tend to reduce the num- 
bers of these black beetles, as they are incorrectly 
termed, the pests of the kitchen. 



Magnified view of a parasite fly (Evania npendlga&tar)* 

An insect parasite, still more singular in form, 
and of still rarer occurrence, was discovered by 
Kirby, above thirty years a^o, on the black bronze 
bee {A?idrcna nigroamea, Stephens). “ I had pre- 
viously,” he remarks, “ more tlian once observed 
upon other species somethin p; that I took to be a kind 
of Acarus^ which a])peared to be imrnoveably fixed 
just at the inosculations of the dorsal segments of the 
abdomen. At length, finding three or four upon a 
specimen of this bee, I determined not to lose the 
opj)ortunity of taking one off to examine and de- 
scribe ; but what was my astonishment, when, upon 
my attempting to disengage it with a pin, I drew 
forth from the body of the bee a white fleshy larva, 





a quarter of an inch in leng^th, tlie head of which I 
had mistaken for an acarus ! {hec-lousc) . After I 
had examined one specimen, I attempted to extract 
a second ; and the reader may imagine how greatly 
my astonishment was increased, when, after I had 
drawn it out hut a little way, I saw its skin burst, 
and a head as black as ink, with large staring eyes 
and antennae, consisting of two branches, break forth, 
and move itself briskly from side to side. It looked 
like a little imp of darkness just emerged from the 
infernal regions. My eagerness to set free from its 
confinement this cxtraordinaiy animal may be easily 
conjectured. Indeed I was impatient to become 
better acquainted with so singular a creature. When 
it was completely disengaged, and I had secured it 
from making its escai)c, 1 set myself to examine it as 
accurately as possible ; and I found, after a careful 
inquiry, that I had got a nondescript, whose very 
class seemed dubious^.” Of the manner in which 
this singular insect (^Stylops) introduced its eggs 
into the body of a bee nothing is yet known, and its 
rarity puts it out of the reach of the most eager 
observers. Several species of the same genus have 
since been found near London, and an allied genus 
{Xenos) has since been discovered parasite in wasps 
by Professor Peck, in America. 



Bee Parasite. {Stylops Molitta-, Kirby.) 

De Geer was one day much surprised to ob- 
serve a small white grub sucking the body of a young 
spider {Epeira diademei), having attached itself 

* Monogr. Ap, Angl, ii, 113. 





firmly to the abdomen. Having pnt it into a crlass, 
he remarked a few days afterwards, that the spider 
had spun the outline of a vertical web, had stretched 
threads from the top to the bottom, and from one 
side to the other of the «;lass, togi;ether with the rays 
of a net, but without the circular threads. The most 
sinj^ular circumstance was, that the parasite orub 
was suspended in the centre of this web, where it 
spun its cocoon, while the exhausted spider had 
fallen dead to the bottom of the p;lass*. 

These examples will suffice to prove the anxious 
care of the mother insects in depositing their eggs 
where their progeny may find abundance of food. 
The tact with which they discover this is one of those 
mysteries of nature which are api)arently beyond 
the penetration of man ever to discover; for it is 
seldom that the mother insect herself feeds upon the 
same, or similar substances, as her larvsc, and yet 
she is well aware of what is appropriate for them. 
The ichneumon flies, whose history we have just 
been sketching, eat little, except, perliaps, a small 
quantity of honey from the nectary of a flower, 
and yet they know that their ])rogeny must be 
fed by living insects; the butterflies and moths, 
whose scanty repast also consists solely of the honey 
of flowers, never make a provision ol‘ this for their 
caterpillars, but deposit their eggs on plants and 
trees where their young may eal abundantly of 
leaves or other parts “ after their kind.’’ In making 
these selections, each sj)ecies exhibits some pecu- 
liarity well worthy of observation. Some confine 
themselves to one particular sort of plant, and never 
select any other ; some make choice indifferently of 
two or three sorts ; while others take a wider range, 
and fix upon plants of very dilferent qualities. To 
exemplify this, we might mention some thousands of 


* De Geer, Memoires, vol.ii, p. 8G3. 





instances, but it will be sufficient to say, that wc never 
find the ecf-^^s of the small tortoise-shell butterfly 
(V anessa vrticed) on any plant but the nettle; its 
cong:ener, the painted lady {Cynthia cardni, 
Stephens), thoujrh it prefers the spear-thistle, is 
sometimes found on the nettle, as is the comma 
{Vanessa C. Albim), thou«^h it seems to prefer the 
hop ; while we have found the ep;p;s of the lackey 
moth {Clisiocampa neusiria) on almost every bush 
and tree, from the sweetbriar to the oak, in woods, 
hedges, orchards, and e^ardcns, without any apparent 
preference beyond the accident of the mother moth 
alii^htinp^ on a y)articular branch. In the same way 
almost all those which deposit their cp,*p;s on salad 
plants, such as the g^reat tipper {Areiia Caja^ Ste- 
phens), will as readily select the nettle as the lettuce 
or dandelion 

It is worthy of remark that our native insects fre- 
quently make choice of exotic plants, by means of 
the instinctive tact which enables them to discover 
such as suit their pxirpose. The death’s-head hawk 
moth {Achcrontia Atropos), for example, is now 
usually found on the potatoe and the jasmine, but 
previous to the introduction of these into Britain, it 
probably confined itself to the bitter sweet {Solanum 
dulcamara). We have known the moth taken in 
Ayrshire, where this plant is abundant. An instance 
in point has just occurred to us in one of the minute 
leaf-miners. Upon the leaf of an exotic plant 
{Cineraria cruenta) kept in a g’arden-pot in our 
study, we were not a little surprised to observe the 
tortuous wiiiding;s of a miner, considerably dilferent 
in the outline from any we had before examined. 
ThouG;h it was so late as December, also, the g;rub 
seemed very active, and would sometimes mine nearly 
half an inch of the leaf in the course of the day. It 
J. R. 






was transformed within the leaf, in a few days, into 
a pupa, and beinp^pntundera bell-g^lass, a small two- 
winged fly (Tephritis SerratulfB ? ) made its appear- 
ance in about a fortnight. In some garden-pots, in 
another room of the same house, were exotic plants 
of the American groundsel (Senecio elegans), the 
leaves of which were crowded with miners, whose 
paths, however, were so very different as to indicate 
a different species; but upon their transformation 
into perfect insects, they turned out exactly the same. 
They proved, indeed, to be the same with the leaf- 
miners of the swine-thistle (^Sonchus olcraceus). 



localities op various species. 





numerous specimens of which we collected in the 
immediate vicinity ; but the flies of these, from their 
previous exposure to the cold out of doors, did not 
appear till a month later. It is worthy of remark, 
that the two exotic plants are of the same natural 
family {ComposittB) ; yet, notwithstanclinjr the simi- 
larity of the common groundsel {Senecio vulgaris) to 
the American, not one leaf of the former was found 
mined, though it is an abundant native plant*. 

It is no less remarkable, that the mother insects 
of the larvae which live solitary and those which 
live in society take care to deposit their eggs with 
regard to the respective destinations of their pro- 
geny. In our earlier studies we remember being much 
interested with Harris’s description of the admirable 
butterfly {Vanessa Atalanta)^ flitting rapidly and 
stealthily from field to field, and depositing only a 
single egg on a single nettle in each, as if she were 
afraid of overstocking one place and leaving others 
uninhabited by her descendants t- Our subsequent 
observation of the manners of the insect itself has led 
us to doubt the accuracy of Harris; for we think it 
will hold as a pretty general principle, that the mo- 
thers of solitary caterpillars, for the most part, deposit 
several eggs on the same plant, often at no great 
distance, and sometimes on the same leaf. No class 
of caterpillars coidd well be considered more solitary 
than those of the hawk moths {Sphingidee, Leach), 
yet we have found from two to three eggs ol* that 
of the poplar hawk {Smerijithus Populi) upon the 
same leaf, and a similar number of the eggs of the 
puss moth, the larva of which is also solitary, on one 
leafj ; whileofthe admirable butterfly above alluded 
to, we found, in 1825, as many as from three to six 
on every plant in a small patch of about a dozen 

* J. R. ¦]• See Harris’s Aurelian, vi. fol. Lond. 1778. 

J See Insect Architecture, p. 192. 





nettles, in Copenhao^cn-fiekls, Islinp;ton. A similar 
deposition of egfgs is made by several of the mothers 
of the subsolitary caterpillars which live in the wood 
of trees. Of this we had a p^ood example in the 
clear under-wiii«' {JE^eria r/.v////br772zs),above a score 
of the small black eg*«s of which we found deposited 
in a scattered irianiier on the trunk of a single poplar 
at Lee 

The most singular disposal of eggs with which 
we are acquainted in the economy of insects, is ex- 
emplified in the common gnat {Cvlex pipiens, Linn.). 
It is admirably described by Reaumur, though it 
seems first to have been discovered by Langallo, 
who mentions it in a letter addressed to Redi, printed 
at Florence in l(i79; and by Alloa, who actually 
saw the eggs laid, and afterwards sketched a figure 
of them. Those who wish to witness this singular 
operation, must repair before five or six o’clock in the 
morning to a [)on(l or a bucket of stagnant water 
frequented l)y gnats ; when Rf'aunmr went later in 
the day he was always disa])pointed. 

The facts of this disposal of her eggs by the com- 
mon gnat, are sulTiciently curious to excite attention 
to them ; and, therefore, it is not easily to be under- 
stood how the I'ol lowing erroneous and fanciful 
account originated. “ The manner,” says Gold- 
smith, “ in which the insect lays its eggs is particu- 
larly curious ; alter having laid the proper number on 
the surface of the water, it surrounds them with a 
kind of unctuous matter, which prevents them from 
sinking, but at the same time fastens them with a 
thread to the bottom, to prevent their floating away, 
at the mercy of every breeze, from a place the warmth 
of which is proper for their production, to any other 
where the w ater may be too cold, or the animals, its 
enemies, too numerous. Thus the insects, in their 
- J. R. 





state, resemble a buoy which is fixed by an 
anchor. As they come to maturity, they sink deeper^ 
and at last, when they leave the ejro- as worms, creep 
to the bottom*,'^ This fable, which was first men- 
tioned by Pliny, is repeated verbatim by Bins^ley f- 
The impossibility of a ^iiat spiiinin«^ a thread, and 
plunfi^iufj; into the water to fix it at the bottom, never 
struck these writers. 

We are the more anxious to expose these erroneous 
accounts, from a persuasion that a tiiste for natural 
history has been more injured by numerous similar 
statements, which could not be verified by a student, 
in many popular works, than by the driest skeleton 
descriptions of those who have merely pursued Natural 
History as a science of names. 

The ])roblem of the jj^nat is to construct a boat- 
shaped raft, which will float, of e^gs heavy enoug^h to 
sink in water if dropped into it one by one. The 
eg^s are nearly of the pyramidal form of a pocket 
g*unpowder-flask, rather pointed at the upper and 
broad at the under end, with a i)rojection like the 
mouth of a bottle. The first operation of the mother 
gnat is to fix herself by the four fore-legs to the side 
of a bucket, or upon a lloating leaf, with her body 
level with and resting upon the surface of the water, 
excepting the last ring of the tail, which is a little 
raised ; she then crosses her two hind legs in form oi* 
an X, the inner opening of which is intended to form 
the scafibldiiig of her structure. She accordingly 
brings the inner angle of her crossed legs close to the 
raised part of her body and places in it an egg, covered, 
as is usual among insects, with a glutinous fluid. On 
each side of this egg she places another, all which 
adhere firmly together by means of their glue, and 
form a triangular figure thus * * , which is the stern 

* Goldsmith, Animated Nature, vi.337. 
f Bingley, Animal Biography, iii. 43^, 3d ed, 

 


of the I’aft. She proceeds in the same manner to add 
ege; after egg^ in a vertical (not a horizontal) position, 
carefully regulatings the shape by her crossed legs ; and 
as her raft increases in magnitude, she pushes the 
whole gsradually to a greater distiince, and when she 
has about half-finished she uncrosses her legs and 
places them parallel, the angle being no longer neces- 
sary for shaping the boat. Each raft consists of 
from two hundred and fifty to three hundred and 
fitly eggs, which, when all laid, float on the water 
secure from sinking, and are finally abandoned by 
the mother. They are hatched in a few days, the 
grubs issuing from the lower end ; but the boat, now 
composed of the empty shells, continues to float till it 
is destroyed by the weather^. 



Gnats form in jf their boats. «, represents the commeneement 

of the boat of egfjs ; />, the boat about two-thirds completed ; c, 
the perlfct boat resting on the surface of the water. 


Kirby justly descriljes this little vessel as resembling 
a London wherry, being sharp and higher, as sailors 
say, /ore and aft^ convex below and concave above, and 
always floating on its keel. “ The most violent agita- 
tion of the water,” he adds, “cannot sink it, and what is 
more extraordinary, and a property still a desideratum 
in our life-boats, though hollow, it never becomes 

? lU*aumur, Mem, iv, p. G21, 






filled with water, even thoiijrh exposed. To put this 
to* the test, I placed half a dozen of these Iwats upon 
the surface of a tumbler half-full of water : I then 
poured upon them a stream of that element from the 
mouth of a quart bottle held a foot above them. Yet 
after this treatment, which was so roup^h as actually 
to project one out of the p;lass, I found them floating 
as before upon their bottoms, and not a drop of w^ater 
within their cavity*.’* We have repeatedly pushed 
them to the bottom of a glass of water; but they 
always came up immediately to the surface appa- 
rently unwetted. 



Magnifipd view of flu* boat ol gnats’ 


We have contented ourselves with giving here 
only a few examples of the maternal care wliich is 
displayed by insects in dej)Ositing their eggs, though 
we could have filled the volume with similar details. 
The instincts which are thus displayed are of the 
most interesting description ; and they cannot fail to 
impress the most careless observer with a deep reve- 
rence of that providential wisdom by which they are 
implanted in these small and feeble creatures for the 
maintenance of their race. But it is not essential, in 
order to produce this reverence, to exaggerate the cir- 
cumstances under which these remarkable peculiarities 
are displayed. The infallibility of the instinct of in- 
sects in such cases is, in most books of natural his- 
tory, maintained to be without exception. “ Led by 
an instinct,” say Kirby and Spence, “ far more un- 
lutrod. iii. p. 32 . 





erring than the practised eye of the botanist, she re- 
cop^nizes the plant the moment she approaches it*.” 
And again, they talk of “ the vnerring foresight with 
which the female deposits her eggs in the precise 
place where the larvaB when excluded are sure to find 
suitable food t.’’ This unconditional position requires, 
however, to be considerably modified to make it cor- 
respond with the facts. The experiment we gave from 
Redi in our first chapter, in which the carnivorous 
flies laid their eggs on the silk and paper covering 
tainted meat, will occur to every reader as one striking 
exception ; and we can mention several others still 
more marked. When Dr. Arnold discovered that 
most singular parasitic plant, the krubut, of Sumatra, 
{RaffieMa Arnoldii, Brown,) which consists of a 
flower only, without leaf or stem, and of the extra- 
ordinary diameter of three feet, he perceived a swarm 
of flies hovering over the nectary, and apparently 
laying their eggs in its substance, mistaking it most 
probably for carrion, as it smelt like tainted beef J. 
A similar mistake is committed in our own country, 
when the common blow-fly (Musca vomitoiia) lays 
its eggs in the foetid funguses (Phalli, A garici, &c.), 
apparently under the notion that these are genuine 
carrion §. This may be more particularly observed 
on the singular class of plants, stapelias, which are 
so common in our hot-houses : whole families of 
maggots are constantly born to starve in their foetid 
flowers. 

These are instances of the mistakes of instinct in 
circumstances where it depends upon the information 
of the senses ; and similar mistakes frequently occur 
where the higher ])owers of human rationality are 
deceived by analogous phenomena. The fine nutty 
flavour of cherry laurel water and of prussic acid 

? Introd. i. p. 340. 4' Ibid. iii. p. 65. 

\ R, Brow'ji; Linn. Trans, vol. xiii. § Smellie, Philos, of Nat. Hist. 





would be certain to deceive the inexperienced ; and 
Majendie’s servant actually fell an immediate vic- 
tim to her desire of tasting* the prussic acid which 
she found in his laboratory. This would be consi- 
dered perhaps a mistake arising from the artificial 
habits acquired in society, by those who maintain 
that animals, guided by instinct, never mistake poison 
for food. But we may add another curious instance 
or two of similar mistakes in the inferior races. 

The common earth-worm {Li/mbricus terresfris) 
is instinctively afraid ol‘ moles ; and no sooner does 
it hear any subterranean noise, or feci any shaking of 
the ground, similar to those indicative of the ap- 
j)roaching movements f)f its enemy, than it makes a 
speedy escape to the surface. Every boy knows how 
to take advantage of this to ])rocure lish-baits, by 
thrusting a spade or a stake into the ground, and 
moving it backwards and forwards, to imitate the 
advance of a mole burrowing in search of prey. 
The worm, unable from its instinct to discriminate 
between its subterranean enemy and the spade, darts 
into day-light, and is instantly captured for the boy^s 
bait-bag. The lapwing anelliis cridatua, Meyer), 
it is stated by Dr. Anderson in his ‘ Bee,’ is aware 
of this instinctive fear in the earth-worm of sub- 
terranean concussions or noises; and when it can- 
not find sudiciency of slugs &c. above ground, 
it pats with its feet, till the earth-worms, mistaking 
it for an advancing mole, come forth to be feasted 
upon. 

It is well known that, whenever a hawk appears, 
he is immediately surrounded by a host of small 
birds, particularly swallows, which dart at him and 
tease him, jbr the purpose, as may be suj)posed, of 
distracting liis attention, on the princiide that 

^ “ Nourriture; — in>ectus, aiaijjnees, \ers, ct petite lima^ons,” 
Temminck, Manuel d’Ornithologie, p. 552, 2d. edit. 

u 3 



 


* wealth makes wit waver.’ Be this as it may, the 
cuckoo, which bears a strong resemblance to a 
hawk when on the win^, is certain to be accom- 
panied by a similar retinue of small birds wherever 
it flies. In the north this is so commonly observed, 
that the cuckoo is popularly believed to be always 
attended by a titling or pippet {^AntJuni pratensis, 
Bechstein), which, it is further ima«;ined, has been 
its stepmother and nurse from the epi^g : this, indeed, 
is the bird whose nest the cuckoo most frequently 
selects to deposit the e^j^s which she so strangely 
and unnaturally abandons ; though it is more pro- 
bable that it is not on this account, but because she 
appears to be a hawk, that the pippet and other small 
birds persecute her. 

Linnajus records in his ‘ Lachesis Lapponica,’ 
that at Tornea there is a meadow, or bog, full of 
water-hemlock {Cienta virosa)^ which annually 
destroys from fifty to a hundred head of cattle. It 
seems that they eat most of it in spring, when first 
turned into the pasture, partly from their eagerness 
for fresh pasture, and partly from their long fasting 
and greediness, the lierbage being then short. Be- 
sides, from the immersion of the hemlock under 
water, it may not have the proper scent to deter 
them. A similar destruction of cattle from the same 
cause occurs in the wide meadows of Leinings^. 

* J. R., in Mag. of Nat. Hist., I. 374, 


 


Hybernation of Insert Ejfflfs. — Infrrnuity of Moths. — Sing;iilaritie8 of Co- 
clienille Insectii and of Spiders. — ^Experiments of Spallanzani and John 
Hunter. 

The assertion of Paley that “ the human animal is the 
only one which can clothe itself*,” though it accords 
with what is known of quadrupeds, birds, and fishes, 
by no means holds good in the insect world, in 
which it may be disproved by the most superficial 
observer t- Men, indeed, proceed by means of rea- 
soning and experiment to the discovery of such ma- 
terials as are best fitted for protecting their bodies 
against the vicissitudes of temperature, and other 
changes of weather; while insects are taught by the 
Governor of the Universe to select instinctively the 
best materials for their clothing. This is exemplified 
in a very remai kable manner in the coverings made 
by difierent families for protecting their eggs, as we 
shall now describe. 

The maternal affection of the eider duck (Anas 
moliissima, Linn.) has frequently been celebrated by 
naturalists, from her stri])ping the down from her own 
breast to form her nest, a circumstance which is also 
exemplified in the common rabbit ; but both of these 
animals are outrivalled by more than one moth : — 
for the latter, not contented with a nest made of their 
own down, take pains to cover with it each individual 
egg. The provision which nature lias made for this 
purpose is worthy of attention. The female, for ex- 
ample, of the gypsey moth (Hypogymua dispar) has 
the hinder parts of her body thickly clothed with a 

? Nuturarriicology, p. 230. 11th edit, 
f See Insect Aichitecturc/* chaps, x., xii,, &c. 





soft down of a hair-brown colour, which is wanting 
in the male, evidently because to him it would be of 
no use. As a covering for her own body, it can be 
of but small service, since she emerges from her 
pupa-case during the hot days of August, and does 
not usually live more than a week or a fortnight. Its 
chief or sole purpose, therefore, is to furnish a co- 
vering for her eggs. 

When about to lay, the mother gypsey moth places 
herself on tlie trunk of an oak or an elm, invariably 
with her head downwards, the reason of which posi- 
tion will be immediately explained. Without the aid 
of her legs, which are too short to be used like 
those of the gnat by way of rule and compass, she 
contrives to place her eggs in the form of an inverted 
cone. She first makes a little bed of this down, into 
which she thrusts the egg intended for the point of 
her cone ; and this egg, being covered with adhesive 
gluten, attaches around it all the hairs of the down 
with which it comes in contact, and also sticks to the 
bark of the tree, from its being ])ushed home. Pro- 
ceeding in the same manner, slie continues lor seve- 
ral hours adding to the mass ; but she does not in 
general finish the operation in less than two days, 
indulging in occasional rests when fatigued with her 
labour. At intervals, also, she takes care to protect 
the eggs placed in the cone with an exterior covering 
of the same down. There is one part of these opera- 
tions not a little remarkable. In the bed which she 
first makes for the eggs, the hairs of t!ic down either 
point at right angles to the bark of the tree, or at 
least are tossed down with little regularity ; but in 
tile external coping, which is designed to keep out the 
winter rains, the hairs are carefully placed in a sloping 
direction, like the tiles on a house, or the pile of 
a well brushed hat, ]jointing downwards towards the 
base of the cone. The latter is usually concave, be- 





cause, when the moth takes her occasional rests, she 
never moves from the spot, but remains with her tail 
thrust in amonp;st the eg^^s. We liave f^iven these 
details from observations made in the Parc at Brus- 
sels, in Aupjust, 1829* ; and our entomological readers 
will perceive, that thoup^h they do notdisaG;ree with the 
facts observed by the accurate Reaumur, we have 
added several particulars not mentioned by him t- 
In order to preserve some specimens of the p^ypsey 
moth, which abounds in the Netherlands, but is rare 
in most parts of Brihiin, we inclosed two or three in 
chip boxes. U])on openin«* these, a short time after- 
wards, we found that one of the moths had deposited 
a patch of e^f>;s ; but, instead of the conical form which 
the insect would have chosen had shebeen at liberty, she 
had disposed them in the form of a wheel, of which her 
body was the radius. This, of course, was not so much to 
be wondered at, as it no doubt arose from her want of 
space to proceed in the usual manner ; but we deem it 
worthy of notice that this wheel, which was about a 
(juarter of an inch broad in the rim, was sloped with 






the s;reateRt rep^ularity, after the manner of a candle 
shade, and the down tiled upon it all round. Another 
of our prisoners, thoui^h precisely in the same circum- 
stances as to space, instead of forming a wheel, piled 
up her eggs in form of a circular mound ; but as the 
number of her eggs was not a sixth part of those of the 
other, (probably from her having deposited jmrt before 
we caught her,) this may have induced her to vary 
the shape of the group. Like the others, however, the 
regular slope and tiling of the down was carefully 
preserved *. We have now (April, 1830) a numerous 
brood of caterpillars from these very eggs. 

The eggs, which are thus deposited with so much 
care, arc destined to abide all the pitiless pelting of 
the storms of winter ; for, although they are laid in 
August, they are not hatched till the elm comes into 
leaf ill the following* spring. The covering of down, 
accordingly, from the manner in which it is tiled and 
brushed smooth by the mother moth, not only protects 
them from wet, Imt from severe cold, being one of the 
best non-conductors of heat. The ex])eriments oi‘ 
modern chemical philosophers have proved beyond a 
doubt, tliat the warmest material for clothing is not 
what imparts most heat to the body, but what best 
prevents the escape of the heat generated there. The 
feeling of cold, therefore, does not, as might be sup- 
j)()sed, arise from anything positively cold, but solely 
from a deficiency of heat. On putting the hand, for 
example, on a piece of ice, the feeling of cold docs 
not arise from cold given out by the ice to the hand, 
but from the heat which the ice takes from the hand, 
which heat can be actually traced in the water formed 
by the melting of the ice. But when the hand is laid 
upon wool, feathers, or down, these do not feel cold, 
because they do not carry off the heat of the skin so 
rapidly as the ice. 


* J.ll. 





It may appear a little paradoxical, though the doc- 
trine is sound, to assert that down and similar ma- 
terials are nearly as well calculated for protecting an 
animal from excessive outward heat as from severe 
cold» This, however, has been long well known as a 
fact to the Neapolitan peasantry, who convey snow 
from Mount Vesuvius to Naples in the summer lor the 
purposes of luxury : they preserve it from melting by 
covering it with chaff and wool. It may not be out 
of place to remark that instances of this occur among 
insects, precisely similar to what we have just detailed 
respecting the gypsey m()th. The brown-tail and the 
golden-tail moths (Porlhesia mirifua^ and P. Chry~ 
sorrhma^ Stephens), whose caterpillars spin themselves 
a warm nest before the setting-in of the winter colds*, 
seem no less careful to protect their eggs from the 
summer heats of July and August, at which time they 
are dei)osited. The down with which they are fur- 
nished for this purpose grows upon the tail of the 
female moth, in form of a thick tuft or brush, of a 
shining silky gloss, and of a different colour from the 
short hair on the body. It may be remarked that 
moths have only a mouth tube for sucking honey, and 



lemales of the brown and {rold-tailed moths, showing the bunch 
of down on the tails. 


See Ihi:ect Architecture/’ p,329“ 





no mandibles or jaws like bees, wasps, and beetles, 
for performinc^ any mechanical labour ; but the moths 
in question have an oro;an admirably contrived for 
covering their ego^s with down. This consists of an 
extensile instrument, situated in the tail, not unlike 
the points of a ])air of sugar-tonp^s, and intended to 
perform the j)art of tweezers in ])ullin^ off the down, 
and placing it upon the eg-o's. Having reared nume- 
rous broods of the moths alluded to, we can testify 
to the minute accuracy of Reaumur in detailing 
their proceedings. He remarks, that though the 
mother moth is exceedingly sluggish (lourde) in her 
general movements, she emi)loys her tweezers with 
surprising quickness, on all sides, first, to pull off a 
pinch of down, and spread it out, and then to place the 
egg upon it, and cover it neatly over, and smooth the 
down in the j)roper direction. The nature of the in- 
strument will be better understood by the following 
figures. 



Tweezers of the brown and ffold-tailed moths, rna/fiiilioil. 

Reaumur has figured the deposition of the eggs 
of an insect, the species of which is not ascertained, sent 
him by a physician of Lu^on, which are covered, like 
the preceding, with down, but are arranged in an 
elegant spiral form, as if a lady would wind one of 
the ends of her fur tippet spirally round a branch. 

• Savigny, however, has displayed much acumen in site wing 
how the suckers of moths, &c., are analogous to mandibles, — Me- 
moires sur ks Aninu sans V :rteb. 





These e^i^s were extremely small, and the down very 
fine, like the short fur of the beaver, and of a pretty 
squirrel-^rey colour. The eggs were oblong, and 
placed on end, at right angles to the branch ; as was 
also their downy envelope, which differed in this re- 
spect from tlie imbricated and smoothly brushed 
coping of the moths above described. There is no- 
thing of this kind, says Reaumur, which we ought 
to consider it difficult for an insect to execute, when 
we are accpiaintcd with the admirable instruments 
with which nature has furnished them 



The spiral form of eggs deposited upon a branch 
may, in particular years, be seen in almost every 
orchard and every hedge, being the method followed 
by the lackey moth {Clisiommpa iieustria^ Ste- 
phens) and its congeners. The precise manner iii 
which the mother lackey proceeds has not, so far as 
we know, been witnessed by any naturalist ; and 
though Reaumur reared a great number on pur- 
pose to discover it, all his efforts proved unsuccessful. 
An examination, however, of the arrangement of the 
eggs themselves, shews that they are placed in a 
manner excellently adapted to secure their adhesion 
to the branch, and to prevent their sustaining injury. 
The egg is somewhat of the form of a fimnel-shaj)ed 
wine-glass — broader at top than at bottom f ; and it 
? lU'aumur, Mcrn.ii. 107. 

+ See two of these eggs figured in “ Insect Architecture,” 
p.l9. 



 


is worthy of remark, that this is the precise form of the 
arch-stones of a bridg^e. They are, in fact, built toge- 
ther in the arched form. This, together with the 
strong cement employed in uniting them, renders 
it difficult to crush them, though considerable force 
be used for that })urpose ; and this even when they are 
slipped off the bninch, round which they are set like 
pearls on a bracelet, which is the name given them 
by the French peasantry. The cement, also, is so 
hard, that when pressed it resists the nail, though it 
may be pierced with the point of a sharp knife ; and 
not being soluble in water, “nor in any other liquid,’’ 
says Swammerdam, “ which I have tried,” the heaviest 
rain dashes upon the eggs without injury. 



It may be a question with some, when they com- 
pare these naked eggs of the lackey moth, exposed on 
a bare bnincli, with the warm downy co^erillg of those 
of the gypsey moth, how the former are protected 
from the colds of winter. This is a question which 
previous researches cannot fully answer, but one cir- 
cumstance is obvious — the lackey’s eggs are many 
degrees harder than those of the gy])sey, wliich may 
be easily crushed. Probably also, this may be con- 
nected with their electrical state; and that has always 






an intimate connection with heat in animated bodies. 
The livinfij principle, to which we shall by and bye 
advert, must also be taken into account. 

In consequence of the minuteness of insect eggs, 
notwithstanding the researches of enthusiastic ento- 
mologists, we are still unacquainted with by far the 
greater number. The hybernation of eggs is, there- 
fore, a subject upon which little is known. In the 
egg state insect life is, perhaps, less liable to acci- 
dents, than in a more advanced stage of existence ; 
and it is most probable that the greater number re- 
main unhatched during the cold season. Different 
modes of depositing eggs are resorted to by different 
species of the same genus, as may be exemplified in 
the plant lice (^Aphides), It was observed by De 
Geer, that those of the birch and the blackthorn 
(^Aphis Alni, and A. Pruni) covered each egg indivi- 
dually with a white cottony down, detached from their 
bodies by means of their hind legs, and placed by the 
same means over the eggs^. But the greater number 
of this family lay their eggs in an exposed situation, 
upon the plants where the young, when hatched, may 
find food. Thus Kirby found the small black eggs of 
a large species on the buds of birch-trees ; and we 
have just discovered (Jan. 1830) a numerous deposit 
of the eggs of the magpie plant-louse {Aphis Sam- 
bud) on an elder tree, where the insect was abundant 
the preceding summer f. These eggs arc exceedingly 
minute,but easily observed on account of their shining 
black colour. They are placed in an irregular patch 
upon a ])art of the trunk from which the bark has 
been stripped off, and are entirely unprotected. 

The cochenille insects {CoeddfP Leach), so called 
from one of the species furnishing the well-known 
valuable dye-stuff, protect their eggs in a still more 

* De Geer, Mem. sur les Insectes, iii. 48, 51. t K 

 


remarkable 'manner. The mother deposits her e^g‘s 
under her body, which becomes ^lued to the spot ; she 
then dies, and her body becomes a covering for the 
eggs. In this state the insects appear on the bark 
of trees like small warts, some species in the form of 
a boat, some kidney-shaped, and others globular ; 
and, before their history was understood, they were 
with some plausibility supposed to be vegetable galls, 
— whence they were termed Gall Insects by the French. 

Though the mother insect is seldom larger than a 
peppercorn, the number of eggs which she lays 
amounts to several thousands, and in fact fills the 
greater portion of her body. Those which are found 
on our green-house plants, and which are the pest 
of the grape-vines in the neighbourhood of London, 
both in and out of doors, secrete a sort of white 
silky gum, very like gossamer, as the first bed of 
their eggs. Reaumur could not discover that the 
mother insect was furnished with any organ similar 
to those of spiders and caterpillars for spinning this 
gossamer; and in an allied genus (Dor/^ma), Kirby 
and Spence talk of it as “ wire-drawn through nu- 
merous pores in certain oval plates in the skiii^.’* 
Having minutely observed, during several successive 
summers, some thousands of the female cocci found 
on vines in the open air, we have satisfied ourselves 
that this cottony matter is precisely similar to the 
gluten which envelopes the eggs of most insects ; 
and that it is neither spun like the threads of cater- 
pillars, or the webs of spiders, nor wire- drawn 
through numerous pores, — ^but is simply excluded 
along with the eggs. We may remark, also, that the 
covering formed by the body of the mother coccus 
prevents this substance from drying, as the webs of 
spiders do ; and, consequently, it can at any time be 
* Introd. iii., p. 183. 





drawn out into extended threads, by detaching a few 
of the eggs from the mass. 



Kp:£!:s> of the Coceus covered Avith down, and with the bodies, 
ol the mothers. 


All account, which appears to us altogether apo- 
cryphal, has been given of the migrations of the 
species which produces the cochenille (Coccus CaclU 
Linn). From the females remaining stationary, 
it is said, their numerous progeny would not find 
sulficient nutrinient on their native tree; and they 
arc, at the same time, st) delicate, that they conld not 
travel along tlie ground from one plant to another; 



Magnified cochenille insects, {Coccus cacti), a, Male. 6, Female. 

 


but nature, it is alleged, provides for them admirable 
means of emigration, since, at the period of their 
birth, a multitude of spiders fasten their nets to the 
leaves of the nopal, and along these, which serve 
them for bridges, the young cocci emigrate to the 
adjacent trees *. We have little doubt that this story 
has originated in the inaccurate observations of some 
fanciful traveller, who mistook the threads accidentally 
drawn out from the mass of eggs, for those of a 
spider. 

The gossamer envelope, however, which we have 
just described as covering the eggs of the coccus that 
is common on our British vines, is not intended as a 
defence against the cold of winter; for this species 
hybernates, according to Reaumur, in the laiTa state, 
though we have frequently searched for these larvaj 
in vain during winter, on vines where they swarmed 
in mjTiads during summer. But the Britisli species 
of coccus of the hawthorn, &c., on account of which 
we introduced the subject here, assuredly hybernates 
in the egg state ; and may be seen at the off-goings 
of the branchlets in an oval form, like that of a 
minute wood-louse (Oniscus), of a silvery grey 
colour, differing, indeed, but little from the tint of 
the bark. On raising up with the point of a pen- 
knife what appeared to be the body of the insect, we 
found that it was hard, dry, and dead, — the mere 
skin, in a word, of the mother coccus, while under- 
neath was a multitude of eggs of a deep orange 
colour. It is worthy of notice, also, that there is, 
then, no envelope of gossamer, though there is mixed 
up with the eggs a small quantity of a greyish white 
powder, which, we are inclined to conjecture, may 
be the dried remains of it ; and, the more so, that 
Reaumur figures the gossamer as abundant in the 
coccus of the hawthorn. Unfortunately he has not 
* St. Pierre, Studies of Nature, vol.i. 






mentioned at what season he procured these, and 
we have no means of ascertaining whether our species 
is the same with his^. 



a b r, Kp;G:s of flie liawtborn rocens, covered liy the body of tlio 
dead uiother. rf, oue of those niagiiilied. e, a section, shewing 
the eggs within. 

We have found the eggs just mentioned most 
abundant on the hawthorn in the hedges around 
London; but as the size, the colours, and the forms 
of the crust are very dillereut, there can be no doubt 
of there being diflerent species even on the same 
tree. “ In Jnl), 1812,” says Kirl)y, “ 1 saw a cur- 
rant-busli miserably ravaged by a sjtecies of coccus 
very much resembling the coccus of the vine. The 
eggs were of a beautiful pink, and enveloped in a 
large mass of cotloii-like web, which could he drawn 
out to a considerable length f.” From the manner in 
which this justly popular author speaks, it would ap- 
pear he had not elsewhere met with this coccus ; but 

t hilr.i. 197. 





it is by no means of rare occurrence, and may be found 
on most currant-bushes, and often on hawthorns, &c. 
around London. Tiie envelope of the egj^s is of a 
chestnut- brown colour. 

A much more singular species occurs in company 
with the preceding, and abounds on the currant- 
bushes at Lee. From their resemblance to the form 
of one of the valves of a mussel-shell, Reaumur 
named this species en coqnille (Coccus coiichiformis, 
Gmelin). He says, it imposed uj)on him for several 
years, as he supposed it to be the cocoon of some 
minute insect about to go into the pupa state ; but he 
was undeceived by finding them full of eggs. We 
were more disposed, at first, to look upon tliem as a 
subcortical fungus (such as Cucurbitaria Berber idis, 
Grev. or Cryptospfifsria Pleridis, Sowertj.), for, 
during the winter, when we first observed them, they 
appeared exactly like a little slip of' the bark elevated 
by the growth of a fungus below it. Then they were 
so crowded on some branches, that not a hair’s breadth 
of the bark remained uncovered. When, however, we 
found these minute bark-like scales full of eggs, we 
were inclined to conjecture that they had been depo- 
sited by saw-flies cutting into the bark ; but this was 
instantly disproved by removing them, and finding the 
bark below sound and uncut. Reaumur put the 
matter, beyond dispute by actually hatching the 
eggs, when insects were produced similar to other 
cocci. But our species, found on the currant-bush, 
seems to differ from his of the elm, not in form and 
colour, but in habit, being gregarious, while his was 
subsolitary 

During the severe frost of 1829*30, we observed 
several small birds, such as the long-tailed titmouse 
(Pams caudaius), and the gold-cresled wren (Rcpi- 

« j.'k. 



 


///.<? cristdtm, ^Ay)y busily peeking the eggs of the 
cocci in the hedges *. 

The resemblance of these singular insects to the 
wood-louse (Onisciis), which is not properly an in- 
sect, but a crustaceous animal, may be traced farther 
than mere external appearance ; for the body of the 
mother, in the latter, also becomes a covering for 
the egg, though she does not die immediately after 
laying as the coccus does, but carries her eggs 
under her breast in small four-valved cells. 

One of the most easily discovered depositions of 
eggs during the winter months are those made by 
various species of spiders, particularly that of the 
large garden-spider (Epcira diadema), which may 
be found in the angles of walls, in form of a ball, 
about the size of a cherry, of beautiful yellow silk, 
and much stronger than the common materials of 
the same spider’s geometric web. This substance 
Rt^aumur endeavoured to bring into use as a substitute 
for silk ; but he was unsuccessful in procuring it in 
fpiantity, owing to the ferocious habits of the spiders, 
which devoured one another when he reared them 
gregariously. As the eggs of spiders have usually a 
thin soft shell, a thick warm envelope of silk is, no 
doubt, essential to their weathering the colds of 
winter, notwithstanding the sheltered corners where 
they are usually placed. Some species weave these 
little silken nests in a very elegant form. We possess 
one of the pyriform shape of a balloon, the texture 
of which is close and netted with diagonal meshes. 
One, somewhat in form of a drinking-glass, is figured 
in Loudon’s Magazine of Natural History, as having 
been found near Wandsworth, attached to the stein 
of a rush growing in water. 

There was a deposition of eggs at the bottom, the 
rest of the space being vacant. De Geer describes 





similar spiders^ nests attached to the stems of j^ss * ; 
and we once found a larj^e one of an elongated 
shape, and composed of very white silk, on a spike of 
grass at Compton-B asset, Wiltshire t- 



Spiders* nests. 

The vapourer {Orgyia antiqua, Ociisenh.), a com- 
mon moth, takes advantage of the warm silken enve- 
lope of the pupa-case, from which she has escaped a 
few days before, to form a bed for her eggs. In our 
earlier studies of insect economy we were inclined to 
ascribe to accident the deposition of the eggs in this 
particular situation, but we have found so many 
instances of it as to reject the explanation. Swam- 
merdam also observes, that “ this custom of fastening 
the eggs to the web in a constant method, and 
by the immutable law of nature, is so peculiar 
to this species of insects, that I have never ob- 
served it in any other kind whatsoever. This 
female,” he subjoins, “like a most prudent house- 
wife, never leaves her habitation, but is always 
fixing her eggs to the surface of the web out 
of which she has herself crept, thus affording a 
beautiful instance of industrious housewifery];.” One 
? De Geer, Mem., vol. \ii. pp. ‘227 — 9. f J. R. 

t Swammerdam, pt. ii. page 7. 





reason for this is, that the female of this moth 
having; only the rudiments of wing;s, a peculiarity 
remarkable in several other moths, she cannot shift 
so readily about. But whatever may be the real 
cause, there can be no doubt that the web serves to 
keep the eg;g;s warm during; winter ; for though they 
are placed on the outside of the web, the whole is 
usually under some projection of a wall or arm of a 
tree, and the non-conducting property of the silk, 
both with regard to heat and electricity, must be of 
great benefit to the eggs in })rcserving them in an 
equable temperature, and of course promoting their 
early hatching. 



VaponrerMoth (Or^;/ia antiqua\mhh and feniale, the latter 
without winps ; with the ejrgs laid upon^the silken cocoon from 
which the mother has issued. 


We cannot better conclude these imperfect sketches 
of the hybernation of insect eggs, than by an ac- 
count of the ingenious experiments made by 
Spallanzani and John Hunter, by exposing several 
species of these to great degrees of cold as well 
as of heat. It results from these experiments that 
“ intense cold,’’ to use the words of Spallanzani, 
“ does not destroy the eggs of insects. The year 
1709, when Fahrenheit’s thermometer fell to 1°, 
is celebrated for its rigour and its fatal effects on 
plants and animals. Who can believe, exclaims 
Boerhaave, that the severity of this winter did not 
destroy the eggs of insects, especially those exposed 
to its iiillueiice in the open fields, on the naked 





earth, or on the branches of trees ? Yet, when the 
springs had tempered the air, these ej^gs produced as 
they usually did alter the mildest winters. Since that 
period there have been winters more severe. In 
France, durini^ December, 1788, the thermometer 
fell considerably lower, and in several other tempe- 
rate European climates. 

“ I have exposed e^gs to a more rigorous trial 
than the winter of* 1709. Those of several insects, 
and among others the silk-worm, moth, and elm 
butterfly (l^aiiessa polychloros?) were inclosed in a 
glass vessel and buried five hours in a mixture of ice 
and sal gem (rock salt) ; the thermometer fell 6^ 
below zero. In the middle of the following spring, 
however, caterpillars came from all the eggs, and 
at the same time as from those that had sutt'ered no 
cold. Ill the following year, I submitted them to an 
experiment still more hazardous. A. mixture of ice 
and sal gem with the fuming spirit of nitre (Nitrate 
of Ammonia)^ reduced the thermometer 22^ below 
zero, that is 23^ lower than the cold of 1709. 
They were not injured, as I had evident proof 
by their being hatched. 

“ Combining all these facts, we conclude that cold 
is less noxious to germs and eggs, than to animalcula 
and insects. Germs in general can support 2*^ 
below zero ; whereas of animalcula some die at the 
freezing point, and some at about 20°. Tiie eggs 
of many insects continue fertile after being subjected 
to a temperature of 22° below zero, while insects 
themselves die at 16° and 14°. Tliis I have ascer- 
tained in the eggs of the silk-worm moth and of the 
elm butterfly; and although there are caterpillars 
and chrysalides able to resist great cold, 1 have uni- 
formly found it to be in a less degree than what can 
be resisted by their eggs. What can be the cause of 
so great a ditference? Insects killed at 16^ and 14° 





are so penetrated and frozen by the cold, that their 
members do not yield to the pressure of the ftiij^er, 
and seem perfect ice under tlie knife. This does 
not happen to eggs, though subjected to cold of 
much «;reater intensity. Their contents remain fluid, 
even at the c^reatest cold, as may be seen by crn shin 
them with the nail. Perhaps this is derived from 
constituent spirituous or oleaj^inous parts, or from 
some principle ada})ted to abate the power of cold*. 
If eg’gs do not freeze, it is probable the included 
embryos do not freeze. Is there anything won- 
derful, therefore, that they then survive cold which 
is fatal to them when produced ? Probably for the 
same reason (and I see no objection tliat can apply), 
anirnalcula, concentrated in the germ, can support a 
decree of cold they are incapable of when developed. 

“As the temperature of freezing; still retains a 
portion of heat, why, it may be asked, should it not 
develope the germs of the most minute anirnalcula ? 
Had we never seen any eggs hatched but those of 
birds, which require 104*^, wc should have concluded 
that all others require the same. A little initiation 
into the study of minute animals teaches how many 
kinds produce at a tem])erature infinitely less. Such 
are the eggs of butterflies and many otlier insects, of 
frogs, lizards, tortoises, down to some, as those ol’ 
toads, which I have seen produce at 45^^ If these 
eggs hatch at 59^ less than is rc(juired by those of 
birds, what repugnance will there be to sui)pose that 
at 13° less, or the freezing point, the eggs of other 
animals may be hatched ? Nor should it surprise me 
to be told of animals whose eggs would produce at 
much greater cold, after knowing that there are plants, 
beings so similar to animals, and many of them, 

? In plain language, Spallanzani did not know vv hat to make of 
the facts. 


K 


 


which amidst the rigours of winter flourish and fruc- 
tify*.” 

It is remarked by John Hunter that an egg will 
freeze by a great degree of cold ; at the same time 
there seems to be a living principle which enables it to 
support cold without destruction, and when once that 
principle is destroyed, cold more easily operates. An 
egg was thus frozen by the cold of zero ; after thaw- 
ing and again exposing it to the same degree of cold, 
it froze seven minutes and a half sooner. A new-laid 
egg took an hour to freeze in 15° and 17°, but when 
thawed, it froze at 25° in half the timet* 

The principle of vitality, therefore, whatever may be 
the cause, is evidently less easily destroyed in the egg 
state than in the perfect animal; and therefore the 
inference that a rigorous winter promises a diminution 
of insects in the summer succeeding commonly proves 
erroneous. On the contrary, recorded facts prove that 
they are sometimes even more abundant than usual 
after severe frosts. During the present spring of 
1830, accordingly, notwithstanding the severe frosts 
of the preceding winter, we have observed a much 
greater number of insects, even of the smaller and 
more delicate kinds {Aleyrodes, CorethrUy Alvcitay 
&c.) as well as of larvae, both those just hatched, and 
those which have lived through the winter, than last 
year, when the frost was not so severe. We were 
particularly struck with the larvae of some small 
tipula which we found in abundance 

in Birch Wood, Kent, feeding on a fungus (Boletus 
fomentarius. Fries), and which were so beautifully 
transparent and soft, that we could not understand 
how they had escaped being frozen. It is not a 
little remarkable, in connexion with this, that the 

* Spallanzani’s Tracts, transl. by Dalyell; vol, i, p, 63. 

t Hunter ou the Animal Economy, 






minatory birds seem to have been aware of this 
abundance of insects by their appearing earlier than 
usual. We saw a pair of nightingales at Greenhithe 
on the 21st of March, and a number of swallows the 
same week at Lee, — which is two or three weeks be- 
fore their average time*. 






Hatching of Insect Eggs. 

The contents of an ee^e^ principally consist of 
nutriment adapted to the diflerent parts of the 
germ which it contains — the yolk for nourishing 
the soft parts ; the white, lor the blood and other 
fluids ; and the shell, lor the bones. In the case of 
insects, as well as of birds, fishes, and reptiles, the 
embryo is placed in the most advantageous posi- 
tion for partaking of the repast, — namely, in a parti- 
cular corner where it may breathe fresh air always 
communicated to the chamber ol‘ the egg by ^en- 
tilatory passages in the shell ; if these be shut up, 
by covering the egg with grease, varnish, or chalk, 
it is suffocated and dies. In the case of birds, 
according to Malpighi and the older physiologists 
the rudiment of the chick, while still a minute point, is 
lodged on the film that envelopes the yolk, near the 
centre of the egg ; and, — as the floating wick of a 
mariner’s lamp is constantly preserved upon a level 
with the surface by the mobility oi’ the slings and the 
weight of the oil-vcssel tending downwards, how- 
ever the ship move, — there is an ingenious natural 
mechanism, which prevents the embryo chick from 
being upset when the egg is stirred. The yolk is 
sustained by two membranous ribbons, visible at the 
aperture of the egg, and fastening it on each side to 
the common membrane glued to the shell. These 
suspensory bands being fixed above the centre of the 

?Malpighi, dc Ovo incubato; Lceuwenhoeck, Epist. phys, 
xl. j and Harvey, in Willoughhy’.s Ornilhol, c. iii. 






yolk, of course the more weig^hty part always de- 
scends, in every position of the as far as they 
will permit, and the chick being: thence prevented 
from sliding down, nourishes itself in security. 

We cannot, on account of their minuteness, ascer- 
tain whether there is any similar mechanical contriv- 
ance in the eg:^s of insects; but we have in several 
instances distinctly observed the speck where the 
embryo insect was placed just within the shell of 
the e^^. In order to stimulate it to feast and 
fatten on the g:ood things stored up in his ej^g:-shell 
chamber, it appears that a certain degpree of heat 
is indispensably requisite; for cold, though it does 
not usually, as we have seen, kill the embryo, almost 
always renders it toqiid. But the stimulus of 
heat produces activity in the livinp: principle, causes 
the embryo to devour all the nutritive contents of the 
eg-g:, and thence to increase proportionably in size. 
It is worthy of remark, however, that the stimulus of 
lig:ht, contrary to that of heat, acts unfavourably upon 
the hatching: of eg:g:s. Both of these positions may 
be illustrated by numerous facts and experiments. 

Most birds, so far as has been ascertained, supply 
the heat necessary for hatching: their eg:g;s by sitting; 
constantly upon them during: a certain number of 
days ; but reptiles, such as the crocodile, bury their 
eg:^s in the warm sand upon the banks of rivers. 
Insects, attain, seldom, if ever, sit upon their eg:f^s, as 
birds do, in order to hatch them. This, indeed, 
would be impossible, as the g;reater number of insects 
die ill a few days after depositing; their eg:g;s, the con- 
tinuation of the species being: apparently their only 
business in their last or perfect stag:e ; since, as they 
then £^enerally cease to feed, they cannot possibly live 
long:. A few instances, however, have been observed, 
of insects performing; something very similar to the 




incubation of birds, thoup^h we have the hip^h authority 
of Fabricius, that “ insects never sit upon their eg;p;s 
Upon the incontestable statements of two dis- 
tinp;uished observers of insects, Frisch t and De 
Geer, the female of the common earwig {Forjimla 
auricularia^ Linim.) sits upon her eggs. This 
circumstance, however, seems to have escaped the 
notice of other naturalists, though her attentions to 
her young ones is often witnessed. De Geer disco- 
vered a feinale earwig in the beginning of April 
under some stones, and brooding over a number of 
eggs, of whose safety she appeared to be not a little 
jealous. In order to study her proceedings the better, 
he placed her in a nursc-box filled with fresh earth, 
and scattered the eggs in it at random. She was not 
long, however, in collecting them with all care into 
one spot, caiTying them one by one in her mandibles, 
and placing herseli'over them. She never left them 
for a moment, sitting as assiduously as a bird does 
while hatching. In about five or six weeks the grubs 
were hatched, and were then of a whitish colour 
At another time, in the beginning of June, De 
Geer found under a stone a female earwig accompa- 
nied with a numerous brood of young, to all appear- 
ance newly hatched, and nestling under their mother 
like chickens under a hen. These he likewise placed 
in a nurse-box with fresh earth; but instead of burrow- 
ing into the mould, as he had expected, they crowded 
under the bosom and between the legs of their mo- 
ther, who remained quiet and evidently jdeased, suf- 
fering them to continue there for an hour or more at 
a time. He fed both this brood and the one first 
mentioned with bits oi’ripe apple; and perceived that 

* Fabricius, Vbilosoph. Etilomol. Ixxvi. 

f Inscrlen in Dt'utschland, 4lo. 17t)G. 

I De Cicei, Mem., vol. iii. p. 548, 






they p^rew from day to day, and cast their skins, as 
caterpillars do, more than once. The mother did not 
live long, probably in consecpience of confinement ; 
and her progeny devoured nearly the whole of her 
body, as they also did the bodies of their brethren, 
when any of these chanced to die. We may remark, 
in passing, that it is an unfounded popular ])rejudice 
that earwigs get into the brain by creeping into the 
ear ; for though, from being night insects, and dis- 
liking exposure to the light, tliey may, by chance, 
attempt to take shelter in the ear, the disagreeable 
odour of the wax will soon drive them out: at all 
events they could never get farther than the drum, 
w'hich completely shuts the ])assage to the brain. 
We have known, indeed, a small beetle, get into the 
ear; but it did no further injury than produce a 
strjinge tingling sensation by crawling about the 
drum, and soon made its exit"^. A little red insect 
(the harvest-bug?) sometimes gets into the ear in 
bed, and produces wonderful commotion, but no real 
injury. 



Drum of the car, shewing that there is no passage through it to 
the hrain. 


Kirby and Spence are inclined to infer that a tree 
bug {Acanihosoma Stephens) may also sit 





upon its e^^s because De Geer found a mother of 
this species surrounded with a brood of thirty or forty 
younj^ ones following her as chickens follow a hen. 
She never leaves her family; but as soon as she 
moves, all the young ones closely follow, and as- 
semble around her in a cluster wherever she makes 
a halt. De Geer once cut a branch of birch, upon 
which a family of these bugs had assembled, and the 
mother shewed every symptom of fear and distress. 
Had she not had a family to protect, she would have 
taken immediate tlight ; but instead of this, she kept 
beating her wings rapidly and incessantly, and never 
stirred from her young. But even all this, affec- 
tionately maternal as it must be considered, is far 
from authorizing the conclusion that she sits upon 
her eggs ; though it is certain she must remain near 
them till they are hatched, unless she belong to 
those mentioned by Busch as ovo- viviparous f. 

One of the most common instances of something 
similar to birds hatching their eggs occurs in several 
species of spiders, which may he seen sitting near 
or upon the silken bag in which they have inclosed 
their eggs. Many of these mothers, however, die 
before their young are hatched, — all of them, per- 
haps, when the eggs are laid late in autumn. During 
the winter of lS’^y-30, we watched a considerable 
number of the geometric spiders {Epeirye) brooding 
over their eggs for several weeks ; but though the 
weather before Christmas was little more than an 
average degree of coldness, every one of them died, 
some living a longer time, and others a shorter^. But 
this is not the case with a very common wandering 
spider called by Dr. Lister the wolf (Lycom saccata, 
Latr.), Rttd first observed, we believe, by the cele- 
brated Harvey §. “ In order,” says Swammerdam, “ to 

Jl-' Iiilro. i. 35S, and iii. 101. 

f Scliiieider, Eur();)iiischc Schinetterlingc, i. 20G. J.R. 
llarvfy, Dii fjcncralionc. 





hatch her eggs the better, she carries them about as 
it were in a case, with wonderful solicitude and affec- 
tion; insomuch, that when the skin forming this case, 
which hangs to the hinder part of her body, is by 
any accident broken off, the little insect seeks after 
it with as much earnestness and industry as a hen for 
her lost chickens, and when found fastens it again 
to its place with the greatest marks of joy 

Bonnet has given a more detailed account of 
the manners of this spider, which, though no less 
fierce and ferocious in as])ect than her congeners, 
manifests an extraordinary change of mien when 
forcibly dejnived of her eggs. Then she instantly 
appears tame, stops to look around her, and begins 
to walk at a slow pace, and search on every side for 
what she has lost, nor will she even fly when one 
threatens to seize her. But should the exj)erimenter, 
moved with compassion, restore her bag of eggs, she 
catches it up with all haste, and darts away in a mo- 
ment ; or, when left undisturbed, will leisurely attach 
it again to her body. 

“ With a view,’* continues Bonnet, “ to put 
this singular attachment to a novel test, I one day 
threw a spider with her eggs into the pit-fall of an 
ant-lion (Jdyrmdion formicarivin) t. The spider en- 
deavoured to escape, and was eagerly remounting the 
side of the ])it, when 1 again tumbled her to the 
bottom, and the ant-lion, more nimble than the first 
time, seized the bag of eggs with its mandibles, and 
attempted to drag it under the sand. The spider, on 
the other hand, made the most strenuous efforts to 
keep her hold, and struggled hard to defeat the aim 
of the concealed depredator; but the gum which 
fastened her bag, not being calculated to withstand 
such violence, at length gave way, and the ant-lion 

* Book of Nature, pt. i. p. 24. 

f See Insect Architecture, p.209. 






was about to carry off the prize in triumph. The 
spider, however, instantly reg:ained it with her man- 
dibles, and redoubled her endeavours to snatch the 
bag from her enemy ; but her efforts were vain, for 
the ant-lion, being the stronger, succeeded in dragging 
it under the sand. The unfortunate mother, now 
robbed of her eggs, might have at least saved her 
own life, as she could easily have escaped out of the 
pit-fall ; but, wonderful to tell, she chose rather to 
be buried alive along with her eggs. As the sand 
concealed from my view what was passing below, I 
laid hold of the spider, leaving the bag in the power 
of the ant-lion. But the affectionate mother, de- 
prived of her bag, would not quit the spot where she 
had lost them, though I repeatedly pushed her with 
a twig. Life itself seemed to have become a burden 
to her since all her hopes and pleasures were gone for 
ever*.” 

That some portion of heat may be communicated 
to the eggs of the spider, which are thus carried so 
assiduously under her body, is highly probable ; and 
it is also, no doubt, advantageous to the young, when 
hatched, to have the assistance of their mother to open 
the bag for them, as was remarked by De Geerf; 
“ without which,” say Kirby and Spence, “ they 
could never escape J.” But that neither of these are 
indispensable conditions we have ascertained by re- 
peated experiments. We have taken a considerable 
number of these egg-bags from their mothers, and 
put them under inverted wine-glasses and into pill- 
boxes, and ill every instance the young have been 
duly hatched, and made their way without assistance 
out of the bag. In all these experiments, the young 
spiders joined in concert in making a web across their 
prison; a circumstance at variance with the assertion, 

* Bonnet, (Kuxres, vol. ii. p. 435. 

f De Geer, Mem. vol. vii. p, 194. Introd. i. p. 361. 






copied from Lister into most subsequent works on 
natural history, that this species never spins a web. 
They might not indeed have done so if they had been 
left at liberty*. 

A spider of the same species, which Bonnet kept 
under an inverted glass, at first was so exceedingly 
attached to her bag of eggs, that he could not beat 
her away from it after it was detached. “ By and 
bye,” he continues, “ I observed with surprise that 
she had abandoned and kept aloof from the vei^ bag 
which she had previously defended with so much cou- 
rage and address ; and I marvelled still more to see 
her run away from it when 1 placed it near her. I 
remarked at the same time that she had become less 
agile, seemingly in consequence of sickness. By 
more close observation, I discovered that several of 
the young ones were hatched, and their numbers 
increased by degrees, while all ran towards their 
mother and climbed upon her body. Some placed 
themselves on her back, some on her head, and some 
on her limbs, so that she was literally covered with 
them, and appeared to bend under the weight, not so 
much from being over-loaded, as from her feeble con- 
dition ; and indeed she soon afterwards died. The 
young spiders remained in a group upon the body 
of their mother, which they did not abandon for some 
time, and for the purpose, as I was half inclined 
(pardon the odious supposition) to think, of sucking 
the juices of her bodyf.” 

In order to prove whether a spider of this species 
could distinguish her own egg-bag from that of a 
stranger, we interchanged the bags of two individuals, 
which we had put under inverted wine-glasses ; but 
both manifested great uneasiness, and would not 
touch the strange bags. We then introd\iced one of 
the mothers into the glass containing her eggs and 

* J, lit f Bonnet; CEuvreS;Vol. ii. p. 440, 






the other spider ; but even then she did not take to 
them, which we attributed to the ])resence of the other, 
as all spiders nourish mutual enmity. Upon remov- 
ing the stranger, however, she shewed the same in- 
ditference to her efij’^s as before, and we concluded, 
that, after having* lost sitrht of them for a short time, 
she was no lono’cr able to recognize them*. 

A more e\traordinai*y method of hatching; e2:g:s 
occurs in several insects, thence termed ovo-vivipa- 
rous, which retain the eg;g;s within their bodies till they 
arc hatched ; and in this way they appear, like larg’er 
animals, to produce young; instead of eg’g^s. We do 
not here allude to the cocheiiille insects formerly men- 
tioned ; for though these cover their eo-g;s with their 
bodies, it is after they are laid and imbeclded in g*os- 
samer. Neither can these sing;ular insects be properly 
said to sit upon their eg*gs, inasmuch as the mother 
always dies when she has finished laying’. 

The guffer (Blenuivs ovo-viviparus, Lacepede), 
a British sea-fish, common under stones at low-water 
anark, affords an instance of this singular mode of the 
eggs being hatched in the body of the mother; and it 
is remarkable that when the young are ready to 
a])pear, she leaves her usual haunts on the coast, and 
goes farther out to sea, that they may be out of the 
reach of their natural enemies f. Our common viper 
(^Coluber ben/s, Linn.) is also ovo-viviparous, as arc 
several other reptiles ; though it is an exception to the 
general rule in this class. We caught a female of the 
nimble lizard (Lacerta agilis^ Linn.) on a heath 
near Sorn, Ayrshire, in July, and kept it for some time 
under a glass, where it produced six young ones ; but 
in couseipience of improper food, or ol‘ confinement, 
they all soon died J. This lizard is said to be some- 
times oviparous. The observations also of the elder 


* J.R. 


f LacepCde; Poissons, ii, p. 497. 


+ J.R. 





naturalists with respect to the scorpion’s being ovo- 
viviparous, have been recently verified by Leon 
Dufour^, a living French naturalist, distinguished for 
acuteness and accuracy. 

In the case of insects, it was first discovered by 
Redi, the father of experimental entomology, that, 
though the greater number of flies lay eggs, some 
also bring forth their young alive ; and he was thence 
led to put the question, whether such flies, under dif- 
ferent circumstances of temperature, do not sometimes 
produce young, and at other times deposit eggsf. 
He might as well, says Rt^aumur, have asked whe- 
ther, in certain circumstances, a hen, instead of laying 
eggs, should bring forth chickens. The fact, on the con- 
trary, has been ascertained by Reaumur, and recently 
confirmed by DufourJ, that the ovo- viviparous insects 
are furnished with an abdominal pouch, in which the 
eggs arc deposited by the mother previous to their 
being hatched. In this respect they afford a striking 
analogy with the kangaroo, the opossum, and other 
marsupial quadriqieds, which are furnished with a 
similar pouch for protecting their young in the first 
stage of their existence. One of our most common 
flies exemjilifies this. 

It may not have occurred to many of our readers 
that there are more sorts than one of the large flies 
usually ca. ed blow-flies and flesh flies. One of these, 
distinguisheci by its brilliant shining green colour and 
black legs {Musca CcRmr, Linn.), we have adverted 
to§ in recounting the experiments of Redi; another, 
frequently called the blue-bottle {Musca vomilona, 
Linn.), is easily distinguished by the abdomen being 
of a shining blue, the shoulders black, and the forehead 
fox -coloured. The insect, however, to which we wish to 
call attention at present, though nearly the size of the 

* Nouv. Diet. d’ Hist. Nat., xxx.426. 

f Redi, Esperienze intorno alia Gen.degf Insetti, 4to. 16G8. 

J Annales des Sciences Naturelles. § Page 3. 






blue-bottle, rather longer and more slender, and black, 
with lighter stripes on the shoulders, is not blue in the 
abdomen, but greyish black, and all over chequered 
with squares of' a lighter colour. This chequered blow- 
fly (^Sarcophapra enniaria, Meigp.n) does not even 
belong to the same genus as the preceding, and differs 
from it in the remarkable circumstance of hatching 
its eggs in an abdominal pouch, and instead of eggs 
depositing maggots upon dead carcasses. The eggs 
of all the flesh flies are in sultry weather hatched with 
great rapidity ; but in the case of the chequered blow-fly, 
nature has provided the means of still more rapid de- 
struction for removing the offensive parts of carcasses. 
The arrangement of the numerous minute larvce in 
the pouch is very remarkable, and resembles the coil 
of a watch-spring, or a roll of ribbon. Reaumur 
had the patience and perseverance to uncoil this mul- 
titudinous assemblage of flies in embryo, and found it 
about two inches and a half in length, though the 
body of the mother-fly herself was only about one- 



A, the chequered Llow-fly. B, the abdomen of the cliequered 
blow fly, opeiJi-d and magtulied, thewing ihecoil of young larvae. 
C, the coil of larvse partly unwound. 





third of an inch, and he computed that there were 
about 20,000 younj^ in the coil When this extra- 
ordinary fecundity is considered, wc need not wonder 
at the countless swarms which appear as if by magic 
upon a joint of meal during hot weather. 

Like most female insects, the mother-fly dies in a 
few days after giving birth U» her numerous brood ; 
but, unlike the oviparous flies, she seems to take a 
considerable lime to deposit the whole. It would be 
impossible indeed for her pouch to contain the larvae 
if they were all hatched at the same time ; and there- 
fore it has been so ordered by Providence that they 
should aiTive at maturity in succession. From the 
early death of the mother, Reaumur conjectured that 
they did not scniplc to eat their way through her 
bowels ; but he disproved his su|)position by a most 
decisive experiment. He took a fly which had already 
deposited a few larvie, and closed the natural opening 
of the pouch with sealing-wax, so that it was impos- 
sible any more could make their exit there. The mo- 
ther lived several days longer than she would have 
done, had she been left at liberty to produce her 
young ; but not one of them attempted to force a 
passage, after being shut up for ten days. 

Another large grey fly with brick-red eye^ (species 





A, pv('v blow fly, with th“ iibilonicn opened, shewing tlie 

yoiui;^ 111 n, brpaiiiiiJi; .iiipaiuiu.-, ol liie iiiaggol ol a 

large grey biuw-fly. 

lleaumuP; Mem. iv. 417. 






not ascertained) was discovered by Reaumur to be 
ovo-viviparous ; but the embiyo flies were not ar- 
ranc^ed in the pouch in the same spiral form as the 
preceding, but longitudinally. These did not appear 
to be quite so numerous ; and they had a peculiar 
breathing apparatus, which, when shut, as it could be 
at pleasure, appeared in the form of a crown. 

Amongst several other ovo-viviparous flies discovered 
by Reaumur, there was a very minute tipulidan gnat 
(species not ascertained) with a jet-black body, white 
wings, and beaded antennae, not larger than the head 
of an ordinary pin, which was bred in great numbers 
from some cows’ dung put into one of his nurse-boxes 
for another purpose. He justly remarks upon this 
circumstance, that “ the minute and the grand are 
nothing, or rather are the same, to the Author of 
nature.’* 

The numerous genus presents the singular 

anomaly of producing eggs in the autumn and living 
young during summer, and, as Curtis tells us, even 
during winter in green-houses. De Geer, however, 
ascertained that it was not the sameindiridual a])hides 
which at one season produced young and at another 
eggs, but d iff (Tent generations''^. By a series of very 
careful and troublesome experiments Bonnet also 
ascertained the curious fact, that in three months nine 
genenitions of these insects may be produced in suc- 
cession, though the males be rigorously excluded from 
the nurse-boxes where the females are isolated. In 
fact all the aphides produced in spring from the eggs 
laid in autumn appear to be females; and no males are 
produced till the end of summer, a short time before 
the eggs are deposited for winter. Among both males 
and females are some with and some without wings, — 
the nature of which distinction does not appear to be 
yet ascertained. 

* De Geer, Mem. des Inscctes, iii, 70. 






Bonnet, however, whose opinion is entitled to 
considerable authority, seems to think that the eggs of 
aphides which are destined to survive the winter are 
very different from other eggs; and he sup])oses that the 
insect, in a state nearly perfect, quits the body of its 
mother in that covering which shelters it from the cold 
in winter, and that it is not, as other germs are in the 
egg, surrounded by food, by means of which it is de- 
veloped and supported. It is nothing more, he con- 
jectures, than an asvlnin of which the aphides ap- 
pearing at another season have no need ; and it is for 
tliis reason that some are produced naked and others 
enveloped in a covering. If this be correct, the mo- 
thers are not then truly oviparous, e\en in autumn, 
when they deposit these pseudo-eggs ; since their young 
are almost as perfect as they e\er will be, in the asy- 
lum in which they are naturally placed at birth. It 
was in vain that Bonnet endeavoured to ])rcserve 
eggs of this sort in his chamber till spring, in conse- 
quence, he imagines, of the want of a certain degree of 
moisture which tiiey would have had out of doors. We 
have been more successful, through the precaution of 
not taking the eggs from their native tree till Febru- 
ary, and in 1830 we had a brood of several hundreds 
produced of the oak aphis {Aphin Qiicrcvs) 

The failure on the part of Bonnet leads us to re- 
mark, with the younger Huber, that ants are more 
skilful in this respect than naturalists, and anxiously 
nurse, during winter, the eggs of aphides, which they 
collect with great care in the autumn. The interest- 
ing naiTative of the discovery of this we shall give in 
Huber’s own words. 

“ One day in November,” says he, “ anxious to 
know if the yellow ants {Formica flava) began to 
bury themselves in their subteiTanean chambers, I de- 
stroyed, with care, one of their habitations, story by 

J.R. 



 


story. I had not advanced far in this attempt, when 
I discovered an apartment containing an assemblage 
of little eggs, which were for the most part of the 
colour of ebony. Several ants surrounded and ap- 
peared to take great care of them, and endeavoured, 
as quickly as possible, to convey them from my sight. 

I seized upon this chamber, its inhabitants, and the 
treasure it contained. 

“ The ants did not abandon these eggs to make 
their escape ; a stronger instinct retained them : they 
hastened to conceal them under the small dwelling 
which I held in my hand, and when 1 reached home, 

I drew them from it, to observe them more attentively. 
Viewed with a microscope, they appeared nearly of 
the form of ants’ eggs, but their colour was entirely 
dilFerent ; the greater part were black ; others were of 
a cloudy yellow. I found them in several ant-hills, 
and obtained them of different degrees in shade ; they 
were not all black and yellow ; some were brown, of a 
slight and also of a brilliant red and white ; others 
were of a colour less distinct, as straw colour, greyish, 
and I remarked that they were not the same colour at 
both extremities. 

“ To observ e them more closely, I placed them in the 
corner of a box faced with glass ; they were collected 
in a heap like the eggs of ants; their guardians seemed 
to value them highly; after having visited them, they 
placed one part in the earth, but I witnessed the at- 
tention they bestowed upon the rest ; they approached 
them, slightly separating their mandibles ; passed their 
tongue between each, extended them, then walked al- 
ternately over them, depositing, 1 believe, a liquid 
substance as they proceeded. They appeared to treat 
them exactly as if they were eggs of their own 
species ; they touched them with their antennae, and 
frequently carried them in their mouths ; they did not 
quit these eggs a single instant ; they took them 





up, turned them, and after having surveyed them 
with affectionate regard, conveyed them with extreme 
tenderness to the little chamber of earth I had placed 
at their disposal. They were not, however, the eggs 
of ants ; we know that these are extremely white, be- 
coming transparent as they increase in age, but never 
acquire a colour essentially different. 1 was, tor a 
long time, unacquainted with the origin of those of 
which 1 have just spoken, and by chance discovered 
they contained little aphides ; but it was not these in- 
dividual eggs 1 saw them quit ; it was other eggs 
which were a little larger, found in the nests of yellow 
ants, and of a particular species. On opening an ant- 
hill, I discovered several chambers containing a great 
number of brown eggs, of which the ants were ex- 
tremely jealous, carrying them with the utmost expe- 
dition to the bottom of the nest, dis])iitiiig and con- 
tending for them with a zeal which left me no doubt 
of the strong attachment with which they regard 
them. 

“ Desirous of conciliating their interests, as well as 
my own, I took the ants and their treasure, and placed 
them in such a manner that J might easily observe 
them. These eggs were never abandoned. The ants 
took the same care of them as the limner. The fol- 
lowing day 1 saw one of these eggs open, and an 
aphis fully formed, having a large trunk, quit it. I 
knew it to be a puceron of the oak : the others were 
disclosed a few da^s after, and the greater number in 
my presence. They set iinmediaieiy about sucking* 
the juice from some branches of the tree 1 gave them, 
and the ants now found, within their reach, a recom- 
pense for their care and attention. The ant-hill whence 
these eggs had been taken was situated at the foot of 
an oak, which readily accounts lor their existence in 
that place. I discovered them in the spring ; the pu- 
cerons which quitted them were very large for insects 






just born, but they had not yet obtained their full 
size^.** 

It is not, however, the aphides themselves who select 
the siiug^ winter retreat of an ant-hill, or who know 
how to secure the careful nursing* of the ants. All 
this is the sole concern of the latter, to secure for them- 
selves a supply of the honey-dew, as it is erroneously 
called, secreted by the aphides in spring. The ants, 
it may be proper to remark, take similar care of their 
own eggs (as well as of their cocoons, popularly sup- 
posed to be their eggs), as was remarked by Sir E. 
King, in the reign of Charles II. lie informs us that 
they diligently gather together in a heap their true 
eggs, which are small and white like the granules of 
lump sugar, and upon these eggs they lie in multi- 
tudes, “ I suppose,” says Derham, “ by way of in- 
cubation t-” “ I have observed,” adds Sir E. King, 

“ in summer, that in the morning they bring up those 
of their young called ant-eggs (rocoo/is) towards the 
loj) of the bank, so that you may, from ten o’clock till 
five or six in the afternoon, find them near the top,^ — 
for the most part on the south side. But towards 
seven or eight at night, if it be cool, or likely to rain, 
yon may dig a loot deep before you can find themj.” 

An interesting family of two-winged flies {Hip- 
pohoscidfF, Leach) resemble the aphides in some 
points of their economy, though in others they are 
singularly peculiar. Reaumur discovered, what has 
been recently confirmed by Dufour and others, that 
the mothers not only hatch their eggs within the body, 
but retain them there till they are changed into chry- 
salides. Reaumur gives a lively narrative of his 
discov ery, and the solicitude of his serv ants to find him 
female flies ready to dej)Osit what he at first took for 

* M. P. Huber on Ants, p. 245. 
f Derham, Phys. Theol. ii. 207. llth ed, 

$ Phil. Trans. No. xxiii. 






e^^s. He was so anxious to hatch those supposed 
ec^jrs that he carried them in his pocket by day and 
took them to bed with him at ni2:ht, (as Bonnet 
afterwards did with the eggs of a])hides,) for several 
weeks successively ; but instead of grubs, as he had 
expected, perfect flies were evolved exactly similar to 
their parents. He calls them spider flies, from their 
resemblance to spiders ; and in some parts of France 
the species which infests horses (Hippohosca equina) 
is called the Spaniard or Breton : in England it is 
too well known under the name of the Ibrest fly. 



Spuk'r flies ( IhppvbosridcF, J.vach, ) 

We have the more wdllingly introduced this sub- 
ject here, that another fly {Craio'ina Hlrundinis^ 
Olfeus), of the same family, has the instinct to de- 
posit its egg-like cocoons in the warm feathery nest of 
swallows, where they have all the necessary heat 
which Reaumur, in his experiments, was so careful 
to maintain. In return for the warmth which the 
young has thus received, the j)eifect fly, dining its 
brief existence, lives by sucking the lilood of the swal- 
lows, as the one first mentioned sucks the blood of 
horses, horned cattle, and, it is also said, of man. 






The effect of heat upon the of insects has been 
carried much farther than in the experiments just 
alluded to of Reaumur and Bonnet Spallanzani was 
desirous of ascertaiiiino* what dei^ree of heat the e^gs 
of insects and other animals, as well as the seeds of 
plants, would bear when compared with their larvae; 
and he found that below 93*^ Fahr. silk-worms did 
not appear alfccted, but at 95°, and still more at 97°, 
they became restless, while at 99° they ceased to move, 
and all died at 108° The eg’pcs of these, on the 
other hand, long; resisted the influence of heat. At 
80° they were the most productive ; at 99° many still 
appeared, but with considerable diminution, and as 
the heat was increased their fertility decreased, till at 
144° not one was fertile. 'J'he egc^s and caterpillars 
of the elm butterfly (Variesfta po/ychloros?) j)crfectly 
corresponded with those of the silk-worm. In the case 
of the eg^gs of the blow-fly {Mu sea vomitoria) a great 
many produced maggots at 124° ; but at 135° and 
138° very few, and all were sterile at 140° The 
mag’gots })roduced from these eggs became restless at 
88°, and endeavoured to esca})e, and as this heat was 
increased they became i)roportionably more agitated 
till it arose to 108°, when they all perished. Full- 
grown maggots of the same kind all died at 108°; 
but when changed into flies they died when the heat 
was so low as 99°; though their pupje were produc- 
tive at 104° and 100^ but not at 1 1 l°t. 

If these experiments may, as we believe they may, 
be relied on, we have some reason to doubt that “ the 
eggs of the musca vomitoria^ our common blow-fly, 
are oiten,” as Dr. (lood affirms, “ deposited in the 
heat of summer u]K)n putrescent meat, and broiled 
with such meat over a gridiron in the form of steaks, in 
a heat not merely of' 212°, but of' three or four times 
212° ; and yet, instead of being hereby destroyed, we 

See ]n?ect Arcliilccture, p.‘24. 
t Spullanzani, Tracts by Dalyell, vol. i. p.35. 





sometimes find them quickened by this very exposure 
into their larva or gnib state It would have been 
well if some more accurate authority had been given for 
so miraculous a fact than this general staierrient : the 
appearance of maggots on broiled meat, from which the 
inference is apparently made, seems rather to indicate 
that eggs, or more probably ovo-viviparous larva% had 
been deposited there, not before^ but after the broiling. 

One certain result of all such experiments is, that 
eggs are more capable of withstanding heat than the 
animals producing them; and from similar experi- 
ments the same law appears to hold with the seeds 
of plants, which also withstand more heat than 
eggs. Water increases the destructive influence of 
heat. The causes upon which these curious facts 
depend do not ap])ear to be well understood. It is 
certain, however, tljat the life of an animal in the egg 
is feeble, or at least lethargic, in comparison with that 
of the animal produced; and that animals, when in a 
state of very feeble animation, resist external inju- 
ries with more impunity than when very vivacious. 
We once saw a very delicate young girl, emaciated 
with scrofula, have her leg amputated without even 
heaving a sigh; while a robust Irish labourer, who 
underwent the same operation immediately after her, 
roared like a bull. ' 

Experiments prove that the fluids of eggs, and con- 
sequently of their germs, are more abundant than in 
vegetable seeds ; and this excess of fluid may lend to 
destroy the germ more readily, from heat expanding 
the fluids, and thus putting them in motion : for then 
they must strike violently against the tender parts of the 
germs, and rupture and destroy them. Hence seeds 
exposed to heat are killed at lower degrees in water, 
than if dry, in the same way as ice will melt sooner 
in warm water than in air of equal temperature f- 

* Good’s Book of Nature, vol. i. p. 221. 1st edit, 
t Spallanzani, Tracts by Dalyell, vol. i. p. 43. 






In the practical manac^emeiit of the e^^s of the silk- 
worm Count Dandolo directs the temperature of the 
stove-room to be 64° when they are first put in. 
“ The third day the temperature should be raised to 
66° ; the fourth day to 6S° ; the fifth day to 7 i° ; the 
sixth day to 73°; the seventh day to 75°; the 
eighth day to 77°; the ninth day to 80°; the tenth, 
eleventh, and twelfth days to 82° When the tempe- 
rature of the sto\ e-room is raised to 75°, it is advan- 
tageous to have two dishes, in which water may be 
poured, so as to offer a surface of nearly four inches 
diameter. In four days there will iiave taken place 
an evaporation of nearly twelve ounces of water; the 
vapour, which rises very slowly, moderates the dry- 
ness which might occur in the stove-house, particu- 
larly during a northerly wind : very dry air is not 
favourable to the development of the silk-worm*.’^ 
Damp or stagnant air, or sudden changes of tempera- 
ture, either high or low, are exceedingly injurious to 
the hatching of eggs. 

From some very curious experiments of Miche- 
lotti, it appears that exposure to light is by no means 
favourable to the hatching of eggs. This ingenious 
naturalist inclosed a number of eggs in glass vessels, 
admitting the light to one series and excluding it 
from another, similar in every other particular. The 
result was, that few or none of the eggs exposed to 
light were hatched, while those in tiie dark were 
almost all fertile, lie arrived at the same results in 
his experiments upon vegetable seeds t* Kirby and 
Spence justly remark, that these curious facts may 
account for so many insects fastening their eggs to the 
under sides of leaves, and may be the final cause of 
the opaque horny texture of those exposed in full day J. 

Among the singular circumstances in which insects 
differ from the larger animals, we may reckon that 

'’Count Dandolo, on Silk-Worms, Eng. trans., p. 55. 

f Philosophical Mag. vol. ix. p. 244. J Introduc. iii. p. 77. 





of the echo’s of some increasinir in size durinp;* the pro- 
cess of hatching. The facta^jpears to have first been 
noticed by the celebrated Vallisnieri in his observa- 
tions on saw flies {Tenthredinidce^ Leach) Other 
instances were subsequently discovered by Reau- 
mur, De Geer, Derham, Rosel, and the youno;er 
Huber. “ It oua:ht not,” says Reaumur, speakino* of 
gall flies {(hjnipida^, Westwood), “ to be passed in 
silence, that the egg which I found in the gall appeared 
to me considerably larger than the eggs of the same 
species when they proceed from the body of the fly, 
or even when they are taken from the mother fly 
near the time of their being laid. The whole of 
those I look from the mother flies which 1 killed were 



Generation of a water-inite (^Ih/dravhna nhstergens'). 
a a, the water scorpion, iii whose body the mite lixes her egCT'^- 
h b, a inapiitied view of one ol it.s claws, c, a tooth lihe process 
for restraining; tlie motion of the joint, rf, the wafer- mite, c, a 
greatly iiiagnitied view of one of its eggs, f, the hook by winch 
It IS inserted into the body of the scorpion. 

See Insect Architecture, pp. 157-8. 

 


remarkably small ; and I thence inferred that the e^c^ 
would have, and indeed had, increased in the gallV* 

Rosel made a similar observation on the red eggs 
of a water-mite {Hydrachna absiergei^s) ; and he was 
induced to suppose (justly, as we think) that, as they 
are deposited upon the bodies of water-scorpions 
{Nepidfp, J^EACii), they derive their means of in- 
crease from thcmt- Geer remarked that the 
water-scorpions, when much inlested with them, be- 
came ^’ra(lually weakened as the ec^gs increased in 
size 

Huber the youno-cr, in the course of his experi- 
ments, discovered tliat the ec:p:s of ants, from being 
small and o})acjue, became comparatively large and 
transparent. “To be convinced of the truth of this,’’ 
he says, “ I viewed those eggs with the microscope. 
I also measured them, and having sejiarated them 
from each other, found the longest to be those only 
in which the grubs were hatched in my presence. 
If 1 removed them from the workers, belbre they 
attained their lull length and transparency, they 
dried up, and the grubs never quitted them.” 
Huber is inclined to attribute this remarkable in- 
crease and transparency to the humidity imparted to 
them by the working ants who so assiduously pass 
them through their mouths. “ For,’' he adds, “if they 
be not surrounded with a liquid, or jireserved from the 
influence of the external air, their pellicle, moistened 
every instant by the workers, may preserve a certain 
degree of siqipleness and expansibility, according 
to the development of the included grub§.” 

The most minute observations, however, of this 
kind, which have hitherto been jiiiblished, were made 

* Reaumur, Mem. vol. iii. p. 479. 
f Kosel, InseclctJ. vol. iii. p. 152. 

X De Geer, Mern. des In^ectcs, vol. vii. p. 145. 

§ M. P, Huber on Ants, p, 72, 






by Heroldt on the egf?s of the garden spider (Epeira 
diadema), to which we formerly alluded. He divides 
the process of hatching into twelve periods, according 
to the proo;ress of development. This ])roo;ress is not 
measured by time, as has been done in experimenting 
on the of birds. The «erm, or cicatricula, which 
is composed of minute «Tanules, when placeil in a 
due temperature, begins to expand towards the extre- 
mity of the till it takes the form of a comet, 

whose nucleus is the centre of the sferm, and whose 
tail consists of transparent globules. On continuing 
to expand, or rather to dis])erse its granules, they 
appear to be decom]M)sed into imperceptible molecules, 
producing a sort of translucent cloud, through which 
the globules of the jolk may be distinguished. The 
place which the germ previously occu})ied appears as 
a single transjDarent point. The cloudy matter » 
next accumulates round the centre of the germ, 
assumes a pearly aspect, and becomes solid and 
opacpie. This is the rudiment of the embryo sjfider, 
the outline of whose head and body becomes ap])a- 
rent, occupying a little more than a fourth of the egg. 
At first this embryo a])pears homogeneous, but by and 
bye four little archlets arc seen, which are the rudi- 
ments of the legs, and at the same time the outlines 
of the mandibles are formed. The whole seems to 
derive nourishment from the yolk, in which it is rooted 
as a parasite ])lanl u])on a tree. When the embryo 
spider is near its exclusion, it completely fills the interior 
of the egg, the shell of which moulds itself closely 
around the body, and it looks like the n)m])hof a 
beetle^. When suniciently developed, it makes a rent 
in the shell, as was first observed by De Geer, oppo- 
site the breast, through which it pushes its head, and 
successively disengages its bodv ; but the shell still 
envelopes the legs and feet, and it is not without a 
* Hejoldt, lixercit. de Gcner. Aranearuin in 0\o. 

 


^reat deal of trouble, by alternately stretchins^ out and 
contractiiis^ them, that it succeeds in rending this, and 
sets itsell’at liberty*. Even then the younp; spider can 
neither spin a web nor catch prey ; for it is still en- 
veloped in an extremely delicate membrane, which it 
docs not moult unless the weather is favourable and 

finef. 



Iliitching: of tho of Ihf t[fiY(\cn $pn]er (Epcira diadema), rt, 
natunil size, h, luaj^nilied, tlie cicatruMila (a white s])()t ) in the 
front, C, till' tterin eiilarped ; n, the head, and hy the body ot the 
embryo, d, the embryo spider ready to east ofl’ its first skin. 

The hitter circumstance will enable us to explain 
some experiments made by Eedi, who kept spiders 
newly hatched for many months without food In the 
experiments made by us upon thee«;^s of the wolf spider 
{Lycosa sarcata), we more than once kept the >oung 
in boxes, wlicre they were foro'otten and without food ; 
and we uniformly linuid that they remained lively and 
well so lon«; as they did not cast their embr)o skin; 
but when they did moult, they could not long* survive 
the want of sustenance §. 

In the cg’gs of moths, the embryo, previous to ex- 
clusion, may be seen throug’h the shell, snugly coiled 

4: De Geer, Mem. Aii., p. I'Jti. 
f Diet. Ciassique d’Hisl. Nat. xii. 141. 

J Kedi, Esperienze, 99. J. R. 







up in a ririp:, as is distinctly shewn in many of the 
beautiful and accurate figures of Sepp^. 



effg of llie privet liawlj moth { Sphtn.r Tjiqu^fri') wdgri\Redt 
shewing the inelosed embryo, b, ihe caterpillar, when grown. 

In the case of the eggs of birds, the chick, when 
fully developed, breaks the shell with its bill, the 
point of which is then furnished with a hard scale. This 
is evidently contrived by providential wisdom for this 
very jnnpose, lor it drops otl' in a few days after the 
chick is evcliided. It is probable that the larvje of 
many insects which are furnished with strong man- 
dibles gnaw their way through the egg-shell ; but we 
know that there are others which, lil\c the spider, 
rupture their envelope, since the edges ai)pear ragged 
and irregular. Otliers, again, seem to have an open- 
ing jirovided for them, in a door, which only requires 
them to push it open. This is the case with the louse 
(^Pcdiculus hintianiis)^ and witli the bird-louse 
(iV2>7??7/.s), found on the neck feathers of the golden 
pheasant. A still more ingenious contrivance was 
discovered by the Rev. R. Slieppard, in the egg of a 
field bug [Ptiitaiomay Lath.), which is not only fur- 

Der Wonderen Gods, jmssim. 



Doors in oiri;:'' for tho esofipo of fli^* larvie. 
a, ogp: of I li'" I'lUso { I‘t‘fliculus /itniinuus). 6, of llip jicntii- 
tonri c, blu'll of a inoth'b louiul upon the dou-berry, all inag- 
nwiod. 

nishcd with a convex lid, but with a lc\er of a horny 
texture, and in the form of a cross-])ow, for opening it, 
the handle beiiri^ fixed to the lower ])art of the by a 
membrane, and the bow part to the lid''^. On the 
leaf of a dew-l)erry (Rubi/s cfcsws) we found a 
beautifully ribbed eg'^ of some moth, which, having 
been brought into oiir study in January, 1830, was 
hatclied by the Avarnith, aiid exhibited an openinj^ 
similar to the elastic cocoon of the emperor-moth ; each 
of the ribs ha\in^ exj)anded to allow of the escape of 
the caterpillar. 

The ])eriod at which the eg;g:s of insects are hatched 
after deposition depends mainly upon temj)erature ; 
for by keeping them in an ice-house in summer, the 
hatching may be retarded f, as it may be hastened 
(witness the instance in the preceding paragraph) by 
heat in winter ; but there are many other circum- 
stances unknown to us \thich often hasten or retard 
the process. The eggs of the blow-fly {Muaca vomi- 
toria) are said to hatch within two hours J, while those 
of several moths, and numerous other insects, remain 
unhatched for six or nine months; perhaps, in some 
cases, even for one or more }ears It is worthy of re- 

Kirby and Spence, iii. 104. f Reaumur, Mem. 

1 Nouv. Diet. d'Hist. Nat. xii. 5G4. 






mark, however, that the periods of hatching corre- 
spond in a striking manner with the leafing of trees, 
and the appearance of other materials fitted for the food 
of the young. We observed a good example of this 
in the spring of 18r29. A lackey moth had deposited 
during autumn a spiral ring of her eggs on the branch 
of a sweet-briar planted in a garden-pot out of doors. 
We removed this into our study during the winter. 
Here the warmth caused the tree to bud, and at the 
same time hatched the lackeys about a month sooner 
than those out of doors. Owing to the same cause, se- 
veral colonies of the caterpillars of the brown-tail moth 
revi\edfrom their tor[)idity, and came forth from their 
winter nests before the hawthorns were in leaf, a cir- 
cumstance which would not have happened to them 
out of doors Kirby and Spence give an instance 
precisely similar, of the eggs of an aphis found on 
the birch, and hatched in-doors a lull month before 
those in the open airf. 

It is a remarkable circumstance, long observed by 
collectors, that the male broods of insects appear 
earlier than the female broods ; and it would appear 
from the following fact, that there is a similar retarda- 
tion ill the haichiiig of female eggs. “ Upon the 
leaf of a jioplar tree were found three eggs of the 
puss moth {Ce.rura vinula)^ two of which were hatched 
about two weeks before the other. The first were 
males, the last a female. As they were on the 
same leaf, and presumed, therefore, to have been 
laid by the same parent, at the same time, the diller* 
ence of hatching could not have, arisen from ditlcreiice 
of weather, cxiiosure, Ac. X* In the case of the 
lackeys on the sweet-briar above-mentioned, some 
were hatched several days before others, but whether 
these were of ditferent sexes we did not ascertain. 

* J. R. f Kirby and Spence, Intr. ii. 434. 

I J. Rennie, in Mag. of Nat. Hist., \ol.i. p. 373. 





Structure of Caterpillars, Grubs, and Maggots. 

It is reported by Boerhaave, in his life of Swammer- 
dam, that when the Grand Duke of Tuscany was 
visiting the curiosities of Holland, in 1668, he found 
iiothine; more worthy of his admiration than the na- 
turalist’s account of the stmcture of caterpillars , — for 
Swammerdam, by the skilful manac^ement of instni- 
ments of wonderful delicacy and fineness, shewed 
the prince in what manner the future butterfly lies 
neatly folded up in the caterpillar, like a flower in 
the unexpanded bud. He was, indeed, so struck 
with this and other wonders of the insect world, dis- 
closed to him by the ^reat naturalist, that he made 
him a princely offer to induce him to reside at his 
court; but Swammerdam, from feelings t)f indepen- 
dence, modestly declined to accept it, preferrinp^ to 
continue his deliji'htful studies at home. The facts 
which thus struck the Duke with admiration, we shall 
now endeavour, with the aid of Swammerdam, to 
trace. But, before we proceed, it may not be out of 
place to advert to some very novel views which have 

* It may be proper to repeat here, that an insect, when hatched 
from the eg-g, is called by naturalists larva; and in popular lan- 
guage, a caterpillar or grub^ if furnished with feet, and a maggoty 
wormy or gentle, if without feet. 






been recently started by continental naturalists, who 
maintain that vegetables are actually converted into 
animals, and these ac^ain into vec^etables. 

It must be obvious, we think, from the details we 
have already ^iven, that the doctrine of trammuia- 
</o7i, so far as regards insects, is equally absurd and 
impossible with the pretended alchemical transmutation 
of lead and other inferior metals into gold and silver; 
whicli doctrine was, indeed, supported upon the sup- 
posed fact of insects being thus tmnsmuted But vi- 
sionary as either of these may appear, they have both 
been supported by men of talent and distinguished re- 
putation. It does not, perhaps, at first sight seem more 
impossible, that water should be transmuted into 
diamonds, or brass into gold, than that an egg should 
disclose a chick or a cateqnllar, or that a caterpillar 
should change into a butterfly or a beetle ; but by 
adhering rigidly to facts, and rejecting as rigidly all 
fancies and analogies, how jdausible soever they may 
appear, we are certain that the latter changes are of 
common occurrence, whereas the former are contrary 
to all experience, and to the best experiments. We 
say the beat; because observations, if not experiments, 
have been made for the express purpose of proving 
such improbable transmutations. 

“ I have shewn to a great number of persons,*’ 
says Professor Agardh, “ the changeable crow-silk 
{Conferva mutabilis^ Roth ; Draparnaldia m. 
Bory St. V.) in its state of a plant, the 3d of August, 
change by the 5th into molecules endowed with loco- 
mobility, reunite by the 6th into simple articulations, 
and reconstituted by the 1 0th into the primitive form 
of the plant t-'* Prexious to this (in 1814) Professor 
Nees von Esenbeck, of Bonn, published similar obser- 

^ Sir Theodore Mayerne, Epist. Dedicat ad Theatrum Insect. 
JMoufielii. 

f Agurdh, Diss.deMetamorph.AIgarum. 1820. 





vations, in which he remarks, that “ as the phenomena 
in question appear to contradict certain principles 
admitted into the reign iiic^ systems, we often prefer 
rather to deny the conclusions of candid and ex- 
perienced observers, than to receive what has hitherto 
been regarded as untenable by generally admitted au- 
thority. In this situation are placed all observations 
upon the transition or metamorphosis of vegetable life 
(characterised by immobility) into animal life (cha- 
racterised by mobility) ; — the moment when a being, 
arrived at the period of its existence, continues itself, 
as it were, by a new creation, and the animated em- 
bryo developes itself into a motionless vegetable*.** 
Agardh, in his account of another allied family 
(^Ocillatorioi), has even given figures, first of the 
plant, and then of the animalcules into which its 
filaments are convertedt, which induced Bory St. 
Vincent to remark sarcastically, that “ all nature 
appears, to the Professor of Lund, to be nothing but 
conferva) travestied i-’* 

Passing over what has been published on this 
strange doctrine by Vaucher, Girod-Chantrans, 
Treviranus, Cams, and others, we shall only stop to 
mention the more recent observations of Francis 
Unger. Ihe plant he selected was the Conferva 
dilatata ^ of Roth. “ Within the space of one hour,** 
says he, “ I succeeded in tracing, not only the dimi- 
nution of vitality and death of the animalcules, but 
also the subsequent development of the dead animals 
into germinating plants, in such a manner as to 
establish the truth of the fact."’ He adds with great 
simplicity, “ 1 could scarcely believe my own eyes§.** 
Like Agardh, he has given figures of these miracu- 

? Quoted in Annales dcs Sciences Naturelles” for 1828. 

f Agardh, leones Als:. ined. i.lO. 

+ Did. (;las^ique d’HUt. Nat,x. 469. 

\ Annales des Sciences Nat., 1828. 





lous changes, which our readers may be curious to 
see. 



Supposed animal and vegetable metamorphoses. 


Since the only proof of tliese plants being trans- 
muted (as is alleged) into animals, appears to be 
their acquiring motion and, as linger says, 
“ swimming freely about;” we think we should be 
equally entitled to infer (hat camphor is animated 
because it moves spontaneously when thrown into 
water. This property iit camphor has not hitherto 
been satisfactorily explained; and it would undoubt- 
edly be better to leave the phenomena described by our 
advocates for transmutation likewise unexplained, 
than to leap at once to their startling conclusions. 
“ W’e might as well,” says Bory St, Vincent, 
“ astonish the world with the discovery of a fig- 
tree transmuted into a mulberry tree, because the 
Brovsfi 07 ietia, when young, has the leaves of the one, 
and when old of the other ; and by such a system of 
observing we shall end in looking upon the oak and 
the mistletoe as the same plant : the w and of Circe 
could not produce more astounding consequences 
? Nees von Esenbeck, 





than the microscope does in the hands of such 
observers^'.” 

It is apparently a branch of the same untenable 
theory, which maintains that the lliiid termed by 
Heroldt the blood of caterpillars is the only original 
portion of them, which, beinp^ endowed with a forma- 
tive power f, produces an envelope for itself of mucous 
net-work {nie mucosim), and this aG;ain, by means of 
a similar power, is successively transmuted into the 
caterpillar, the ])upa, and the perfect insect in some 
similar way, we suppose, to the formative power dis- 
played by water, when, during frost, it shoots into 
crystals of ice. But the framers of such theories seem 
to forp^et that living* * * § blood is a very different thing 
from inanimate water, and the growth and nutrition 
of animals from the chemical formation of crystals. 
Kirby and Si)ence very justly remark, that Hcroldfs 
formative power is only an apology for ignorance, and 
that his denying the existence of what he cannot trace, 
is no proof of Ids doctrine, but of his mistake in sup- 
posing the first appearance of the organs of the but- 
terfly in his microscope to be literally their first 
existence. To suppose the blood, we may also remark, 
endowed with the power of creating inse(!ts, gets rid 
of no difficulty and explains no phenomenon, while it 
is altogether a gratuitous assumi)tion, unproved 
and improbable. “ Admirable discovery,’^ exclaims 
Virey ; “ as if you should affirm that a stone falls 
because it falls§I'’ We think it is St. Pierre who 
remarks, that Nature seldom permits philosophers to 
peep to the bottom of her basket; and we have already 

* Diet. Class, d’ Hist. Nat. x. 4t)8. 

f The German term b “ Bildende Kraft,” i. e. P^is formatrix, 
or Nisus format IV us. 

:j: Heroldt, quoted by Kirby and Spence, iii. 83. 

§ Quoted by ^iby and Spence. 





recorded many instances, besides the one under con- 
sideration, of their strani^e mistakes in guessiiif^ at 
what they cannot fathom. Wc prefer folio winc^ 
Swammerdam, Reaumur, and Bonnet, in recording 
what can be actually seen on examining the structure 
of caterpillars. 

In a chapter of Swammerdam’s Book of Nature, 
quaintly headed “ An animal in an animal, or the 
butterfly hidden in the cater|)illar,” we find the fol- 
lowing details respeciing the caterpillar of the large 
cabbage butterfly (Pontia braaaicep). The egg of 
this insect is of a yellow colour, flask shaped, and 
marked with fifteen ribs, converging towards the 
smaller end, and extending a little beyond it. The 



Kg-g; of the large cabbage butterfly (^Pvntla brassiccB), magnified. 

caterpillar, but too well known from its ravages, has 
sixteen feet, a yellow line along the back, and another 
on each side, the rest of the body being bluish grey, 
spotted with black; and the whole surface sprinkled 
with thin, short, whitish hairs*. 

“ In order,” continues Swammerdam, “ to discover 
plainly that a butterfly is inclosed and hidden in the 

* Hay, Cat. Cantab., quoted by Swammerdam. See fig. a, 
page G2. 




sliin of this caterpillar, the follovvinj^ operation must 
be used. One must kill a full-grown caterpillar, tie a 
thread to its body, and dip it for a minute or two into 
boiling water. The outer skin will, after this, easily 
separate, because the fluids, between the two skins, 
are by this means rarefied and dilated, and therefore 
they break and detach both the vessels and the fibres 
wherewith they were united together. By this means 
the outer skin of the caterpillar, being separated, may 
be easily drawn off i'rom the butterfly which is contained 
and folded up in it. This done, it is clearly and dis- 
tinctly seen, that, within this skin of the caterpillar, a 
perfect and real butterfly was hidden, and therefore 
the skin of the caterpillar must be considered only as 
an outer garment, containing in it parts belonging to 
the nature of a butterfly, which have grown under its 
defence by slow degrees, in like manner as other sen- 
sitive bodies increase by accretion. 

“ But as these limbs of the butterfly which lie under 
the skill of the caterpillar cannot, without great diffi- 
culty, be discovered in the full-grown caterpillar, unless 
by a person accustomed to such experiments, — because 
they are then very soft, tender, and small, and are 
moreover complicated or folded together, and inclosed 
in some membranaceous coverings, — it is, therefore, 
necessary to defer the ojieration just now proposed, 
until the several parts of the butterfly become some- 
what more conspicuous than at first, and are more 
increased and .swelled under the skin by the force of 
the intruded blood and a(|ueous humour. This is 
known to be the case when the caterjiillar ceases to eat, 
and its skin on each side of the thorax, near under the 
head, is then observed to be more and more elevated 
by the increasing and swelling limbs, and shews the 
?ippearance of two pairs of prominent tubercles 
* Swammerdam, Book of Nature, ii. 2G. 






By similar dissections, Malpighi both actually dis- 
covered the moth in the body ol‘ a silk worm, and also 
the eggs of it and Reaumur made a similar disco- 
very in the caterpillar of the gypsey moth {Hypogymna 
dispar) t- 



Female of the perfe<;t eabhufre butterfly irontia brassic(»). 

In order to harden tlic parts of the inci})ient butterfly 
that are soft, Swammerdam immersed the caterpillar 
in a phial filled with equal parts of vinegar and spirit 
of wine for sixteen hours, when he found it would 

* Malpighi de Bombyce, 29. f Ktaumur, Mem. i. 359. 




better bear handling. It may be necessary to remark, 
that though all the parts of the butterfly are in this 
mariner discoverable in the caterpillar, they are only 
in the bud, if we may use the expression, and appear to 
be out of proportion from being so closely folded up and 
unexpanded. The whole, indeed, bears so much ana- 
logy to the embryo of a plant in the seed, or the rudi- 











a, greatly magnified view of a section of the bud of the labur- 
num. It exhibits the nascent flowers, arranged in regular order, 
previously to their bursting into perfect existence, h, section of 
a bean seed, c, seed-leaves, root, and the first true leaf of the 
beech. 





merits of a leaf or of a flower in the bud» that Swam- 
merdam has ^iven fi genres of the parallel developments 
of larvfE and of a carnation. His selection of this 
flower was not perhaps the most happy ; but our readers 
may readily obtain examples by carefully dividing^ the 
unexpanded buds of the rose, the lilac, the horse- 
chesiiut, the American walnut, or beans, and other 
lar 2 :e seeds after they have been planted in moist 
earth, but not left long’ enough to shoot into a plant. 
The preceding figures will illustrate this better than 
description. Dr. Drew proved in this manner that 
flowers which blow in spring are formed in the pre- 
ceding year ^ ; and Du Hamel, on dissecting, in 
January, the bud of a pear-tree, found under an 
envelope of about thirty leaf scales eight or ten 
embryo flowers resembling rose-buds bestudded with 
hairs f. 

The butterfly and the flower-bud, however, differ re- 
markably in the manner in which they are nourished, — 
the latter receiving sap from the enveloping leaf scales, 
the former taking food into the stomach through the 
mouth of the caterpillar. The stomach, indeed, of the 
inclosed butterfly is so capacious, that it fills the 
greater portion of its body ; and requires the caterpillar 
to occupy almost its whole time in eating in order to 
satisfy its cravings. When the food is digested in the 
stomach of the insect, it passes, as in the larger animals, 
into the small intestines I ; but it is not, as in them, 
collected by innumerable little vessels which aftenvards 
run into one, (as brooks unite to form a river,) and go 
to the lungs to be exposed to the air, supplied by 
breathing, in order to be there oxygenated and formed 
into red blood. Insects, on the contrary, do not 

^ Grew. Phys. Veg., ii. fiO. 
f Du Hamel, Physique de^' Arbres, iii., 1. 

J See Insect Architecture,” p. 309, D, D.; and this vol. p. 198. 

 

breathe by the mouth, and are not furnished with 
lunges ; for though good air is no less essential to their 
nutrition and existence, it is brought to act on the di- 
gested food in a different manner. In caterpillars, and 
in most perfect insects, the air is respired by breath- 
ing-tubes — usually eighteen in number — placed along 
the sides *, the mouths *of which may be seen moving, 
as the air passes in and out, from ten to thirty times 
in a minute. When these are covered with oil, or any 
other matter preventing the entrance of the air, the 
insect, being unable to breathe, is suffocated and dies, 
as was observed two thousand years ago by Aristotle t . 
The breathing-tubes all run into what may be called a 
wind-pipe, one of which lies along each side of the 
insect; and these two wind-pipes send off' innumerable 
small branches with air to the vessels containing the 
digested food, supplying it with oxygen for the pur- 
poses of nourishment. A fluid is thus ])re})ared ana- 
logous to the blood of the larger animals, and stored 
up in a large dorsal vessel ; but this is not at all like 
a heart, for though it has been observed to beat, its 
motions do not seem to be constant or regular, and 
no blood-vessels go off from it. The fluid analogous 
to blood may perhaps ])ass through this singular reser- 
voir, as water does through blotting pa])cr ; but as 
yet this process has not been accurately in\ estigated. 
A more distinct notion, however, of the process of 
insect breathing may be obtained from Swammer- 
dam’s sketch of the interior of the water-grub of a 
May-fly {Ephemera). 

It is further conjectured that the portion of the 
blood not immediately wanted for nourishing the or- 
gans already formed, goes to form a mass of thickish 
mucilage, contained in floating membranes of a white. 


Insect Archi. p. 308, f Aristotle, Hist. Animal., viii. 27. 










Dissection of the water pjrnh of a May fly (Ephemera). The 
back is laid open, and the nerves, intestines, and respiratory 
apparatus exhibited, a a a n a a. mx clusters of short tubes, 
opening on both sides, through which the creat re breathes: the 
air contained in the water, passing tlirough hese, enters two 
wind-pipes, h b b b, nittning from head to t il, and circulates 
through every part of the body. The eight fin and a portion of 
the tail bristle ^ have been omitted, to give tin of the figure 
on a larger scale. The central white lines are .he nerves. 


 


yellow, or p^reen colour, and apparently analogous to 
fat in the larger animals This furnishes, as is fur- 
ther supposed, a store of nutriment for promoting 
the growth of the butterfly f. 

This brief sketch will serve to give the reader a tole- 
rable notion of the internal structure of caterpillars, 
and the manner in which their food is elaborated into 
nutriment ; but when we know that Lyonnet wrote a 
large quarto volume on the structure of a single cater- 
pillar, and that Malpighi, lleroldt, Ramdohr, Spren- 
gel, and Marcel de Serres, are little less voluminous, 
it will be understood that we give it merely as a 
sketch which we could easily have extended, had it 
appeared, as it docs not, to be suitable to our plan. It 
will prove more interesting, we think, to pass now to 
the external structure and appearance. 

It will be obvious from what we have said re- 
specting the colours of eggs, that we are not in- 
clined to adopt in all its extent the theory of many 
naturalists, which maintains the peculiar colours and 
forms of animals to be gi\en them by nature lor the 
purpose of concealment from their enemies. As in 
the instance of caterpillars this theory meets us again 
in full torcc, we shall mention a few facts which ap- 
pear not only to be at variance with it, but shew, we 
think, that the facts of the theorists may stand as 
appropriately for exception’s as for a general rule. 
Since cater])illars form the staple food of soft- billed 
birds and of the young of most hard-billed birds, not 
to mention the parasite grubs of ichneumon flies which 
destroy great numbers, nature has provided an im- 
mense abundance of them beyond what is requisite 
for continuing the race. Were it maintained, there- 
fore, that they were all by design so formed and 
coloured as to deceive the eyes of birds and ichneu- 

? Lyonnet, Anat. de la Chenille, 106, 
f lleauniur,Mein. i. 145. 





mons, the purpose of their superabundant production 
would be frustrated. We have no doubt, indeed, that 
insectivorous animals can instinctively detect their 
prey, in all the usual modes of concealment, as 
acutely as the practised eye of a naturalist, who can 
with ease perceive what escapes the observation of the 
inexperienced. When a woodpecker is taught by na- 
ture to detect a wood-boring caterpillar, by the bark 
sounding hollow when lapped with his bill, and when 
an ichneumon tly can detect a chrysalis closely rolled 
up in a leaf we should be strongly inclined to doubt 
that colour or form could afford very effectual conceal- 
ment from enemies, though we readily grant that 
many probable instances of this have been adduced. 
Of these instances it may be well to give a few ex- 
amples. 

The caterpillar of a nocturnal moth (Noctua algcBy 
Fabr.) is said to assume the colour of the lichens 
upon which it feeds, being grey when it feeds on a 
grey one {Parmelia saxatilifiy Acii.), and always yel- 
low when it feeds on a yellow one (Cetraria juni- 
perina, Acii.t) ; the change of colour being (it is 
alleged) intended by Providence to conceal it from 
its enemies, as it becomes difficult to distinguish it 
from the lichens. The caterpillar of the coronet moth 
{Acronycta Li gastric Ochsknheim.), which feeds 
upon the privet, is so exactly of the colour of the un- 
derside of the leaf, to which it usunlly clings during 
the day, that a person may have the leaf in his hand 
without discovering the caterpillar J ; a circumstance 
explained upon the same principle. This, indeed, is 
no uncommon circumstance, as many caterpillars 
very nearly resemble the colour of the leaves upon 
which they feed ; and the wonder rather is, that so 

* See “Insect Arrhiteclure,” p. 174-5. 
f Fabr. Vorlcsun^. in Kirby and Sjience, ii. 220. 

[]. Brahm, Inscclcn, in ibid. p. 221. 




many others should not be similarly coloured, when 
we consider that their stomachs occupy the greater 
portion of their bodies, and are generally gorged with 
food. It would be no difficult matter, therefore, to 
enumerate several hundred examples of caterpillars 
resembling in colour the substances upon which they 
feed. It strikes us as more singular to find a great 
many which, though they feed on green leaves, re- 
semble in colour the grey or brown bark of the 
branches where they usually rest when not feeding. 



Caterpillar^ of the CUfden nonpareil feeding on the grey poplar. 

A marked instance of this occurs in the caterpillar of 
one of our largest and most beautiful moths, the Clif- 
den nonpareil {Catocala frajcin/. Sen rank), which 
feeds on the ash and the poplar, and is so similar to 
a stripe of brown lichen dotted with black, that it 
would not be readily discovered by any person but a 
naturalist^. 


*J. R. 




Caterpillars of the Clifden nonpareil in a more advaneod stagfe of jjrowth. 

Of the extraordinary tropical insects popularly 
termed Walking-leaves, belonging to several orders 
and families (Lon/s/fif, MantiSy Phaamay &c.), the 
wing-cases, not only in colour, but in texture, and 
even in veining, are so exactly like leaves, from the 
fresh green of those newly expanded to the faded 
brown of those withered and fallen, that botanists 
themselves might be deceived if they were detached 
I'rorn the insects and exhibited as real leaves. Among 
the locusts of Fabricius (Plerojihyllay Kiiiby) alone, 
we find the various species with wing-cases re- 
sembling in this m.anner the leaves of the laurel, the 
myrtle, the citron, the lily, the sage, the olive, the ca- 
mellia, thyme, and grass. 

The Spectres (P/iasmata% Lichtenstein), on the 
other hand, resemble the smaller branches of trees 
with their spray ; and so minutely detailed is this mi- 
micry that the very snags and knobs, as Kirby and 
Spence remark, are accurately imitated. Those who 
are curious in such matters may readily find similar 
instances in some of our native caterpillars, by no 
means uncommon. In the latter part of summer, for 
example, by beating the bushes of a hawthorn hedge 
while an umbrella is held under, the caterpillar of the 
brimstone moth {Rumia Crat(E^at(i? Duponchet) 
may often be found, appearing, as it stalks along the 


 



Wfilkinff-leaf insert {Vhyllia fu^mta., Dumerii.), mag;nified. 

whalebones ol’ the umbrella, like a self-moving withered 
branch, the skin being wrinkled and furrowed like 
the bark, while the bulgings of the rings and a notched 
protuberance on the back add much to the resem- 
blance. 



Transfonnations of the hrimstonc moth (Rumia Cratgf>gafa), 
a, the caterpillar in its resting position. 6, the moth, c, the eggs. 
d, the young caterpillar. 

We found during last summer, on an elder, at Lee, 
several specimens of a similar walking-branch cater- 
pillar, that of llie swallow-tail moth {Oiirapivryx 
Samhucaria, Leach), not so conmion as the preced- 
ing, but equally remarkable ; for the ringed bulgings 
on the body are precisely like those of an elder branch, 
while the longitudinal stripes arc like the cracks in 
the bark^. It is likewise worthy of remark that these 
caterpillars, when not feeding, rest upon their pro- 
legs, with their body stretched out at various angles 
from the branch, their only support being a thread of 




silk, from which the head haTifii;s, in order that they may 
always be ready to drop down in safety, by extending 
this thread, on the sndclen ajiproach of enemies. As 
they feed chiefly in the nie^ht, they may be seen con- 
tiiiuins; in this stiff atid singular attitude for a whole 
day without movinpr, “ So that, doubtless,’’ say 
Kirby and Spence, “ the sparrows and other birds 
are frequently deceived by this manoeuvre, and thus 
baulked of their prey. Rosel’s p^ardener, mistakinp^ 
one of these caterpillars for a dead twip^, started back 
in great alarm, when upon attcm})ting to break it he 
found it was a liviiiff animal*.’’ We are well 



Caterpillars of the swallow-tailed moth, resembling the twigs on 
which they rest. 

* Intr, ii, 236 3 Jlosel; lusecten; i. v. 27. 






persuaded, however, that neither a bird, an ichneumon, 
nor a naturalist, would have been apt to fall into such 
a mistake. 

This family of caterpillars (Geometridoi, Stephens) 
have been by collectors not inappropriately named 
surveyors, loopers, and geometers, from their peculiar 
manner of inovinf^, which may readily be conceived 
by those who have not seen them, when we mention 
that at the commencement of each step their bodies 
present a pretty exact tip^ure of the Greek letter Q. 
In this position, laying hold with their hinder prolep^s, 
they stretch out their lieads to the full extent of their 
body, layinpf hold with their fore legs while they bring 
forward their body into the O form again. 

Such are among the most prominent examples ad- 
duced by naturalists who advocate the theory that 
these resemblances to inanimate objects are intended 
to conceal insects from their enemies*. We shall 
now gi\e a lew instances which have suggested 
themselves as no less coiToborative of the opposite 
doctrine. The first which occurs to us is one of the 
surveyor caterpillars, whose movements we have just 
been describing, found very commonly on the cur- 
rant, the gooseberry, and the black thorn, and called 
by collectors the magpie (^Abraxas (h'ossulariata, 
Leach). This caterpillar is very conspicuous from 
being spotted, somewhat like the ])erfect insect, with 
black upon a bright yellow ground, and contrasting 
strongly both with the deep green of the leaves upon 
which it feeds, and the dark-coloured bark upon 
which it usually rests. The caterpillars of the water 
betony moth {CuevUia Scrophiflarifp, Hubncr), 
and of the burnet moth {Eudidia G/yphica, Och- 
SENHEIM.), are similarly marked with deep black on a 
yellow ground, which must render them \ery conspi- 
cuous. The caterpillars of the small tortoise-shell 
* See Kirby and Spence, Intr. ii. 219-237. 




butterfly (Vanessa Urticce)^ are, we admit, very simi- 
lar in colour to the nettles they are found on ; but we 
cannot, surely, say the same of the dark black ones 
of the peacock (V. Io)y also nettle feeders, particu- 
larly as these are not only larg^e, but keep top;ether in 
numerous companies ; which also applies to the cater- 
pillar of the Camberwell beauty (V. Antiopa)^ as 
well as to the conspicuous caterpillar of the buff tip 
(Pij^rera bvccphala^ Ochsenh.), so very destructive 
in certain years to beeches, oaks, limes, filberts, and 
other trees Some of those just mentioned, indeed, 
are provided, as vve shall afterwards see, with better 
means of defence than their colours ; but if peculiar 
colours be ^iven by nature for the purpose of conceal- 
ment, as in the instance of the caterpillars of the 
small tortoise-shell, why are these studded with thorns 
in the same way as the conspicuous caterpillars of the 
peacock and the Camberwell beauty ? In this, as 
in many other instances, the theory evidently proves 
too much. 

To the examples which we have here p;iven of 
conspicuous caterpillars, we could easily add some 
hundreds more ; but thinking these sufficient, we 
may be permitted, by way of farther illustration, to 
allude to the instances remarkable in perfect insects. 
Kirby and Spence mention a different kind of imita- 
tion of form and colour, which they think “ affords 
beautiful instance of the wisdom of Providence in 
adapting means to their end.’* One of those two- 
winged flies (Volucella'y Geoffroi), which bear a 
considerable resemblance to humble bees, lives during 
the larva state in the hives of the latter; and it is 
inferred, that as the flies “ strikingly resemble those 
bees in shape, clothing, and colour, the Author of 
nature has provided that they may enter these nests 

* All these caterpillars are figured in this volume : see contents 
pf the engravings, 





and deposit their e^^s undiscovered;” for “did 
they venture themselves amongst the humble bees in 
a less kindred form, their lives would probably pay 
the forfeit of their presumption 



A two-winged fly ( Volucella j)lumata, Mkigkv). 

We do not conceive that any dissent from this 
doctrine has a tendency to weaken or destroy the 
smallest link in the beautiful chain of causes which 
leads us upwards to the admirable superintendence 
of the p:reat First Cause; and, therefore, we state 
that, in the case before us, our justly eminent authors 
surely forgot, that bees wtII know strange individuals 
of their own species, and beat them off when they 
attempt to plunder their hives; and these robber bees 
are not only like but identical with tbeiiiselves in 
shape, clothing, and colour. Indeed, when it is con- 
sidered that in the designs of Providence, as e\idenced 
by the economy of nature, the nourishment of the 
stronger species of carnivorous animals is as much 
regarded as the means which the weaker have of 
escaping from them, such general rules cannot be but 
of very limited application. 

Darwin, as we formerly mentioned, maintained 
that butterflies resembled the coloins of the flowers 
which they frequent; and many of them may be 
granted to do so without leading us to adopt the 
Intr. ii. 223. 




inference of the theorists that they are thus coloured 
to conceal them from their enemies. Were this, in- 
deed, the true cause of these colours, the butterflies 
ou^ht to remain stationary on the flowers, without 
sportinc^ about in the sunshine, as if on purpose to 
show the birds and the drap^on flies that they are 
living insects, and not inanimate flowers. In the 
instance of many moths which fly by twilight, this is 
no less obvious; for instead of being of dark dusky 
colours, which would have effectually concealed them 
from the bats and the fern-owls, they are frequently 
white, or at least of such light colours as show well in 
the dusk. There is but small need of enumerating 
examples of this, and it will be suflicient to name the 
white-ghost moth (Hepialus Hnmvli)^ which may 
often be seen, where hops or burdocks grow, hovering 
on the wing for hours together; the satin moth 
(Lev coma Salicis, Stephens), which floats about the 
air like an animated flake of snow-white down, or 
flits conspicuously from tree to tree among the higher 
branches of a row of })oplars; and the magpie moth 
(^Abraxas grossi/lariaia), usually abundant in every 
garden, though liberally sprinkled with black spots, 
has enough of white to distinguish it in its heavy, 
lumbering flight, even when the last rays of the 
twilight are disappearing. That these are not strained 
examples of insects so coloured as to be conspicuous 
to their enemies, will farther be obvious from a com- 
mon contrivance of schoolboys to catch bats. They 
chalk the seed-heads of burdocks in such a manner 
as to resemble the white moths alluded to; and 
throwing these up where a bat is observed flying, he 
fails not to dart upon the supposed moth, and the 
bur adhering to his wings, brings him down to pay 
the penalty of his mistake*. 

If wc leave colouring out of consideration, and 
^ J. R. 





look merely at the forms of caterpillars, we think it 
must be apparent to the most indifferent observer, 
that, though they have often a rather ungainly, 
repulsive, and sometimes a formidable aspect, yet 
this renders them in numerous instances very conspi- 
cuo\is. The forms, also, we may remark, which ay^pear 
disagreeable or threatening to us, may not seem so 
to birds and ichneumons which make them their prey. 
One of the most singular of these forms of caterpil- 
lars occurs in that of the pebble moth {Notodonta 
Ziczac^ Stephens^), the form being such that it is 
not easy for one unacquainted with it to tell which is 
the head and which the tail. The puss {Centra Vi- 
7iula) is another whose form and attitudes cannot fail 
to attract the notice of the most indifferent observer. 
Dr. Shaw, in his Zoological Lectures, quotes from a 
country newspaper a most ludicrous account of this 
“ monster,’* as it is there called, having a head like a 
lion, jaws like a shark, a horn like a unicorn, and 
two tremendous stings in its tail. The gross exag- 
geration of this description will be obvious from the 
following accurate figures ; yet how formidable soever 
this caterpillar may appear to us (even Rosel, the 
entomologist, was afraid of it at first), we know that 
no one is more readily pounced upon by at least two 
syiecies of ichneumons, which seem, therefore, not to 
be afraid to deposit their eggs in its body t ; and it is 
no doubt often made prey of by birds, at least in its 
young state ; for when full grown, being about as thick 
as a man’s thumb, it may prove rather too bulky a 
morsel J. 

Our readers may like to see, by way of contrast 
to the exaggerated account quoted by Shaw, the 
excellent description of the puss caterpillar given 
by old Isaac Walton. “ The very colours of caterpil- 

? Figured in Insect Architecture, p. 172. 
t See ibid., pp, 195 and 325-6. J J. R. 






lars/’ says he, as one has observed, are ele^nt and 
beautiiuL I shall, for a taste of the rest, describe 
one of them; which I will, some time the next 
month, shew you feedinpf on a willow tree ; and you 
shall find him punctually to answer this very descrip* 
tion: his lips and mouth somewhat yellow; his eyes 






black as jet; his forehead purple; his feet and hinder 
parts g;reen; his tail two-forked and black; the 
whole body stained with a kind of red spots, which 
run alon^ the neck and shoulder-blade, not unlike the 
form of St. Andrew’s cross, or the letter X made thus 
crosswise, and a white line drawn down his back to 
his tail; all which add much beauty to his whole 
body. And it is to me observable, that at a fixed a^e 
this caterpillar g’ives over to eat, and towards winter 
comes to be covered over with a strant^e shell or crust, 
called an aurdia^\ and so lives a kind of dead life 
without eating all the winter. And as others of 
sevenil kinds turn to be several kinds of flies and 
vermin the spring following; so this caterpillar then 
turns to be a painted butterflyt.” 

Another caterpillar, called by collectors the lob- 
ster {Siauropus FagU Germar.), which is rarely 
met with, has not only very long legs, a circum- 
stance uncommon among caterpillars, hut assumes 
an attitude similar to the puss just figured, though 
the shape of the creature renders it much more 
strange. This caterpillar was known to Mouffet, 
and is indifferently figured by him, as well as by 



Lobster caterpillar (^Stauropus Fagi, Gehmab.) 

* See Insect Architecture, p. 194. 
f Walton’s Angler, chap, v 



Albin and Donovan; but Rosel’s figure, which we 
here copy, is more accurate. 

Looking at these very singular forms of caterpil- 
lars, we could not anticipate, without previous know- 
ledge, that all of them produced insects of nearly the 
same shape, though ditfering considerably in size 
and colour. It is not a little remarkable, also, 
that the colours of caterpillars, with a few excep- 
tions, such as the magpie moth {Abraxaa grossi/la- 
riata), are very different indeed from the insects into 
which they are transformed. Plain and inconspicu- 
ous caterpillars will sometimes give splendidly co- 
loured insects, as in the case of the Vanessa butter- 
flies ; while finely marked caterpillars will give 
plain insects, as the one whose gaudy stripes of sky- 
blue, scarlet, and black, has obtained it the appro- 
priate name of the lackey (Clisiocampa nenslria, 
Curtis), though the moth is of a dull brownish 
yellow. Two of our finest native insects, however, 
the swallow-tailed butterfly and the emperor-moth, 
are produced from beautifully coloured caterpillars ; 
but neither the colours nor the markings of these 
have any resemblance. 

A more extraordinary difference, however, between 
the first and the last stage of insect life occurs in the 
case of those insects whose larvae are acpiatic. One 
of our commonest families of insects, the gnats (Cw- 
licida\ Latr.), whose ingenious mode ol’ constructing 
a floating raft of eggs we have already described, 
affords a very strikingillustration of our position. When 
these eggs are hatched, the grubs appear ; but they 
do not, as is said by older naturalists, “ make them- 
selves little lodgments of glue, which they fasten to 
some solid body at the very bottom of the water, unless 
they meet with chalk, whose softness permits them to 
burrow into its substance^.” On the contrary, they 
* Spectacle de la Nature, i. 123. 






usually swim near the surface of the water, with their 
heads downwards and their tails in the air, for a pur- 
pose which will presently be obvious. These grubs, 
called scvrrs in the north, may be met with in abun- 
dance during the summer in ditches or in water- 
butts^, appearing like minute, whitish, semi-trans- 
parent shrimps or fishes, when their bodies are a little 
bent, as they frequently are. 



Aquatic grubs of gnats in a glass vessel of water. 

The organs for breathing, which are very remark- 
able in the grub of the gnat, are not situated along the 
sides, as in caterpillars, but in the tail. A tube for 
the purj)ose of respiration goes off from the terminal 
ring of the body at an angle. Its main buoys, also, 
arc its tail and its breathing-tube, both of which end in 
a sort of funnel, composed of hairs, in form of a star, 
anointed with oil, so as to repel water. Sw^ammer- 
dam remarks that when, by handling it too roughly, 
this oil is removed, the grub “ can no longer suspend 
itself on the surface of the water ; 1 have, on these 
occasions, observed it put its tail in its mouth, and 
afterwards draw it back, as a water-fowl will draw 
its feathers through its bill to prepare them for resist- 

* See Insect Art^hitecturei p, 20^ bottom figure^ on the right. 





mg water* ” The air, which enters through several 
dpenings in the breathing-tube, passes onwards to 
two lateral wind-pipes, very similar to those of cater- 
pillars, as above described. When it wishes to descend 
lo the bottom of the water, it folds up the hairs of the 
funnel, but by means of its oil retains at their ends a 
globule of air ; and when it wishes to re-ascend, it 
has only to open its hair funnel again. 



Larva of the common ^nat (Culex pipiensf ) floatinjf in water, 
fO'eatly magnified, a a, the body and head of the larva, h, the 
respiratory apparatus, situated in the tail, c, the larva, not mag- 
nified. 

A similar but more elegant apparatus for the same 
purpose occurs in the water-grub of a two-winged 
fly, which Goedart called the chameleon fly (Straiio^ 
9nys cham(pleoiu Meigen), because he found it could 
live nine months without food. The terminal ring of 
this grub is extended to a considerable length, and 
fringed at the end with a beautiful star-like funnel of 
thirty feathered hairs. Whether the creature oils these, 
* Biblia^ Naturec^ i. I54« 



like the g^rub of the gnat, we know not, but they 
perfectly repel water; and at the point where the 
insect hangs suspended, a small dimple may be 
observed on the surface. When it wishes to dive to 
the bottom, it has the power of bringing the ends of 
the hairs together, without diminishing the capacity of 
the funnel below ; and a globule of air, for the pur- 
pose of breathing under water, is thus enclosed and 
carried down, appearing, as Swammerdam says, like 
a brilliant pearl or polished silver. “ As for my 
part,” he adds, “ I dare boldly affirm, that the incom- 
prehensible greatness of the Deity manifests itself in 
these mysterious operations in a particular manner, 
and affords us an opportunity of examining, as it 
were, with our senses, the divine nature*.'* 



Buoy-like structure in tlie tail of a water-gjub of a two-wlnged fly 
i^Stratiumys Chamcelcon). 

* Swammerdam, part ii* 




The preceding’ grub may occasionally be found in 
shallow ditches, and about the edges of ponds, in 
summer ; but a remarkable larva, with a very dif- 
ferent apparatus for breathing, is much more common 
in similar situations, and also in the open drains from 
dunghills, &c. The latter is the maggot of a two- 
winged, bee-like fly (Helophibis pendulus, Meigen), 
and from its shape is appropriately termed rat^ tailed 
by Reaumur. The tail is the part of the grub which 
most merits attention, being formed somewhat after 
the telescopic model of the ovipositor of the breeze flies*. 



Telescopir-tiiiled water larvae. «, a i^lass vessel of water con- 
tiininjf the larvae, natural size, ft, inaffnjfied view of the tail, 
with The breathing-tube partially contracted, c, a still more ea. 
larged view of the tail. 

^ See Insect Architecture^ p, 403. 





but consisting only of two tubes, the outer one serv- 
ing as a sheath, within which the inner one can be 
retracted at pleasure. Both of these are composed of 
fibrous rings ; and are so very extensile, that Reaumur 
has seen them pushed out to twelve times the length 
of the body of the maggot. The contrivance by which 
the inner tube is pushed out is no less simple than 
ingenious. It is furnished at the base with two 
flexible pipes, coiled up, when it is sheathed, into 
several folds, and communicating with the double 
wind-])ipe {Trachea) in the body. When it wishes 
to extend this breathing- tube, therefore, it inflates, by 
means of air from the wind-pipe, the flexible pipes, 
and in this way pushes them outward, and with them 
the breathing- tube, to the extent required. The 
breathing-tube itself is very slender, but terminates 
similarly to those of the grub of the chameleon fly, in 
five bristles. This breathing apparatus is admirably 
adapted to the economy of these maggots ; as from 
their seeking their food amongst ooze and mud, they 
would often be exposed to suffocation, which their 
extensile tube effectually prevents. 




Water worms {Nats), a a half-concealfd in the sand, 
b b b, their sand-tubes exposed. 




It may not be improper to guard our younger 
readers against mistaking for these telescopic-tailed 
larv ae, an animal, found in the same situations, which 
has a considerable general resemblance to them, 
though it is not even an insect, but a water-worm 
(iVais),upon which Bonnet made numerous curious ex- 
periments. The nais may he easily known by its being 
reddish, while the maggot is of a dirty white colour. 

It ai)pears to be the nais^ or some similar fresh- 
water worm, which medical men, unacquainted with 
natural history, have supposed to get into the human 
stomach through the medium ol‘ water, as we shall 
presently notice. 

A no less singular structure for respiration than that 
just described, occurs in the aquatic larvae of the 
dragon-flies (Lihellulidfr, Leach), which difler so 
remarkably from the perfect insects in the beauty of 
colour and elegance of jbrrn that has procured for 
them the gallant appellation of damsels (demoiselles) 
in France. This title agrees as badly with their 
habits as the popular English name of horse-sthigers, 
since they have no apparatus for stinging; “and so 
far,” says Reaumur, “ from seeking an innocent nutri- 
ment ill the pulp of fruits, or the nectar of flowers, 
they are more like amazons than damsels, hovering 
in the air only to pounce upon other insects, which 
they crush with their powerful mandibles. Should 
they quit the margin of a pond or the banks of a 
rivulet, where they may be seen hawking about in 
multitudes, it is only to pursue and seize the moth or 
the butterfly, that has fled for shelter to the bushes.” 

Though these larvae are furnished with six feet, 
they not only move very little, but do not use them 
for walking so much as for capturing their prey. 
Their motion is effected by a very peculiar method. 
When one of these larvae is procured from the bottom 
of a pond or ttie pool of a brook, let it be put into a large 



 

saucer with water, with some of the dead leaves or sticks 
it previously employed as a covering ; these will soon 
be seen floating towards the tail, and afterwards re- 
pelled, as a floating feather will be by a stick of sealing- 
wax, or a bit of amber, when electrically excited. When 
the insect has been kept out of the water for a short 
time, the desire, or necessity, of respiration is increased, 
and when again put into the water, the pumping is 
repeated with unusual force and frequency. If it be 
held in the hand, head downwards, and some drops 
of water be let fall on its tail, it instantly sucks it in, 
and the dimensions of its body become visibly aug- 
mented ; blit it collapses again when the water is ex- 
pelled, which is effected by the same appamtus. 

While in the water, if a solution of cochineal, saf- 
fron, indigo, or any other coloured fluid, be let down, 
with great care, by means of a glass tube, just over 
the tail of the insect, it will soon be seen to eject a 
stream of the coloured solution to the distance of 
several inches. Or the same may be seen by remov- 
ing it suddenly out of a coloured fluid into limpid 
water ; when the coloured jet stream will be still more 
cons])icuous. The most extraordinary circumstance 
respecting this jet is, that it jiropels the creature 
through the water in coiisecpience of its being resisted 
by the stationary mass of the fluid behind it, and a 
contrary current being thence produced by this singu- 
lar ])uniping. As the insect, between every stroke of 
the internal piston, is obliged to draw in a fresh sup- 
ply of water, an interval consequently occurs between 
the strokes, during which it will sometimes elevate its 
tail above water and squirt out a small stream like 
that from a little syringe. 

This wonderful apparatus serves several purposes; 
for, besides aiding the insect to move, the reverberatory 
current brings small water insects within its reach : 
it is also it would appear, partly appropriated to 




respiration, like the g;ills of fish, thons^h there are 
several other spiracles in other parts of the body com- 
municating with the large convoluted windpipes. 
The anal apparatus is surrounded with five hard, 
moveable, triangular pieces, all fringed with hairs, 
which it can open or shut at pleasure. The largest 
of these pieces is placed above, while the two smallest 
stand at the sides, and two of the middle size below. 
When they are shut close they form a blunt cone 



a, grub of a dragon fly ; h ft, tho body laid open and magnified, 
to show the windpipes ; c, the ]minping appaiatus shut ; d, the 
same open ; £?, head of the insect. 


It may. not be out of place to take notice here of 
another singular structure in the same species of lar- 
vae, which is probably unmatched in the insect world. 
In the larvae of most insects the under-lip is small 
and inconspicuous, but in those of the dragon-flies, 

* De Geer, ii, 066; and Reaumur; vi. 393, &c. 





“ it is,” to follow the excellent description of Kirby 
and Spence, “by far the largest organ of the mouth, 
which, when closed, it entirely conceals, and it not 
only retains but actually seizes the animal’s prey, by 
means of a very singular pair of jaws with which it is 
furnished. Conceive your under-lip (to have recourse, 
like Reaumur on another occasion, to such a compa- 
rison) to be horny instead of fleshy, and to be elon- 
gated perpendicularly downwards, so as to wrap over 
your chin, and extend to its bottom, — that this elonga- 
tion is there expanded into a triangular convex plate, 
attached to it by a joint, so as to bend upwards 
again and fold over the face as high as the nose, con- 
cealing not only the chin and the first-mentioned 
elongation, but the mouth and part of the cheeks : 
conceive, moreover, that to the end of this last-men 
tioned ])late are fixed two other convex ones, so broad 
as to cover the whole nose and temples, — that these can 
open at pleasure transxersely like a pair of jaws, so as 
to ex])ose the nose and mouth, and that their inner 
edges where they meet are cut into numerous sharj) 
teeth, or spines, or armed with one or more long 
shaip claws ; — you will then have as accurate an 
idea as my powers of description can give of the 
strange conformation of tlie under-lip in the larvae of 
Libdlulina, which conceals the mouth and face pre- 
cisely as I have supposed a similar construction of 
your lip would do yours. You will, probably, admit 
that your own visage would present an appearance 
not very engaging while concealed by such a mask ; 
but it would strike still more awe into the spectators, 
were they to see you first open the two upper jaw 
plates, which would project from each temple like the 
blinders of a horse ; and next, having, by means of 
the joint at your chin, let down the whole apparatus, 
and uncovered your face, employ them in seizing any 





food thiLt presented itself, and conveying it to your 
mouth. Yet this procedure is that adopted by the 
larvae of the dragon-fly provided with this strange 
organ. While it is at rest, it applies close to and 
covers the face. When the insects would make use 
of it, they unfold it like an arm, catch the prey at 
which they aim by means of the mondibuliform plates, 
and then partly refold it so as to hold the prey to the 
mouth in a convenient position for the operation of the 
two pairs of jaws with which they are provided. R(;au- 
mur once found one of them thus holding and de- 
vouring a large tadpole ; a sufficient proof that Swam- 
merdam w^as greatly deceived in imagining earth to be 
the food of animals so tremendously armed and fitted 
for carnivorous purposes. In the larvae of Libellula, 
Fabr., it is so exactly resembling a mask, that if en- 
tomologists ever went to masquerades, they could not 
more effectually relieve the insipidity of such amuse- 




The mask of the drag;on*fly icrub, in four different states of 
opening and shutting. 


ments and attract the attention of the demoiselles than 
by appearing at the supper table with a mask of this 
construction, and serving themselves by its assistance. 
It would be difficult, to be sure, by mechanism, to 




supply the place of the muscles with which in the in- 
sect it is amply provided; but Merlin, or his suc- 
cessor, has surmounted greater obstacles^/’ 

The larva) of the dragon-fly do not, however, 
trust to this mask alone for surprising their prey, but 
steal upon it, as De Geer observes, as a cat does 
upon a bird, very slowly, and as if they counted their 
steps ; and then, by suddenly unmasking, seize it by 
surprise: so artful are they that insects, and even 
small fishes, find it difficult to elude their attacks f. 

The larva of a very singular insect {Reduviua per- 
sonatifs, Fabr.), which preys upon the bed bug 
(Cwicx ledulariufi)y not being furnished with a mask, 
is at the pains to construct one, composed of dust, 
particles of sand, fragments of wool or silk, and simi- 
lar matter, which makes it assume so very grotesciue a 
figure, that the animal would at first be taken for one 
of the ugliest spiders. Its awkward motions add not 
a little to the effect of its odd appearance. It can, in- 
deed, if it so chooses, move with considerable speed; 
but for the purj)oses of successful hunting, it endea- 
vours to assume the aspect of an inanimate substance, 
and hitches along in the most leisurely manner possi- 
ble. It only moves one leg at a time, and having set 
one foot forward, it pauses a little before it brings up 
the contiguous one, proceeding in the same way witli 
its other legs. It is no less carefully cautious in 
moving its antennas striking, as it were, first with 
one, and then, after a short pause, with the other. 
By means of a camel’s hair pencil, or a feather, it is 
easy to unmask the insect, for, when touched, it 
usually abandons its covering. 

* In trod, to Ent. iii. 12G. 


t De Geer, ii, 6/4. 




Growth, Moulting, Strength, Defence, and Hybernation of Larvap, 


From the facts beiiipf commonly known, we are not 
surprised, that an ostrich, nine feet hi|i’h and 150 lbs. 
weiii^ht, should be ])roduced from an eji^p^ about the 
size of a cocoa-nut, or that “a G;min of mustard-seed 
— the least of all seeds — when it is «;rown,” should 
become “a tree (Phytolacca dioica?),m that the 
birds of the air come and lodo;e in the branches 
thereof*.” But when similar facts are recorded by 
natumlists respecting* insects, general readers are apt 
to wonder, because they are less familiar with these 
details, than with the economy of trees springing from 
seeds and birds being produced from eggs. When we 
repeat, after Lyonnet, that the caterpillar of the goat- 
moth (Cossus ligniperda, Fabr.) becomes 72,000 times 
heavier than when newly batched t, we do not state 
anything more striking and admirable than that an 
embryo of small dimensions should become an ele- 
phant, or that an acorn should produce a lofty and 
magnificent oak. The facts respecting the growth of 
insects have an adventitious interest, because, in con- 
sequence of the minuteness of the objects to which 
they relate, they are less familiar to popular observa- 
tion. In the instance of the silk-worm, the progress 
of growth has been accurately ascertained by scientific 
cultivators. It appears that a single caterpillar, 
weighing when first hatched only the hundredth part 
of a grain, consumes in thirty days above an ounce of 
leaves, — that is to say, it devours in vegetable sub- 

* See Irby and Mangle’s Travels, letter v. 

f Traite Anat. de la Chenille, p, 11. 


 


stance about 60,000 times its primitive weight. In 
warmer climates, silk-worms consume a rather less 
quantity of leaves, because these are perhaps more 
nutritive ; but, in that case, the silk produced is not 
so delicate and fine. The following statements are 
the result of experiments made by Count Daiidolo ; — 

Progressive increase of silk-worms in weight. 

GRAINS. 


A hundred worms just hatched weigh about 

After the first moulting  

After the second moulting 

After the third moulting  

After the fourth moulting 

On attaining their greatest size and weight 


They have, therefore, in thirty days increased  
times their primitive weight. 


Progressive increase of silk-worms in length. 


A silk-worm just hatched measures about 



After the first moulting 



After the second moulting . . 



After the third moulting 



After the fourth moulting 



After the fifth moulting it may reach 




The length of the silk-worm, therefore, increases 
about forty times in twenty-eight days*. 

By recalling to memory the comparisons of the 
eggs of insects with the seeds of plants, and of cater- 
pillars with buds, which ought to be taken (if we 
may trust Swammerdam) literally rather than 
poetically, we shall arrive at more distinct notions of 
the manner in which the growth and changes of 
larvae are accomplished. The buds of plants are 
composed of successive leaves closely embosomed 
within each other’s foldings, the outer one being 
generally hard and corneous, from the exposure of 
its vessels to the colds of winter, while the inner 
? Count Dandolo on Silk-worms, p. 326, Eng, Trans, 






leaves, bein^ thence protected, remain soft and 
pulpy. But as soon as the inner leaves receive 
an accession of sap, which rises from the roots 
on the return of spring, their vessels swell 
and their nervures exj)and; while the outer leaf, from 
its vessels being' shrunk and partly obliterated, 
undergoes little change besides being pushed out 
and sometimes entirely thrown off by the growth of 
the inner leaves, which it had previously enclosed. 
It may be remarked, also, that this outer envelope of 
a bud is not united with the inner leaves by any 
interlacing of their substance or of their vessels, 
though ill some cases there is an adhesive gluten 
which partly binds them together ; but this is never 
so strong as to prevent the expansion of the leaves. 
On comparing one of the bud envelopes thus thrown 
off, we can scarcely persuade ourselves that so small 
a covering could ever have contained the large 
spreading leaves which have burst from them. 

A caterpillar con’esponds in several circumstances 
with the leaf * bud. The outer skin encloses a 
succession of several other skins, each becoming more 
delicate, soft, and indistinct than the one exterior to 
it, but gradually, like the expanding leaves, growing 
more substantial and firm as it receives a supply of 
nutriment. The chief mechanical difference be- 
tween the leaves folded up in the bud and the suc- 
cessive caterpillars enveloped within the skin of one 
newly hatched, is that the leaves in the bud receive 
all their nourishment through their foot-stalks from 
the root of the tree, whereas the caterpillar is nour- 
ished from within by the food digested in its stomach. 
The superfluous nourishment, usually in considerable 
quantity, and called the fat of the caterpillar, appears 
to lie between the successive skins, in a similar way 
to the adhesive gluten in the leaf bud. But as the 
first inner skin expands and increases in consistence^ 





the fat which lies between it and the outer skin 
seems to be absorbed into the body of the cater- 
pillar, and of course swellinp^ it out; while its abstrac- 
tion from the interior of the outer skin renders this 
much more dry, separates it from the inner skin, 
and disposes it to harden and shrivel. 

The absoq)tion of the fat also produces the re- 
markable consequence of gorginj:^ all the channels of 
nutrition, so that there is no lonp;er any demand 
upon the stomach for fresh supplies of food; and 
hun«-er (which wc imagine is caused either by the 
want of the accustomed pressure of food on the 
terminal nerves in the stomach, or of the irritation of 
the absorbents when they are left empty) is no 
longer felt. The caterpillar accordingly ceases to 
eat, and having no incentive to action remains motion- 
less. The outer skin, in the meanwhile, being 
deprived of its internal moisture by the absorption of 
the fat, goes on to harden and shrink, while all the 
internal organs become enlarged by the nutritive fat. 
The expansion, therefore, of the body of the cater- 
pillar on the one hand, and the shrinking of the old 
skin on the other, produce a mutual struggle, which, 
from the continued operation of the causes, must, it 
is obvious, be soon brought to a termination. 

The skin, from losing its internal moisture, loses 
also a portion of its colour, and becomes obscure 
and dull ; and the caterpillar, from being girt and 
squeezed by its pressure, begins to turn and twist 
itself in various directions, to rid itself if possible of 
the inconvenience. By continuing these movements, 
the creature succeeds at length in rending the old 
skin at its weakest part, which is usually on the 
back, just behind the head ; and in a lew minutes, 
using its body as a wedge, it may be seen issuing 
through the breach* The old skin is thus abandoned 
* E^aumur^ Mem. i. 185. 



 


like a worn shirt ; and the caterpillar appears in an 
entire new dress, the tints of which are fresher and 
brifi^hter, and the colours and markings often con- 
siderably different from the former. The insect, 
also, in consequence of the quantity of fat which has 
gone to augment its several parts, becomes all at 
once so much enlarged in size, that we can with diffi- 
culty conceive how it could have been contained in 
the old skin, out of which it has just crept. The 
cast skin is frequently so very perfect that it might 
almost be supposed to be the caterpillar itself, par- 
ticularly in those which are hairy, as this contributes 
to conceal the shrivelling. 

That the above account of the process of casting the 
skin is correct, appears both from the careful dissections 
which have been made by Swammerdam, Lyonnet, 
and Ramdohr, and also from the diseases incident 
to caterpillars from deficiency of food or of pure air. 
It is a circumstance of common occurrence to those 
who are in the habit of breeding insects, that when 
they are not supplied with a sufficient quantity of 
food, their bodies do not increase enough in thick- 
ness to rupture the old skin ; yet this becomes in due 
time hard and shrivelled from the absorption of the 
fat, though the insect, from its inability to break 
through, remains imprisoned. It might be sup- 
posed, that if plenty of food were at this moment 
supplied, it would subsequently acquire sufficient bulk 
and strength to rupture and escape from the old skin ; 
but this is impossible, as we have repeatedly found 
to our great disappointment. In the instance of 
the caterpillar of the moth, called by collectors the 
glory of Kent (Endromis versicolora, Stephens), 
which we found on a lime-tree at Lee, and were 
anxious to rear, fresh food was neglected to be 
given to it a short time before its third moult; and 
from that time it refused to eat, and soon died. By 





minute examination we found that it was impossible 
for it to eat, as all its organs were in a state of 
forward preparation for throwing off their exterior 
coat, — the old skin, in fact, covering them as a glove 
does the hand, and the new head lying distinctly 
farther back than the old. Neither the old man- 
dibles therefore, which were become dry and stiff* 
nor the new ones, which were encased in these, 
could bite the leaves ; and even if this had been 
accomplished, the entrance to the gullet was ob- 
structed by the shrivelling of the old skin there, 
and deglutition could not have taken place. The 
j)Oor caterpillar was in consequence starved to death 
in the midst of abundance of food, which it could 
neither chew nor swallow. Had it been skilfully 
assisted (as it was not) to get rid of the encum- 
brance of its old skin, we doubt not that it might 
ultimately have recovered^. Ileaumur mentions the 
very singular circumstance of a caterpillar of the 
six-spot burnet moth {Aiithrocera Filipendiiltpy 
Stephens) liaving actually, before its last moult, bit 
off portions of its old skin, which it first raised up 
and afterwards detached and tossed away. He did 
not, however, ascertain whether this was an 
accidental manoeuvre, or the usual process of this 
species of caterpillar t ; though the first, we think, is 
the more probable. 

The disorder called the Reds by the breeders of silk- 
worms, shows itself in red-coloured stains and blotches 
upon the skin ; while the caterpillars seem cramped, 
stupified, and suffocated, their rings dry up, and they 
look exactly like mummies. Count Dandolo refers this 
and most other diseases of silk- worms to cliemical 
agency. The great quantity of vegetable food 
devoured by caterpillars must be liable during hot 
weather to fermentation, if it be not digested 
* J.ll. t Reaumur, Mem. ii. 75. 




soon after it is swallowed, — a process which often 
terminates in the production of an acid; and as 
acids have a tendency to redden vegetable colours, 
the red blotches are plausibly ascribed to that 
cause. This conjecture, which originated with 
Count Dandolo, has been proved to be the fact by 
Professor Bnignatelli ; who made the very unexpected 
discovery that the red matter contains uric acid 
combined with ammonia, and consequently that the 
disorder is similar in its proximate cause to what is 
called the red gravel {Lithia renalis Goon) in 
man. This acid, then, from its excess in diseased 
caterpillars, impedes the process of nutrition, and 
prevents the animal from acquiring sufficient 
strength to throw off the old skin when the time for 
this arrives. 

It ap])ears, also, from the exi)eriments of Count 
Dandolo, that though caterpillars can live longer in 
air deprived of oxygen, or otherwise contaminated, 
than warm-blooded animals, yet they do not thrive, 
and are very liable to diseases, when they have not 
access to fresh air. In other words, the food which 
has been digested cannot without oxygen be con- 
verted into the fluid analogous to blood ; and in such 
cases, as we have repeatedly witnessed, instead of 
being appropriated to nourishment, it is thrown into 
the intestines, producing diarrhoea, or scour, as it is 
termed by the cultivators of the silk-worm. In this 
case the inner skin never acquires sufficient consist- 
ence, nor can the old one ever become dry enough to 
be cast. 

One of the most singular circumstances respecting 
the moult of caterpillars, is the manner in which the 
hairs are disposed in the new skin before moulting. 
These are not, like the feet and other organs, sheathed 
in the hairs of the old skin, but smoothly folded 
down in separate tufts; and if the old skin be 





removed a short time before it would be naturally 
cast, these tufts may be seen in a moist state, very 
similar to small wetted camel’ s-hair pencils lying 






close to the inner skin, — those on the fore part of the 
bo(fy laid towards the head, and fi’om the fourth rin^ 
backwards in a contrary direction. 

Swammerdam, Reaumur, and other naturalists, 
repeatedly tried the experiment of cutting off the 
hair from caterpillars about to moult, without in the 
least affecting; the hairs on the new skin ; but when a 
foot or any other member is accidentally mutilated, it 
is also wanting in the moulted caterpillar, facts 
which stronfl^ly corroborate the details we have given 
above. 

It is a still more singular circumstance, ascer- 
tained by Swammerdam, De Geer, Lyonnet, and 
Bonnet, that caterpillars and grubs not only cast 
their external skins, but also that which lines their 
breathing-tubes and intestines. “ Some days,” says 
Bonnet, “before the change, the caterpillar voids 
along with its excrements the membrane which in- 
vests the interior of its stomach and intestines. I 
have also remarked, that during the moult, packets of 
the tracheal vessels may be seen attached to the cast 
skin, and thrown off along with it.” De Geer has 
distinctly seen white fibres proceeding from the inte- 
rior spiracles of a butterfly remain attached to the 
pupa-case. He conjectures that these fibres consist 
of the delicate membrane which lines the wind-pipes ; 
and that they are moidted like the lining of the sto- 
mach of a lobster, or of a caterpillar. Lyonnet, in 
some measure, confirms this conjecture*. 

In his admirable description of the rhinoceros- 
beetle {Orycics jiasicoimis^ , Swammerdam says of 
the grub : “ Nothing in all nature is, in my opinion, a 
more wonderful sight, than the change of skin in 
these and other the like grubs. This matter, there- 
fore, deserves the greatest consideration, and is wor- 
thy to be called a specimen of Nature’s miracles. For 
? Bonnet, CEuvres, vol, \iii, pp.303>311. 





it is not the external skin only that these ^bs cast, 
like ser]:>ents ; but the throat and a part of the sto- 
mach, and even the inward surface of tlie great gut, 
change their skin at the same time. Yet this is not 
the whole of these wonders ; for at the same time 
some hundreds of breathing-pipes within the body of 
the grub cast also each its delicate and tender skin. 
These several skins are afterwards collected into 
eighteen thicker, and, as it were, compounded ropes, 
nine on each side of the body, which, when the skin 
is cast, slip gently and by degrees from within the 
body through the eighteen apertures or orifices of the 
tubes before described, having their tops or ends 
directed upwards towards the head. Two other 
branches, also, of the breathing-pi])es, that are 
smaller and have no point of respiration, cast a skin 
likewise. If any one separates the cast little ropes or 
congeries of breathing-pipes with a fine needle, he 



Exuvia and pulmonary vessels of the rhinoeeros beetle (Ori/ctes 
nnsivurnis^. A, magnified view of a pulmonary braiirli and 
vesicle; a «, pulmonary branch, composed of a membranous 
fcheath and cartilaginous rings; //, vesicle. B, laiwa; c c, nine 
reddish breathing-holes. C, exuvia, or cast skin of the larv^; 
dd ddf shins of the pulmonary tubes* 





will very distinctly see their several branches and 
ramifications, and also their rino^ed structure^/’ 

The caterpillars of moths and butterflies G;enerally 
cast their skins five times ; but some cast them seven 
and even ten times, as in the case, accordinp; to 
Cuvier, of the ^reat tio:er-moth {Arctia Caja, Ste- 
phens). By the breeders of silk-worms this natural 
process is ranked among their maladies ; and not alto- 
gether without reason, as it frequently proves fatal, 
from causes to which we have already alluded. 
For several hours, often for a whole day, after cast- 
ing the skin, the caterpillar continues sluggish and 
moves little ; and as the vessels are still replete with 
the fat previously absorbed, there is no stimulus for 
it to eat. But as soon as this supply is exhausted, 
it commences again to eat voraciously, in order to 
supply another store of fat for its succeeding moult. 

The moulting of caterpillars, it may be remarked, 
bears but a slight resemblance to the casting of 
the feathers in birds, and the hair in quadrupeds. 
Birds generally cast their feathers once, and many 
twice, a-year, namely, in autumn and in spring t ; 
and quadrupeds in a similar way cast their hair. But 
in both these cases the process is gradual, and 
resembles that of shedding the milk-teeth when the 
jaw enlarges. All of these changes, however, pro- 
duce considerable derangements in the animals ; and 
they are seldom accomplished without disordering 
health, and sometimes endangering life. The great 
difference between the changes in insects and the 
other classes of animals evidently arises from the 
difference of their internal structure. It must be 
obvious to all, for example, that the human body 
wears. As old age advances the bones waste away 
and become smaller, the muscles and skin shrink and 

* Swammerdam, Bib. Nat. yol. i. p. 135. 

f Temrainck, Manuel d’Omithol. Intr. 





grow dry and shrivelled, and the stature grows shorter 
and more diminutive. Even in youth similar changes 
are in progress, a system of absorbent vessels being 
provided for removing worn materials from all parts 
of the body, and carrying at least one portion of these 
along with the blood into the lungs, whence it goes 
off in minute particles with the breath. No similar 
process of removing worn materials has, so far as we 
know, been discovered in caterpillars; and it is, in- 
deed, improbable, as the successive changes of the 
skin accomplish all that is wanted in this respect. That 
the worn materials, however, of the cast skins are 
not altogether useless, appears from the singular 
circumstance of the new-clothed caterpillar often 
devouring them, as that of the hawthorn-butterfly 
(Pieris Craimgi, Stephens) does the shell of the 
egg it has Just been hatched from^. It may be 
remarked, that it is chiefly the larger caterpillars of 
the puss and some of the hawk-moths which have 
been observed to eat ihcir skins ; none of the spi- 
nous or liairy ones seem to relish this strange sort of 
food. In the case of the warty-eft (Triton palustris, 
Elem.), wliich frequently casts its outer skin, we have 
observed that it is frequently eaten by the animal 
itselff. 

The grubs of some two-winged flics (Muscidee), 
and of wasps, bees, ants, and ichneumon flies, do 
not change their skins like the larvae we have just 
been considering ; but spiders and other allied tribes 
(Arachnidre), though they exhibit no other appear- 
ance of larvae, moult frequently during their growth. 
Goldsmith, amongst other curious mis-statements 
respecting a house-spider which he himself observed, 
asserts tliat it “lived three years, every year it 
changed its skin, and got a new set of legs: I 
have sometimes plucked off a limb, which grew 
* JBonnetj QSuvres, vol. ii. p, 18. *}• J. R. 






again in two or three days” The fact is, that 
few spiders live one year, much less three ; and all 
their changes of skin are gone through in a few 
months, and their acquiring new legs for mutilated 
ones takes some weeks. It is probable, indeed, that 
Goldsmith never thought of ascertaining the iden- 
tity of this spider ; if the whole story be not a mere 
fancy, like his assertion that spiders, “ when they 
walk upon such bodies as are ])erfectly smooth, as 
looking-glass or polished marble, squeeze a little 
sponge which grows near the extremity of their 
claws, and thus ditiusing a glutinous substance, 
adhere to the surface till they make a second 
step*.” Neither spiders nor any insects with 
which we are acquainted can thus produce gum 
from their feet to aid them in walking upon glass, 





thoii^li the house-fly can walk thus by causing a 
vacuum between its feet and the glass, as we shall 
subsetiuently describe at length. But the spider and 
all caterpillars can only climb in such cases by con- 
structing a ladder of ropes, as is represented by 
Rosel in the instance of the goat moth caterpillar. 

One of these caterpillars, which we possessed* * * § , 
made its escape in a manner much more unexpected, 
if not so ingenious, by means of its great muscular 
power, in which, it is not a little singular, that 
insects, as Baron Haller remarks, appear to excel in 
proportion to their dimiriutiveness. Of this we have 
a remarkable example in the common flea, which 
can draw seventy or eighty times its own weight t* 
The muscular strength of this agile creature enables 
it not only to resist the ordinary pressure of the 
fingers in our endeavours to crush it, but to take 
leaps to the distance of two hundred times its own 
length ; which will appear more surprising when we 
consider that a man, to equal the agility of a flea, 
should be able to leap between three and four hun- 
dred yards. The flea, however, is excelled in leap- 
ing by the cuckoo-spit frog-hopper {Teiligonia spu- 
maria, Olivier), which will sometimes leap two or 
three yards, that is, more than 250 times its own 
length 1; as if (to continue the comparison) a man 
of ordinary stature should vault through the air 
to the distance of a cjuarter of a mile. The minute 
observation by which such unexpected facts are dis- 
covered has in all ages been a fertile source of ridi- 
cule for the wits, from the time when Aristophanes 
in his Clouds introduced Socrates measuring the 
leap of a fiea§, up to Peter Pindar’s lampoon on 

* See Insect Architecture, p. 189. 

Haller, Physiol., vol. ix. p. 2. 

X De Geer, Mem., vol. iii. p. 178. 

§ Aristophanes, /S. 






Sir Joseph Banks and the emperor-butterfly. To 
all such flippant wit we have merely to retort the 
question of the Abbe de la Pluche, “ if the Deity 
thought insects worthy of his divine skill in form- 
ing them, ought we to consider them beneath our 
notice* ?” 

MoulFet, in his Theatre of Insectsf, mentions that 
an English mechanic, named Mark, to shew his skill, 
constructed a chain of gold as long as his finger, 
which, together with a lock and key, were dragged 
along by a flea ; and he had heard of another flea 
which could draw a golden chariot, to which it was 
harnessed. Bingley tells us that Mr. Boverich, a 
watchmaker in the Strand, exhibited some years ago 
a little ivory chaise with four wheels, and all its 
proper apparatus, and the figure of a man sitting on 
the box, all of which were drawn by a single flea. 
The same mechanic afterwards constructed a minute 
landau, which opened and shut by springs, with 
the figures of six horses harnessed to it, and of a 
coachman on the box, a dog between his legs, four 
persons inside, two footmen behind it, and a postilion 
riding on one of the fore horses, which were all 
easily dragged along by a single flea | . Gold- 
smith remarks upon these displays of pulician 
strength, that the feats of Samson would not, to a 
community of fleas, appear to be at all miraculous §. 
Eatreille tells us a no less marvellous story of 
another flea, which dragged a silver cannon twenty- 
four times its own weight, mounted on wheels, and 
did not manifest any alarm when this was charged 
with gunpowder and fired olf ||. Professor Bradley, 
of Cambridge, also mentions a remarkable instance 
of insect strength in a stag-beetle {Lucanus Cervus) 

Spectacle de la Nature, i. 3. f Page 275. 

J Auimal Biography, iii. 468. § Animated Nature, iv. 178. 

II Nouv. Diet. d'Hist. Nat. xxviii. 249. 






which he saw carrying a wand a foot and a half long, 
and half an inch thick, and even flying with it to the 
distance of several yards 

It has been remarked, with reference to these facts 
of comparative size and strength, that a cock-chafer 
is six times stronger than a horse; and Linnaeus 
observes, that if an elephant were as strong in 
proportion as a stag-beetle, it would be able to 
tear up rocks and level mountains. The muscular 
power of fish, however, seems to bear a near compa- 
rison with that of insects. “ I have seen,” says Sir 
Gilbert Blane, “ the sword of a sword-fish sticking 
in a plank which it had penetrated from side to side ; 
and when it is considered that the animal was then 
moving through a medium even a thousand times 
more dense than that through which a bird cleaves 
its course at different heights of the atmosphere, and 
that this was performed in the same direction with 
the ship, what a conception do we form of this dis- 
play of muscular strength It should, however, 
be observed, that the muscular power of the sword- 
fish is principally shewn in the rate of swimming, by 
which the animal overtakes the ships, and thus ac- 
quires the momentum which determines the force 
of the blow. We may understand the proximate 
cause of the strength of insects, when we look 
at the prodigious number of their muscles — the 
fleshy belts or ribbons by whose means all animal 
motions are performed. The number of these in- 
struments of motion in the human body is reckoned 
about 5*29 ; but in the caterpillar of the goat-moth, 
Lyonnet counted more than seven times as many : 
in the head, 228 ; in the body, 1647 ; and around 
the intestines, 2186 ; which, after deducting 20, 

* Bradley, Phil. Account, p. 184. 
f Sir Gilbert Blatie, Select Diss. p.281. 

R 







common to the head and gullet, gives a total of 
4061 * 

“ Any lady,"' says Kirby and Spence, “ fond of 
going to be tempted with an exhibition of fine lace, 
would experience an unexpected gratification could 
she be brought to examine the muscles of a caterpillar 
under the microscope; with wonder and delight she 
would survey the innumerable muscular threads that 
in various directions envelope the gullet, stomach, 
and lower intestines of one of those little animals — 
some rumiing longitudinally, others transversely, 
others crossing each other obliquely, so as to form 
a pattern of rhomboids or squares ; others, again, 
surrounding the intestine like so many rings, and 
almost all exhibiting the appearance of being woven, 
and resembling fine lace, — one pattern ornamenting 
one organ ; another, a second ; and another, a 
third 

We put the caterpillar of the goat-moth, to which we 
have before alluded, under a bellglass, which weighed 
nearly half a pound, and of course more than ten 
times the weight of the insect ; yet it raised it up 
with the utmost ease. We then })laced over the 
glass the largest book which we had at hand — 
“ Loudon’s Encyclopaedia of Gardening,” consisting 
of about IhOO j)ages of strong paper, and weighing 
four pounds ; but this did not succeed in preventing 
the escape of the animal, which raised the glass, 
though loaded with tiie book, nearly a hundred 
times its own weight, and made good its exitj. 
The multiplicity of its muscles above enumerated, 
two hundred and thirty-six of which arc situated in 
the legs alone, will enable us to understand how this 
extraordinary feat was performed. Even this power 
of muscle, however, would doubtless have been un- 

^ Lyonnet; Traite Anat. dela Chenille, pp. 108, 584. 
f Intr. iv. 18G. J J. K. 





availing in raising the loaded glass, except in con- 
nexion with tw^o favourable circumstances under 
which the experiment was performed, and which are 
necessary to be borne in mind to render the opera- 
tion perfectly credible : — 1st, that the wedge-like 
form of the caterpillar’s head, in connexion with the 
peculiar shape of the glass, enabled it to lift it ; — 
and 2d, that, one side of the glass resting on the 
table, the insect only bore half the weight of the glass 
and book. 



Caterpillar of Cossus efecaping from under a loaded glass. 

A peculiar toughness of external covering some- 
times supplies the place of this muscular power in 
caterpillars. A singular instance occurs in the 
history of a common downy two-winged fly, with 
grey shoulders and a brown abdomen, (Eristalis 
itiiaxy Fahr.). The grub, which is rat-tailed, lives 
in muddy pools, with the water of which it has some- 
times been taken up by paper-makers, and, though 
subjected to the immense pressure of their nia- 





cflinery, it has survived in a miraculous manner. 
Such is the account oripnally ^iveu by Linneeus *. 
A recent compiler, mistaking Kirby and Spence's very 
apt comparison of this ^rub to a London porter 
nicknamed Leather-coat- J ack, from his being able to 
suffer carriages to drive over him without receiving 
any injury, forthwith fancies the porter to be 
“ another insect, called leather-coat-jack,” which 
“will bear heavy carriage wheels to pass over 
it with impunity.” Since the grub in question 
is ratlier soft, it must be the tough texture of the 
skin which preserves it, as in the similar instance of 
the caterpillar (figured at page 1*25) of the privet 
hawk-moth {Sphinx Li^nstri^, which Bonnet 
squeezed under water till it was as flat and empty as 
the finger of a glove, yet within an hour it became 
plump and lively as if nothing had happened t* 

The instances, however, which we have just re- 
corded are peculiar rather than general, for cater- 
pillars are for the most part very easily bruised and 
otherwise injured. Tliose which are large and heavy, 
therefore, such as the cater])illars of the hawk-moths 
{Sphingidce), have the power of attaching themselves 
very firmly to the spots where they feed and rest by 
means of the numerous hooks of tlieir pro-legs J, so 
that it is almost impossible to detach them from the 
branch to which they are clinging ; and hence col- 
lectors always cut tfie branch itself. All of them 
have the means of breaking their fall by spinning a 
cable of silk, which they uniformly do when acci- 
dentally forced to quit their situation. Their method 
of climbing up this cable again is wmrthy of observa- 
tion, for it differs consiclerably from the maiimuvre 
of spiders, under the same circumstances ; as must be 

* Fauna Suecica, 1799. 
t Bonnet, (Euvres, vol. ii. p. 124. 
t See Insect Architecture , p. 307, right-hand figure. 

r3 



 

obvious when we consider that the spinneret of the 
spider is placed near its tail, while that of the cater- 
pillar is in its mouth. The spider accordingly drops 
head downwards*, but when it wishes to remount 
the line, it turns round, and raising its head, it 
stretches its long tri])le-clawed legs t up the line, 
which it bundles up while it ascends. The cater- 
pillar, on the other hand, having very short legs, with 
only one smooth claw J, would make but slow pro- 
gress in this manner, which it does not attempt ; but 
bending its head downwards till it can grasp the 



Methods used by spiders and caterpillars for ascending: their 
threads. The caterpillars are those of the einperor>nioth 
QSatumia Pavonid), 


* Insect Archit., page 336. f Ibid., p, 367# 
X Ibid., p. 307, left-hand figure. 


 


cord with its hinder pair of feet, and then raisins: its 
head to the perpendicular position again, it thus 
effects one step, and proceeds in the same manner 
till it reaches the top. 

Other caterpillars, when they are disturbed, employ 
a different method of breaking their fall without 
spinning a thread, taking advantage, for this purpose, 
of the long hairs which cover their body. Those 
who have seen a hedge-hog {Ermaceus Europeej/s'), 
when attacked by a dog, roll itself up into a prickly 
ball, will readily conceive the manoeuvre of the cater- 
pillars to which we allude, it being precisely similar. 







Should one of those hairy caterpillars, when feeding 
near the top of a plant, be disturbed or alarmed, it 
instantly coils itself up into a ball and drops among 
the grass. Here it is not only difficult to discover, 
but equally so to lay hold of it ; for the pliancy and 
smoothness of the hair causes it to slip through the 
fingers as readily almost as quicksilver. The grub 
of the museum heciXe {A nthrenus Miiseorum^ Fabr.), 
the pest of our cabinets, affords another example of 
the same circumstance, being covered with tufts of 
diverging hairs which cause it to glide through 
the fingers as if they had been oiled. The six long 
tufts at the tail, which it can erect at pleasure, are 
composed of hairs, which rise from a bulb of the 
form of a halberd, and are curiously jointed with 
cones through their whole extent. The bead wood- 
louse {Armadillo vulgaris, C'uvieh), though not 
furnished with hairs, rolls itself up into a round ball, 
trusting to the fine polish of its back for escape, and 
to its hardness for defence. “ One of our maid-ser- 
vants,’* says Swammerdam, “ once found a number 
of these wood-lice in the garden contracted into 
round balls, and thinking she had found a kind of 
coral beads, she began to put them one after another 
on a thread ; it soon happened that the little crea- 
tures, being obliged to throw off the mask, resumed 
their motions : on seeing which, she was so greatly 
astonished, that she flung down both them and the 
thread in great haste, crying out, and running 
away 

The hairs with which the caterpillars of some of 
our finest native butterflies are furnished, are some- 
what of the nature of bristles or thorns, being hard, 
inflexible, and sharply pointed. This is the case with 
the caterpillars of all the fan-winged butterflies 
{Vanessce), We have alluded to that of the pea- 
* Swammerdam, pt. i. p. 174. 






cock’s eye, which must be conspicuous to birds from 
its dark black colour, prettily dotted with white, aided 
besides by the gregarious habit of feeding in a 
colony of several dozens together; but if a thrush or 
a sparrow pounces upon one of them, the formidable 
spines must present an obstacle somewhat unex- 
pected, perhaps, to the making of a comfortable 
meal. The ass, indeed, seems to relish the piquant 
stimulus of the thorns or thistles, and sheep, goats, 
and deer will browse on the still sharper leaves of 
holly*; but we think none of our soft-billed birds 
would venture on a thorny caterpillar. Madame 
Merian says “that the spines of the caterpillar of 
Urania Leilas are as hard as iron wiret*” Abbot 
tells us that many American caterpillars sting like a 



VVilhei’ingj Cot. Arrangement. Note on Ilex aquifolium. 
f Merian, Inject. Surinam; xxix. 





nettle, and blister the skin when touched ; which is 
also partly exemplified in that of our own ^ipsey moth 
(Jlypogymna dispar) ^ the slender hairs of which 
irritate and inflame the skin. The spines, in some of 
the caterpillars alluded to, are like smooth thorns or 
prickles ; but on others, they are beset, or feathered 
with shorter spines. 

It is probably for some purpose of defence or con- 
cealment that the larvae of several insects form a sin- 
gular covering for themselves of their own excrements, 
which they pile up for that purpose upon their backs. 
This material, as Kirby has observed, is not always so 
offensive as might be supposed, being in some in- 
stances (Cassida maculata et Imatidium Leayamim) 
formed into fine branching filaments, like lichens or 
dried fucus^. Others, however, which Reaumur 
aptly terms Hottentots, do not appear quite so cleanly. 
One of these, rather uncommon, was observed, 
many years ago, by Vallisnieri, which he calls the 
cantharidis of the lily {Crioceris inerdi^era^ Leach), 
and may be found in May on Solomon’ s-seal, and 
other liliaceous plants, which it devours and renders 
unsightly. Under its singular canojiy, it has no 
resemblance to an insect, but looks like an oblong 
ball of chewed grass stuck on the lily. The beetle 
which is produced from the grub is of a fine brownish 
scarlet, and elegantly sculptured with minute dots. 
Another species, more abundant, similar in man- 
ners, and less than half the size of the preceding 
(C. cyandla. Panzer), is of a fine blue colour, with 
similar dottings. The grub of the green tortoise- 
beetle (Cassida equestris, Fabr.), usually found on 
burdocks, is furnished with a more ingenious me- 
chanism for this purpose, consisting of a fork in its 
tail, which it can depress or elevate, so as to carry its 
strange canopy higher or lower, at pleasure. Like 
? Linn, Trans, iii. lO. 






the two preceding insects, this grub is also most unex- 
pectedly transformed into a very pretty green beetle, 
of the form of a tortoise, the wing-cases of which 
project all round as a covering for the legs. 






A, Cassida eqiiestris. B, its jjrub magnified to shew its anal 
forks. C, the same with its canopy of excrements. 

The larva of the golden-eyed fly {Chrysopa perla, 
Leach), whose very singular eggs we formerly men- 
tioned, covers itself with the fragments of the aphides 
which it has devoured, — a moving sepulchre of dry 
bones 

A very familiar instance of this mode of defence 
occurs in the larva of the cuckoo-spit frog-hopper 
{Tettigoiiia spvmaria, Olivier), so frequently seen 
in Runimer on willows, rose-trees, lychnis, grass, and 
other plants. This creature is of an exceedingly soft 
structure ; and it is probably, therefore, as a protection 
from the sun, that it throws up all around it the little 
tuft of white froth, called, from a popular mistake, 
cuckco-s])it. The peifect insect is covered with hard 
wing-cases, of a brown colour, with a white spot and 
pale double band. 

It would appear that the hair, which we have de- 
scribed above as covering the bodies of some cater- 
pillars, is paitly intended by nature to defend them 
Ifoni cold during the winter. The truth of this 
? R^aumuF;^ hi, 380 &c. 







amounts almost to demonstration, from a circumstance 
discovered respecting* ants by the younger Huber. 
“ The larvae of some ants,” says he, “ pass the 
winter heaped up in the lowermost floor of their 
dwelling. I have found, at this period, very small 
larva? in the nests inhabited by the yellow ant {For- 
mica Jlavd), the field ant {F, ccespiium ?), and some 
other species. Those that are to pass the winter in 
this state are covered with hair, which is not the case 
in summer ; affording another proof of that Provi- 
dence at which naturalists are struck at every step^.” 
The same growth of a warmer clothing for the 
winter is well knowui to occur among quadrupeds, 
particularly those which inhabit the higher northern 
atitudes f. 

Upon the same principle, a number of the cater- 
pillars which are hatched late in autumn, and are 
destined to live over winter, are provided with a 
warm clothing of hair or down. This is the case 
even with most of those which construct for them- 

*** M. P. Huber on Ants, p. 82. 
f See MenagerieS; vol. i.; p. 50. 





selves a snu^ nest of silk, such as the caterpillars of 
the brown-tail moth (Porthesia auriflya), and those 
of the mallow butterfly (Hesperia malvm). But there 
are others which are provided with no extraneous 
coverin*^, farther than the occasional shelter they 
may obtain by crawling under withered leaves, the 
copings of w^alls, or the bend of a branch. Among 
these some are thickly covered with hair, of which 
we have an instance in the caterpillar of the great 
tiger moth (Arctia caja, Stephens), whose mode of 
rolling itself up into a ball we have already described ; 
but a more remarkable example occurs in the cater- 
pillar of the drinker moth (Odo/ieslUi potatoria^ 
Germar.), whose very feet are covered with fine 
shaggy down. It is this, no doubt, which preserves 
it from becoming torpid during winter; and as it 
feeds on grass, it can alw^ays procure food during 
the severest weather. When a fine sunny day chances 
to break in upon the gloom of winter, this pretty 
insect may be often seen stretched at its full length 
on a low twig, or the withered stem of a nettle, 
basking in the sunsliine with apparent delight. We 
kept one of them in our study during the winter of 
1827-8 ; and it continued to feed sparingly till Febru- 
ary, when, owing to neglect, it unfortunately died*. 

There are several other caterpillars, however, 
which live during the winter, in a no less exposed 
manner, without being provided with any covering of 
hair ; though some of these, we may remark, do not 
continue to feed, but become w^holly or partially tor- 
pid, such as the caterpillar of the magpie moth 
(Abraxas grossulariata). Of this species we have 
observed numbers, about as thick as a crow-quill, 
remaining in the same position for weeks together, and 
never moving, except when some very considerable 
change of temperature, either colder or hotter, took 
place. They do not seem to select the warmest places 
? J. R, 





within their choice, bein^ usually found on an exposed 
currant branch, or under the upper cross-bar of a 
paling*. We observed one, during several months of 
the winter of 1828-9, stationary under the lintel of a 
door, where a continual current of air must have ren- 
dered it exceedingly cold. We have endeavoured 
to rouse some of these from their semi-torpidity by 
keeping them in a warm room ; but though they 
would make a few lethargic and unwilling move- 
ments, none of them would eat, and the change 
always proved fatal*. 

We might be led from this instance to conclude 
that caterpillars, not covered with hair, become tor- 
pid during winter; but such general conclusions 



a, Young caterpillar of the drinher, 6, the same full grown, 
c, smooth caterpillar of the angle shades, (f, the moth of the 

tame. 

? J.R. 




from particular facts seldom accord with actual 
nature, and ought never to be indulged in by natural- 
ists who study accuracy. Another caterpillar, not 
uncommon in gardens, on the hollyhock and other 
plants, would at once disprove such an inference: 
we allude to that of the angle shades (Phlo^ophora 
7neticnlosa, Ochsrnheimeu). This caterpillar, which 
is exceedingly smooth, and is remarkable for chang- 
ing in its last moult from a clear green to a yellow- 
ish brown, we have found during the whole winter in 
the folds of the fresh leaves of hollyhocks, cabbage- 
lettuce, savoys, &c., quite lively, and feeding in open 
weather by no means sparingly. Its defence from 
cold may perhaps consist in a superabundant supply 
of fat, which we may infer that it possesses from the 
soft flabby aspect. It is this circumstance which seems 
to protect whales from the polar cold ; as well as 
bears during their torpidity. 

Some caterpillars seem to have no less power of 
resisting severe cold than eggs ; as authentic in- 
stances are recorded of their revival after being frozen 
stitf, — a circumstance also rej)orled of some serpents 
in North America Dr. Lister in this way revived 
caterpillars frozen so hard as to chink like stones 
when thrown into a glassf ; and Mr, Stickney ex- 
posed some grubs of a common crane-fly {Tipvla 
oleracea, Linn.) to a severe frost, till they were con- 
gealed into masses of ice, yet several of them sur- 
vived];. Reaumur, however, was unsuccessful in 
similar experiments on the gregarious moth of the 
fir {Cnethocampa Piiyocampa^ Stephens), so cele- 
brated among the ancients as a poison §; for none of 
them survived a cold of 2" below zero, Fahr., by 
which they were frozen to ice||. 

* John Hunter, Obs. on Anim.Econ. p. 99. 

Goedart, Ins>crt. p. 79. ] Kirby and Speme, Intr. ii. p.453. 

§ Pill). Hist. Nat. 38, 9. || Mem. ii. 





Voracity of Caterpillars, Grubs, and Maggots. 


Insects, in the early stag;c of their existence, may 
be compared to an Indian hunter, who issues from 
his hut, as they do from the cfrs;, with a keen 
appetite. As soon as he is successful in finding 
game, he gorges himself till he can eat no more, 
and then laying him down to sleep, only bestirs 
himself again to go through a similar process of 
gorging and sleeping; just so the larvie of insects 
doze away a day or more when casting their skins, 
and then make up for their long fast by eating with 
scarcely a pause. Professor Bradley calculates 
(though upon data somewhat questionable) that a 
pair of sparrows carry to their young about three 
thousand caterpillars in a week ^ ; but this is nothing 
when compared with the voracity of caterpillars. Of 
the latter we have more accurate calculations than that 
of Bradley, who multiplied the number of caterpillars 
which he observed taken in one hour by the hours of 
sunlight in a week. Redi ascertained by experiment 
that the maggot of the common blow-fly {Musca car- 
naria) becomes from 140 to 200 times heavier within 
twenty-four hours f ; and the culthators of silk- worms 
know the exact quantities of leaves which their broods 
devour. “ The result,^' .says Count Dandolo, “ of 
the most exact calculations is, tliat the quantity of 
leaves drawn from the tree employed for each ounce 
of eggs amounts to 1609 lbs. 8 oz., divided in the 
following manner — 

? Account of the Works of Nature. 

f Esperienze de Inselii, p. 23. 






First age . . 
Second age 
Third age . 
Fourth age 
Fiftli age . . 


Sorted leaves. Refuse. 

lbs. oz. lbs. oz. 
.60 18 
.. 18 0 3 0 

.. GO 0 9 0 

..180 0 27 0 

..1098 0 102 0 


Per ounce of eggs of sorted leaves . . . .lbs. 1 362 0 1 42 8 

Refuse 142 8 

Lost from the lea\es by evaporation, &c.. . 105 0 

1G09 8 


He adds to this curious table, that from the 1362 lbs. 
of sorted leaves 2 :iven to the caterpillars, it is neces- 
sary to deduct 155 lbs. 7 oz. 4 drs. of litter, consist- 
injr of fragments of uneaten leaves, stalks, fruit, &c., 
and consequently that they actually devour only 1206 
lbs. 4 oz. 4 drs. It is necessary also to mention that 
of this quantity 745 lbs. 8 oz. of diin^ are carried from 
the hurdles; and consequently there is only dijrested 
771 lbs. 7 oz. 4 drs. of pure leaves, which produce 
120 lbs. of silk cocoons, — cciviup: a loss by evaporation 
from the worms in and vapour of 406 lbs. 4 oz., 
nearly three parts of this loss occurring^ iji the six last 
days of the tilth age 'J'hese deductions, however, 
do not aliect the amount eaten by the caterpillars 
produced from 1 oz. of eggs, which is upwards of 
1200 lbs. A single silk-worm, as we before men- 
tioned, consumes within thirty days about 60,000 
times its primitive weight. 

When we take these facts into consideration, we 
need not be surprised at the extensive ravages com- 
mitted by other caterpillars, many of which are much 
larger than the silk-worm, and all of them produced 
in broods of considerable numbers. Mr. Stephens, 
in his valuable catalogue of British insects, a work of 


? Count Dandolo’s Art of rearing Silk-Worms, p. 322-24, 
Eng. Transl. 




very extraordinary accuracy, enumerates nearly 2000 
species of native moths and butterflies ; and as the 
females of these are for the most part very prolific, we 
have little reason to be surprised at the occasional 
extent of their depredations. The 2000 species just 
mentioned are, besides, not more than a fifth of our 
native insects, most of the gTu])s and maggots of 
which are exceedingly voracious and destructive. 

It appears to be indispensable for most insects to 
feed copiously during their larva state, in order to 
supply a store of nutriment for their subsequent 
changes ; for many of them eat nothing, and most of 
them little, after they have been transformed into pu- 
pae and perfect insects. What is no less wonderful, a 
corresponding change takes place in the internal 
formation of their organs of digestion. A cater- 
pillar will, as we have seen, devour in a month 
60,000 times its own weight of leaves, while the 
moth or the butterfly into which it is afterw^ards trans- 
formed may not sip a thousandth part of its weight 
of honey during its whole existence. Now, in the 
caterpillar, nature has provided a most capacious sto- 
mach, which, indeed, fills a very large portion of its 
body ; but in the butterfly the stomach is diminished 
to a thread. By a series of minute dissections, 
conducted with great .skill, Heroldt traced these 
changes, as they successively occur, from the cater- 
pillar to the butterfly. In the caterjnllar he found 
the gullet, the honey stomach, the true stomach, and 
the intestines capacious. Two dajs after its first 
change all these are visibly diminished, as well as the 
silk reservoirs, which, in a chrysalis eight days old, 
have wholly disappeared ; while the base of the gullet 
is dilated into a crop, and the stomach still more con- 
tracted into a spindle form. When near its change 
into the perfect insect the gullet is jjftill more drawn 
out, while the crop, still small, is n^w on one side of 





View of tbe npper side. 



A, B,C, The »8o- 
pliagus Hnd its ap* 
pendages. 

D, K, The sto- 
mach; — a pair of 
muscles wind spi- 
rally round it, and 
Ly their contraction 
squeeze the digested 
food into the intes- 
tines. 

K, F, The first 
large intestine. F, 

G, the second. G, 

H, the third. 

I, I, The six small 
intestines. 


View of the under side. 



Viscera of the Cossns. 







A, A, Caterpillar of Vanessa urticae mag^nifiecl. a — ft, the 
intestines of the same, a, the gullet, h h h b, pulmonary tubes, 
cc, ligament of the stomach, d rf (2d, transparent rings of the 
.atme. k f, small intestines. //, their origin, y gh/i^ their wind- 
ings. t ft, the rectum. 






the gullet ; and in the butterfly is enlarged into a 
honey stomach. 



Intestinal canals of the caterpillar, pnpa, and butterfly.i 

1. Caterpillar, a, the ttsophagiis. b, the stonmcb, e rf, the 

two large intestines. 

2. Pupa /mo days old. o, the oesophagus. the stomach, ccf, 

H e two large intestines. 

3. Pupa dajs old. o, dilation of the oesophagus, forming 

the crop or honvy^stomat //• 

4. rn])a iniuiediatcly before its transformation, o, the honey- 

sloiiiaeh become a lateral appendage ot the oesophagus. 6, 

tlie stomach, c d, the laige intestines. 

5. Butterfly, o, honey-stoinach. h, the digesting stomach, c'd, 
the large intestines, become very long. 

It is remarkable that in men of such extraordinary 
appetite as amounts to a di.sease {Bviimia, Cullen), 
the natural capacity of the stomach, which, accord- 
ing to Blumenbach, contains about three pints*, 
is very much enlarged. This was peculiarly the 
case with Tarare, an Italian juggler, who, from swal- 
lowing flints, whole baskets of fruit, &c., seems 
to have enlarged the capacity of his stomach so as 
to render his appetite insatiable. M. Tessicr, of the 
Infirmary at Versailles, where Tarare died of con- 
sumption, found on examination that his stomach 
? Blumenbach, Physiol., s. xxiii. 





was prodigiously distendfed*. The same must have 
been the case with the French prisoner at Liverpool, 
who, on the testimony of Dr. Cochrane, consumed, 
in one day, sixteen pounds of raw meat and tallow 
candles, besides five bottles of porter 

The mandibles of caterpillars, which do not act 
perpendicularly like the jaws of quadrupeds, but ho- 
rizontally, are for the most part very sharp and stron*^, 
bein^ of a hard, horny substance, and moved by 
powerful muscles. They are, fbr the most part, 
slightly bent in the form of a reaping-hook ; having 
the concavity indented with tooth-shaped projections, 
formed out of the substance of the jaw, and not socketed 
as the teeth of quadrupeds. These are made to meet 
like the blades of a pair of pincers ; and in some cases 
they both chop and grind the I'ood J. Besides these 
there is a pair of jaws (maxi Her) placed on each side 
of the middle portion of the under lip; and from their 
being of a softer substance they seem to be more for 
the purpose of retaining the food, than for mastication. 
This formidable apparatus for masticating {Trophi) 
is well ad jpted to supply the large demands of the 
capacious stomachs ot larva'; and when we consider 
that all of them are employed in eating at least for 
ten or twelve hours in the day, and a great number 
during the night, we need not wonder at their ex- 
tensive ravages upon the substances on which they 
feed. It may be interesting, however, to give a few 
examples of their destructiveness ; and w ith this v iew 
it will be convenient to consider them under the three 
popular names of caterpillars, grubs, and maggots. 

Caterpillars. 

The ravages of caterpillars are amongst the most 

* M. Percy in Rapport d'institute Nalionelle. 

T Med. and Phys. Journ,, iii.^ 209. X Cuvier, Anat, Coin., ili., 322. 






conspicuous of insect depredations, in consequence 
of their beinp^ committed upon the leaves of trees, 
bushes, and plants, which are often stripped as bare 
as in winter. E\en tlie smaller sorts of caterpillars 
become, from their multiplicity, sometimes as destruc- 
tive as those which are of considerable magnitude. 
During the summer of 1 827 we were told that an extra- 
ordinary bli^rjithiid suddenly destroyed the leaves of all 
the trees in Oak of Honour Wood, Kent. On going 
thither, we Ibund the report had been little exagge- 
rated ; for though it was “ in the leafy month of 
June,” there was scarcely a leaf to be seen on the 
oak-trees, which constitute the greater portion of the 
wood. But we were rather surprised when we dis- 
covered, on examination, that this extensive destruc- 
tion had been effected by one of the small solitary 
leaf-rollers (Tortrix I'iridana^ Haworth) ^ ; for one 
of this sort seldom consumes more than four or five 
leaves, ii* so much, during its existence. The num- 
ber, therefore, of these caterpillars must have been 
almost beyond conception ; and that of the moths, 
the previous year, must also have been very great: 
for the mother moth only lays from fifty to a hundred 
eggs, which are glued to an oak branch, and remain 
during the winter. It is remarkable that in this 
wood during the two following summers these cater- 
pillars did not abound t- 

Instances like this, however, from solitary species, 
are, we believe, less common than those of the ravages 
of gregarious caterpillars. In 1826, colonies of the 
buff-tip {Fygara byctphala, Ochsenheim.) were in 
some parts of the country very abundant. We re- 
marked them particularly at Harrow-on-the-Hill, and 
at Compton-Basset in Wiltshire. From their feeding 
in company, they strip a tree, branch after branch, 

* See figures of this caterpillar and its moth in “ Insect Archi- 
tecture,” pp. 162-3. t J* Ik 





scarcely leaving the fragment of a leaf, till a great 
portion of it is completely bare. Some of the magni- 
ficent beeches in Compton Park, from this cause, ap- 
peared with the one-half of their branches leafless 
and naked, while the other half was untouched. 
Besides the beech, these caterpillars feed on the oak, 
the lime, the hazel, the elm, and the willow. When 
newly hatched they may be readily discovered, from 
their singular manner of marshalling themselves, like 
a file of soldiers, on a single leaf, only eating it half 
through ; and in their more advanced stage, their 
gaudy stripes of yellow and black render them very 
conspicuous on the branches which they have nearly 
stripped bare. The cuckoo feeds as greedily upon 
them as they do on leaves , and may be seen early in 



Ravages of the bnflf-tip caterpillar {Pi/geera bucephala). fl, the 
fall'grovrn caterpillar, b, the moth, c c, a line of young cater* 
pillars, advancing along a leaf and devouring it half through as 
they march, d, the eggs. 




the morning perched in the midst of their colonies, 
and devouring them by dozens*. 

Those caterpillars which feed upon fruit-trees and 
hedge shrubs are still more likely to attract attention ; 
since, when any of these are abundant, it is scarcely 
possible to stir out of doors without observing them. 
Thus, in the suburbs of London, in the summer of 
1S29, not only the orchards and gardens, but every 
hedge, swarmed with the lackey caterpillars {Clisio- 
campa neustria)^ which are what naturalists term 
polypha^om feeders, that is, they do not confine them- 
selves to a particular sort of tree, but relish a great 
number. The hawthorn, the black thorn, and the 
oak, however, seem to be most to their taste ; while 
they are rare on the willow, and we have never ob- 
served them on the poplar, or the elder. 

Another of what may be appropriately termed 
the encamping caterpillars, of a much smaller size, 
and of a different genus, is the small ermine {Ypo- 
nomeuta padetla), which does not, besides, feed quite 
so indiscriminately ; but when the bird-cherry (Pru- 
nus padus), its peculiar food, is not to be had, it 
will put up with black thorn, phim-tree, hawthorn, 
and almost any sort of orchard fruit-tree. With re- 
spect to such caterpillars as feed on different plants, 
Reaumur and De Geer make the singular remark, 
that in most cases they would only eat the sort of 
plant upon which they were originally hatched f. 
We verified this, in the case of the caterpillar in ques- 
tion, upon two different nests which we took, in 1806, 
from the bird-cherry at Crawfordland, in Ayrshire. 
Upon bringing these to Kilmarnock, we could not 
readily supply them with the leaves of this tree ; and 
having then only a slight acquaintance with the ha- 
bits of' insects, and imagining they would eat any 
sort of leaf, we tried them with almost every thing 
* J. R. 1 1^® Geer, Mem. i. 3 1 9. 

T 






green in the vicinity of the town ; but they refused to 
touch any which we offered them. After they had 
fasted several days, we at length procured some fresh 
branches of the bird-cherry, with which they gorged 
themselves so that most of them died. Last sum- 
mer (1829) w e again tried a colony of these cater- 
pillars, found on a seedling plum-tree at Lee, in 
Kent, with black thorn, hawthorn, and many other 
leaves, and even with those of the bird-cherry; but 
they would touch nothing except the seedling plum, 
refusing the grafted varieties^. 



Encampment of the caterpillar of the small ermine (Yponomeuta 
padclla) on the Siberian crab. 

A circumstance not a little remarkable in so very 
nice a feeder is, that in some cases the mother moth 
will deposit her eggs upon trees not of indigenous 
growth, and not even of the same genus with her 


 

Rfiual favourites. Thus, in 1825, the cherry-apple, 
or Siberian crab (Pyrw.? y)r7^7z?yo/7*«, Willdenow), 
so commonly ^rown in the suburbs of London, 
swarmed with them. On a single tree at Islington, 
we counted above twenty nests, each of which would 
contain from fifty to a hundred caterpillars ; and 
though these do not grow thicker than a crow-quill, 
so many of them scarcely left a leaf undevoured, and, 
of course, the fruit, which shewed abundantly in 
spring, never came to maturity. The summer fol- 
lowing they were still more abundant on the haw- 
thorn hedges, particularly near the Thames, by Bat- 
tersea and Richmond. Since tlien we have only seen 
them sparingly ; and last summer we could only find 
the single nest upon which we tried the preceding 
experiment*. This present spring (1830) they have 
again appeared in millions on the hedges. 

R(^aumur says that in some years they were ex- 
ceedingly destructive to his a]>ple-trees, though they 
did not touch his pears, plums, or apricots f, which 
agrees precisely with our own remarks. We are well 
aware that there are several species of the small er- 
mines, all similar in manners, such as the one which 
feeds on the spindle-tree, {Euonymiis), and pro- 
duces the prettiest moth of the genus {Yponomeuta 
Euonymella) ; hut our preceding remarks all apply 
to one species. 

In 1829 we remarked a very extraordinary num- 
ber of webs of some similar caterpillar, of which we 
did not ascertain the species, on the willows in Hol- 
land and the Netherlands, from Amsterdam to 
Ostend. In some districts, particularly near Bruges 
and Rotterdam, the leaves were literally stripped 
from whole rows of trees ; while other rows, at no 
considerable distance, were entirely tree from their 
ravages. A foreign naturalist, quoted by Harris in 
* J. R. t Reaumur, Mem. ii. 198. 




his Aurelian, says, that the caterpillar of the Camber- 
well beauty {Vanessa Antiopa), which feeds grega- 
riously on the willow, sometimes defoliates the trees 
of a whole district in the Low Countries ; but the 
ravages observed by us were evidently made by the 
caterpillars of some small moth*. 

None of the preceding details, however, appear so 
striking as what is recorded of the brown-tail moth 
(Porthesia avriflva)^ by Mr. W. Curtis f, whose 
multitudinous colonies spread great alarm over the 
country in the summer of 1782. This alarm was much 
increased by the exaggeration and ignorant details 
which found their way into the newspapers. The ac- 
tual numbers of these caterpillars must have been im- 
mense, since Curtis says, “ in many of the parishes 
near London subscriptions have been opened, and 
the poor people employed to cut off the webs| at one 
shilling per bushel, which have been burnt under the 
inspection of the churcliwardens, overseers, or beadle 
of the parish : at the first onset of this business four- 
score bushels, as I was most credibly informed, were 
collected in one day in the parish of Clapham.” 

It is not, therefore, very much to be wondered at, 
that the ignorant, who are so j>rone to become the 
victim of groundless fears, should have taken serious 
alarm on having so unusual a phenomenon forced 
upon their attention. Some alarmists accordingly 
asserted that the caterpillars “ were the usual presage 
of the plague ; ” and others that they not only pre- 
saged it, but woidd actually cause it, for “ their 
numbers were great enough to render the air pesti- 
lential,’^ while, to add to the mischief, “ they would 
destroy every kind of vegetation, and starve the cattle 
in the fields.” “ Almost every one,” adds Curtis, 

* J. R. 

f Curtis, Hist, of Brown-iail Moth, 4to. London, 1782. 

J See Insect Architecture, page 330, for a figure of the nest. 





“ i^orant of their history, was under the ^atest 
apprehensions concerning them ; so that even prayers 
were offered up in some churches to deliver the 
country from the apprehended approaching cala- 
mity/’ 

It seems to have been either the same catei*pillar, or 
one very nearly allied to it, probably that of the 
golden-tail {PorthesiaChrysorrh(ea)^vjh\ch. in 1731-2, 
produced a similar alarm in France. Reaumur, on 
going from Paris to Tours, in September 1730, Ibund 
every oak, great and small, literally swarming with 
them, and their leaves parched and brown as if some 
burning wind had passed over them ; for when newly 
hatched, like the young bufl-tips, they only eat one 
of the membranes of* the leaf, and of course the other 
withers away. These infant legions, under the shelter 
of their warm nests*, survived the winter in such 
numbers, that they threatened the destruction not 
only of the fruit-trees, but of the h>rests, — every tree, 
as Reaumur says, being over-run with them. The 
Parliament of Paris thought that ravages so widely 
extended loudly called for their interference, and 
they accordingly issued an edict, to compel the people 
to uncaterpillar {decheniller) the trees ; which Reau- 
mur ridiculed as impracticable, at least in the forests. 
About the middle of May, .liowever, ^ succession of 
cold rains produced so much mortality among the 
caterpillars, that the people were ha]>pily released 
from the edict ; for it soon became difficult to find a 
single individual of the species t- In the same way the 
cold rains, during the summer of 1 829, seem to have 
nearly annihilated the lackeys, which in the early part 
of the summer, swarmed on every hedge around 
London +. The ignorance displayed in France at the 
time in question, was not inferior to that recorded by 

* See Insect Architecture, p.331, for a figure. 

t Reaumur, ii.p. 137. - J Insect Architecture, p. 329. 




Curtis; for the French journalists ffravely asserted 
that part of the caterpillars were produced by spiders ; 
and that these spiders, and not the caterpillars, con- 
structed the webs of the slime of snails, which they 
were said to have been seen collecting for the pur- 
pose ! “ Verily,^’ exclaims Reaumur, “ there is 

more ignorance in our age than one might believe.” 

It is justly remarked by Curtis, that the caterpillar of 
the brown-tail moth is not so limited a feeder as some, 
nor so indiscriminate as others ; but that it always 
confines itself to trees or shrubs, and is never found 
on herbaceous plants, whose low growth would seldom 
supply a suitable foundation for its web. Hence the 
absurdity of supposing it would attack the herbage 
of the field, and produce a famine among cattle. 
Curtis says, it is found on the “ hawthorn most plen- 
tifully, oak the same, elm very plentifully, most fruit- 
trees the same, black thorn plentifully, rose-trees the 
same, bramble the same, on the willow and poplar 
scarce. None have been noticed on the elder, walnut, 
ash, fir, or herbaceous plants. With respect to fruit- 
trees the injuries they sustain are most serious, as, in 
destroying the blossoms as yet in the bud, they also 
destroy the fruit in embryo ; the owners of orchards, 
therefore, have great reason to be alarmed.” 

The suddrti appearance of great numbers of these 
caterpillars in particular years, and their scarcity in 
others, is in some degree explained by a fact stated 
by Mr. Salisbury. “ A gentleman of Chelsea,” he 
says, “ has informed me that he once took a nest 
of moths and bred them; that some of the eggs 
came the first year, some the second, and others of 
the same nest did not hatch till the third season *.” 
We reared, during 1829, several nests both of 
the brown-tails and of the golden-tails, and a num- 
ber of the females deposited their eggs in our nurse- 
? Salisbury, Hints on Orchards, p. 53, 





caffes ; but, contrary to the experiment just quoted, 
all of these were hatched during the same autumn*. 
The diflerence of temperature and moisture in par- 
ticular seasons may produce this diversity. 

An alarm, similar to those we have recorded, was 
produced in France in 1735 by the green striped 
caterpillars of a moth very common in Britain, called 
by collectors, from a mark on its upper wings, the Y, or 
more properly the 7 moth (Plvsia Gamma^ Ochs.). 
Though ranked in some classifications amongst the 
nocturnal moths, it flies chiefly by day, and maybe seen 
in Battersea-fields, or other moist meadows, flitting 
from herb to herb and flower to flower, in short and 
low flights; for it seldom soars higher than the tallest 
grass-stem, or the crimson flower-heads of the knap- 
weed, upon whose honey it sometimes regales, re- 
maining on the wing all the while it is sipping it. 
During the cold rainy summer of 1829 it was almost 
the only moth which appeared plentiful f. At least 
two broods seem to be produced during the season; 
which may account for its being found from May till 
the setting-in of the winter frosts. 

Notwithstanding it being so plentiful, however, 
we have not heard of its having ever been so destruc- 
tive here as in France, where, as usual, the most 
improbable causes were assigned for- its increase. 
“ In some places,” says Reaumur, “ they assured 
me they had seen an old soldier throw the spell ; and 
in other places an ugly and mischievous old woman 
had wrought all the evil J.” These supposed super- 
natural agents, however, must have been either very 
numerous or very active to fill, not only the gardens, 
but every field, with legions of those caterpillars, 
which devoured almost every green thing, and left 
only the stalksas monuments of their devastation. The 
alarm proceeded farther, for it began to be whispered 
? J. R. t R* t Reaumur, ii. 336. 


 


that they were poisonous ; and many were in conse- 
quence afraid to touch soups or salads. Reaumur 
thought it incumbent on him to refute this notion at 
some length; but we cannot accept his doctrine as 
very palatable, when he tells us that few dishes of soup 
or salad arc ever prepared without containing cater- 
pillars, and yet all the world are not poisoned there- 
by, any more than by eating oysters or viper broth. 
*He endeavoured also to account by calculation for 
their excess, ii'om the data of the female moth lay- 
ing about four hundred eggs. Now, if there were 
only twenty caterpillars distributed in a garden, and 
all lived through the winter, and became moths in 
the succeeding May, the eggs laid by these, if all 
fertile, would produce 800,000, a number much more 
than sufficient to efiect great destruction^. Did 
*ot Providence, therefore, put causes in operation to 



Transformations of the y moth (^Plusia Gamrud). a, the egg, 
rreatly magnified, on a morsel of leaf. 6, the egg on a leaf, na^ 
Ural size, c, the larva, d, the pupa, e, the moth. 


? R6aumur^ ii. 337. 


 

keep them in due bounds, the caterpillars of this 
moth alone, leaving out of consideration the 2000 
other British species, would soon destroy more than 
half of our vegetation. 

The caterpillar just mentioned, amongst other pot- 
herbs attacks coleworts and cabbage ; and may 
sometimes be found there along with another, not 
uncommon, but seldom very destructive, called by col- 
lectors the burnished brass (Plvsia chrysitis), which 
differs little from the caterpillar of the 7 moth, except 
in being of a brighter green. Another, called the old 
gentlewoman {Mamestra brassic<B, Treitsche), is so 
destructive to cabbages in Germany, that the gar- 
deners gather whole baskets full and bury them ; 
but as ROsel remarks, they might as well endeavour 
to kill a crab by covering it with sea-water, for it 
is natural to them to burrow under ground when 
they change into chrysalides We have seen this 
caterpillar, as well as that of the brown-eye {Mames- 
ira oleraced), do considerable damage in Wiltshire, 
but nothing to what is reported of it in Germany. 

The leaves of cabbages, cauliflower, brocoli, cole- 
worts, and turnips, are frequently devoured to a 
more considerable extent by the sub- gregarious cater- 
pillars of the white butterflies (Po/itia brassicee, P. 
7iapi, &c.) From the great multiplicity of the but- 
terflies, indeed, and from there being two broods in 
the year, we have reason to Monder that their 
ravages are not more extensive. But we have re- 
marked, that they seem more partial to wild than 
cultivated plants ; for we have seen, near Islington, 
the oleraceous weeds, such as rape {Brassica vopvs)^ 
over-run with them in the very same fields with cul- 
tivated cabbages, which were not touched t ; so that 
the caterpillars are not always so injurious as we 
might at first suppose, since in this case they tend to 
* Rbsel, liiseckten, i. iv, 170, f J K. 




keep down the weeds, while the birds and the 
ichneumon flies keep them in check by making prey 
of them. 

The gregarious caterpillars of an allied species, 
called the black-veined white butterfly (Pieri$ 
Crateegi^ Stephens), is in some seasons and districts 
no less destructive to orchards and hawthorn hedges 
than the preceding ones are to the kitchen -garden. 
Salisbury, who wrote at Chelsea in 1815, says it 
“ commits great destruction every spring, and not 
only to the apple-trees, but other kinds of fruits*/^ 
Mr. Stephens, writing in 1827, says, “ in June 1810, 
I saw it in plenty at Coombe Wood, and in the fol- 
lowing year I captured several at Muswell-hill, since 
which time I have not seen any at large t*’’ Mr. 
Haworth also says, “ it has not of late years been 
seen at Chelsea, where it formerly abounded.’’ We 
have never met with it at all. According to Salisbury 
the female butterfly lays her eggs near the extremity 
of an old rather than a young branch, and covers 
them with a coating of gluten, which is both imper- 
vious to moisture and impenetrable (this we doubt) 
to the bills of birds. “ In this state,” he adds, “ we 
have instances of their remaining without losing 
their vitality for several years, until a favourable oppor- 
tunity of their being brought into existence arrives*.” 
The caterpillars, which are at first black and hairy, 
live in common in a silken tent. They become sub- 
sequently striped with reddish brown, and disperse 
over the trees. This caterpillar and its butterfly 
are figured in a subsequent page. 

Our gooseberry and red-currant bushes are very 
frequently despoiled of their leaves, both by the 
speckled caterpillar of the magpie moth {Abraxas 
grossiilarlata), and by what Reaumur terms the 

* Hints on Orchards, p. 56. f Illustrations,!. Hauslellata, 27. 

J Hints on Orchards, p. 57. 






pseudo-caterpillars of one of the saw-flies (Nematus 
Ribesii, Stephens). The latter insect has a flat 
yellow body and four pellucid wings, the two outer 
ones marked with brown on the edge. In April it issues 
from the pupa, which has lain under ground from 
the preceding September. The female of the goose- 
berry saw-fly does not, like some of the family, cut a 
groove in the branch to deposit her eggs ; — “ of 
what use, then,” asks Reaumur, “ is her ovipositor 
saw*?” In order to satisfy himself on this point, he 
introduced a pair of the flies under a bell-glass along 
with a branch bent from a red-currant bush, that he 
might watch the process. The female immediately 
perambulated the leaves in search of a place suited to 
her purpose, and passing under a leaf began to lay, 



a a a, Saw-6y of the ffooseberry (Nemafu<i Pffccsii, Stkhhkvs). 
J, its effffs on the nerviireg of a leaf, d d, the caterpillars eating, 
c, one rolled up. /, one extended. 


? See Insect Architecture, chap.vii. fora description of-thir 
curious instrument. 





depositing six eggs within a quarter of an hour. 
Each time she placed herself as if she wished to cut 
into the leaf with her saw; but, upon taking out 
the leaf, the eggs appeared rather projecting than 
lodged in its substance. They adhered so firmly, 
however, that they could not be detached without 
crushing them. He could not discover any groove * ; 
but we think it likely that a minute cut is made in 
the exterior membrane of the leaf, the edges of which 
grasp and hold firm the part of the egg which is 
thrust into it by the insect. Be this as it may, the 
caterpillars are hatched in two or three weeks ; and 
they feed in company till after midsummer, frequently 
stripping both the leaves and fruit of an extensive 
plantation. The caterpillar has six legs and sixteen 
prolegs, and is of a green colour mixed with yellow, 
and covered with minute black dots raised like sha- 
green. In its last skin it loses the black dots and 
becomes smooth and yellowish white. The Caledo- 
nian Horticultural Society have published a number 
of plans for destroying these caterpillars. 

An allied species of saw-fly {Nematus CapretB, 
Stephens) frequently becomes extensively destruc- 
tive to several species of willow, sallow, and osier. 
It is so like that of the gooseberry and that of the 
willow {Nematus saucin') , which is not British, that it 
has been confounded with these by Pabricius, Stew- 
art, Gmelin, and other authors. In the summer of 
1828, we observed a considerable group of young 
standards of the golden osier {Salix vitellina)^ in a 
nursery at Lewisham, rendered quite leafless by these 
caterpillars ; which, when feeding, throw themselves 
into singular postures by holding only with their 
fore feet. The fly appears in spring, and places its 
eggs in a round patch on the back of the leaf, and 
not along the nervures, like the gooseberry saw fly. 

Reaumur^ V, 125. 





During the three last summers, we also remarked 
that the alders (^Alnus glutinosd) along the banks of 
the Ravensbourne, in Kent, were extensively stripped 
of their leaves by a saw-fly caterpillar, very like the 
preceding, but of a larger size*. It appears to be 
the same as one figured by RtSaumurt {Selandria 
Alni? Stephens). 



a, Nematus caprcepy on the otiieF ; J>, Selandria alni ? on the alder. 

Another slimy caterpillar of a saw-fly, allied to 
that of the cherry {Tenthredo Cerasi), is called the 
slug worm in North America, where it has increased 

* J. R. f Reaumur; vol. v.; pi. 11; fig. 1, 2* 

u 


 


SO numerously as to threaten the entire destruction of 
fruit trees, including the cherry, plum, pear, and 
quince. Where they are numerous, the air becomes 
loaded with a disagreeable and sickly effluvium. The 
history of this orchard pest has been admirably 
written by Professor Peck*. 

When a turnip crop has been fortunate enough to 
escape the ravages committed on it in the seed leaf 
by a small jumping beetle (Haltica nemorum, IiiLi- 
ger), and by a root weevil (Nedyus contr actus ^ 
Stephens), a no less formidable depredator some- 
times appears in a caterpillar belonging to the saw- 
fly family (Tenthredividfr), and apparently of the 
genus Athalia. An instance is recorded hj Mar- 
shall, in the Philosophical Transactions, of many 
thousand acres having had to be ploughed up on 
account of the devastations caused by these insects. 
It is, he informs us, the general opinion in Norfolk, 
that they come from over-sea ; and a farmer averred 
that he saw them arrive in clouds so as to darken 
the air, while the fishermen reported that they had 
repeatedly witnessed flights of them pass over their 
heads when they were at a distance from land. On 
the beech and the cliffs, indeed, they lay in heaps, 
so that they might have been taken up with shovels ; 
while three miles inland they crowded together like 
a swarm of bees t. 

We have little doubt, however, that these details 
are put in an inverse order ; as frequently occurs in 
histories of the proceedings of insects by those but 
little acquainted with their habits. Insects of this 
family, indeed, seldom fly far, and could not at all 
events cross the sea, unless it might be a narrow bay 
or inlet ; and if they had, we ought to have heard of 
their departure as well as their arrival, since their 

* Nat. Hist, of the SlugWorio, Boston, 1799. 
t Phil. Trans, vol. Ixxiii. p. 31 7, 





extraordinary number could not have failed to at- 
tract public notice on other shores. The nature of 
these insects is to lie in the pupa state during the 
winter under ground ; and when, at its appointed 
time, the fly comes forth, it only lives to lay its eggs, 
usually dying within a few days or weeks. It must 
have been, therefore, after the laying their eggs on the 
turnips, and not before, that clouds of the flies were 
seen at sea and on the shore, though not arriving, 
but going away. They were, doubtless, impelled by 
that restless desire of change felt by all animals 
when death is approaching, and which in tropical 
countries is yearly exemplified in the destruction of 
locusts, for these always make for the sea, and 
perish there. But though they were thus got rid 
of in August, 1782, they left a progeny behind them 
in the black caterpillars which were hatched from 
their eggs. In the summer of 1783, accordingly, 
we are told by Mr. Marshall, that whole districts 
were ravaged by them, — the descendants, of course, 
in the second generation, of the saw-flies which pe- 
rished on the beach and at sea the preceding au- 
tumn. 

Some caterpillars, which either conceal them- 
selves under ground, or feed on roots and the wood 
of trees, do considerable injury, without apparent 
cause ; and often give occasion to the popular notions 
respecting mysterious blights. In this manner will 
the caterpillars of the ghost moth {Hepialus Humuli) 
gnaw the roots of the burdock, and, what is of more 
consequence, of the hop plant, tjU the shoots are 
weakened and the leaves droop in bright sunshine. 
We have repeatedly seen, in the gardens about Lee, 
a large branch of the red-currant bush, though pre- 
viously healthy and loaded with fruit, all of a sud- 
den droop and wither, giving good cause to sur- 
mise, except in the leaves not being brown or 




parched, that it had been struck with lightning. On 
cutting into such branches, however, the cause was 
uniformly found to be the ravages of the caterpillar 
of the currant hawk-moth {Mgeria tipuliformis^ 
Stephens), which abounds in the vicinity. But we 
have also remarked that it only occasionally produces 
this effect upon the trees ; for several bushes upon 
which we have found old pupa-cases projecting from 
the bark, remained healthy and uninjured*. Sir 
Joseph Banks showed Mr. Kirby a currant branch 
perforated by this caterpillar to the pith, and said the 
size of the fruit was in consequence diminished f. 
In Germany it is reported to destroy even large 
bushes of the red currant. There can be no doubt 
that the caterpillars of the goat moth frequently 
destroy willow, poplar, and oak trees, of considerable 
magnitude; but the mother moth seems to prefer 
laying her eggs upon those which have already 
begun to decay. A black poplar tree, not thicker 
than a man’s leg, and stripped on one side of more 
than a foot of the bark, was bored by above a dozen 
caterpillars of the clear underwing i^Mgeria asilu 
formis, Stephens), without seeming to have its 
growth at all retarded J. 

It does not appear that a minute moth, called by 
Leeuwenhoeck, who writes its history, the wolf, and 
by Haworth the mottled- woollen (Pk. Tinea granella, 
Linnaeus), is so abundant in Britain as to do much 
damage to the grain stored in granaries, upon which 
it feeds. But it seems to have created considerable 
alarm on the Continent. It has been found near 
London, and may increase with us. The cater- 
pillar, which is smooth and white, ties together with 
silk several grains of wheat, barley, rye, or oats, weav^ 

t Kirby and Spence, vol. i. p. 197. 

X See Ins. Arcbit., p. 192, 


J. R. 


 

in^ a ^llery between them, from which it projects its 
head while feedings ; the grains, as Reaumur remarks, 
being prevented from rolling or slipping by the silk 
which unites them. He justly ridicules the absurd 
notion of its filing off the outer skin of the wheat by 
rubbing upon it with its body, the latter being the 
softer of the two ; and he disproved, by experiment, 
Leeuwenhoeck’s assertion that it will also feed on 
woollen cloth. It is from the end of May till the 
beginning of July that the moths, which are of a 
silvery grey, spotted with brown, appear and lay their 
eggs in granaries. 

The caterpillar of another still more singular 
grain moth {Tinea Horded Kirby) proves some- 
times very destructive to granaries. The mother 
moth, in May or June, lays about twenty or more 
eggs on a grain of barley or wheat ; and when the 
caterpillars are hatched they disperse, each selecting 
a single grain. M. Reaumur imagines that san- 
guinary wars must sometimes arise, in cases of pre- 
occupancy, a single grain of barley being a rich 



Transformatioas of the'^fprain moths, a, grain of barley includ- 
ing a caterpillar ; 6, c, the grain cut across, seen to be Tiollow ed 
out, and divided by a partition of silk; d, the moth (iftaea 
Hordei) ; e, j^ains of wheat tied together by the caterpillar,/ ; 
//, the moth ^uplocamvM fftaneila). 






heritage for one of these tiny insects ; but he con- 
fesses he never saw such contests*. When the 
caterpillar has eaten its way into the interior of the 
grain, it feeds on the farina, taking care not to gnaw 
the skin nor even to throw out its excrements, so that 
except the little hole, scarcely discernible, the grain 
appears quite sound. When it has eaten all the 
farina, it spins itself a case of silk within the now 
hollow grain, and changes to a pupa in November f. 

Two other caterpillars of a different family, the 
honeycomb moth {Galleria cereana^ Fabr.), and the 
honey moth {G. alvearia, Fabr.), the first having 
square, and the second rounded wings J, do very 
considerable damage to the hives of bees. The 
moths of both, according to Reaumur, appear about 
the end of June or beginning of July; and when in 
danger they run rather than fly, gliding with such 
celerity that they can easily elude the vigilance of 
the bees, which, indeed, if we may trust Swam- 
merdam, never attack them, nor prevent their en- 
trance into the hives, unless they chance to brush 
against them in their passage. But Reaumur ac- 
tually saw the bees pursue one, though without 
success. It becomes easy for a moth, at all events, 
to lay eggs among the combs ; or as Keys says, at 
the entrance of the hive: this writer adds, “she 
spins a close and strong web to defend the young § 
which is impossible, as no insect, subsequent to its 
larva state, can spin. 

The caterpillar of the first species, “ wherever it 
passes,’’ says Swammerdam, “ gnaws round holes 
through the waxen cells, one caterpillar sometimes 
breaking open and destroying fifty or sixty cells. 

See Insect Architecture, p. 231. 
f Reaumur, Mem., vol. ii. p. 486, &c. 

1 Stephens’s Catalogue, vol. ii. p. 213. 

§ Keys, Treatise on Pees, p. 178, edit. 1814. 





Wherever it penetrates it always fabricates a hollow 
tubulated web, in which, as a rabbit in its burrow, 
it can very swiftly pass from one part to another, 
and speedily run back again. It fills the whole 
comb with such webs, and turns itself in them 
every way into various bendings and windings ; so 
that the bees are not only perplexed and disturbed in 
their work, but they frequently entangle themselves 
by the claws and hairs of their legs in those webs, 
and the whole hive is destroyed.” 

The other species he accuses of being not only 
destructive to the wax, but to the bees themselves. 
“I saw one of these little caterpillars,” he says, 
“ whilst it was still small, and was breaking the cells 
in which the pupa of the bees lie, and eating the wax 






there, cover up these pupse with its excrements, so 
that they could scarcely be known.” He adds with 
great naivete, “ I have learned these matters much 
against my inclination, and have been full of wrath 
against the insect for thus defiling and killing some 
bee pupae which I had designed to observe in their 
changes*.’* 

M. Bazin, a friend of Reaumur’s, discovered the 
caterpillar of a moth of this order feeding on choco- 
late, of which it seemed very choice, always pre- 
ferring that which had the finest flavour. The moth 
is sometimes produced in September, and some- 
times in the beginning of the following summer. 
It is probable that, like the cheese-fly, it might, in 
default of chocolate, select some other aliment f. 

? Swammerdam, vol. i, p. 225. f Reaumur, vol, iii, p, 277 






Voracity of Caterpillars, Grabs, and Maggots continued. 

Grubs. 

We frequently hear farmers and gardeners com- 
plaining that their produce is destroyed by “ the 
grub ; ’’ they might with equal propriety accuse 
“ /Ae bird'’ when their ripe seeds are devoured 
by sparrows, chaffinches, linnets, and other seed- 
eaters. Instead of one sort of grub, as the expression 
seems to indicate, we are far under the mark in 
reckoning a thousand species indigenous to Britain, 
each peculiar in its food and its manners. We shall, 
however, adhere as nearly as possible to the terms in 
common use; but as the larvic of the crane-flies 
(Tipulidai, Leach), being without legs, cannot be 
accurately ranked with the legged grubs of beetles, 
we shall consider them as maggots, though they are 
usually termed grubs by the farmers. 

The most destructive, perhaps, of the creatures 
usually called grubs, arc the larv® of the may-bug 
or cockchafer (Melolontfia vulgaris), but too well 
known, particularly in the southern and midland 
districts of England, as well as in Ireland, where 
the grub is called the Connaught worm*; but fortu- 
nately not abundant in the north. We only once 
met with the cockchafer in Scotland, at Sorn, in Ayr- 
shire t- Even in the perfect state, this insect is not 
a little destructive to the leaves of both forest and 
fruit trees. In 18*23, we remember to have observed 
almost all the trees about Dulwich and Camberwell 
? Bingley, Anim. Biog. vol.iii, p. 230. t J* Ik 






defoliated by them ; and Salisbury says, the leaves 
of the oaks in Richmond Park were so eaten by 
them, that scarcely an entire leaf was left. But it is 
in their previous larva state that they are most de- 
structive, as we shall see by tracing their history. 

The mother cockchafer, when about to lay her eggs, 
digs into the earth of a meadow or corn-field to the 
depth of a span, and deposits them in a cluster at 
the bottom of the excavation. Rosel, in order to 
watch their proceedings, put some females into 
glasses half-filled with earth, covered with a tuft of 
grass, and a piece of thin muslin. In a fortnight, 
he found some hundreds of eggs deposited, of an 
oval shape and a pale yellow colour. Placing the 
glass in a cellar, the eggs were hatched towards 
autumn, and the grubs increased remarkably in size. 
In the following May they fed so voraciously that 
they required a fresh turf every second day; and 
even this proving too scanty provender, he sowed in 
several garden pots a crop of peas, lentils, and salad, 
and when the plants came up, he put a pair of grubs 
in each pot ; and in this manner he fed them through 
the second and third years. During this period, 
they cast their skins three or four times, going for 
this purpose deeper into the earth, and burrowing 
out a hole where they might effect their change un- 
disturbed ; and they do the same in winter, during 
which they become torpid and do not eat. 

When the grub changes into a pupa, in the third 
autumn after it is hatched, it digs a similar burrow 
about a yard deep ; and when kept in a pot, and pre- 
vented from going deep enough, it shows great un- 
easiness and often dies. The perfect beetle comes 
forth from the pupa in January or February ; but it is 
then as soft as it was whilst still a grub, and does 
not acquire its hardness and colour for ten or twelve 
days, nor does it venture above ground before May, 





on the fourth year from the time of its hatching. At 
this time, the beetles may be observed issuing from 
their holes in the evening, and dashing themselves 
about in the air as if blind. 



TTansfomialions of the cockchafer {Melolontha vtdgaris), a, 
newly hatched larvae, b. larva, one year old. c, the i>aine larva 
at the second year of RTOWtb. d, the same three years old. c, 
section of a hank of earth, containing: the chrysalis of the fourth 
year, the chafer first emerging: from the earth, g, the perfect 
chafer in a sitting posture, h, the same flying. 

During the three summers then of their existence 
in the grub state, these insects do immense injuiyr, 
burrowing between the turf and the soil, and devour- 
ing the roots of grass and other plants ; so that the 




turf may easily be rolled off, as if cut by a turfing 
spade^ while the soil underneath for an inch or more 
is turned into soft mould like the bed of a garden. 
Mr. Anderson, of Norwich, mentions having seen 
a whole field of fine flourishing grass so under- 
mined by these grubs, that in a few weeks it became 
as dry, brittle, and withered’ as hay *. Bingley also 
tells us that “ about sixty years ago, a farm near 
Norwich was so infested with cockchafers, that the 
farmer and his servants affirmed they gathered eighty 
bushels of them ; and the grubs had done so much 
injury, that the court of the city, in compassion to 
the poor fellow’s misfortune, allowed him twenty- 
five poundsf.” In the year 1785, a farmer, near 
Blois, in France, employed a number of children and 
poor persons to destroy the cockchafers at the rate 
of two liards a hundred, and in a few days they col- 
lected fourteen thousand 

“ I remember,” says Salisbury, “ seeing, in a nur- 
sery near Bagshot, several acres of young forest 
trees, particularly larch, the roots of which were com- 
pletely destroyed by it, so much so, that not a single 
tree was left alive §.” We are doubtful, however, 
whether this was the grub of the cockchafer, and 
think it more likely to have been that of the green 
rose beetle {Cetonia auratd), which feeds on the roots 
of trees. 

The grub of an allied genus, the midsummer 
ch&feT (Zantheumia Solstitialis, Leach), has for the 
last two years been abundant on Lewisham Hill, 
Blackheath, doing considerable injury to herbage 
and garden plants. > This beetle may be known from 
being smaller and paler than the cockchafer, and 
from its not appearing before midsummer. The grub 
is very similar. 

? Philosopb. Trans, xliv. 679. f Anim. Biog. iii. 233. 

t Anderson’s Beer, in Agricult, iii, 420. $ HiuU^ 74. 






The best way of preventing the ravages of these 
insects would be to employ children to collect the 
perfect insects when they first appear, before they lay 
their eggs ; but when a held is once overrun with 
the larva, nothing can be done with it, except paring 
and burning the surface, or ploughing it up, and 
turning in a hock of ducks or other poultry, or a 
drove of pigs, which are said to eat these grubs, 
and to fatten on the fare. Drenching the field with 
stable urine* by means of reservoir carts, like those 
used for watering roads, would, if sufficiently done, 
both kill the grubs, and beneficially manure the land. 

The grub called the wire worm, though not very 
appropriately, is the larva of one of the spring or 
click beetles (Hemirhipus lineatus^ and H, obscurus^ 
Latreille), known by their long flattish body, and 
their power of springing with a clicking sound out 
of the hand when caught. In some works on agri- 
culture, the larva of a common crane fly (Tipula 
oUracea or T. crocatd) is called the wire worm^ — we 
suppose by mistake f. The grubs of the click bee- 
tles, just alluded to, are said by Bierscander | and 
by Mr. Paul of Starston, Norfolk §, who watched 
their transformations, to continue five years before 
producing the perfect insect. During this time the 
grub feeds chiefly on the roots of wheat, rye, oats, 
barley, and grass ; but seems also sometimes to attack 
the larger roots of potatoes, carrots, and salads. Its 
ravages are often so extensive as to cut oflT entire 
crops of grain. It appears to be most partial to land 
newly broken up ; and has not been found so abun- 
dant in meadows and pastures, unless in fields recently 
laid down with grass. “ The wire worm,” says 
Spence, “ is particularly destructive for a few years 

* See the Harleian Dairy System, p. 222. 
f See Loudon’s Encycl. of Agricult. 6921. 

X Act, Holm, 1779, p.284« ^ Kirby and Spence, i, 182, 





in gardens recently converted from pasture ground. 
In the botanic garden at Hull, thus circumstanced, a 
great proportion of the annuals sown in 1813 were 
destroyed by it. A very simple and effectual remedy, 
in such cases, was mentioned to me by Sir Joseph 
Banks. He recommended that slices of potatoes 
stuck upon skewers, should be buried near the seeds 
sown, examined every day, and the wire- worms, 
which collect upon them in great numbers, de- 
stroyed 

The wire worm is long, slender, and very tough 
and hard ; but otherwise it has no resemblance to 
wire, being whitish in colour, of a flattish form, and 
jointed or ringed. Its breathing spiracles, two in 
number, are on the back of its last ring. 




a. Wire worm ; 6, Click beetle. 


An insect of this family (Elater noctilucus, Linn.) 
is exceedingly destructive, in the West Indies, to the 
sugar-cane ; the grub, according to Humboldt and 
Bonpland, feeding on its roots and killing the 
plants t* 

Instances are by no means rare, however, of in- 
sects being accused of depredations of which they are 
not guilty, from the mere circumstance of their being 


* Intr. i. 182-3. f Geog, des Plantes, 136. 






found in abundance where ravages have been com- 
mitted by others that have naturally disappeared. It 
is not improbable that this was the case with a grub 
of some beetle (Staphylinidee?)^ mentioned by 
Mr. Walford, and mistaken by him for the wire 
worm. Out of fifty acres of wheat sown in 1802, 
ten had been destroyed in October, by this grub 
eating into the centre of the young stem an inch 
below the surface and killing the plant^. It seems 
still more probable that the grub of a native beetle 
{Zabrus gibbus, Stephens), which has been found 
in considerable numbers near Worthing, Brighton, 
Hastings, and Cambridge, has been unjustly blamed 
as a destroyer of corn ; though we have the respect- 
able authority of Germar, who, with other members 
of the society of Natural History of Halle, ima- 
gined he had ascertained the fact. In the spring of 
1813, about two hundred and thirty acres of young 
wheat are said to have been destroyed by it ; and it 
is farther supposed to be the same insect which 
caused great destruction in Italy in 1776. This grub 
is said to take probably three years in coming to a 
beetle, in which state it is alleged to clamber up the 
stems at night, to get at the corn. It is important 
to remark, that along with these grubs were found 





those of a chafer (Mdolontha rujicomis^ Fabr.), ia 
the proportion of about a fourth 

To this account, Mr. Stephens appends the shrewd 
questions — “ May not these herbivorous larvae [of the 
chafer] have been the principal cause of mischief to 
the wheat, while those of the Zabrus rather contri- 
buted to lessen their numbers, than to destroy the 
corn ? And is it not probable that the perfect insects 
ascend the corn for the purj>ose of devouring the 
insect parasites thereon? This is a subject,” he 
justly adds, “that requires investigation, as it is 
highly important, for the interests of the agricul- 
turist in those districts where the insect abounds, 
that the question should be thoroughly set at rest ; 
because, should the Zabri depart from the habits of 
the group to which they belong, and become herbi- 
vorous instead of carnivorous, their destruction would 
be desirable ; while, on the contrary, if they destroy 
the devourers of our produce their preservation 
should be attempted f.” 

We have little doubt that Mr. Stephens is right, 
and Germar wrong ; but it would be improper to 
decide the question by analogy unsupported by direct 
experiment. One thing is certain, that both this 
iamily {Harpalidce, MacLeay) and the whole sec- 
tion {Adephaga, Clairville) are not herbivorous, 
but carnivorous Similar errors will come under 
our notice, as we proceed, not more defensible 
than that of the old soldier causing caterpillars in 
France. 

Even when agricultural produce escapes being 
devoured at the root, or the young shoots eaten up, 
the seeds are often made the prey of the grubs of 

* Germar, Mag. der EntomoL, i. 1-10 ; and Kirby and Spence, 
i. 169. 

f Stephens, Illustrations, i. Mandib. pp. 4 and 140. 

I See an Illustration in Insect Architect., p. 207-8. 



beetles and weevils. Amon^ the first, the gnawing 
beetles {Bruchidce, Leach) are very destructive. 
In North America, the pea beetle (Bruchw Pisi, 
Linn.) commits such extensive depredations on 
pulse, that in some districts the sowing of peas has 
been abandoned as useless. Kalm, the Swedish 
traveller, having witnessed these depredations in 
America, became quite alarmed when he discovered 
the insect among some peas he had brought to 
Sweden, lest he should be the means of introducing 
so formidable a pest*. His fears seem to us to have 
been in a great measure groundless ; for, probably, 
the insect may be indigenous to Sweden, as it is to 
Britain, though from circumstances of climate, and 
other causes, it is seldom produced in such numbers 
with us as to occasion extensive damage. It may have 
been the same or an allied species of grub mentioned 
by Amoroux as having spread an alarm in France in 
1780, when the old fancy of its being poisonous 
induced the ])ublic authorities to prohibit peas from 
being sold in the marketsf. The insect most 
destructive to our peas is the pulse beetle {Bruchus 
^ranarius, Linn.), which sometimes lays an egg on 
every pea in a pod, which the grub, when hatched, 
destroys. In the same way, clover seed is often attacked 
by two or more species of small weevil {Apion^ 
Herbst), known by the yellow colour of their 
thighs or their feet ; and when the farmer expects to 
reap considerable profit, he finds nothing but empty 
husks. 

We have mentioned the ravages committed in 
granaries by the caterpillars of small moths; but 
these are rivalled in the work of destruction by 
several species of grubs. One of these grubs is 

? Kalm’s Travels, vol. i, p. 173. 

t Amoroux, Insectes Venimcux, 288, Kirby and Spence, 
i. 177. 





called by the French cadelle (Trogosita mauritanica, 
Olivier), and is reported to have done more damage 
to housed grain than any other insect*. The pest 
of the granaries, which is but too well known in this 
country, is the grain weevil (Calandra granaria^ 
Clairville), the same, probably, which is mentioned 
by Virgil, 

— — PopuJatque ingentem farris acervum 
Curculio. Georg, i. 87 . 

The high stacks of corn 

Are wasted by the weevil, Trapp, 

Kirby and Spence calculate that a single pair of 
weevils may produce in one season 6000 descendants ; 
and they were told by an extensive brewer that he 
had collected and destroyed them by bushels t,— 
meaning, no doubt, insects and damaged grain 
together. 



Com weevil {Calandra granaria), magnified. 


Another beetle gnib, popularly called the meal 
worm, the larva of Tenehrio molitor^ Linn., which 
lives in that state two years, does no little damage to 
flour, as well as to bread, cakes, biscuit, and similar 
articles. Accounts are also given of the ravages com- 
mitted by the grubs of other beetles, of several species 
apparently not well ascertained, upon different sorts of 
provisions, such as bacon, ham, dried tongues, ship- 
biscuit, &c. Sparrman tells us, that he has wit- 
. essed the ground peas on ship-board so infested 
? Olivier, ii. 19. i. 173. 





with these grabs, that they were seen in every 
spoonful of the soup. In the case of soup, or of other 
food which has been exposed to heat, the only 
inconvenience is the disgust which must ensue; 
but, unfortunately, there may sometimes occur cir- 
cumstances of a more serious nature, — from either 
the eggs or the insects themselves being incautiously 
swallowed alive. We do not wish, however, to 
create, so much as to allay, the fears entertained by 
those who are unacquainted with the habits of 
insects ; and nothing we are persuaded will do this 
more effectually than a statement of facts well 
ascertained. “ Several people,” says the Abb^ de la 
Pluche, “ never eat fruit because they believe that 
spiders and other insects scatter their eggs upon it 
at random* but even if this were so, as it is not, 
it would be impossible for the young, should they be 
hatched in the stomach, to live there for an instant. 
The possible cases in which this may occur we shall 
now briefly notice ; they are fortunately very rare. 

The meal worm, and some of the grubs which 
feed on grain and other provisions, are recorded to 
have been swallowed, and to have given rise to 
disorders in the stomach and bowels ; but in all such 
cases it is plain, that if the insects did survive 
the increased temperature of the stomach, they 
could only live on the food swallowed from time to 
time, for, not being carnivorous, they would not attack 



Meal worm, and the beetle produced from it. 


* Spectacle de la Nature^ i. 65. 






the stomach itself. The same remark will apply no 
less forcibly to the herbivorous larvae, which might 
chance to be swallowed in salad, &c. The cater^ 
pillar of the tabby moth {Aglossa pinguincdU^ 
Latreille), which feeds on butter, the leather on 
book-boards, &c., is said, on the authority of Lin- 
naeus, to get sometimes into the stomach, and to 
produce considerable ‘disorder*; but this insect is 
very common in houses t, and, from the rarity of 
such accidents, we are led to doubt the evidence 
usually brought forward. In this case we are 
the more induced to question the authority of Lin- 
naeus, from his having made an evident mistake in a 
similar case respecting intestinal worms. 





Transformations of the tabby moth {Aglossapinguinalis). a, the 
caterpillar feeding on butter ; 6, c, d, feeding on leather under 
galleries} c, the moth with the down rubbed off; /, the same 
perfect. 

Linnsus affirms, that in the presence of seven of 
his companions he discovered, near Reuterholm, in 
Dalecarha, a tape worm in acidulous ochre (jOchram 
addularem)^ at which he marvelled the more since 

? Linnseus, quoted by Kirby and Spence, i. 136. 
t Latreille^ Hist, uv. 229. 





acidulous water of this kind had been drank with 
the design of expelling these worms This 
account, however, proves too little ; for, as Bonnet, 
Rt^aumur, Pallas, and other eminent naturalists 
remark, if such were the fact, we should find in- 
testinal worms (so very numerous in most animals) 
swarming in such places, and from their size 
(Boerhaave saw one thirty ells long) they could 
not escape observation ; whereas this was at that 
time the only instance recorded of one found 
out of the body. We are of opinion that Lin- 
neeus must have been deceived by similarity of 
form. A subsequent instance is recorded by Dr. 
Barry, of Cork, who imagined he had found the 
origin of the common small thread worm (fixyuru 
vermicidaris, Bremsek) in the water of a well — the 
aquatic only differing from the intestinal worms 
in colour. But were all descriptions as loose as this 
the grossest mistakes must ensue; for it is quite 
clear that Dr. Barry’s aquatic worms were a very 
common species {Nais)^ and though similar in 
external form, altogether different in internal 
structure from the OxyuridtB of the intestines. 
Were the latter, indeed, introduced into the body 
from water, they would not only be found in this 
particular well, two miles from Cork, but would 
swarm in all the waters in the empire ; since there 
are few individuals who are not affected with these 
worms at some period of their lives. According to 
our experiments, the ndis ceases to exist in a tem- 
perature considerably less than that of the human 
body; besides, as it lives on minute fresh-water 
molluscae, it could find no food in the intestinest- 
The celebrated Dr. J. P. Frank is no less mistaken 
in referring us for the origin of intestinal worms to 
“minute insects flying in the airj ;” for, if so, the 

* Linnaeus, quoted by Bonnet, QSuvres, iii. 137. f J. R, 
X Frank. De Curand. Homin. Morb. lib. vi. 





worms would naturally produce similar insects to 
their parents ; whereas tViey are either oviparous, as 
Goetze affirms, or, as Bremser thinks, ovo-viparous * 
both agreeing that they are not transformed into 
flying insects. Reaumur made the more plausible 
conjecture, that they might be introduced by eating 
tench and other fish, in which they are known to 
abound t ; but, independently of their being destroyed 
by heat in cooking, this has been subsequently dis- 
proved by experiment ; for M. Deslonchamps says, 
that “ when animals are fed for some time on in- 
testinal worms (Entoozaria) alone, and then killed, 
they are not found infested with these worms J.’* 
Valisnieri and Hartsocker suppose, without a shadow 
of proof, that worms are transmitted from parents 
to children like other hereditary disorders ; while 
the late M. Lamarck refers their production to “ the 
march of nature in the production of all living 
beings § !” This indefinite doctrine is also held 
by Geoffroi St. Hilaire, Cuvier, Blumenbach, and 
other distinguished living naturalists ; but we think 
it more philosophical and more manly, in such 
obscure cases, at once to confess our ignorance of the 
ways of nature, and to wait for further observation, 
than to frame idle theories, supported only by vague 
analogies and doubtful facts. 

It may not be uninteresting to mention, however, 
that upwards of 1200 species of intestinal worms 
have been discovered: and probably there may be 
twice as many more of whose existence nothing is 
yet known. Sixteen of these species have been 
found in the human body ; the rest are peculiar to 
other animals ||. Some of the more singular species 

* Bremser, Uber Lebende Wiirmer in leb. Mcnsch. 
f Letter to Bonnet, CBuvres, vol. iii. p.344. 

J Diet. Ciassique, vol. viii. p.589. 

$ Anim. sans Vertebres, vol,i. p. 15. 

II Diet. Ciassique, vol. viii. p.593. 





are here represented, from the splendid work of 
Bremser. 



Intestinal worms. 


That insects are, in some rare cases, intro- 
duced into the human stomach, has been more than 
once proved; though the greater number of the 
accounts of such facts in medical books are too 
inaccurate to be trusted*. But one extraordinary 
case has been completely authenticated, both by me- 
dical men and competent naturalists ; and is pub- 
lished in the Dublin Transactions, by Dr. Pickells 
of Corkt. Mary Riordan, aged 28, had been much 
affected by the death of her mother, and at one of 
her many visits to the grave seems to have partially 
lost her senses, having been found lying there on 
the morning of a winters day, and having been ex- 
posed to heavy rain during the night. When she 
was about fifteen, two popular Catholic priests had 
died, and she was told by some old women that if she 

* See Good’s Nosologia, Helminthia Alvij and Study of Mcd« 
vol. i. p. 336. 

+ Trans, of Assoc. Phys, in Ireland, iv. vii, and p. 177, 8vo. 

Dublin, 1824—1626, 


 


would drink daily, for a certain time, a quantity of 
water, mixed with clay taken from their graves, she 
would be for ever secure from- disease and sin. Fol- 
lowing this absurd and disgusting prescription, she 
took ^m time to time large quantities of the draught; 
some time afterwards, being affected with a burning 
pain in the stomach (Cardialgia)^ she began to eat 
large pieces of chalk, which she sometimes also mixed 
with water and drank. 

Now, whether in any or in all of these draughts she 
swallowed the eggs of insects, so be affirmed ; 
but for several years she continue ^ ^ throw up incre- 
dible numbers of grubs and magt ts, chiefly of the 
churchyard beetle (Blaps mortisaga^ Fabr.). “ Of 
the larvae of the beetle,” says Dr. Pickells, “ I am 
sure I considerably underrate, when I say that not 
less than 700 have been thrown up from the stomach 
at different times since the commencement of my 
attendance. A great proportion were destroyed by 
herself to avoid publicity; many, too, escaped im- 
mediately by running into holes in the floor. Up- 
wards of ninety were submitted to Dr. Thomson's* 
examination ; nearly all of which, including two of the 
specimens of the meal worm {Tenebrio molitor)^ I 
saw myself, thrown up at diflferent times. The aver- 
age size was about an inch and a half in length, and 
four lines and a half in girth. The larvae of the dip- 
terous insect, though voided only about seven or eight 
times, according to her account, came up almost 
literally in myriads. They were alive and moving.^' 
Altogether, Dr. Pickells saw nearly 2000 grubs of 
the beetle, and there were many which he did not 
see. Mr. Clear, an intelligent entomologist of Cork, 
kept some of them alive for more than twelve months. 
Mr. S. Cooper cannot understand whence the con- 
tinued supply of the grubs was provided, seeing that 
* The weU-kDOwa author of Zoological Researches/’ &c. 






Wv® do not propagate, and that only one pupa and 
one perfect insect were voided*; but the simple fact 
that most beetles live several years in the state of 
larvae sufficiently accounts for this. Their existing and 
thriving in the stomach, too, will appear less wonder- 
ful from the fact that it is exceedingly difficult to kill 
this insect ; for Mr. Henry Baker repeatedly plunged 
one into spirits of wine, so fiital to most insects, but it 
revived, even after being immersed a whole night, 
and afterwards lived three years t* 



^Churchyard beetle (^Biaps mortisaga), in the grub and perfect state, 
from the figures of Dr. Pickells. 


That there was no deception on the part of the 
woman, is proved by the fact that she was always 
: anxious to conceal the circumstance ; and that it was 
‘Only by accident that the medical gentlemen, Drs. 
Pickells, Herrick, and Thomson, discovered it. More- 
over, it does not appear that, though poor, she ever 
took advantage of it to extort money. It is interest- 

* Cooper's edition of Good’s Study of Medicine, i. 358. 
t Philotoph. Trans., No. 457. 

Y 





ing to leam that by means of turpentine, in large 
doses, she was at length cured. 

The grub of the nut weevil {Balaninus Nucuntj 
Germar) might, perhaps, by rare accident, get into 
the stomach, either of man or of the quadrupeds 
which feed oii nuts ; but as it is by no means so 
tenacious of life as the grub of the churchyard-beetle 
(Blaps mortisaga) above described, it is unlikely 
that it would produce any considerable disorder. 
The weevil in question, like the rest of its congeners, 
is furnished with an instrument for depositing its 
eggs considerably different from those of the ichneu- 
mons and saw-flies. For this purpose the weevil 
makes use of its long horny beak {Rostrum) to drill 
a hole in filberts and hazel-nuts, while in their young 
and soft state, about the beginning of August. The 
mother weevil may then be seen eagerly running 
over the bushes, and it would appear that she always 
rejects the nuts in which one of her neighbours may 
have previously laid an egg ; at least we never find 
two grubs in the same nut. The egg, which is thus 
thrust into the young nut, is of a brown colour, and 
is hatched in about a fortnight, the grub feeding on 
the interior of the shell as well as the soft pulp, till 
the one becomes too hard and the other too dry to be 
nutritive. It is remarkable that, during this period, 
he takes care not to injure the kernel, but permits it 
to ripen before he attacks it Had he done this pre- 
maturely, he would have ultimately been starved, as 
he has not the power of perforating another nut 
when the first is consumed. It is said also that he 
is very careful to preserve the original hole made by 
the mother, by gnawing around its inner edges, in 
order to facilitate his exit*, which he effects when the 
* Bingley, Auimal Biography, vol. iii,, p. 251. 





nut falls to the ground in September or October. 
The hole found in the nut appears much too small 
to have admitted of its passage ; but from being very 
soft it no doubt stretches itself out for the purpose, 
using its short claws as instruments of motion. 

Rosel, in order to observe the transformation of 
these nut grubs, put a number, of them, at the com- 
mencement of winter, into glasses half filled with 
earth, covered with green turf. All of them dug 
directly down into the earth, remained there all 
the winter, and did not change into pupae till the fol- 
lowing J une ; the perfect weevils appeared from the 
1st till about the 20th of August, but still kept under 
ground for the first week after their change. 



Nut and apple-tree beetles. A, a branch of the filbert-tree, 
a, egg hole in the nut ; 6, exit hole of the grub. B, the lanrse of 
the nut beetle. C, the same in the pupa state. D, female beetle. 

E, male beetle, c, the beetle that destroys the bloom-bud of the 
apple-tree ; a, the same in the larva state ; 6, the chrysalis of 
the same. 

“ During the autumn,” says Salisbury, “ we fre- 
quently observe a small red weevil busily employed 
in traversing the branches of apple-trees, on which 
it lays its eggs by perforating the bloom buds. In 
the spring, these hatch, and the grubs feed on the 




petals of the flowers, drawing up the whole flower 
into a cluster by means of their web. The bloom 
thus becomes destroyed, and the grub falls to the 
ground, where it lays itself up in the chrysalide state ; 
and in the autumn afterwards we find the weevU 
renewed, which again perforates the buds, and causes 
a similar destniction in the following spring. Mr. 
Knight, in his treatise on the apple, mentions a beetle 
which commits great destruction on the apple-trees in 
Herefordshire ; but I do not think it the same as the 
one I have described above, and which is very common 
in the gardens near London*.** Salisbury’s weevil 
is probably the Anthonomvs Pomorum oi Germar; 
and Knight’s, his Polydrvsm Mali, Another weevil 
(Rkynchites Bacchus, Herbst), one of our most 
splendid but not very common native insects, bores 
into the stone of the cherry, &c. while it is young 
and soft, and deposits an egg there, as the nut weevil 
does in the nut. 

Perhaps the most voracious grub on record is that 
of a large and beautiful beetle (Calosoma syco- 
phanta, Weber), which is rare in Britain. It is 
sometimes found in the nests of the processionary and 
other gregarious caterpillars, so gorged with those it 
has devoured that it can scarcely move without 
bursting. Not contented with this prey alone, how- 
ever, the younger grubs are said “ often to take ad- 
vantage of the helpless inactivity into which the glut- 
tony of their matiirer comrades has thrown them, 
and from mere wantonness, it should seem, when in 
no need of other food, pierce and devour themf.” It 
is a familiar occurrence to those who breed insects to 
find caterpillars, whose natural food is leaves, devour- 
ing others in the same nurse-box ; and without any 
* Salisbury's Hints on Orchards, p. 92. 
t Kirby and Spence; vol. i.p. 277. 





apparent discrimination whether these are the progeny 
of their own mother, or of a diflFerent species *. 

We have frequently observed a very remarkable 
instinct in the grubs of a species of beetle (Scolyius 
Destructor, Geoffrov), which lives under the dead 
bark of trees. The mother insect, as is usual with 
beetles, deposits her eggs in a patch or cluster in a 
chink or hole in the bark ; and when the brood is 
hatched, they begin feeding on the bark which had 
formed their cradle. There is, of course, nothing won 
derful in their eating the food selected by their mother; 
but it appears that, like the caterpillars of the clothes 
moth, and the tent insects, they cannot feed except 
under cover. They dig, therefore, long tubular galleries 
between the bark and the wood ; and, in order not 
to interfere with the runs of their brethren, they 
branch off from the place of hatching like rays from 
the centre of a circle : though these are not al- 
ways in a right line, yet, however near they may ap- 
proach to the contiguous ones, none of them ever 



Bark mined in rays by beetle grabs. 

* J. R, See also De Geer, i, 533, &c., and Reaumur, ii. 413. 




break into each other’s premises. We cannot but ad- 
mire the remarkable instinct implanted in those grubs 
by their Creator ; which guides them thus in lines di- 
verging farther and farther as they increase in size, 
so that they are prevented from interfering with the 
comforts of one another. 

The various instances of voracity which we have 
thus described sink into insignificance, when com- 
pared with the terrible devastation produced by the 
larv® of the locust (Locusta migratoriay Leach), 
— the scourge of oriental countries. “ A fire de- 
voureth before them,” says the Prophet Joel, “ and 
behind them a flame burneth : the land is as the 
garden of Eden before them, and behind them a 
desolate wilderness ; yea, and nothing shall escape 
them. The sound of their wings is as the sound of 
chariots, of many horses running to battle ; on the 
tops of mountains shall they leap, like the noise of a 
flame of fire that devoureth the stubble, as a strong 
people set in battle-array. Before their faces, the 
people shall be much pained, all faces shall gather 
blackness. They shall run like mighty men ; they 
shall climb the wall like men of war ; and they shall 
march every one in his ways, and they shall not break 
their ranks; neither shall one thrust another*.” 

The intelligent traveller. Dr. Shaw, was an eye- 
witness of their devastations in Barbary in 1724, 
where they first appeared about the end of March, 
their numbers increasing so much in the beginning 
of April as literally to darken the sun ; but by the 
middle of May they began to disappear, retiring into 
the Mettijiah and other adjacent plains to depo- 
sit their eggs. “ These were no sooner hatched 
in June,” he continues, “ than each of the broods 
collected itself into a compact body, of a furlong or 
more in square ; and marching afterwards directly 
? Joel ii. 2, &c. 





forwards toward the sea, they let nothing escape 
them, — they kept their ranks like men of war; climb- 
ing over, as they advanced, every tree or wall that 
was in their way ; nay, they entered into our very 
houses and bed-chambers, like so many thieves. 
The inhabitants, to stop their progress, formed 
trenches all over their fields and gardens, which they 
filled with water. Some placed large quantities of 
heath, stubble, and other combustible matter, in rows, 
and set them on fire on the approach of the locusts ; 
but this was all to no purpose, for the trenches were 
quickly filled up, and the fires put out, by immense 
swarms that succeeded each other. 

“ A day or two after one of these hordes was 
in motion, others were already hatched to march and 
glean after them. Having lived near a month in this 
manner, they arrived at their full growth, and threw 
off their nympha-state by casting their outward skin. 
To prepare themselves for this change, they clung 
by their hinder feet to some bush, twig, or corner of 
a stone ; and immediately, by using an undulating 
motion, their heads would first break out, and then 
the rest of their bodies. The whole transformation 
was performed in seven or eight minutes ; after which 
they lay for a small time in a torpid, and, seemingly, 
in a languishing condition ; but as soon as the sun 
and the air had hardened theirwings by drying up the 
moisture that remained upon them after casting their 
sloughs, they resumed their former voracity, with an 
addition of strength and agility. Yet they continued 
not long in this state before they were entirely dis- 
persed 

It is difficult to form an adequate conception of 
the swarms of locusts which, in 1797, invaded 
the interior of southern Africa, as recorded by Mr. 
Barrow. In the part of the country where he was, 
* Shaw’s Travels, p. 287. 




the whole surface of the ground, for an area of 
nearly two thousand square miles, might literally be 
said to be covered with them. The water of a very 
wide river was scarcely visible, on account of the dead 
carcases of locusts that floated on the surface, drowned 
in the attempt to come at the reeds that grew in it. 
They had devoured every blade of grass, and every 
green herb, except the reeds. But they are not pre- 
cisely without a choice in their food. When they at- 
tack a field of corn just come into ear, they first, ac- 
cording to Mr. Barrow, mount to the summit and 
pick out every grain before they touch the leaves and 
stem, keeping the while constantly in motion, with the 
same intent of destruction always in view. When the 
larvae, which are much more voracious than the perfect 
insects, are on a march during the day, it is utterly 
impossible to turn the direction of the troop, and this 
seems usually to correspond with that of the wind. 
Towards the setting of the sun the march is discon- 
tinued, when the troop divides into companies that sur- 
round the small shrubs, or tufts of grass, or ant- 
hills, in such thick patches, that they appear like so 
many swarms of bees ; and in this manner they rest till 
day-light. At these times it is that the farmers have 
any chance of destroying them ; this they sometimes 
effect by driving among them a flock of two or three 
thousand sheep, by whose restlessness great numbers 
of them are trampled to death. The year 1797 was 
the third of their continuance in Sneuwberg; and their 
increase had been more than a million-fold from year 
to year. 

This district, however, had been entirely free from 
them for ten years preceding their visit in 1794. 
Their former exit was singular : all the full-grown 
insects were driven into the sea by a tempestuous 
north-west wind, and were afterwards cast up on the 
beach, where they formed a bank of three or four feet 





high, and extending to a distance of nearly fifty miles. 
When this mass b^ame putrid, and the wind was at 
south-east, the stench was sensibly felt in several parts 
of Sneuwberg, although distant at least a hundred 
and fifty miles 

Pallas gives a more detailed account of the daily 
proceedings of the lar\^ffi of the Italian locust (Lo- 
custa Italica, Leach). “ In serene weather,” he 
tells us, “ the locusts are in full motion in the morn- 
ing, immediately after the evaporation of the dew ; 
and if no dew has fallen, they appear as soon as the 
sun imparts his genial warmth. At first, some are 
seen running about like messengers among the re- 
posing swarms, which are lying partly compressed 
upon the ground at the side of small eminences, and 
partly attached to tall plants and shrubs. Shortly 
after the whole body begins to move forward in one 
direction, and with little deviation. They resemble a 
swarm of ants, all taking the same course, at small 
distances, but without touching each other : they uni- 
formly travel towards a certain region as fast as a fly 
can run, and without leaping, unless pursued ; in 
which case, indeed, they disperse, but soon collect 
again and follow their former route. In this manner 
they advance from morning to evening without halt- 
ing, frequently at the rate of a hundred fathoms, and 
upwards, in the course of a day. Although they pre- 
fer marching along high roads, foot-paths, or open 
tracts, yet, when their progress is opposed by bushes, 
hedges, and ditches, they penetrate through them : 
their way can only be impeded by the waters of 
brooks or canals, as they are apparently terrified at 
every kind of moisture. Often, however, they en- 
deavour to gain the opposite bank, with the aid of 
overhanging boughs ; and, if the stalks of plants or 
shrubs l3e laid across the water, they pass in close 
? Barrow’s Travels in South Africa, p. 257. 





columns over these temporary bridges, on which they 
even seem to rest, and enjoy the refreshing coolness. 
Towards sun-set, the whole swarm gradually collect 
in parties, and creep up the plants, or encamp on 
slight eminences. On cold, cloudy, or rainy days, 
they do not travel. As soon as they acquire wings, 
they progressively disperse, but still fly about in large 
swarms*.” 

When Captains Irby and Mangles were travelling 
round the southern extremity of the Dead Sea, in the 
end of May, they had an opportunity of observing 
these insect depredators. “ In the morning,” say 
they, “ we quitted Shobek. On our way we passed a 
swarm of locusts that were resting themselves in a 
gully they were in suflBcient numbers to alter ap- 
parently the colour of the rock on which they h^ 
alighted, and to make a sort of crackling noise while 
eating, which we heard before we reached them. 
Volney compares it to the foraging of an army. Our 
conductors told us they were on their way to Gaza, 
and that they pass almost annually 

Even our own island has been alarmed by the ap- 
pearance of locusts, a considerable number having 
visited us in 1748; but they happily perished without 
propagating. Other parts of Europe have not been 
so fortunate. In 1650 a cloud of locusts were seen 
to enter Russia in three diflerent places ; and they 
afterwards spread themselves over Poland and Li- 
thuania in such astonishing multitudes, that the air 
was darkened, and the earth covered with their num- 
bers. In some places they were seen lying dead, 
heaped upon each other to the depth of four feet ; in 
others they covered the surface of the ground like a 
black cloth : the trees bent with their weight, and the 


? Travels in Russia, ii, 422-6. 
t Irby and Mangles’ Travels in Egypt and Syria, p. 443. 





damage the country sustained exceeded computation 
They have frequently come also from Africa into 
Italy and Spain. In the year 591 an infinite army 
of locusts, of a size unusually large, ravaged a con- 
siderable part of Italy, and being at last cast into the 
sea, (as seems for the most part to be their fate,) 
a pestilence, it is alleged, arose from their stench, 
which carried off nearly a million of men and beasts. 
In the Venetian territory, likewise, in 1478, more 
than 30,000 persons are said to have perished in a 
famine chiefly occasioned by the depredations of 
locusts t- 

* Bingley, Anim. Biog., iii., 280. 

f MoujOTetj Theatr. Insect., 123. 




Voracity of Caterpillars, Grabs, and Magfgots conducted* 

Maggots. 

Adhering to the distinction of terming those larvae 
which are destitute of feet, maggotSy we shall notice 
here a very destructive one, which is sometimes popu- 
larly called the grub, and sometimes confounded with 
the wire worm*. We allude to the larvae of one or two 
common species of crane flies {Tipulid(B)y well known 
by the provincial names of father-long-legs, Jenny- 
spiniiers, and tailors. These insects are so common 
in some meadows, that, being very shy and fearful of 
danger, they rise in swarms at every step — some of 
them flying high, others only skipping over the grass, 
and others running and using their long legs as the 
inhabitants of marshy countries use stilts, and em- 
ploying their wings like the ostrich to aid their 
limbs. 

These flies deposit their eggs in the earth ; some- 
times in grass fields or moist meadows, and some- 
times in the tilled ground of gardens and farms. 
For this purpose the female is provided with an ovi- 
positor well adapted to the opeiation, consisting of a 
sort of pincers or forceps of a horny consistence, and 
sharp at the point. By pressure, as Reaumur says, 
the eggs may be extruded from this in the same way 
as the stone can be easily squeezed out of a ripe 
cherry, as in the following figure. 

* See Stickney’s Observ, era the Grub, 8vo. Hull, 1800. 



Maggots of crane plies. 




Ovipositor and eggs of the crane fly {Tipula), 

The eggs are exceedingly small and black, like 
grains of gunpowder, and each female lays a good 
many hundreds. The position which she assumes 
appears somewhat awkward, for she raises herself 
perpendicularly on her two hind legs, using her ovi- 
positor as a point of support, and resting with her 
fore-legs upon the contiguous herbage. She then 
thrusts her ovipositor into the ground as far as 
the first ring of her body, and leaves one or more 
eggs in the hole ; and next moves onwards to ano- 
ther place, but without bringing herself into a hori- 
zontal position. The maggot, when hatched from 
the egg, immediately attacks the roots of the grass 
and other herbage which it finds nearest to it ; and 
of course the portion of the plant above ground 
withers for lack of nourishment. 

The maggots of this family which seem to do most 
injury are those of Tipula oleracea and T, cornicina. 
In the summer of 1828, we observed more than an 
acre of ground, adjoining the Bishop of Oxford’s 
garden, at Blackheath, as entirely stripped, both of 
grass and every thing green, as if the turf had been 







Crane fly ovipositing, and the larva beneath, in the earth, feeding' 
upon grass roots. 

pared off from the surface, the only plant untouched 
being the tiny bird tare {Ornithopus perpusillm): 
On digging here to learn the cause, we found these 
larvae already full-fed, and about to pass into pupae, 
after having left nothing upon which they could subsist. 
It was not a little remarkable that they seemed to be 
altogether confined to this spot ; for we did not meet 
with a single foot of turf destroyed by them in any 
other part of the heath, or in the adjacent fields- So 




very complete, however, was their destruction of the 
roots on the spot in question, that even now, at the 
distance of two years, it is still visibly thinner of 
herbage than the parts around it 

Reaumur gives a similar account of their ravages 
in Poitou* where, in certain seasons, the grass of the 
low moist meadows has been so parched up in conse- 
quence, as not to afford sufficient provender for the 
cattle. He describes the soil in Poitou as a black 
peat mould; and it was the same in which we found 
them at Blackheath, with this difference, that the spot 
was elevated and dry. According to M. Rt^aumur, also, 
their only food is this sort of black mould, and not the 
roots of grass and herbage, which he thinks are only 
loosened by their burrowing t* This view of the matter 
appears strongly corrolx)rated by the fact that several 
species of the family feed upon the mould in the holes 
of decaying trees, particularly the larva of a very 
beautiful one {Ctenophora Jlaveolata^ Meigen), 
which is very rare in Britain. It is proper to men- 
tion, however, that Mr. Stickney’s experiments J, 
contrary to the conclusions of Reaumur, indicate 
that these larvae devour the roots of grass ; and Stew- 
art says they “ feed on the roots of plants, corn, and 
grasses, and are thence destructive to gardens, fields, 
and meadows. They prevailed in the neighbourhood 
of Edinburgh, and other places in Scotland, in the 
spring of 1800, when they laid waste whole fields of 
oats and other grain §.” 

In many districts of England these insects cut off 
a large proportion of the wheal crop, particularly, it 
would appear, when it had been sown on clover leys. 
“ In the rich distiict,'’ say Kirby and Spence, “ of 
Sunk Island, in Holderness, in the spring of 1813, 
hundreds of acres of pasture have been entirely de- 

* J. R. t Reaumur, v. 12, &c. 

Obs. on the Grub, ^ ^ Elements, ii., 267. 




^troyed by them, being rendered as completely brown 
as if they had suffered a three months’ drought, and 
destitute of all vegetation except a few thistles. A 
square foot of the dead turf* being dug up, 210 grubs 
were counted on it ; and, what furnishes a striking 
proof of the prolific powers of those insects, last year 
it was difficult to find a single one 

It is worthy of remark that the mandibles of these 
destructive creatures, which are claw-shaped and 
transverse, do not act against each other as is usual 
among insects, but against two other pieces which are 
immoveable, convex, and toothed, — as if the under- 
jaw in quadrupeds were divided into two, and should 
act vertically on the two portions of the immoveable 
upper-jaw thrown in between them. 

The maggot of a minute fly of the same family, 
known by the name of the wheat fly (Ceddo- 
myia Tritici, Kirby), is frequently productive of 
great damage in the crops of wheat. Its history was 
first investigated by Marsham, and subsequently by 
Kirby, and several other intelligent naturalists The 
parent fly is very small, not unlike a midge (Ciilicoi- 
des punctata, Latr.), of an orange colour, and wings 
rounded at the tip, and fringed with hairs t. The 
female is furnished with a retractile ovipositor, four 
times as long as the body, and as fine as a hair, for 
depositing her eggs, which she does in the glumes 
of the florets of the grain. The following account of 
its proceedings is given by Mr. Shireff, an intelli- 
gent farmer of East Lothian. 

“ Wheat-flies,” he says, “ were first observed here 
this season on the evening of the 21st of June, and, 
from the vast number seen, it is probable a few of 
them may have been in existence some days previous. 

• Intr. i. 318, note. 

f Linn. Trans., iii., 243 — iv., 234-240 ; v., 96. 






The eggs were visible on the 28d, the larvae on the 
80th of that month, and the pupae on the 29th of 
July. The flies were observed depositinp^ egc^s on 
the 28th, and finally disappeared on the 30th July ; 
thus having existed throughout a period of thirty- 
nine days. 

“ The flies were observed to frequent the wheat- 
plant, including the thick-rooted couch-grass (Triti- 
cum repens). They generally reposed on the lower 
parts of the stems during the day, and became active 
about sunset, except when the wind was high. I 
have, however, seen them flying about on cloudy 
mornings, till seven o’clock ; and, upon one occasion, 
witnessed them de])ositing their eggs, in a shaded 
situation, at two in the afternoon. Their movements 
appear to be influenced by the rays of light, of which 
they seem impatient, being active when the sun is 
below or near the horizon : they frequent the most 
umbrageous part of the crop, and shun that which is 
deficient in foliage. 

“ The flies almost invariably preferred the ears 
emerging from the vagina to those farther advanced, 
for depositing their eggs on ; and as one side only 
of the ear is exposed when the plant is in this stage 
of growth, the other side generally remained unin- 
jured. The fly deserted the fields as the crop ad- 
vanced towards maturity, and were found longest 
on the spring-sown portion of the crop. It seemed 
to feed on the gum adhering to the newly emerged 
ears ; and as there is a great diversity in the time of 
sowing wheat in this neighbourhood, and conse- 
quently of the ears escaping from the vagina, I 
attribute the unusual length of time it has existed 
this season, to the supply of food thus gradually 
fiirnished. 

“ The fly deposits its eggs with much intensity, 
and may easily be taken when so employed. Upon 




one occasion, I numbered thirty-five flies on a single 
ear ; and, after carrying it a distance of a quarter of 
a mile, six of them still continued to deposit eggs. 
At another time, I placed a fly, then laying, between 
the face and glass of my watch, where it deposited 
several eggs, although invariably interrupted by the 
revolution of the moment hand. 

“ The eggs of the fly are generally found in clus- 
ters, varying in number from two to ten, upon the 
inner chaff, in which the furrowed side of the grain is 
embedded, and are also occasionally to be seen in 
the interior parts of the flower and chaff The eggs 
are deposited by means of a long slender tube, and 
fixed with a glutinous substance possessed by the fly. 
A thread of glutinous matter frequently connects a 
cluster of eggs with the style, where the larvae seem 
to subsist on the pollen ; in one instance, fifteen eggs 
were numbered on such a thread, several of which 
were suspended on the portion extending between 
the chaff and the style. The fly not only seems thus 
to provide a conveyance from the larvae to the style, 
but also food for their support. The anthers are 
prevented from leaving the style in consequence of 
being gummed down by the glutinous matter of the 
fly, and the pollen thereby detained for the use of the 
larvae, which otherwise would, in part, be carried out 
of the glumes by the expansion of the filaments, — 
known to fanners by the term bloom. In the exertion 
of gumming down the anthers, many of the flies are 
entangled in the vascules of the corolla, and thus 
become a sacrifice to their maternal affection. 

“The larvae are produced from the eggs in the 
course of eight or ten days : they are at first perfectly 
transparent, and assume a yellow colour a few days 
afterwards. They travel not from one floret to an- 
other, and forty-seven have been numbered in one. 
Occasionally there are found in the same floret larvae 



 

and a grain, which is generally shrivelled, as if de- 
prived of nourishment ; and although the pollen may 
furnish the larvae with food in the first instance, 
they soon crowd around the lower part of the germen, 
and there, in all probability, subsist on the matter 
destined to have formed the grain* 



Germination of a prain of wheat, n, the heart of the grain, 
the part devoured by tlie insect, b, ha? of the seed, c, the root, 
d, vessels to convey the nutriment for the root, e, feathers con- 
veying the pollen to fructify the seed. 

Another intelligent observer, Mr. Gorrie, of Anna! 
Gardens, Perthshire, found that by the first of August 
all the maggots leave the ears, and go into the ground 
about the depth of half an inch, where it is probable 
they pass the winter in the pupa state t.” 

, It is interesting to learn that this destructive iu- 

? Loudon’s Mag. of Nat. Hist., Nov. 1829, p. 450. 
f Ibid. September, 1829, p. 324. 





IVansformations of the wheat jSjt. a, the female fljr magnified ; 
ft, lafvse, natural faize, feeding ; c, one magnified. 

sect is providentially prevented from multiplying so 
numerously as it might otherwise do, by at least two 
species of ichneumons, which deposit their eggs in the 
larvae. One of these {Encyrtus imerensy Latr.) is 
very small, black, and shining. The other {Platy- 
gaster Tipul^B, Latr.) is also black, with red feet, and a 
blunt tail. These have been frequently mistaken for 
the wheat-iiy ; but as it has only two wings, while they 
have fouTy the distinction is obvious. In order to 
observe the proceedings of the ichneumons, Kirby 
placed a number of the larvae of the wheat-fly on a 
sheet of white paper, and set a female ichneumon in 
the midst of them. She soon pounced upon her vic- 
tim, and intensely vibrating her antennae, and bending 
herself obliquely, plunged her ovipositor into the body 
of the larva, depositing in it a single egg. She then 
passed to a second, and proceeded in the same man- 
ner, depositing a single egg in each. Nay, when 
she examined one which she found had already been 
pricked, she always rejected it and passed to another *. 
Mr. ShirefF repeated these experiments successfully, 
except that he saw an ichneumon twice prick the 
same maggot, which “ writhed in seeming agony,*' 
and “ it was again stung three times by the same 
fly.*’ He adds, “ the earwig also destroys the larvee, 
three of which I successively presented to an earwig, 
which devoured them immediately f.*’ Mr. Gorrie 
describes these ichneumons as appearing in myriads 
^ Linn, Trans, vt supra* f Loudon’s Mag, ut supra* 





on the outside of the ear ; but as impatient of bright 
light, sheltering themselves from the sun's rays 
among the husks. 

Our English naturalists were for many years of 
opinion, that the insect called the Hessian-fly, so 
destructive to wheat crops in America, belonged to 
the same family (Muscidis) with the common house- 
fly ; and Mr. Markwick, an intelligent naturalist, by 
a series of observations on a British fly (Chlorops 
pumilionis, Meigen) which attacks the stems of 
wheat, created no little alarm among agriculturists. 
Markwick’s fly is less than a fourth of an inch in 
length, with dark shoulders striped with two yellow 
lines, and the maggot is white. He planted roots of 
wheat containing larvae in a small flower- pot, and 
covered them with gauze. Each stem produced one 
of the above flies. The crop of wheat attacked by 
this maggot, though at first it appeared to fail, 
turned out well in consequence of numerous side 
shoots. It is only the early wheat sown in October 
that is affected by it *. 




a. The Hessian fly (^Cecidomyia destructor); b, Markmck fly 
Chlurups pumilionis) magnihed. 

It now appears that Markwick was altogether 
mistaken in identifying his insect with the Hessian 
fly (Cecidomyia destructor y Say), which has been 
accurately described by Mr. Say in the “ Journal of 
the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia” 
* Mag. Nat. Hist. July 1829, p. 292. 






for 1817. It is a little larger than our wheat-fly, 
more slender in the body, has longer legs, and is 
not orange, but black and fulvous. The female 
deposits from one to eight or more eggs on a single 
plant of wheat, between the sheath of the inner leaf 
and the stem nearest the roots ; in which situation, 
with its head towards the root or first joint, the 
young larva passes the winter, eating into the stem, 
and causing it to break 

The devastation committed by the Hessian fly 
seems to have been first observed in 1776, and it 
was erroneously supposed that the insect was con- 
veyed among straw by the Hessian troops from Ger- 
many. It was first noticed in the wheat fields of 
Liong Island, from which it spread gradually at the 
rate of fifteen or twenty miles round ; and in 1789 it 
had advanced two hundred miles from its original 
station in Long Island. Other accounts state that it 
did not travel more than seven miles annually, and 
did little serious damage before 1788. Their num- 
bers seem almost incredible. The houses in the 
infested districts swarmed with them to so great a 
degree, that every vessel was filled with them ; five 
hundred were actually counted on a glass tumbler 
which had been set down for a few minutes with a 
little beer in it. They were observed crossing the 
Delaware river like a cloud ; and even mountains do 
not seem to interrupt their progress f. We can well 
understand, therefore, that so formidable a ravager 
should have caused a very great alarm ; and even our 
own government was in fear lest the insect should be 
imported. The privy council, indeed, sat day after 
day in deep consultation what measures should be 
adopted to ward off the danger of a calamity more to 
be dreaded, as they well knew, than the plague or 
the pestilence. Expresses were sent off in all direc- 
* Mag. Nat. Hist., vol. i. p.22S. 





tions to the officers of the customs at the different out- 
ports respecting the examination of cargoes,-— de- 
spatches were written to the ambassadors in France, 
Austria, Prussia, and America, to gain information, — 
and so important altogether was the business deemed, 
that the minutes of council, and the documents col- 
lected from all quarters, fill upwards of two hundred 
pages 

As in the case of the English wheat-fly, the Ame- 
rican Hessian fly has a formidable enemy in a 
minute four-wingedfly destructor. Say), 

which deposits its eggs in the larvae. Were it not 
for the Ceraphron, indeed, Mr. Say is of opinion that 
the crops of wheat would be totally annihilated in 
the districts where the Hessian fly prevails t. 

Those who have, from popular associations, been 
accustomed to look with disgust at the little white 
larvae common in cheese, well known under the name 
of hoppers, will be somewhat surprised to hear the 
illustrious Swammerdam say, “ 1 can take upon me 
to affirm, that the limbs and other parts of this 
maggot are so uncommon and elegant, and con- 
trived with so much art and design, that it is impos- 
sible not to acknowledge them to be the work ot infi- 
nite power and wisdom, from which nothing is hid, 
and to which nothing is impossible J” But who- 
ever will examine it with care, will find that Swam- 
merdam has not exaggerated the facts. 

The cheese-fly {Piophila Casei, Fallen) is very 
small and black, vidth whitish wings, margined with 
black. It was one of those experimented upon by 
Redi to prove that insects, in the fabric of which so 
much art, order, contrivance, and wisdom appear, 

* Young, Annals of Agric., vol. xi. 
t Journ. of Acad. Philadelph. ut supra, 

J Bibl, Naturae, vol. ii. p. 63. 





could not be the production of chance or rottenness, 
but the work of the same Omnipotent hand which 
created the heavens and the earth. This tiny little 
fly is accordingly furnished with an admirable instru- 
ment for depositing its eggs, in an ovipositor, which 
it can thrust out and extend to a great length, so 
that it can penetrate to a considerable depth into the 
cracks of cheese, where it lays its eggs, 256 in 
number. “ I have seen them myself,’* says Swam- 
merdam, “thrust out their tails for this purpose to an 
amazing length, and by that method bury the eggs 
in the deepest cavities. I found in a few days after- 
wards a number of maggots which had sprung from 
those eggs, perfectly resembling those of the first 
brood that had produced the mother fly, I cannot 
but also take notice that the rottenness of cheese is 
really caused by these maggots ; for they both crum- 
ble the substance of it into small particles and also 
moisten it with some sort of liquid, so that the 
decayed part rapidly spreads. I once observed a 
cheese which I had purposely exposed to this kind of 
fly grow moist in a short time in those parts of it 
where eggs had been deposited, and had afterwards 
been hatched into maggots; though, before, the 
cheese was perfectly sound and entire*.” 

The cheese-hopper is furnished with two homy 
claw-shaped mandibles, which it uses both for dig- 
ging into the cheese and for moving itself, being 
destitute of feet. Its powers of leaping have been 
observed by every one ; and Swammerdam says, “ I 
have seen one, whose length did not exceed the 
fourth of an inch, leap out of a box six inches deep, 
that is, twenty-four times the length of its own 
body: others leap a great deal higher t.** For this 
purpose it first erects itself on its tail, which is fur- 
nished with two wart-like projections, to enable it to 

? Swammerdam, vol. ii. p. 69. f Bibl. Nat., vol. ii. p. 65, 





mamtain its balance. It then bends itself into a 
circle, catches the skin near its tail with its hooked 
mandibles, and after strongly contracting itself from 
a circular into an oblong form, it throws itself with a 
jerk into a straight line, and thus makes the leap. 



Cheese hoppers (^Piophila casein Fallen), the maggot ex- 
tended ; 6, in a leaping position; d, the same magnitied ; e, the 
fly magnified ; /, g, the fly, natural size. 

One very surprising provision is remarkable in 
the breathing-tubes of the cheese maggot, which are 
not placed, as in caterpillars, along the sides, but a 
pair near the head and another pair near the tail. 
Now, when burrowing in the moist cheese, these 
would be apt to be obstructed ; but to prevent this, 
it has the power of bringing over the front pair a 
fold of the skin, breathing in the meanwhile through 
the under pair. Well may Swammerdam denomi- 
nate tliese contrivances “ surprising miracles of God's 
power and wisdom in this abject creature.” 

Like the other destructive insects above men- 
tioned, the multiplication of the cheese fly is checked 
by some insect, whose history, so far as we are 
aware, is not yet known. Swammerdam found 
many of the maggots with other larvae in their 
bodies ; but he did not trace their transformations. 
If they were the larvae of an ichneumon, it must be 
exceedingly minute. 

It must have attracted ^he attention of the most 




incurious, to sec, during the summer, swarms of flies 
crowding about the droppings of cattle, so as almost 
to conceal the nuisance, and presenting instead a 
display of their shining corslets and twinkling 
wings. The object of all this busy bustle is to 
deposit their eggs where their progeny may finil 
abundant food ; and the final cause is obviously both 
to remove the nuisance and to provide abundant 
food for birds and other animals, which prey upon 
flies or their larvae. The same remarks apply with 
no less force to the blow flies which deposit their 
eggs, and in some cases their young, upon carcasses. 
The common house fly ^Musca domeiticd) belongs 
to the first division, the natural food of its larvae 
being horse-dung ; consequently it is always most 
abundant in houses in the vicinity of stables, cu- 
cumber beds, &c., to which, when its numbers 
become annoying, attention should be primarily 
directed, rather than having recourse to fly-waters. 

Another common insect {Bibio horiulanus, 
Meigen) lives in the larva state in cesspools, along with 
rat-tailed larvae, &c. The maggot of the bibio is very 
peculiar in form. They are hatched from eggs with 
shells as hard as Paris plaster, deposited on the adja- 
cent walls, and frequently upon the pupa case which the 
mother has previously quitted. Like the larvjE of the 
crane flies above described, this one moves itself chiefly 
by means of its mandibles, and therefore it can make no 
progress on a piece of smooth glass. Its skin, it may 
be remarked, is so exceedingly hard and tough, that 
it is no easy matter to kill it We have introduced 
this insect here, however, chiefly for the purpose of 
refuting an erroneous popular accusation against 
it, which is supported by the high authorities of 
Ray and Rt$aumur. Our great English naturalist 
calls it the deadliest enemy of the flowers in spring, 
and accuses it of despoiling the gardens and fields of 
* Swammerdam, x. 212. 






^very blossom*. iU^aumur is less decided in his opi- 
nion ; for though he perceived that, not being fur- 
nished with mandibles, they could not, as is supposed, 
gnaw the buds of fruit-trees ; yet, from their being 
found crowded upon flowers and buds, he thinks they 
may suck the juices of these, and thus cause them to 
wither f. Wc are satisfied, by repeated observation, 
that the fly only uses its sucker {havMellum) for sip- 
ping the honey of flowers, or the gum with which 
the opening bud is usually covered. The damage 
of which it is accused is more probably done by 
cateri)illars, snails, or other night-feeding insects, 
which, not being seen by day, the fly is blamed for 
what it is entirely innocent ofj. 



Transformations of Bihio hortulanus^ Meigen. a* the ogg 
inagnififed ; h, the same when Imtched ; c, d, the maggot and 
pupa magnified ; e, /, the same, natural size ; ji, the fly. 

In the case of the blow-flies, Linnaeus tells us that 
the larvae of three females of Musca vomitoria will 
devour the carcase of a horse as quickly as would 
a lion ; and we are not indisposed to take this 

* Rsai Hist. Insect, Pref, p. xi., + Reaumur, v, 56. 

1 J. R. 


2 A 2 






literally, when we know that one mother of an allied 
species {M, carnaria) produces about 20,000, and 
that they have been proved by Redi to increase in 
weight two-hundred-fold within twenty-four hours. 
The most extraordinary fact, illustrative of the voracity 
of these maggots which we have met with, is the 
following, given by Kirby and Spence, from “ Bell's 
Weekly Messenger — 

“ On Thursday, June 25th, died at Asbornby, 
Lincolnshire, John Page, a pauper belonging to 
Silk-Willoughby, under circumstances truly singular. 
He being of a restless disposition, and not choosing 
to stay in the parish work-house, was in the habit of 
strolling about the neighbouring villages, subsisting on 
the pittance obtained from door to door : the support 
he usually received from the benevolent was bread and 
meat ; and after satisfying the cravings of nature, it 
was his custom to deposit the surplus provision, par- 
ticularly the meat, betwixt his shirt and skin. Hav- 
ing a considerable portion of this provision in store, 
so deposited, he was taken rather unwell, and laid 
himself down in a field, in the parish of Scredington ; 
when, from the heat of the season at that time, the 
meat speedily became putrid, and was of course 
struck by the flies : these not only proceeded to 
devour the inanimate pieces of flesh, but also literally 
to prey upon the living substance ; and when the 
wretched man was accidentally found by some of the 
inhabitants, he was so eaten by the maggots that his 
death seemed inevitable. After clearing away, as 
well as they were able, these shocking vermin, those 
who found Page conveyed him to Asbornby, and a 
surgeon was immediately procured, who declared that 
his body was in such a state, that dressing it must be 
little short of instantaneous death ; and, in fact, the 
man did survive the operation but a few hours. 
When first found, and again when examined by the 





surgeon, he presented a sight loathsome in the ex* 
treme ; white maggots of enormous size were crawl- 
ing in and upon his body, which they had most 
shockingly mangled, and the removing of the exter- 
nal ones served only to render the sight more horrid.” 
Kirby adds, “ in passing through this parish last 
spring,. I inquired of the mail-coachman whether he 
had heard this story ; and he said the fact was well 
known*.” The year in which this remarkable cir- 
cumstance occurred is not mentioned. 

The importance of the insects just mentioned, in 
removing with great rapidity what might otherwise 
prove nuisances of considerable magnitude, naturally 
leads us to notice another sort of larva, no less useful 
in diminishing the numbers of the plant-lice (^Aphides) 
which do so much damage to cultivated vegetables. 
We do this also the more readily, that these very 
insects, which are so beneficial to the husbandmau 
and the gardener, are often erroneously accused of 
being themselves the cause of the mischief. A corre- 
spondent of the Natural History Magazine, for exam- 
ple, says, “ the lady-bird is remarkably abundant this 
season. The shriraji (larva) of this insect destroys 
both turnips and peas in many parts of England t-*’ 
The truth is, however, that all the species of lady- 
birds (CoccinellidfPy Latr.), both in the larva and the 
perfect state, feed exclusively on aphides, and never 
touch vegetable substances. The eggs are usually 
placed in a group of twenty or more upon a leaf, 
where aphides a^und; and when the young are 
hatched they find themselves in the midst of their 
prey. There are a considerable number of species of 
this family (Mr. Stephens enumerates fifty) ; but the 
most common, perhaps, is the seven- spotted lady- 
bird (Coccinella septempunctata)y whose larva is of 

? Intr.1. 140, and note. f Mag. of Nat. Htst. i. 191. 




oonsiderabie size, and, of course, when abundant, 
must destroy a vast number of aphides. 



Transformations of the lady-bird {Coccinella ^-punctata., 
Linn.) a, the eggs, b, the larva, c, the pupa, d, the beetle, 
e, the same flying. /, Coucinella 20-punctata, Linn., flying. 


The mai^gots of many species of a beautiful femily 
(^Syrphid<s, Leach) of two-winged flies are also 
voracious devourers of the aphides. These larvee are 
of a tapering form, and they can contract or lengthen 
their bodies to a considerable extent ; while they have 
a retractile instrument, armed with three prongs like 
a trident, with which they transfix their helpless and 
hapless victims. “ When disposed to feed,” says 
Kirby, “ he fixes himself by his tail, and being blind, 
gropes about on every side, as the Cyclops did for 
Ulysses and his companions, till he touches one, 
which he immediately transfixes with his trident. 




elevates into the air, that he may not be disturbed with 
its struggles, and soon devours. The havoc which 
these grubs make amongst the aphides is astonish- 
ing. It was but last week that 1 observed the top 
of every young shoot of the currant-trees in my gar- 
den curled up by myriads of these insects. On ex- 
amining them this day, not an individual remained ; 
but beneath each leaf are three or four full-fed larvae of 
aphidivorous flies, surrounded with heaps of the skins 
of the slain, the trophies of their successful warfare 
The larvae of the lace-winged flies {HemerohidtEj 
Leach) are even more destructive to the aphides 
than either of the preceding ; insomuch that Reaumur 
was induced to call them the lions of the aphides. 
The mandibles of the larva of Hemerobius are some- 
what crescent-shaped, and, like those of the ant-lion, 
are hollow, by means of which they suck the juices 
of their victims. These are rarely so numerous as 
the two preceding families, but they make up for 
their fewness in the voracity with which they devour 
the little destroyers of our vegetables. 

* Intr. i. 264. 




Meclianiim of luspendin^ Chrysalldtis. 


A SAILOR would find it no easy process to cut for 
himself a suit of clothes out of a set sail, holding, the 
Awhile, only by the portion that he Was cutting. 
This is an operation which is performed every day by 
the tent-making caterpillars^. Difficult, however, 
as this may be considered to be, it appears as nothing 
when compared with another problem performed by 
a different family of caterpillars. “ Country fellows, 
for a prize,” says Kirby, “ sometimes amuse the 
assembled inhabitants of a village by running races 
in sacks : take one of the most active and adroit of 
these, bind him hand and foot, suspend him by the 
bottom of his sack, head downwards, to the branch 
of a lofty tree ; make an opening in one side of the 
sack, and set him to extricate himself from it, to de- 
taieh it from its hold, and suspend himself by his feet 
in its place. Though endowed with the suppleness 
of an Indian juggler, and promised his sack full of 
gold for a reward, you would set him an absolute 
impossibility; yet this is what our caterpillars, in- 
structed by a beneficent Creator, easily perform f.*’ 
The manner in which this is effected we shall now 
describe. 

A caterpillar, when about to change into a chry- 
* See Insect Architecture; p. 223. f Intr. iii. 209. 





salis, usually steals away from the plant on which it 
has been feeding, to find some secluded corner where 
it may undergo its transformation unmolested ; as if 
it were previously aware that it would no longer be 
able to escape from its enemies. Those which we 
shall first notice climb up the highest objects near 
them, such as walls, gates, palings, and trees, under 
the projections of which they think they may begin 
their operations in safety. Thus we once found a ca- 
terpillar of the small tortoiseshell butterfly upon the 
branch of a fir-tree, in Epping Forest, from ten to 
twelve feet above its native patch of nettles below ; 
and we have seen the cabbage butterfly under the 
lintel of a window on the third story*. 

Having thus selected a safe spot, the caterpillar 
begins, in order to attach itself securely, to weave a 
mooring of silk, the structure of which is well worthy 
of notice. The threads of which this is composed are 
so fine, that they are not easily distinguished ; and 
we recollect being not a little astonished at seeing a 
chrysalis of the admirable butterfly {Vanessa Ata- 
lanta) hanging within an inverted glass tumbler, 
where we had confined it, the silk being transparent, 
and all but invisible. It is necessary, therefore, in 
order to see it distinctly, to confine the caterpillars 
within a black box or other vessel. The silk threads 
are not drawn tight along, so as to be parallel with 
the surface, but are formed into a sort of projecting 
button, the caterpillar, for this purpose, alternately 
raising and depressing its head over the spot so as to 
draw out the threads, in the same way as a tambour- 
ing needle is worked in making a dot upon muslin : 
the base is accordingly made the broadest part, and 
the centre the most projecting, for a reason which 
will immediately appear. 

When it has flnished this little button of silk 

? J.R. 





(i, Caterpillar of Vanessa Antiopa weaving its button of silk. 
h, suspended by its hinder pro-legs irom the silk button . e, bend- 
ing in order to spUt the old skin. 

which is thickly interlaced and strongs, it turns round 
to examine it with its hinder pair of pro-legs ; and if 
it judges it to be sufficiently firm, it thrusts these 
among the meshes, taking secure hold with the nu- 
merous hooks with which these are fringed*, and 
swings itself fearlessly into the air, hanging with its 
head downwards. Ail this seems easy enough of 
perfbrmance, but it is only preliminary ; for it has 
still to throw off its skin, together with the hooks by 
which it is suspended, and this without losing its 
hold. The old skin is rent by the forcible bending 
round of the upper part of the body, which pushes 
through some of the angular projections of the chry- 
salis — a tedious and probably a painful operation, in 
See Insect Architecture^ p. 307, right hand figure. 





which it is often engaged the greater part of a day, 
and sometimes two, according to its strength. 'When 
the first rent is made, however, the included chrysalis 
soon wedges itself through the breach, the lower por- 
tion swelling out greatly more than the upper, so as 
to form an inverted but somewhat irregular cone. 
The included insect continuing its laborious exertions, 
by successively contracting and dilating the rings of its 
body, pushes off the now rent skin by degrees from the 
head towards the tail, as the sack-racers mentioned 
by Kirby would disengage themselves from the sacks 
in which they were inclosed, or as one would roll 
down a stocking from the leg. There are two cir- 
cumstances worthy of notice in this process : the 
position of the insect in hanging with its head down- 
wards, throws a greater portion of the fluids of the 
body towards the head, by means of their weight, 
which swell out the part that splits ; and also pushes 
back the old skin, while the sloughing skin is pre- 
vented from resiliating by a series of pegs, which act 
like the toothed rack of a sluice-gate. The old skin, 
being by these means pushed towards the tail, is of 
course compressed into several folds, which in some 
degree prevent the extension of the rent, and serve 
to keep the chrysalis from falling ; for being now 
detached from the skin, it has no hold upon the 
meshes of the silk button, and is, in fact, at some 
distance from it. 

This, then, is the part of the process where the 
nicety of the mechanism is most worthy of admira- 
tion ; for the hooks by which the insect i^ in the first 
instance suspended from the meshes of the silk are 
sloughed off, together with the skin, the grasp of 
whose folds becomes then the only support of the 
chrysalis. But this chrysalis, now deprived of feet, 
and some distance from the suspensory cordage of silk, 
has still to reach this, fix itself there, and cast off the 





sloughed skin altogether. This operation causes, says 
Bonnet, a spectator to tremble for the consequences, 
for every movement seems to render its iall almoK;^^ 
certain. It is, however, provided with means which 
answer the same purpose as hands, to enable it to 
climb ; it can elongate and contract at pleasure the 
rings of its body. It accordingly, with two con- 
tiguous rings, lays hold, as with a pair of pincers, of 
the portion of the sloughed skin nearest the head ; and 
elongating the rings beyond this, seizes upon a more 
distant portion, while it lets go the first. Repeating 
this process several times, it at length arrives at the 
silk button. 



pupa. 

The tail of a chrysalis, to an ordinary observer, 
would appear smooth, and quite unfitted for being 


Suspension op PuPifl. 





fixed to the silk in such a manner as to sustain its 
weight ; but careful examination discovers that it has 
been furnished with an efficient apparatus ibr this 
purpose, in a number of very minute hooks, similar 
to those of the pro-legs which have been sloughed off. 
Feeling about then with its tail for the silk, it insinu' 
ales these hooks among the meshes, and being no 
longer in danger of falling, it can swing secure, 
as it had previously done in the caterpillar state. 

Reaumur has, however, seen some chrysalides 
fall before they completed the process, in conse- 
quence, as he thinks, of having spun too slight a 
mesh-work of silk. In order to ascertain the cor- 
rectness of this inference, we tried a series of experi- 
ments upon a considerable number of a brood of the 
peacock butterfly {Vanessa lo), the same upon which 
Reaumur made his observations. We allowed some 
to spin only half the usual portion, and removed them 
to another station. Here they eagerly recommenced 
the task, and, if left unmolested, never fell from the 
spot; but if previously removed a second time, they 
seldom succeeded in completing the process in the 
usual way. They did not, indeed, in such cases, 
attempt spinning an imperfect silken suspensory; but 
abandoning in despair what they felt themselves in- 
capable of performing, they crept down to the bottom 
of the nurse box, and cast their skins without having 
anything to which they could attach themselves*. 

When the hooks of a chrysalis have been properly 
fixed among the meshes, it remains suspended con- 
tiguous to the skin which it has just cast ; but not 
liking the neighbourhood of its now useless spoil, it 
sets itself to get rid of it. For this purpose it con- 
torts itself in various ways, sometimes assuming a 
figure similar to an S, so that it may push against 
* J. R, 






the spines of the old skin ; ancl then giving itself a 
sudden jerk, it spins itself rapidly round a dozen or 
twenty times. Rt^aumur says that this gyration 
usually throws off the slough, in consequence of its 
being farther from the centre of motion, and there- 
fore exposed to a greater centrifugal force ; but un- 
luckily for this refined philosophy, it is not the silk 
button, but the chrysalis which spins round, and con- 
sequently the old skin does not twirl at all, and only 
moves like a pendulum ; — ^the best method, evidently, 
of disengaging the hooks it hangs by. Besides, the 
threads of the silk are not broken by the gyration, as 
Reaumur, followed by Kirby and Spence, asserts ; 
otherwise the weight of the chrysalis would to a cer- 
tainty break its threads, more easily than the sup- 
posed centrifugal force would break those which 
suspend the slough. Repeated observation has satis- 
fied us, therefore, that the twirling of the chrysalis is 
both for the purpose of disengaging the old skin and 
strengthening its own hold*. Bonnet may be right 
or wrong in thinking the stimulus of the spines of the 
old skin is the cause of the twirling : we have ob- 
served that the insects which change into chrysalides. 



a, 6, front and side view of chrysalides of Vanessa urticee sus- 
pended by their anal hooks, c, anal hooks magnified, d, old 
skin fallen off. 


* J. R. 






after being removed from their suspensories, also roll 
about and manifest great uneasiness* 

But this is only one mode by which chrysalides 
are suspended ; for nature, rich in variety, has taught 
others to employ a different mechanism, and consi- 
derably more complicated, not only fixing themselves 
by the tail, but throwing around their body a girdle 
of silk, which binds it firmly to the spot selected, and 
frequently in a horizontal position. Amongst those, 
the caterpillars of the pretty butterflies called by col- 
lectors hairstreaks (ThecleBy Fabr.), are remarkable, 
both for their resemblance in shape to the common 
woodlouse (Oniscus), and for their singular proceed- 
ings. In order to construct a silken cincture around the 
middle of its body, after it has secured itself at the tail, 
the Theda draws back its head, and pushing out its 
spinneret on one side, forms an arched thread by pass- 
ing it over to the other side. It then insinuates its 
head under this thread, and pressing the fore part of its 
body down as closely as possible, it contrives to place 
the girth over its middle. This circumstance is the more 
remarkable when it is considered that the silk is so 
fine as scarcely to be distinguishable to the eye, and 
that the back of the caterpillar over which it has to pass 
is thickly bestudded with spines. Th^ caterpillars, in- 
deed, of this whole family (LyccBncdidm, Leach), 
which includes our splendid blue and copper butter- 
flies, seem to follow the same process, repeating it 
from thirty to fifty times, in order to strengthen the 
band. As the caterpillars of the family just men- 
tioned are but seldom found, those who are desirous 
of observing the formation of the cincture of a chry- 
salis may readily gratify their curiosity by watching 
a brood of any of the native white butterflies, as 
those of the cabbage or of the hawthorn (Pieris 
Crateegiy Stephens). A caterpillar of this kind, 
* Bonnet; CEuvreS, vol. ii., p. 109. 

2 B 2 



 


however, though it forms a silken suspensory girth 
similar to the LyccRnmdtB^ constructs it in a different 
manner. Instead of retracting its head, it takes 
advantage of its great pliability, and bending itself 
nearly double, fixes a thread, carrying it over to the 
other side simply by turning its head. It repeats 
this process a great number of times, till it has 
formed a packet of threads sufficient for its cincture. 
It then stretches its head out into a right line with 
the body, and remains in this position till it casts its 
skin. The usual position of the chrysalides belong- 
ing to the family {Papilionidm^ Leach) in question, 
is horizontal ; but they frequently also hang vertically, 
and at different angles. We possess one of the large 
garden white butterfly {Pontia BrassictB)^ which 
was bound horizontally on the upper surface of a 
leaf of the abele tree (Populus alba)y being laid, and 
not hung, as is almost the invariable practice of the 
species. The leaf, moreover, is drawn together in 



a, Caterpillar of the black-veined white butterfly spinning its 
gUKpensory band. 6, chrysalis horizontally bound to a branch. 
c, we butterfly (^Pieris Cratceffi)^ siualler than in nature. 




the manner of the leaf-rollers, another most unusual 
and remarkable circumstance 

Another caterpillar of the same family, that of 
the swallow-tailed butterfly (Papilio Machadn^ 
liiNN.), one of our finest but local native insects, 
having a body less pliable than the preceding, has 
recourse to a still different method of forming a 
cincture. The proceedings of this beautiful cater- 
pillar, distinguished by two retractile horns, like 
those of a snail, may be illustrated by the mode in 
which a skein of silk is wound from the hand. The 
insect first attaches the end of his thread to the spot 
selected for hanging up the chrysalis, such as the 
bend of a branch of fennel or wild carrot, on which he 
has been feeding ; and extends it outwards by the 
hooks on his claws, by whicih means he keeps it 
stretched till he fixes it on the other side, forming a 



Caterpillar of the swallow-tailed butterfly, weaving its sus- 
pensory cincture, ft, . the caterpillar suspended for its change, 
c, the chrysalis sospeaded in a similar manner. 


* J. R. 




loop about twice the diameter of his body. He re- 
peats this process successively till he has spun forty, 
sixty, or as many threads as he deems strong enough 
for his cincture ; and then throwing it over his head 
towards the middle of his body, he proceeds to dis* 
encumber himself of his old skin. 

As the numerous threads composing the cincture 
are not glued together, but remain separate, it some- 
time happens that they slip, in whole or in part, from 
the claws of the caterpillar ; and Rt$aumur had one 
which was foiled in all its efforts to repair such an 
accident. It did not, indeed, make any attempt to 
spin a fresh cincture, probably from its materials 
being exhausted or from want of strength ; so that 
when it could not recover the fallen and entangled 
threads, it collected a few of them, suspended in 
which it cast its skin, but they, being too weak to sus- 
tain it, gave way, and it fell and perished *. 

We will not revert in this place to the varied con- 
trivances of those insects which construct coverings 
either of silk or other materials for inclosing their 
pupae, such as the silk worm, the puss-moth cater- 
pillar, the tent-makers, &c. ; but there is one family 
whose proceedings are so singular that they well 
merit investigation. We refer to the numerous spe- 
cies of what are indefinitely termed common flies, 
(Muscidai), and some families allied to them. Un- 
like most other larvae, these never cast their skins, 
not even when they change into pupae. The mag- 
got of the common blow-fly (Musca vomitorid)^ for 
example, when about to undergo its transformation, 
quits the carcase where it has been feeding, and bur- 
rows for an inch or two into the first soft earth it can 
meet with. Here it draws in its body into a shorter 
compass, and the soft skin being thus condensed, 


* Mem. 8ur les lasecte?, vob. i. ix« 






it acquires in thickness what it loses in extension : its 
moisture, also, disappearing by evaporation, or more 
probably by internal absorption, it becomes hard and 
tough, like thin parchment, and of a dull reddish- 
brown colour. The form is now that of an oblong 
ball ; and it was from that circumstance termed an egg 
by Redi and other early naturalists, — a term at which 
Swammerdam takes great offence in this instance. 
The various changes undergone by the included insect 
were traced from hour to hour by Reaumur with his 
usual patience and accuracy: but few of the minute 
circumstances detailed by him would probably interest 
our readers; except that in casting its mandibles, 
which are henceforth useless, they are not thrown off 
on the outside of the case, but remain on the inside. 

Were such an extraordinary transformation as this 
to happen to one of the larger animals, it would be 
held forth as altogether miraculous. Were a lion or 
an elephant, for example, to coil itself up into a ball, 
compressing its skin into twice the thickness and half 
the extent, while it remained uniform in shape and 
without joinings or openings ; and, at the same time, 
were it entirely to separate its whole body from this 
skin, and lie within it, as a kernel does in a nut, or a 
chick in an egg, throwing off its now useless tusks 
into a corner, — and then, after a space, should it 
acquire wings, break through the envelope, and take 
its flight through the air, — there would be no bounds 
to our admiration. Yet the very same circumstances 
in miniature take place every day during summer, 
almost under the eye of every individual, in the case 
of the blow fly, without attracting the aticntion of one 
person in a million. 

The maggots of the genus of two-winged flies 
(Syrphidee) mentioned above as feeding voraciously 
on aphides, do not, like those of the blow fly, burrow 
in the earth, but attach themselves to a leaf or a 




branch. Bein^ furnished with a species of adhesive 
gluten, a maggot of this sort applies a portion of this 
with its mouth to the spot which it has selected fbr 
its transformation, and, pressing its body upon it, 
becomes immoveably glued down there. When thus 
securely fixed, it contracts and shortens its body 
similarly to the maggot of the blow-fly ; but, instead of 
becoming like that, uniformly oblong, the head swells 
out and the tail becomes slender, till it terminates in 
a point, just reversing the previous form of the mag- 
got, which is rounded at the tail and pointed at the 
head. When the change is completed, indeed, it 
is a good deal in the form of one of Prince Rupert’s 
glass drops. When we first met with these pup», in* 
deed, we concluded they were galls, and were not a 
little surprised to see large wasp-looking flies issue 
from them ; but as they may be found in considerable 
abundance, it becomes easy to gratify curiosity and 
to confirm the facts just stated. It may not be out of 
place to remark, that several species of ichneumon 
b 



tt, Fnpa of blow fly. h, the same magnified, c, head of pupa- 
rium opened to shew the cast mandibles, dt, pupa.of syrphut* 






flies make reprisals upon them for their destruction of 
the helpless aphides. Swammerdam observed eight 
of these parasites issue from one pupa of a Syrphus^ 

The lady-birds (Coccinellidee) glue their pupae to 
leaves in much the same manner with the flies just 
mentioned : but their skin, instead of becoming smooth, 
wrinkles up by the shortening of the body of the 
grub ; because it is not so soft and pliable, and 
cannot, therefore, be compressed. The interior, how- 
ever, is smooth t. 

Those insects which live during their first stages 
in the water, exhibit a very different economy when 
they change from larvae into nymphs, as may be 
exemplified in the May-flies (Ephemeridas) and the 
dragon-flies (Libellulina). But as these will require to 
be described in a future page, we shall content our- 
selves at present with an account of an interesting 
but minute species of tipulidan gnat {Corethra plu~ 
micornisy Meigen), of a straw colour, whose history 
was first given by Reaumur and De Geer. The 
latter was induced, from the beautiful transparency 
of the larva, to name it Tipvla cristallina , — a qua- 
lity which renders it, its size being also very minute, 
rather difficult to discover : it is, however, a good 
subject for microscopical observations. Taking ad- 
vantage of the recent improvements in microscopes. 
Dr. Goring has accordingly given coloured figures 
both of the larva and pupa, as observed by him, in 
which he has added a few minute details | that are 
not in the otherwise very accurate figures of Reau- 
mur. 

The larva is rather less than a quarter of an inch 
long, and somewhat resembles in form those of the 
same family, particularly in the parts about the head, 

* Part ii., p. 99. t J. R. 

X Goring and Pritchard’s Nat. Hist., No. 1 ; and Reaumur, vol. 
V., mem. 1. 


 


the mandibles being horny, jointed, and capable of 
uniting into one pointed borer. The tail is furnished 
with plumed bristles, which appear to serve the pur- 
pose of fins. The nearer this crystalline larva is to 
its transformation, the more distinctly may be seen 
four kidney-shaped transparent bodies, of a brown 
colour, a pair on the fourth ring from the tail, and 
another pair at the shoulders. The former, perhaps, 
serve to inclose the tail fins of the pupa ; the latter 
the horns of the pupa, which again encase the an- 
tenna of the gnat ; but in another species (fiorethra 
culiciformis) De Geer supposed these to be respi- 
ratory organs. We are not aware that this larva has 
been actually seen to cast its skin, but there can be 
no doubt of the fact, for Rt^aumur found exuviae at 
the bottom of the glasses where he kept them* ; and 
we are not, consequently, authorized to assert that its 
transformation is “ not effected, as in other insects, 
by casting the outer skin, but by an actual conver- 
ijiou of' one form of matter into another We 
watched above a hundred of them without being so 
fortunate as to see their transformation into pupse, 
though we more than once observed the emergence 
of the fly. 

Our chief reason, however, for introducing it here, 
is to shew tlie mode in which the pupa is suspended, 
or rather buoyed up, in the water, by means of its 
foliated tail and the shape of its body, which is 
bulged out above, and narrowed as it approaches the 
lower extremity. It is, besides, very lively in the 
pupa state, and jerks about with great agility, but 
usually keeps close to the surface of the water, so as 
to project its horns or antenn® cases above it. In 
the figures we have endeavoured to combine the 
details of Reaumur and Dr. Goring. 

* Reaumur, vol. v., p. 41-2. 

•f Goring and Pritchard, Nat. Hist., No, 1, p.23. 




a a, larva of Corethra plumicornis magfnified. h, theraan- 
dibles and palpi, c, the respiratory fins, d, the pupa ma^rnified. 
e, pupa, natural size, f, larva, natural size, the female fly. 
A, the male fly. 


We possess a small aquatic pupa which is furnished 
at the tail with four horny hooks resembling* the 
prickles on the stem of a rose-tree, and evidently 
intended as suspensory appendages. It was found 
hanging to a deal board, which had been immersed 
in running water, and seems from its form to be the 
pupa of a moth (fiydrocampa ?)*. 


* J.R. 






Form and Structure of Pupa, 


The figures delineated in the preceding chapter shew 
how different in form many pupae are, both from 
their larvae and from the insects to be afterwards 
evolved from them, — as different, indeed, as the form 
of a bud from the seedling tree, or from the leaf, 
branch, or blossom, which is destined to shoot from it. 
Pupae, as we formerly remarked, have as striking an 
analogy to the buds of plants, as eggs have to seeds ; 
— and this is the more necessary to be insisted on, 
that their nature .has been grossly misrepresented 
even by authors of eminence, and, in other matters, of 
unquestionable accuracy. The term Metamorphosis^ 
so long applied to the various stages of insect life, 
has been one of the chief means of propagating the 
erroneous views in question, inasmuch as it implies 
a supernatural change like those described in the 
poetical fables of Ovid. The term Traiirformation, 
though not perhaps free from a similar implication, 
is much less strong and less likely to mislead. 

That our objection does not originate in hypercri- 
tical nicety, but is of no little importance with regard 
to the accurate knowledge of the history of insects, 
could be proved by reference to many well-known 
works of natural history; but we shall limit our 
illustrations to one or two of those strange fancies 
which have obscured and perplexed this branch of 
our subject. 

We shall begin with the illustrious Harvey, — the 
discoverer of the circulation of the blood, — ^who, in 





his exercitations on the generation of animals, says — 
“ There are two ways in which we observe one thing 
to be made out of another (as out of matter), both 
in art and nature, especially in the generation of 
animals: one is, when a thing is made out of ano- 
ther already in being, as a bed out of wood, and 
a statue out of a stone ; when, for example, all 
the materials of the workmanship exist before the 
workman begins the work or attempts to give it any 
form. The other way is, when the stuff receives both 
being and form at the same time. As, therefore, the 
works of art are performed two ways ; the one by the 
workman’s dividing, cutting, and paring away the 
matter prepared for those operations, so as to leave 
behind, like a statuary, the figure of the thing he 
intends to make : the other, by the workman’s adding 
and moulding, as well as paring away, the materials, 
and at the same time tempering the matter itself, so 
as to produce, like a potter, the figure ; which, for 
this reason, may be said to be made, rather than 
formed; — in the same manner it happens in the 
generation of animals ; some of which are formed and 
transfigured out of matter already digested and in- 
creased for this purpose, all the parts springing out 
together distinctly by a kind of metamorphosis, and 
thus forming a perfect animal, while other animals 
are made piece by piece.” 

He proceeds to tell us, that the generation of insects 
is performed after the first manner; the egg, by 
metamorphosis, producing the worm ; or matter in a 
state of putrefaction, when it becomes too dry or too 
moist, producing the primary rudiments ; and these 
again, by metamorphosis, a caterpillar, which, when 
grown to its full size, is metamorphosed into an aurelia 
{pupa)y a butterfly, or a common fly. “ Bees,” he 
subjoins, “ wasps, hornets, or butterflies, and whatever 




Other animals are generated by metamorphosis from a 
creeping insect, are said to be the offspring of chance, 
and therefore never to keep up their species. But 
the lion or cock are never produced spontaneously or 
by chance. In the generation by metamorphosis, 
animals are fashioned as it were by the impression of 
a seal, or framed in a curious mould, all the matter 
of which they consist being transformed 

Goedart, a later naturalist of eminence, both falls 
into the foolish fancy of supposing that the form of 
the human face can be traced in the chrysalis, of 
which he has actually given a figure in his plates, 
as Rtjaumur has done after him ; and also tells us, 
“ that wherever the legs are situated in the cater- 
pillar, there is placed the back of the insect which is 
to arise by transmutation; and, on the contrary, 
where the back of the caterpillar was, there are the 
legs in the insect to be produced from it. This 
metamorphosis,” he adds, “ is performed in a short 
space of time, so that it may be distinctly seen ; be- 
cause, immediately after shedding its skin, this change 
appears to the eyet-’’ 

Had this most absurd and untrue doctrine passed 
into oblivion, or become obsolete, we should have 
passed it by in silence ; but as, like many of the 
theories of former *ages, it often meets us even in 
modern books J, where we might least expect to find 
it, we deemed it proper to give it in the language of 
two of its most eminent advocates, which Swammer- 
dam justly says contains almost as many errors as 
words. The best method of opposing and over- 
turning error being the simple explanation of the 
truth, we snaii proceed to describe the form and 

* Harvey, de General. Anim., Exercit. xlv. 
f De Insectis, Exp. 77. 

* Sec our quotation from Goring and Pritchard; p. 286. 





structure of pupas, rather than stop to refiite cir- 
cumstantially the preceding theory of Harvey and 
Goedart. 

In the pupa state, then, we may remark, that the 
legs, wings, and other external appendages of the 
insect, are, in the greater number of instances, closely 
folded up and enveloped by an external covering, 
usually of a membranous structure, and differing 
considerably both from the skin of the larva and from 
that of the perfect insect. It is as different, indeed, 
as the winter envelope of the bud of a tree is from 
the bark or from the cuticle of a leaf. The angular 
forms exhibited in some chrysalides, are for the pur- 
pose of encasing particular limbs, &c. of the insect 
which Providence has not seen meet to fold down 
smoothly to the body. The spines, hooks, and hairs, 
again, which are also of occasional occurrence, and 
which Goedart strangely enough mistook for feet*, 
are manifestly for aiding the animal in casting its old 
skin, as has been explained in a preceding page; 
while the grooves, ridges, and other markings, are 
the indications of the various members of the insects 
folded up, or otherwise disposed under them. 

As we have shown all the parts of the perfect insect 
contained in the caterpillar, so these can be much 
more easily exhibited in the pupa, particularly when 
near its final change ; for in more early periods the 
substance is so soft and pulpy — almost fluid indeed 
— that it would be next to impossible to develop 
them artificially. In some pupae the parts can even 
be seen through the membranous envelope, which in 
other cases requires, for this purpose, to be removed. 
In order to exhibit this, we shall select a few instances 
in which the facts may be readily verified, by those 
who will take the trouble of breeding the insects. 

The first we shall advert to is that of the chame- 
* Goedart, de Insectis, 77. 



leon fly {Stratiomys chameleori), whose singular 
larva we formerly described When this draws near 
the period of its transformation, it leaves the water, 
betaking itself to the adjacent bank, or to the plants 
which float on the water, creeping up so as to leave 
only a part of its tail submersed. In this position 
it remains, contracting itself by degrees in a manner 
scarcely perceivable, and losing all power of loco- 
motion. The internal portion of the tail at the same 
time separates gradually and insensibly from the 
exterior skin, becoming greatly contracted ; and, ga- 
thering into three or four curvatures, the extremity is 
thereby left empty. Into this space the air penetrates 
and soon fills the place previously occupied by the 
body, which is now contracted to one-third of its 
former size. When the air is prevented by too much 




A, Pupa of diameleon fly, with the lid of the pnpariuxn raised. 
B, the same maRiiifled, and the puparium laid open to shew the 
embryo fly. C, tlie embryo fly magfnified : — a a, antennae ; b 6, 
the eyes; c, sucker; d d, first pair of leffs ; <? e, second pair; 
//, the wings folded up ; gh u rings of the body j A A, breathing- 
tubes. 





moisture from entering and distending the «kin, it 
shrivels up; but this occurs seldom. If the old skin, 
now become detached and forming a tubular enve- 
lope, be cut open, the pupa will be brought into view, 
exhibiting the parts of the future fly neatly folded 
down upon the body, as may be seen in the figure. 

This is one of the larvae which Swammerdam ob- 
served to cast, along with its external skin, the lining 
of the intestines, and breathing-tubes likewise, which, 
he remarks, “ is very singular, and amazingly shows 
the miracles of God, teaching at the same time how 
the former body is entirely cast off and renewed 
The pupa, when exposed in the preceding manner, is 
of a bright green colour, interspersed with white 
transparent particles, and the spiracles of the wind- 
pipe glittering like pearls. 

When the pupa of the lappit moth {Gastropacha 
quercifolia) is disengaged from the cocoon, it has 
much the appearance of an Egyi^tian mummy, or an 
infant in the old-fashioned swaddling bands. The 
feet are crossed over the breast, and folded closely 
down nearly in the same manner as in the instance 
of the chameleon fly just mentioned ; but the wings 
are compressed into a very small compass. This 
appears the more remarkable as the wings of the 
moth are large and conspicuous, and so like the 
withered leaf of an oak, both in form and colour, that 
the insect would readily impose upon a careless 
observer. It is, we believe, the only British example 
of what have been popularly termed leaf insects, — 
which have given origin to the fanciful and untenable 
theory of intentional deception on the part of Provi- 
dence. It was by opening one of these pupae that 
R(?aumur first discovered the various sheaths appro- 
priated to the feet, the antennae, and the wings ; the 
sheath of the suck^ (haustellum) being wanting, as it 
* Bibl. Nat. vol. ii. p. 54. 

 


is obsolescent in the moth. It is furnished, however, 
with a peculiar horn or projection on the forehead, 
—the palpi — which the theorists to whom we have 
alluded might term its leaf stalk. 



a. Pupa of lappit moth, under side of the moth, with its 

feet folded up. c, side view of the same. 

We can demonstrate the same position still more 
obviously in the chrysalis of a butterfly, — ^for ex- 
ample, in that of the peacock {Vanessa Jo), whose ca- 
terpillars feed on the nettle. This chrysalis is an- 
gular like the others of the genus, — the two termi- 
nating angles encasing the eyes, and the four lateral 
ones the marginal folds of the wings, the contour of 
which is disposed on what may be called the shoulder 
of the chrysalis (Ptero-theca, Kirby). The legs, an- 
tennae, and sucker, are folded down longitudinally 
upon the breast, very similarly to what occurs in the 
moth just described. When the membranous cover- 
ing, which is thinner but more firm and elastic than 
Indian paper, has been carefully removed, — selecting 
for this operation an advanced period of the chrysalis, 
— the several members of the butterfly may be seen 



folded up in the manner we have here indicated. 
The wings are still covered with moisture, so that the 
powdery down which clothes them is scarcely visible, 
and they have not yet assumed their beautiful colours 
and elegant markings, but are of a dusky ash-grey. 
The legs, however, are already so firm that the insect 
moves them about, and also coils up its sucker, and 
plays its antennae. It is worthy of remark, that the 




a, under side of the clirjsalis of the peacock butterfly. the 
wines and antennae traced out from the same, c, the perfect in* 
sect t Vanessa lo) fully developed* 



ixtecabmi^e which i^overs the more prominentl|c exposed 
parts, such as the legs, is considerably thicker than the 
other portions Our description will be rendered 
more intelligible by the preceding figures. 

It will obviously appear from these details, in what 
manner superficial observations led to the fancy of 
one insect being on a sudden miraculously metamor- 
phosed or transmuted into another. Those, indeed, 
who persuaded themselves that a morsel of tainted 
beef, or a bit of rotten wood, could, by some inexpli- 
cable chemistry, grow into limbs, wings, eyes, and all 
the other parts of an insect, with its admirable orga- 
nization of muscles, nerves, and digestive apparatus, 
had no difficulty to overcome in believing that the 
green pulpy mass of a chrysalis could be transmuted 
into the light airy wings of a butterfly: — nay, they con- 
sidered the matter as proved, and admired the sup- 
posed metamorphosis, without giving themselves the 
trouble of investigating whether it was real or possi- 
ble t- Accurate observation, founded on the princi- 
ples of the Baconian philosophy, gradually put to 
flight the reveries of those who (to use the words of 
Harvey) “ philosophize by traduction, who are not a 
whit wiser than the inanimate books through which 
they come at their ill-digested notions J.” Yet this 
distinguished physiologist, though he could so express 
himself, occasionally struck upon the very sand-bank 
of which he here warns us to take care ; perhaps in 
consequence of a cause shrewdly and profoundly 
assigned for philosophical errors by Des Cartes, in 
his Essay on Method, who says, “ I was always of 
opinion, that more truth is to be found in those 
reasonings which men make use of in the common 
affairs of life, whose bad success may prove a kind ot‘ 
punishment for their reasoning ill, than those which 
* Swammerdam, vol. li. p. 17 . 

t Reaumur, vol. i. p. 350. f Harvey, De Gen. An., Exer. 44. 






some idle doctor, cooped up in his study, has in- 
vented, that conduce nothing to the ease and happi- 
ness of life, and from which he expects no other ad- 
vantage unless that of reaping so much the greater 
harvest of empty glory from his arguments ; as they 
contain less of truth and common sense, on account 
of the extraordinary strength of genius and applica- 
tion requisite to give an imposing air to such ab- 
surdities.** 

It was the decided opinion of Swammerdam that 
the several transformations of insects, particularly the 
change from the egg to the caterpillar, and from the 
pupa to the perfect insect, are chiefly effected by the 
evaporation of the superabundant fluids. Thus he 
tells us that the nit, or egg of the louse {Pediculus 
kiimanus), is nothing more than the insect itself, 
which only requires the evaporation of the surround- 
ing moisture and the casting of the old skin, to bring 
it to its perfect form *, It is not a little surprising 
that so very accurate a naturalist should never have 
thought of investigating the truth of such an opinion 
by experiment. That he neglected this precaution, is 
an instance, among thousands more, of the imperfec- 
tion of human studies ; for his very first trial would 
have demonstrated the error, which pervades every 
page of his great work. He was evidently misled 
into the opinion by perceiving how fluid the contents 
of an egg or of a pupa are when opened previous to 
their change, and how dry the insect is upon its 
evolution. 

It is much more surprising to find Kirby and 
Spence repeating the same, or nearly the same opi- 
nion, at the very time, too, when they are in the act 
of quoting the experiments of Rt5aumur, by which it 
is refuted, though the great experimenter himself mis- 
interpreted them. “ If you open a pupa,** say they, 
^ Swammerdam, passim. 





“ soon after its assumption of that state, you will find 
its interior filled with a milky fluid, in the midst of 
which the rudiments of its future limbs and organs, 
themselves almost as fluid, swim. Now the end to 
be accomplished during the pupa’s existence is, the 
gradual evaporation of the watery parts of this fluid, 
and the developement of the organs of the enclosed 
animal by the absorption and assimilation of the resi- 
duum*.” The evaporation, however, is so very 
inconsiderable, that it is evidently only of secondary 
consequence. 

When the great quantity of fluid in the body of thp 
chrysalis is taken into consideration, we must infer 
that if it were evaporated to any extent, the insect 
would be reduced to a mere shadow. We are dis- 
posed, therefore, to agree with Rt^aumur in thinking 
it more probable that the fluids of pupte become 
united to the more solid parts, in the same way 
as the blood and lymph in oui* own bodies go 
to the extension or to the repair of our bones and 
muscles. To put this to the test of experiment, 
Reaumur, in the month of J uly, accurately weighed 
two chrysalides the instant they were disencumbered 
of the sloughs of the larvae. The lightest weighed a 
trifle less than 18, and the heavier a trifle less than 
19 grains. Putting them aside separately, with a 
note of their respective weights, he re-weighed them 
every two or three days for sixteen days successively, 
that is, till they were transformed into perfect insects. 
On the last day, the lighter weighed more than 17, 
and the heavier more than 18 grains ; consequently 
the fluid evaporated during this peried did not amount 
to a grain, perhaps not to more than f of a grain. On 
weighing the insects themselves which issued from 
these pupa, together with the cast slough, the weight 
was not sensibly diflerent. The fluid, therefore, 
* Introd. iii, 262. 



which escapes by what is termed insensible perspi- 
ration, is not so great as might have been supposed. 
To ascertain what it was, Reaumur enclosed several 
chrysalides, whose envelope seemed very dry, hi se- 
parate glass tubes, terminating at one end in a bulb, 
and at the other hermetically sealed. He kept these 
in a temperature of from 14° to 15° of his own 
thermometer, corresponding to 63° — 65° Fahr. ; and 
in a few days minute drops of water appeared on the 
sides of the tube, which rolled down into the bulb 
in form of a larger drop — not “ eight or ten large 
drops,’* as Kirby and Spence, by some oversight, 
have stated 

It would certainly be considered a strange and 
untenable doctrine to maintain that it is the evapo- 
ration produced from the egg by the heat of the in- 
cubating mother, which causes the development of 
the chick in the egg ; yet this is precisely similar to 
what is maintained by Swammerdam, Kirby, and 
Spence, — the chief difference being, as Reaumur ob- 
serves, that the chick has obvious organs for appro- 
priating the nutriment contained in the egg, while the 
insect in the pupa is surrounded, and, as it were, 
bathed by the fluid, whose passage into the interior 
vessels we cannot trace by the eye t- That they do 
find their way thither, the experiments above recorded 
unanswerably demonstrate. 

The pupae of insects, though they, in most in- 
stances, cease from locomotion, and appear torpid, 
are by no means really so ; for it would be no less 
incorrect to look upon them in such a light, than to 
consider an ox torpid when reclining in a meadow to 
ruminate and digest the grass he had just been de- 


• Reaumur, vol. i. p.S^S, “ Une goutte beaucoup plus grosse j” 
and Kirby and Spence, Intro, iil. 262, 
t Mem, yol, i, p, 362; &c. 






vouling. This is, in fact, the nearest analogy which 
occurs to us among the other classes of animals ; 
for the pupa, though it does not chew the cud like 
the ox, assuredly rests for the purpose of digesting or 
(if the term be preferred) of assimilating the cruder 
fluids stored up by the caterpillar, and forming or 
perfecting therefrom the organs and members of the 
mature insect 

Some pupaB have a slight motion, particularly of 
the lower parts of the body, and a few others differ 
little from the perfect insect, continuing to move and 
feed ; but the greater number remain apparently mo- 
tionless. That they have internal though impercep- 
tible motions, however, is proved by their possessing 
similar organs of respiration with caterpillars and 
perfect insects. We have adverted, in a former page, 
to the eighteen spiracles which communicate with 
the double windpipe of caterpillars, and the same ap- 
paratus is always found in chrysalides, situated on 
the sides of the abdominal rings. This we think 
might have convinced such distinguished observers 
as Lyonnet andMuschenbrok, that the most quiescent 
pupae could not exist without breathing. 




0 , Chrysalis of Oonepteryx Rhamni. 6, pupa of Lariafascelina, 
Cf pupa of Spkifue Ligwtri. 

* J. R. 






m 

Reaumur and De Geer proved this position by 
numerous experiments. When a chrysalis, for in- 
stance, is suspended by a thread and immersed in oil 
up to the tip of the wing-cases, it does not seem to 
be much injured, and the perfect insect is disclosed 
in due time. If respiration, therefore, be essential to 
the life of the chrysalis, it appears as if it could exist 
with at least the greater number of its spiracles ob- 
structed ; but this does not happen with a chrysalis 
just formed, which always dies. By immersing the 
whole chrysalis in oil, it is certainly killed ; and even 
by immersing its head downwards as far as the first 
pair of spiracles situated near the head. This seems to 
indicate accordingly that this first pair is more essen- 
tial to the insect than all the rest ; and in other ex- 
periments it is also found to emit a much greater 
quantity of air by this first pair* It seems of much 
importance in such experiments to attend to the age 
of the pupa ; for when near the change the function 
of respiration is carried on more feebly, and at length 
nearly ceases. 

Besides the decisive experiments of immersion in 
oil, Rtfaumur placed pupee of various species in the 
exhausted receiver of an air-pump, and at every 
fresh stroke of the piston their bodies both bulged 
out and became elongated : because, as he inferred, 
the envelope is not pervious to the air contained in 
the body, and the spiracles do not allow of its escape 
with sufficient rapidity to keep pace with the ex- 
haustion of the receiver ; — contrary to what happens 
when caterpillars are subjected to the same circum- 
stances. Varying his experiments, he placed in the 
exhausted receiver a vessel containing water deprived 
of its air, and in this plunged a chrysalis, keeping 
it immersed by means of a weight attached by a 
thread. At the two or three first strokes of the pis- 
ton, bubbles of air appeared at each of the spiracles, 



idsum^ by jets, ^fld a few smaller bubbles over the 
body of the chrysalis, probably from not taking the 
precaution afterwards suggested by Bonnet, of 
moistening it before immersion* 

Upon examining the structure of the spiracles, 
M. Reaumur farther discovered that their mouths are 
furnished with ciliary valves, which are shut when 
the pupa is plunged into water, but opened again 
when it is taken out. This circumstance accounts 
for the swelling of the body under the exhausted 
receiver of the air-pump, for it may be supposed the 
animal would closely shut the valves when it felt the 
air forcibly extracted from its body. It is remarkable, 
however, that though the shutting of the valves pre- 
vents the entrance of water, it has not the power of 
excluding oil ; because, as Reaumur conjectures, 
it is not in the ordinary course of its nature exposed 
to such an accident, and therefore Providence made 
no provision for itf. It may be recollected that the 
larvae of the cheese-fly and of blow-flies are provided 
with a sort of valve with which they can cover such 
of their spiracles as become immersed in any greasy 
matter J, 



Spiracles of pupae, a, the valve open ; 6 , tbe same shut. 


In the aquatic pupa of the ringed China-mark 
moth {Hydrocampa stratiotata, Stephens) De Geer 
? Bonnet, CEuvres, voL iii., p. 39, &c. f Mem. i, 407, &c. 

I See page 205, 


found three pairs of conspicuous spiracles, occupying 
the second, third, and fourth rings, and placed on 
cylindrical tubes. It is worthy of remark, that the 
caterpillar spins a double cocoon, the outer of a thin, 
and the inner of a close texture ; and when the re- 
spiratory gills of the larva are cast otf with the old 
skin, the insect knows how to surround itself with an 
atmosphere of air in the midst of the water where it 
resides, the inner cocoon being impervious to 
moisture. How it contrives to renew this air when 
vitiated is not yet known, but that it derives it from 
the water is proved by its always dying if removed 
in^) the air *. 

We have formerly described the beautiful appara- 
tus for respiration in the larvae of the gnat family 
(CHlicicidd, Latr.) t ; but this is rivalled by the organs 
destined for the same purpose in their pupa?, which 
organs are situated in the head instead of the tail. The 
pupa, ip the same way, changes its position in the water, 
swimiping with its head upwards instead of down- 
wards as before. To enable it to maintain this position, 
the pupa is farther provided with a fin-tail^ Uke a fish, 
by which it can move itself at pleasure in the water. 
It no longer, indeed, requires to take food, but air is 
indispensable to it ; and water being so unstable, 
were the pupa incapable of swimming, it w'ould sel- 
dom escape being drowned. Its respiratory appara- 
tus consists of two tubes, situated behind the head, 
on what may be called the shoulders. They are of a 
funnel shape, and project very sensibly, though we 
should not be disposed to compare them, as Reaumur 
does, to asses’ ears. The transparency of this pupa 
renders it easy to see in it the parts of the gnat. 

An apparently more simple, though no less re- 
markable, apparatus for respiration, was observed by 
Reaumur in the pupa of a small crane-fly (Tipula^ 
* DeQeer, Mem. i. 531. f 




This consisted in a singfle tube, two or 
three times longer than the body of the pupa, and as 
fine as a hair. The point of this hair always remains 
above or at the surface of the water, for the purpose 
of carrying on respiration, till the perfect fly is ready 
to emerge from the water. 



a, Tipula, f h, telescopic-tailed pupa of the same. 

c, front view of the pupa of the common gnat (^Culex pipient), 

d, side view of the same. 

In another genus of this family the external organs 
of respiration are very elegant in form, resembling 
more the fibrillae of minute aquatic mosses (Coti- 
fervoidem) than the appendages of an animal. The 
larva of this insect is well known to anglers, under 
the name of the blood worm; though we do not find 
it mentioned by Walton, Brookes, Best, Sir H. Davy, 
or any of the other writers upon angling. It is 
usually less than half an inch long, flat, and jointed 
like the wire worm, with several small appendages at 
the tail, which appear to be breathing- tubes, of the 




nature of gills ; for the larva lives under water in 
streams and ditches, enclosed for the most part in a 
tube of earth. It is of a fine crimson colour, the 
origin of its popular name ; but it becomes more 
dark and opaque in the pupa state. 

The appendages which are thrown off by the larva 



o, Chironomus plumoms. 6, larva of the same, called the 
blood worm, c d, pupae of the same, maguified to sheiv their 
plumed spiracles. 


 


are replaced by a brush-like bunch of bristles, the 
points of which, it is probable, have the power of 
extracting air from the water ; and a similar coronet 
is produced on each side of the head, disposed in a 
five-rayed star of plumes. It is not a little remark- 
able, that a double envelope for the feet projects 
from each side of the breast, a circumstance which 
seems peculiar to this insect. In a few days it is 
transformed into a pretty gnat, with feathered an- 
tennas fChironomus pluTnosuSy Meigen). 

Such are a few examples of the beautiful con- 
trivances for carrying on the important process of 
respiration in that stage of life during which few 
insects take any food. Considering the great diffi- 
culties presented to us in the investigation of this 
subject, we may well wonder that experiments have 
elucidated and proved so many facts. We are still 
ignorant, however, of the nature of the effects pro- 
duced by respiration on the fluids of pupae. 






Transformation of Fnpm into perfect Insects. 


The period which pupae require to come to maturity 
seems to depend mainly on temperature and size, 
though there are several other causes at work appa- 
rently inscrutable to human research. Those who 
adopt, after Swammerdam, the untenable theory of 
evaporation being all that is requisite to bring an 
insect to maturity, tell us that these two circum- 
stances will account for all the phenomena ; but we shall 
immediately have to record several curious facts quite 
at variance with such a conclusion. “ It is plain,'* 
say Kirby and Spence, “ that this necessary transpi- 
ration, other circumstances being alike, must take 
place sooner in a small than in a lar^e pupa. Since 
the more speedy or more tardy evaporation of fluids 
depends upon their exposure to a greater or less 
degree of heat, we might, d priorU conclude that 
pupai exposed to a high temperature would sooner 
attain maturity, even though larger in bulk, than 
others exposed to a low one : and this is the fact. 
The pupa of a large moth, which has assumed that 
state in the early part of summer, will often disclose 
the perfect insect in twelve or fourteen days ; while 
that of an ichneumon, not one-hundredth part of its 
size, that did not enter this state till late in autumn, 
will not appear as a fly for seven or eight months. 
But this is not the whole. The very same insect, 
according as it has become a pupa at an earlier or a 
later period of the year, will at one time live but 





a few weeks, at another several months in that 
state 

But though we admit all these facts, which are 
known to every naturalist, and too well ascertained 
to be denied, we submit that the inference of evapo- 
ration being the exclusive effect, is, upon the whole, 
inadmissible. Reaumur, though he does not abso- 
lutely state his belief in such an inference, shows by 
his reasoning that he was strongly disposed to adopt 
notions closely bordering upon it. The theoretical 
doctrine, it may be perceived, takes for granted that 
evaporation is the only result of heat ; overlooking 
the no less obvious effect of expansion, besides 
the disposition it produces in chemical principles to 
combine or be decomposed. But these are only 
spme of its inanimate results, which would occur 
npon material objects independently of life ; whereas 
in living bodies, what may be called chemical changes 
are frequently very difierent from what can be effected 
out of the living body, and consequently we cannot 
trace all the effects produced by heat in the two great 
internal processes of secretion and consolidation. 
In detailing, therefore, the interesting experiments 
of Reaumur on pupee, which he subjected to different 
degrees of heat and cold, we shall not adopt his in- 
ferences respecting evaporation. The accuracy of 
the experiments themselves is unquestionable. 

Reasoning from some of the facts above stated, 
Reaumur thought it might be possible to hasten or 
retard the exclusion of insects from their pupae, in 
the ^an^e way as some flowers are forced to blow 
early, and others kept back from blowing at their due 
season ; apdhe commenced a series of experiments to 
ascertain the facts. In January, 1734, he accordingly 
placed p g^eat number of the chrysalides of moths 
and bnUe^ies of various species in one of the royal 
^ f Imr. iii. 263. ... 





hot-houses at Paris. His success was equal to his 
expectations, for the insects appeared in the middle 
of winter, some in ten or twelve days, and others in 
from three to six weeks from the time of their removal 
into a warmer atmosphere. Five or six days, indeed, 
seemed to be equal to a month of natural temperature. 
A week was even equal to a month for the chrysalides 
which naturally required the temperature of mid- 
summer to bring them to maturity; because the arti- 
ficial temperature was both high and more uniform, 
particularly during the night. The butterflies and 
moths thus forced into premature appearance, were 
equally full grown, healthy and lively, with those 
produced in the usual way ; and the females deposited 
their eggs and soon afterwards died, as they always 
do in summer in the open fields. The life of these 
insects was, therefore, shortened by some months. 

The following November, Reaumur tried a similar 
experiment, which was consequently begun two 
months earlier than the former ; and the insects were 
also evolved proportionally sooner. Those, for ex- 
ample, which ought naturally to have appeared in 
May, he obtained in December. In butteries which 
have a double brood, such experiments become still 
more interesting to the physiologist. The beautiful 
swallow-tailed butterfly (Papilio Machaoii) is one of 
those which are double brooded, the first going into 
chrysalis in July, and the butterfly appearing in 
thirteen days ; — the second, in the autumn, and the 
butterfly not appearing till the succeeding June. But 
if placed in an artificial temperature of due warmth, 
and properly regulated, the second brood will appear 
in about the same time as the first. 

Reaumur tried some experiments, still more inge- 
nious, with chrysalides, which were suggested by the 
effects produced by birds sitting upon their eggs in 
order to hatch them. He concluded, that if chry- 





saUdes were placed under a sitting bird, they woul4 
be matured in a sinular way as he had found them 
to be the green-house. The difficulty was to pre- 
vent them from being bruised and crushed by the 
bird, as they are much softer and more easily injured 
than eggs. This he obviated by enclosing them ip 
hollow glass balls about the size of a hen's egg, which 
at the same time as readily deceived the bird as a piece 
of chalk passes with the eggs set to hatch under a hen. 
The chrysalides which he first tried were those of the 
small tortoiseshell butterfly {Vanessa Urticce), eight 
of which, attached to square pieces of paper, were sus- 
pended within the glass egg as near to each other as 
possible, and placed under a hen on the 22d of June. 
The aperture of the glass egg was closed, but in such 
a manner as to leave a communication with the ex- 
ternal air. The effect of the heat manifested itself 
the first day, in the moisture exhaled from the chrysa- 
lides, all the interior of the glass being covered with 
minute drops of water, which he allowed to evaporate 
by unstopping the glass, lest the moisture might spoil 
his experiment. When it was dry, he replaced it 
under the hen, and he observed no moisture exhaled 
on the following days, the chief transpiration having 
occurred in the first twenty-four hours. In about 
four days the first butterfly that, perhaps, was ever 
hatched under a hen made its appearance. He found 
four more evolved next morning, and one on the suc- 
ceeding day, the 28th of J une. Those of the same 
brood which were contained in a nurse-box placed in 
a window, did not appear before the 5th, and some 
ppt before the 8th of J uly, which was ten or twelve 
days later. Two out of eight of the chrysalides which 
had been enclosed in the glass egg died. He made 
a similar experiment with the same success upon 
several c^salides of the peacock butterfly (Vanessa 
Jo). With the pupae also of twp-winged flies and 






other insects, he tried all the preceding etperirheiits 
with very similar results. The heat cortimuhicated to 
the glass egg was very considerable, amounting to 
31® or 32® of Re^aumtir’s thermometer % or about 100® 
Fahr. It was not surprising, therefore, that some Of 
the pupae perished : we think it more wonderful that 
any of them survived. 

Rt^aumur suggests, from these experiments, that 
those who are curious in obtaining the productions 
of summer during winter, may add to the gaiety 
of their forced flowers, by forcing a brood of butter- 
flies into life to sport amongst them ; and he records 
an instance in which a friend of his at Strasburgh in 
this way hatched, by means of a stove, all the pupae 
he could obtain. We have in several instances suc- 
ceeded in obtaining butterflies in winter, by keeping 
chrysalides under glasses on a mantel -piece in a room 
with a constant tire ; but during the winter of 1829-30, 
all which were thus kept died, probably ftom the firCs 
required by the unusual severity of the season being 
too great for them. Several, on the other hand, 
which we found on walls, and which had been ex- 
posed to all tlie rigours of the winter, were disclosed 
in due lime in a perfect state. 

Having thus ascertained that heat produced the 
effects which he had anticipated, Reaumur next tried an 
opposite series of experiments, by placing chrysalides 
in diminished temperatures. He accordingly en- 
closed in nurse-boxes a number of pupae fornied in 
August 1733, and in the following January placed 
them in a coal-cellar : their natural period of appear- 
ing in the perfect state being July 1734. During the 
hot months of this year he wetit from time to time to 
see whether these pupae indicated an approaching 
change, but they remained in their original state 
during July and August, and continued so till the SUC- 
* E^aumuf; Mem* vol. ii* p* 17* 





ceedin^ August, 1735, at the time he was writing this 
account, when he found them still living and healthy, 
but not transformed into perfect insects. We are not 
aware whether he ever published the termination of 
the experiment 

In another instance, he placed in a coal-cellar the 
pupee of the emperor moth {Saturnia pavonid)j about 
a fortnight or three weeks before the usual time of 
their evolution ; and they were in consequence retarded 
to five or six weeks later than those of the same 
brood which he had kept in his cabinet. The chry- 
salides of the large garden white butterfly (Pontia 
Braasicee)^ when placed in the cellar in January, 
appeared two months later than those in the tem- 
perature of the atmosphere. A still more decisive 
experiment was made with the chrysalides of the 
small tortoiseshell butterfly (Vanessa UriioB), which 
require fourteen days of summer heat to mature 
them, and which, when hatched under a hen, had 
appeared in four days. Some of these he placed in 
the cellar the 12th of June, and they did not appear 
till the 2d and 3d of August, — about six weeks later 
than in their natural temperature. 

Reaumur, still haunted by the notion of the ex- 
halation of moisture being the only cause of the 
development of chrysalides, tried upon them similar 
ingenious experiments to those which he had success- 
fully made upon eggs, by varnishing them in order to 
prevent the escape of moisture. His experiments 
upon varnishing eggs have led to a most useful dis- 
covery, now extensively acted upon in practice for 
the preservation of eggs all over Europe. Those 
upon chrysalides, however, were not conducted with 
the same degree of acute accuracy. To prevent the 
chrysalides from coming to maturity at the usual 
time, by preventing the exhalation of their moisture, 
he conceived it would be sufficient to varnish over 





the envelope, taking care to leave the respiratory 
spiracles unobstructed. But it is most obvious, that 
the greater part of all the evaporation which occurs 
must be through the spiracles, in the same way as a 
large proportion of the moisture of the human body 
passes off by the breath. The result, however, of 
R«5aumur’s experiments with the varnished chrysalides 
was, that they were developed several weeks later 
tlian when placed in their natural circumstances, — 
which proves, we think, that the envelope has consi- 
derable influence on the transformatory process going 
on in the interior, even were we to leave the trans- 
piration of moisture out of the question 

We may remark, that the results of these experi- 
ments afford interesting illustrations of the torpidity 
of both the larger animals and of plants. In the 
United States of America, for example, many species 
of animals which become torpid in Pennsylvania, and 
other more northern parts of the country, remain 
lively in the Carolinas, and other southern parts of 
the continent t. Mr. Gough found that the dormouse 
may be prevented from becoming torpid by supplying 
it plentifully with food; and Dr. Reeve, of Norwich, 
observed the same circumstance in a hedge-hog, 
which being kept warm and well fed, showed no dis- 
position to become torpid even during severe wea- 
ther J. Pallas had a tame marmot, also, which having 
become very fat during the summer, showed no dis- 
position to torpidity, though exposed to a tempera- 
ture which threw the whole species into a torpid 
state in that part of Siberia, In the vegetable king- 
dom, again, it is a very common phenomenon to see 
plants revive after exposure to severe frosts. Mr. 

* Reaumur, Mem. vol. ii. p. 56. 
f Barton, in Amer. Phil. Trans, vol. iv. 

J Reeve on Torpidity, p, 73. 



Gough made some ingenious experiments in proof of 
this upon several plants, such as the small duck^s 
meat (Lemna minor) y and the viviparous fescue 
grass (Festuca vwipara)y which led to the conclusion 
that they could accommodate themselves without 
perishing to the vicissitudes of variable situations*. 

We observed a no less marked instance than those 
recorded by Mr. Gough, in a plant of the geranium, 
named Prince Leopold (Pelargonium macranthon. 
Sweet), the whole of whose leaves were so hard 
frozen as to break rather than bend. We immersed 
the whole of the plant in cold water, a few degrees 
above freezing, till it was thawed, and it recovered 
so completely, that not a single frosted spot appeared 
on any of the leaves t. 

Several extraordinary facts relating to insects 
prove that temperature alone will not account for the 
variations of the periods of their disclosure. It is 
stated by Marsham, that Mr. Jones of Chelsea, in one 
of his excursions, caught a female of the spotted 
muslin moth (Diaphora mendicuy Stephens), which 
laid a number of eggs, and he fed thirty-six of the 
caterpillars hatched from these, till they spun their 
tocoons and became pupae. At the usual season 
only a third of these produced moths, and he con- 
cluded the rest were dead : but, to ^^is utter astonish- 
ment, twelve more made their appearance the second 
season ; and the remaining twelve were evolved the 
third season, as jierfect and healthy as those which 
had been first produced J. 

The same extraordinary fact has been obsehred in 
the pupae of the small egger-moth {Eriogaster la- 
ne8tris)y the greater number of those which spin up 
in summer appearing in the succeeding February ; 

* Manchester Trans. f J, R. 

J Linn. Trans, vol. x, p , 402. 





but others of them requiring two, three, and even 
four years* * * § . Meinecken kept several pupse of the 
emperor-moth (Saturnia pavonia) through the winter 
in a room heated daily by a stove, and others in a cpld 
chamber. Some of both these appeared in March, 
and others, though evidently healthy, had not ap- 
peared in J uly t. 

It is certain, however, that this is not the natural 
order of things, even in this species ; for we have 
reared several broods of the species respecting which 
the preceding facts are recorded, without having 
observed them. In a large brood of the small egger 
(Eriogaster lanestris) five or six of the cocoons did 
not produce insects, and we consequently anticipated 
their appearance next year, but we have now kept 
them five years without any change, and therefore 
conclude they are deadj. The inference deduced, 
however, from the facts observed, is very plausible, 
namely, that it is intended by Providence to preserve 
the species : for were all the individuals of a brood to 
appear in the same season, it might happen to be so 
ungenial, particularly in the early months of spring, 
as to destroy them before they could deposit their 
eggs ; whereas, by their appearing in different seasons, 
some of them have the chance of coming forth in 
mild weather §. Yet, perhaps, this may be an unne- 
cessary though ingenious refining upon a final cause : 
for even in the most ungenial spring weather, there 
always occur some fine days, and, further, a brood of 
insects does not all appear on one day, but more usually 
on many successive days, as may be seen by the experi- 
meqts of Reaumur recorded at the beginning of this 

* Scriba, Journ. i., vol. iii. p. 222 ; and Haworth, Lepidopt. 

Brit., vol. i. p. 125. 

f Naturf., vol. viii. p. 143. J J. R. 

§ Kirby and Spence, vol. iii. p. 267. 

2 £ 2 






chapter. In the instance of the clear underwing (JEge- 
ria asiliformis, Stephens), we discovered a brood of 
above a dozen of the pupae in the trunk of a black pop- 
lar; but though, from feeding on the wood of the tree, 
the caterpillars must have been well protected from the 
vicissitudes of the seasons, there was nearly a month 
between the appearance of the first and the last*. 
This, indeed, is so very common an occurrence that 
it is almost superfluous to mention particular in- 
stances. 

The moths just mentioned, we may remark, were 
only observed to appear about noon ; and many 
other insects are known to emerge from the pupa 
only at one particular time of the day, similar to the 
flowers, such as the goat’s-beard {Tragopogon), and 
the night-flowering cereus {Cactus grandijiorus)^ 
which only blow at particular hours. Some insects 
are produced at sunrise, others at noon, and others 
again only at night. Several species are extremely 
regular in their appearance, such as the orange-tip 
butterfly {Poniia Cardamines)^ which is usually seen 
about the end of April, varying but few days in the 
course of many years. The various species, also, of 
May-flies {Ephemerae) are confined in their appear- 
ance to two or three days ; and those observed by 
Reaumur appear at no other time than between 
eight or ten in the evening. Those which we no- 
ticed on the Rhine in August, 1829, began to 
appear at sunset, and before morning were all dead. 
In the great square at Wiesbaden, their bodies were 
so thickly strewn about that it seemed as if a shower 
of snow had fallen during the night, their wings 
being white, and about the size of a broad snow- 
flake t» • 

The pupae of these May-flies, when about to un- 
? J. R. t J. R. 





dergo their transformation, emerge from their suba- 
queous galleries and come to the surface of the 
water. As they must keep their wings dry, the pro- 
cess would appear to be one of considerable aiffi- 
culty ; yet an observer may remark that they perform 
it with the utmost ease. In the instance of the gnat, 
this process of emerging from the water is still more 
conspicuous on account of the difference of form in 
the pupa and the fly. 

About eight or ten days after the larva of a gnat is 
transformed into a pupa, it prepares, generally to- 
wards noon, for emerging into the air, raising itself 
up to the surface so as to elevate its shoulders just 
above the level of the water. It has scarcely got into 
this position for an instant, when, by swelling the 
part of its body above water, the skin cracks between 
the two breathing tubes, and immediately the head of 
the gnat makes its appearance through the rent. 
The shoulders instantly follow, enlarging the breach 
so as to render the extrication of the body compara- 
tively easy. The most important and indeed indis- 
pensable part of the mechanism, is the maintaining 
of its upright position so as not to get wetted, which 
would spoil its wings and prevent it from flying. Its 
chief support is the rugosity of the envelope which it 
is throwing off, and which now serves it as a life-boat 
till it gets its wings set at liberty and trimmed for 
flight. The body of the insect serves this little boat 
for a mast, which is raised in a manner similar to 
moveable masts in lighters constructed for pass- 
ing under a bridge, with this difference, that the 
gnat raises its body in an upright direction from the 
first. “ When the naturalist,” says Reaumur, “ ob- 
serves how deep the prow of the tiny boat dips into 
the water, he becomes anxious for the fate of the 
little mariner, particularly if a breeze ripples the 

2 F 3 






surface, for the least agitation of the air will waft it 
rapidly along, since its body performs the duty of a 
sail as well as of a mast : but as it bears a much 
greater proportion to the little bark than the largest 
sail does to a ship, it appears in great danger of 
being upset ; and once laid on its side, all is over. 
I have sometimes seen the surface of the water 
covered with the bodies of gnats which had perished 
in this way ; but for the most part all terminates 
favourably, and the danger is instantly over*.*’ 
When the gnat has extricated itself all but the tail, 
it first stretches out its two fore-legs t, and then the 
middle pair, bending them down to feel for the 
water, upon which it is able to walk as upon dry 
land, the only aquatic faculty which it retains after 
having winged its way above the element where it 



^ The gnat {Culex pipiens) escaping from the pupa. 

? Mem., vol. iv. p. 613. 

t Kirby and Spence, by mistake, say it ‘‘draws’’ these out of 
their case,'* vol. iii, p. 288. 





spent the first stages of its existence. “ It leaves,* 
says Swammerdam, “ its cast skin on the water 
where it insensibly decays*.” Reaumur doubts 
whether Swammerdam ever actually saw this inte- 
resting transformation. We have seen it twice only. 

The beautiful pupa formed from the blood worm, 
as before described, proceeds in its transformation 
much in the same way as the common gnat. But 
how, it may be asked, can the insect raise its 
shoulders above the surface of the water, than which 
it is specifically heavier, and suspend itself there 
without motion? “ By a most singular and beau- 
tiful contrivance, which,” says Kirby, “ I shall ex- 
plain, the more particularly because it has escaped 
Rt^aumur, and, as far as I know, all other entomo- 
logical observers. The middle of the back of the 
thorax has the property of repelling water, appa- 
rently from being covered with some oily secretion. 
Hence, as soon as the pupa has once forced this 
part of its body above the surface, the water is seen 
to retreat from it on all sides, leaving an oval space 
in the disk, which is quite dry. Now though the 
specific gravity of the pupa is greater than that ot 
water, it is but so very slightly greater, that the mere 
attraction of the air to the dry part of the thorax, 
when once exposed to it, is sufficient to retain it at 
the surface ; just as a small dry needle swims under 
similar circumstances. That this is a true solution 
of the phenomenon, I am convinced by the result of 
several experiments. If, when the pupa is sus- 
pended at the surface, a drop of water be let fall 
upon the dry portion of the thorax, it instantly sinks 
to the bottom t, the thorax, which belongs to the 
heaviest half, being the lowest ; and if the pupa be 

* Part i. p. 156. 

f But, if so, we may ask what has become of the power of the 
thorax to repel water ? J. R. 


 

a^in brought to the sutface, so that the fluid is 
r^elled from its disk, it remains there, without 
enort, as before. Just before the exclusion of the 
fly {Chironomus plumosusy Meigen), the dry part 
of the thorax is seen to split in the middle. The 
air enters, and forms a brilliant stratum, resembling 
quicksilver, between the body of the insect and its 
puparium ; and the former pushing forth its head 
and fore- legs, like the gnat, rests the latter upon the 
water, and in a few seconds extricates itself wholly 
from its envelope*.’’ 

The grubs of several of the four-winged water 
flies (PhryganidtE, Stephens), popularly called 
case worms and caddis worms, construct a remark- 
able apparatus for protecting the pupa during its 
state of inactivity and helplessness. So long as it 
remains in the grub state it can withdraw itself within 
its case of shells, stones, or reed-stems ; but as soon as 
it feels its change approaching, it contrives additional 
security. It weaves, for this purpose, at the entrance 
of its gallery, a grating of its singular sill^, which 
hardens in water and remains indissoluble, as was 
first observed by Vallisnieri. The strong threads 
are made to cross each other, forming a small 
thiekish circular plate of brown silk, which becomes 
as hard as gum, fitting exactly into the opening, 
and placed a little within the margin. One of these 
gratings (described by De Geer) is pierced all over 
with holes, disposed in concentric circles, separated 
by ridges running from the centre to the circum- 
ference, though not quite so regularly as the spokes 
of a wheel. Other ridges, again, are made to tra- 
verse the concentric rays, following the course of the 
circles of holes, in such a manner as to form com- 
partments, each having a hole in its centre f. Reau- 
mur found that these holes were for the purpose of 
? Intr., iii. p. 290. f 1^® Geer, Mem,, vol. ii. p. 519 — 45. 






breathing, by admitting a current of fresh water, 
effected, no doubt, by the spiracles of the pupa ; and 
he actually saw the grate-work in alternate motion 
from convex to concave, as the water passed out 
and in. 

Our motive, however, for introducing a notice of 
these structures is for the purpose of explaining the 
contrivance by which the pupa makes its exit through 
the grating. To effect this, it is provided with a pair 
of curved mandibles, which appear to be applied 
to no other use, for they are thrown off upon its 
transformation into a fly, as was observed by Vallis- 
nieri. These facts may be verified by searching for 
caddis worms during the early spring months, as 
most of them are transformed in the first part of the 
summer. 



a. Pupa of a case-fly (Phryganea). v d, grate-works of the 
same at the openings of the cases, greatly magnifled. b, the 
perfect insect. 


In the common blow-fly (Musca carnaria)^ and 
many of the same family, the exit of the perfect 
insect from the pupa case is effected by a very dif- 
ferent, but no less admirable contrivance. The head 
of the perfect fly, it may be remarked, is hard and 
unyielding ; but in the pupa it is soft, and capable 



 

of great distension. When the insect, therefore, 
becomes desirous of escaping from its prison, it 
blows out the extensile part of its head like a bladder, 
alternately pushing it forward in the form of a muzzle, 
and swelling it out at the sides in the form of a ball, 
till it succeeds in rupturing the pupa case. As this 
envelope is too opaque to see the process distinctly 
on the outside, it is necessary to open the pupa just 
before its transformation, when the movements be- 
come obvious. The same mechanism occurs in the 
pupae of some of the fibrous gall flies (Tephritea) , 
for the purpose of dissevering the woody fibres 
which imprison the insects. In the instance of the 
thistle gall fly (Tephritis Cardui)^ Reaumur found 
that those kept in his study often became too rigid 
for the insects to force their passage, and after 
making repeated efforts they gave up the task in 
despair and died *. In the open air this accident is 
prevented by the rain moistening the galls. We 
have more than once had occasion to make the same 
remark in the woody galls, such as the bedeguar of 
the rose, in which the flies have to gnaw for them- 
selves a passage, but which they cannot always 
efiect when the galls are kept through the winter in 
a dry roomf. 

In another genus of flies, the pupa does not 
make use of its head, but turns round and employs 
its tail to force a passage. This may be observed 
in the pupa formed from the rat-tailed maggot of 
the common-sewer fly {Erisialis tenax, Fabricius), 
which was observed by Reaumur to push off the lid 
of its pupa case by means of its tail. 

The caterpillar of the clear- wing hawk moth 
{Mgeria asiliformis, Stephens), before going into 
pupa, gnaws away the wood of the poplar tree, 
where it is lodged, till it leaves only a plate of it as 
* Reaumur, iv., Mem. 8. t 






thin as writing-paper. The head of this pupa being 
obtuse, it cannot of course cut through this wooden 
covering, thin as it is, but can only push against it 
till it burst it open, which we have more than once 
seen it actually do*. It is enabled to exert consi- 
derable force in this process, by means of the beauti- 
fully serrated structure of its rings, resembling in this 
tespect the caterpillars of cossms and other wood- 
borers. 



Pupae of Cossus, a, and JEgeria^ Bhewing the serratiiTes of 
their rings. 

Lyonnet justly remarks that in the cosms there 
are sharp points upon the head for the purpose of 
making the first breach, the rest of the body acting 
as a wedge to tear open the cocoon. Professor Peck 
has given a very interesting account of similar pro- 
ceedings in the case of the locust moth (Cossus Ro~ 
binicB, Peck). “ In the silk moth,” he says, “ and 
all others which I have had an opportunity to ob- 
serve, the chrysalis bursts in the cocoon, and the fluid 
which surrounded the new insect in it escaping at the 
same time, so weakens or dissolves the fibre and 
texture of the silkt, that the moth is able to extri- 
cate itself, leaving the chrysalis behind it ; but this is 
liot the manner in the locust moth. After remaining 
till all its parts are fully grown, and it is ready to 
quit its prison, a certain quantity of exercise is ne- 
cessary to break the ligaments which attach the moth 
? J. R. 

f See some observations on this doctrine; Insect Architec- 
ture,” pages 316,317, and 195, 






to the shell of the chrysalis, and to loosen the folds 
of the abdomen. In taking this exercise, it can 
only move the abdomen in various directions; as 
one side of the rings is moved forward, the hooks in 
the serrated lines take hold of the silk and prevent 
their sliding back ; the next flexure brings forward 
the opposite side of the rings, which are prevented 
by the points on that side from slipping back in the 
same manner, and the chrysalis is forced out of the 
slightly-woven extremity of the cocoon, and through 
the silk-lined cavity, till it is protruded for about one- 
third of its length out of the opening in the bark and 
into the air*.” i 

A no less ingenious contrivance for escape was 
observed by Bonnet in one of the leaf-rollers, which 
feeds on the leaves of young ash trees. It rolls up the 
leaf into a cone, and is transformed into a small pupa, 
resembling a grain of oats. The chamber which it 
forms is not only extensive in proportion to the size 
of the insect, but is so very compact, that it does not 
appear in what manner it is to effect its escape. 
Within the capacious chamber of the leaf it hangs 
itself up by two lines, after the manner of a sailor's 
hammock. But, previous to this, it gnaws a cir- 
cular piece half through the leaf, taking care not to 
injure the exterior membrane. In order to render 
this little door easy to be found, the caterpillar, as if 
foreseeing that the blind pupa could not otherwise 
discover it, fixes one of the suspensory threads near 
its margin, guided by which the insect makes its 
exit with the utmost ease, for the head is uniformly 
swung up by the door thread f. 

A very similar proceeding is recorded of the mi- 
nute granary moth (Tinea granella)^ which we 
have before mentioned as destructive to grain. The 

* Peck, quoted by Kirby and Spence. 

+ Bonnet, (Euvres, vol, ii., p. 207. 





eggs being laid on the outside of the grain, the 
entrance of the caterpillar into the interior is not 
larger than a pin’s point, and of course entirely use- 
less as a passage for the moth ; but, before its trans- 
formation into the pupa, it shapes out a door in the 
skin of the grain, so that it may be easily broken open 
from within, while it appears entire on the outside. 
By pushing it accordingly it at once gives way. 

A prospective contrivance of the same kind occurs 
in the economy of a caterpillar which lives on the 
dry pith in the seed heads of the wild teazle fDipsa- 
CU8 sylvestrisj. The hole by which the newly hatched 
caterpillar enters is so minute, that in some hun- 
dreds of teazle heads, containing full-grown ones, 
we have never been able to detect it ; but its subse- 
quent proceedings are easily traced. From the first 
it is not contented with the protection afforded by 
the walls of the seed head, but always spins a gallery 
of thick silk to cover it while feeding, the outside of 
which is generally covered with its ejectamenta. Up 
to the period of its approaching change, the walls of 
the seed head are left quite entire, as it only eats the 
dry pith contained in their cavity ; but through these 
it would be impossible for the moth to make its way, 
inasmuch as it is unprovided with mandibles for 
gnawing. The provident caterpillar, therefore, takes 
care before its change to cut a circular hole into the 
teazle at the end of its own silken gallery, through 
which the nascent moth may find an easy passage. 
Bonnet gives it farther credit for a piece of ingenuity 
which we have not been able to verify. After cutting 
the hole, he tells us, it carefully fortifies it on the out- 
side by amassing the fibres and seeds of the plant in 
a loose manner over the hole, to prevent the intrusion 
of rapacious insects from without ; and he gives a 
very minute detail of his discovery of this fortifica- 





tion** But we have only to examine the arrange- 
ment of the teazle seeds to perceive that he must 
have been mistaken. In a dozen specimens now 
before us we find that, besides gnawing through the 
wall, the insect has eaten about an eighth of an inch 
into the seeds themselves and the chaff which sur- 
rounds them, leaving on the outside the extremities 
untouched, but lining the whole with a slight tissue 
of silk, — the circumstance, no doubt, which misled 
Bonnet. As these are extremely common in the 
vicinity of London, almost two-thirds of the seed 
heads of teazle containing a caterpillar, the pro* 
ceedings of the insect may be easily examined t* 

A similar prospective contrivance occurs in the 
instance of a caterpillar which feeds on the cow 
parsnip (Heraclevm ftpondylivm)^ and makes a cir- 
cular hole in the stem for the exit of the moth. 

In all the preceding instances, the pupa is left to 
effect its extrication by its own unassisted efforts. 
But amidst the variety which claims our admiration 
in the economy of insects, we have to notice pro- 
ceedings no less remarkable in the case of those 
pupae which require extraneous assistance in their 
transformations. An instance of this is mentioned 
by Kirby and Spence, on the authority of the Hon. 
Captain Percy, K.N., who, while he was watching 
some female crane flies (Tipvlte oleract^ee ?) busily 
employed in depositing their eggs amongst the roots 
of grass, saw one quitting her pupa case. She had 
already, by her own efforts, got her head, shoulders, 
and fore-legs disengaged, when two male flies arrived 
to assist in her extrication. They immediately laid 
hold of her pupa case with their anal forceps and hind- 
legs, while with their fore-legs and mouths they 
seemed to push her upwards, moving her backwards 
* Bonnet, (Earres, vol. ii., obs. xix. f J.ft. 






and forwards, and shifting their hold till she was 
entirely extricated, when they left her to recover her 
strength by herself. “ Probably,'* say our authors, 
“ the extreme length of the two pair of hind-legs of 
these animals may render such assistance necessary 
for their extrication*.** We, however, imagitie 
that Captain Percy’s instance was accidental and 
anomalous ; for the insect having already extricated 
her head, shoulders, and fore-legs, all the difficulties 
were surmounted. From the insect being so very 
common, also, the circumstance of such assistance, 
if it did happen, must be matter of frequent ob- 
servation ; but we have witnessed a considerable 
number of several species of this family undergo the 
change without any assistance whatever f. 

The best ascertaitied case of assistance occurs 
among ants, and was first observed by the accurate 
Swedish naturalist De Geer, though the best ac- 
count of it is given by the younger Huber. “ The 
greater part of the pupse,” says he, “ are enclosed in 
a tissue spu i by themselves before their change; 
but they cannot, like other insects, liberate themselves 
from this covering by effecting an opening in it with 
their teeth. They have scarcely the power of mov- 
ing ; their covering is of too compact a texture, and 
formed of too strong a silk, to allow of their tearing 
it without the assistance of the workers. But how do 
these indefatigable attendants ascertain the proper 
moment for this process? If they possessed the fa- 
culty of hearing, we might imagine they knew the tit 
time, from some noise produced in the interior of the 
prison by the insects whose developement has com- 
menced ; but there is no indication favouring this 
opinion ; it is probable they have a knowledge of it 
from some sight movements that take place within, 
which they ascertain through the medium of their 
* Intr. iii. 286. f J. R. 

 

antennee ; for these organs are endowed with a sensi- 
bility, of which it would be difficult to form a just 
idea : whatever it be, they are never deceived. 

“ Let us still follow them in that labour in which 
are displayed a zeal and attachment that would justly 
merit our attention, even were they the real parents 
of these pupae ; how much greater then must be our 
astonishment, when we consider that they bear no 
further relation to them than that of being born under 
the same roof. Several males and females lay in 
their envelopes in one of the largest cavities of my 
glazed ant-hill. The labourer-ants assembled toge- 
ther and appeared to be in continual motion around 
them. I noticed three or four mounted upon one of 
these cocoons, endeavouring to open it with their 
teeth at that extremity answering to the head of the 
pupa. They began to thin it by tearing away some 
threads of silk where they wished to pierce it, and at 
length, by dint of pinching and biting this tissue, so 
extremely difficult to break, they formed in it a vast 
number of apertures. They afterwards attempted to 
enlarge these openings, by tearing or drawing away 
the silk ; but these efforts proving ineffectual, they 
passed one of their mandibles into the cocoon through 
the apertures they had formed, and by cutting each 
thread, one after the other with great patience, at 
length effected a passage, of a line in diameter, in the 
superior part of the web. They now uncovered the 
head and feet of the prisoner, to which they were de- 
sirous of giving liberty, but, before they could effect 
its release, it was absolutely necessary to enlarge the 
opening. For this purpose these guardians cut out 
a portion in the longitudinal direction of the^cocoon,* 
with their teeth alone, employing these instruments 
as we are in the habit of employing a pair of scissors. 
A considerable degree of agitation prevailed in this 
part of the ant-hill A number of labourer-ants were 






occupied in diaen^ging the winged individual from 
its envelope; they took repose and relieved each 
other by turns, evincing great eagerness in seconding 
their companions in the task. To expedite the work, 
some raised up a little slip cut out in the length of 
the cocoon, whilst others drew the insect gently from 
its imprisonment. When the ant was extricated from 
its enveloping membrane, it was not, like other in- 
sects, capable of enjoying its freedom and taking 
flight; it could neither fly, nor walk, nor, without 
difficulty, stand ; for the body was still confined by 
another membrane, from which it could not by its 
own exertions disengage itself. 

“In this fresh embarrassment, the labnurer-ants 
did not forsake it: they removed the satin-like- pel- 
licle which embraced every part of the body, drew 
the antennae gently from their investment, then dis- 
engaged the feet and the wings, and lastly the body, 
with the abdomen and its peduncle. The insect was 
now in a condition to walk and receive nourishment, 
for which it appeared there was urgent need. The 
first attention, therefore, paid it by the guardians was 
that of giving it the food I had placed within their 
reach. 

“ The ants in every part of the ant-hill were occu- 
pied in giving liberty to the males, females, and 
young iabourer-ants, which were still enveloped. Ou 
being disencumbered of their coverings, the rem- 
nants were collected and placed aside in one of the 
most distant lodges of their habitation ; for these in- 
sects observe the greatest order and regularity. 
Some species of ants remove these shreds to a dis^ 
tauce from the ant-hill, others cover the exterior sur- 
face of their nest with them, or collect them in parti- 
cular apartments*.** 

A very interesting experiment upon this subject 
was tried by f)r. J. R. Johnson, of Bristol. “Among 
' ? Huber on Ants, p. 88. 



those ants I kept in confinement,^* says he, I ob- 
served that considerable bustle prevailed when any of 
the pupse were about to quit the cocoon. For the 
most part two or ‘three stationed themselves on 
or near each cocoon. From seeing, more than 
once, two engaged in the operation, I placed 
in a wine-glass, with a little moistened earth, 
one of the yellow ants (Formica flavd)^ with 
three or four pupae ; the first object with this little 
creature was that of excavating a chamber for the 
deposition of its treasure. The pupae were then 
brought up, and laid on the surface of the earth from 
day to day, to receive the sun’s warmth. In a few 
days I saw the scattered remnants of one of the 
cocoons, and the worker, with his assistant, engaged 
in giving liberty to the remaining ants. I did not, 
at the time, notice whether the pupae were or were 
not capable of effecting their own liberation ; but ac- 
cording to the statement of De Geer, the pupa dies 
when neglected by the workers*.” 

The latter circumstance is contradicted by the 
testimony of Swammerdam, one of the highest 
authorities which could be adduced. The species he 
describes as flesh-coloured, and he was not a little 
surprised that they spun a cocoon like the silk- worm. 
“ This web,” he says, “ was of an oval figure, and 
wrought with delicate and fine threads about the 
body, being of a rusty iron colour, and when I opened 
it I found a pupa in the interior. I likewise carried 
some of these enclosed pupee to Amsterdam, which 
after some days gnawed their way out of their webs, 
and produced some male ants ; this happened on the 
eighteenth of Julyf.*' It is obvious, therefore, that 
at least some species can extritate themselves with- 
out assistance ; though this seems to be the regular 
process. 

? Notes to Huber, p. 87. 
t Swammerdam, Biblia Nat, vol i. p. 130. 



 


We might have been led by analogy to suppose 
that bees would adopt a similar method of extricating 
their young ; but observation shows that they do 
not, for they break through their cocoon by means of 
their mandibles, at the same time forcing their way 
through the wax that is fastened down above to the 
web and bursting it into several jagged pieces, which 
they throw off on all sides. The other bees carry 
these broken pieces away, and clear the cells so tho- 
roughly as to make them quite smooth and even. 
The male, as well as the queen bees, force their way 
also out of their cells in the same manner as the 
common or working kind, and all undergo the same 
change*. But there is one very remarkable difference 
peculiar to the royal cocoons, first observed by the 
elder Huber, which well merits to be mentioned. 

A hive of bees is so essentially monarchical, that 
when more queens than one are produced they ex- 
hibit mutual and deadly animosity, which leads them 
to destroy one another. When there are several 
royal pupae, therefore, in a hive, the first transformed 
attacks the rest and stings them to death ; though, if 
these pupae were enveloped in complete cocoons, this 
murder could not be perpetrated ; — for the silk is of 
so close a texture, that the sting could not penetrate 
it; and if it did, the barbs would stick fast in the 
meshes, and the royal assailant, unable to retract her 
weapon, would become the victim of her own fury. 
In order, therefore, that she may destroy her rivals, 
it is necessary for the hinder rings to remain unco- 
vered, and on this account it is inferred the royal 
grubs spin only imperfect cocoons, open behind, and 
enveloping only the head, shoulders, and first ring of 
the abdomen. » 

H uber was exceedingly anxious to discover whe- 
ther the royal grubs spun their cocoons imperfect in 
consequence of a particular instinct, or of the greater 
* Swammerdam; vol. i. p. 187. 




width of the cells preventing them from stretching 
the thread up to the top. To ascertain this he dis- 
lodged several royal grubs about to spin their 
cocoons, and introduced them into glass cells blown 
of varying dimensions. “ They soon prepared to 
work/* he says, “ and commenced by stretching the 
fore part of the body in a straight line, while the 
other was bent in a curve, — thus forming an arc of 
which the sides of the cells afforded two points of 
support. It next directed the head to such parts of 
the cell as it could reach, and carpeted the surface 
with a thick bed of silk. I remarked that the threads 
were not carried from one side to another, which 
would have been impracticable, for the larvae, being 
obliged to support themselves, had to keep the pos- 
terior rings curved ; and the free and moveable part 
6f the body was not long enough to admit of the 
mouth reaching the opposite sides. The first expe- 
riments obviated the probability of any particular in- 
stinct in the royal larvae, and proved that they spin 
incomplete cocoons, because they are forced to do so 
by the figure of their cells. But desirous of evidence 
still more direct, I put them into cylindrical glass 
cells, where I had the satisfaction of seeing tliem 
spin complete cocoons in the same manner as the 
larvae of workers. In fine, I put plebeian larvae into 
very wide cells, and they left the cocoon open, as is 
done by the royal larvae. I also found that royal 
larvae, when lodged in artificial cells, where they can 
spin complete cocoons, undergo all their transfoi ma- 
tions equally well. Thus the necessity which nature 
imposes on them of leaving the cocoon open, is not 
on account of their increment ; nor does it appear to 
have any other object than that bf exposing them to 
the certainty of perishing by the wounds of their 
natural enemy ; — ^an observation truly new and sin^ 
giilar 


? Hub«r on Bees, p. 133. 




Expansion of the Body and Wings in Insects newly transformed. 

The mechanism by which winged insects, as well as 
birds, are enabled to support themselves in the air, is 
one of the most admirable instances of providential 
wisdom, to facilitate the locomotion and the distribu- 
tion of the smaller animals. The great agent em- 
ployed for this purpose is air, which is made to 
serve the double purpose of assisting in the assimi- 
lation of nutriment by the supply of oxygen and the 
removal of carbon, and of diminishing the weight of 
the body in order to render it buoyant. In birds, 
the lungs have several openings communicating with 
corresponding air-bags or cells which fill the whole 
cavity of the body from the neck downwards, and 
into which the air passes and repasses in the pro- 
cess of breathing. This is not all : the very bones of 
birds are hollowed out with the design of receiving 
air from the lungs, from which air-pipes are con- 
veyed to the most solid parts of the body, and even 
into the quills and plumelets of the feathers, which are 
hollow or spongy for its reception. As all these 
hollow parts, as well as the cells, are only open on 
the side communicating with the lungs, the bird 
requires only to tak§ in a full breath to fill and dis- 
tend its whole body with air, which, in consequence 
of the considerable heat of its body, is rendered much 
lighter than the air of the atmosphere. By forcing 
this air out of the body again, the weight becomes so 


 


much increased that birds of large size can dart down 
from great heights iu the air with astonishing velocity. 

In insects a similar mechanism occurs, though it 
is more difficult to trace it, on account of the great 
minuteness of the several organs ; but so far as ihe 
circumstances can be observed, they well merit our 
attention. The most remarkable nf these is the 
expansion of ihe body and wings on the perfect 
insect emerging from the pupa case. A very 
striking exemplification of this occurs in the trans- 
formation of the ant-lion (Myrmeieon formicarium), 
whose singular stratagems in the grub state are so 
familiar to the readers of books on natural history*. 
When it is about to change into a pupa it constructs 
a cocoon of sand, which it lines with a beautiful 
tapestry of silk, the whole being less than half an 
inch in diameter, the pupa itself, when rolled up, 
filling only a space of about half this dimension. 
When it has remained in the cocoon about three 
weeks, it breaks through the envelope and emerges to 
the outside, as the chrysalides of wood-borers make 
their way to the exterior of a tree to facilitate the exit 
of the perfect insect ; with this difference, that the 
nascent myrmeleon-fly makes use of its mandibles to 
gnaw the cocoon. When it has arrived on the out- 
side it only requires to expand its wings and body to 
complete its transformation. But this is the process 
most calculated to excite our admiration ; for though 
it is not on its emergence more than half an inch in 
length, it almost instantaneously stretches out to an 
inch and a quarter, while its wings, which did not 
exceed the sixth of an inch, acquire an immediate 
expansion of nearly three inches 

To the real wonders attending the history of this 
remarkable insect, it has been fancifully added, that, 
as it has cast off the spoils and cumbersome weight 
* See Insect Architecture/’ page 209, &c. 






of its first form, so is it likewise divested of its bar- 
barity and ravenous malignity ; but the formidable 
structure of its mandibles, as Rtkiuinur justly re» 
marks, evidently disprove this opinion. A lady dis- 
covered that it would eat fruit, and Rt^aumur ac- 
tually saw one munch part of a pear ; but he thinks 
that this is not its natural food*. Its close resem- 
blance, indeed, to the dragon-fiies (Libellulina)^ 
except in being more slow in flight, affords a strong 
analogical indication of its carnivorous propensities. 




a, Myrmeleon formknrivm, the fly of fhft ant rion. 6, the head 
mafi'nitied to thew the caliiper formed mandibles, c. the pupa, 
d, the pupa ekcaping; from its cocoon. 


A still more striking difference of size may be 
remarked in the pupa and the perfect insect of a lace- 
winged fly {Chrysopa Perla, Leach), by no means 
uncommon near London, and well known by its 
golden eyes and green wings t. The cocoon of this 

* Mem., vd. ri. p. 375. f See page 45. 


 


insect is not bigger than a small pea, while the fly is 
nearly an inch in length, and the expanse of the 
wings about two inches. 

In some aquatic insects this transformation is the 
more conspicuous from the change of element, the 
pupa emerging into the dry atmosphere, where the fly 
is evolved. In the case of the dragon-flies just men- 
tioned, the approaching change is evinced by the 
increasing transparency of the pupa, exhibiting the 
growing brilliancy of the large lustrous eyes of the in- 
cluded insect, which may be then brought into view 
by removing the envelope. At this period it may be 
seen removing out of the water to a dry place, such 
as a grassy bank or the stems of aquatic plants, into 
which it pushes its sharp claws, and remains for a 
short time immoveable. By the swelling of the 
upper part of the body the envelope is soon distended 
and burst asunder on the back of the head and 
shoulders, and, through the opening, first the head 
and then the legs of the perfect fly make their exit, 
whilst the empty slough of the legs continues fixed 
in its place. After this first part of the process is 
accomplished, it hsOigs down its head and rests for 
a space, as if exhausted by previous exertion, or 
rather to allow the newly excluded parts to dry and 
become more firm. It next erects itself, and laying 
hold of the upper part of the slough with its feet, 
pulls the parts still enveloped further out, then 
creeping forward by degrees, it disengages the en- 
tire body, and again rests for a time immoveable. 
The wings now begin to expand themselves, and 
their plaits and folds become gradually smooth. 
The body, also, becomes insensibly larger and 
longer, and the limbs acquire their just size and pro- 
portions. While the wings are undergoing this 
operation of drying and expanding, the insect takes 
care to keep them from coming into contact with the 




A, the drajcon fly, beginning to escape from the pupa ; a, the fly ; 
6, the pnpa case. B, the process further advanced ; c, the fly ; d, 
the pupa case. C, the fly nearly free, and forming an arch ; e, the 
» /» pupa case. I), the fly bending back its body, so as not 
to oMtruct the expansion of the wings. ¦ 



body, by bending itself into the form of a crescent ; 
for if they were obstructed, whilst wet, they could 
not afterwards be set to rights. 

All these changes are perfected, according to 
Swammerdam, by the force of the circulating fluids 
and the air, impelled by respiration, a fact of which, 
we think, there cannot be any doubt It is very 
seldom, however, that we can surprise insects at the 
precise moment of their transformation, as it is for 
the most part very speedily accomplished, for the 
whole of the preceding evolutions are usually com- 
pleted in ten or fifteen minutes. “ It happened by 
mere chance,** says Swammerdam, “ that I observed 
them for the first time : one of these verm ides 
adhered to a stone-wall in the river Loire, and it was 
so softened by the water dashing up against it, that it 
could only half perfect its change, so that I took it 
partly free and partly yet fixed in the skin. I once 
afterwards saw this change in the large kind of 
dragon-fly {Mshna f) which had crept to land out 
of a small lake, and cast its skin sitting in the 
grass * ’* 



a, newly-hstcbfd blow-fly inaKnified, shewing the jmlpy, 
eniinpled state of the wings, tlie wings, dry and fully ex* 
pand^ 


* BibL Nat., vol. i. p. 98. 






Some species of flies have their win^s shortened 
very considerably in the pupa state by zia^-zag or 
transverse folds ; so that, when newly e\olved, it 
might be supposed, from their moist and crumpled 
appearance, that they could never become so fine, 
gauzy, and translucent, as they are actually seen to 
do. This will be better understood from the above 
figures than by description. 

We have taken the preceding examples of expan- 
sion of the wings from those insects in which these 
are more or less transparent, and consequently the 
branching of the tubes {nervurex) through them is 
more obvious th^n in moths and butterflies, in 
which the wings are covered with feathery scales. 
It is, however, less rare to see the latter transformed 
than the former, from the greater facility of rearing 
them, and on that account, it may be proper to take 
some notice here of their transformation. We 
cannot in this find better guides than Swammerdam 
and the celebrated Italian anatomist, Malpighi, in 
his account of the silk-worm. “At length,” says 
the latter, “ within four days, the heart {dorsal vessel) 
of the silk-worm continues moving slowly, and the 
body growing bigger ; having thrown off the out- 
ward skin like a slough, the pupa appears a new 
creature. The throwing off the old and assuming 
this new form, is completed in the space of one 
minute and ten seconds ; and it is thus done, as I 
chanced to see it. The motion of the heart {dorsal 
vessel) is very quick at first, and the whole frame of 
the body appears convulsed ; so that the several cir- 
cular folds of the segments emerge, and by the 
transverse contraction of the sides, the external 
skin is separated from the inner; hence, upon 
making an effort, and thrusting the body, which now 
appears particularly thick towards the head, the skin 




is driven backward and downward ; and the portions 
of the windpipe being separated from their external 
proper orifices, are thrown away with the skin which 
is then cast off. By this motion, a cleft or opening 
is made in the back near the head, and through the 
aperture the body makes its way, the skin being by 
degrees drawn back towards the tail. This process 
is assisted greatly by a yellow kind of ichor which 
exudes from the cavities of the skull ; and the pupa 
appears then free and disengaged. 

“ While the insect is making its passage out, the 
antennae are separated from the body of the pupa, 
and are torn, as it were, out of two cavities of the 
skull ; and their length, as they become unfolded, 
occupies the same place which the two muscles of the 
mandibles formerly occupied. The wings, also, and 
the legs appear to be circumscribed in their limits ; 
the wings being drawn from their situation near the 
fore-legs, and the legs from the lateral parts of the 
back. But as these unfolded parts are yet mucous, 
they easily stick to each other, and, insensibly grow- 
ing dry, they become so closely united that the pupa 
appears like one entire garment. Now as these parts 
are peculiar to the moths, and are destined for their 
use, the nature of the moths seems to be to emerge 
sooner from the state of the caterpillar than is com- 
monly believed, and also to be earlier implanted 
in it ; for evidently, in the silk-worm, the beginnings 
of the wings may be seen under the second and 
third ring of the body, before the texture of the 
web. The antennae are likewise delineated on the 
skull, and the web being finished, they have their 
own termination ; nor will it be improper to suppose 
that the new kind of life in the pupa is only a mask 
or veil of the moth, which is already perfect within, 
the intent of which is, that it should not be struck or 


 

destroyed by external injuries, but might grow strong 
and ripen*” 

While the little creature remains in this condition, 
there is produced, as Swammerdam tells us, a vio* 
lent agitation in its fluids, so that they are driven 
from the internal vessels through the tubes in the 
wings, which are likewise supplied with air from the 
windpipe. The insect, besides, labours violently with 
its legs, and all these motions concurring with the 
growth of the wings, it is impossible that the tender 
skill which covers it should not at length give way, 
which it does by bursting in four distinct and regular 
pieces. When the legs become disengaged they 
much assist in freeing the body and other parts that 
are yet bound up ; at the same time, the skin on the 
back flies open and uncovers the wings and shoulders. 
The insect, after this, remains for sometime in a state 
of rest, with its wings drooping down hke wet paper, 
and its legs fixed in the skin which it has just cast 
off, together with the lining of the windpipe and 
breathing spiracles. This latter circumstance enables 
the insect to take more air into its body, and thereby 
renders it the better able to fly, and perform the 
other functions dependant on a good supply of air. 
In consequence of this the wings expand so rapidly, 
that it is by no means easy to trace their unfold- 
ing ; for in the space of a few minutes, they increase 
in dimensions about five-fold. Their spots and 
colours at the same time, previously so small as to 
be scarcely discernible, become proportionally ex- 
tended, so that what but a few minutes before ap- 
peared as a number of confused and indistinct points, 
acquires many varied beauties of colour and form. 
From the wings extending themselves so suddenly, 
their soft wrinkled appearance is, in less than half 
? Malpighi, De Bombyce. 

 


an hour, no longer visible, and the insect becomes 
fitted for flight*. 

Kirby, in speaking of the swallow-tailed butterfly 
(Papilio Machaon)^ says, “ I had the pleasure of 
seeing it leave its puparium the 16 th of May. With 
great care I placed it upon my arm, where it kept 
pacing about for the space of more than an hour ; 
when all its parts appearing consolidated and deve- 
loped, and the animal perfect in beauty, I secured it, 
though not without great reluctance, for my cabinet 
—it being the only living specimen of this fine fly I 
had ever seen. To observe how gradual, and yet 
how rapid, was the developement of the parts and 
organs, and particularly of the wings, and the perfect 
coming forth of the colour and spots, as the sun gave 
vigour to it, was a most interesting spectacle. At 
first, it was unable to elevate or even move its wings; 
but in proportion as the aerial or other fluid was 
forced by the motions of its trunk into their nervures, 
their numerous corrugations and folds gradually 
yielded to the action till they had gained their greatest 
extent, and the film between all the nervures became 
tense. The ocelli, and spots and bars, which appeared 
at first as but germs or rudiments of what they were 
to be, grew with the growing wing, and shone forth 
upon its complete expansion in full magnitude and 
beauty t.” 

The probable object of the movements which an 
insect makes, upon just escaping from the chrysalis, 
is to impel the fluids that had been compressed 
during its confinement, and more particularly air, 
into the various parts of the expanding body and 
wings. The wings, it may be remarked, are not, on 
the exclusion of the insect, folded up as are the long 
wings of an earwig {Forjicula auricularia)^ but are 
• Swammerdam, ii. 7, &c. f Intr. iii. 293. 





of a thick structure and easily expanded. They differ in 
this from full-formed wings, which cannot be stretched 
a hair’s breadth without tearing them ; whereas we 
have taken the wing of a butterfly on its emerging 
from the chrysalis, and extended it to four times its 
original expansion. That the fluids of the body are 
at this period impelled into the wings, is proved by 
an experiment first tried, we believe, by Swammer- 
dam, on the wings of bees. “ The blood in the bee,” 
he says, “.is a limpid fluid, as maybe observed, if a 
little part be at this time cut off from the wings ; for 
then the fluid exudes from the cut part, appearing, by 
reason of the extreme smallness of the blood-vessels, 
under the form of little pellucid globules, which in- 
sensibly and by degrees increase into considerable 
little drops.” — “ The wings of the bee have likewise 
many pulmonary tubes, which, when the nymph is 
casting its last skin, have also, together with all the 
other parts, once more to throw off* their exuvise. 
After this, when these tubes are again distended by 
the freshly impelled air, and the air-vessels, which 
have hitherto been contracted, are inflated and dis- 
tended with the same air, it follows that the whole 
wing afterwards expands itself, and becomes thrice, 
nay, four times larger than it was before. This 
expansion of the wings depends, therefore, both upon 
the impulsion of the air and of the blood ; for at the 
same time when the air is impelled into the wings, a 
considerable quantity of blood is likewise driven into 
the vessels of the wings.” — “ The female bees do not, 
as the common bees and the male, come forth with 
their wings folded up, but expanded and displayed, 
and in a state ready for flight. On this account, the 
all-wise Author of Nature has provided for them a 
more spacious mansion, in which they may expand 
their wings conveniently and properly ; so that after 
they have burst from their cells they may be pre- 





pared forswarmingf immediately, if there be a necessity 
for it, or that the youn^ queen may be in a condi- 
tion to drive out her royal mother and take her place 
if there be occasion*.” 

It does not appear, however, that Swammerdam 
proved by dissection the simultaneous existence of 
air and blood vessels in the wings, but merely infers 
this, as Reaumur afterwards did, from the phenomena. 
Blit Jurine has since actually demonstrated that every 
vein (nervure) of a wing contains an air-tube, which 
originates in the windpipe, and follows in a serpen- 
tine form, without filling, every branchlet of the 
nervures. Those who have not paid attention to this 
curious subject have little conception of the great 
diversity of forms which are exhibited by the branch- 
ings of these nervures, not only in different orders, 
but even in different species of insects. They differ, 
indeed, as much in this respect as the leaves of plants 
do in their mode of veining. 



Wiogs of insectti a, wiog of » beetle ; 6, wing of an earwig ; 
c, wing of a saw fly; d, wing of a crane fly ; e, wing of a com- 
mon fly (^Musca) ; /, wing of a midge iPsychuda). 


* Swammerdam, i. 187. 






In moths and butterflies the nervures are in a ^reat 
measure concealed by the feathery scales but when 
these are removed they are rendered apparent, and 
appear to resemble in some measure the arrangement 
observed in the two-winged flies. To this arrange- 
ment there occurs a remarkable exception in the 
family of plumed moths (^AlucitideB, Leach), of 
which Stephens enumerates twenty-nine British 
species. One of the most common of these is the 
large white plume (Pterophorus pentadactylus^ 
Leach), which maybe seen, during the summer, in 
hedges and gardens, flitting about like a tuft of down 
or a snow-white feather dropt from the breast of the 
eider duck. From being slow in its motions it is 
easily taken; but if rudely handled all its snowy 
plumage will come off. Another of the family, also 
very common, is the twenty-plume moth {Alucita 
hexadactyla^ Leach), which may be seen from March 



a, the twenty-plume moth. 6, the same magnified, c, the white 
plume moth. 

till October, on windows and the walls of rooms, or, 
still more probably, on the leaves of honey-suckles, 




on which its caterpillar feeds. Relaumur, who had 
never found the caterpillar, thought that so delicate 
an insect could not exist out of doors during the bleak 
weather of spring; and concludes that it feeds like 
the clothes nioth.in>doors — an instance among hun- 
dreds more how frequently our most plausible reason- 
ings are far removed from the facts. This moth is so 
small that it is not ready to catch the eye of those who 
are unacquainted with it, and even when it is found 
it requires a magnifying-glass to perceive all its 
beauties. 

The movements of insects just escaped from the 
chrysalis appear, then, to be analogous in their design 
to the restless motions of the young of larger animats. 
In Darwin’s fanciful language, the accumulation of 
excitability in the sensorium impels the creature to 
be frisky for the purpose of getting rid of the super- 
abundant stimulus ; but whatever the exciting cause 
may be, we are certain that the final cause and certain 
effect is the brisker impulsion of fluids, and particu- 
larly air, through the vessels appropriated to their 
circulation, and consequently the more perfect 
nourishment and speedy growth of the several mem- 
bers. The analogy between the larger animals and 
insects is, that th« latter, when they have undergone 
their last change from the pupa into the perfect 
insect, never increase in size, as the former remain 
stationary soon after puberty. 

We notice this the more readily, as those who are 
but little acquainted with insects are exceedingly 
apt to think they grow like other animals, and from 
this cause commit many mistakes, not perhaps of 
great moment, but which in a work like this it may 
prove interesting to rectify. “ The most common 
British butterflies,” it has been remarked, “ most 
persons may have observed to be those which are 
white; and all these are usually looked upon as 





of the same species, differing in nothing, except, 
perhaps, in the size ; the latter being erroneously 
ascribed to difference of age. But the fact is, that 
there are a considerable number of species of our 
white butterflies, as well as several genera, and pro- 
bably more varieties even of these than have yet been 
ascertained or described. It is certain, indeed, that 
butterflies do not, like the larger animals, increase 
in size as they grow older; for every individual, 
from the moment it becomes a butterfly, continues 
invariably of the same size till its death. Butter- 
flies, indeed, seldom live longer than a few days, or 
at most a few weeks, and during this time they eat 
little, except a sip of honey : and since this is so, it 
would be absurd to expect that they could increase in 
size. It must not, however, be understood from this, 
that the same species will always measure or weigh 
precisely the same ; for though this will hold as a 
general rule, there are many exceptions, arising from 
the accidents the caterpillar may have suffered from 
which an individual butterfly originated. It is only 
during the caterpillar state that the insect eats vora- 
ciously, and grows in proportion ; and if it is, during 
this stage of its existence, thrown upon short allow- 
ance, it cannot acquire the standard magnitude, and 
the butterfly will be dwarfed from the first. The 
same remarks with respect to growth apply to insects 
of every kind, and the fact cannot be better exemplified 
than in the uniformity of size in the house fly {Mvsca 
domeslica) among which scarcely one individual in a 
thousand will be found to differ a hair’s breadth in 
dimensions from its fellows*.’* 

We may add, that there are many flies occasion- 
ally found in houses both larger and smaller than the 
Mvsca domestica, but these are of a different spe- 

• J. Rennie on the White Butterflies of Britain, Mag. Nat. Hist. 
Tol. ii. p. 225. 






cies, and not, as is popularly believed, the old or 
the young of the house fly; no more than the mid- 
summer ( Zanihenmia solstitial^, Leach) 

is the young of the common cockchafer (Melolontka 
vulgaris). It would be equally correct to say that 
an ass is the young of a blood-horse, or a mouse the 
young of a rat. Nor is this mistake confined merely 
to popular belief, for we find it not only stated in 
books of natural history, but reasons assigned for its 
correctness. “It is held by some apiarians,” says 
Huish, “ that the bee, in emerging from its cell, has 
attained its full growth ; I would, however, recom- 
mend to those gentlemen to try to thrust either a 
bee or a drone into one of the breeding-cells, and 
he will find that the capacity of their bodies is too 
large for the dimensions of the celP.” This experi- 
ment would not, of course, succeed ; but that does 
not prove the doctrine, for the author does not take 
into consideration the great quantity of air by which 
the body is distended ; and even if this were ex- 
pelled by putting the bee under the exhausted 
receiver of an air-pump, the wings and other parts, 
now become dry and rigid, could not be folded up 
in the very compact manner in which they existed in 
the pupa state. 

Tile fact of the expansion of the wings by the 
impulsion of air and fluids into their nervures, 
may be illustrated by the accidental circumstances 
into which chrysalides may fall. We have men- 
tioned in a preceding page, that the thread by which 
a chrysalis is suspended may sometimes snap asun- 
der. When this happens, and the chrysalis is allowed 
to remain, it will not usually produce an insect com- 
plete in all its parts ; for the side upon which it lies 
being pressed against an unyielding substance by its 
own weight, instead of hanging lightly suspended 
* Huish on Bees, p. 43. 





by R silken cord, is prevented from becoming duly 
expanded, and when the insect is excluded it is found 
to be deformed. This might by some be imagined 
to be a mere theoretical view deduced from physio- 
logical reasoning; but we can prove it by specimens 
of moths and butterflies which we have reared. A 
colony of the brown- tail moth (Portheda aurijlua)^ 
which we reared during the summer of 1829, spun in 
the corner of a nurse-box a common web of several 
chambers for containing the pupae. One of these 
chambers being accidentally torn, a pupa fell upon 
the earth in the bottom of the box, and in due time a 
female moth was produced from it ; but she never 
succeeded in expanding her wings, which remained 
till her death shrunk, rumpled, and totally useless for 
the purpose of flying, though in every other respect 
she was full grown, and deposited in the box a group 
of fertile eggs, covered with down from her tail as 
neatly as was done by her sisters of the same brood. 
In the summer of 1825, the chrysalis of a small tor- 
toiseshell butterfly (Vanessa UrticceJ lost its hold of 
its silken suspensory, and fell upon the pasteboard 
bottom of a nurse-box, resting in a sort of angular 
position, so that the case of the upper wing on the 
left side pressed upon the box with the whole weight 
of the chrysalis above it. When the butterfly made 
its appearance, it expanded its wings as usual, but 
the wing upon which it had rested was not half the 
size of the one on the right side which had lain 
uppermost. Another of the same brood had by 
some cause not grown so large in the caterpillar 
state as the rest. It was transformed, notwithstand- 
ing, into a chrysalis, which appeared healthy and 
well formed ; but when the butterfly appeared, though 
it did not ditier from the usual appearance, its wings 
never expanded a single liair’s breadth, and remained 




always in the same state as when it issued from the 
chrysalis*. 



0, Vnnetfa utiica^ with one wlnff imperfect, h, brown-tlil 
moth, Purthcsia auriflua, with vhriTelied wings, c, Fanesia vrttcce, 
with unexpanded wings. 


It is not a little remarkable, that when insects are 
evolved from the pupa state, they always discharge 
some substance. It is important to remark, that the 
matter voided at this period by many butterflies {Va- 
nessa, &c.) is of a red colour, resembling blood, while 
that of several moths is orange or whitish. It could 
not readily be supposed that this should become the 
object of superstitious terror, yet so it has been in 
more instances than one. M outlet tells us, from 
Sleidan, that in the year 1553 a prodigious multitude 
of butterflies swarmed throughout a great portion of 
Germany, and sprinkled plants, leaves, buildings, 
clothes, and men, with bloody drops as if it had rained 
blood t. Several historians, indeed, have recorded 
showers of blood among the prodigies which have 
struck nations with consternation, as the supposed 
omen of the destruction of cities and the overthrow 
of empires. About the beginning of July, 1608, one 
of these showers of blood was supposed to have fallen 
* J.R. f Mouflet, Theatr. Ins. 107* 






In the suburbs of Alx. and for many miles around 
it. and particularly the walls of a churchyard were 
spotted with the blood. This occurrence would, no 
doubt, have been chronicled in history as a super- 
natural prodigj, had not Aix possessed at this time, 
in M. Peiresc, a philosopher, who, in the eager pur- 
suit of all kinds of knowledge, had not neglected the 
study of insects. It is accordingly related, in the 
curious life of Peiresc by Gassendi, that he had, 
about the time of the rumoured shower of blood, 
happened to find a large chrysalis, the beauty of 
which made him preserve it in a box. Some time 
after, hearing a noise in the box, he opened it and 
found a fine butterfly, which had left upon the bottom 
a red stain of considerable magnitude, and apparently 
of exactly the same nature with the drops on the stones, 
popularly supposed to be blood. He remarked, at 
the same time, that there were countless numbers of 
butterflies flying about, which confirmed him in the 
belief of his having discovered the true cause ; and 
this was further corroborated by his finding none of 
the red drops in the heart of the city, where the butter- 
flies were rarely seen. He also remarked, that the 
drops were never on tiles, and seldom on the upper 
part of a stone, as they must have been had they 
fallen from the heavens, but usually appeared in 
cavities and parts protected by some angular projec- 
tion. What Peiresc had thus ascertained, he lost 
no time in disclosing to many persons of knowledge 
and curiosity, who had been puzzling themselves to 
account for the circumstance by far-fetched reason- 
ings, such as a supposed vapour which had carried 
up a supposed red earth into the air that had tinged 
the rain ; — no less wide of the truth than the popular 
superstition which ascribed it to magic, or to the 
devil himself^. Those who are curious to verify the 
* R^aumur^ voi. i. p. 638. 




discovery, as we may well call it, of Peiresc, may 
easily do so by rearing any of the spinous caterpillars 
which feed on the nettle till they are transformed into 
the butterfly. We have witnessed the circumstance 
in innumerable instances. 

It is a curious and interesting probability, that the 
crimson snow of the Alpine and Arctic regions, which 
has recently excited so much scientific inquiry, should 
be referable to a somewhat similar cause, — a circum- 
stance which will apologize for our taking some notice 
of it here by way of illustration. According to 
Professor Agardh, red snow is very common in all 
the alpine districts of Europe, and is probably of the 
same nature w^ith that brought from the polar regions 
by Captain Ross. Saussure saw it in abundance on 
Mont Brevern, in Switzerland, and elsewhere ; 
Ramond found it on the Pyrenees ; and Sommerfeldt 
in Norway. In March, 1808, the whole country 
about Cadone, Belluno, and Feltri, is reported to 
have been covered in a single night with rose-coloured 
snow ; and at the same time a similar shower was 
witnessed on the mountains of Valtelin, Brescia, 
Carinthia, and Tyrol. But the most remarkable red 
snow shower was that which fell on the night between 
the 14th and Ibth of March, 1823, in Calabria^ 
in Abruzzo, in Tuscany, at Bologna, and through the 
whole chain of the Apennines. 

Upon the return of Captain Ross from the Polar 
expedition some years ago, the specimens of red 
snow which he brought home were examined by 
three of our most distinguished observers, Wollaston, 
Bauer, and Robert Brown, w'ho all came to the 
conclusion that it was of a vegetable nature, but 
diftered as to its botanical characteristics. Dr. 
Wollaston supposed it to be the seed of some moss ; 
Mr. Brown was inclined to consider it an algse, re- 
lated to Tremella cruentay a common native plant ; 





while Mr. Bauer thought it was a fungus of the genus 
Uredo. Professor Agardh refers it with Brown to 
the lowest order of algse, but standing as a distinct 
genus upon the very limits of the animal and vegeta- 
ble kingdoms. Saussure, indeed, from finding that 
the red snow of the Alps gave out, when burnt, a 
smell like that of plants, concluded that it was of 
vegetable origin, and supposed it to consist of the 
farina of some plant, though he could not trace it to 
its source. Baron Wrangel, again, who discovered a 
production similar or identical with Agardh’s Proto- 
€occus nivalis growing upon limestone rocks, men- 
tions that it was easily detached when placed under 
water, and in three days it was converted into ani- 
mated globules like infusory animalcules, which 
swam about and were made prey of by other infusoria. 
Professor Nees von Esenbeck, of Bonn, is inclined 
to think that the minute red globules, of which 
the Protococcus consists, are the vegetable state of 
bodies which had gone through a previous animal 
existence. 

The Rev. W. Scoresby, on the other hand, conjee 
lures that the red colour of the snow may be traced 
to the same cause as the orange- coloured ice of the 
polar seas, which arises from innumerable minute 
animals belonging to the Radiata, and similar to the 
Beroe globulosa oi' L’dnmrvk. It is about the size of 
a pin’s head, transparent, and marked with twelve 
brownish patches of dots. In olive-green sea water, 
he estimated 110,592 of these in a cubic foot*. 

Agardh remarks, that it is agreed upon all hands 
that the crimson snow always falls in the night, from 
which he infers that it has not been actually seen to 
fall. He thinks it is called into existence by the vivi- 
fying power of the sun’s light, after its warmth has 
caused the snow to dissolve, accompanied by the 
* JaiMson’t Bdin. Jouro., Jan. 1829, p. 55. 

 

incomprehensible power in white snow of producing 
a colour*. 

Rt^aumur says, with much justice, on another oc- 
casion, that an ordinary spectator frequently discovers 
what has escaped the notice of the best observers, 
and so it should seem it has happened in the present 
case, — the learned naturalists just mentioned having 
gone as wide of the facts, as the philosophers at Aix 
in accounting for the supposed shower of blood. 
Mr. Thomas Nicholson, accompanied with two other 
gentlemen, made an excursion the 24th July, 1821, 
to Sowallick Point, near Bushman’s Island, in Prince 
Regent’s Bay, in quest of meteoric iron. “ The 
summit of the hill,” he says, “ forming the point, is 
covered with huge masses of granite, whilst the side 
which forms a gentle declivity towards the bay was 
covered with crimson snow. It was evident, at first 
view, that this colour was imparted to the snow by a 
substance lying on the surface. This substance lay 
scattered here and there in small masses, bearing 
some resemblance to powdered cochineal, surrounded 
by a lighter shade, which was produced by the co- 
louring matter being partly dissolved and diffused by 
the deliquescent snow. During this examination our 
hats and upper garments were observed to be daubed 
with a substance of a similar red colour, and a mo- 
ment’s reflection convinced us that this was the excre- 
ment of the little auk ( Uria alle^ Temminck), my- 
riads of which were continually flying over our heads, 
having their nests among the loose masses of granite. 
A ready explanation of the origin of the red snow 
was now presented to us, and not a doubt remained 
in the mind of any that this was the correct one. 
The snow on the mountains of higher elevation than 
the nests of these birds was perfectly white, and a ra- 
vine at a short distance, which was filled with snow 
* liOudon's Encycl. of Plants^ Pfvtococcus,^ 





from top to bottom, but which afforded no hiding-place 
for these birds to form their nests, presented an ap- 
pearance uniformly white*.” 

This testimony seems to be as clear and indisput- 
able as the explanation given by Peiresc of the 
ejecta of the butterflies at Aix. But though it will 
account, perhaps, for the red snow of the polar re- 
gions, it will not explain that of the Alps, the Apen- 
nines, and the Pyrenees, which are not, so far as we 
know, visited by the little auk. Thus the matter at 
present rests, till it be elucidated by further obser- 
vations. 

* Mag. of Nat. Hist. vol. ii. p. 322. 



NeTHiNG that has life seems capable of existing long 
without motion. The oyster fixed upon the rock 
must open and shut its shell, and the most gnarled 
oak must wave its branches, otherwise their fluids 
will stagnate, and disease will ensue. In our own 
case, we cannot, if we would, put a stop for any 
length of time to all our motions. We have the 
power, indeed, of interrupting the nictitation of the 
eyelids ; but if we keep our eyes fixed for a few mi- 
nutes they become dry and painful for want of the 
regular sufjply of moisture spread over them by the 
process of winking. Breathing, again, being a more 
important operation, cannot be long inlerruyited, 
without serious consequences ; and when the motion 
of any of the limbs is prevented by the accidental 
injury of its joint, it usually shrinks and dwindles 
into less than half its natural magnitude, because the 
proper quantity of the nutritive fluids is not impelled 
thither in consequence of its deficiency of motion. 

We have already seen how indispensable the mo- 
tions of insects are to the due expanding of their 
wings upon emerging from the pupa state; and 
several remarkable circumstances show that, inde- 
pendent of change of place in search «)f food or of 
other localities for their progeny, motion is necessary 
to their well-being. At least there does not seem 
any other plausible explication of what we may term 
stationary motions. Kirby and Spence’s “ motions of 
insects reposing*,” appears to be a phrase which 
would not apply, for example, to an ox chewing the 
cud, or a cat washing her face with her paw, — mo- 
tions precisely similar to many of those of insects 
* Introd. vol. ii. p. 304. 




mentioned by them under this head. The mode 
adopted by cats of cleaning themselves with their 
paws, is, indeed, not a little similar to that of the 
house fly (Musca domestica), which, while it is bask- 
ing in a window and enjoying the heat of the sun, 
may be frequently seen not only brushing its feet 
upon one another to rub off the dust, but equally 
assiduous in cleaning its eyes, head, and corslet with 
its fore-legs, while it brushes its wings with its hind- 
legs*. At the time of writing this, March, 1830, 
we have just witnessed a similar process in a water 
measurer {Hydromeira stagnorum^ Latr.), which 
we had put into a glass containing water, with a 
leaf for it to rest upon. Not liking the narrow pool 
in the glass so well as the brook at Lee, from which 
it had been taken, it began to climb the edges of the 
glass, for which its feet were far from being well 
adapted, and it slipped at every step ; but, deter- 
mined not to be baulked, after several unsuccessful 
trials, it betook itself to the leaf as if to survey the 
obstacles before it again attempted the steep ascent. 
After deliberating for a moment, the thought seemed 
to strike it that its feet were not in the best trim for 
climbing ; and it forthwith began with great assiduity 
to clean them somewhat in a similar way to the fly 
by wiping them upon one another, but with this dif- 
ference, that it did not, like the fly, cross its legs from 
opposite sides, the length and rigidity of the thighs 
preventing such a movement. It did not forget at 
the same time to clean with much care its long an- 
tennae, in order, no doubt, to fit them the better for 
exploring an unknown path. It spent several mi- 
nutes in this preliminary trimming, when it again be- 
gan to mount, and we were no less pleased, perhaps, 
than itself, to see its perseverance rewarded; for, 
aided either by the greater cleanness of its feet, or by 
* iSee Insect Architecture, p* 368. 




some particles of slime and sand adhering to the 
glass, it triumphantly gained the brim, which it began 
to perambulate with an apparent air of proud exul- 
tation *. This insect is figured at 6, page 3S2. 

The process of cleaning and brushing the legs, as 
birds are seen to preen their feathers, is, however, 
the most remarkable, though, perhaps, but seldom 
taken notice of among spiders. The same process, as 
we have recently discovered, is employed by the Pha- 
langia. The apparatus for this is admirably con- 
trived. In the common garden geometric spider 
{Epeira diadem a), the teeth are used as a comb, 
the smooth mandible being employed to hold down 
the limb while it is slowly drawn between the teeth, 
to free it from flue and dust. In some other species, 
instead of smooth teeth, there is a thick-set brush 
of hairs, which is used in the same manner, and 
must be a still more efficient instrument. The former, 
if we do not mistake, chiefly occurs among the 
geometric spiders, whose webs are meshed and thin ; 
while the brush prevails among those which weave 
thick webs, such as the red spider {Dysdera try- 
ihrina, Walckenaeh), which we found in the cre- 
vice of a chalk rock near Erith, in Kent, but which is 
by no means common in Britain, though abundant in 
France. We kept this one for some time in a glass, 
and observed that it spent the greater part of its 
time in brushing its legs. The eyes are placed in 
form of a horse- shoe f. 

It must have struck those who have visited a 
menagerie of wild animals, that, even while they are 
standing in their cages, they frequently throw their 
heads, and also their bodies, into a sort of oscillatory 
movement, evidently not for the purpose of getting 
through the bars, but to supply the place of their 
Ratur^ exercise which conhuement prevents them 
? J. R. t K 







^ red spider (Dyiiera erythrina). 6, the head 6f the red 
spider, magiiitied. c c, the mandibles, fringed on the inside with 
hair, d, the eight eyes, in form of a horse-shoe, e, the head of 
the garden spider \Aranea diadema). fjf, the eight eyes. 
g gt the upper mandibles. A, tojtbed comb. 

from taking*. Perhaps this may help us to account 
for the singular motions of some of the crane flies 
(Tipulid(B)j while stationary upon a window or a 
wall, their whole body vibrating alternately outwards 
and inwards from the wall, with a pendulum-like 
movement, as rapid, or more so, than the clicking of 
a Watch. Kirby and Spence say, this is produced by 
the weight of their bodies and the elasticity of their 
legs ; and that, unless it be connected with respira- 
tion, it is not easy to say what is its object^. To us 
it appears, like the motion of the caged animals just 
mentioned, to be for the purpose of exercising them- 
selves and of driving the fluids into their long legs, 
which may not be ettected in the exercise of flying on 
account of their legs then remaining almost motion- 
less. Others of the same family may be seen hang- 
ing from a wall or ceiling by their fore-legs, whde the 
hind ones are perked out into the air, and moving up 
and down in a slow manner, probably to watch against 
approaching danger, as they are very timid ; and if 
the door of the room where they are be hastily opened 
or shut, or if any other agitation of the air be pttH 

Intr. ii. 306. 

 


duced, they immediately fly o(F*. The long-legged 
spiders, popularly called shepherds and harvest men 
(PhalangidtB, Leach), have a similar mode of ele- 
vating their legs, particularly the second pair, which 
they move about in all directions. 



a, Phalangium ; 6, Hi/drometra stagnorunit magnified. 

It can scarcely have escaped the remark of the 
most indifferent observer, that when butterflies (par- 
ticularly those of the genus Vanessa) alight during 
sunshine on a leaf or a pathway, they flirt their 
wings as a lady does her fan, and perhaps, as has 
been conjectured, for the similar purpose of cooling 
their bodies. But to us it appears more probably with 
the design of impelling air into the tubes of their 
wings to fit them the better for flight ; for we have 
remarked that they uniformly fan their wings when 
about to rise, though they had previously remained 
motionless for an hour together. A pretty family of 
two-winged flies {Syrphid(E'\) may frequently be 
remarked in lanes and on the borders of woods, 
hovering on the wing for a considerable time without 
shifting a hair's-breadth from their place, though the 
motion of their wings is all the while so rapid as to 
be almost imperceptible, similar to some moths 
{Sphingida, Plusia gammaXy whilst sipping 
? J. R. f Seep, 4. • t See p. 214. 




the honey of flowers. The vibratory motion of the 
wings in these instances is only to buoy them up so 
as to retain their place; but the instant they are 
alarmed by the approach of danger, they may be 
seen to take several long slrokes with their wings, 
and dart off with the rapidity of lightning. This is 
well illustrated by the motions of birds preparatory 
to flight, as they may be observed always to take se- 
veral deep inspirations, at the same time often rising 
on tiptoe, and puffing out and balancing their bodies 
to feel whether they have thrown enough air into 
their bones and feathers to float them along. Birds 
of prey (Raptores^ Vigors) seem to have the 
greatest power both of filling their bodies with air 
and of expelling it again at pleasure. Hence the kes- 
tril (Falco tinnuncxdus) may be seen floating about 
for a considerable time without moving a wing, or per- 
haps drawing a breath, till it can hold out no longer, 
when it flutters its wings rapidly, not for moving to 
a different place, for it remains stationary, but to 
recover its decreasing buoyancy by inhaling a fresh 
supply of air. For the same reason a trout will 
oscillate its body when losing ground by the rapidity 
of a stream. The osprey {Falco ossifragus), on the 
other hand, we have seen, at the Kyles of Bute and 
elsewhere, shoot down like a thunderbolt from the 
air into the sea, plunging far into the water upon a 
fish she had marked for her prey^, — a movement only 
to be explained by the rapid expulsion of the air 
which had been the chief agent in keeping her pre- 
viously afloat in the region of the clouds. Many 
birds which prey on smaller game have somewhat 
similar methods of poising and balancing their 
bodies, of which the water-ouzel {Cinclus aquaticus^ 

* ‘‘Super est Haliaetos,” says Pliny, “clarissimsl oculorum 
acie, librans ex alto sese, visoque in inari pisce, pra^cepa in eum 
ruens, et discussis aquis, rapiens.’*— //{«/. Nat, 




Bechstein) furnishes a good example, putting itself 
in a constant state of preparation, jerking its pie- 
bald head up and down as it skips from stone to 
stone of the brook, to pounce under water upon the 
first grub it espies swimming. In the same way 
the red-breast (Sylvia rubeeula) pops jerking about 
when on the look-out for caterpillars ; and so habitual 
does this become, that he does not fail to go through 
the manoeuvre when he pecks up a crumb at the cot- 
tage door, as well as when he pounces upon a cater- 
pillar in the woods, where it is often indispensable to 
secure the aim to prevent the insect putting in force 
some stratagem of escape*. 

We may next turn to a small two-winged fly, 
which, though equally common in gardens and else- 
where with the fanning butterflies {Vanessts) just 
alluded to, we can scarcely (considering its size) ex- 
pect to have attracted the notice of tliose who pay 
little attention to insects. We allude to the vibrating 
fly (Seioptera vihravs^ Kirby), which is not above a 
third of the size of the house-fly, but may be known 
by its shining black body, scarlet head, and transpa- 
rent wings, tipped with black. This tiny little crea- 
ture whether it trips over a leaf, or remains sta- 
tionary basking in the sunshine, is continually vi- 
brating its wings. “This motion,’^ says Kirby, “I 
have reason to think, assists its respiration but as 
he has not stated his reason, we are led, from an 
experiment which we tried, to doubt the conclusion. 
Having always seen the fly vibrating its wings in 
the sunshine only, as if it enjoyed the warmth and 
rejoiced in the feeling of existence, we wished to see 
how it would comport itself at night, and enclosed 
one under an inverted wine glass for observation. 
The conjecture which we had formed appeared to be 
correct ; for though, when moving about the glass, 
?J.R. 


 


it vibrated its wings as much by candle-light as in 
the sunshine, probably from the habit of associating 
the two movements, yet, whenever it remained sta- 
tionary, it kept the wings motionless. Had the 
motion been indispensable to respiration, and analo- 
gous to the motion of the gills of fish, or the panting 
in the anal scale of the water-louse (Asellus aqua- 
ticus^ Leach), this cessation would not have taken 
place at night. 

We are, therefore, perhaps justified in concluding 
that the vibration of the wings in this little fly is an 
indication of being pleased ; in the same way as a 
nestling sparrow, when fed by its dam, will half 
stretch its wings, and, as Thomson finely expresses 
it, will 

Quiver eveiy feather with desire 

or as a lamb when sucking will vibrate its tail, as 
well as the pretty birds popularly termed wagtails 
{Motacillce), when they perambulate the margin of a 
stream and find a plentiful banquet of insects to 
their liking. 

It may prove still more interesting, we think, to 
turn our attention to some other movements of in- 
sects which seem to be expressive of pleasure when 
they are not stationary, and leaving out of considera- 
tion, also, their foraging for food. A familiar in- 
stance of what we allude to (occurs in the aerial 
dances of the tipulidan gnats and some other in- 
sects. These are performed not only in summer, but 
frequently even in winter and in the earlier months 
of spring, — in sheltered places, indeed, such as under 
trees and hedges, in lanes, and when a day chances 
to be finer than usual, though the mildest day is of 
course at these seasons comparatively chill. The 
most common of these winter dancers is called by 
Harris the tell-tale {Trichocera hiemalis, Meigen), a 




troop of which may be occasionally seen gamboling 
in a sunny nook, though the ground be covered with 
snow. When the weather is warm and mild, how- 
ever, the dancing TipxdidfB prefer the decline of day; 
and we have remarked them keeping it up as long 
as we could distinguish them between the eye and 
the waning light of the western horizon : how much 
longer they continued to dance we cannot tell. 

It is a very singular fact connected with these 
gnat dances, that the company always consists exclu- 
sively of males. This any person who will take the 
trouble may verify by enclosing a group of them in 
a butterfly-net. If this be not at hand, )\e may pro- 
cure good evidence by wetting the hand, and passing 
it quickly amongst the thickest of the crowd ; when 
several will be caught, and will uniformly exhibit the 
beautifully fringed or plumed antennae, which in the 
female are without the hairs or the plumelets. What 
it may be, besides the same delighted and buoyant 
spirit which causes lambs to group together in their 
frolics, that induces those tiny gnats to sport in this 
manner on the wing, is, perhaps, inexplicable. 

Wordsworth^s opinion, though adopted by Kirby 
and Spence, is, perhaps, as we shall presently endea- 
vour to show, more poetical than correct. His words 
are:— 

** Nor wanting here to entertain the thought, 

Creatures that in communities exist, 

Less, as might seem, for general guardianship, 

Or through dependence upon mutual aid, 

Than by participation of delight, 

And a strict love of fellowship combined. 

What other spirit can it be that prompts 
The gilded summer flies to mix and weave 
Their sports together in the solar beam. 

Or, in the gloom and twilight, hum their joy.” 

T/ie Excursion, 

Tlie evening gamboling of rooks on the wing, 






when they return from their more distant excursions 
during the autumn, may with more certainty be re- 
ferred to this cause. White says, they rendezvous 
by thousands over Selborne Down, wheeling round 
and diving in a playful manner in the air, and when 
this ceremony is over, with the last gleam of light, 
they retire to the deep beech woods of Tisted and 
Kepley. It may not be improper, however, to dis- 
tinguish between this and the restless tossing about 
and flapping of the wings, often exhibited by rooks 
previous to a storm, which more usually occurs in the 
morning, and closely resembles the tossing of sea- 
birds on the billows during a gale*. 

The quickness of the vision of tipulidan gnats, and 
the rapidity as well as the dexterity of their motion, 
may be considered not a little remarkable, from the 
circumstance of their flying unwetted in a heavy 
shower of rain, whose drops — bigger than their own 
bodies — if they fell upon them, must dash them to the 
ground t ; unless it may be that the drops glide off 
their wings as they do off the feathers of a duck, while 
the elasticity of their bodies may save them from 
accidents, even when they chance to be pelted. 

Avery pretty species of these choral flies (CAzro- 
nomvs aterrimm\ Meigen), is exceedingly common 
in the vicinity of London, appearing about the close 
of winter, and readily distinguished by its shining 
snow-white wings, rendered more conspicuous by the 
contrast of its black body, while the male has his 
antenna} adorned with beautiful lead* grey plumelets. 
Though groups of these may be found sporting on 
the borders of woods and near water, even in January, 
proving that, though not half the size of the common 
gnat {Culex pipiens), they can brave the bleak winds 
of winter, — yet they often crowd into our apartments, 
like many others of the family. We have just been 
* J. R. -j- Kirby and Spence, vol.ii. p. 374. 




watching the proceedings of a pair of these elegant 
little creatures by candle-light, when they are more 
lively and alert than in the sunshine. We were 
reading a large quarto book with wide print and very 
broad margins, the white colour of which seemed not 
only to attract but to deceive them in the same way 
as a bird or a blow-fly will mistake a pane of glass 
for the “ viewless air,** and dash recklessly against 
it. Our little snowy-winged flies, apparently from a 
similar mistake, dashed themselves about on the 
pages of the book. We have been accustomed, from 
boyhood, to see gnats and other insects tumbling 
about in a similar manner when we have been read- 
ing at night, a circumstance which few of our readers 
can have failed to observe ; but we always pitied them 
on the supposition that it was in consequence of their 
heedlessly singeing their wings in the candle, and 
thus unfitting themselves to fly. This, no doubt, is a 
frequent cause of their falling on a book ; but it was 
not so with the two flies which we observed, for they 
remained quite perfect and uninjured. The most 
remarkable circumstance was, that they almost uni- 
formly fell on the back, which seems to indicate that 
they fly with the back downwards, a mode of flight 
not a little singular, though it has an analogy to the 
swimming of some aquatic insects {Notojiectidee^ 
Leach). When they felt the paper, they spun round 
in circles and half circles with great rapidity, and 
evidently not so much for the purpose of getting 
upon their feet as of continuing the gyrations they 
had been performing while on the wing. This we in- 
ferred from their being in no hurry to get up, and 
from their continuing, even when they got upon their 
feet, to wheel round and round, as if waltzing with 
the express design of showing that they could dance 
on the “ light fantastic toe,** as well as on the wing. 
Their circular movement is not peculiar to them, 





being observable in several others of the family, par- 
ticularly in a still smaller fly with black pellucid 
wings {Molobrus?)^ and not uncommon in sum- 
mer, whose extremely rapid motion we have often 
admired as it performs its minute gyrations on a 
leaf or the petal of a flower. 

It was no less remarkable, that the two snowy- 
winged gnats just mentioned were male and fe- 
male, as the latter is seldom seen, and when the 
males swarm upon a window, a single female can 
scarcely be found ; but though they were flirting 
about on the same page, they took not the slightest 
notice of one another, and each went through its 
gyrations as if unconscious of the other’s presence. 
The female, besides, contrary to what is usual among 
insects, was by far the most alert and agile of the 
two ; in so much that, though it was early in March, 
we at first mistook her for the minute summer fly 
alluded to in last paragraph *. 

From all we have observed, we think it probable, 
that notwithstanding the apparent sociality of the 
dancing gnats {Tipvlida'^, they do not congregate 
in consequence of any gregarious feelings, or for 
mutual assistance ; but merely because they are pro- 
duced in numbers in the same places, and individually 
prefer similar haunts. The individual sportive move- 
ments of the two snowy-winged flies just described, 
which were performed on the contiguous pages of a 
book, or severally at the top and bottom of the same 
page, prove that they do not consider the presence 
of numbers indispensable. This position is farther 
illustrated by the proceedings of an insect of a very 
different family — the whirlwig beetles {GyrinidcBy 
Leach), which may be seen on the surface of every 
pool weaving their eccentric dances, and twinkling 
their polished corselets in the sun, both in summer 
and, as we have remarked, throughout the winter. 

? J.R. 


 


These are most frequently observed frolicking in 
parties of from two to a dozen or more ; but we 
have very frequently seen an individual performing 
his gyrations with the same alacrity when alone as 
when mingling with his companions. We conclude, 
therefore, that the apparent sociality of these insects 
has no closer bond than that of the vultures which 
crowd to devour the same carcase, or of the unsocial 
sea-birds which congregate near a shoal of fish*. 

Kirby and Spence appear to be of a different 
opinion : — these “ little beetles,” say they, “ which 
may be seen clustering in groups under warm banks 
in every river and every pool, and wheeling round 
and round with great velocity ; at your approach 
dispersing and diving under water, but, as soon as 
you retire, resuming their accustomed movements, — 
seem to be under the influence of the social principle, 
and to form their assemblies for no other purpose 
than to enjoy together in the sun-shine the mazy 
dance t.*’ 

The following account of the manners of this 
beetle, by Mr. Knapp, is well worth extracting; 
though it is much more lively and interesting than 
strictly correct : 

“ Water, quiet, still water, affords a place of action 
to a very amusing little fellow (^Gy rimes natator)^ 
which, about the month of April, if the weather be 
tolerably mild, we see gamboling upon the surface 
of the sheltered pool ; and every schoolboy, who has 
angled for minnows in the brook, is well acquainted 
with this merry swimmer in his shining black 
Jacket. Retiring in the autumn, and reposing all the 
winter in the mud at the bottom of the pond, it 
awakens in the spring, rises to the surface, and com- 
mences its summer sports J. They associate in small 

* .T. R. f Intr. vol. ii. p. 4. 

J We have seen them throughout the severe winter of 1829-30, 
sporting on the unfrozen springs at Lee, in Kent, J. R. 





parties of ten or a dozen, near the bank, where some 
little projection forms a bay, or renders the water 
particularly tranquil ; and here they will circle round 
each other without contention, each in his sphere, 
and with no apparent object, from morning until 
night, with great sprightliness and animation ; and so 
lightly do they move on the fluid, as to form only 
some faint and transient circles on its surface. Very 
fond of society, we seldom see them alone, or, if 
parted by accident, they soon rejoin their busy com- 
panions. One pool commonly affords space for the 
amusement of several parties ; yet they do not unite 
or contend, but perform their cheerful circlings in 
separate family associations. If we interfere with 
their merriment they seem greatly alarmed, disperse, 
or dive to the bottom, where their fears shortly sub- 
side, as we soon again see our little merry friends 
gamboling as before. This plain, tiny, gliding 
water- flea seems a very unlikely creature to arrest 
our young attentions; but the boy with his angle has 
not often much to engage his notice, and the social 
active parties of this nimble swimmer, presenting 
themselves at these periods of vacancy, become in- 
sensibly familiar to his sight, and by many of us are 
not observed in after-life without recalling former 
hours, scenes of, perhaps, less anxious days: for 
trifles like these, by reason of some association, are 
often remembered, when things of greater moment 
pass off* and leave no trace upon the mind^.” 

“ The gyrinus,’’ say Kirby and Spence, “ seems 
the merriest and most agile of all the inhabitants of 
the waves. Wonderful is the velocity with which 
they turn round and round, as it were pursuing each 
other in incessant circles, sometimes moving in 
oblique, and indeed in every other direction. Now 
and then they repose on the surface as if fatigued 
* Journal of a Naturalist, p.307. 





with their dances, and desirous of enjoying the full 
effect of the sunbeam: if you approach, they are 
instantaneously in motion again. Attempt to entrap 
them with your net, and they are under the water and 
dispersed in a moment. When the danger ceases, 
they re-appear and resume their vagaries. Covered 
with lucid armour, when the sun shines they look like 
little dancing masses of silver and brilliant pearl 
The gyrations of the whirlwig are equalled in 
rapidity by its diving, when its sports are intruded 
upon by our approach. Its great quickness of sight, 
indeed, is quite surprising ; and is to be accounted for 
by one of the most striking instances of providential 
contrivance with which we are acquainted. Land 
animals see indifferently under water, and aquatic 
animals imperfectly in air ; and an animal with an 
eye equally fitted for seeing in water and in air, 
can, on account of the great difference of the me- 
diums, possess but imperfect vision in either. The 
little whirlwig, to obviate this difficulty, is furnished 
with two sets of eyes, one pair being placed on the 
upper part of the forehead for seeing in air, and 
another pair on the under part of the forehead, ex- 
actly under the first, and separated from them by a 
thin membrane, for seeing in water. As it swims 
half submerged, the latter pair of eyes must be 
very useful in warning the insect of approaching 
danger, from fishes or rapacious larvae below, while 
the former watch with equal keenness the ap- 
proach of enemies above. The hind feet are no less 
admirably formed for swimming, being broad, thin 
and elastic ; while the fore feet are constructed to 
answer the purpose of hands for the seizing of prey. 
The little animal is, besides all these wonderful 
organs, furnished with a pair of ample wings for 
transporting itself, should the water of its native 
? Intr, voU ii. p, 372, 





pool chance to dry up in summer, and force it to 
emigrate. 

The sporting of butterflies in pairs, trios, or more, 
has been looked upon by some as pugnacious skir- 
mishing. “ A few of our lepidopterous creatures,” 
says Mr. Knapp, “ especially the common white 
butterflies of our gardens, are contentious animals, 
and drive away a rival from their haunts. We see 
them progressively ascending into the air, in ardent 
unheeding contest ; and thus they are observed, cap- 
tured, and consumed in a moment by some watchful 
bird ; but we have few more jealous and pugnacious 
than the little elegant blue argus butterfly {Polyom- 
matus Alexis^ Stephens), noted and admired by all. 
When fully animated it will not sutfer any of its 
tribe to cross its path, or approach the flower on 
which it sits, with impunity ; even the large admirable 
(Vanessa atalania^y at these times, it will assail and 
drive away. There is another small butterfly, the 
copper (Lyccena Phlceas^ Fabr.), however, as hand- 
some and, perhaps, still more quarrelsome, frequent- 
ing too the same station and flowers ; and a constant 
warfare exists between them. We shall see these 
diminutive creatures, whenever they come near each 
other, dart into action, and continue bulFeting one 
another about till one retires from the contest ; when 
the victor returns in triumph to the station he had 
left. Should the enemy again advance, the combat 
is renewed ; but should a cloud obscure the sun, or 
a breeze chill the air, their ardour becomes abated 
and contention ceases. The copper butterfly enjoys 
a combat even with its kindred. Two of them are 
seldom disturbed, when basking on a knot of asters 
in September, without mutual strife ensuing. Being 
less aflected by cold and moisture than the argus, 
they remain with us longer, and these contentions 
are protracted till late in the autumn. The pugna- 
cious disposition of tlie argus butterfly soon deprives 


 


it of much of its beauty ; and, unless captured soon 
after its birth, we find the margins of its wings torn 
and jagged, the elegant blue plumage rubbed from the 
wings, and the creature become dark and shabby*.” 

We are of opinion, on the other hand, that these 
butterfly skirmishings are not prompted by testiness 
nor Jealousy, but by the spirit of gaiety and frolic — 
the buoyant feelings arising from the air expanded 
in their wings and bodies by the warm sunshine, 
causing the living principle to increase even to exu- 
berance. Were these, indeed, actual combats among 
the males, like those which take place among game- 
cocks or ruff’s {Tringa pygnax, Linn.), nature 
would probably have furnished them with weapons 
suited to such warfare. But butterflies have neither 
spurs, claws, nor sharp bills, wherewith to assail an 
enemy ; and though they might flap one another with 
their wings, till their tiny feathers flew about like a 
snow-shower, yet we never have observed them do 
so, as Mr. Knapp’s description seems to imply. On 
the contrary, they appear actually to take care that 
such an accident should not occur while they frisk 
about one another, rising, falling, and performing 
zigzag pirouettes in the air, as we see kittens or 
puppies do on the ground, in their more clumsy but 
no less frolicksome gambols. Did these skirmishes, 
besides, originate in rivalry or jealousy, we should 
always see the butterflies combating in couples, for we 
never see two or three game-cocks set upon an indi- 
vidual ; but it is by no means uncommon to see three 
and we have observed as many as five butterflies, all 
equally engaged in these supposed battles, and each 
bouncing and popping indiscriminately at the others 
without ever coming to blows. It seldom happens 
that they actually touch one another, however long 
they may be at play, — a circumstance which of itself 
is sufficient to prove our position. 

? Journ, of a Naturalist, p. 277. 





A more extraordinary display of insect dancing-, 
and which in some instances seems better entitled to 
the name of a balU than our own dancing parties, 
occurs amongst the day-flies (EphemeridiB), whose 
short-lived existence renders it necessary for them to 
make the most of the few hours at their disposal. 
The narrative of the observations made by Reaumur 
upon this subject is too interesting to admit of much 
abridgment. It is not a little singular, he remarks, 
that moths, which fly only in the night, and shun the 
day, should be precisely those that come to seek the 
light in our apartments ; but it is still more wonderful 
that the ephemerie — which, appearing after sun-set 
and dying before sun-rise, are destined never to 
behold the dawn of day, — should have so strong an 
inclination for any luminous object. 

It is usually about the middle of August that 
the ephemerae of the Seine and Marne are ex- 
pected by the fishermen, and when their season is 
come they talk of the manna beginning to appear, 
calling the insects by this term on account of the 
quantity of food for the fish, which falls as the manna 
is recorded to have done in the desert. On the 
19th of August, ReJaumur, having received notice 
that the flies had begun to appear, and that millions 
of them were coming out of the water, got into his 
boat about three hours before sunset ; but after stay- 
ing in the boat till eight o’clock without seeing any, 
he resolved, as a storm was foreboded, to return. 
He had previously detached from the banks of the 
river several masses of earth filled with pupa?, which 
he put into a large tub full of water. His servants, 
who were carrying the tub home, had scarcely set it 
upon one of the steps of the stairs leading from his 
garden to the Marne, when he heard them exclaim, 

“ What a prodigious number of ephemerae are here!” 
He immediately seized one of the torches and ran to 

 


the tub, where he found every piece of earth above 
the surface of the water swarming with the flies, 
some just beginning to quit their old skin, others 
preparing to fly, and others already on the wing, 
while every where under water they were seen in a 
greater or less degree of forwardness. The threatened 
storm of rain and lightning at length coming on, he 
was compelled to leave the interesting scene ; but, to 
prevent the escape of the insects, he had the tub 
covered with a cloth. The violence of the rain ceased 
in about half an hour, when he returned to the garden, 
and as soon as the cloth was removed from the tub 
he perceived that the number of the flies was pro- 
digiously augmented, and continued to increase for 
some time as he stood watching them. Many flew 
away, and many more were drowned, but the number 
which had already undergone their transformation 
from the earth in the tub w^ould have been sufiicient 
to fill it, exclusively of crowds of others which the 
light had attracted from a distance. He again spread 
the cloth over the tub, and the light was held above 
it: immediately the cloth was almost concealed by 
the vast multitudes which alighted upon it, and they 
might have been taken by handfulls ifom the candle- 
stick. What he had observed, however, at the tub, 
was nothing to the scene now exhibited on the banks 
of the river, to which he was again attracted by the 
exclamations of his gardener. 

“ The countless numbers,’' he says, “ of ephe- 
merae which swarmed over the water can neither be 
conceived nor expressed. Wlien snow falls thickest 
and in the largest flakes, the air is never so com- 
pletely full of them as that which we witnessed filled 
with ephemersB. 1 had scarcely remained a few 
minutes in one place, when the step on which I stood 
was covered in every part with their bodies, from two 
to four inches in depth. Near the lowest step, a 





surface of water, of five or six feet dimensions every 
way, was entirely covered with a thick layer of them, 
and those which the stream swept away were more 
than replaced by the multitudes that were continually 
falling, I was repeatedly compelled to abandon my 
station, from not being able to bear the shower of 
insects, which, not falling perpendicularly like rain, 
struck me incessantly and in a manner extremely 
uncomfortable, pelting against every part of my face, 
and filling iny eyes, nose, and mouth almost to suffo- 
cation. On this occasion it was no pleasant post to 
hold the light, for our torch-bearer had his clothes 
covered with the insects in a few moments, which 
rushed in from all quarters to overwhelm him. 

“ The light of the torch gave origin to a spectacle 
which enchanted every one who beheld it, and alto- 
gether different from a meteorological shower; even the 
most stupid and iinobserving of my domestics were 
never satisfied with gazing at it. No armillary sphere 
was ever formed of so many circular zones in every 
possible direction, having the light for their common 
centre. Their number seemed to be infinite, crossing 
each other in all directions, and in every imaginable 
degree and inclination — all of which were more or less 
oblique. Each of these zones was composed of an 
unbroken string of ephemera?, which followed each 
other close in the same line as if they had been tied 
together head and tail, resembling a piece of silver 
ribbon deeply indented on its edges, and consisting 
of equal triangles placed end to end — so that the 
angles of those that followed were supported by the 
base of those which preceded, the whole moving 
round with incredible velocity. This spectacle was 
caused by the wings of the insects, which alone could 
be distinguished. Each of these flies, after having 
described one or two orbits, fell to the. earth, or into 


 


the water, though not in consequence of having been 
burned*.” 

It is conjectured by Kirby and Spence, that 
Reaumur, though he was unquestionably a most 
accurate observer, may have mistaken the rapid 
movements of single flies, and the deception of 
vision thence arising, for a numerous troop, following 
one another in zoned circular lines, — a mistake which 
they were once upon the point of committing when 
observing the dances of certain small flies which 
moved in spirals ; closer observation, however, proved 
that what appeared to be a continuous line of flies, 
was produced by the rapid motion of an individual. 
Be this as it may, it will not alter the singularity of 
the spectacle. Some of our British ephemerae begin 
their dances with the dawn, instead of waiting till 
sun-set, — rising and falling continually over the 
meaidows in May, sometimes beating the air rapidly 
with their wings, and sometimes skimming about like 
hawks t. Those again which we observed in August, 
rising from the Rhine, did not dance at all, but flew 
in a heavy, unsteady, and lumbering manner above 
the current of the river 

In speaking of what appear to be the sports of 
insects, we cannot omit taking notice of the very 
singular proceedings of some species of ants, which, 
at the intervals of busy industry, amuse themselves 
with something apparently analogous to our wrest- 
ling and racing matches. Bonnet says, he observed 
a small species of ants, which employed themselves 
in carrying each other on their backs, the rider hold- 
ing with his mandibles the neck of his bearer, and 
embracing it closely with his legs§, the position 

? Reaumur, Mem. vol. vi. p. 485. 

f Kirby and Spence, vol. ii. p. 373. J J. R. 

§ Bonnet, CEuvres, vol.ii. p. 407. 




which the renowned John Gilpin may have some- 
times been disposed to assume in his famous race 
throui^h Edmonton. But thou<^h the very palpable 
mistakes committed by Bonnet respecting^ these very 
ants* may, perhaps, tend to invalidate his authority 
with respect to their riding*, we have the undoubted 
testimony of both Gould and Huber for their wrest- 
lings. “ Yon may frequently,** says Gould, “ per- 
ceive one of these ants (Formica ntfa, Latr,) run 
to and fro with a fellow-labourer in his Ibrceps of 
the same species and colony.** Mr. Gould observed, 
that, after being carried for some time, it was let go 
in a friendly manner and received no personal injury. 
This amusement is often repeated, particularly among 
the hill ants, who are very fond of this sportive 
exercise t- 

It was amongst the same species, that Huber ob- 
served similar proceedings,which he has describedwith 
his usual minuteness and accuracy. “ I approached,** 
he says, “ one day to the formicary of wood ants, 
exposed to the sun and sheltered from the north. 
The ants were heaped upon one another in great 
numbers, and appeared to enjoy the temperature on 
the surface of the nest. None of them were at work, 
and the immense multitude of insects ])resented the 
appearance of a liquid iii the state of ebullition, upon 
which the eye could scarcely be fixed without diffi- 
culty; but when I examined the conduct of each 
ant, 1 saw them approach one another, moving their 
antenna? with astonishing rapidity, while they patted 
with a slight movement the cheeks of other ants. 
After these preliniinary gestures which resembled 
caressing, they were observed to raise themselves 
upright oil their hind legs by pairs, struggle together, 
seize each other by a mandible, foot, or antenna, and 

? Huber on Ants, pref, and pp. 21 1 and 233. 
f Gould on Ants, p. 102, &c. 

 


then immediately relax their hold to recommence the 
attack. They fastened upon each other’s shoulders, 
or bellies, embraced and overthrew each other, then 
raised themselves by turns, taking their revenge 
without producing any serious mischief. They did not 
spurt out their venom as in their combats, nor retain 
their opponents with that obstinacy which we observe 
in their real quarrels. They presently abandoned 
those which they had first seized, and endeavoured to 
catch others. I have seen some who were so eager 
in these exercises, that they pursued several workers 
in succession, and struggled with them a few 
moments, the skirmish only terminating when the least 
animated, having overthrown his antagonist, succeeded 
in escaping and hiding in one of the galleries. In 
one place, two ants appeared to be gamboling 
about a stalk of grass,— turning alternately to avoid 
or seize each other, which brought to my recollection 
the sport and pastime of young dogs when they rise 
on their hind-legs, attempting to bite, overthrow, and 
seize each other, without once closing their teeth. 
To witness these facts, it is necessary to approach the 
ant-hills with much caution, that the ants should 
have no idea of our presence; if they had, they 
would cease at the moment their plays or their occu- 
pations, would put themselves in a posture of defence, 
curve up their tails, and ejaculate their venom*.” 

? M. P. Huber on Ants, p. 203. 





Peculiar Looomotioni. 

Those who have attended to the paces of the larger 
animals, are well aware of their almost infinite 
variety ; but the differences between the heavy tread of 
the elephant or the waddling roll of an overgrown 
pig, the elegant pace of a blood-horse or the 
sprightly trip of an antelope, will bear no comparison 
with the infinite diversities observable among the 
movements of insects. We look upon the long legs 
of the giraffe and the crane as inelegant and dispro- 
portionate, how well suited soever they may be to 
their mode of life : but what should we think of a 
species of giraffe, with legs long enough to enable it 
to overtop the tallest trees, so as to browse on their 
tops as oxen do on the grass of a meadow, while it 
walked at ease through woods and forests ; or of a 
wren or sparrow with legs as long as the hop-poles 
among which it prowled to prey upon aphides and 
lady-birds. But animals of such descriptions, wildly 
imaginary as they must be confessed to be, may be 
readily matched in the insect world. The pendulum 
crane fly (Tipula motitatrix), formerly mentioned, 
as well as the shepherd spider fPhalavgivm 
opilioj, described in the same place, are remarkable 
examples of this; and we have still more striking 
instances in the large clouded-winged crane fly 
(Tipula gigantea, Meigen), popularly termed father 
longlegs, or jenny-spinner, their stilted legs enabling 
these insects to overtop the grass as they walk in the 
meadows, in the same way as our imaginary giraffe 



 


would overtop the trees in a forest. We have been 
more struck with instances of this in some of the 
bug tribe, because here it was least to have been 
expected. In our earlier entomological researches, 
we frequently noticed, upon a white-washed wall, a 
very strange looking insect, if insect it might be 
called, moving about in the most awkward manner 
imaginable. It looked, however, more like a slip of 
gray tree bark, not half the breadth of a wheat-straw, 
that had been accidentally caught on some straggling 
films of spiders’ web, which allowed it to oscillate 
irregularly in the air, than a real living creature, — for 
the long gossamer legs did not, to the unassisted eye, 
appear to move at all, and the slender awkward 
body progressed by interrupted jerks (if such 
slow motions may be so termed), resembling the 
movement of the minute-hand of a clock. The 
glass, however, showed that the body was covered by 
the folds of four membranous wings, prettily mottled, 
which lay in a hollow groove on the back, while the 
long slender legs were elegantly ringed with white. 
It was, in short, one of the numerous family of plant- 
bugs (Neides elegans? Curtis) which had strayed 
from the adjacent garden to the wall. Another 
occurred in the same place somewhat similar, but 
considerably smaller, and stalked along with equally 
awkward jerks, upon only its four hind-legs, while it 
kept its two fore-legs, which were greatly shorter, 
folded up under its belly, in readiness, probably, to 
seize on the first luckless mite or aphis that came in 
its way*. The latter appears to be the wandering 
plant-bug (Ploiaria vagabunday Scopoli). 

Many insects are capable of performing a feat 
which no other animal could accomplish without the 
aid of the water-shoes lately invented — we allude to 
walking on the water, as distinct from swimming, 
* J. R. 



a h 


a, Ploiaria vagabunda^ magnified, b, Ncides elegans^ magnified. 

which most, if not all animals, save man, can do 
without instruction. The whirl wig beetle (fiyrinus 
natator) can scarcely be said either to walk, run, or 
swim, — for, as we have taken some pains to ascertain, 
it appears not to keep its “ oary feet^' plunged in 
the water as it flits about, but strikes smartly out, 
and suddenly folds them flat under its belly ; on the 
same principle as a waterman on the Thames may 
be seen to give two or three quick pulls with his oars, 
to put way, as he calls it, upon his wherry, and then 
perking them up out of the water, lets it skim along 
while he rests motionless. Thus does the little 
whirlwig glide along the water as if by magic, for 
we cannot see its I’eet moving on account of the 
border of the wing cases {elytra) which overlap 
them ; no more than we can discern the feet of a swan, 
from their dark colour, resembling that of the water, 
even when she skims about at a small distance from 
the shore*. 

Most people must have been amused by observing 
the groups of water insects which seem to delight in 

* J.R. 







swimminir against small streams, and apparently 
more for the purpose of maintaining their place than 
of making farther progress upwards. The most 
common of these are two aquatic bugs of different 
genera — the one {Gerris locustris, La.tr.) with a 
long blackish body and legs, and white belly, though 
more clumsy in form than the water measurer (Hy- 
drometra stagnorum) formerly mentioned ; and the 
other (Velia currens^ Latr.), with short body 
and feet, black, with a red line running along each 
side. We have been still more amused with a 
dark greenish grey spider {Lycosa Saccata, Latr.), 
which, when we approach near its haunts on the 
margin of a stream, does not take shelter in the grass, 
nor in the holes of the bank, as most of its kindred 
would do, but trips away over the water, where it 
appears to know instinctively that we cannot so easily 
pursue it. This is not, however, the diving water 
spider (Argyroneta aqnaiica)^ for though it can 
dive and remain under water, it does not seem to 
relish this, except when driven to the measure 



A Hydrmctra stagnorum. c rf, Hydrachnn Geographicay Lath., 
front and back Tio)v, both magnibeo. 0, Vclia rivuhrum^ Lata. 

* J. R. 





Some of these water insects have such slender feet, 
that we can only explain their not sinking in the water 
on the same principle as that of a small needle float- 
ing when very dry and laid exactly level. Others 
again have their feet fringed with fine hairs which 
buoy them up; while the tipiilidan gnats {Chironomi) 
and other flies, are, perhaps, aided by their wings in 
keeping them afloat; for we have observed several 
aquatic flies skimming on the surface of the water, 
apparently half running, half flying. Linnaeus saw 
one of these little tipula% of a black colour, per- 
forming gyrations on the water similar to those of 
the whirlwig {Gyrinvs): others use their wings as 
the swan does, by way of a sail. 

Other insects walk both through the water, and at 
its bottom, in a similar manner to walking on land, 
and not by striking with their feet, as is done in 
swimming. It is in this manner that the minute 
pretty water-mite {Hydrachna geographical Mul- 
ler), may be seen in every ditch and pond around 
London, pacing along, often in company with a still 
more showy one {Limvochares holoacricca, Latr.), 
whose bright scarlet colour renders it very easily re- 
cognised, and may readily lead a young naturalist to 
suppose that the scarlet satin mite {Trombidium 
holosericeiim^ Latr.), so frequent on dry banks in the 
spring, has abandoned the laud for the water. The 
latter, however, is much larger. 

The amphibious nature ol' those winged beetles 
which can walk at the bottom of water, is matched, 
if not out-rivalled, by the water-ouzel {Cinclus 
aquations, Bechstein), which we have repeatedly seen 
walk deliberately under water, and continue its pace 
for many yards, as if it had been on land*. As this 


* J.R. 



 


little bird lives on water insects and the fry of fish, 
its amphibious powers are indispensable. 

Some of these aquatic insects, such as the whirl wig, 
are so highly polished, that the water will not adhere 
to their bodies ; while others (Hydrophilic &c.) are 
covered below with a thick coating of silky hair, which 
repels the water and usually surrounds them with a 
globule of air that shines under v\ ater like quicksilver. 
The spider mentioned above is similarly furnished 
with downy hair for the same purpose. 

In walking, insects exhibit endless peculiarities. 
The hunting spiders, and many of the midges (Psy- 
chod(By Latr.), instead of walking straightforwards, 
most usually walk obliquely, and often at right-angles 
to the line of their own bodies ; while most insects 
can, when it is necessary, walk directly backwards 
with almost as much facility as forwards. Wlien 
the centipedes (Scolopeiidridce, Leach) walk back- 
wards, they only use their four hind-legs, and these, 
when they walk in the usual way, are not employed, 
but dragged after them like the locked wheel of a mail- 
coach in driving down a steep hill. It was first 
observed, we believe, by Kirby, that a millepede 
common under stones, the bark of trees, and the 
hollow stems of decaying plants, and provincially 
called maggy-manyfeet (Julus terrestris)^ performs 
its serpent-like motion by extending alternate por- 
tions of its numerous legs beyond the line of the 
body, while those in the intervals preserve a vertical 
direction. So long, then, as it keeps moving, little 
bunches of the legs are alternately in and out from 
one end to the other of its long body, the undulating 
line pf motion successively beginning at the head and 
passing off at the tail*. We may ^d, that the form 
and structure of this insect are admirably adapted 
* Intr, vol, ii. p. 309. 





to its mode of life, it being long and of small dia- 
meter, to enable it to thread its way through narrow 
holes ; while its covering is highly polished to facili- 
tate its passage, and so hard as to prevent it being 
lacerated by any splinter of wood which it might 
chance to encounter, while it is at the same time so 
flexible, that it can coil itself up into a circle of very 
small diameter. The hardness and the flexibility, 
though apparently incompatible, are produced by a 
similar contrivance to that of the spine in man — the 
whole body of the julus being composed of small 
hard rings united by flexible joints*. 

Instances have occurred in which a sheep or a 
cow has come into the world with legs upon its back: 
this, of course, is a monstrosity out of the usual course 
of nature; but in a very singular insect, the bat- 
louse (JSfycteribia Hermanniy Leach), the legs 
appear to have their usual place on the back. “It 
transports itself,” says Colonel Montagu, “ with 
such celerity, from one part of the animal it inhabits 
to the opposite and most distant, although obstructed 
by the extreme thickness of the fur, that it is not 
readily taken.” — “ When two or three were put into 
a small phial, their agility appeared inconceivably 
great ; for, as their feet are incapable of fixing upon 
so smooth a body, their whole exertion was employed 
in laying hold of each other ; and in this most curious 
struggle, they appeared actually flying in circles: 
and when the bottle was reclined, they would fre- 
quently pass from one end to the other with astonish- 
ing velocity, accompanied by the same gyrations : if 
by accident they escaped each other, they very soon 
became motionless ; and as quickly were the whole 
put in motion again by the least touch of the bottle 
or the movement of an individual t.” 

Many of the beetles run with great velocity, and 
I*R. f Linn, Trans, vol, xi. p. 13. 

2 I 






dart off into holes and comers so suddenly, as often 
to escape the quickest movements of an insect 
hunter. It is remarkable, however, that those swift- 
footed insects seldom run far without making a full 
pause to reconnoitre their position, as a deer may be 
seen to arch his neck from behind a tree to examine 
a stranger, and, after tripping off to some distance, 
turn round again to take another peep at the intruder. 
The same habit is observable among spiders, parti- 
cularly the hunters, and those which run about 
meadows and the margins of water (Lycosa saccaia, 
&c.) Some of the mites are still more rapid in their 
movements, and we have often admired a very com- 
mon one {Gamniasus Baccanim^ Fabr.) which fre- 
quents strawberry-beds in gardens, and, as Kirby 
and Spence justly say, appears rather to glide or fly 
than to use its legs^. Its minuteness adds to the 






0, terrettris. h. tlie tame roiled np. c, oil beetle 
ioatxibaui vulgariM). d, Ngcttrihia H$rmanHi. 

* Intr. vol.ii. p.311. 





surprise produced by its movements, for it is litUe 
larger than a grain of sand, of a pale reddish colour, 
with two black dots on the back ; — and though the 
clods of garden-mould are mountains in comparison 
to its size, it gallops over them at a thousand times 
greater proportional speed than the swiftest race- 
horse*. 

As a contrast to the quick moving insects just 
mentioned, we may turn for a moment to those which 
move very slowly. The hunting spiders, though they 
can dart with the rapidity of lightning upon their 
prey, yet take care to approach a victim with such 
extraordinary caution, that the shadow upon a sun-dial 
advances not more imperceptibly t. Some of the 
beetles again move very slowly, particularly the one 
popularly called the oil-beetle (Proscarab (BU s vul~ 
Stephens), on account of the oily-looking 
fluid which oozes out from it when seized or alarmed. 
The unwieldy bulk of this animal makes it almost 
painful to look at the efforts it apparently has to 
make as it lumbers along. It always reminds us 
of those bees which, during autumn, may often be 
seen crawling lifelessly upon flowers, as if so over- 
gorged with the honey which they had extracted, that 
they are unfit to fly. How the oil-beetle becomes 
so fat, it is not easy to say, when we consider that it 
feeds upon plants, and is seen very early in spring. 
After the severe winter of 18:29-30, we found several, 
in the beginning of March, feeding on the bulbous- 
rooted buttercup (Ranunculus biilbosus), at Charl- 
ton, in Kent, and as plump as if there had not been 
a day’s frost during the winter. 

Another very common insect, popularly called the 
bloody-nosed beetle (Timarcha ienebricosa, Me- 
gerle), from its ejecting a red fluid from its mouth 
when caught, is one of the very slow walkers ; but 
? J.E. j- Insect Architecture, p. 355, 

2 r 2 






it is furnished with feet most admirably contrived for 
taking hold of the catchweed {Galium Apariue)^ 
and other trailing plants, on which it feeds. This 
contrivance consists of cushions, formed of a slightly 
concave mass of thick soft hair, which both adheres 
by its points, and also produces somewhat of a va- 
cuum, which enables it to walk as easily with its head 
perpendicularly downwards as upwards. 

The most perfect contrivance of this kind, however, 
occurs in the domestic fly {Musca domestica), and 
its congeners, as well as in several other insects. 
Few can have failed to remark, that flies walk with 
the utmost ease along the ceiling of a room, and no less 
so upon a perpendicular looking-glass ; and though 
this were turned downwards, the flies would not fall 
off, but could maintain their position undisturbed 
with their backs hanging downwards. The conjectures 
devised by naturalists, to account for this singular 
circumstance, previous to the ascertaining of the 
actual facts, are not a little amusing. “ Some sup- 
pose,’^ says the Abbe de la Pluche, “ that when the 
fly marches over any polished body, on which neither 
her claws nor her points can fasten, she sometimes 
compresses her sponge and causes it to evacuate a 
fluid, which fixes her in such a manner as prevents 
her falling without diminishing the facility of her 
progress; but it is much more probable, that the 
sponges correspond with the fleshy balls which ac- 
company the claws of dogs and cats and that they 
enable the fly to proceed with a softer pace, and con- 
tribute to the preservation of its claws, whose pointed 
extremities would soon be impaired without this 
prevention t.*’ — “ Its ability to walk on glass, says 
S. Shaw, “ proceeds partly from some little rugged- 
ness thereon, but chiefly from a tarnish, or dirty 

* See Menageries, Lib. of Entertain. Knowl. vol, i. p. 173. 
f Spect. cle la Nat. vol. i. p. 116. 






smoky substance, adhering to the surface; so that, 
though the sharp points on the sponges cannot pene- 
trate the surface of the glass, it may easily catch hold 
of the tarnish*.** This is evidently borrowed from 
Hookf. But it is singular that none of these fanciers 
ever took the trouble to ascertain the existence of 
either a gluten squeezed out by the fly, or of the 
smoky tarnish on glass. Even the shrewd Reaumur 
could not give a satisfactory explanation of the 
circumstance. 

The earliest correct notion on this curious subject 
was entertained by Derham, who, upon mentioning 
the provision made for insects that hang on smooth 
surfaces, says, “ I might here name divers flies and 
other insects, who, besides their sharp-hooked nails, 
have also skinny palms to their feet to enable them 
to stick to glass and other smooth bodies, by means 
of the pressure of the atmosphere — after the manner 
as I have seen boys carry heavy stones with only a 
wet piece of leather clapped on the top of the stonej.” 
The justly celebrated Mr. White, of Selborne, ap- 
parently without the aid of microscopical investiga- 
tion, adopted Derham’s opinion, adding the interest- 
ing illustration, that in the decline of the year, when 
the flies crowd to Avindows and become sluggish and 
torpid, they are scarcely able to lift their legs, which 
seem glued to the glass, where many actually stick 
till they die; whereas they are, during warm weather, 
so brisk and alert that they easily overcome the 
pressure of the atmosphere §. 

This singular mechanism, however, is not peculiar 
to flies, for some animals, a hundred times as large, 
can walk upon glass by the same means. St. Pierre 

? Nature Displ. vol. iii. p. 98. Lond. 1823. 
j- Micrographia, p. 170. 

J Physico-Theology, vol.ii. p. 194, note (6), 11th ed. 

§ Nat. Hist, of Selborne, vol. ii. p. 274. 

2 l3 






mentions a very small handsome lizard, about a 
finger’s length, which climbs along the walls, and 
even along glass, in pursuit of hies and other in- 
sects*;” and Sir Joseph Banks noticed another 
lizard, named the gecko (Lacerta Gecko^ Linn.) which 
could walk against gravity, and which made him 
desirous of having the subject thoroughly investigated. 
On mentioning it to Sir Everard Home, he and Mr. 
Bauer commenced a series of researches, by which 
they proved incontrovertibly, that in climbing upon 
glass, and walking along the ceilings with the back 
downwards, a vacuum is produced by a particular 
apparatus in the feet, sufficient to cause atmospheric 
pressure upon their exterior surface. 

The apparatus in the feet of the fly consists of two 
or three membranous suckers connected with the last 
joint of the foot by a narrow neck, of a funnel shape, 
immediately under the base of each claw, and move- 
able in all directions. These suckers are convex 
above and hollow below the edges, being margined 
with minute serratures, and the hollow portion 
covered with down. In order to produce the vacuum 
and the pressure, these membranes are separated and 
expanded, and when the fly is about to lift its foot, 
it brings them together, and folds them up as it were 
between the two claws. By means of a common 
microscope, these interesting movements may be 
observed when a fly is confined in a wine-glass f. 

It is a very remarkable analogy, that many flying 
insects, as well as many birds, instead of walking, 
leap or hop along somewhat in the manner of a 
kangaroo or a jerboa. But the most common and 
best known instance of a leaping insect, is the flea 
(Pulex irritans)^ whose wings are, according to 
Kirby, obsolescent. The structure of this annoying 

* Voyage to the Tsie of France, p. 73. 

f Philosoph, Trans, for 1816, p. 325. 






Feet of the blue-bottle fly, 6400 times. A, a view of the under 

side of the last joint of the toe, with the two suckers expanded, as seen 
when the fly is walking against gravity. B, side of ditto. 



^ Feet of the hihio febrilts^ C^ATR.Omagnified 6400 times. A, the under 
side of the last joint of the toe, with the three suckers expanded. B, 
side view of ditto. 



 


creature is well fitted for its mode of life — it being 
furnished with so tough a skin that it is no easy 
matter to crush it, while it is so smooth that it would 
almost glide through a pin-hole. The extraordinary 
muscular power of the thighs, again, combined with 
their elasticity, enable it to perform most astonishing 
leaps, as we have remarked in a preceding page ; 
while its comparative lightness and the toughness of 
its skin prevent it from receiving any injury, from 
whatever height it may fall. It is very doubtful, 
indeed, as it appears to us, whether it observes the 
good old proverb of looking before it leaps, for we 
have seen fleas leap from the bottom of a deep pill- 
box, where they could not possibly perceive whither 
they were leaping It may not be out of place here to 
mention, that fleas (Piilicidip?) undergo similar trans- 
formations to other insects, laying their eggs at the 
roots of the hair of animals, the feathers of birds, or 
in woollen stuffs. These, in a few days, produce a 
minute whitish grub, which, in warm weather 
changes to a perfect flea in about six weeks : as may 
be verified by whoever will take the trouble of en- 
closing some female fleas, which are always the 
largest, in glass tubes, and feeding them with flies or 
raw beef, as was done by ROsel, De Geer, and many 



Flea magnified, to allow the moseular atructoie of the leai* 
• J.B. 






others. Mr. Stephens enumerates no less than twelve 
species, from which it appears that those found on 
the dog, the pigeon, and other animals, are quite 
ditferent from the common flea, and it is probable 
these will not readily pass from their natural habit to 
infest us, as is commonly believed. 

The extraordinary power of leaping in grasshoppers 
and their congeners is matter of common observa- 
tion. The motion is ettected by means of very 
strong muscles with which the hind thighs are fur- 
nished ; and it is a similar structure which enables the 
frog-hoppers {CercojyidcB, Leach), so common on 
plants during summer, to perform leaps of extraor- 
dinary extent, in which, however, they have likewise 
the assistance of their wings. Some species make 
use of their faculty of leaping to escape from their 
enemies, as well as for the purpose of changing 
place, while others use it to spring upon their prey. 
Among the former we may mention a family 
of small insects (Poduridm, Leach), some of them 
inhabiting water or damp places, though most of the 
species are found under decaying bark or vegetable re- 
fuse. The one that is most likely to attract attention 
is a very small gregarious one, the water spring-tail 
(Podura aquatica)^ which may often be seen, during 
the summer, crowded upon the rain-water collected 
in the footsteps of cattle, the ruts of cart-wheels, or 
by the edges of small ponds, and looking precisely 
as if one had strewed about a handful of coal-ashes 
or gunpowder ; but, though at first glance they seem 
inanimated, closer inspection will show that they are 
in active motion, and particularly if they be alarmed 
— leaping about and upon one another, and on the 
water, like so many minute fire-works. Those which 
are solitary are much larger, among which we may 
mention the velvet spring-tail {Podura holosericea)^ 
of which we here give a magnified figure, to shew 





the spring in the tail, by means of which it leaps* 
jerking it downwards and outwards from its body as 
the flea does its legs. 



Leaping position of the velvet spring-tail, magnified. 

Amongst the insects which spring upon their prey 
like the cat and the lion, the most commonly observed 
is the little hunting spider {Salticusi scenicus) , whose 
zebra stripes of white and brown render it easily 
discovered on our window-frames and palings*. 
But all the spiders — even those which form webs — 
are accustomed to spring in a similar way upon what 
they have caught ; and when we are told of the 
gigantic American one {My gale avicularia), which 
even makes prey of small birds {Trochilidee), the 
necessity of extraordinary agility must be obvious; 
for these tiny birds are described to move with 
almost the velocity of light, — the eye, notwithstand- 
ing the brilliancy of their metallic colours, being 
frequently baffled in tracking their flight. The 
spider itself, however, being three inches in length, 
one and a half in breadth, and eleven inches in the 
expansion of its legs, is little less than the bird upon 
which it pounces, as may be seen from the following 
figure, taken from the splendid work of Madame 
Merian upon the insects of Surinam. 

All animals which fly are furnished with powerful 
muscles for moving their wings, in the same way as 
the limbs of those which leap are similarly provided ; 

?^See Insect Architecture, p. 355. 






My gale avicularia, rom Madame Merian. 


and we may, therefore, remark, in passing, that any 
invention for enabling men to fly must take the 
comparative weakness of our muscles into primary 
consideration. Let any one try merely to stretch out 
his arm as a hawk, or a swift fly {Fotucplla), does its 
wings, when hovering apparently motionless in the 
air, — and the quick recurrence of weariness, speedily 
increasing to pain, will atford unequivocal jjroof ot 
the apparently exhaustless vigour of their volitant 
muscles, compared with ours. It would be no very 
difficult matter to give voluminous illustrations on 
this curious subject. A French naturalist, M. C ha- 
brier, has actually written an elaborate quarto vo- 
lume, on the flight of insects*. Though Chabrier 
has unquestionable talents of the first order for re- 
search, it is unfortunate that he permits his fancy to 
travel somewhat beyond the boundaries of fact ; and 
to this, no doubt, we are to ascribe his retracting his 
* Essai 8ur le Vol d«5 Insectes, 4lo. Paris, 1801. 


 


former opinions on the fligfht of insects ; yet it might 
have been supposed, that in writing so voluminously 
on the subject, he had left no point uninvestigated. 
Nothing, however, can be more praiseworthy than 
the candour (not very common in such cases) with 
which Chabrier corrects his own mistake. 

In the two-winged flies {Dipterd) Chabrier de- 
scribes two sets of Ihuscular ribbons for putting the 
wings in play — the dorsal^ placed lengthwise, and 
used to lower the wings, and the stcrno-dorsal^ placed 
obliquely across these for raising the wings. In the 
dragon-flies {Libcllulina) , again, the disposition is 
somewhat different, the sterno-dorsal muscles being 
placed intermediate, while another set of powerful 
muscles, called pectoral^ are placed lengthwise, and 
are inserted immediately into the wings. In his first 
work, our autlior thought these muscles acted sepa- 
rately, but he now says they act in concert; and he 
is not now inclined to ascribe, as he at first did, 
so much influence to the air in the interior of the 
body, nor to the spring of the harder parts of the 
back and breast. “ Certainly,” he adds, “ the elas- 
ticity of these parts, and the re-action of the interior 
air have their use : the fluid, particularly, contained 
in their numerous vesicles, is, perhaps, very light, and 
contributes to reduce the specific gravity of the 
insect. Besides, by enveloping the interior organs, 
it appears to me intended to protect these against 
the violent motions of flight, and to contribute to 
the expansion of the chest, dilating immediately 
after being compressed by the contraction of the 
muscles in the act of raising the wings*.” 

It will appear, from this brief abstract, that the 
subject is not a little interesting ; yet it is not so easy 
to throw it into a form likely to be understood by a 
general reader. Flying with wings, however, is a 

* M. Chabrier in Ann, des Soc. Nat., Avril 1829, p. 505. 








Majfnified views of the muscular ribbons for moving the wings 
in Sj/iphus inanit. a, part of the belly. 6, the costo dorsal mus- 
cles.* V, df the isternu dorsal, e, part of the head. 

less difficult subject of investigation than flying with- 
out wings, as is practised by the gossamer spider 
(Aranea obtextrix, Bechstein), and its congeners. 
We do not allude merely to the threads carried out 
from a spider by a current of air, till it is fixed and 
forms a bridge, along which the creature can pass, 
nor to the similar lines which are lell to float freely, 
in the case of the gossamer, without attachment*. 
We refer to the power which the spider apparently 
possesses of directing its flight. Let any one endea- 
vour to catch one of the spiders which may frequently 
be seen dropping from the ceiling of a room, the 
branch of a tree, or other elevated object, and he will 
find it no easy task to lay hold of the little web spin- 
? See Ingect Architecture, pp, 339-54, 





ner, for it will not only drop perpendicularly by 
spinning a longer thread (it seldom tries to escape 
by remounting)* but it will swing itself away from the 
approaching hand, in a manner which it seems not a 
little difficult to comprehend, for it does not move a 
limb to produce an impulse in the air, as the diving 
spider {Argyroneta aquatica) does when it moves 
through the water. In instances when no escape is 
intended, when spiders, even of considerable size, 
drop from a height, we have often seen them swing 
out of the perpendicular without any apparent aid 
from the wind. It is highly ptolmble that this 
movement is effected by some internal apparatus 
analogous to the swim-bladder of fishes; but at 
present we are not aware that anything beyond con- 
jecture has been published upon the subject. We 
may state, however, that they cannot in this manner 
move far. 





Rest of Insects. 

Mr. Bright well is reported to have once observed 
an individual living specimen of Haltica concinna, 
which appeared to remain motionless on the same 
spot of a wall for three successive days * ; but though 
this is given as something unusual, we liave made 
similar observations in the case of numerous insects 
of all orders and families. The continual stationary 
appearance, however, is, in most of such cases, quite 
fallacious. To use a familiar illustration, we might 
as well think the snail stationary which we see 
every day, perhaps for weeks together, coiled up in 
the same niche of the garden-wall, as if it were glued 
to the spot, and had never moved from it a hair’s- 
breadth, — were it not that the depredations committed 
upon a contiguous lettuce, prove that it does not 
always sleep, though its excursions from its chosen 
niche, as they take place only at night, are seldom, if 
ever, observed. Like a very large portion of the 
whole insect world, snails always sleep throughout the 
day, unless roused by an accidental shower of rain, 
which tempts them to banquet on the refreshed 
herbage. Upon butterflies, and some other day insects, 
again, the occurrence of rain or cloudy weather 
usually operates like a continuance or a renewal of 
night ; and this seems to happen even in-doors, where 
the air is warm and comparatively dry. We had a 
female of the brimstone butterfly {Gonepteryx 
Rhamni) in our study, which we were desirous of 
? Kirby and Spence, Intr, vol. iv. p. 193. 




having deposit her eggs on a plant of the buckthorn 
{Rhamnus franguld)^ which we had placed in a 
garden-pot for this purpose ; and we remarked that 
she manifested no inclination to move from the same 
leaf, except for an hour or two in the forenoon, and 
when it was damp or cloudy, not even then. If 
disturbed in her repose, she would fall down as if life- 
less, and continue her sleep — (if sleep it was), without 
being awakened by the fall, till her regular period of 
animation returned. 

We have used the qualifying phrase — “ if sleep it 
was;” because the rest of insects, though correspond- 
ing, in the circumstance of remaining without motion, 
with the sleep of the larger animals, may not agree 
in any other respect, — and particularly in the 
quiescence of the senses. In the important point of 
the state of the brain, it does not appear how there 
could be any agreement in the phenomenon ; as may 
be inferred from comparing the structure of insects, 
as respects their nerves and blood-vessels, with that 
of man. 

Insects, though possessed of nerves, have nothing 
similar to our brain and spinal cord, the two sources 
of our nerves of feeling and of motion, as so beauti- 
fully explained by the recent discoveries of Mr. Charles 
Bell. Instead of this, they have a chain of what are 
called ganglia, or bundles of nervous substance, and 
from each of these bundles nerves branch out to the 
parts contiguous, — each ganglion forming the centre 
of feeling to the parts to which its nerves run ; and 
hence it is that insects will live, and (so far as we 
can perceive) feel comparatively little general pain 
and inconvenience from the loss of their limbs or 
even of their heads. Thus the tail of a wasp or a 
bee will sting long after it is severed from the body, 
and the head of a dragon-fly will eat as voraciously 
fifter it is Qut oft‘, as if it had to supply an insatiable 


 


fitomach, — phenomena easily accounted for from the 
want of a brain, and from each ganglion having it# 
own set of nerves. This may be better understood by 
looking at the central chain of ganglia in the larva of 
the day-fly before figured*. 

Insects again differ from man in having no heart 
nor circulating blood, at least so far as has hitherto 
been discovered f. Dr. Carus, of Dresden, is, indeed, 
at present endeavouring to establish a claim to the dis- 
covery of the circulation of the blood in insects ; but 
this circulation, which is most probably only partial, 
has, we think, been observed by naturalists of a former 
age. “ De Geer,” say Kirby and Spence, “ whose 
love of truth and accuracy no one will call in 
question, saw the appearance of blood-vessels in 
the leg of the larva of a caddis fly (Phryganea^ 
Linn.), as Lyonnet did in those of a flea|, and in 
the transparent thigh of the bird fly (Ornithomyia 
avicularia) he discovered a pulse like that of an 
artery §. Baker, whose only object was to record 
what he saw, speaks of the current of the blood 
being remarkably visible in the legs of some small 
bugs II; what he meant by that term is uncer- 
tain, but they could not be spiders, which he had 
just distinguished. This author has likewise seen 
a green fluid passing through the vessels of the wing^ 
of grasshoppers *![ ; and M. Chabrier is of opinion 
that insects possess the power of propelling a fluid 
into the nervures of their wings, and withdrawing it 
at pleasure, as they are elevated or depressed**: but 

? See page 139. 

f See Cuvier, Anat. Corap. vol. iv. p. 478, &c. And Marcel 
de Serres, Mem. du Mus. pour 1819. 

X Lesser, vol. ii. p. 84, note. 

§ De Geer, vol. ii. p. 505 ; vol. vi. p. 287. 

II On the Microscope, vol. i. p. 130. ^ Ibid, 

?* Sur le Vol des Inssctes. 




these two last facts must be accounted for on other 
principles, as there is clearly no circulation 

The statement recently published by one of these 
authors (Mr. Spence), respecting the alleged dis- 
covery of insect circulation by Dr. Cams, is founded 
on facts which were shown and explained to him 
by the doctor himself. “ The first insect,” says 
Mr. Spence, “ to which Dr. Cams directed my 
attention, was the larva of ephemera vulgata (or an 
allied species), in which, near to the bronchiae and 
parallel with each side of the body, was very distinctly 
visible a constant current, towards the tail, of oblong 
globules swimming in a transparent fluid, propelled 
with a regular pulsating motion ; and on cutting the 
body of the larva across near the tail, three globules 
were most plainly seen pushed out of the divided 
vessels in a distinct mass, which increased at each 
pulsation. I cannot express the pleasure which it 
gave me, to see thus clearly this ocular demonstra- 
tion of one of the most important physiological dis- 
coveries of modern times ; and my gratification was 
heightened by the next object which Dr. Cams placed 
before his microscope, viz. — a specimen of semblis 
viridis (the green lace-winged fly), in which pre- 
cisely the same phenomena, but, if possible, more 
clearly, were seen in the nervures of the wings and 
in the antennae, in both which the constant current 
of globules was most apparent ; and in the former, 
the sudden turning of these globules, at the apex of 
the wing, out of the exterior nervure into a central 
one, with which it joins and forms an acute angle, 
was equally curious and striking. On cutting off the 
end of the antennae, precisely the same emission of 
globules (which soon assume a greenish tint) took 
place as in the former case, forming a mass, which 
was increased with a sudden gush at each pulsation. 

? Introd* vol. iv. p. 86. 





Dr. Cams has observed the same phenomena in the 
wings of Semblis hilineata^ and in the elytra (wing 
cases) of Lampyris iwctiluca (the glow-worm), and 
L, Italica^ as well as in the fin-like appendages at the 
tail of the larva of Agrion puella (the damsel dragon 
fly), in which he first made the discovery, and in 
which the circulation is remarkably distinct * ” 

We apprehend, as far as we can collect from this 
description, that the alleged discovery of Dr. Carus 
does not advance a step in demonstrating a circu- 
lation in insects similar to that of other classes of 
animals ; for it is to be recollected, that the dorsal 
vessel, the only organ in insects analogous to a 
heart, although it pulsates irregularly, has no ap- 
parent arteries or veins connected with it : and 
therefore the impulsions described by De Geer, the 
current mentioned by Baker, and the phenomena 
exhibited by Carus, furnish no proof whatever of 
a general circulatory system, though they appear to 
indicate local movements in the fluids of insects, 
agreeably to the original views of Chabrier, or those 
of Swammerdam formerly quoted t. 

It may appear to some, that the preceding has but 
a very remote connexion with the subject immediately 
before us; but we shall presently show its con- 
nexion with the phenomena of insect sleep. We 
agree with Professor Blumenbach, that sleep in man 
most probably consists in a diminished or impeded 
flow of arterial blood into the brain. For example, 
if, by cold feet, a fit of passion, or a heavy supper, 
a gush of blood is forced into the brain and stag- 
nates there, the consequence will be the snoring 
death-like sleep of apoplexy; and the same will 
happen, if a blow on the head, or a fever, throws 
a quantity of blood upon the brain. Blumenbach 

? Spence in Mag. of Nat. Hist., Jan. 1830, p.49. 
t See page 343. 




had ocular demonstration of the fact contended for, 
with respect to the diminished flow of blood, in a 
man whose brain was exposed by the accidental re- 
moval of a part of the skull ; for, whenever this man 
fell asleep, the brain was seen to shrink and subside, 
but the moment he awoke a tide of blood was seen 
rushing through the vessels and swelling the brain. 
The same is also proved by the fact, that in madness 
and inflammation of the brain, when the blood flows 
rapidly, the unhappy sufferer is altogether deprived 
of sleep, unless the current of the blood is retarded 
by strong doses of opium, or by taking away a large 
quantity by the lancet. It will follow, that when the 
blood-vessels of the brain are gorged, as well as when 
they are not sufficiently full, — sleep will be equally 
produced. Force more blood into the brain than can 
find room to flow, and drowsiness, sleep, perhaps 
apoplexy, will follow; — diminish the quantity, so that 
it may lack force to keep up the current, and sleep 
will also come on. On these principles it it is that 
thinking, by bestirring the brain and driving thither a 
brisker current of blood, prevents sleep; while, 
bathing the feet in warm water, eating a moderate 
supper, or rubbing the body with a flesh-brush, by 
drawing a superabundance of blood to the feet, to the 
stomach, or to the skin, will cause sleep. Again, it 
is a general law of animated nature, for rest to suc- 
ceed fatigue, as temporary insensibility succeeds vivid 
sensations. The pain of a burn, for example, comes 
and goes alternately; and by holding out the arm 
from the body, the feeling of fatigue and pain soon 
become so insupportable, that rest cannot be dis- 
pensed with. Sleep, then, seems to be a general 
consequence of this rest after fatigue. 

Wifti regard to insects, it is evident that many of 
the above facts will not at all apply ; for as insects 
have neither a heart nor a brain, their sleep cannot 





be proximately caused by a retarded current of blood. 
We want data also for determining whether similar 
effects are produced upon the senses of insects during 
their quiescence, or apparent sleep, as take place in 
ourselves. Tlie shutting of the eye-lids, next to 
motionless rest, is one of the most obvious charac- 
teristics of sleep in man ; but in insects nothing like 
this can be observed, because they have nothing 
analogous to eye-lids. The senses of insects, indeed, 
may not sleep at all — and what renders this the more 
probable is, that in the case of gnats, crane-flies 
(Tipulide^, moths, butterflies, &c., however long they 
may have been observed to be quiescent, or sleeping, 
in the same place, they are instantly on the alert at 
the approach of danger, though no noise be made to 
alarm them *. It may serve to illustrate this state of 
wakefulness in the senses of quiescent insects, that 
the senses in man do not all sleep in the same degree 
of profundity. This very curious fact was first, we 
believe, observed by M. Cabanis, who also found 
that some of our senses and members go to sleep 
sooner than others — in proportion, it may be pre- 
sumed to their fatigue from their waking exertions, 
and to the flow of blood through them. According 
to Cabanis, then, the muscles of the legs and arms 
are the first to become drowsy, and next those that 
sustain the head, which, losing its support, falls for- 
ward ; the muscles of the back follow, and it becomes 
bent. Among the senses, the eye is the first that 
goes to sleep ; and after it the smell, taste, hearing, 
and touch, become drowsy in succession. The sense 
of touch never sleeps so profoundly as the others,— 
a fact inferred from our frequent change of position 
during sleep, which must be the consequence of 
uneasy sensations of touch. Besides this, it is well 
known that a slight tickling of the soles of the feet 
* J.R, 





will waken a person whom no noise could rouse. In 
the order of their awaking again, taste and smell are 
always last, and sight appears more difficult to awaken 
than hearing ; for a slight noise will often rouse a 
sleep-walker, who had borne an intense light on his 
unshut eyes, without seeming in the least to feel its 
influence *, 

The torpidity of insects during winter, which in 
some of its circumstances is analogous to sleep, will 
require the less to be discussed here, that we have, 
under our three former divisions of Eggs, Pupae; and 
Larvae, considered it very amply. The number of 
insects, indeed, which hybernate in the perfect state 
are comparatively few. Of the brimstone butterfly 
(Gonepteryx Rhamni), Mr. Stephens tells us the se- 
cond brood appears in autumn, “ and of the latter,*' 
he adds, “ many individuals of both sexes remain 
throughout the winter, and make their appearance on 
the first sunny day in spring. I have seen them 
sometimes so early as the middle of February t*” 
The commonly perfect state of the wings in such 
cases might, we think, lead to the contrary con- 
clusion, that the butterfly has just been evolved 
from its chrysalis. Several other species, however, 
chiefly of the genus Vanessa, do live through the 
winter in the perfect state; but this, as far as ge- 
neral observation extends, can only be affirmed 
of the female. Yet will insects bear almost incre- 
dible degrees of cold with impunity. Out of the 
multiplicity of instances of this on record we shall 
select two. In Newfoundland, Captain Buchan saw 
a lake, which in the evening was entirely still and 
frozen over, but as soon as the sun had dissolved the 
ice in the morning, it was all in a bustle of anima- 
tion, in consequence, as was discovered, of myriads 

? Cabanis, Rapports du Physique ct Moral, 
f Illustrations, vol. i. p. 9. 




of flies let loose, while many still remained “ infixed 
and frozen round.” A still stronger instance is men- 
tioned by Ellis, in which a large black mass, like 
coal or peat upon the hearth, dissolved, when thrown 
upon the fire, into a cloud of mosquitoes (^Culicidai) 

It has been remarked by most writers upon the 
torpidity of warm-blooded animals, that cold does 
not seem to be its only cause, and the same appa- 
rently holds in the case of insects. Bees, indeed, 
which remain semi-torpid during the winter, may be 
prematurely animated into activity by the occurrence 
of some days of extraordinary mildness in spring ; 
but, what is not a little wonderful and inexplicable, 
they are not roused by much milder weather when 
it occurs before Christmas, — on the same principle, 
perhaps, that a man is more easily awakened after he 
has slept six or seven hours than in the earlier part 
of the night. Immediately after the first severe frost 
in the winter of 1829-30, we dug down into the 
lower chaml>ers of a nest of the wood-ant {Formica 
rufd)j at Forest Hill, Kent, which we had thatched 
thickly with fern-leaves the preceding November, both 
to mark the spot and to protect the ants in winter. 
About two feet deep we found the little colonists all 
huddled up in contiguous separate chambers, quite 
motionless till they were exy^osed to the warm sun- 
shine, when they began to drag themselves slug- 
gishly and reluctantly along. Even upon bringing 
some of them into a warm room, they did not awaken 
into summer activity, but remained lethargic, un- 
willing to move, and refusing to eat, and continued 
in the same state of semi-torpidity till their brethren 
in the woods began to bestir themselves to repair the 
damages caused by the winter storms in the out- 
works of their encampments t- 


? Quarterly Review, April 1821, p,200, t ^ 




The younger Huber has given an interesting ac- 
count of the hybernation of ants, which differs in 
some particulars from what we have observed of the 
wood-ant ; but he speaks of ants in general. The 
subject, indeed, derives importance from the popular 
opinion, that they amass wheat and other grain as a 
winter store, having been refuted by the experiments 
of Gould and other accurate observers. “We 
have endeavoured,” says M. Huber, “ to explain 
their preservation, by supposing them to fall into a 
state of torpor at this period. They, in fact, be- 
came torpid during the intense cold, but when the 
season is not very severe, the depth of their nest 
guards them from the effects of the frost : they do 
not become torpid unless the temperature is reduced 
to the second degree of Reaumur under the freezing 
point, (27° Fahrenheit). I have occasionally seen 
them walking upon the snow, engaged in their cus- 
tomary avocations. In so reduced a temperature, 
they would be exposed to the horrors of famine, 
were they not supplied with food by the pucerons, 
who, by an admirable concurrence of circumstances, 
which we cannot attribute to chance, become torpid 
at precisely the same degree of cold as the ants, and 
recover from this state also at the same time : the 
ants, therefore, always find them when they need 
them. 

“ Those ants that do not possess the knowledge of 
the mode of assembling these insects, are, at least, 
acquainted with their retreat ; they follow them to the 
feet of the trees and the branches of the shrubs they 
before frequented, and pass at the first degree of frost 
along the hedges, following the paths which con- 
duct to these insects. They bring back to the re- 
public a small quantity of honey ; a very little sufficing 
for their support in winter. As soon as the ants 
recover from their torpid state, they venture forth to 





procure their food. The aliment contained in their 
stomach is, on their return, equally distributed to 
their companions. These juices scarcely evaporate, 
during this season, owing to the thickness of the 
honey rings investing the body. I have known ants 
preserve, during a considerable time, their interhal 
stock of provisions, when they could not impart it to 
their companions. When the cold increases in a 
gradual manner, (and this is commonly what the 
ants experience, who are screened from it by a thick 
wall of earth,) they collect and lie upon each other 
by thousands, and appear all hooked together. Is 
this done in order to provide themselves a little heat ? 
I presume this to be the case, but our thermometers 
are not sufficiently delicate to indicate if this be really 
the fact*.” 

During the frosts of 1629-30, we opened two 
nests of the yellow ant (Formica jflavd), in which we 
found the inhabitants by no means torpid or inactive, 
although not so lively as in summer; but these 
nests were in a peculiarly warm situation, being both 
in the old trunks of willows, rendered quite spong}^ 
by the dry-rot, and facing the south-west, where they 
had the benefit of every glimpse of sunshine. We 
searched with great minuteness for the eggs of the 
aphides mentioned by Huber, but without success, 
and we cannot account for their means of subsist- 
ence, unless they fed on the various insects and crus- 
taceous animals which abounded in the trees, 
(Onisciy JulidtBy &c.) They were also, in both in- 
stances, within a yard of a stream of water, to the 
vicinity of which we have observed that this species 
is partial, and it is not improbable that it may form 
an indispensable part of their subsistence. No spe- 
cies of ants, indeed, can live without drinking. In 
February of the same year, immediately after the 
* Huber on Ants, p. 239, See also this volume, pages 113-116. 




breaking up of the first fVost, we also observed num* 
bers of the small black ant {Formica fiisca) running 
about the sunny sides of hedge-banks ; and though 
we did not trace them to their winter quarters, we 
think it not improbable, from their very early appear- 
ance, that they had never been completely torpid 
The bee is popularly believed to hybernate, the seven 
winter sleepers being said to be, “the bat, the bee, the 
butterfly, the cuckoo, and the three swallows but, 
like many of the popular notions on natural history, 
this is almost wholly erroneous, for at least, out of 
these seven, the four birds certainly do not become 
torpid. With respect to the bee, again, we find some 
of the most distinguished observers at variance. 
Reaumur is an advocate for the popular opinion. 
“ It has been established,’* he says, “ with a wis- 
dom, which we cannot but admire, — with which 
everything in nature has been made and ordained, — 
that during the greater part of the time in which the 
country furnishes nothing to bees, they have no 
longer need to eat. The cold which arrests the ve- 
getation of plants — which deprives our fields and 
meadows of their flowers — throws the bees into a 
state in which nourishment ceases to be necessary to 
them : it keeps them in a sort of torpidity, in which 
no transpiration from them takes place, or at least 
during which the quantity of what transpires is so 
inconsiderable, that it cannot be restored by aliment 
without their lives being endangered. In winter, 
while it freezes, we may observe without fear the in- 
terior of hives that are not of glass ; for we may lay 
them on their sides, and even turn them bottom 
upwards, without putting any bee into motion. We 
see the bees crowded and closely pressed one against 
the other ; little space then suffices for them t-’’ — 
Again, when mentioning the custom of putting bee- 
• J.K. t Mem.v.p.667. 





hives during the winter into out-houses and cellars, 
he says, ‘‘that in such situations, the air, though 
more temperate than out of doors, during the greater 
part of the winter, is yet sufficiently cold to keep the 
bees in that species of torpidity which does away 
with the necessity of their eating He also says, 
positively, that the milder the weather, the more risk 
there is of the bees consuming their honey before the 
spring, and dying of hunger ; confirming his posi- 
tion by an account of a striking experiment, in 
which .a hive that he transferred during winter into 
his study, where the temperature was usually, in the 
day, 10° or 12° of Rt^aumur’s thermometer above 
freezing, or 59° Fahrenheit, though the bees were pro- 
vided with a plentiful supply of honey, that if they 
had been in a garden would have served past the 
end of April, had consumed nearly their whole stock 
before the end of February t. 

But the elder Huber records some observations 
directly opposed to these, affirming unequivocally, 
that, so far from being torpid in \^dnter, the heat in a 
well peopled hive is as high as 25° Rt^aumur, or 86° 
Fahrenheit, even when the thermometer in the open 
air is several degrees below zero, the heat thus ob- 
served being generated in the hive by their clustering 
together, and keeping themselves in motion ; and 
even in the middle of winter they may be heard 
buzzing as they always do when ventilating the 
hive, — a process which appears to have been origi- 
nally discovered by Huber, and of which, on account 
of its connexion with the disputed question before us, 
we shall give his own description : 

“ During fine weather,” (in summer), says he, “ a 
certain number of bees always appear before the en- 
trance of the hive occupied in vibrating their wings, 
but still more are found to be engaged in ventilating 
* Mem. voL v. p. 682. f Ib. vol. v. p. 668. 




the interior. The ordinary place of ventilation is on 
the board ; those outside of the entrance have their 
heads towards it ; those within have them in the 
opposite direction. 

‘‘ We may affirm that they arrange themselves re- 
gularly to ventilate more at ease, thus forming files, 
which terminate at the entrance, and sometimes dis- 
posed like ; so many diverging rays. This order is 
not uniform, but is probably owing to the necessity 
for the ventilating bees ^ving way to those going 
and coming, whose rapid course compels them to 
range themselves in a file, to avoid being hurt or 
overthrown every instant. 

“ Sometimes above twenty bees ventilate at the 
bottom of a hive, at other times their number is 
more circumscribed, and their employment of various 
duration. We have seen them engaged in it during 
twenty-five minutes, only taking breath, as it were, 
by the shortest interruption of the vibration. On 
ceasing, they are succeeded by others, so that there 
is never any intermission of the buzzing of a popu- 
lous hive. 

“ If under the necessity of ventilating during 
winter, being then united near the centre of the mass 
towards the top of their dwelling, doubtless the bees 
perform this important function among vacuities of 
the irregular combs, where there is room for their 
wings to expand, as at least half an inch is requisite 
for them to play freely. 

“ The ventilation of the bees, or the buzzing 
which denotes it, seems to me more active during 
winter than at any other time. It was easy to prove 
that this operation established a current of air ; for 
anemometers of light paper or cotton, hung by a 
thread, were impelled towards the entrance and re- 
pelled from it with equal rapidity. The action on 
them never was entirely interrupted, and its force 





appeared proportional to the number of bees &iming 
themselves. 

If some cultivators of bees shut up the entrance 
of their hives in winter without prejudice to the bees, 
it must be considered that the air will penetrate 
through the straw composing them. 1 confided an 
experiment on this to M. Burnens, then at a dis- 
tance from me. Having closed down a very popu* 
Ions straw hive fast on its board, he found that a 
piece of the finest paper, suspended by a hair before 
the entrance, oscillated above an inch off the perpen- 
dicular line. He poured liquid honey through an 
opening in the top, when a buzzing soon began, and 
a tumult increasing within, several bees departed. 
The oscillations now became stronger and more fre- 
quent. His experiments were made at three o’clock, 
the sun shining and the thermometer in the shade 
standing at 44®*.” 

Swammerdam also seems to indicate that bees 
remain active during the winter, and in order to 
enable them to bear its inclemency, they both fortify 
their hive and provide a store of honey. “ The order,” 
he says, “ in which bees that live in the winter 
months conduct themselves is this ; they first open 
the cells and eat the honey deposited in the lowest 
part of the hive, ascending by degrees to the upper 
parts. This they do in order to preserve a mutual 
warmth between them ; and the female deposits her 
eggs in the little cells as they are emptied. There- 
fore I discovered both stock and nymphs about the 
beginning of March. Let no one be surprised at 
this, since towards the beginning of August I have 
seen some thousand eggs enclosed in the ovary of a 
female bee ; so that it is natural for the bees at any 
time of the year to lay their eggs and increase their 
family t**’ 

Huber on Bees, p. 295. f Book of Nature, i. 160. 




John Hunter, whose authority stands as high as 
any on record, found a hive to grow lighter in a cold 
than in a warm week of winter, and that a hive, from 
November 10th till February 9th, lost more than 
four pounds in weight* , a loss which could not well 
be ascribed to evaporation. 

These discrepancies among naturalists so distin- 
guished as both shrewd and faithful observers, forbid 
us, we think, to come to any decided conclusion on the 
subject, till further researches and experiments have 
been made. It is not improbable, however, that the 
truth lies in the middle between the two extremes, — 
for it is quite accordant with what we know both of 
insects and other animals, that a high degree of cold 
should render them torpid, while they may continue 
active if there should be a certain degree of warmth. 
The following observations by the ingenious Mr. 
Gough, of Manchester, form an interesting illustra- 
tion of this curious subject with respect to another 
insect 

“ Those,” says he, “ who have attended to the 
manners of the hearth cricket {Acheta domesticd) 
know that it passes the hottest part of the summer 
in sunny situations, concealed in the crevices of walls 
and heaps of rubbish. It quits its summer abode 
about the end of August, and fixes its residence by 
the fireside of kitchens or cottages, where it mul- 
tiplies its species, and is as merry at Christmas as 
other insects in the dog-days. Thus do the comforts 
of a warm hearth afford the cricket a safe refuge, 
not from death, but from temporary torpidity, which 
it can support for a long time, when deprived by 
accident of artificial warmth. — I came to the know- 
ledge of this fact,” continues Mr. Gough, “ by plant- 
ing a colony of these insects in a kitchen, where a 
constant fire was kept through the summer, but 
* Phil. TransJor 1790, p. 161. 





which is discontinued from November tillJune,with 
the exception of a day once in six or eight weeks. The 
crickets were brought from a distance, and let go in 
this room, in the beginning of September, 1806 ; 
here they increased considerably in the course of two 
months, but were not heard or seen after the fire was 
removed. Their disappearance led me to conclude 
that the cold had killed them ; but in this 1 was 
mistaken ; for a brisk fire being kept up for a whole 
day in the winter, the warmth of it invited my colony 
from their hiding-place, but not before the evening : 
after which they continued to skip about and chirp 
the greater part of the following day, when they 
again disappeared ; being compelled, by the return- 
ing cold, to take refuge in their former retreats. 
They left the chimney corner on the 25th of May, 
1807,. after a fit of very hot weather, and revisited 
their wiixter residence on the 31st of August. Here 
they spent the summer merely, and lie torpid at 
present (January 1808) in the crevices of the chim- 
ney, with the exception of those days on which they 
are recalled to a temporary existence by the comforts 
of a fire 

* Reeve, Essay on the Torpidity of Animals, p. 84. 



[The subject of Insects will be completed in a Third 
Volume, which will comprise many Miscellaneous 
Facts that were not capable of being classed under 
the heads of “ Insect Architecture,’’ or “ Insect 
Transformations with directions for the collection 
and preservation of Insects for purposes of study ; 
and a popular account of the various Systems of 
Classification.] 






Page 

Comparative fignres of a bee and a syrphus 

Cell of a queen of the Termites bellicosit broken open in front  

Ihc labourers surrounding the queen, and carrying off the eggs 

Groups of eggs of the rose-leaf roller on a pane of glass 

Plants of sphofrohulus, natural size .

Ditto, magnihed view .. 

 Ditto, sectional view, with the seed just previous (o projection .

 Ditto, with the seed in the act of projection 

 Ditto, immediately after projection 

 Microscopic views of apple and pear mould . 

. Kggs of a butterfly and of a moth, magnified 

. Magnified egg of the angle-shades moth 

 Sea egg, natural size .. 

 Egg of the meadow brown butterfly, magnified  

 Egg of the briinstone moth, magnified 

 Dung-fiy, with its eggs magnified, and mode of deposition 

 Lace-winged fly, and position of its eggs on a twig of lilac 

 Ichneumon fly, with its ovipositor, magnified 

. Ichneamon flies ovipositing

. Generation of ichneumons, seven figures

 Magnified view of a parasite fly (^Evania apendigaster) 

 'Bee pAraaite (^Stglops Melittof) 

 Leaf-mining maggots and fly, four figures  

 Gnats forming their egg-boats 

 Magnified view of the boat of gnats’ eggs  

Female gypsey moths, and modes of depositing their eggs, four 

figures 

Females of the brown and gold-tailed moths, two figures .

 Tweezers of the brown and gold tailed moths, magnified, two 

figures 

 Spiral groups of eggs of an unknown moth .

 Eggs of the lackey moth wound spirally round a twig of hawthorn, 

natural size and magnified, two figures 

 Eggs of the coccus, covered with down, and with the bodies of the 

mothers 

 Magnified cochenille insects, male and female, two figures

 Eggs of the hawthorn coccus, covered by the body of the dead 

mother 

 Ditto, one of these magnified

 Section of ditto, showing the eggs within 

 Suspended spiders’ nests, three figures  

 VapourcT moth, male and female, and deposition of eggs, three figures
 Drum of the ear, shewing that there is no passage through it to 

the brain 

38. Chequered blow fly 






Abdomen of dittOy opened and magnified, shewing the coil of 

young larvn ib. 

Coil of larva of ditto, partly unwound ib. 

 Large grey blow-fly, with the abdomen opened, shewing the young 

maggots

 Breathing apparatus of the maggot of a large grey blow-fly . ib. 

 Spider flies, two figures 

Generation of a water-mite, four figures 

 Hatching of the egg of the garden spider, four figures 

 Egg of the privet hawk moth, magnified, shewing the inclosed 

embryo 125 

 Caterpillar of ditto, when grown 

 Construction of eggs to facilitate the escape of the larvae, three 

figures 

. Supposed animal and vegetable metamorphoses  

 Egg of the large cabbage butterfly 

 Embryo butterflies as they appear in the bodies of caterpillars, 

two figures

 Female of the perfect cabbage butterfly .... ib. 

 Magnified view of a section of the bud of a laburnum . 

 Section of a bean-seed ib. 

 Seed-leaves, root, and first true leaf of the beech • • . ib. 

 Dissection of the water grub of a May-fly . 

 Caterpillars of the Clifden nonpareil feeding on the grey poplar  

Ditto, in a more advanced stage of growth  

 Wnlking-leaf insect, magnified 

 Transformations of the brimstone moth  

. Caterpillars of the swallow-tailed moth 

 A two- winged fly (Foluceilapiumata)  

 Transformations of the puss moth  

 Lobster caterpillar 

Aquatic pubs of gnats in a glass vessel of water 

Larv» of the common gnat, floating in water, two figures 

 Buoy-like structure in the tail of a water-grub of a two-winged fly 

 Telescopic-tailed water larvae, three figures

WAter-worms, two figures 

 Grub of the dragon-fly, and various parts of its body magnified, 

five figures 

 Mask of the dragon-fly grub, four figures 

 Moulting of caterpillars, and magnified views of parts, ten figures 

 Exuvia and pulmonary vessels of the rhinoceros beetle 

 Goat moth caterpillar escaping from a drinking-glass . 

 Magnified view of the dorsal muscles of the upper half of the oossus

 Caterpillar of cossus escaping from under a loaded glass 

 Methods used by spiders and caterpillars for ascending their 

threads

 Caterpillar of the tiger-moth, two figures

 Grub of the museum beetle, natural size and magnified, two figures ib. 

. Tail of ditto, magnified 

 Hairs of ditto, magnified, two figures . 

 Thorny hairs of caterpillars, three figures 

. Green Wtoise beetle {Cam'da 

 Grub of ditto, magnified, to shew its anal forks .. 

 Grub of ditto, with its canopy of excrements  

Spit frog-hopper, and froth covering the grub of the same, two 

figures 

 Caterpillar of the drinker moth, two figures  

 Caterpillar of the angle-shades moth ib. 






 Moth of ditto ih. 

Viscera of the cosaust two figures

Caterpillar of KanesM itrticee, magnified .... 

 Intestines of ditto ib. 

Intestinal canals of the caterpillar, pupae, and butterfijr, five figures  

 Buff-tip caterpillar, and moth of ditto, two figures .

 Encampment of the caterpillar of the small ermine on the Siberian 

crab .

 Transformations of the gamma moth, five figures 

. Saw-fly of the gooseberry, and caterpillars, four figures 

 Caterpillar of the saw-fly {Nematus Caprca) on the osier  

 Caterpillar of the saw-fly (Selandria mni) on the alder . 

 Transformations of the grain moth, seven figures .  

 Transformations of the honeycomb moth, seven figures . 

 Transformations of the cockchafer, nine figures . 

. Wire-worm and click beetle 

 Zaltrus gibbus 

. Melolont/ui rujicornia ib. 
. Corn weevil 
 Meal-worm, and the beetle produced from it . 

 Transformations of the tabby moth, six figures . 

Intestinal worms, three figures

 Churchyard beetle, in the grub and perfect state, four figures 

. Nut and apple-tree beetles, eight figures 

. Bark mined in rays by beetle grubs 

 Locust 

 Ovipositor and eggs of the crane-fly 

Crane fly ovipositing, and the larva beneath in the earth feeding 

upon grass roots 

. Germination of a grain of wheat 

 Transformation of the wheat-fly, three figures 

 The Hessian fly . 

 The Markwick fly 

 Transformations of the cheese-hopper, seven figures 
 Transformations of Bibio hortulanus^ six figures 
. Transformations of the lady-bird, six figures 
 Transformations of the lace-winged fly and syrphus, five figures 
 Cateipillar of Vanessa Antiopay three figures 
 Suspended caterpillar of Vanessa Antiopa splitting its skin for 

the evolution of the chrysalis, four figures .
. Chrysalides of Vanessa urticee suspended, w'ith the anal hooks 

magnified, and old skin fallen off, four figures .
 Black-veined white butterfly, caterpillar, and chrysalis, three 

figures 

Caterpillar and chrysalis of swallow- tailed butterfly, three- 

figures 

 Pupae of blow-fly and syrphus, four figures 

 Transformations of the gnat (Corct/tra pfumtcomis), six figures

 Pupa of chameleon fly, three figures  

 Pupa of lappit moth, three figures 

Chrysalis of Gonepteryx li/tamni 

 Tapa of Laria fascelina ? 

 F uyifi of Sphinx Ligustri . 

 Spiracles of pupae, two figures

 Pupae of the gnat and Tipula . four figures

 Transformations of CV«ronoi»«sjj/ttnwm, four figures 

. Case fly, with the pupa, and the grate-works of the opening of 

the latter, four fibres


 

.

Fapm o( Coitnt wnd JEgfiria 

TlieOy and ^pa of the ant-lion, foai' figures 
Transformation of the dragon-fly, five figures

Blow-fly, magnified, two fignre

Wings of insects, shewing the nervnres, six figures 

Twenty. plume moth, two figures 345 

'^i^plume moth ib. 

Specimens of deformed batterflies and moth, three figures 
Red sptder, and the head, magnified, two figures  

Head of the garden spider magnified

PAalangium, 

Hydrometra stagnorum^ magnified. 

Floiaria vagahunda, magnified 

iVetdes magnified 

Hydrometra^ta^nortim, natural size 

J^dracAaajjf&o^rajsAtc'O, magnified, two figures 

Velia rivulorum ib. 

Jtt/ia terrestns, two figures 

Oil-beetle

Nycterihia Hermanni  

Feet of the fly, greatly magnified, four figures 

Flea, magnified 

Velvet spring-tail, magnified 

American snider (Mygale avwularia) destroying a bird 

Muscular ribbons for moving the wings in JSyi'phus inanis, mag- 
nified, two figures 

Syrphus  






as the emperor moth sat one evening in may fanned by numberless wings in the moons silver ray  while around him the zephyrs breathed sweetest perfume  thus he spoke to his dwarf with the ragged white plume that vain butterflys ball i hear was most splendid and as the world says very fully attended though she never asked us but assigned as a cause we were all much too heavy to gallope and waltz  what impertinence this want of grace to ascribe to the lord of the whole lepidopterous tribe i tooll give a ball and such folks to chastise  ill not be at home to these pert butterflies bid the empress come hither and well talk about  what arrangements to make for a capital rout the empress obeyed her lords summons with speed  and proceeded her visiting tablets to read  that those of her subjects whose homage was booked in that coveted record might not be oerlooked then the bufftip began to write each moth a card  having one for herself just by way of reward first ask says the emperor the glory of kent  on having much beauty my mind is quite bent the belle too of brixton the marvel du jour  and the peachblossom moth youll invite i am sure the sphinx too shall come who makes riddles so well and the gipsey be ready our fortunes to tell  mother shipton shall chaprone the lovely black i and those awkward greek girls lambda gamma and chi hebrew character too who for routs has a passion  and ill ask mrs gothic though shes out of fashion  for i love my old friends and had rather that they  should partake of our feast than the idle and gay  who flutter about without object or reason  just live for an hour and last but a season  how little alas do great moths bear in mind that their tenure of life is of just the same kind  youre right said the empress and truly twere shabby  texclude from our party poor old mrs tabby  and the rustics ill ask though not one has a gown  in which to appear save of black grey or brown  and some of them go too so feathered and flounced  that the coxcomb called prominent on them pronounced  a sentence of censure quite just but so tart  that i felt when i heard it quite cut to the heart  but now to proceed sire the leopard i vote  be razed from our list with that ugly old goat  who in youth made such terrible use of his jaws  that i dread i confess een the sight of his claws  and as to his muscles tis said that when counted  to four thousand and just fortyone they amounted  of musk too im told he sheds such perfume  that wherever he goes he fills the whole room  exclude him we will with the old dromedary  the elephant cunning and fox too so wary  that though i dont know it for certain im told  they cheat at ecarté like hermes of old  the ghost and deaths head and that terrible host  would but scare all the guestshere the emperor lost  for a moment his patience and cried to his spouse  if thus you proceed maam my anger youll rouse  like th egyptians of old ill have at my feast  a figure of death or his crossbones at least  to remind all our guests of the limited span  that to moths is allotted as well as to man  and how een in the midst of enjoyments gay hour  we are still in deaths stern and inflexible power  so let them have cards and ill go and prepare  for receiving our friends the best possible fare  the monarch then went with the eyed hawk his scout  to search for a spot fit for giving his rout  a green ring he found the work of a fairy  and thinking it looked both commodious and airy  he called to him brimstone to measure the ground  for another geometra could not be found  of this workman he knew the correctness full well  what he wrought was as nice as if done by a spell  the spot was judged proper and erected in haste  were some well fashioned rooms which displayed his good taste  carpet moths were appointed to stencil the floor  the clothes moths with gossamer covered the door  mahogany and wainscot were neither deficient  in offering their aid which proved most efficient  while veneers both rosy and yellow were able  timprove by their help the decayed supper table  for the crockery china mark promised to strive  and galleria offered to steal from a hive  profusion of honey pinguinalis brought butter  and with wax cereana came all in a flutter  these presents the emperor gladly accepted  save gallerias theft which with scorn was rejected  so little do moths of great minds patronise  the base who by fraud or extortion would rise  in the mean time the empress her swifts had sent out  to deliver the cards for this elegant rout  puss sent an excuse with the kitten engaged  and the eggar poor lady was highly enraged  that her numerous offspring requiring her care  prevented her joining a party so rare  the burnets brown pinioned the dingy brocades  the black raven feather and sweet angle shades  had promised that day with the tussock to dine  a lady of fashion whose hour was nine  but when they received their dread sovereigns command  they yielded to customs imperious demand  for moths with us mortals in this do agree  that all parties must bow to a monarchs decree  lady lappet being ill the poplar lutestring  the two misses nonpareil promised to bring  and the spectacle moth too near sighted to go  sent his ward the bright eye with the flame furbelow  whose young lover the beautiful brave unicorn  had been shot in a duel with the red striped hawthorn  not quite fit to appear the gallant swallow tail  at the doctors with anger continued to rail  he having been lamed by the awkward bulrush  to the serious alarm of the fair maidens blush  the day now arrived and at nine of the night  the glowworm being hired the highways to light  the guests gan to assemble and each was announced  by the herald who loudly their names all pronounced  the erminea lady of noble degree  introduced a long train of her large family  some in muslin some satin were chastely arrayed  while the emeraldthe pearl and the mocha  displayed  their jewels so costly that poor burnished brass  unnoticed was suffered the evening to pass  from the banks of the niger the blackamoor brought  a fat moorwho presented a tyger just caught  an old gentlewomanhad promised to bring  a musical miss who divinely could sing  but whose fair head no larger than that of a dot  was filled with the thought of a true lovers knot  so she hemd and she had then unblushingly told  how she caught as she came a most violent cold  and felt such oppression and pain in her throat  that she scarcely dared venture to utter a note  and thus with most misses of human creation  how often their colds are but mere affectation  the dancing began and soft music was heard  provided twas said by the sweet humming bird  old colonel gold spangle his dancing days past  volunteered with good humour the dances to cast  to the forward miss portland captain christian he brought  who aided by mars the young lady had caught  for moths like their betters as i have been told  are mightily taken with scarlet and gold  the foresters danced arrayed all in green  with the clear wingswhose beauty gave life to the scene  the mouse quite enamoured entreated in vain  the hand of the lovely pease blossom to gain  and the satellite though he till now had sat still  made up to the seraph to dance a quadrille  the quakers who neer had been seen at a ball  with the coronets galloped around the great hall  and the sad mourning widow her weeds put away  to waltz with the lustrous japan now quite gay  while the magpie obtained universal applause  by fluttering a hornpipe upon his hind claws  the vapourer came not but he was no loss  for wherever he went he was stupid and cross  and his wife an old dowdy bereft of all wings  was unfit to appear as th associate of kings  the daggercame armed and looked all around  but his charmer miss snout was no where to be found  for she had not been asked and the figure of eight  with his cousin the sprawler joined the party so late  that morn was forth peeping and the dancing had done  when spring usher announced the young beautiful nun  the gnomana now indexed the hour of four  the guests were assembled around the great door  which the lacqueys threw open and each in his rank  found a seat for himself and they all ate and drank  with a relish that would not disgrace the guildhall  to compare for a moment such great things with small  where londons lord mayor and his aldermen deign  to feast upon turtle and tipple champagne  old drinker the butler of wine served the best  and a footman was placed at the chair of each guest  in orange in yellow or black coats dressed out  for their liveries twas said were all made for the rout  the emperor began mirth and glee to inspire  when a loud cry was heard of the chimneys on fire  all started in fear from the table to learn  if the house was in flames or likely to burn  each snatched up a candle so left the room dark  and the moment was seized by the chamomile shark  to plunder the table the yorkshire magpie  strove also with his share of booty to fly  but was stopped by the lacqueys who then in a trice  demolished themselves every thing that was nice midst this glorious confusion a mischievous pug  contrived of the claret to empty each jug  but not unperceived by young miss exclamation  who by her loud cries caused immense consternation  meanwhile came the sweep with the chimney sweeps boy  and two other assistants who ran to employ  every means they could think of to put out the flame  in which they succeeded and found that the blame  belonged to the housewifewho had thrown in the fire  some grease which occasioned the accident dire  the guests in a panic had now left alone  the emperor and empress their ills to bemoan  said the empress my dear let us never more try  with the butterflies party so vainly to vie  for what with the heat the fatigue and the fright  i never before passed so trying a night  i would
 not again undergo the vexation  of such a soirée for the wealth of a nation  with you i agree the sage emperor replied  who deemed it a lesson to cure them of pride  and i trust that the thread of our lives will spin out  ere we ever again attempt such a rout alas we must own we were never designed  to flit in the sunshine or soar on the wind  natures changeless decree has allotted its share  to each beast of the field to each bird of the air to each reptile that creeps to each insect that flies and who dares to rebel against nature but dies




We must tell our little readers something about this number of their
Library. It was sent to us by a very kind old uncle of ours, who, when
we were young, was so much from home, visiting various places in the
world, that we do not remember seeing him very often at that period. At
last, the old man, finding that he could not bear fatigue as he had done
when young, determined to come home; and we had heard so much about him
that we were quite anxious to see him. He came to our house one evening,
and appeared rather odd to us; but he was so good-natured, and told us
so many curious things, that we soon forgot his odd appearance.

The old gentleman brought home with him a very large number of books,
and a great many strange things which he had gathered in his travels,
such as stones, and dried insects, and leaves, and flowers, and stuffed
birds, and animals. He did not stay with us long, but went to the
village where he was born, and built a small house to which he carried
all his books and curiosities, and said that he should spend the rest of
his days there.

We sometimes pay him a visit. The last time we were there, we found him
talking to several children around him. In the beginning of the book
there is a picture of the old gentleman. After you have looked at it,
you may read the letter which he sent us, and learn how he came to write
this book.

  Your friends,
            The Publishers.




UNCLE PHILIP'S LETTER.


  My dear Nephews,

I was very much pleased to receive the numbers of your Library for
Boys and Girls which you sent to me. You know I am now an old man,
and have travelled a great deal, and seen a great many strange things
in the course of my life. I am too old to travel any more, and so I
am quietly living in the cottage I built by the side of that pleasant
and shady little stream where I played when I was a boy. I read my
books, and especially that best of all of them, my Bible; and so am
patiently waiting till my Heavenly Father shall call me to take my last
journey; when I hope, for the sake of the blessed Saviour, to go to Him.
Sometimes I walk out into the village, and meet the children and have
a long talk with them. They all know me; and very often, some of them
will come to my house, and ask me to tell them about things which I have
seen in my travels or read of in books: and so I spend many happy hours
with the little creatures; for you know how much I love children. When
I had read the books you sent to me, I lent them to the children, who
were delighted; and I thought that if I should sometimes write down what
we here talked about, it might please the little boys and girls for whom
you print your books, and perhaps they might learn something from our
conversations which would be useful: and so I determined to send them to
you, from time to time, to print, if you pleased.

If you think fit to print what I send, just tell your little readers who
I am; an aged and quiet old man, who is very fond of little boys and
girls, and wishes them to be wise and good here, and happy hereafter,
and that I am your

                                          Uncle Philip.
  _Newtown, Feb_. 1833.

P.S. If you print what I send now, please to print the Preface to
Parents, which I also send; in order that they may, by reading it,
see what sort of a book Uncle Philip has been making for their dear
children, and may be satisfied that it will not harm them to read it.




PREFACE TO PARENTS.


The author of the following book avails himself of the opportunity
afforded by its publication, to address a word to those who sustain the
delightful and responsible relation of parents.

To such of that class as may honour by a perusal this humble attempt
to interest and instruct their offspring, the author need not say that
the subject of his book possesses for himself peculiar attractions: it
will readily be perceived that he has found a charm in the pursuits of
the naturalist. The votary of a favourite science would anticipate too
much, should he expect every one to partake of the enthusiasm which is
apt to stimulate him; it is wisely and kindly ordered that we shall
not all be enthusiasts in the same direction. The author, however,
still ventures to hope, that in his subject there is enough to attract,
though it may fail to fascinate. He hopes, too, that it will be found
not attractive merely, but profitable also to his young countrymen.
There are many reasons on which to found such a hope. If to entertain
reverence for our Maker, to admire and adore his wisdom and goodness
in the illustrations of nature, thankfully to acknowledge and duly to
improve the superiority which mind confers, be exercises in which a wise
parent would desire to train a child,--the study of natural science
is admirably adapted to the attainment of these objects. Again, if it
be desirable to encourage habits of patient observation, accuracy of
investigation, and soundness of thought; let the volume of nature be
opened before the youthful mind. If to learn _things_ be better than
to learn _words_, it is important to place things before the growing
intellects of the young. Let it not be supposed that to present matters
of science intelligibly to the minds of children is a hopeless task. It
requires not learning or maturity of understanding to perceive a _fact_;
it needs only the ordinary senses which God has bestowed alike upon
children and their parents. Natural science is emphatically the science
of _facts_; built upon any other foundation it becomes conjecture
merely: and he knows but little of the mind of a child who is not aware
of the facility with which a fact is impressed upon it. The secret of
instructing the young will be found to consist more in the mode of
communication than in the nature of the subject.

As to the style of this work a word may be said; not, of course, for
the purpose of disarming criticism (for truly the writer has never
supposed his trifle worth the critic's labour or notice), but simply to
remark, that the object has been to write for the minds of _children_;
if the book be intelligible to them, the utmost ambition of Uncle Philip
will be attained. Truth and plainness were all he sought. The first he
believes he has attained; and to determine his success in attempting
the last, he turns from the parents, and looks for the decision of the
question to the suffrages of the children. He would rather hear the
expression of satisfaction from the lips of one intelligent little
reader, than receive the words of approbation from many who are elders;
the first is testimony derived from experience, the last is but opinion.
Children always know better than any one else does what books they
understand.

In conclusion, the author owes it to himself to say to the parents
of his young countrymen, and to the patrons of the "Boy's and Girl's
Library," that what he has written will be found on the side of religion
and morals. So far as these important points are concerned, the writer
is not ashamed to avow himself a Christian; nor yet does he mean to make
it the subject of boasting. In his simple view, Christianity is a very
quiet and gentle thing, which eschews strife, and promotes practical
goodness; and truly can he say, that he has indulged in some of his
happiest and, as he trusts, his holiest musings when, in the solitary
pursuit of his favourite science,--to use the language of good old
Izaak Walton, that simple-hearted lover of God, and all his works,--"he
has looked upon the wonders of nature with admiration, or found some
harmless insect to content him, and pass away a little time, without
offence to God, or injury to man."






                                                                 
  About a Fly that can work with a Saw and a Rasp, like the Carpenter 


  About Grasshoppers and Bees that bore Holes with a Gimlet          


  About Animals that are Tailors                                    

 
  About the first Paper in the World made by Wasps                  


  A Story about Tom Smith, and of Bees with Brushes and Baskets, and
  of a Bird with a Chisel, and a Gnat with a Lancet                  

  About Animals that can do Mason's Work                             


  About Animals that throw Dirt with a Spade; and about an Animal
  with a Hook; and about one that is a Wire-drawer                   


  About a Door, with a Hinge and Spring to it, made by a Spider; and
  the Difference between God's Work and Man's                        

  A Story about a Philosopher and his Kite; and about Ants that
  have Awls, and build Cities, and Stairs, and Bridges, and many
  other Things                                                      

  
  More about the white Ants                                        

 
  About some other Ants that are very good Masons, and build Walls
  and Ceilings; and a Story about a very sensible Ant which seemed
  to think a little                                                

  About Ants that go to War, and fight Battles; and about some that
  are Thieves, and have Slaves                                     

 
  A Voyage; and an Animal that makes itself into a Ship; and of an
  Insect that builds a Boat, and floats about in a Canoe; and of
  another that pumps Water, and wears a Mask; and of a Spider that
  builds a Raft, and floats upon it                                 

  About an Insect with Tweezers, and another with Pincers; and how
  a Fly's Foot is made, so as to stick to the Wall                 

  How Hats are made; and about Animals that can make Felt
  like the Hatter                                                   


  About Birds that are Weavers, and the Politician Bird; a
  Story about some Philosophers; and what may be learned
  from these Conversations                                        




NATURAL HISTORY.






     _Uncle Philip tells the Children about a Fly that can work
     with a Saw and a Rasp, like the Carpenter._


"Well, boys, this is a beautiful day. The sun is shining brightly, and
the birds are singing, and the insects are flying about, and the grass
is green, and every thing appears pleasant, and you feel happy too, and
have come, I suppose, to see old Uncle Philip."

"Yes, Uncle Philip, we are tired of playing now, and so we have come to
ask you to talk with us, and tell us about some of the curious things
you know."

"Well, boys, I will tell you about some very strange things. I will talk
to you about animals that know how to work with tools like a man."

"Work with tools, Uncle Philip! That is strange; but we know it is so,
if you say so; because you will not tell us any stories but true ones.
But where do they get the tools?"

"Ah, boys, 'the hand that made them is _divine_!' They get them where we
get all that is useful and good,--from God. The Bible says that He '_is
wise in heart, and wonderful in working_;' and he has made many a poor
little insect, and given it tools to work with for its comfort, as good
and perfect as any that man can make. Yes, these poor little creatures
had tools long before man had. God cares for the insects, boys, as well
as for us."

"But, Uncle Philip, what sort of tools do you mean? Tell us about them."

"Very well, I will; do you think of some kind of tools that men use:
think of the carpenter and his tools, and let us see if we cannot find
some of them among the insects."

"Why, the carpenter has a saw. Is there any saw among these little
fellows?"

"Yes indeed, there is; and a capital saw it is. Now listen, and I will
tell you all about it. There is a kind of fly called the _saw-fly_; it
has four wings, and commonly its body is yellow, and its head is black;
but the most curious part of it is the saw. The young ones feed upon the
leaves of rose-bushes, and gooseberries, and raspberries, and currants,
and several other kinds of bushes; and the old ones always lay their
eggs on the branches of these bushes, so that the young ones may have
something to eat as soon as they come out. It uses its saw to make a
place in the branch to put its egg in."

"Uncle Philip, what is the saw made of?"

"It is made of something like horn, and is fixed very nicely in a case;
it resembles what the cabinet-makers call a _tenon-saw_ more than it
does the carpenter's common saw. The tenon-saw is made of a thin plate
of steel, and has a stiff brass back, to keep it from bending. The brass
back has a groove in it, and the saw is put in that groove, and then it
is fastened to it. But the fly's saw is fixed in another way: there is
a back to it too, but that back is not fastened to the saw. The groove
is in the saw, and there is a ridge all along the back-piece, which
just fits in the groove, and so the saw slides backwards and forwards,
and the ridge always keeps it in its place. Besides all this, boys, the
fly is better off than the cabinet-maker, for he uses only one saw at
a time; but our little workman has two exactly alike, and they are so
fixed that the creature first pushes out one, and when it is drawing
that back, pushes out the other; so that it is all the time cutting, and
does double work. I think the fly's saw is the best, too, for another
reason. The saws of the carpenter and cabinet-maker have their teeth
bent; first, one a little on one side, and then the next to it a little
on the other side, and so on to the end of the saw; so that when sawing,
the cut may be wide enough for the blade to move easily. Now the fly's
saw has the teeth a little bent, or twisted, too; but it has something
else: on the outside of every tooth there are a great many very small
teeth, so that the outside of every one is just like a _rasp_, or
_file_."

"But, Uncle Philip, it must take them a great while to saw a very little
cut; they are so small."

"Yes, it does; but they persevere. It takes them more than an hour and a
half to make one groove, and sometimes they will go on and make as many
as six without stopping. That shows, boys, what perseverance will do."

"And when it is done sawing, Uncle Philip, where does it keep its saws?"

"Oh, I told you they fitted in a case; but when the fly is done sawing,
it uses the saws to put the egg in the place cut for it, and then it
draws the saws almost entirely into the case, and drops upon the egg a
sort of frothy stuff like a drop of soap-lather."

"What is that for?"

"I suppose it is to glue the egg fast, or else to keep the juices in the
bush from hurting it."

"Well, this is a curious fly, Uncle Philip."

"It is strange, boys, because you never heard of it before; but it is a
cunning fly, as well as a curious one."

"What does it do, Uncle Philip?"

"Why, when it is frightened, it will fold up its case and saws under its
body, and draw up its legs, and pretend to be dead; and then it will not
move, even if you stick a pin through it."

"Can you tell us any thing more about this fly?"

"Nothing very strange, boys; but we have found out _two_ tools, I think,
a saw and a rasp, and that is enough for one poor little fly to give us.
Here, boys, are pictures of these saws; I have made them a great deal
larger than they are in the fly, so that you can see them plainly."






     _Uncle Philip tells the Children about Grasshoppers and Bees,
     that bore Holes with a Gimlet._


"Well, Uncle Philip, here we are again, to hear more about the tools
that animals work with; we have seen in the bark of trees, and old
wooden posts, little holes as round as a gimlet could make, and we
have been thinking whether any of these little creatures have augers
and gimlets, as well as saws. Do you know of any of them that can bore
holes?"

"Oh yes, boys; I know of more than one that can bore as smooth and round
a hole as any carpenter you ever saw. There are some of the grasshoppers
that have an excellent gimlet. The contrivance has five pieces in it;
two of the pieces make a case to keep the augers in, two more are the
augers or borers, and the other is a piece between the two borers on
which they slide; this piece has a ridge on each side of it, and the
augers have a groove which exactly fits the ridge. Besides this, each
auger ends in a knob, and that knob has teeth all around it. Here is a
picture of it."



"But, Uncle Philip, what is the piece with the ridge for?"

"Ah, boys, that piece shows the wisdom and the goodness of God. '_His
tender mercies are over all his works_:' he has placed that piece there
to keep the borers stiff, so that they cannot get out of joint, or be
broken, when the little workman is boring."

"Well, this is very curious."

"Yes; but there are some of these insect workmen more curious still.
Did you ever see a spy-glass? You know it is a round, hollow piece of
wood, with brass tubes in it, which are made smaller and smaller, so
as to slide into one another, when the glass is not used. Now there
is a sort of gadfly (she is a little creature, too) which has exactly
such a contrivance to keep her gimlet in. It is in four pieces, and the
smallest piece ends in five sharp points, three of which are longer than
the other two: she twists these five sharp points into one piece, and
as some are longer and some shorter, when they are all put together,
they make a sharp edge running all around, and are almost exactly like
an auger or gimlet. When she wants to use it, she just shoots out the
different tubes, so as to make a stem for the gimlet; and when she is
done, she puts all back into its case again.

"Here is a drawing of it, and I think that by looking at it you will
understand what I have been telling you: I do not know whether men
learned from this part of the fly how to make the case of a spy-glass;
but I know they might have learned.


"There is also a bee, boys, which is called the _carpenter-bee_, because
it is such an excellent wood-borer. It commonly looks for some old post,
or dry plank, or withered part of a tree, to work in. It never works in
wood that is green and has the sap or juices in it; for the bee knows,
just as well as any carpenter does, that it is very hard to get tools
through such wood. I expect that you have seen sometimes, when an old
post or dry board was split, a long hollow groove in the middle of it,
with little round thin pieces of something like paper, about as thick as
a wafer, fastened in it by their edges, one above the other, all the way
through. These show the work of the carpenter-bee: she bored the hole,
and she put those little partitions like paper in it, to separate the
cells; and more than that, she made the partitions out of the dust she
got by boring. She always likes, too, to get a piece of wood in a place
where the sun can shine on it; and when she has made her choice, she
begins to bore at first into the post in a slanting direction, and as
soon as she has gone far enough in, she then turns and bores straight,
with the grain of the wood."

"Does she do it quickly, Uncle Philip?"

"Not very quickly, for sometimes the wood is very hard; I have seen
one of these holes nearly twelve inches long in a very hard oak board.
Sometimes she has to work at it for months; but she works steadily,
boys, and that does a great deal. What makes it more tiresome is, that
the poor little creature has to bring out all the dust she makes by
boring."

"How large is the hole?"

"Oh, large enough to put my forefinger in, and sometimes fifteen inches
long. After she has bored it as deep as is necessary, she begins to
divide it into separate cells. So she commences at the bottom, and puts
in a quantity of what is called bee-bread, until it reaches about an
inch in height; on the top of this she lays an egg, and the bread is put
there to feed the young one as soon as it comes out of the egg. She then
makes a floor over it out of the dust, as I told you; she knows how to
glue this dust together, and she brings it grain by grain from the heap
in which she put it when she first brought it out: and she always begins
by gluing the dust around the outside of the hole she has bored, and
then glues another ring to that, and then another, and another, making
each ring smaller and smaller, until she has it all filled; so that her
floor, when it is done, appears like a parcel of rings of smaller and
smaller sizes placed within each other. On the top of this floor she
puts bee-bread, as before, and places another egg on it, and then covers
it with a floor again; and so she goes on making cells and filling them
with bread, and covering each with a floor, until she has filled up the
hole."

"Uncle Philip, how do the young bees get out when the egg is hatched? It
seems as if they were shut up for ever in prison."

"No, boys; there is a way for them to get out, and it shows the
wonderful wisdom of God in teaching this poor bee how to contrive the
matter. The egg which is put in the lowest cell being the oldest, the
little worm that is afterward to be a bee will come out of that one
first: now, you know, he never could get through all the cells over his
head, filled as they are with bee-bread, so as to come out at the top
of the hole. If he gets out at all, then, it must be at the bottom. The
old bee knows this, and she so arranges these eggs that when the worm
comes out it will be with his head pointed downwards; he falls to eating
his bread, and so eats himself down to the bottom of his cell, and there
he finds that his mother has bored a hole from his cell to the outside,
and through that he comes out. When his brother in the cell above him
has eaten his way down to the bottom of his cell, he just eats through
the floor and gets into the cell below, which is then empty, you know,
and walks out at the same hole which his older brother used before him.
And so all the rest one after another eat their way downwards into the
empty cells below them, and get out at the same back-door, which their
mother made by what we call her _instinct_, which just means the share
of wisdom which God gives to the lower animals to show them how to take
care of themselves."



"Why, that instinct, as you call it, Uncle Philip, is a curious thing."

"Very curious, very curious indeed, boys; and at some other time, if
you wish, we will talk more about it, and I will tell you a great many
stories of animals, which will show you their instinct. But for this
time I have told you enough to keep you thinking until we meet again. So
now just look at this picture of the carpenter-bee's house, and then you
may go home."






     _Uncle Philip tells the Children about Animals that are
     Tailors._


"Uncle Philip, we are very glad to see you, and we think we have found
out something to ask you, about a kind of work which men do, that no
other animal can accomplish. As we came along this morning to visit
you, and were talking of what you had told us of insects that, like
carpenters, could saw wood and bore holes in it, we passed by the
tailor's shop, near the church; 'and now,' said we, 'we have found out
something which will puzzle good Uncle Philip: there are surely no
tailors among the lower animals; so we will ask him to-day to talk about
creatures that can cut out cloth and sew it up with a needle.'"

"Ah, my dear children, there are a great many things which would puzzle
Uncle Philip. I do not know every thing; nor do I suppose that I can
find _every_ trade in the world among the dumb creatures which God has
made. But you have made a bad choice of a puzzle this morning, my boys;
for there are tailors among the inferior creatures, and some pretty nice
ones, too; at any rate, they always cut so as to fit exactly."

"Why, Uncle Philip! You do not mean to say that they can cut out
_cloth_, and then sew it up again with a needle and thread!"

"No, boys; I do not think it is to be expected that they should take
a pair of shears and cut a piece of cloth, or put a piece of thread
through the eye of a steel needle; any more than we expect the insect
that saws, to go to the cabinet-maker, and borrow his tool to work
with. But with the instruments which God has given to them, they will
cut what is cloth to them, the leaves of trees and flowers, and will sew
them together too: and, now I think of it, there is one that will cut
his garments out of our cloth."

"Pray let us hear about them, Uncle Philip."

"Softly, boys, softly. I have two things to say to you before I begin.
In the first place, I am very glad to hear that you think and talk among
yourselves about the things which I tell you: and in the next place, I
know that you love _me_, and, therefore would not wish, by _puzzling_
me, as you call it, to produce mortification or vexation; nor do I
think that I should have felt either vexed or mortified had I not been
able to find tailors among the lower animals; but I do not wish you to
take pleasure in puzzling people; for it is very apt to produce in you
a feeling of triumph, and to make you vain: and you must remember that
for _one_ of your questions which cannot be answered, a _thousand_ might
be put to you, of the answer to which you would be ignorant. No man, my
dear boys, knows every thing. Wise men talk with each other, that they
may learn from each other; and the wisest are not ashamed to acknowledge
their ignorance of some things; and I believe they take very little
pleasure in puzzling. It is our duty to learn all that we can, and to be
always willing at a proper time to teach others what we know."

"Thank you, dear Uncle Philip, for your advice. We did not mean to
triumph over _you_, if you had not been able to tell us of tailors among
the animals. But we see that you are right. We might get a foolish
habit, which would do us harm."

"Exactly what I meant, boys; and now let us begin. And first we will
talk of the cutting out, as the tailor always does that before he sews.
There is a kind of bee[1] which, like some of the insects we have
already spoken of, is furnished with a borer. With this she forms a
round hole, like that made with an auger or gimlet, in a hard-trodden
path, or sometimes in a piece of soft decayed wood. It is in making her
nest in this hole that she plays the part of a tailor, for the nest is
made of leaves, sometimes taken from the rose, at others from the birch,
ash, or other trees. The little creature cuts them commonly, and I
believe always, into two shapes. They are either half-oval, that is,
half the shape of the bowl of a spoon, or round, and are of different
sizes. Sometimes she makes a mistake in the size, and when she finds it
out, she alters it. These leaves are prepared to line the hole which
she has bored, and she begins with the largest pieces; taking them into
the hole, she winds around in it, until she has spread very smoothly a
tube of leaves the whole length of it; she then closes up one end of it
by rounding it off and doubling the pieces of leaf one over another.
In this case she sets about making her _cells_. She takes three of her
half-oval pieces which have been cut to fit, and contrives to roll them,
so that the edge of one piece will just lap over the edge of the next;
these, when she has finished rolling them, make the hollow of the cell,
which is not quite an inch high. She next turns up the ends of these
pieces, which are cut to fit, so as to form the bottom: she then sets to
work with three other pieces rolled in the same way inside of the cell
just finished, turning up their ends as before to form the bottom; and
within these she again works three others, so that her cell, when it is
done, is of nine thicknesses of leaves. And you see why, though she cuts
the pieces of the same shape, they are not all of one size: they are
of three sizes, so as to make the cells within each other smaller and
smaller."

"But, Uncle Philip, you have not said any thing about the round pieces
which she cuts; how does she use them?"

"I will tell you: after she has finished one cell she lays an egg in it,
and fills it all round with food nearly liquid; now as the cell is lying
down on its side, all this liquid food would run out if it were not
corked up, and the bee therefore uses her circular pieces to stop up the
cells."

"And does she really make these round pieces to fit the cell?"

"Yes, boys, exactly; and they are cut too as regularly as if they had
been first measured and marked with a pair of compasses. And, more than
this, the little creature will fit one in in less than a minute. But the
most curious thing is, that sometimes she will fly off to a distance
to get this round piece, and bring back one which will exactly suit;
so that it really seems as if she carried the size in her head. After
finishing one cell she will make another, until she has completed as
many as she wants; and then, as she always builds them one upon another,
they appear like a parcel of thimbles stuck into each other and put into
a case: and here is a picture of it."



"This is very wonderful, Uncle Philip; and it does seem like cutting out
pieces to fit."

"Very true: but this is not the only cutter-out of leaves among the
bees. There is another kind, called the poppy-bee,[2] because it uses
the scarlet leaves of the poppy-flower to line its cell. It makes its
hole in the ground, as smooth and regular and polished as can be, and
then proceeds to line it all around with pieces of the leaves, and cuts
them to fit as she goes on. If a piece is too large she will trim it
down to the proper size and shape, and always carries away the scraps.
Now if you should take a pair of scissors and try to cut the leaf of a
poppy-flower, you would wrinkle it, but this little workman will spread
out what she cuts as smooth as glass. When she has lined this hole
throughout, and carried the lining out beyond the entrance, she fills it
with honey and _pollen_, or bee-bread, as it is called, about half an
inch high, lays an egg, then folds down the leaves on it, and finally
fills the upper part with earth."

"Then she was not working for herself?"

"No; she was providing a house for her young, and God has taught her
thus to take care of it.

"I will now tell you of another little workman, which I have heard
called the cloak-maker, because it makes for itself a mantle which
really appears very much like a cloak; and, stranger still, this cloak
is lined throughout with silk."

"Can it be possible, Uncle Philip?"

"Listen, and you shall hear. These mantle-looking cases are made by
the _larva_, as it is called, or grub of a little moth which forms a
covering of pure silk; this silk it spins from itself; it is not woven
so as to appear like our silk, but still it is real silk, and is worked
into a great many thin scales, which lap over one another like the
scales of a fish. But this is only the lining of the cloak. This little
tailor is the field-moth, which first eats what it wants from a green
leaf, and then, from the thin membranes left, sets about making its
mantle: and it makes it of two pieces cut out and joined together with a
seam, just as a tailor would make it."

"How does it go to work, Uncle Philip?"

"Why, I will give you the account as it was given by a gentleman[3] who
was very fond of observing insects, and who watched one of these little
creatures. He says that from the thin membrane of the leaf it first
cut two pieces just equal in size and of exactly the same shape; each
of these pieces was to form one-half of the cloak, and this he says was
done wonderfully fast. He noticed, too, that one end of each piece, that
which was meant for the bottom of the cloak, was just twice as long as
the other end, which was the top. The insect then placed itself between
the two pieces while they were lying flat; it afterward brought the two
sides where the seam was to be, together, and fastened them at certain
places, still leaving, however, considerable spaces open. It then began
to turn and twist its body about in all directions, until it moulded
the pieces into a hollow form to fit. When it found that it would fit
its body, it brought the edges of the seam close together through the
whole length, and contrived to sew or fasten them so neatly together,
that when the gentleman looked, even with a magnifying-glass, he said he
could hardly find the seam. The whole was lined with the silk spun from
itself, and was finished in about twelve hours."

"Why, this little workman is the strangest of all: but, Uncle Philip,
you said there was one of these animal tailors that cut his garment out
of _cloth_: pray tell us of him."

"When I said that, boys, I was thinking of the clothes-moth.[4] They
make their coats of wool commonly taken from our cloth, and silk drawn
from their own mouths; and the strangest thing concerning them is,
that when they outgrow their clothes they will piece them to make them
larger. Suppose the insect wants it longer, it adds a new ring of wool
to the end: suppose it wants it wider, it slits the case or garment, not
from one end to the other, for this would leave it naked, but it splits
it half-way down the sides, and when it has filled it in with proper
pieces, it splits the remaining half, and puts other pieces in them.
There is another curious thing about this tailor: it always makes its
coat of the same colour with the cloth from which it takes the wool; so
that if it has first made its garment of a piece of blue cloth, and is
placed on a bit of red cloth when it wishes to enlarge it, you will see
its work exactly, for the pieces which it puts in will be red. This is
the little fellow, boys, which does so much mischief to our clothes."

"Well, Uncle Philip, one can almost forgive his mischief for the sake
of his ingenuity. But you have said nothing yet about _needles_; how do
these little creatures sew?"

"Why, they have what serves as a needle to them: but I can tell you of
another animal which sews with a needle a great deal plainer to be seen
than that of these little insects."

"Pray let us hear of him, Uncle Philip."

"I must go among the birds to find this workman. There is a kind of
starling, called the orchard starling,[5] about which, Mr. Wilson, a
gentleman who has written a great deal concerning the birds of our
country, gives a very curious account. He says that this bird commonly
hangs its nest from the twigs of an apple-tree, and makes it in a very
singular manner. The outside is made of a particular kind of long
tough grass, that will bend without breaking, and this grass is knit
or sewed through and through in a thousand directions, just as if done
with a needle. The little creature does it with its feet and bill. Mr.
Wilson says that he one day showed one of these nests to an old lady,
and she was so much struck with the work that she asked him, half in
earnest, if he did not think that these birds could be taught to _darn
stockings_? Mr. Wilson took the pains too to draw out one of these
grass threads, and found that it measured thirteen inches, and in that
distance the bird who used it had passed it in and out thirty-four
times."

"Why, this was sewing, sure enough."

"Yes; and I saw, when I was in the West Indies, another kind of
starling[6] which will cut leaves into a shape like the quarter of
an orange-rind, and sew the whole very neatly to the under side of a
banana-leaf, so as to make one side of the nest. But, boys, there is
another most beautiful little bird, which is called the tailor-bird,
because it sews so well.[7] It first picks out a plant with large
leaves, then it gathers cotton from the shrub, and with the help of
its fine long bill and slender little feet it spins this cotton into a
thread, and then using its bill for a needle, it will sew these large
leaves together to hide its nest, and sew them very neatly, too."

"Why, dear Uncle Philip, this is the most wonderful tailor of them all."

"He is, indeed: but, my children, what do we learn from all that I have
been telling you? Who made these little creatures with such curious
skill, and taught them to work so well? It was the same God who made us;
for such wonderful things never came from what people call _chance_.
Chance, boys, never made any thing: and how very wise he must be to
form such nice little workmen; and how very good thus to teach them how
to take care of themselves. The Bible says, truly, that '_his tender
mercies are over all his works_.' And I think, boys, we may learn
another thing: it is, not to be so very proud of what we know; for I
rather suppose that we shall often find that the lower creatures around
us understood many of our trades long before we found them out."

"Yes, Uncle Philip, it is likely that these little fellows you have been
telling us of this morning were the first tailors in the world."

"Very likely, very likely indeed, boys. But now I must bid you good
morning; for here comes our good clergyman, and I am going with him to
see a poor sick woman."

"Good morning, Uncle Philip; we will come again on Saturday."


FOOTNOTES:

[1] Megachile centuncularis.

[2] Osmia papaveris.

[3] Reaumur.

[4] Tinea sarcitella.

[5] Icterus mutatus.

[6] Icterus bonana.

[7] Sylvia sutoria.





     _Uncle Philip tells the Children about the first Paper in the
     World, made by Wasps._


"Ah, boys! how do you do? This is Saturday, and I have been expecting to
see you come for some time."

"Why, Uncle Philip, we should have been here sooner, but we went round
by the old mill; because we thought that perhaps we might find in some
of the old timbers, holes bored by some of those industrious little
carpenters you told us about."

"Well; and did you find any?"

"No; but we found something else, which we have brought to show you: and
we have been talking about it all the way. We have not discovered any
new _tools_ among the animals, but we think we have found out a _trade_
that some of them work at; and we wish you to tell us if we are right."

"Oh, that I will do, with pleasure, if I can. What is the trade that
you think you have discovered?"

"It is paper-making, Uncle Philip. We have found this part of a wasp's
nest, which we have brought along; and as you told us it was always best
to notice every thing closely, we examined this, and it appeared so much
like coarse paper that we thought (for we knew it was made by wasps)
that man did not make the first paper in the world."

"Well, boys, that was not a bad thought. Now you see the advantage of
taking notice of things, and of thinking about what you see. You are
perfectly right in supposing that wasps make paper; and, if you please,
we will talk this morning about the wasps."

"Oh yes, yes, by all means, Uncle Philip; and we will thank you, too."

"I must first tell you, then, that of the wasps there are several kinds.
Some build their nests under ground, and some hang theirs in the air to
the limb of a tree. This part of a nest which you have found belonged to
the last kind; but I will tell you something about both. But before I
begin let me get some drawings I have, which will help us to understand
better. I have them. And now, of the wasps which build under ground.
As soon as the warm season begins, the first care of the mother-wasp
is to look for a fit place in which to build; and in the spring of the
year she may very often be seen flying about a hole in the bank of a
ditch, and looking into it. These holes which she examines are the old
houses of field-mice or moles, and some persons have thought, what I
expect is true, that she likes to take such old holes, because they save
her a great deal of hard work. But still, as the holes are not large
enough for her use, she has a great deal of labour to make them do. So
she goes at once to work, digging in the hole she has chosen, and makes
a winding, zigzag gallery, about two feet long, and about an inch in
width. She digs out the earth, and carries it out, or pushes it out
behind her as she goes on. This gallery ends in a large chamber or hole
from one to two feet across when it is done: and now she is ready to
begin her nest."

"Now then, Uncle Philip, she will begin to make paper, will she not?"

"Yes; but here I ought to tell you that it was a long time before men
found out what she made it of. Do you remember my telling you of a
gentleman who watched the little cloak-maker to see how he made his
garment? Well, this gentleman, whose name was Reaumur, was trying for
twenty years, he says, to find out how the wasp made paper, before he
succeeded. At last, one day, he saw a female wasp alight on the sash
of his window and begin to gnaw the wood; he watched her, and saw that
she pulled off from the wood fibre after fibre, about the tenth part of
an inch long, and not so large as a hair. She gathered these up into a
knot with her feet, and then flew to another part of the sash, and went
to work, stripping off more fibres or threads, and putting them to the
bundle she had already. At last he caught her, to examine the bundle,
and found that its colour was exactly like that of a wasp's nest; but
the little ball was dry; she had not yet wetted it to make a pulp of it
which could be spread out. He noticed another thing, that this bundle
was not at all like wood gnawed by other insects; it was not sawdust,
but threads of some little length bruised into lint. He then set to work
himself with his penknife, and very soon scraped and bruised some of the
wood of the same window-sash, so as to make a little ball exactly like
the wasp's. Mr. Reaumur thought that this was the stuff out of which the
wasp made paper, and it has since been found out that he was right. The
animal wets its little bundle of bruised wooden fibres or threads with
a kind of glue that it has, and this makes it stick together like pulp
or paste; and while it is soft, the wasp walks backwards, and spreads it
out with her feet and her tongue, until she has made it almost as thin
as the thinnest paper. With this she lines the top of the hole in which
she is going to build her nest, for she always begins at the top. But
this is so thin that it would be too weak to keep the dirt from falling
in; and therefore she goes on spreading her papers one upon the other
until she has made the wall nearly two inches thick. These pieces are
not laid exactly flat on each other like two pieces of pasteboard, but
with little open spaces between, being joined at the edges only. This
is the ceiling; and when it is finished she begins to build what may be
called the highest floor of the nest; this she makes of the same paper
in a great number of little cells all joined together at the sides; and
instead of fastening this floor to the sides of the nest, she hangs it
to the ceiling by rods made also out of this paper: these rods are small
in the middle, and grow larger towards the ends, so as to be stronger.
Here is a drawing of one.



She then makes a second floor, and hangs it under the first by rods as
before; and the whole of it, when finished, if it should be cut straight
through the middle, would appear something like the following picture of
one which I made some years ago."


"This is a very ingenious little paper-maker. Uncle Philip."

"Yes, boys, it is so. This of which I have been telling you is the
ground-wasp. The tree-wasp makes its nest of paper prepared in the same
way; and the nests are of different shapes. One makes it in a round
flattened ball, not much larger than a rose, and when cut open it shows
layer upon layer of leaves of the same thin grayish-looking paper. This
kind is not so common, however. Here is one of their nests.



"Another makes its nest of cells placed in separate floors, but without
any outer wall to keep off the rain; and the most curious thing in this
nest is, that it is not placed in a horizontal way; that is, it is not
placed with the floors level, because then the cells would catch the
rain, and the nest would be spoiled; but it is always placed slanting,
so that the rain may run off. It is always placed, too, so as to face
the north or the west, and I suppose it is because the wasp knows that
it is in more danger of rain from the south and the east. Here is a nest
of this kind."


"Ah, Uncle Philip! this must be a kind of lazy wasp. It does not choose
to take the trouble to cover up the house, and so it hangs it slanting,
to make the rain run off."

"It may be so, boys; but I think that in making this wasp lazy, you make
it a very sensible wasp; else how should it know that water would run
down a slanting surface? But I cannot believe that it is so lazy; for,
though it does not cover up the whole house in a paper shell, yet it
does what no other wasp does, it covers its nest with a complete coat of
shining, water-proof varnish, to prevent the rain from soaking into the
cells. And putting on this varnish, I can tell you, is no trifling work.
It forms a pretty large part of the labour of the whole swarm belonging
to the nest; and sometimes you may see some of them at work for hours at
a time, spreading it on with their tongues. No, my lads, he who wants an
example of laziness, will not find it among the wasps.

"But let us come back to the paper. Hornets make paper for their nests
much in the same manner as the wasps do, only it is coarser. There is,
however, one kind of wasp which makes a sort of paper more curious than
this which you have found. It is not a wasp found in this country at
all. It is the Cayenne wasp, and so smooth, strong, and white is the
outside of his nest that it appears like a card, and he is for that
reason sometimes called the card-maker wasp. He hangs his nest on the
branch of a tree, and it is so hard and polished on the outside that
the rain rolls off from it, as if it were glass. A little hole in the
lower end is left for the animal to pass in and out; and in this picture
of it, which I have, a piece is left out of the side to show how the
cells within are fixed."



"Well, then, Uncle Philip, we were right in thinking that wasps were the
first paper-makers; and very glad we are that we saw this old piece of
a wasp's nest. Who would have thought that so much could be learned by
picking up this old scrap of a wasp's work!"

"Very good sense, boys, in that thought. A wise man will learn something
from almost any thing. Use your eyes, and think of what you see. Now in
this very trade of paper-making. I think that man would have found it
out a great deal sooner if he had watched the wasps at their work. They
have been excellent workmen at this business from the beginning; and man
has gone on learning little by little of this very trade, as I will tell
you at some other time, when he might have made a long step at once,
had he but noticed wasps and hornets. We go on very slowly sometimes in
learning to make a trade as perfect as it can be: the poor animal, with
its knowledge such as God gave it, is often our superior. These dumb
creatures cannot teach us every thing; there is a point to which they
can go, and no further: but as far as they do know, their knowledge is
perfect; and I make no doubt that a great many useful things not now
known will hereafter be found out by watching dumb animals."






     _Uncle Philip tells the Children a Story about Tom Smith; and
     of Bees with Brushes and Baskets, and of a Bird with a Chisel, and
     a Gnat with a Lancet._


"Uncle Philip, as the day is fine, instead of sitting here, will you
walk with us, this morning?"

"Yes, boys; let me get my cane and hat, and we will take a ramble;
perhaps we may see something, if we will use our eyes. Where do you wish
to go?"

"Oh, we do not care much, if you are with us, which way we walk; any
course will be pleasant."

"Come on, then; we will cross the river, and go down on the other side
beyond the old mill, where you found the wasp's paper. And now, such of
you as will, may keep a look-out for curious things, while the rest of
us will talk together.--Boys, do any of you know Tom Smith?"

"Know him! Why, Uncle Philip, everybody in this part of the country
knows him; he is such a shocking drunkard, and swears so horribly, that
nobody can forget him; and what makes it worse, he is an old man, too.
His hair is almost as white as yours, Uncle Philip."

"Yes; he is just about my age. We were both born here, and I have known
him ever since we were boys; and when we played together as children,
over this very field which we are now crossing, or caught fish in
the river down yonder by the rocks, there was not a more decent,
well-behaved, handsome boy among us than was Tom Smith. Poor Tom lost
his father when he was about twelve years old, and his mother, having
no other child, indulged him, until he was sent to the city to go into
a store. But Tom then, boys, had good principles; he neither swore nor
got drunk. In a little time he fell into bad company, and they led him
astray by degrees. He was so good-natured (as they call it), boys,
that he had never the firmness to say _no_ to the proposals of his
companions. He went with them to places of amusement; and instead of
spending his evenings in his own room, reading, he was at the theatre,
or dancing in some place, or at a supper with his young companions;
and finally he began to play cards and billiards with them; while the
inside of the church was a place which he never saw. He was cheated by
his companions; and too honest he was then not to pay what he lost by
gaming: he wrote to his poor mother, and told her the truth, as to his
losses, and she sent him money to pay his debts, and told him to come
home. He did come home; and even after all that had happened, poor Tom
might have been respectable and happy; for his friends were all willing
to forget the past, and encourage him for the future. For a time he went
on pretty well, and married an affectionate and good young woman, and
his prospects were bright enough: but one thing, boys--one single thing,
ruined his comfort for ever. In the city he had learned _to drink strong
liquors_.

"I remember, too, soon after he came home and married, that a man was
hung not far from here for murdering his wife. The man was a drunkard,
though he was quite sober when he killed the poor woman; and drunkenness
had hardened his heart. I have no doubt, as it will the heart of any
man. Tom was talking to me about that man, and I remember he said then
that when a man _began_ to drink, he could never say where it would end,
nor what he would do: 'therefore,' said Tom, 'beware of the _first_
drink.' But Tom, though he talked like a Christian and a man about it,
did not act like one: for it was not long before he began to follow his
bad habit, and he soon killed his poor mother; for she died of grief
and sorrow, I think. His excellent wife speedily followed her to the
grave; and Tom Smith left the village, a perfect vagabond, whom no one
cared for. Where he went, or what he did for a long time, no person
here knows. I went to other countries, and neither heard of nor saw Tom
Smith until my return home, when I found him wandering about here, a
gray-headed swearer and drunkard. He did not know me, and I never should
have known him, had not some one told me who he was. And last night I
received a letter from one of my nephews in the city, which informed
me that Tom Smith had been tried in the court, and found guilty of
stealing, and was sent to the state prison for ten years to hard work.
There I suppose he will die for he is now old; and it is awful to think
of what is then to become of his soul. Ah, my dear boys! I could not
help thinking, when I read my letter, of what that man said to me years
ago--and I have told you his story, hoping that you will remember his
words, 'Beware of the _first_ drink.' The man who does that will never
be a drunkard. And when old Uncle Philip is laid in the grave, boys,
which must be before many years, remember, as you look upon the place,
that he told you the story of Tom Smith, and charged you to 'beware of
the _first_ drink.'

"But here come some of the boys, running towards us; I suppose they have
found something."

"Oh, Uncle Philip! Uncle Philip! Do come with the boys this way. Under
that fence yonder there are a great many beautiful wild flowers, and a
number of bees are as busy as they can be about them; pray come and see
them."

"Well, I will; but not so fast, boys; you forget that I am an old
man, and cannot run as you do.--So, here are, indeed, a great many
industrious little workmen."

"What are they doing, Uncle Philip?"

"These are _workers_ among the bees, and they are gathering the dust out
of the flowers, to work it up into what is commonly called bee-bread.
More tools here, boys!"

"Tools, Uncle Philip! Ah, we like that: pray let us hear of them; what
are they?"

"Why, there is a brush and a basket in the legs of these little fellows;
but they are so small that you cannot see them without a microscope."

"What is a microscope?"

"It is an instrument, made by fixing glasses in such a way to look
through, that small things will seem to be very large. Do you not see
how some of these little fellows are rolling themselves over in the
inside of the flowers, so that the yellow dust is sticking to them?
Now their breasts, and legs, and many other parts of their bodies are
covered with very short hairs, which catch the dust. The last joint but
one of each leg is made exactly like a brush, the hairs being longer
there than on any other part; and with these they brush off the dust,
and get it into two little heaps. The bags into which they put it, or
rather the baskets, are in the thighs of the last pair of legs. These
are hollow, so as to form a three-sided basket. The bottom of it is
smooth and shining, and appears like horn, and all around the edges are
placed very strong, thick-set hairs, like bristles."

"What are these for?"

"To keep things from falling out of the basket; and these bristles are
so strong that even if they heap up more than the basket will hold, the
bristles will keep it from falling. Here is a drawing of these legs.



Besides carrying this dust, they also carry what is called _propolis_."

"What is propolis, Uncle Philip?"

"It is a gum which is found upon some trees. This they work up into
little balls, and knead it until it is a little dry, so as not to stick.
This takes the bee sometimes as much as half an hour. When the balls
are ready, she passes them backwards with her feet to the basket, puts
them in, and gives them a pat or two to make them lie close; and when
she adds more, she pats it still harder, and when the basket is full,
away she goes to the hive. But there is another curious instrument about
the bee. I mean its sting: this is like the head of a barbed or bearded
arrow. There is a sheath for it when the bee does not wish to use it;
and here is a picture of it.



But let us now continue our walk."

"Well, Uncle Philip, it is really very pleasant to walk with you: it
seems as if you met nothing which could not teach us things worth
knowing."

"Why, my dear boys, there are, as I told you once before, a great many
things which I do not know; and what I do know I am very willing to tell
you. But you may learn just as I did,--by reading, by taking notice of
things around you, and by thinking for yourselves. And I do not know any
thing more pleasant to notice than the works of God. I see his wisdom
and his goodness in every thing which he has made. I see them in the
insects, and the birds, and the larger animals; I see them in the grass,
and the flowers, and the trees; and I see them in the rocks and the
stones upon the ground. All these things are well worth our attention,
boys; the study of all these things around us is called the study of
'Natural History;' and I think it is apt to make him who loves it a
better man; at any rate, I believe that there have been very few who
have been fond of it, who have not been amiable and benevolent men. But,
hark! Do you hear that noise?"

"Yes, Uncle Philip; it is the sound of men chopping wood in that clump
of trees."

"No, boys; it is like the sound of a wood-cutter; and it is a
wood-cutter, but he does not use one of our hatchets."

"What is it that he uses, then?"

"He uses the tool which God gave him. It is a bird, boys, which you
hear: it is the woodpecker. See, there it is on yonder tree, and look,
at the foot of it, there is something like a bushel of the bird's chips
or dust. Its bill is a complete chisel; it is straight, hard, and sharp,
with edges too upon the sides. It is not a very broad chisel, but still
it is one, and used as we use ours. But the chisel is not the only
instrument of that workman. Its tongue is worth examining. It bores a
hole into a tree that is dead or decaying, to look for insects whose
nests are in the tree; and when it reaches the cell where the young
insect is, it uses its tongue to get it out, and it suits exactly for
the business. In the first place, it is so long that the bird can shoot
it out three or four inches longer than the bill is; in the next place
the end of it is tipped with a stiff, sharp, long thorn; and in the
last place, that thorn has little teeth on both sides of it, like that
which you see on the point of a fish-hook: these teeth are to keep the
insect from falling off when it puts its tongue in the hole and sticks
its sharp point into it to draw it out for food. So that besides the
chisel, the woodpecker has a spear, or lance, or arrow, barbed (as it is
called) or bearded at the point.

"But we are some distance, boys, beyond the old mill: suppose we now
turn back towards home; I find the gnats rather troublesome."

"So do we, Uncle Philip; they have been biting us for some time: it
would be well if there were no such tormenting things in the world."

"I am not sure of that, boys. We may not always be able to find out the
exact use of some of these little animals; but that only shows that we
are ignorant, not that they are of no use. God would never have made
them if he had not some wise purpose in doing so: I do not believe he
ever wastes his power in making useless things. But what will you say
about gnats, when I tell you that they have a tool to work with, and a
very perfect one, too?"

"Why, we will almost forgive them for biting us."

"Biting you! They have not been biting with teeth: they are doctors,
boys; they have only been bleeding you, and cupping you."

"And what have they been bleeding us with?"

"Why, with a lancet, to be sure; what should a doctor use but a lancet
to let blood?"

"And has the gnat really a lancet?"

"Yes, it has: this instrument forms a part of what you may call the
tongue of the gnat: it is made up of five pieces, which are shut up in
a case, split from one end to the other; these give steadiness to the
lancet when it is used. But the reason of the pain is not so much the
wound of the lancet, as it is the fluid or poisonous juice which the
gnat puts into the wound to make the blood thin enough for the insect to
suck it up through a tube or case, which makes part of its mouth. Here
is a drawing of part of a gnat's mouth.



And here is a picture of the lancet or knife of a horse-fly.



"We have now reached the bridge,--and here we must part; your homes are
in one direction, and mine is in the opposite. I hope, however, that you
have learned something in our morning's walk."

"We have, Uncle Philip, and we thank you much, and bid you, good day."

"Good day, boys."






     _Uncle Philip tells the Children about Animals that can do
     Mason's Work._


"Uncle Philip, we saw a very strange thing just now; as we were coming,
we saw a great many bees flying by us, and each one was carrying a
little stone."

"That was strange, indeed. Did you find out any thing about them?"

"We asked a man who was near what they did it for, and he said that they
carried the stones to prevent the wind, which is blowing pretty fresh,
from tossing them about too much."

"That is a very silly story, boys, though it is a very old one: for I
have seen them carrying what you call stones when it was quite calm, and
there was no wind to blow them away. The man was very ignorant, or he
would have told you another story, which would have been both strange
and true."

"Will you have the goodness, Uncle Philip, to tell us what it meant?"

"Very willingly, boys. What you saw I presume were bees. You remember
that I told you there were several kinds of bees; and this one is called
the mason-bee. This kind builds his nest of mortar, and was therefore
called the mason-bee by Mr. Reaumur first, I believe."

"Where does it get the mortar, Uncle Philip?"

"It makes it, boys. This kind of bee may be seen flying about, picking
up sand, grain by grain, putting it into a heap, gluing them together
with a sort of gum out of her own mouth, and building with them a
foundation for her house. This little workman commonly builds against
the side of a wall between two bricks where the mortar has fallen out;
and if you should see one of the nests, it appears exactly like a lump
of dry mud which has been thrown wet upon the wall out of a cart-rut:
but when you examine it closely, you may see a great many small stones
in it, more than is common in mud: a hundred people, though, might pass
by it, and never think it was any thing more than a lump of dirt, which
had been thrown upon the wall when it was wet, and had afterward dried
there. Here is a picture of one of these nests.



You see there is a small hole in it; this leads to a cell inside about
an inch deep, and shaped exactly like a lady's thimble; the inside of
this cell is polished smooth, and appears like a wall of plaster, except
that it has little yellow stains upon it. Here is the bee that makes it.



In making this mortar to build with, the bee will sometimes add earth
that is soft to its grains of sand, and when the lump is about the size
of a small shot, it takes it up and flies away with it, to work it into
the wall."

"Does it always use sand, Uncle Philip?"

"Not always: sometimes it takes wet clay, and will dig into a bank of
clay baked hard by the sun on the outside, so as to get that which is
wet.

"Mr. Rennie, a gentleman in England who is very fond of watching
insects, and has found out a great many curious things about them, has
given an account of some of these bees which he noticed at work. Every
one was carrying out of a hole in the clay-bank a small lump of clay;
and on catching one of them, he found that this lump was wetter than
the clay in the hole, so that the bee had moistened it, and worked it
together, to make it stick like good mortar. These lumps too were larger
than a shot; they were as large as a garden-pea."

"How long did it take them to work up the lump?"

"About half a minute, Mr. Rennie says. He watched one of these little
creatures, and found that she was building on the inside wall of a
coal-house, where the bricks and mortar were left rough: she was at work
between two of the bricks where the mortar had fallen out, or where the
bee had taken it out. And the conduct of the bee at her house was very
different from what it was at the clay-bank. She was not frightened,
but went on working when any one came near the clay-bank; but at her
house she seemed afraid that it should be found out where it was. She
would alight first on the roof outside, as if she merely wished to rest
herself; and when she flew into the coal-house she would not go directly
to her nest, but would settle on a shelf, and sometimes pretend to be
examining a great many places in the wall between different bricks; and
at last, when she supposed there was no risk, or when there was nothing
to alarm her, she would fly to her nest, and go to work with all her
might in fixing her piece of clay to the wall."

"Why did she wish her house not to be found out, Uncle Philip?"

"Mr. Rennie supposed it was her instinct: she had seen probably some of
the insects which would destroy her young, watching her to see where
she was building; and sometimes after flying nearly to her nest with a
load, she would turn back and fly towards the clay-bank, or take a large
sweep off in another direction, and so come to her house.

"Besides the mason-bee, boys, there is the mason-wasp, which I have
heard some persons call the _dirt-dauber_: it is very common, especially
in the southern part of the United States. It works very much like the
mason-bee, only it is apt to fix its nest under the eaves of old houses,
which I think the mason-bee never does.

"There is also another kind of mason-wasp which will actually break a
hard brick. Mr. Rennie says that he saw one at work on a brick of a hard
yellow kind. Whether the wasp found a hole in the brick to begin with,
he did not know; but if he did he was hard at work making it larger: he
would break off a piece as large as a mustard-seed at a time. Here is
a drawing of that kind of wasp; and the insect is no larger than the
picture.



It seems wonderful that so small an insect should have so much strength.
Here is a picture of its jaws, seen through a microscope, so as to
appear a great deal larger than they really are.



"I do not know, boys, that the masons we have been talking of, show us
any _tools_ like those with which men who are masons work; but they show
us, at any rate, how to make mortar by kneading or working it together;
and they certainly show us that we were not the first who built walls.
But there is another kind of mason who works in stone. He picks out
the stones which are of proper size, and he fastens them together with
mortar really as men do."

"Pray tell us of him, Uncle Philip."

"I will. The insect I mean is the caddis-worm, which is to be found
sometimes in ponds, and very often in springs of fresh water. There
are several sorts of them, but the one I am thinking of now, builds a
stone house to live in. These worms are in the habit of making a little
tube, sometimes of sand, or shell, or wood, or leaves, or stones, to
live in; and their skill consists in joining these perfectly, and
making them stick together. But we are talking now of the caddis-worm
that uses stone. What the worm has to do is to make a tube out of small
stones, that shall have a hollow about as large as a wheat straw, and be
perfectly smooth inside. This is a pretty hard task--at least it would
be very hard to us. When the stone-mason wishes a stone of a particular
size or shape, and cannot find it, he takes his hammer and breaks one
until it will suit; but the caddis-worm has no hammer, and must take
the stones just as it finds them. The little insect then has to pick
out a great many stones before he gets the right one, because they have
so many little rough points about them that it is very difficult to
get those which will make the tube perfectly smooth inside. Remember,
too, that the bottom or lower side of this stone case has to be pretty
nearly smooth, so that the worm can drag it along on the bottom of the
spring or pond (for it never comes out of it), and you will see that the
picking out of the stones alone is no trifle. But besides this, it has
to fasten them together with mortar."

"And can the worm really do this, Uncle Philip? Will not the water wash
the mortar all away?"

"It certainly would if it were like common mortar. It was a long time
that men lived before they found out a mortar that would remain, and
grow hard under water. When they want to build a wall that is to be
under the water, they use a cement which is called pozzolana; it is
made of lava out of a volcano, and is water-proof. Our caddis-worm has
a cement too, which is better than pozzolana, and though it has been
tried, it cannot be melted or dissolved in water. Here is a drawing of
the stone nest of a caddis-worm."



"Uncle Philip, you said that sometimes these worms built their nests
of other things besides stones; let us hear something of them, if you
please."

"Very willingly, boys. Some build of shells: here are pictures of their
nests.



Some build of leaves, and others of pieces of reed or light bark.



And a curious thing about those which build of light pieces of bark
or reed is this, that they will make the top-piece come over so as to
hide their heads, and prevent you from seeing them. Some build of sand;
and then as the house would be so light that the water running from
the spring might wash it down and carry it away, the wonderful little
creature takes care to anchor it by fastening a pretty large stone to it
when it has nearly finished it. And as the worm anchors it when it is
too light, so it lightens it when it is too heavy, by fixing a bit of
light wood or hollow straw to it to buoy it up."



"Well, this is truly a wonderful insect. Uncle Philip."

"Truly so indeed, boys. In all these cases it uses its water-proof
cement, and if you break its house to pieces, and will patiently watch,
you may see it build another. The insect always lives with its head out
of doors, and its body inside; so that its head is firm and hard, while
its body is soft."

"Uncle Philip," said one of the larger boys, "there is one thing I have
been thinking about, as you have been talking: these little masons have
no trowel, but I believe I know of one animal that uses something like
that tool."

"Ah! What animal is it?"

"Why, I was reading the other day something about the beavers building
their dams and their houses, and the book said that they built their
houses of logs first, and then plastered them with mud, and that they
used their tails for trowels."

"I am very glad to find that you remember what you read; but I am sorry
that your book did not tell you the truth. There have been very strange
stories told about the beaver; and these stories have been taken from
one book and printed in another, so that an untrue account has gone down
for a great many years. The beaver is very ingenious, but is not quite
so much of a mason as you suppose."

"Well, Uncle Philip, will you tell us the truth about it?"

"Yes, boys, I will, so far as I know it myself. I have seen these
animals, for they were once a great deal more common in our country than
they are now; and many of the stories told of them are not true. But
before I begin, let me tell you of one book which I think does tell the
plain truth about them; and the truth is curious enough."

"What book is it, Uncle Philip?"

"It is a book written on American Natural History, by Doctor John
Godman. I knew him, boys, and a most excellent man he was. He is now
dead--and he died a Christian. The book he wrote you will find worth
reading, when you get old enough to understand it. But now for the
beaver.

"His tail is very broad and flat at the end, and might be used very well
for a trowel; but when he builds his house he does not cut down trees,
and place them first, and then fill up the cracks with mud-mortar; but
all the sticks and mud (and stones too when the beaver can get them),
are first mixed up together, and the beaver builds his house with this
from the very foundation. As soon as he has placed a lump of this stuff
upon the wall, he turns round and gives it a blow with his flat tail;
and that, boys, is all he does with his tail for a trowel. Sometimes
he slaps his tail upon the water when he is swimming; and some persons
have supposed that this was done by the king, or ruler, to call his
workmen. It may be so, but I do not believe it, because they almost
always dive as soon as they have slapped the water; and I think it is
probably a part of their motion in diving. In the autumn they cover the
outside of their houses with mud, and they walk over it as they are at
work, and their tails drag along upon it; and this I expect made persons
first suppose that they were plastering it, with the tail for a trowel.
When they are caught and kept, boys, they still keep up this fashion of
slapping with the tail; so that I rather think it is part of the nature
of the animal.

"At another time, perhaps, I will tell you more about the beaver; but it
is now late, and I must bid you good morning."

"Good day, Uncle Philip."




     _Uncle Philip talks to the Children about Animals that throw
     Dirt with a Spade; and about an Animal with a Hook; and about one
     that is a Wire-drawer._


"Boys, I have some men at work digging a small ditch for me, and I wish
to see them; will you go with me?"

"Oh, yes--very gladly, Uncle Philip; for you will be sure to tell us of
something curious before we come home."

"Come on, then: yonder are the men at work; they have been very
industrious, I see."

"But, Uncle Philip, look! There is one of the men putting a bottle to
his mouth. Is that right?"

"Yes, boys, right enough; for the bottle has nothing but molasses and
water in it; and the man is thirsty, I suppose. I would not employ him
if he brought a bottle of spirits out with him, for two reasons. In the
first place, I think that I ought not to encourage a man who gets drunk,
by employing him; for I would rather give my money to a sober man who
will not spend it for rum and brandy, but will take care of his family:
and, in the second place, a drunkard would not work faithfully without
being watched all the time. I never knew a drunkard who was really and
honestly an industrious man."

"See, Uncle Philip, how strong that man is; what a large spadeful of
dirt he throws out!"

"Yes, I see, boys: do you think that men had the first spades in the
world?"

"Ah! now you are going to tell us something about tools among animals:
that is good; we like to hear of that. What animal is it that has a
spade?"

"Oh, a very common animal indeed in some parts of our country. The
country people call it a _woodchuk_, and sometimes a _ground-hog_:
its right name is the marmot; and as there are several sorts, ours is
called the Maryland marmot, to distinguish it; but it is in New-York,
Connecticut, New-Jersey. Pennsylvania, Virginia, and some of the other
states, as well as in Maryland. This is rather a mischievous animal,
and does harm to the clover-fields; but it is in making his house that
he uses his spade."

"Then he digs his house in the ground. Uncle Philip?"

"Yes; he burrows, or digs his nest in banks of earth, or on the sides
of hills; and he has sense enough to make the passage to the inside
upwards, instead of downwards, so that water cannot run in. In digging
soft earth he uses his fore-paws to loosen the dirt, for his fore-legs
are very strong; and if the ground is hard he will use his teeth too.
As he gets farther in, he throws the dirt with his fore-paws under his
belly, and when he has a heap gathered, he balances himself on his
fore-feet, and begins to throw it out with his spades."

"What are his spades, Uncle Philip?"

"His hinder feet, boys, which are very broad, and just fit to take up
the dirt as a spade does, and to throw it from him: there is a skin
which grows between the toes of his hinder feet, so that he can spread
them out when he chooses, like a duck's foot."

"But, Uncle Philip, perhaps they are made so for the sake of _swimming_;
the duck's are."

"That is a sensible thought, boys. Always think for yourselves; and when
you make a mistake, try again: everybody is mistaken sometimes. Let it
teach you to be modest and humble; but do not be afraid to think again.
A person who is always thinking cannot _always_ think wrong. Now you
suppose the marmot's feet may be made like a duck's for swimming: let me
tell you something else, and we shall see what you will think then. The
marmot hates a rain as much as you would if you had no umbrella; he very
seldom even drinks water, and then only a little; and you cannot drive
him into a stream or pond; he is afraid of it. What do you think now?"

"Why, Uncle Philip, we think that he is no swimmer."

"Very true, boys: so his feet, then, you now think, were made for
spades, and not for paddles?"

"We do. Can you tell us any thing more about this animal, Uncle Philip?"

"Oh yes. The burrows or holes of the marmot run a great distance under
ground, and end in several chambers or rooms, according to the number
that is to live in them. They make beds in them of dry leaves, or
grass, or any thing soft and dry which they can find. They cram their
mouths full of it to carry, when they are making their nests. As soon as
cold weather begins, the animal goes into his house, and stops up the
hole on the inside; and there he stays till the warm weather has come
again.

"He is quite a thief at times. I saw one once which a gentleman had
tamed, and he played about the yard; but every thing that he could get
hold of which was fit to make his bed of, he was sure to steal, and
carry into his hole under ground. When clothes were hung out to dry
he would take them off the line, and as soon as any were missed the
washerwoman knew very well where they were. She kept a long stick with
a hook at the end of it, and with this she drew them out of the burrow.
He soon found out what it meant, and whenever she used the stick, it was
necessary first to tie him up; for he did not choose to have his bed
spoiled, and would run to the hole and try to get in, and prevent the
clothes from being drawn out. One day he stole eight pairs of stockings,
a towel, and a little girl's frock; and he carried them into his burrow
as far as six feet from the entrance.

"But, boys, as we have begun this morning upon the old subject of tools
among animals. I will tell you of something which, though not exactly
a tool, is a very useful instrument, and is found belonging to a very
common creature. Did you ever take notice of a bat?"

"Oh yes, Uncle Philip, often, as they were flying about in a room at
night, but not nearer."

"Then you never saw what I mean, I expect. Our common bat, boys, has
two very excellent hooks; one on each of what you call its wings: I
say what you call its wings, because the bat is not really a bird, but
a quadruped; that is, an animal with four feet: and when it is on the
ground, any one may see that it is a four-footed animal. If a monkey's
paw should be flattened out very much, it would be something like a
bat's paw or hand. The long finger-bones are just like the sticks of an
umbrella; there is a thin skin between them, and they stretch it out, so
that the air underneath will keep them up. When they are on the ground
all this is folded up. Their hinder feet have five toes, all small, and
ending in sharp claws. On the fore-feet there is but one finger which
the bat can use much, because the others are like umbrella-sticks, as I
told you; and the end of that one is a hook. Here is a picture, in which
you can see it plainly.



When the bat is on the ground, it is hard work for it to get along. At
first it will reach forward a little to one side the hooked end of its
fore-leg, and stick it in the ground; then it draws its hind-legs under
its belly, and raising itself up, just tumbles forward its whole body.
At the next step it stretches out the other fore-leg, and hooks it, as
it did before, and drawing itself up, tumbles forward again. The bat
does not like a level place, because it cannot raise itself in the air
from it. When they rest, they hang by the hooks; and here is a drawing
of one, resting. In the other picture which I showed you just now the
bat was flying."



"Uncle Philip, we did not know before that bats were such curious
things; we always thought that they were birds; but if these pictures
are like them, these hooks are as good as fish-hooks."

"The pictures, boys, are very much like the animal, and the hooks are
just as plain as they seem to be in the drawings. But how often do you
suppose that you have seen a bat?"

"Oh, many hundreds of times; for they are very common."

"True, boys; and yet you never knew before that they had hooks about
them. Suppose that everybody had done as you have, just passed by the
bats, without taking notice of them; I could not have told you then
what strange creatures they are, for no person would have known any
thing about them. You see, then, that men may have eyes, and yet not see
things; because they will not look for them. Use your eyes, boys; God
made them to be used."

"But, Uncle Philip, bats are such ugly things! and they can bite, too.
We are afraid of them."

"Ugly, boys! And what of that? Will you look at nothing but what is
handsome? If the bat could think and speak, I expect he would call
you very ugly. But it is foolish, boys, to be afraid of these smaller
animals. There are many creatures which might hurt you, and I would
advise you to keep out of their way: but it is silly to be afraid of
every poor little insect or animal which you see. I have seen a large
boy cry when he saw a poor little caterpillar or bug near him. Now
there are very few insects, indeed, which can or will hurt you; and a
great many of them you may watch without touching them at all. And I
think that he is a wicked and cruel boy who kills every poor bug that he
sees, merely because he is stronger than the bug. It would be a great
deal kinder and wiser in the boy to notice what the bug was doing, for
then he might learn something worth knowing."

"But, Uncle Philip, is it wrong to kill _spiders_?"

"Spiders! Why, boys, the spider is one of the very last of these little
creatures that I should wish to kill. There is not a more curious little
animal in the world, nor one that will pay a man better for watching its
motions. At some other time I will tell you all about spiders and ants,
for I have noticed them a great deal: but now, just to show you how much
you would lose if you should kill all the spiders, I will talk with you
about a tool which man uses, and which he might have learned to make
from a spider."

"Oh, do tell us; what is it?"

"The next time you go to Mr. Brown's, the silversmith, ask him to show
you his plate for drawing out wire. Tell him that I told you to ask
him, and he will show it to you. You will see a flat piece of steel with
holes made through it in regular lines, beginning with a large size, and
growing smaller and smaller until the last is very small indeed.

"Now the wire is drawn through these holes; beginning at the larger
ones, and passing every time through the next smaller one, it stretches
the wire out, until it becomes as small as the workman wishes it to be.

"The spider is a wire-drawer, too; for it has a contrivance to draw
out its threads, and make them smaller or larger, as it pleases. If
you will look at a very large spider, you can see with your naked eye,
just at the end of its body, four, and sometimes six, little knobs like
teats, with a circle around them. These are its spinners. Each one of
these small knobs, inside of that circle, is so full of little holes or
tubes, that Mr. Reaumur (of whom I told you before, you will recollect)
calculated that a place no larger than the point of a pin had a thousand
of these little holes in it. These holes are sometimes so very small,
that another gentleman,[8] who looked at spiders through a microscope
very often, thought it would take four millions of the threads which
came through those holes to make one thread as thick as a hair of his
beard. Here is a picture of a spider hanging by a thread coming out of
its spinner, or, as it is sometimes called, its spinneret."



"Then, Uncle Philip, the spider does not spin its thread all at once?"

"No, boys. Fine as you see that thread to be, it is not one single line,
but it is made of many thousands joined together. The spiders have
little bags of gum within their bodies, near their spinners, and out of
these they draw the threads: when they have come out about the tenth
part of an inch, they join them all into one with their claws; and they
can shut their spinners when they please, so as to make the threads
longer or shorter; and they can break them off, too, when they wish."

"But, Uncle Philip, we do not see why there should be so many threads to
make up one."

"I cannot exactly tell you, boys, why there are so many; but probably
to make the thread dry quicker, by letting the air touch so many parts
of it: and I expect, too, the thread is stronger, because we know that
in two pieces of cord of one size, if one is made of several smaller
cords put together, it will be stronger than the other, which was spun
all at once. The following is a picture of the spider's spinnerets, and
some of the threads as it appears through the microscope; only you must
recollect that _all_ the threads are not drawn: there are a great many
more than you see in the picture."




FOOTNOTE:

[8] Leuwenhoek.






     _Uncle Philip tells the Children of a Door, with a Hinge and
     Spring to it, made by a Spider; and shows them Pictures to let them
     see the Difference between God's Work and Man's._


"I was thinking, boys, last night, of what you said about killing the
poor spiders; and I was sorry that I did not then recollect one thing
about a spider which I could have told you, and which would have made
you like the poor little creatures better. However, I determined that
when you came to see me again, it should be the first thing I would tell
you, if you wished to hear it."

"Wish to hear it! Why, Uncle Philip, we always wish to hear you tell us
of any thing that you please to talk about. You have told us of a great
many strange things, about which we knew nothing before; and we will
thank you to tell us the story about the spider."

"Very well, boys; you shall hear it. Pray, do you not think that it is
a piece of difficult work to make a door to a house, and to make hinges
to hang it with, and to fit it so nicely that when it is done you cannot
see the joints where the door is shut?"

"Indeed it is a piece of very hard work. Uncle Philip, and it takes
the carpenter a long time to do it; and it is hard work, too, for the
blacksmith to make the hinges. But what has that to do with the story
about the spider?"

"Patience, boys, patience: you shall know presently. Never be in too
great a hurry: it is a bad plan. I have always noticed that those
persons who hurried most, went slowest in the end. Another question I
wish to ask you is this,--do you not think it was hard work for the
first man who ever made a spring, and put it on a door, to make it shut
itself again when it had been opened?"

"Yes, it was so: and the man who does it now gets well paid for it."

"Very good, boys. And now what will you say when I tell you that a poor
little spider did all these things long before man did?"

"What, Uncle Philip! A spider make a door with a hinge and a spring to
make it shut itself!"

"Yes, boys; a spider. Do you think he deserves to be killed for doing
it?"

"Oh no, no! But pray tell us all about it. Uncle Philip."

"This kind of spider, then, boys, I saw in Jamaica, and I saw its house,
too. It is called the mason-spider. The nest or house which I saw was a
tube made of very hard clay, about six inches long, and an inch across,
and was a little bent at one end. The inside of this tube was lined
all the way through with a kind of soft silky stuff, something like
silk-paper, but stronger, and it was of a yellowish colour; but the
curious part was the door. I never saw any thing which an insect had
made more strange than that. This door was round, about as large as a
quarter of a dollar, and was a little hollowed on the upper side like
a saucer; the inside of it was rounded like the outside of the saucer.
It was of the same stuff with the lining of the nest, and seemed to be
made of more than a dozen pieces of that lining, put one on the top of
another: it was shaped so, too, that the inside layers or pieces were
the broadest, and the outside ones became smaller and smaller, except
at the hinge, which was about an inch long. All the pieces in the door
were joined into this hinge, and then the hinge was joined and worked
into the lining in the tube. That made the hinge the thickest and
strongest part of the whole work. How the spider made it so, boys, I
cannot tell; but so it was, that this hinge not only was a hinge, but
was so good a spring, that whenever the door was opened it would shut
itself immediately: and when shut, it fitted so nicely that it was very
difficult to see the place of joining."

"Well, Uncle Philip, this is most wonderful! But will not the hinge wear
out at last?"

"Wonderful as it is, boys, it is all true. As to its wearing out, I
cannot tell you; but I know that a gentleman who had one, said that his
friends were very anxious to see it; and there were so many of them,
that he had to open the door and let it shut itself many hundreds of
times to satisfy them; and it did not hurt the spring at all."

"Uncle Philip, we shall not kill the poor spiders any more."

"A good resolution, boys: only let them alone, and they will not hurt
you. There is another kind of mason-spider, which I never saw, but I
have read of it. It is found in the south of France; I did not happen,
however, to meet with one while I was in that beautiful country. This
kind digs a gallery or hole under ground as much as a foot deep. She
lines it with a sort of silk glued to the walls, and makes her door,
which is round also, with many layers of mud or earth all kneaded and
bound together with some of her silk. On the outside, the door is flat
and rough, to make it appear like the dirt around it, and hide it; on
the inside it is shaped like the inside of the door of the other spider
I have told you about; and all covered with a coat of fine silk. The
threads of this silk are left long on one side, and fastened to the
upper part of the hole; and these make the hinge. There is no spring to
this; but when the spider pushes its door open and comes out, it shuts
again by its own weight. If this door is forced open by any one when
the spider is at home, she will catch hold of it and pull it in; and
sometimes even when it is half-opened; she will snatch it out of the
hand. Here is a picture which shows the nest open, and another of it
shut; and there is a drawing of the spider, too.



A gentleman says, in a book which he wrote about insects, that he once
broke one of these doors off, to see what the spider would do."

"And what did she do, Uncle Philip?"

"She made another door; but took very good care not to put any hinge
to it, for fear she should be disturbed again. But when she thought
all danger was gone, she could then put a hinge to it, you know; and
probably she did."

"Well, Uncle Philip, we thank you again for this account of the spiders,
and shall always look at them hereafter with more pleasure. Who would
have thought that we should ever find doors and hinges among such little
creatures, and these too so very well made and fitted!"

"Why, boys, I have noticed the works of God very often; and I will now
tell you one thing which I always found. It is this: a piece of the very
best work which man can make is really coarse when you compare it with
the work of God. The poor spider that we have talked about, when she
makes her door, makes it to fit perfectly; because in doing that one
thing, God made her to know perfectly how to do it. The knowledge is
God's, boys; but the work is the spider's: but in making any thing else,
except about her house, the spider knows nothing."

"Uncle Philip, you told us once that you were very fond of watching all
sorts of dumb animals, and we think now that we know the reason."

"Well, what is it?"

"It is because you see so much of God's knowledge in them; is it not?"

"Yes, my dear boys, it is. When I look at many things which man makes
or does, I think to myself, 'Now this thing is likely to have a mixture
of sense and nonsense in it; the sense is God's, and the nonsense is
man's.' But when I look at a thing made by one of the dumb creatures for
its own comfort and safety, like the spider's house, with its door and
hinge, for instance, I say to myself, 'Now here is the wisdom of God,
without any of man's nonsense.' And yet, boys, men are far wiser than
any other animal in this world."

"But, Uncle Philip, you said that a piece of man's best work was really
coarse: some things must be neat, we should think. Is the point of a
needle coarse? It does not seem so."

"Boys, you have mentioned the very thing which was in my mind when I
spoke. The point of the smallest needle is very coarse. You have heard
me talk of the microscope. I told you it was a set of glasses, so
fixed that when you looked through them, it made small things appear
very large: on some other day, perhaps, I will let you look through
my microscope for yourselves; but now, I just wish to show you the
difference between the work of God and that of man. Let us go home,
and I will show you some pictures I made, and you can see in them the
difference. Last winter, you know, was very cold, and there was a great
deal of snow: one day, while the snow was falling pretty fast, I was
obliged to go out; and as the flakes of snow fell upon the sleeve of my
coat (which was black), I thought they had a curious shape, and did not
all appear alike; so when I returned home I caught some of the flakes,
and looked at them through my microscope. They were so beautiful that I
made pictures of them; and as we have now reached home, just let me step
into my study, and I will bring them to you. Here they are, boys."



"Oh, Uncle Philip! these are very pretty; they are all so different,
too!"

"Yes, boys, I picked out different ones to draw: when I was done, I
began to look into my books to find out what others had written about
this thing; and I found that a gentleman named Dr. Hook had seen more
than a hundred different shapes and sizes of these flakes. This is God's
work, boys.

"Now I have brought you out another picture: it is the point of a very
small needle, seen through the very same microscope which showed me the
snow-flakes. Just look at it, boys. This is _man's_ work."




     _Uncle Phillip tells the Boys a Story about a Philosopher and
     his Kite.--He tells them, too, about Ants that have Awls, and build
     Cities, and Stairs, and Bridges, and many other things._


"So, boys, you have come again to see me. I am very glad of it; for as
this is a leisure day, we shall have time enough to talk: but what is
that you have there? Oh, I see now; it is a kite."

"Yes, Uncle Philip; it is a French kite that we have been making, and we
have come to ask you to go out with us this morning and see us fly it."

"Very good, boys; I will go. I am an old man now; but I remember that I
was a boy once, and loved to make a kite sail. It always makes me happy
to see boys and girls playing about in health, provided they are not
wasting time, and their play is not to do harm to anybody or any thing.
So come on; we will go out upon the green common yonder, behind the
church, and I think we shall have a grand kite-flying, for the wind is
about right.

"There, boys! up she goes! Let out the string. I think she behaves very
well; there, she is done pitching about: now she is steady; see how she
mounts. Ah, that is a very good kite."

"Uncle Philip, I was reading a book yesterday which said, 'A philosopher
once found great help from a kite.' What did it mean?"

"Do you know what a philosopher is?"

"Yes, Uncle Philip; a philosopher is the same thing with a very wise
man, is it not?"

"That is pretty near the meaning. Philosopher means a person who loves
wisdom; and such a person, you know, will always be trying to get
knowledge; and a person who is always trying to get knowledge is apt to
be a wise and learned man."

"Well, how could a kite help a man to get learning? Did he read the old
newspapers it was made of? I cannot see any other way."

"But there may be another way without your seeing it, you know. The
philosopher whom your book meant was Dr. Franklin. Did you ever hear of
him?"

"Oh, yes; he was born in Boston, and was a printer, and afterward became
a very great man."

"That is true. He was a man of excellent sense, who both read and
thought a great deal; and in the war which the people of this country
had with England to get their freedom. Dr. Franklin's sound sense was of
great use to his countrymen."

"But, Uncle Philip, how did the kite help him?"

"I will tell you. If you take a proper piece of glass, or sulphur, or
sealing-wax, or rosin, and rub it for some time, and then hold it near
to small bits of thread or paper, the thread or paper will fly towards
the glass or sealing-wax, and stick to it for a short time. That which
makes them fly to the glass and stick there, is called _electricity_.
After this was found out, men went on slowly finding out more and more,
until at last a man named Hawksbee made a large machine with a glass
barrel, which could be turned around by a handle like that which you see
to a grindstone; and with this machine (which I will show you at some
other time) he managed to get a great deal of this electricity, and it
would shoot off in sparks, which appeared like little lightning.

"And now, boys, what I am going to tell you will show you the use of a
man's eyes. Dr. Franklin knew all about the electrical machine, and was
very fond of drawing off the sparks from it, to see what he could find
out about it. And when he saw it appeared so much like lightning, and
could feel too a spark strike his hand a smart blow, he began to think
that perhaps it was exactly the same thing with the lightning which came
from the clouds; so he determined, if he could, to find out whether it
was or not. He was a great deal troubled for some time to know how he
should get down any of the lightning from the clouds; until at last,
one day, he saw a boy flying a kite; and that showed him the way. So
he took a large silk handkerchief, and stretching it upon sticks, soon
made his kite; and not long afterward, when he saw a black thunder-cloud
coming up, he took his kite and walked out of Philadelphia (where he
then lived) into the fields, and sent his kite up. He had a string like
yours, made of hemp, and to the end of this he tied an iron key, and
then fastening it to the post of a shed by a silk cord, which he tied
to the end of the hemp string, he got under the shed, and waited a long
time. Now, boys, if he had been impatient, all his work would have been
of no use. But he even waited, after a very heavy cloud had passed over
his kite without giving it any of its lightning. At last, when he was
almost ready to give it up and go home, he saw some loose threads on the
hemp string rise and stand up straight, just as he knew the electrical
machine would make them do. He directly put his knuckle to the iron key,
and off came the spark, which he knew at once was exactly like the spark
which he could get from the machine. And so, boys, he found out what
he wished to know; and this was the way in which the kite helped the
philosopher."

"Well, Uncle Philip, this is really a very pretty story about Dr.
Franklin and his kite. Was anybody with him?"

"Nobody but his son; he took him out to help him raise the kite. But,
boys, I see the other lads are walking on towards the bridge with our
kite; let us follow them, and as we go, I will tell you of an electric
_animal_."

"Oh, we shall be very glad to hear of him."

"Listen, then. There is a kind of eel, which when it is touched will
give a very hard blow, just like an electric shock, to the person who
touches it."

"Is there any spark, Uncle Philip?"

"No, boys; there is no spark,--but the blow is tremendous. I remember
reading of one of these fish which was caught in a net, and a foolish
sailor would take it up, though he was told it would hurt him. The fish
shocked him so violently that he fell down in a fit, and it was a long
time before he came to his senses; and his story was, that the moment he
touched the fish, 'the cold ran swiftly up his arm into his body, and
pierced him to the heart.' The fish has this power to defend itself, and
to kill other fish for food."

"But, Uncle Philip, how do they ever manage to catch them alive? I
should think they would be shocked to death."

"I will tell you. A very sensible traveller and learned man[9] gives an
account of the manner in which they catch them, by a way called, by the
South American Indians, 'fishing with horses.'"

"Fishing with horses! What does that mean?"

"The savannas, or large open plains, in South America have a great many
wild horses and mules running over them. M. Humboldt says that the
Indians caught about thirty of these, and drove them into the pond where
the electrical eels were. The horses made a great noise, and stirred up
the mud with their hoofs, and this brought up the eels from the bottom
in a great rage. They were very large, and looked more like water-snakes
than like eels; and rising to the top of the water, they crowded under
the bellies of the horses and mules, and began to shock them. The poor
horses would try to get out of the pond; but the Indians, with spears
and long reeds, would stand around to hinder them from coming out: some
of them, too, would climb upon the trees around the banks, and get out
upon the branches which were over the pond, and by crying out aloud,
and using their long reeds, kept the horses in the pond. The eels would
continue to shock them with tremendous blows, and a great many of the
poor creatures were either stunned or killed, and would sink. Those not
killed would pant and raise their heads, while their eyes would show
their pain, and they would try to get out. The Indians still drove them
back, but some few escaped, and reached the shore, stumbling at every
step, and would stretch themselves on the bank, tired out, and benumbed
in their limbs by the shocks they had received. M. Humboldt says that in
less than five minutes after the fight began, two horses were drowned;
and he thought that the end of it would be, that every horse which did
not get out of the water would be killed: but at last the eels became
tired, and began to disperse. This is just what the Indians wish. They
know that the eels have spent so much of their electrical power that
they will need a long rest. It takes them a great while to get back
their strength; so that if, the next day after such a fight, you send in
more horses, they cannot kill one. When the eels, tired out in this way,
begin to separate, they will swim to the edge of the pond, and there the
Indians take them with small harpoons fastened to long cords. When the
cords are dry, the Indian feels no shock in raising the eel out of the
water. In this way M. Humboldt got five, all alive, and very little
hurt. But here we are at the bridge."

"Uncle Philip, suppose we sit down under the shade of this tree, and
rest."

"I am willing, boys; but take care of the damp ground: there is an old
piece of timber that the men have taken out of the bridge, for I see
they have been mending it; we will sit on that."

"But, Uncle Philip, what shall we do with the kite? shall we draw it
down?"

"Do with it! Why, just tie the end of your string to that root, and it
will take care of itself in this wind."

"What a monstrous piece of timber this is. Uncle Philip! It must have
taken a great many men to move it; and see--there are some larger ones
still in the bridge. It must be a difficult work to build a bridge."

"Yes, it is so: but there are bridges much harder to build than our
little wooden one here. Some are built of stone, and it takes years to
finish them. None but a good workman can plan and build a good stone
bridge: but I know a little fellow that can make as good a bridge as
anybody; and yet no man ever taught him the trade."

"Ah! now we know what is coming. You are going to tell us of a dumb
animal that can make a bridge."

"Yes, I am: and a small animal it is, too, for it is an ant."

"What sort of an ant is it?"

"It is called the white ant; and as there is a great deal that is very
curious about this insect. I think that I had better tell you all about
it at once."

"Pray do, Uncle Philip; you know you promised to tell us about ants."

"True, boys; and I like to keep my promises. In my story about these
ants, I think, if you attend, you will find more tools; and besides
that, you will hear of a great many things which man makes, and which
show matters quite as strange as any of which I have yet told you."

"What are they, Uncle Philip?"

"They are the building of something like a city, and bridges, and
stairs, and roads, and tunnels under ground, and--"

"Oh, let us hear--let us hear! We have heard nothing equal to this yet."

"Well, then, I begin by telling you that these insects are very common
in Africa, and in the East Indies, and are troublesome enough, for they
eat almost every thing but metal and glass. They love wood, though,
better than any thing else; and they are so numerous that they destroy
it wonderfully fast. They are very cunning, too; they never eat the
outside of the wood first, but will work upon the inside, so as to leave
the outer part not thicker than a piece of pasteboard. But the curious
things I meant to tell you were about their city; so I will go on to
that. When they first begin to build you will see little hills shaped
like a sugar-loaf, and rising up above the ground about a foot, or a
little more. Here is a picture of them.



The highest of these little hills is always in the middle; and they go
on building more and more, and making them all higher, still keeping
the tallest one in the centre. When they have made them as high as
they wish, then they fill in the spaces between the tops of all these
sugar-loaf hills, so as to make one roof over all. Here is a picture of
one finished.



After this is done, they take down nearly all of the little sugar-loaf
hills inside; for they only wanted them for a scaffold to support the
top while they were building it."

"Uncle Philip, what is all this built of?"

"It is built of clay, which the ant makes almost as hard as stone."

"Are they strong, Uncle Philip?

"So strong, boys, that five men may stand on them; and it is a common
thing for the wild bulls to get upon them and look out, while the rest
of the herd are feeding below."

"Why, how high are they?"

"Oh, of different heights; some as many as five or six feet, others are
twelve, and the largest are as high as twenty feet, and would easily
hold a dozen men."

"And how large are the ants, Uncle Philip?"

"Not above a quarter of an inch high as they stand. Now, boys, just
compare the size of one of these nests with the size of the ant that
made it; and it is quite as large in proportion as the city of New-York
is when compared to a man's size; yes, it is a great deal larger in
proportion. These nests are sometimes five hundred times as high as the
ants which build them: now suppose that men built their houses five
hundred times as high as themselves, and as large at the foundation in
proportion to their height, what monstrous buildings they would be! But
let me go on. This outside shell, which I have been telling you how they
make, is nothing but the wall of the city; the buildings are all inside
of that."

"But, Uncle Philip, there is one thing I have been thinking of which
would make it more like a city still. But I hardly think they can have
that."

"What is it?"

"Why in a city, you know, where there are a great many people, there are
a great many trades: some do one thing and some do another to get money."

"Yes, that is true; and I am glad that you mentioned it, because it
reminds me of one thing I intended to tell you about these ants. Now,
it would not be reasonable, you know, to expect the ants to have many
different kinds of business to do, as the people in New-York have; but
still, boys, they are not all alike, and they do have work of different
kinds. There are in the city of the white ants a king and a queen, and
soldiers, and labourers, or workmen, and all these are different. Here
are pictures which will show them all to you. This is the king.



At first he has four wings, but soon loses them. He never grows any
larger after he loses them. The king may be known by his having two
large eyes. Here is the queen. She is the mother of the whole city;
and you see what a large body she has. It is full of eggs, and eighty
thousand will come from her in twenty-four hours. She also has two eyes.



"Here is a soldier: he has a large head, armed with two hooks, shaped
like a crooked awl, and very sharp.



"For every one of these soldiers there are about one hundred labourers.
The soldiers do the fighting; and though they are perfectly blind, they
fight well, and are very brave. The following is a picture, too, of the
soldiers' awls, seen through the microscope, to show you how sharp they
are.


"And here is a picture of the labourer; the largest part of the city is
made up of the labourers,--which shows us, I think, boys, that there is
more need of working than there is of fighting.


This class, like the soldiers, is blind, and scarcely ever go into the
open air; their work is mostly under ground or in the inside of wood.
Both, however, do come out when their city is attacked and broken: but I
will tell you of that presently."


FOOTNOTE:

[9] M. Humboldt.






     _Uncle Philip tells the Children more about the White Ants._


"Now, boys, as I have told you about the kinds of different work which
these ants do, we will go on, and I will tell you about the inside
of the city. The first thing to be done is to build a house for the
king and queen. This is the first house built in the city, and always
stands in the centre, directly under the point of the roof or top of
the outside wall. It is built nearly on a level with the ground, and is
shaped very much like a long oven, or the half of an egg split through
the long way. The floor is exactly level, and about an inch thick; the
roof is about the same thickness. The doors are on a level with the
floor, and just large enough to let one of the labourers go in."

"Why, Uncle Philip, how do the king and queen ever get out then."

"They never do get out, boys; they live in that house always, and they
are not the first kings and queens who have found that a palace is
sometimes a prison. Just around this house of the king and queen are
other houses built of clay, arched at the top, and of different shapes.
These are for the servants or labouring ants, who remove the eggs of
the queen as fast as she discharges them. The soldiers also live in
these houses. Next to these are the magazines, that is, the houses where
they keep their food, such as dry juices of trees and gums; and mixed
up with these are the nurseries. These are made by the labourers, and
are different from all the other buildings, for they are made of wood
gnawed or broken into fine threads, and joined together with some kind
of gum, and around each of them there is a case of clay. These nurseries
are to carry the eggs into for the young ants to be hatched. Between
all these different houses or parts there are thousands of galleries
or ways, which run among them and separate them from each other, and
these may be called the streets of the city. These streets run in all
directions, and extend as far as the outside wall; and houses are built
on top of houses, and streets run over streets, until they reach up
as high as two-thirds of the inside wall. But under the top of their
outside case they always leave a large open place that is never filled
up with houses. And around this space they will build three or four
large arches, sometimes two or three feet high; these I suppose are to
prevent the houses from falling in towards the centre of the city, which
is an open space, and on the other side they are fastened to the outside
walls, so that these houses are very firm."

"And what is all this made of, Uncle Philip?"

"All of clay, except the nurseries, which I told you were made of wood
and gum. Over the house of the king and queen there is a sort of flat
floor, some distance above it, with nurseries and magazines between the
under side of it and the top of the queen's house. This floor will not
let the water through it, so as to wet the palace where the king and
queen live, but will turn it off into large trenches or gutters under
ground, of which I will speak directly. The bridge I told you of they
build from this floor in the open space, directly under the top or dome
of the outside wall; it rises up and is joined to some hole in the side
wall of the houses above it."

"How large is it, Uncle Philip?"

"Why, sometimes it is half an inch broad, a quarter of an inch thick,
and ten inches long; all made of clay, so that it is very strange how
they manage to join it to the wall without its falling down by its own
weight while they were building it."

"And what do you suppose this bridge is for, Uncle Philip?"

"Why, I think there can be no doubt what it is for. When the city has
been growing for some time, some of the nurseries will be very high up
above the queen's house; but the labourers have to carry her eggs into
them, no matter how far off they may be. If they carry them through all
the streets, they will have to walk as many as fifteen or twenty feet,
for it would be five or six feet in a perfectly straight line, and these
streets are very crooked; but if they make a bridge in the open space
in the centre, they can then go from the queen's house over the bridge,
and get to the upper nurseries without travelling more than two feet. So
they made the bridge to shorten the way, to be sure."

"This is very wonderful: but you said something about large trenches or
gutters underground; what are they, Uncle Philip?"

"These galleries lead from the city under ground, and are as large as
the bore of a large cannon; they are thirteen inches across, and more
than a hundred yards long. I have already told you that the labourers
never come out into the light, when they can help it; and these
underground ways are the great roads to the city, to fetch in clay, or
wood, or water, or provisions: and now I will tell you another thing
which shows a great deal of sense. As some of their houses are very high
up, you know they would find it very hard to climb up through all the
streets with a heavy load in a straight line; so when these large ways
underground reach the outside wall, they just come through and keep on
winding around the inside of it like a corkscrew all the way to the top;
and there are other galleries opening from it at different places into
the city. One thing has been noticed about these ants; they can scarcely
climb at all up a perpendicular wall. Therefore on the upright side of
any part of the city you may see a road made, standing out from the wall
like a ledge; it is flat on the top, and half an inch wide, and goes
up gradually like a stair-case, or like a road cut out on the side of a
mountain.

"Here is a picture of one of their cities cut straight down through the
middle. At the bottom, in the centre, is the queen's house; over it is a
floor, and the two crooked things you see rising up from the floor, are
bridges."



"But, Uncle Philip, you said you would tell us about the soldiers and
labourers coming out when the city is attacked."

"Yes, I did. As soon as a hole is made in the outside wall, you will
see a soldier run out, and walk about as if to look around; but as he
is blind, it cannot be to see what the danger is. He may have some way
though of finding out without seeing. Presently he will go in, as if
to tell the others, and then out pour the soldiers in great numbers,
as fast as the hole will let them; and just as long as you strike the
outside wall, they will continue to rush out. They seem to be in a
terrible passion. They are in such a hurry that sometimes they slip, and
roll down the outside of the hill; but they jump up again instantly,
and begin to bite every thing they run against, for they are blind and
cannot tell a friend from an enemy."

"Do they bite hard, Uncle Philip?"

"Very hard indeed. They make their hooked jaws, which are like awls, you
know, meet at every bite; and if it should happen to be a man's leg they
get hold of, you would see upon his stocking a spot of blood an inch
long. At every bite too you may hear their jaws snapping together and
making quite a noise. Some of them too (perhaps they are the officers)
are constantly beating with their awls upon the outside wall, and make a
sound something quicker and sharper than the ticking of a watch. You may
hear it at a distance of three or four feet. When these biters lay hold,
nothing will make them let go; you must tear them away by pieces. After
you stop striking the wall, in about half an hour they seem to get over
their rage and go back into the city, and then out come the labourers.
While the noise continues you will not see one of them; they all fled
at the first appearance of danger. But now they come, each one with a
bundle of mortar in his mouth, ready made; and they stick it on the hole
so fast, and with such order, that though thousands and thousands are at
work they never interrupt each other. And while the labourers are busy,
if you look you may commonly see a soldier or two walking about; but
they never touch the mortar, nor help in any way to mend the hole. One
of these soldiers always stands near the spot where the labourers are at
work, and every now and then turns slowly around, and frequently lifts
up his head, and with his awls beats upon the building, and makes a
sort of hissing noise. As soon as that is done you may hear a loud hiss
from all the labourers, both on the outside of the wall and from the
inside of the city, and then the labourers run faster, and work as quick
again. If you attack the nest again, away run all the labourers as fast
as their legs will carry them, and out pour the soldiers as before; and
the same thing is always seen upon every attack, of soldiers to fight
and labourers to work."

"Well, Uncle Philip, this is a very strange story; much more interesting
than any we have yet heard."

"I thought it would please you, boys; but there are still stranger
things among animals, and perhaps you will say so when you know more.

"But it is now time to return home; so take in the kite and let us be
going."


FOOTNOTE:

[10] Mr. Huber the younger.






     _Uncle Philip tells the Children about some other Ants, that
     are very good Masons, and build Walls and Ceilings; and a Story
     about a very sensible Ant, which seemed to think a little._


"Good morning, good morning, Uncle Philip; we have been so much
delighted with the stories about the white ants, that we hope you have
more of the same kind to tell us."

"Why, as to that matter, boys, I can tell you much more about ants, for
there are many kinds of them; but I am not sure that I can show you any
of the _tools_ with which they work, though a large portion of their
work is like that of man; and they have, too, several customs which our
fellow-creatures have. I can tell you, however, of several other animals
which do use tools shaped like those used by men, if you would rather
hear of them."

"If you please, Uncle Philip, we will hear of them at another time; but
now we would rather have you tell us of the other kinds of ants."

"Oh, very well, boys; it shall be as you wish. All that I desire is to
instruct and amuse you, and I am sure that the ants can furnish a good
lesson to us. I shall begin with the mason ants. They always build their
nests either of clay which is damp, and dug from the inside of their
city under ground, or which has been made wet by the rain; and a part of
their building is always above the ground, so that you can easily see
it. There is no fixed rule for the ants to build by. Their cities are
not all alike in the inside. Sometimes the walls are larger and coarser,
and the ways and galleries are higher, than at other times. The rooms,
too, are different in shape and size, so that this industrious little
insect seems to have sense enough to work in the best way according to
circumstances. There is only one general rule which they seem to have,
and that is always to build in a number of different stories, one above
the other. If you examine one of these stories you may see a number
of large places or halls, some smaller rooms, and some long galleries
which serve as passage-ways. The tops of these large halls are covered
with an arched ceiling, and this ceiling is held up, sometimes by little
columns, sometimes by very thin walls, or by props built against the
side walls, just like buttresses. There are also chambers which have but
one door, which opens into the lower story, and large open places in the
centre of the nest something like a cross road, and all these little
galleries or streets come into that open place."

"Any bridges, Uncle Philip?"

"No, boys; no bridges among these ants, so far as I know. There will
sometimes be as many as twenty stories above ground in the ant-hill, and
as many below. The best time to see these little fellows at work is in a
gentle shower of rain, or directly after."

"Why do they work in the rain, Uncle Philip?"

"I suppose, boys, it is because the earth is then better for them; and
one thing that has been noticed about their work is, that the rain, when
it is not too violent, seems to make it solid, for these ants have no
gum or glue about them like some other insects, to make the earth stick
together. As soon as the rain begins, if you watch the brown ants, you
may see them come out of the ground in great numbers; and then running
in again, they will soon return, each one with a little piece of dirt
in his mouth, which he puts down upon the roof of the nest. A gentleman
who watched them very closely[10] says, that at first he could not think
what this was done for, but at last he saw little walls begin to rise up
with spaces left between them. In some places pillars were begun, placed
at regular distances, and he knew that these were to support ceilings;
so he found out that they were going to build another story to their
house, and they were laying the foundations."

"How I should have liked to see them. Uncle Philip. I would not have
cared for the rain."

"Ah, I see you are fit to be a naturalist. You know what that word
means, do you not?"

"It means, Uncle Philip, a man who loves to study about the animals and
insects, does it not?"

"It means a man or a woman either, boys, who loves to study the things
in nature no matter whether they are animals, or stones, or grass, or
flowers, or any of the things which God has made. Mark, boys, I said
to study the things, and you said to study _about_ the things. Now a
person may read a great deal that is interesting and true about all
these things in books; and it is very well to do so; but I think that
the real naturalist will never be satisfied with books only; he will
be looking to see things for himself. And I said a woman might be a
naturalist, because some ladies have been fond of natural history, and
have proved themselves to be very good naturalists. But let us go back
to the ants. Mr. Huber, in the account which he gives of his having
watched these little workmen, never thought of telling us whether he
got wet or not, because he was too busy to think or care much about it.
He had an opportunity of seeing what he might never see again, and a
little rain was not to spoil it. He says that each ant, as it brought
out its little lump of dirt, would place it on the spot where it wished
it to be, and press against it with its teeth, so as to make it fit
closely. It then rubbed its feelers all over it, and after that pressed
upon it lightly with its fore-feet. The walls went on very rapidly, and
it often happened that two little walls, which were to make a passage
or gallery, would be raised opposite and at a small distance from each
other. When they were about a quarter of an inch high, the ants would
set to work and cover them with an arched ceiling. After they had raised
all the walls as high as they wished, on the inside of each wall at the
top they began to put in pieces of wet dirt almost level, and in such a
way as to make a ledge; and by joining on more dirt to it, it would meet
the ledge made from the opposite wall so as to make a roof: these roofs
over the galleries were about a quarter of an inch across. The ceilings
over the large halls were sometimes as much as two inches in breadth,
and to support these they raised pillars; and beginning in the corner
where two walls joined, they would commence the ceiling with a ledge,
while from the top of each pillar they would also build out a layer of
earth a little rounded on the top; these they continued to add to until
all met and made a complete cover for the hall."

"I wonder it did not fall, Uncle Philip, before they could join it
together."

"Mr. Huber says that he thought several times it would fall, from the
rain which was dropping upon it all the time; but he found that the
pieces held together, and that the rain, instead of hurting it, only
made it more solid. All that it wants, when the ants have done, is a
little heat from the sun to bake it hard, and then it appears like a
piece of solid dirt. Sometimes, if the rain be violent, the apartments
will be destroyed, especially if the arches are not built strongly; and
when this happens, the little creatures go to work very patiently and
rebuild them."

"And how long, Uncle Philip, did it take the ants to put another story
on their house?"

"Between seven and eight hours; and they had hardly finished one before
they began another, but they had not time to finish it, for the rain
stopped before they had built much: however, they kept on, taking
advantage of the wet earth; but a cold drying wind soon sprang up, and
the earth would not stick; so they stopped: but what do you think they
did with the new story which they had not time to finish?"

"What _did_ they do, Uncle Philip?"

"Pulled every part of it to pieces, and scattered the dirt here and
there over the roof of the story which they had finished.

"I will tell you another story about these ants, boys, which I think is
most wonderful, because it appears so much like reason. These insects
all seem to work separately,--I mean without attending to the work of
others: of course sometimes the work done by different ants on opposite
sides of the same gallery or hall will not suit: one wall will be higher
than the other, so that the ceilings will not meet. Mr. Huber saw just
such a case; the ceiling which was begun from one wall would just have
reached the other wall about half-way up; and while he was wondering
how the ants would cure the fault, one of them came, and looking at the
work, seemed to know that it was wrong, and immediately began by taking
down the ceiling from the lower wall; he then raised it to the same
height with the opposite wall, and made a new ceiling in Mr. Huber's
presence with the pieces of the old one."

"Uncle Philip, if that ant did not know how to think, I am mistaken."

"I must confess, boys, it does seem very much like thinking; and if it
was not thinking, we must at any rate own that it was something which,
_in this case_, did quite as well; for no thought of man could have hit
upon a better plan. But if the ant knew how to think as a man does, do
you suppose it would ever have made the mistake? Would not the workmen
have all agreed beforehand what they were to do, and how it should be
done, so that there might be no need of pulling down any of the work
because it would not suit? I think that this story, boys, while it shows
us something like reason in _one_ particular instance, shows us also
that _in general_ the ant has not reason like ours. But I am tired now,
and can tell you no more this morning. When you come again I shall be
ready to talk with you about some other kinds of ants. But before you
go, tell me--can any of you inform me what the Bible says about the ant?"

"Oh yes, Uncle Philip: it says, 'Go to the ant, thou sluggard, consider
her ways, and be wise.'"

"Well, another question. Have you any lessons to say when you go into
school on Monday?"

"Yes, Uncle Philip; we have."

"Have you learned them, boys?"

"No, sir."

"Then remember what the Bible says to the sluggard, and go and learn
them at once. Good-by, children."

"Good-by, Uncle Philip: we will learn our lessons."






     _Uncle Philip tells the Boys about Ants that go to War and
     fight Battles; and about some that are Thieves, and have Slaves._


"Well, my lads, how do you do to-day?"

"Very well, Uncle Philip, we thank you. And we wish to let you know that
we kept our promise to learn our lessons. Our teacher was very well
satisfied with every one of us."

"That is well, boys. I am truly glad to hear this from you: and I make
no doubt that you also felt a great deal happier than you would have
done had you neglected to learn your lessons. Did you not?"

"Oh yes, Uncle Philip, much happier; and far more cheerful and
good-natured."

"Such are apt to be the feelings, boys, of those who have done their
_duty_. I am verily persuaded that there is no such thing as real, solid
happiness in this world, but in that man who acts from a sense of duty.
His is true peace, because it is 'the peace of God.' I do not say, boys,
that a man, even when he does his duty, _always_ feels comfortable or
happy _at once_; but he will be more apt to feel so than if he did not
do his duty: and I do say that no man who does not act from a sense of
duty, is likely to feel any thing like happiness very often or very
long."

"Then, Uncle Philip, a man who wishes to be happy will try in the first
place to find out what his duty is."

"To be sure, he will; and he need not try very long either, if he really
wishes to know it. The will of God, boys, is at the bottom of all our
duties; and an honest man, yes, or boy either, can commonly tell what
God will think to be right or wrong in his conduct. You know where a
great many of our duties are very plainly written down for us; do you
not?"

"Oh yes, sir; in the New Testament, which tells us of what our Saviour
said and did."

"True. And what our Saviour commanded, boys, God commanded; for He is
God. But besides this, when it is not exactly written down in the New
Testament what we should do, still if we will think, we shall very often
find out what to do, from what is written."

"Uncle Philip, we almost always know what you mean; but now, we do not
quite understand you."

"Thank you, boys, for telling me that you do not know what I mean:
always tell any person who is trying to teach you something, when you
do not understand what is said to you. Now I will try to make what I
said plainer to you. The New Testament does not say any thing about your
going to school; does it?"

"No, sir."

"Who sends you to school, boys, and pays your teachers for instructing
you?"

"Our parents, Uncle Philip."

"Very well. Now suppose that John Carter here, should wish, instead of
going to school, to do, what I am very sure he never did do: suppose he
should determine to play the truant. The Bible does not say a boy shall
not play the truant, does it?"

"No, Uncle Philip."

"But if John Carter should play the truant, he would, in doing so,
disobey what God has commanded in the Bible just as much as if the Bible
did say 'A boy shall not play the truant;' for the Bible does say,
'_Children obey your parents_,' and he could not be a truant without
disobeying his parents, who bade him go to school."

"Uncle Philip, we understand you very well now."

"There is another thing I wish you to understand, boys. John Carter, as
you see, would not only disobey his parents, which is wicked, but he
would also commit a _sin_ against God. That is always the thing to look
at first. When we are going to do something that we are not very sure
is right, we should always stop to ask ourselves whether God will be
pleased with it. But I have said enough to you about our duty for this
time. Now for the ants I promised to tell you of. And the first sort I
shall mention are great fighters."

"Fighters, Uncle Philip! What do they fight about?"

"About trifles, boys, just as men do. They have terrible wars, and
will dispute with and kill each other for a few inches of dirt, when
certainly this world is large enough for them all. But animals wiser
than ants, boys, act in the same foolish way. Men sometimes go to war
and kill each other to determine who shall have a river, or a small
town, or a fort, or some little spot of ground; while the poor creatures
who do the fighting, and get all the wounds, and lose their lives, had
they been let alone, would have lived on in peace, and never cared a
straw who had the miserable little spot they fight for. But let me go
on with the account of these ants. In the forests, where the fallow
ants live, you may see these wars. The battle will be between the ants
of different hills, but they are all ants of the same sort. Thousands
and thousands of them will meet on the ground between their hills, and
the battle begins by two ants, who seize each other by the claws (or
_mandibles_, as they are called), and rising up on their hind-legs,
they bring their bodies near together, and spirt a sort of venomous or
poisonous juice upon each other. These will be followed by thousands of
others on both sides, who seize each other in the same way, and fight
in pairs--ant to ant. Sometimes they will get so wedged together that
they fall down upon their sides, but they do not let go on that account;
they keep on fighting in the dust until they rise on their feet again.
Sometimes, too, a third ant will come in, and joining whichever of
them belongs to his nest, the two will begin to drag the third, until
some of his friends come to his help; and in this way, others joining
on both sides, they will form strings of six, or eight, or ten on a
side, pulling with all their strength. And while some are fighting,
you will see others leading off prisoners towards their hills, while
the prisoners are trying to escape. The field of battle is not more,
perhaps, than three feet square; multitudes of dead ants covered with
venom may be seen upon it, and there is a very strong scent which comes
from it. When night comes they go off to their hills. Before dawn the
next day they are at it again in still larger numbers, and they fight
with greater fury than before, until at last one side or the other
gives way. They are so busy that even if you stand near them they take
no notice of you, and not one stops fighting, or crawls up your legs."

"Do all of them that belong to the hill go out to fight, Uncle Philip?"

"No; near the hills all is peace and order, and work seems to be going
on as usual. Only on the side next to the battle, crowds may be seen
running backwards and forwards from both hills; some as messengers, I
suppose, and some to fight, or carry back prisoners."

"But, Uncle Philip, you said that these ants were all of one sort; how
then do they know one another so as to tell which party each one belongs
to? I should think that sometimes they would make a mistake, and fight a
friend instead of an enemy."

"This, boys, is one of the most wonderful things concerning them. They
are alike in form, and size, and weapons, and strength; and sometimes
it happens that they do make a mistake, but it is very seldom; and when
they do, Mr. Huber, who watched one of their battles, says that they
find it out directly, and caress each other with their feelers, and
make up the difficulty at once.

"Are you tired, boys, or do you wish to hear more?"

"Oh, let us hear more, by all means: we are not at all tired."

"I will then tell you of another kind of ants called legionary ants,
and sometimes amazons; but I am sorry to say that they are unlike other
ants, for they are lazy; and yet they live very comfortably."

"How is that, Uncle Philip? Can they be comfortable without working?"

"Yes, boys, if they can get others to work for them; and these have
their work mostly done by their slaves."

"By their slaves! what are their slaves, and where did they get them?"

"As to your first question, boys, their slaves are ants of another kind;
as to the second question--where they get them--they _stole_ them when
they were young."

"Why you surprise us, Uncle Philip."

"I dare say I do. There are persons much older than you are who have
never attended at all to the doings of insects, who would be very much
astonished by the history of the legionary ants; and probably would
laugh at the whole account as an idle story; and yet it is all true,
and those who have read and seen, know it to be true; and they know,
too, that to deny it shows nothing but ignorance. However, I always let
such persons alone. I can do them no good; for they are apt to be very
conceited, and will not be convinced. And now for the legionary ant.
This is a fighting ant, as well as the last I mentioned; and it actually
steals the young of another kind, rears them, and puts all the work on
them, so as to be idle itself. This curious fact was first found out
by Mr. Huber; another gentleman, named Latreille, afterward saw the
same thing; and now a great many naturalists know it, because they have
sought for and seen it. The ant which it steals is of a dark ash colour;
the legionary is of light colour. The dark-coloured ant is now called
the negro ant, and is a very industrious, peaceable insect, without any
sting. The legionary is a strong, brave ant, with a sting, but very
lazy. I shall relate to you the account which Mr. Huber gives of the
legionary. He was walking near the city of Geneva during an afternoon
in the summer of 1804, when he saw quite an army of these legionary
ants crossing the road; they passed through a thick hedge, entered a
pasture, and kept on through the grass without separating; and Mr. Huber
followed them until he saw them come near a nest of negro ants. Some of
these negro ants seemed to be guarding the holes into their nest; but as
soon as they saw the legionaries, they, with a great many more from the
inside of the nest, attacked the thieves. The legionary ants, however,
were too powerful for them, and after a short but severe fight they
conquered the negroes, who ran into the lower part of their nests. The
legionaries then mounted their ant-hill, some entered it by the holes
already made, and others began with their teeth to break other holes,
so that all the army might get into the hill. They went in and remained
but a few minutes, when they came out, each one having in his mouth a
young negro ant, and off they scampered, without any order among them,
every one going his own way, until Mr. Huber lost sight of them. The
next day he set out to go back and examine further, and on his way he
found a large ant-hill full of legionaries, and saw an army start from
it, which he followed. They made the attack as before, and each one
came off with a young negro ant in his mouth, and on going back to their
hill, from which Mr. Huber saw them start, he had an opportunity of
seeing them return, and was very much surprised to find all around the
nest of the legionaries a great many full-grown negro ants. At first he
thought that perhaps they had gone there to fight the legionaries, but
he soon saw that instead of fighting, the negro ants went out to meet
the legionaries returning, and would caress them, and give them food,
and finally take the young negro ants and carry them within the nest."

"But, Uncle Philip, why do the legionaries always take the young ones?"

"Because, boys, they know, I suppose, that the old ants would never be
satisfied to remove from their homes; and therefore they take the young.
These legionaries could work if they would, I think, but they depend
upon the negro ants for house and home, and food too; and nothing can be
more faithful and affectionate than these poor slaves are. To try them,
Mr. Huber took thirty of the legionaries, and put them with some of
the larvæ, or grubs of their own young, into a glass box with a thick
coat of earth at the bottom of it, and he put honey also in the box,
that they might not want food. At first the legionaries paid a little
attention to their young; but they soon stopped; and they neither tried
to make a house, nor took any food, so that in two days half of them
died. Mr. Huber then put in _one_ negro ant, and this little creature
set to work alone, made a chamber of the earth in the box, gathered the
young together, fed the old, and put every thing into complete order.

"At another time Mr. Huber broke one of the ant-hills of these
legionaries, to see how they would act, and in doing it, he, of course,
altered their galleries and chambers. The legionaries seemed to be
lost, and went wandering about, without knowing where to go; but the
negro ants appeared to understand very well where they were: they could
find such of the galleries as were not broken, and would take up the
legionaries in their mouths and carry them into them. If the negro
sometimes seemed for a short time to be lost, and not to know where it
was, it laid down its master, ran round and examined until it knew, and
then would come back, and pick up the legionary ant, and carry it off.
In one case Mr. Huber saw that the entrance to a gallery was stopped up
by a small lump of earth; the negro ant laid his master down, took away
the piece of earth, and then carried him in."

"Why, these poor negro ants are sensible as well as faithful, Uncle
Philip."

"Yes, boys, they are so; and I think it is likely that both kinds depend
in some way upon each other, but we have not yet found all about it. I
expect that in some things the legionary does for the negro ant what it
could not do for itself. God has made them necessary to each other, and
this is the reason they live together so kindly.

"But I think it is time now to leave the ants, and go back to our
business of seeking for something like man's inventions and tools among
the lower animals. Perhaps hereafter I may tell you more about ants; but
at present I must bid you good morning."

"Good morning, Uncle Philip."






     _Uncle Philip and the Boys make a Voyage, and he tells them
     of an Animal that makes itself into a Ship; and of an Insect that
     builds a Boat, and floats about in a Canoe; and of another that
     pumps Water, and wears a Mask; and of a Spider that builds a Raft,
     and floats upon it._


"Well, boys, I have a most delightful plan for us to-day."

"What is it, what is it, Uncle Philip?"

"Why, I have a little voyage to make, and my boat is on the river just
above the mill. I have the men there to row it, and every thing is
ready."

"Oh! dear Uncle Philip, this is charming! we shall be so happy!
But--but--"

"But what, boys?"

"Why, Uncle Philip, we have not asked leave at home. Now our parents are
very happy to have us visit you, and say that they are very much obliged
to you for telling us so many things; but they have told us, too, never
to get into a boat without asking their permission first. Uncle Philip,
we are sure they will let us go, if they know that you are going; only
let us run home and ask them."

"My dear boys, I am very much pleased with your conduct; and, what
is far better, my children, God is pleased; for he has commanded you
to honour your father and mother: but you need not go home to ask
permission, for you may depend upon it I would not take one of you upon
the water without the consent of your parents: so I went yesterday,
while you were all at school, and have got permission from your friends
for every one of you to go--only I asked them to tell you nothing about
it."

"Oh dear, Uncle Philip, you are so very, very good: thank you, thank
you, a thousand times over."

"Once is enough, boys. There is but one Being who deserves a thousand
thanks, and he, in truth, deserves a great many more than a thousand;
but I fear that from a great many he is just the Being who gets the
fewest,--it is our Heavenly Father: but come on, boys, let us be going
to the boat. We shall soon reach her. Ah, yonder she is; I see her
through the trees."

"Oh, what a beauty she is, Uncle Philip, with her green sides and white
belt near the top. We shall have a charming voyage."

"Come, then; get in, my little sailors, and seat yourselves yonder in
the stern. Now we are all ready; shove off, men, and use your oars. I
will take care of the helm."

"Oh, Uncle Philip, how smoothly we go along! this is charming. Is this
the way a ship goes, Uncle Philip?"

"A ship floats, boys, just as the boat does; but she is not rowed with
oars; she has sails, and the wind blowing upon them sends her along."

"Uncle Philip, there are no ships among animals, are there?"

"Oh no; but there is a very curious little animal which lives in the
water, and manages to rig out something like a ship, and to sail."

"What is it, Uncle Philip? pray let us hear of it."

"It is called the nautilus, and I saw a great many of them in the
Mediterranean sea. The shell is nearly round, and six or eight inches
across, not much thicker than paper, and of a whitish colour: it
has, too, a keel or ridge upon each side. When it wishes to sail, it
stretches upwards two of its legs: these have a very thin skin at the
end, which the nautilus spreads out for sails, and the other legs hang
over on each side of the shell for oars or rudders. When the sea is
calm, a great many of them may be seen playing about; but as soon as a
storm arises, or they are disturbed, they take in their sails and sink
to the bottom. But, boys, the most curious boat that I know, made by one
of the dumb creatures, is the work of the little insect that played the
doctor the other day, and stuck his lancet into us. Do you remember what
insect that was?"

"Oh yes, very well, Uncle Philip, it was the gnat."

"True, boys, it was the gnat, which is an insect that spends the first
part of its life in the water, and the latter part in the air. The grub
of the gnat lives in water, and I will give you the whole history of
this curious insect. We will first speak of the eggs, for out of these
it is that the boat is made. In order to see this boat made, you must
go early in the morning, between five and six o'clock, to a bucket, or
pond of stagnant water, where gnats are to be found: if you go later
you will not see it. The gnat's eggs are shaped something like a pocket
powder-flask, and it is by putting a great many of these together that
she makes the boat. To do this, the mother gnat stands by her fore-legs
upon the side of the bucket, or on a leaf or stick in the pond, and her
body is on a level with the water, and rests upon it, except the last
ring of her tail, which she raises a little. She then crosses her two
hind-legs in the shape of the letter X, and begins to put her eggs in
that part of the X nearest to her body. So she brings her legs, crossed
in this way, near to her body, and puts an egg in the angle, covered
with a kind of glue, which will make the eggs stick together. On each
side of the first egg she puts another in this shape .*., and here is a
drawing of the insect at this part of her work.



"She then goes on adding eggs, which are all put in the water with their
ends downwards, until she has got her boat half-finished; she then
uncrosses her legs, and just keeps one on each side of the boat as she
goes on, until she has completed it."

"And how many eggs, Uncle Philip, will she put together in this way?"

"From two hundred and fifty to three hundred and fifty, and when all are
laid they make quite a good boat, sharp, and raised at both ends, and
floating on the water. Then the mother gnat leaves it. Here is a picture
of one of these boats.


"Now I will tell you of what becomes of the young ones in these eggs.
They come out of the lower part of the egg, and commonly swim, with
their heads downward, near to the top of the water."

"With their heads downward, Uncle Philip! what is that for?"

"Why, they have a tube at the end of their bodies, near the tail,
through which they breathe; and that part must, you know, be at the top
to get air. Besides this, its tail and its breathing tube both end in a
sort of funnel, made up of hairs placed somewhat in the form of a star,
and covered with oil, so as to keep off water, and these buoy or float
it up. When it wishes to sink, it just folds up its funnels, and shuts
up in them a little bubble of air, which it breathes under the water;
and when it wishes to rise, it opens its funnels, and they float it to
the top again. Here is a drawing which will show it to you.



"They are hatched in a few days, and then the boat of empty eggs floats
about until it is destroyed by the weather. And to show you how good a
boat it is, I will tell you what a gentleman did to prove it. Mr. Kirby,
who is very fond of natural history, and has written a great deal about
insects, says that he put half a dozen of these gnat-boats in a tumbler
half full of water, and then poured upon them a stream from the mouth of
a quart bottle, held up a foot above them, and he could not sink them.
More than that, the water would not stay in them. If you push one to the
bottom with your finger, it will come up to the top directly, and you
cannot see any water in it."

"Why, this is a noble boat, Uncle Philip, that will never sink."

"True, boys; but listen, and you will find that before it can use its
wings the gnat has to sail in another boat still, much more dangerous
than this is. After it is hatched, it has to pass through several shapes
before it gets to be such an insect as you see. Here is a picture which
will show you its different shapes.



"The first is the same which you saw in the last picture, only in this
drawing the head is uppermost. But its last change, when it becomes
an insect with wings, is the most curious part of the whole. When it
is about to get its wings, and become a perfect gnat, it raises its
shoulders just above the top of the water, and its skin cracks, so that
the head of the gnat immediately comes through. The shoulders come next,
and make the crack larger; but it has yet all its body to get out, and
its legs and wings are as yet all shut up in its case. Now is the time
of danger for the gnat. It raises itself nearly straight out of the
crack, and by wriggling works its body along: and if a particle of water
should get upon the case, or touch its wings, it would be overset, and
must perish. Thousands and thousands die in this way. It is so very
light, too, that the wind will drive it about, and whirl it round and
round upon the top of the water; and when it is almost out, the insect
is tossed about in a canoe or boat of the very weakest sort, while its
body is a mast, which appears much too large for so small a boat. At
last it gets far enough out of the case to stretch its fore-legs, and
put them down upon the water (which will bear a gnat's weight), and then
it is safe; it spreads its wings, and soon leaves the little boat which
was so dangerous. Here is a picture of the gnat getting out of its case."



"Well, Uncle Philip, all this is very strange; we never knew before that
the gnat was a sailor."

"I suppose that you did not, boys. But as we are talking of boats, pray
can you think of any way of making a boat move through water without
oars, or paddles, or sails, or something to pull it along?"

"No indeed.--Oh yes, Uncle Philip, by steam."

"Ah, I mentioned paddles, boys, and a steamboat is forced along by them."

"No; Uncle Philip, we do not know."

"Well, I will tell you then of another way in which I have no doubt a
boat might be made to move. If there were any contrivance by which a
large quantity of water could be kept in the boat, and if this water
were forced out of tubes or holes at one end very violently, it would
push against the water in which the boat was floating, and force her
along. Some years ago a plan was thought of to make a steam engine throw
the water out of the stern of the boat, and thus to force her along; and
before that, Dr. Franklin tried some schemes for the same purpose, but
they never succeeded. Now there is an insect which adopts precisely this
plan, and perhaps some of those who thought of it got the notion from
the insect."

"What insect is it, Uncle Philip?"

"It is the grub of the dragon-fly. If you catch one of these grubs and
put it into a saucer of water with some of the dead leaves or sticks
it had for a covering, you will see these leaves or sticks floating
towards the tail of the grub, and afterward driven off again. This is
because the insect is pumping in water, and then throwing it out. If you
take one of them out of the water, and hold it with its head down, and
let a drop of water fall upon its tail, it instantly sucks it in, and
you can see it grow larger; and when it throws it out again it becomes
smaller."

"But, Uncle Philip, how can you see it suck the water in?"

"Very easily, boys. When it is in the water, if you will colour some
other water with indigo, or ink, or any thing else, and then hold a
glass tube just over the tail of the insect, and very carefully put some
of the coloured water into the tube, you will soon see the grub spirt
out a stream of it to the distance of several inches: or if you will put
the insect in a saucer of coloured water, and then suddenly move it, and
put it into one of clean water, you will see it spirt out the coloured
stream plainer still."

"Why, Uncle Philip, it must have a pump inside of it."

"It has, boys, something very like one. This stream of water is forced
out to help the insect along; for though it has six feet, it uses
them very little except for catching food. It drives the water out so
strongly against the still water behind it, that it sends it forward,
with a dart, very rapidly. Here are two pictures; one shows the pump
open, and the other shows it shut."



"Uncle Philip, is there any thing else curious about this insect?"

"There is, boys, something well worth attention; did you ever see a
mask?"

"Do you mean, Uncle Philip, a face made of pasteboard, very frightful
commonly, which you can wear over your own face?"

"That is a mask, boys; but so is any thing which is made to wear over
the face, and hide it. Now this little insect has a mask, not made
like a man's face, but which completely hides its mouth, and it is
exceedingly curious."

"How is it made, Uncle Philip?"

"Why, boys, I am not sure that I can tell you, so that you will
understand me; but I will try. Suppose your under-lip was horn, instead
of being flesh; and suppose it hung straight down until it reached the
bottom of your chin, so as to cover the whole of it, and that at the
bottom there was a large three-sided plate which was hollowed out, and
fastened by a joint or hinge to the bottom of your long lip, so that it
could turn up on the hinge and cover your face as high up as your nose,
and hide your long lip and your mouth and part of your cheeks: suppose,
too, that at the upper end of this long face-cover there were two other
pieces, so broad that they would cover all your nose and your temples,
and could open sidewise like jaws, and show your nose and mouth, so that
when they were opened they would appear like the blinders to a horse's
bridle; and then suppose that these jaws, upon their inner edges, were
cut into a great many sharp teeth, which fitted into each other, and you
will have some notion of this curious mask. Do you think you understand
me?"

"Why, pretty well, Uncle Philip, we think."

"Well, boys, here are some pictures, and with their help I hope what I
have been saying will be plain enough. In one picture the mask is shut;
and in the other, one of the jaws, like a blinder to a bridle, is open.
While the insect is at rest, it keeps the mask over its face; when it
wishes to use it, it unfolds it, and catches its food, and holds it to
its mouth. A gentleman once saw one of them holding and eating a large
tadpole."



"Uncle Philip, this mask is any thing but handsome."

"Very true; but you know we agreed when we were talking about the bats
to look at animals even if they were not handsome. And there is your
poor little ugly insect that you thought it right to kill, the spider;
did you know that the spider was a sailor, too?"

"No, indeed, Uncle Philip! Pray tell us of it, will you?"

"Yes; but wait a little, until we bring the boat's head right, for we
are near the landing-place. So--now, boys, I am ready. There is a very
large spider, about which not much is yet known, which actually builds
a _raft_, for the purpose of getting its food more easily. You may see
it sailing about upon the water, on a ball of weeds about three inches
across, which is held together probably by small silk cords spun from
itself; and the moment it sees an insect drowning, it leaves the raft,
gets the insect, and then returns to eat it at leisure. If you frighten
it, or it thinks danger is near, in an instant it is under the raft out
of sight."

"Ah, this is a cunning spider, Uncle Philip."

"Not half so cunning, boys, as the one we talked of which built a door
to its house. But here we are at land. Jump ashore, my lads, and give my
respects to your fathers and mothers, when you get home."

"We will. Good day, Uncle Philip."

"Good day, boys. I shall be glad to see you next Saturday."






     _Uncle Philip tells the Boys about an Insect with Tweezers,
     and another with Pincers; and shows them how a Fly's Foot is made,
     so as to stick to the Wall._


"How do you do, Uncle Philip, this morning?"

"Very well, boys, I thank you. You are all well, I suppose, or I should
not see you here."

"Yes, we are all well, thank you, Uncle Philip. But one of us would be
very glad to have your help."

"Why, what is the matter?"

"Charles Walker has run a splinter into his hand, and he wishes you to
get it out for him."

"Oh, certainly, I will do that, if I can. Let me see: but stay--I must
first put on my spectacles. Ah, now I see it; I can get it out, but I
must take my tweezers to it. There, it is out."

"Uncle Philip, those tweezers are very useful. If you had not had them,
you could not have taken hold of the splinter with your fingers; and
what would you have done then?"

"Tried to cut it out with the point of my penknife; but the tweezers are
better for such work; and that reminds me, boys, to tell you that there
are insects with tweezers."

"Why, what tool is it that you cannot find among them, Uncle Philip? It
really seems as if you found almost every kind among the lower animals."

"Oh, no--no, boys. There are a great many which I cannot find; but there
are several, too, which, as you know, we have discovered."

"And, Uncle Philip, we suppose that men learned to make their tools and
work at many of their trades from these dumb creatures."

"Stay, boys--I never said that, because I think that it is not true. We
know that in some things men did not learn from the insects, though they
might have done so. There is paper, for instance. How could men learn
to make it from the wasps, when it was a thins: in common use a long
time before Mr. Reaumur, of whom I told you, found out how the wasp made
it? So, too, with a great many tools; men invented them, and afterward,
perhaps, it was found out that insects had instruments like them:
and at other times the insects did show men how to make some things.
I will tell you of one which I think of just now. The city of London,
in England, is on the river Thames. Some time since a plan was adopted
to make what is called a tunnel under the river. This tunnel is a road
dug out of the earth, under the bottom of the river, across it; and of
course to keep the water from pressing in the earth as fast as it was
hollowed out, it was propped up by walls built on each side, with a very
strong arch at the top. The work has now stopped; but about half of it
was made. In building this arched road under the water, the workmen used
what they called a shield, to keep the water from coming through upon
them: and the gentleman who invented it, says that he first thought of
it, from examining a little animal named Taret, which will bore holes in
large pieces of timber under the water. This little animal has upon its
head a kind of shield, by which it keeps off the force of the water, and
works without being disturbed. So here was a case in which the insect
taught the man."

"Uncle Philip, that gentleman was a sensible man, in the first place to
watch the Taret and examine its head, and in the next place not to be
too proud to learn from it. I expect he was a naturalist; was he, Uncle
Philip?"

"I do not know, boys; but I should think his discovery of the shield
would make him an attentive observer, if he was not so before."

"Now, Uncle Philip, will you tell us of the tweezers?"

"Very willingly, boys. This instrument or tool belongs to the moths
which you see flying about at times. The tails are covered with a down,
which grows in the form of a thick brush or tuft, and has a shining
silky gloss, different in colour from the short hair upon the rest
of the body. The moth pulls off this hair to cover its eggs, and the
tweezers are used for that purpose. Here is a picture of the moths."



"Uncle Philip, you said that the moth pulled this hair off to cover its
eggs; are they easily frozen?"

"Not very easily, boys; but you are mistaken in thinking that the moth
covers these eggs to keep off the cold; for as she lays them in July and
August, and covers them at that time, it cannot be to keep off the cold."

"What is it for, then, Uncle Philip?"

"To keep off the summer heat, boys."

"Why, Uncle Philip! who ever heard of covering a thing up in hair or
wool to keep off heat?"

"I have heard of it, and seen it too, boys. It may seem strange, but
it is true, that down and wool, and such things, are nearly as good to
protect an animal from very great outward heat as they are to keep off
very severe cold. When I was at Naples, in Italy, it was summer;--the
climate is a very warm one.--The country people were in the habit of
bringing snow into the city from Mount Vesuvius, and every morning I
could see them coming in with their snow, which they sell to the rich
to use for cooling things: and they kept it from melting with straw
and wool. And in our own country, especially at the south, it is very
common when a large lump of ice is brought to the house to be used
through the day in midsummer, to wrap it up in a thick blanket until it
is wanted.

"But I have not yet told you of the tweezers. The moth has no jaws, like
bees and wasps, so that it cannot pull off these hairs as the bee would;
but, as I told you, it performs the work with its tweezers, which are
placed in its tail, and are like the points of a pair of sugar-tongs.
The insects, too, will use them very rapidly, and pull off a little of
the down, spread the egg upon it, and then cover it with more down, and
smooth it very neatly. Here are pictures of these tweezers."


"This is a curious instrument for the insect to have, Uncle Philip."

"True, boys, but a very useful one. I will tell you, however, of another
strange thing concerning moths with their tweezers; I mean the way
in which they will sometimes place their eggs. The kind of moth that
does this work is not exactly known, but naturalists think that the
eggs are moth's eggs, because they are covered with the down, exactly
like those which are known to be moth's eggs. These eggs are twisted
round a branch, like the thread of a screw, or like the curled end of
a corkscrew put over a small stick. Here is a picture of some of these
eggs."



"Ah, this is wonderful work indeed for a moth, Uncle Philip."

"As you seem to like this, boys, I will just mention to you that there
is another moth, called the lackey-moth, which winds its eggs also
around a branch. They are hard, however, and not covered with any down,
and are put on in the strongest possible way. If men wish to make an
arch of stone, you know that the stones will be more narrow at the
bottom than at the top, so that the bottom of the arch may make a small
circle, and the top a larger one: thus--

[

Now the moth goes on this principle. Its eggs are shaped like the bowl
of a wine-glass, and the smaller end is put next to the branch. They are
all glued together, too, with a kind of gum, which will not dissolve or
melt in water; so that the rain cannot injure them. Here is a picture of
these eggs.



"There is another insect, boys, which has something like tweezers;
though I think they resemble pincers most."

"What is it, Uncle Philip?"

"The boys call it father long-legs, and I dare say you have often seen
it. It is the crane-fly, and its pincers are used for putting its egg in
the hole it has made for it."

"Where does it put its eggs, Uncle Philip?"



"In the earth, boys; and to enable the insect to do this, the female has
the pincers I spoke of: they are made of something like horn, and are
sharp at the point. With these she first bores a hole in the ground, and
then puts the egg in. The egg is like a grain of gunpowder, and she puts
herself in a very curious posture to bore the hole. Here, boys, you may
see a picture of the pincers as they appear through a microscope, for
they are not near as large as the picture. And here is a drawing of one
boring."



"What good pincers those are, Uncle Philip: but will you tell us one
thing which we wish to know? Talking about the crane-fly has put me in
mind of it: the other day we were sitting together in school, and the
wall over our heads was covered with common flies; and when we came out,
we were talking about the way in which the fly stuck to the wall without
falling down; and as we could not tell what kept him up, we agreed to
ask you about it."

"I will tell you, boys, very willingly. I do not wonder that you were
unable to tell how the fly stuck to the wall; for you never tried to
find out, and therefore could only guess at it."

"And that is not a good way to find out any thing, Uncle Philip?"

"No, boys; though some persons much older than you are, did nothing but
guess about this very thing, and guessed very far from the truth too.
Some thought that the fly had a sponge in its foot, and squeezed a sort
of glue out of it which made it stick fast; others said that the glass
or wall was so rough that the fly's feet would catch hold of the little
points upon it; but both were wrong."

"How does it hold on, Uncle Philip?"

"Did you ever see what the boys call a sucker, made of a piece of soft
sole leather? That will show you how the fly's foot sticks fast. This
leather is cut round, and has a string through the centre; the boys wet
it, and then put it upon a board or something smooth, and stamp on it,
and try to raise it up from the board by the string; and it requires
some strength to pull it up: sometimes they put it on a small smooth
stone, and then lift up the stone by it. The reason why the leather
sticks so fast is because the air is pressing on it upon the outside,
and there is very little or no air between it and the board, to press
the other way."

"Why, Uncle Philip, is the air heavy?"

"Oh yes, boys, when there is so much of it as there is above the earth,
it presses down very heavily. Now the fly's foot is like the sucker;
when he puts it down he has a contrivance to drive out the air from
under it, so that there will be little or none between it and the wall;
and then the outer air presses upon it, and holds it fast."

"But, Uncle Philip, how does he get it up again?"

"Why, boys, by another contrivance, he can let air in under his foot
again, and then he can easily move it; for we do not feel the weight of
air when it presses upon both sides of us. The reason why you stand up
straight is because the air is pressing all around you; if it were on
one side of you only, it would press you down on the other side. Here is
a picture of the fly's foot, as it appears through the microscope. You
will see it has three suckers with the edges all like saws; these are
to make it stick the closer. This picture, boys, is sixty-four hundred
times as large as the fly's foot is."



"But, Uncle Philip, there is one thing yet hard to understand."

"What is it?"

"Why, the fly walks on the wall over our heads; now the air cannot press
down upon his feet there."

"Very true, boys: it cannot press _down_, but it can and does press
_up_ against his feet; for the air presses up and down and sidewise all
alike."

"Ah, now it is plain enough, and we are much obliged to you, Uncle
Philip, for telling us what we wished to know."

"You are quite welcome, my dear boys, to all that I can teach you: if it
makes you to be wiser and better men when you grow up, I shall be very
thankful to God that I have been able to do you any good."

"Good morning, Uncle Philip."

"Good day, boys; I shall expect to see you all in church to-morrow."

"We shall be there, Uncle Philip."





     _Uncle Philip tells the Boys how Hats are made; and then talks
     to them about Animals that can make Felt like the Hatter._


"Boys, do you remember my telling you of a remarkable bird, called the
tailor-bird, which sews very neatly?"

"Oh yes, Uncle Philip; it is not easy to forget such an excellent little
workman; but why do you ask--have you any thing more to tell us about
that bird?"

"No, boys, not any thing of that bird; but I was thinking last night
of the work done by several other kinds of birds, some of them quite
as good workmen as our little tailor; and I thought that, perhaps, you
might like to hear of them."

"We would, Uncle Philip, be very happy to hear of them, if you will have
the kindness to tell us about them. But what kind of work is it they do?"

"Various kinds, boys. There are some which make what is called _felt_,
just as the hat-maker does; and some are weavers, others basket-makers;
some build platforms to live on; and I assure you some birds' nests are
as curious as any of the things of which I have yet told you."

"Pray let us hear of them, Uncle Philip."

"Very well, you shall. I will begin with birds that make felt like the
hatter. Do you know how a hat is made?"

"Not exactly, Uncle Philip; but we know what it is made of."

"What is it, boys?"

"Of sheep's wool, and the hair of other animals: is it not?"

"Yes, commonly of these things; and to understand what I am going to
tell you, I think it will be necessary first to say something about the
hatter's trade. The business of the man who makes a hat is to mix up
wool or hair in such a way that it will stick together and make felt;
or something like a piece of thick, strong cloth. To do this, he does
not weave the hairs together, for they are of different kinds, and of
different lengths, and it would be endless work to weave every one in;
besides the cloth or felt would not be thick enough when it was done."

"How do they stick together then, Uncle Philip?"

"Why, boys, their sticking together is owing to something in the hairs
themselves. I will show you. Pull a hair out of your head; now hold it
just between the ends of your two fore-fingers, and rub the fingers
gently against each other."

"Why, Uncle Philip! see, the hair is moving towards my body."

"Very true; and if you will turn it with the other end towards you, and
rub your fingers as before, you will see it move from your body."

"This is very strange, Uncle Philip: the hair is smooth; how can my
fingers make it move so?"

"No, that is a mistake, boys, the hair is not smooth. If some kinds of
coarse hair are seen through the microscope, each one will seem to be,
not one hair, but ten or twelve smaller ones, which are joined at the
root, and form a hollow tube, like a straw; and sometimes it will have
joints just like some kinds of grass or straw. In some sorts of finer
hair you cannot see this even with the microscope; but you can feel it,
as you did just now when you moved your fingers. These joints overlap
one another, just as if you should take several pieces of straw and
stick them into each other. I will show you some pictures of hairs as
seen through the microscope, and then these joints will be plain enough."


"These are strange-looking hairs, Uncle Philip."

"Yes, they are curious; but now you may see why, when hairs are worked
together, they may be made to stick to each other. These rough parts
catch into each other, and hook themselves; and the more you press them
or move them, the more closely you work them into one solid mass, which
you cannot easily pull to pieces. Besides, you must remember that the
hairs will work only one way, as you found out just now when your finger
ends caught upon the little joints and moved them along. Now, suppose
that a very large heap of hairs, or wool, or fur, after it is made
ready, should be put upon a table, and covered with a linen cloth, and
pressed down in different directions. Each hair would begin to move in
the direction of its root, just as it did between your fingers, and so
all would be joined together at last into one solid piece."

"We understand you, Uncle Philip."

"Then you understand, boys, the way in which a hat is made. These hairs
are all worked together by the hands of the hat-maker, and to make them
work more easily (for curled hair, such as wool, does not move easily)
the hatter uses hot water, and dips his hat in it while he is working
it. After it is done, it is died, and then put upon a wooden block to
give it shape, and is ironed smooth."

"And this is the way, then, Uncle Philip, to make hats: it is curious,
is it not?"

"Yes, boys; but plain enough when you come to examine into it. And the
best stuff for the hatters is such hair as has most joints ready to
catch into each other: the rabbit's hair is very good, and for that
reason."

"And is it possible, Uncle Philip, that any bird can do such work as
this?"

"Not only possible, boys, but true. There are several birds very expert
at making felt, and their nest appears like a piece of hatter's felt, or
double-milled woollen cloth. I do not mean to say that it is as close
and solid as the hat or cloth; it would feel in your fingers looser than
either, still it is quite close; and when you examine it, you will find
it put together in the same way; it is all carded into one mass, and not
woven together thread by thread, or hair by hair."

"And are there many birds able to do such work, Uncle Philip?"

"I told you, boys, that there were several. The chief article which
they use is wool, but with this many other things will be found
mixed--sometimes, upon the outside, fine moss--sometimes pieces of a
spider's web rolled up into a little bundle--sometimes, when cotton can
be had, they will use small bunches of cotton-wool; but sheep's wool
they must have, and by means of that, they contrive to make, with the
other things I have mentioned, a felt wonderfully smooth."

"Is it smooth on the outside, Uncle Philip?"

"Sometimes quite so; but always as smooth on the inside, when it is
first made, as if it had been felted together by the hat-maker. There
is another thing curious enough in some of these nests. The hatter, you
know, binds the rim of his hat to make it stronger; and some of these
felt-making birds will make their nests stronger by a binding all around
them of dry grass stems, and sometimes of slender roots, and they take
care to cover these grass stems, or roots, with their felt-work of moss
and wool. But there is something else not less strange, I think, than
the binding. It is this: they will build their nests in the fork of a
shrub or tree; and to keep them from falling, they will work bands of
this felt round all the branches which touch the nest, both below and at
the sides. And those parts of the nest which touch the large branches
are always thinner than the other parts, which have no support; in those
parts the nest is nothing but a thin wall of felt, fixed around to
fit the shape of the branch, and that is enough to make that part of
the nest warm and soft. Here is a picture of one of these felt-nests,
fastened in the way of which I have been telling you."



"This, boys, is the nest of the chaffinch. The goldfinch makes a nest
of the same kind, only rather neater and smoother than that of the
chaffinch; for it takes pains to show nothing but the wool, and covers
up all the other materials which it uses."

"Uncle Philip, do these birds all use the same things to make their
nests?"

"All use wool, boys; but the truth is, that birds will commonly take
for their nests that article which they can get most easily, if it will
suit. A gentleman, named Bolton, tried this with some goldfinches. He
saw a pair of these birds beginning to build in his garden; they had
laid the foundation of their nest with moss, and grass, and such things,
as they commonly use: he scattered some wool about in different parts of
the garden; the birds took the wool: afterward he scattered cotton; they
took the cotton: on the next day he gave them some very fine down; they
took that, and finished the nest with it, and a very handsome nest it
was."

"How long were they in making it, Uncle Philip?"

"Three days. The canary-bird, boys, which you sometimes see in cages,
when free, builds a nest of the same kind. But the most curious
felt-makers among the birds, are in Africa. There is the Cape-tit,
a bird in the southern part of Africa, which builds a very strange
nest: it is shaped like a bottle of India-rubber, as thick as a coarse
worsted stocking, and made of cotton, and down, and other things felted
together. On one side of the nest there is something like a pocket, and
here is a picture of it."



"Uncle Philip, what is that pocket for?"

"Why, boys, some have supposed that it was for the male bird to sit on
and keep watch, while the female was inside of the nest sitting on the
eggs; but I think this is a mistake. And some have said, that when the
female leaves the nest, and the male wishes to go too, he sits in this
pocket, and beats against the side of the nest with his wing until he
has made the edges of the top meet, and thus shuts up the mouth of the
nest, and keeps off insects and other animals that would eat the young
ones; but I do not believe this story."

"Then what do you think the pocket is for. Uncle Philip?"

"I think, boys, that it is nothing but a perch, or place for the bird
to sit on before going into the nest. If the bird had no such place for
stopping, it might be troubled to get into its nest. The mouth is small,
and the bird could not enter it with its wings spread; and if it should
alight on the edge of the nest constantly, it would injure it, for it is
but slightly made. And I will tell you another reason why I think this
is the use of the pocket. There is another bird in South Africa, called
the pinc-pinc, which is the same species of bird as the Cape-tit; and
this bird we know uses its little nest built upon the side of the other
merely as a resting-place before going into the nest."

"Uncle Philip, does the pinc-pinc build its nest like a bottle, as the
Cape-tit does?"

"No, boys, not so smooth, but felted in the same way. The nest is
made mostly of the down of plants, and is either snowy white or
brownish, according to the colour of the down. On the outside it is a
clumsy-looking thing, but fastened, like the nest of the chaffinch,
very firmly to the branches near it, so that you cannot take it away
without breaking it to pieces. But rough as the outside is, you would be
astonished, if you were to look at the inside, and see how a bird, and a
small one too, with nothing but its wings, and tail, and feet, and bill
for tools, could ever have worked the down of plants together, so as to
make of it a piece of fine cloth. It has a narrow neck, something like
a chimney, at the top of it. This is the entrance; and at the lower end
of it there is a lump, which appears something like a small nest stuck
on to the larger one; sometimes there will be three or four of these
small-looking nests, and sometimes when there is a branch near the mouth
of the nest which makes a good resting-place, there will be none. Here
is a picture, boys, of the outside of one of these nests.



These birds are easily watched; and a French gentleman, who has written
the best account of the birds of Africa,[11] says that he has found
at least a hundred of these nests, and watched the birds for a whole
morning together, and never saw one sitting on the small nest as a
watch-bird; but has seen both the male and female arrive at the nest
together, perch upon the nearest branch, hop from this upon the edge of
the little nest, and then putting their heads into the hole, dart into
the large nest. And now, boys, what do you think about the use of these
little pockets?"

"Oh, Uncle Philip, we think that what you tell us is always right,
because you know a great deal more than we do."

"But, boys, you do not understand me. I may be mistaken, though I do
know more than you. I have been telling you my reasons for thinking
these little pockets are nothing but perches. Do you think the reasons
are good ones?"

"Why, yes, Uncle Philip, we do. The French gentleman who watched the
birds so much would have seen some of them using the pockets for a place
to keep watch in, if they were made for that."

"Right, boys. What I wish to teach you is to think for yourselves.
Whenever any one gives you a reason for a thing, just ask yourselves,
'Is this a good reason?'"

"But, Uncle Philip, how did it happen that the other people who saw
these birds should have said that these pockets were for the male bird
to sit in and watch?"

"I suppose, boys, that they really thought so; but then they had not
noticed the birds enough to find out the truth. It requires a great
deal of time and patience to find out the truth about animals: and this
is the reason why so many mistakes have been printed about them. It is
a pity that such mistakes have been made; for really there is enough
that is very curious about them, without men's making stories to appear
strange. But I think that there will be fewer mistakes made in future."

"Why so, Uncle Philip?"

"Because, boys, men are taking more pains to see for themselves. There
are more naturalists now than there were formerly; and I hope there
will be more still, especially in our own large and beautiful country,
where there have not yet been many. I hope that natural history will be
studied in all our schools before a great while. But let us go back to
our African birds.

"There is another kind which Mr. Vaillant speaks of, and I will tell you
of that. He calls it the capocier, and he had a very fine opportunity to
watch two of them. It is a bird easily made gentle, and he had managed
by feeding two of them to make them so tame that they would come into
his tent and hop about several times in a day, though he never had them
in a cage. When it became time for them to build a nest, they staid away
for some time, and would come to the tent once only in four or five
days. At last they began to come regularly, as before, and Mr. Vaillant
soon found out what they came for. They had seen upon his table cotton
and moss and flax, which he used to stuff the skins of birds, and which
were always lying there; and the capociers had come for these things,
to build their nest of them. They would take up large bunches of them
in their bills and fly away. Mr. Vaillant followed and watched them to
see the nest built, and found them at work in the corner of a garden, by
the side of a spring, in a large plant which grew under the shade of a
tree. They were building in the fork of the branches, and had laid the
foundation, which was about four inches high and six inches across. This
part was made of moss and flax, mixed with grass and tufts of cotton.
The next day this gentleman never left the side of the nest: the female
was at work building, and the male brought the materials. In the morning
the male bird made twenty-nine journeys to Mr. Vaillant's table for flax
and cotton and moss; and in the afternoon he made seventeen. He would
help his mate to trample down and press the cotton with his body, so
as to make it into felt. Whenever he came with a load, he would put it
either upon the edge of the nest or upon some branch within reach of the
female.

"After he began to help the female at her work, he would often break
off, and begin to play; and sometimes, as if in mischief, he would pull
down a little of her work. She would get angry, and peck him with her
bill: but he still continued to vex her, until at last, to save her work
from being pulled down, she would stop working, and fly off from bush
to bush, to tease him. They would then make up the quarrel, and she
set about her work, while he would sing most delightfully for several
minutes. After his song was finished, he would go to work again, until
he got into a new fit of mischief and frolic, and then he would torment
her as before.

"On the third day the birds began to build the walls, after having
repeatedly pressed the bottom, and turned themselves round upon it in
all directions, to make the nest solid. They first made a plain border
all around; this they trimmed, and on it they piled up tufts of cotton,
which they felted in by beating and pressing with their breasts and
wings; and if any part stuck out, they worked it in with their bills,
so as to make all perfectly smooth and firm. And they worked their nest
round the branches near it, just as the chaffinch does.

"In seven days they finished it. It was as white as snow, and on the
outside it was nine inches high, and not smooth or regular in its shape;
but in the inside it was shaped exactly like a hen's egg, with the small
end up: the hollow was five inches high, and between four and five
inches across; and it was so neatly felted together that it might have
been taken for a piece of fine cloth a little worn; and so close that
you could not take away any part without tearing the nest in pieces.
Here is a picture of the nest, boys, and it is wonderful work for a
small bird."



"Oh, Uncle Philip! we like the capociers very much. When they were tired
of working, they were ready to play; and when they had played enough,
they went back to work. Do not you think there was good sense in that?"

"Yes, boys, I do: it will not do, either to work all the time or to play
all the time. All that we have to do is to take care that we do not
spend more time than we should at either. But there is a sweet little
bird, boys, quite common in our own country, which makes felt: would you
like to hear of it?"

"Oh yes, Uncle Philip. What bird is it?"



"It is the humming-bird. Here is a drawing of its nest. It is about an
inch deep, and an inch across; and from a little distance, appears more
like a small knot upon the branch than like a bird's nest. The outside
of the nest from which this picture is made, was covered with a kind of
bluish-gray lichen, that grows in scales upon old trees and fences: this
seemed to be glued on by the bird in some way or other. The inside was
the felt, and was made of the fine down from seeds that float about in
the air, mixed with the down from mullein-weed and stalks of fine grass.
This, boys, is the smallest nest made by a bird, I believe; and some
insects make larger houses for themselves than this bird does.

"But I have not time at present to talk with you any longer, as I have
letters to write; and therefore I must bid you good morning."

"Farewell, Uncle Philip."


FOOTNOTE:

[11] M. Vaillant.






     _Uncle Philip tells the Boys about Birds that are Weavers; and
     about the Politician-bird; and a Story about some Philosophers; and
     what may be learned from these Conversations._


"Well, boys, were you pleased enough with our last conversation to wish
to hear more about birds' nests?"

"Yes, if you please, Uncle Philip. You said something about birds that
were weavers; we should like to hear something of them."

"Very well, then; I will talk about the weavers this morning. And the
first thing I have to say is that this is no uncommon trade among birds.
Take the nest of any of the common small birds that use hair for a
lining, and you will be apt to find some part of it woven."

"But, Uncle Philip, you do not mean that birds weave as smoothly and
regularly as people do!"

"Not quite, boys; but still it is very fair weaving, and done as our
weaving is, by working a hair or thread in and out between other hairs
and threads, or roots, or bits of stick and grass. The best way to see
it, is to remove the outside work of hay or roots very carefully, or to
take away the felt-work of wool or moss, and you may see a round piece
of hair-cloth, sometimes finer, and sometimes coarser, according to the
bird that made it, and the things of which it is made. In the common
sparrow's nest the hair-cloth is very thin, so that you can see through
it easily; but still every hair is woven in singly, and always bent,
so as to lie smooth in the bottom of the nest. And there are no ends
of hairs left sticking out; they are always worked into the moss which
makes the outside of the nest."

"Uncle Philip, how do the birds make the hairs lie smooth in their
places?"

"About that, boys, there is some uncertainty. Some persons think that
the birds have a kind of glue in their mouths by which they make them
stick; and others suppose that they wet the hairs, so as to make them
bend. But there are much better weavers than the common sparrow. The
red-breast and the yellow-hammer are both better workmen."

"Where do they get hairs. Uncle Philip?"

"They find bunches of them sticking in the cracks of a fence or post
where a horse or cow has been rubbing; and some of these little
creatures, when they find such a bunch, will pull it to pieces, and work
it in, hair by hair."

"Are there many of these weaver-birds. Uncle Philip?"

"Yes, boys, a great many: our country is quite full of them. There is
the mountain ant-catcher,[12] which will weave a nest of dry grass, and
wind the blades round the branches of a tree; and the king-bird,[13]
which first makes a basket frame-work of slender sticks, and afterward
weaves in wool and tow, and lines it with hairs and dry grass. There is
another, too, the white-eyed fly-catcher, which some have called the
politician. This bird builds its nest and hangs it up by the upper edge
of the two sides on a vine. The outside is made of pieces of rotten
wood, threads of dry stalks or weeds, pieces of paper, commonly old
newspapers; and all these are woven together with caterpillar's silk,
and lined with fine dry grass and hair."

"Uncle Philip, why do they call it the politician? What is a politician?"

"What is commonly called a politician, boys, is a person who is always
reading in newspapers about the government of the country, and talking
a great deal about the President and Congress, and the laws that are
made, and all such things: but the real politician is one who studies
the different kinds of government which have been in the world, and
endeavours to find out which is good and which is bad, and why they are
good or bad. He reads, too, a great deal of history, to learn how other
nations have done, what kind of laws they made, and why they made them,
how they became great nations, or how they became very poor; and he
_thinks_, too, a great deal, that he may find out what will be best for
his own nation. It requires hard study and thought, boys, to make a good
politician."

"Then, Uncle Philip, a man cannot learn how to be one out of the
newspapers."

"No, boys; not out of newspapers alone: but still he will read them,
and very often learn from them things very useful to him in his
business. Newspapers are valuable things, and I think it is always best
for a country to have a great many of them spread about in it. But they
will not, of themselves, make a man a politician; and if you should ask
the persons who print them, whether they expect them to teach men all
about governments, they will tell you, No: but they will teach people
what is doing in all the governments in the world. No good government,
boys, will ever be afraid to let the people have newspapers. They are
always fewest where the government is hardest upon the people. But let
us go back to the birds. Can you tell me now why some people call the
fly-catcher a politician?"

"Oh, yes; because he has so many bits of old newspapers about his nest."

"That is the reason, boys. There is another kind of fly-catcher, called
the hooded fly-catcher, and it weaves its nest of flax and strings
pulled from the stalks of hemp: but the best weaver in this country
is the Baltimore starling. This bird chooses the ends of high bending
branches for his nest, and he begins in a forked twig, by fastening
strong strings of hemp or flax around both branches of the fork, just
as far apart as he means the width of his nest to be: he then with
the same kind of strings, mixed in with pieces of loose tow, weaves
a strong, firm kind of cloth, which is like the hatter's felt in
appearance, only that you can see that the nest is woven, not felted.
In this way he makes a pouch, or purse, six or seven inches deep, and
lines it on the inside with several soft things, which he weaves into
the outside netting, and finishes the whole with horse-hair. Mr. Wilson
describes one of these nests which he had. He says that it was round
like a cylinder. Do you know what a cylinder is?"

"No, Uncle Philip."

"A smooth round pillar to hold up a porch is a cylinder; my walking-cane
is a cylinder; so is the straight body of a tree. When these are of the
same size all through their whole length, they are perfect cylinders;
and any thing in that shape is a cylinder."

"We understand you, Uncle Philip; a gun-barrel is a cylinder, and there
is a cylinder in your garden."

"What is it?"

"The heavy stone roller that you let us pull over the walks."



"Right. Well, this nest was like a cylinder, about five inches across,
and seven inches long. At the top the bird had worked a level cover, so
as to leave a hole only two inches and a half across; at the bottom it
was round. It was made of flax, tow, hemp, hair, and wool, and was woven
into a complete cloth; it was also tightly sewed through and through
with long horse-hairs, some of which when drawn out measured two feet.
Here is a picture of this nest. In the bottom it had bunches of cows'
hair, and these were also sewed down with horse-hairs. This bird, boys,
is a thief."

"A thief, Uncle Philip! What does it steal?"

"When I say it is a thief, boys, I mean that it takes what does not
belong to it: but it is not a thief as man is. When a man takes
something which belongs to another person, he _knows_ that it is not
his; and therefore he steals: but the poor bird does not know, and that
makes a difference. You asked me what it steals: I will tell you. At
the time for building its nest, it will take whatever suits for that
purpose; and therefore the country women are obliged to watch their
thread that they have put out to bleach: the farmer, too, who has cut
off young grafts from his fruit-trees and tied them up in bundles, must
be careful, or the bird will pull at the string till he gets it off; and
sometimes, when the bunch is not too large, he will fly off with the
whole. In autumn, when the leaves have fallen, you may sometimes see
skeins of silk and hanks of thread hanging about the starling's nest,
but so woven up and entangled in it that they are good for nothing. Now,
boys, before this country was settled by people from Europe, where do
you suppose the starling got silk and thread for his nest?"

"Why, Uncle Philip, are you sure he got them at all?"

"A very sensible question, boys. When you are asked _why_ a thing is so,
it is always well, first to be satisfied that it is so, before you begin
to look for a reason. I have read a story about this very thing: would
you like to hear it?"

"Oh yes, Uncle Philip."

"Well, then, I have read that there were once several philosophers
(I told you what a philosopher is, you know), who were in the habit
of meeting together to put questions to each other, and to make new
discoveries. At one of these meetings, one of them asked the others,
'_Why_ a fish weighed more _in_ the water than he did _out_ of it?'
Several of them gave very wise reasons, as they thought; and all the
reasons were different: so they could not agree. There was among them,
however, a very sensible old gentleman, who listened to them all, but
said nothing. When he went home, he got a fish and weighed it, out of
the water, and wrote down its weight; he then took a bucket of water,
and weighed that; and when he dropped the fish in the bucket, he found
that it increased the weight of the whole, precisely as many pounds as
the fish had weighed out of the water; so he found out that there was
no reason why a fish weighed more in the water than he did out of it,
because it was not true: his weight was the same either in or out of it."

"Ah, Uncle Philip, that is a pleasant story: he was a sensible old
gentleman."

"Yes, boys, he was; and it was sensible in you to ask first whether the
starling _did use_ silk and thread before Europeans came here; and after
that is answered, it is time enough to ask where he got such things. Now
the truth is, that he _did not_ use them until after Europeans brought
them here; because there were no such things in this country: for the
Indians who lived here could not make thread. I think; and I am sure
they could not spin silk: but I will tell you, boys, what it shows us;
and it is that I wish you to notice."

"What is it, Uncle Philip?"

"It is the wisdom of this bird in taking advantage of circumstances. No
doubt he built very good nests long before silk and thread were in the
country; but he had sense enough to know that they were exactly what
suited him, and he used them as soon as he could get them."

"Then, Uncle Philip, you think that the bird has reason?"

"No, boys, I do not: but you have reason, and I have something to say
to you about it. It is this: as God has given you reason, and so made
you better than the poor dumb animals, he expects more from you. That is
fair, is it not?"

"Yes, Uncle Philip; very fair."

"Then what I wish you to remember is this: that you must use your reason
in such way as to glorify God. He gave it to you to learn his will and
his commandments, and to live accordingly. So now you see the things
which our conversations about the animals can teach us. In the first
place, we see the goodness of God; in the second place, we see the
power of God; in the third place, we see the wisdom of God: and we see
in ourselves that God has done more for us than he has done for them,
and therefore we ought to love and serve him: we ought to believe what
he says in his Word; we ought to pray to him for his blessed help; we
ought, _first of all_, to seek the salvation of our souls, through our
Lord Jesus Christ.

"Now, my dear children, to-morrow I must leave home for a few weeks; but
when I come back we will talk together again: and as I am going to see
my nephews, I will get a book which they printed about insects; it is
called the History of Insects,[14]--and I will bring it to you; and some
of the largest boys among you may read it aloud, and I will explain to
you what you cannot understand. If you are pleased with what I have been
telling you, that book will tell you a great deal more."

"Oh, thank you, Uncle Philip. We shall like it very much."

"Farewell, boys."

"Good-by, dear Uncle Philip."


FOOTNOTES:

[12] Myiothera obsoleta of Bonaparte.

[13] Tyrannus intrepidus.

[14] Family Library, No. VIII.--_Publishers._









 

Instruction derivable from common things 
. Extraordinary numbers and varieties of Insects . 

Can be studied in every situation 
, Anecdotes 

Cabinets useful, but not indispensable . * 

Study of Insects does not narrow the mind 
Injuries and benefits paused by Insects . 

Use of names in Natural History .... 
Study of Insects fascinating to youth 

.Anecdote of a litttle girl 

Beauty of Insects ...... 

. Varieties in the economy of Insects . . 

States of Insects ...... 

Insects produced frpm eggs .... 

Larva , Caterpillar, Grub, Maggot . 

, Pupa, Chrysalis, Aurelia, Nymph . 

Ijnago , perfect Insect. ..... . 

 

Structures for protecting Eggs' ...... 

Eggs of Insects can bear great degrees of heat and cold 
Bees compared to our mechanics .... 

Mason- Wasps 

Curious proceedings of one at Lee .... 

Her caution outwitted by a Fly 

Structures of another Mason-Wasp .... 

Her storing of live Caterpillars 

Mason-Bees 

• Nest of one on the wall of Greenwich Park . 

Clay-mine of Mason-Bees at Lee .... 

• Estimate of their labours 

Wall-Mason-Bees of France 

Proceedings of the two-horned Mason-Bee at Lee . 

Structures of Mason-Bees 

Their restless disposition 

Mining-Bees 

Their different proceedings in Britain and in France 



Carpenter-Bees 

Methods of working . 

History of one at Lee 

Violet Carpenter-Bee of France 






Compared with our joiners . 

Elder and Bramble Carpenter-Bees 

Carpenter- Wasps 

Curious cocoon of 

Upholsterer- Bees ... ... 

Poppy-Flower Bee of Largs and of Bercy 
Taste of the little architects in ornament 
Cotton-Gathering- Bee .... 
Rose-Leaf-Cutter Bee .... 
Her method of working .... 
Anecdote of St. Francis Xavier . 







Carder-Bees 

Method of preparing and conveying their materials 

Structure of their nests 

Lapidary-Bees 

Pertinacity in defending their nest 

Humble-Bees 

Structure of their nests 

Social- Wasps 

Nest founded by a single female 
Compared with the Burrowing-Owl . 

Materials rasped off from wood 
Different opinions of Naturalists 
Paper made by Wasps . . . 

Structure of the nest 

Extraordinary number of cells 

Hornet’s nest 

Tree-Wasps’ nests in Ayrshire . 

Rose-shaped Wasps’ nest .... 

Vertical- Wasps’ nest 

Wasp-paper compared with ours 
Card-making Wasp of Cayenne . . . 



Architecture of the Hive-Bee 

Discoveries from Aristomachus to Maraldi and Huber 

Nurse- Bees and Wax- Workers 

Preparation of wax 

Erroneous account by the Abbe la Pluche . . 

Conjectures of Reaumur 

Discovery of John Hunter 

Experiments of M. Huber 

Singular facts by Mr. Wiston 

Dissections by Madlle Jurine and M. Latreille 

Propolis - 

Opinions of old Naturalists .... 

Discovery by Huber 

Various uses of propolis 

Mr. T. A. Knight’s observations .... 
Basket for carrying on the thighs of Bees . . 

Process of loading 

Building of the cells 

Division of labour 


 


Festooned curtain of Wax-Workers • • 

Commencement of the combs . , . . . 

Huber’s history of his experiments 

Secretion of wax 

Foundation of the first cell .... 
Workers extract their own wax . . . 

View of the proceedings obstructed . . 



Form of the cells 

Mathematical problem solved by Bees . . 

Calculated by Maraldi and Koenig . . 

Reasons for the form of the cells . . 

Referred to the form of the Bee 

Experiments of Huber 

Cells commenced in the foundation-wall 

Deepening of the cells 

Polishing by Nurse- Bees ... 

Distance of the combs from each other 
Dr. Barclay’s discovery .... 
Irregularities in their workmanship .... 
Anecdote from Dr. Bevan .... 
Similar anecdote from Huber .... 
Symmetry in the architecture of Bees explained 

Curved combs 

Experiments ofHuber .... 

Size of male cells ...... 

Cells enlarged when honey is plentiful . 

The finishing of the cells 

Varnished with propolis .... 

Strengthened with pissoceros . 

Discovery by Huber 

Cells strengthened by the Bee-grubs . . 

Difficulties explained 

Mistake of an American writer . . 

Curious experiment of Huber . . . 

Wild-Honey-Bees 

Wild-Bees of America, Ireland, Palestine 

Honey-guide of Africa 

Bee-huhting in America .... 



Carpentry of Tree-hoppers (Cicada) 

Mistaken for Grass-hoppers 

Singular cutting instrument of the Tree-hopper 

Double files of 

Their Nests '. 

Saw-Flies 

Their ovipositor ...... 

Structure of 

Comb-toothed rasp, and saw . . . . 

Grooves cut by it in the rose-tree . . 





Leaf-Rolling-Cafer pillars 
Lilac-Leaf-Roller 







Oak-Leaf-Roller • . . 

Rose-Leaf-Roller 
Nettle-Leaf- Roller . 

Method-of proceeding . . 

Probable mistake concerning . 
Sorrel-Leaf- Roller 
Admirable and painted Lady, Butterflies 
Mallow Butterfly of France 
Willow-Leaf-Bundler 
N^st of.Ziczac Caterpillar .. 

Nest of Glanville-Fritillary 
Experiment on gregarious Caterpillars 
Design in rolling leaves 




Habitations formed of detached leaves . 

The Pondweed Tent-Maker 
Chickweed Caterpillar’s nest 
Cypress-spurge Caterpillar’s nest 
Durability of these structures 
Compared with our architecture 
Moss-cell of a Wall-Caterpillar 
Caterpillar of Greenwich Park wall 



Caddis-Worms . . . . ' 

Leaf and reed nests of 
Shell nests of ... 

Stone and sand nests of . ' 

Nest balanced with straws 
Carpenter-Caterpillars .. .. 

Caterpillar of Goat-Moth 
Its winter nest .... 

Singular nest of . . . . 

Nest of the ZEgeria in a poplar 
Paper-nest of the Puss-Moth 
How it escapes from its cell 
Purple-Capricorn-Beetle 
Bark-building Caterpillar of the oak 



Earth-Mason-Caterpillars ... 
Outside walls of their nests 
Caterpillar of Ghost Moth . 
Experiments of Reaumur 
Nests of Ephemera Grubs 
Similar nests in a willow stump 
•Nests of the Cicindela-Beetle 

The AnPLion ' 

-Structure of the Grub 
Formation of its traps 
Reflections upon the economy of Nature 



Clothes-Moth Caterpillars . 

Varieties in the species 






Methods of destroying 





Mode of building . . . . 






Experiments upon .... 




Migrations of . . . . . 


 


Tent-Making Caterpillars . . 





Mode of constructing these 







Experiments upon .... 


•


Tent upon a Nettle-leaf . 










Stone Mason Caterpillars 





Their singular proceedings 





Colony of, at Blackheath . . 





Foundation of their Tents 


 


An attempted robbery 




Muff-shaped Tents . .... 





Their utility . . 














Leaf-Mining Caterpillars . ... 





On the leaf of the Monthly Rose-tree 





On the leaf of the Bramble 





On the leaf of the Primrose 






Vine-leaf Miner . . 







On the leaf of the Alder 


 


Social Leaf-Miners . .... 





Bark-mining Caterpillars .... 









Structures of Crickets 














House-Cricket 


















The Mole-Cricket .... 











The Field-Cricket .... 
















Mode of depositing eggs 












Beetles 
















The Burying-Beetle . . . . 













The Dung-Beetle 








Its cleanliness 
















The Rose-Chafer .... 


 


The Tumble-dung Beetle 














The Necklace-Beetle 





















Architecture of Ants 













Their genuine history begun by Gould 


 


Mason-Ants 














Structures of Turf-Ants 

 


Winter nest of Yellow-Ants . . 







Sort of earth employed in building 




Proceedings of the Brown-Ant 











Raft formed by American Ants 

 


Blind Ants 














Night proceedings of Ants 

 


Proceedings during rain . . . 













Experiments . 












History of a labouring Ant, by M. Huber 














Glazed Artificial Formicaries . 




Section of a Mason-Ant’s nest . 













Experiments by J. R. . , . 





 

Structures of the Wood-Ants, or Pismires 
Materials employed .... 
Coping of their nest 
Interior structure . . , . 

Glazed Formicary for experiments 
Their proceedings at night-fall . . 

Carpenter-Ants 

Emmets, or Jet Ants . 

Their galleries in Trees ... 
Extremely populous colony at BroGkley 
Dusky-Ants ... ... 

Foreign Ants ... . . .. .. 

Sugar-Ants of the West Indies 





Structures of White-Ants, or Termites . 

Their extraordinary comparative height . 
Their mining operations .... 

The Warrior (Termes bellicosus) .... 

Used as delicate food 

Commencement of their nests .... 

Royal chamber 

Nurseries . . . . . . . . 

Galleries and covert ways . . . 

Turret-building White-Ants 

Singular form of their nests . . 

White-Ants of trees and timber 

Death-Watch 



Spinning-Caterpillars ..... . . . 

Manifold advantages of spinning 
Structure of .their, legs and feet .. 

Side spiracles for breathing 
Internal structure ..... 
Structure of the silk-tube . ... 

Mode" of spinning described by La Pluche 
Silk-Worms . : . • 

Their transformations 

How they make their exit from the cocoons 
Parts* used in our manufactures 
History of th'e introduction of silk 
Varieties and species of silk-worms 
Emperor-Moth . . . . ... 

Ingenious contrivance of the cocoon 
Spinning-Caterpillars continued 

Elastic cocoon of Tortrix chlorana 

Slender covering of the Gypsy-Moth 

Cocoon of the Cream-spot Tiger-Moth . 

Experiment with the Dock- Weevil 

Nest of Puss-Moth, with cocoons of Ichneumons 




 



Cocoon of th.e Horned Mason-Bee 
Experiment with Eriogaster lanestris 
Social Spinning-Caterpillars . . . 

Winter nest of the Brown-tail Moth 
Winter nests of the Golden-tail Moth 
Pendulous leaf nests, from Bonnet . 
Nest of Processionary Caterpillars . 







Structures of Spiders . . , 

Spiders not properly insects, and why 
Apparatus for spinning 
Extraordinary number of spinnerules 
Attachment of the end of a thread 
Shooting of the Lines of Spiders 

1. Opinions of Redi, Swammerdam, and Kirby 

2. Lister, Kirby, and White 

3. ¦— La Pluche and Bingley 

4. D’lsjonval, Murray, and Bowman 

5. Experiments of Mr. Blackwall 
His account of the ascent of gossamer 

6. Experiments by J. R. . 

Thread supposed to go off double . . 

Subsequent experiments ... 

Nests, Webs, and Nets of Spiders 
Elastic satin nest of a Spider 
Evelyn’s account of hunting Spiders 
Labyrinthic Spider’s nest . . . 

Erroneous account of the House Spider . 
Geometric Spiders .... 

Mason-Spiders 

Ingenious door with a hinge . 

Nest from the West Indies, with spring hinge 
Raft-building Spider ...... 

Diving Water-Spider ..... 

Observations of M. Clerck ... 
Cleanliness of Spiders ..... 

Structure of their claws .... 

Fanciful account of them patting their webs 
Proceedings of a Spider in a steam-boat . 



Structures of Gall-Flies . . . - . 

Berry-gall of the oak-leaf, &c. 

Ingenious mechanism of the ovipositor 
Opinions of Naturalists as to the cause of Galls 

Bedeguar of the rose 

Artichoke-gall of the oak .... 
Leafy-gall of Dyer’s broom .... 

Rose-willow 

Rose-hawthorn 

Woolly-gall of the oak .... 

Experiments with the Flies .... 

Oak-apples ....... 

Root-galls of the oak .... 



















 


Woody-gall of the willow 







Oak currant-galls . . . 













Weevil-Galls 






Weevil-gall of the hawthorn 





Anbury on the roots of cabbages, &c. . 






Semi-Galls of Aphides .... 












Mountain-ash leaf-galls 






Poplar semi-galls of the cottony aphis 




Leaf-rolling Aphides 







Leaf of the currant-bush thus altered 





Shoot of the lime-tree thus convoluted 







Pseudo-Galls 












Pseudo-gall of the bramble 







hawthorn 





Scotch fir 



















Animal-Galls 










Enthusiasm of M. Reaumur for study 







Ovipositor of Breeze Flies 





Opinion of Mr. Bracey Clark on its use 







Effects produced by the fly upon cattle 





Observations of Linnaeus on the Rein-deer Breeze-Fly 






Opinion of Kirby and Spence . 







Observations of Mr. B. Clark 







Hatching of the egg .... 





Bumps, or wurbles, thence produced 






Communication of the grub with the air 





Final cause of these bumps . 







The Zimb (Breeze -fly?) of Africa . 


 


Human Breeze-fly .... 














Grub parasite in the Garden-Snail 











INSECT ARCHITECTURE. 


 

It can never be too strongly impressed upon a mind 
anxious for the acquisition of knowledge, that the 
commonest things by which we are surrounded are 
deserving of minute and careful attention. The 
most profound investigations of Philosophy are 
necessarily connected with the ordinary circum- 
stances of our being, and of the world in which 
our every-day life is spent. With regard to our own 
existence, the pulsation of the heart, the act of respi- 
ration, the voluntary movement of our limbs, the 
condition of sleep, are among the most ordinary 
operations of our nature ; and yet how long were the 
wisest of men struggling with dark and bewildering 
speculations before they could offer anything like a 
satisfactory solution of these phenomena, and how 
far are we still from an accurate and complete know- 
ledge of them ! The science of Meteorology, which 
attempts to explain to us the philosophy of matters 
constantly before our eyes, as dew, mist, and rain, 
is dependent for its illustrations upon a know- 
ledge of the most complicated facts, such as the 
influence of heat and electricity upon the air ; and 
that knowledge is at present so imperfect, that even 
these common occurrences of the weather, which 









men have been observing 1 and reasoning upon for 
ages, are by no means satisfactorily explained, or 
reduced to the precision that every science should 
aspire to. Yet, however difficult it may be entirely 
to comprehend the phenomena we daily witness, 
every thing in nature is full of instruction. Thus-' 
the humblest flower of the field, although, to one 
whose curiosity has not been excited, and whose un- 
derstanding has, therefore, remained uninformed, it 
may appear worthless and contemptible, is valuable 
to the botanist, not only with regard to its place in 
the arrangement of this portion of the Creator’s 
works, but as it leads his mind forward to the con- 
sideration of those beautiful provisions for the sup- 
port of vegetable life, which it is the part of the phy- 
siologist to study and to admire. 

This train of reasoning is peculiarly applicable to 
the economy of insects. They constitute a very large 
and interesting part of the animal kingdom. They are 
everywhere about us. The spider weaves his curious 
web in our houses ; the caterpillar constructs his silken 
cell in our gardens ; the wasp that hovers over our 
food has a nest not far removed from us, which she 
has assisted to build with the nicest art ; the beetle 
that crawls across our path is also an ingenious and 
laborious mechanic, and has some curious instincts to 
exhibit to those who will feel an interest in watching 
his movements ; and the moth that eats into our 
clothes has something to plead for our pity, for he 
came, like us, naked into the world, and he has de- 
stroyed our garments, not in malice or wantonness, 
but that he may clothe himself with the same wool 
which we have stripped from the sheep. An obser- 
vation of the habits of these little creatures is full of 
valuable lessons, which the abundance of the examples 
has no tendency to diminish. The more such observa- 
tions are multiplied, the more are we led forward to the 







freshest and the most delightful parts of knowledge ; 
the more do we learn to estimate rightly the extraor- 
dinary provisions and most abundant resources of a 
creative Providence ; and the better do we appreciate 
our own relations with all the infinite varieties of 
Nature, and our dependence, in common with the 
ephemeron that flutters its little hour in the summer 
sun, upon that Being in whose scheme of existence 
the humblest as well as the highest creature has its 
destined purposes. “ If you speak of a stone,” says 
St. Basil, one of the Fathers of the Church, “if you 
speak of a fly, a gnat, or a bee, your conversation 
will be a sort of demonstration of His power whose 
hand formed them ; for the wisdom of the workman 
is commonly perceived in that which is of little size. 
He who has stretched out the heavens, and dug up 
the bottom of the sea, is also He who has pierced a 
passage through the sting of the bee for the ejection 
of its poison.” 

If it be granted that making discoveries is one of 
the most satisfactory of human pleasures, then we may 
without hesitation affirm, that the study of insects is 
one of the most delightful branches of natural his- 
tory, for it affords peculiar facilities for its pur- 
suit. These facilities are found in the almost inex- 
haustible variety which insects present to the entomolo- 
gical observer. As a proof of the extraordinary num- 
ber of insects within a limited field of observation, Mr. 
Stephens informs us, that in the short space of forty 
days, between the middle of June and the beginning 
of August, he found, in the vicinity of Ripley, speci- 
mens of above two thousand four hundred species 
of insects, exclusive of caterpillars and grubs, — a 
number amounting to nearly a fourth of the insects 
ascertained to be indigenous. He further tells us, 
that among these specimens, although the ground 
had, in former seasons, been frequently explored, 





there were about one hundred species altogether new, 
and not before in any collection which he had in- 
spected, including several new genera ; while many 
insects reputed scarce were in considerable plenty*. 
The localities of insects are, to a certain extent, con- 
stantly changing ; and thus the study of them has, 
in this circumstance, as well as in their manifold 
abundance, a source of perpetual variety. Insects, 
also, which are plentiful one year, frequently become 
scarce, or disappear altogether, the next — a fact 
strikingly illustrated by the uncommon abundance, 
in 1826 and 1827, of the seven-spot lady-bird (Coc- 
cinella septempunctata ), in the vicinity of London, 
though during the two succeeding summers this 
insect was comparatively scarce, while the small two- 
spot lady-bird ( Coccinella bipunctata ) was plen- 
tiful. 

There is, perhaps, no situation in which the lover 
of nature and the observer of animal life may not 
find opportunities for increasing his store of facts. It 
is told of a state prisoner under a cruel and rigorous 
despotism, that when he was excluded from all com- 
merce with mankind, and was shut out from books, 
he took an interest and found consolation in the visits 
of a spider ; and there is no improbability in the 
story. The operations of that persecuted creature 
are among the most extraordinary exhibitions of me- 
chanical ingenuity ; and a daily watching of the 
workings of its instinct would beget admiration in 
a rightly constituted mind. The poor prisoner had 
abundant leisure for the speculations in which the 
spider’s web would enchain his understanding. We 
have all of us, at one period or other of our lives, been 
struck with some singular evidence of contrivance in 
the economy of insects, which we have seen with our 

* Stephens’s Illustrations, vol. i., p. 72, note. 






own eyes. Want of leisure, and probably want of 
knowledge, have prevented us from following up the 
curiosity which for a moment was excited. And yet 
some such accident has made men Naturalists, in the 
highest meaning of the term. Bonnet, evidently 
speaking of himself, says, “ I knew a Naturalist, 
who, when he was seventeen years of age, having 
heard of the operations of the ant-lion, began by 
doubting them. He had no rest till he had examined 
into them ; and he verified them, he admired them, 
he discovered new facts, and soon became the disciple 
and the friend of the Pliny of France*” (Reaumur.) 
It is not the happy fortune of many to be able to de- 
vote themselves exclusively to the study of nature, 
unquestionably the most fascinating of human em- 
ployments ; but almost every one may acquire suffi- 
cient knowledge to be able to derive a high grati- 
fication from beholding the more common operations 
of animal life. His materials for contemplation are 
always before him. Some weeks ago we made an 
excursion to West Wood, near Shooter’s Hill, ex- 
pressly for the purpose of observing the insects we 
might meet with in the wood ; but we had not got far 
among the bushes, when heavy rain came on. We 
immediately sought shelter among the boughs of 
some thick underwood, composed of oak, birch, and 
aspen ; but we could not meet with a single insect, 
not even a gnat or a fly, sheltered under the leaves. 
Upon looking more narrowly, however, into the 
bushes which protected us, we soon found a variety 
of interesting objects of study. The oak abounded 
in galls, several of them quite new to us ; while the 
leaves of the birch and the aspen exhibited the cu- 
rious serpentine paths of the minute mining cater- 
pillars. When we had exhausted the narrow field of 

* Contemplation de la Nature, part ii. ch. 42. 





observation immediately around us, we found that 
we could considerably extend it, by breaking a few of 
the taller branches near us, and then examining their 
leaves at leisure. In this manner two hours glided 
quickly and pleasantly away, by which time the rain 
had nearly ceased ; and though we had been dis- 
appointed in our wish to ramble through the wood, 
we did not return without adding a few interesting 
facts to our previous knowledge of insect economy *. 

It will appear then, from the preceding observations, 
that cabinets and collections, though undoubtedly of 
the highest use, are by no means indispensable, as 
the observer of nature may find inexhaustible sub- 
jects of study in every garden and in every hedge. 
Nature has been profuse enough in affording us 
materials for observation, when we are prepared to 
look about us with that keenness of inquiry, which 
curiosity, the first step in the pursuit of knowledge, 
will unquestionably give. Nor shall we be dis- 
appointed in the gratification which is thus with- 
in our reach. Were it no more indeed than a source 
of agreeable amusement, the study of insects comes 
strongly recommended to the notice of the well-edu- 
cated. The pleasures of childhood are generally 
snpposed to be more exquisite, and to contain less 
alloy, than those of riper years ; and if so, it must 
be because then every thing appears new and dressed 
in fresh beauties: while in manhood, and old age, 
whatever has frequently recurred begins to wear the 
tarnish of decay. The study of nature atfords us a 
succession of “ ever new delights,’* such as charmed 
us in childhood, when everything had the attractions 
of novelty and beauty; and thus the mind of the 
naturalist may have its own fresh and vigorous 

* The original observations in tins volume which are marked 
by the initials J. R., are by J. Rennie, A.M., A.L.S., Lee, Kent. 







thoughts, even while the infirmities of age weigh 
down the body. 

It has been objected to the study of insects, as 
well as to that of Natural History in general, 
that it tends to withdraw the mind from subjects 
of higher moment ; that it cramps and narrows 
the range of thought ; and that it destroys, or 
at least weakens, the finer creations of the fancy. 
Now, we should allow this objection in its fullest 
extent, and even be disposed to carry it further 
than is usually done, if the collecting of specimens 
only, or, as the French expressively call them, chips 
(echantillons), be called a study. But the mere col- 
lector is not, and cannot be, justly considered as a 
naturalist ; and, taking the term naturalist in its en- 
larged sense, we can adduce some distinguished in- 
stances in opposition to the objection. Rousseau, for 
example, was passionately fond of the Linnaean botany, 
even to the driest minutiae of its technicalities ; and 
yet it does not appear to have cramped his mind, or 
impoverished his imagination. If Rousseau, how- 
ever, be objected to as an eccentric being, from 
whose pursuits no fair inference can be drawn, we 
give the illustrious example of Charles James Fox, 
and may add the names of our distinguished poets. 
Goldsmith, Thomson, Gray, and Darwin, who were 
all enthusiastic naturalists. We wish particularly to 
insist upon the example of Gray, because he was 
very partial to the study of insects. It may be new 
to many of our readers, who are familiar with the 
Elegy in a Country Church-yard, to be told that 
its author was at the pains to turn the characteris- 
tics of the Linnaean orders of insects into Latin 
hexameters, the manuscript of which is still preserved 
in his interleaved copy of the “ Systema Naturae.” 
Further, to use the somewhat exaggerated words 
of Kirby and Spence, whose work on Entomology 
is one of the most instructive and pleasing books on 







the science, “ Aristotle among the Greeks, and Pliny 
the Elder among the Romans, may be denominated 
the fathers of Natural History, as well as the greatest 
philosophers of their day ; yet both these made 
insects a principal object of their attention : and in 
more recent times, if we look abroad, what names 
greater than those of Redi, Malpighi, Vallisnieri, 
Swammerdam, Leeuwenhoek, Reaumur, Linnaeus, 
De Geer, Bonnet, and the Hubers ? and at home, 
what philosophers have done more honour to their 
country and to human nature than Ray, Willoughby, 
Lister, and Derham ? Yet all these made the study 
of insects one of their most favourite pursuits*.” 

And yet this study has been considered, by 
those who have superficially examined the subject, 
as belonging to a small order of minds ; and the 
satire of Pope has been indiscriminately applied 
to all collectors, while, in truth, it only touches 
those who mistake the means of knowledge for 
the end : — 

“ O ! would the sons of men once think their eyes 
And reason given them but to study Flies ! 

See Nature in some partial, narrow shape, 

And let the Author of the whole escape; 

Learn but to trifle ; or, who most observe, 

To wonder at their Maker, not to servef.” 

Thus exclaims the Goddess of Dulness, sweeping 
into her net all those who study nature in detail. 
But if the matter were rightly appreciated, it would 
be evident that no part of the works of the Creator 
can be without the deepest interest to an inquiring 
mind ; and that a portion of creation, which exhibits 
such extraordinary manifestations of design as is 
shewn by insects, must have attractions for the very 
highest understanding. 

An accurate knowledge of the properties of insects 

* Introduction to Entomology, vol. i. 
f Dunciad, book iv. 






is of great importance to man, merely with relation to 
his own comfort and security. The injuries which they 
inflict upon us are extensive and complicated ; and the 
remedies which we attempt, by the destruction of 
those creatures, both insects, birds, and quadrupeds, 
who keep the ravagers in check, are generally ag- 
gravations of the evil, because they are directed by 
an ignorance of the economy of nature. The little 
knowledge which we have of the modes by which 
insects may be impeded in their destruction of much 
that is valuable to us, has probably proceeded from 
our contempt of their individual insignificance. The 
security of property has ceased to be endangered by 
quadrupeds of prey, and yet our gardens are ravaged 
by aphides and caterpillars. It is somewhat startling 
to affirm that the condition of the human race is 
seriously injured by these petty annoyances ; but it 
is perfectly true that the art and industry of man have 
not yet been able to overcome the collective force, 
the individual perseverance, and the complicated 
machinery of destruction which insects employ. A 
small ant, according to a most careful and philo- 
sophical observer, opposes almost invincible obstacles 
to the progress of civilization in many parts of the 
equinoctial zone. These animals devour paper and 
parchment ; they destroy every book and manu- 
script. Many provinces of Spanish America can- 
not, in consequence, shew a written document of a 
hundred years’ existence. “ What developement,” he 
adds, “ can the civilization of a people assume, if 
therej be nothing to connect the present with the 
past — if the depositories of human knowledge must 
be constantly renewed — if the monuments of genius 
and wisdom cannot be transmitted to posterity*?” 
Again, there are beetles which deposit their larvae 



* Humboldt, Voyage, lib, vii., ch. 20, 







in trees, in such formidable numbers, that whole 
forests perish, beyond the power of remedy. The 
pines of the Hartz have thus been destroyed to an 
enormous extent; and in North America, at one 
place in South Carolina, at least ninety trees in 
every hundred, upon a tract of two thousand acres, 
were swept away by a small, black, winged bug. And 
yet, according to Wilson, the historian of American 
birds, the people of the United States were in the habit 
of destroying the red-headed woodpecker, the great 
enemy of these insects, because he occasionally spoilt 
an apple*. The same delightful writer, and true natu- 
ralist, speaking of the labours of the ivory-billed wood- 
pecker, says, “ would it be believed that the larvae of 
an insect, or fly, no larger than a grain of rice, should 
silently, and in one season, destroy some thousand 
acres of pine trees, many of them from two to three 
feet in diameter, and a hundred and fifty feet high ? 
In some places the whole woods, as far as you can 
see around you, are dead, stripped of the bark, their 
wintry-looking arms and bare trunks bleaching in 
the sun, and tumbling in ruins before every blast f.” 
The subterraneous larva of a species of beetle ( Zabrus 
gibbus ) has often caused a complete failure of the 
seed-corn, as in the district of Halle in 1812 The 
corn-weevil, which extracts the flour from grain, 
leaving the husk behind, will destroy the contents of 
the largest storehouses in a very short period. The 
wire-worm, and the turnip-fly, are dreaded by every 
farmer. The ravages of the locust are too well known 
not to be at once recollected, as an example of the 
formidable collective power of the insect race. The 
white ants of tropical countries sweep away whole 
villages, with as much certainty as a fire or an inun- 

* Amer. Ornith., i., p. 144. f lb., iii.,p. 21. J Blumenbach. 







elation ; and ships even have been destroyed by these 
indefatigable republics. Our own docks and em- 
bankments have been threatened by such minute 
ravagers. 

The enormous injuries which insects cause to man 
may thus be held as one reason for ceasing to consider 
the study of them as an insignificant pursuit 5 for 
a knowledge of their structure, their food, their 
enemies, and their general habits, may lead, as it 
often has led, to the means of guarding against their 
injuries. At the same time we derive from them 
both direct and indirect benefits. The honey of the bee, 
the dye of the cochineal, and the web of the silk worm, 
the advantages of which are obvious, may well be 
balanced against the destructive propensities of in- 
sects which are offensive to man. But a philosophi- 
cal study of natural history will teach us, that the 
direct benefits which insects confer upon us are even 
less important than their general uses in maintaining 
the economy of the world. The mischiefs which 
result to us from the rapid increase and the activity 
of insects, are merely results of the very principle by 
which they confer upon us numberless indirect ad- 
vantages. Forests are swept away by minute flies ; 
but the same agencies relieve us from that extreme 
abundance of vegetable matter, which would render 
the earth uninhabitable, were this excess not periodi- 
cally destroyed. In hot countries, the great business 
of removing corrupt animal matter, which the vulture 
and the hyaena imperfectly perform, is effected with 
certainty and speed by the myriads of insects that 
spring from the eggs deposited in every carcass, by 
some fly seeking therein the means of life for her 
progeny. Destruction ahd reproduction, the great 
laws of Nature, are carried on very greatly through 
tlie instrumentality of insects ; and the same princi- 







pie regulates even the increase of particular species 
of insects themselves. When aphides are so abun- 
dant that we know not how to escape their ravages, 
flocks of lady-birds instantly cover our fields and 
gardens to destroy them. Such considerations as 
these are thrown out to shew that the subject of 
insects has a great philosophical importance — and 
what portion of the works of Nature has not? 
The habits of all God’s creatures, whether they are 
noxious, or harmless, or beneficial, are worthy 
objects of our study. If they affect ourselves, in 
our health or our possessions, whether for good or 
for evil, an additional impulse is naturally given to 
our desire to attain a knowledge of their properties. 
Such studies form one of the most interesting occu- 
pations which can engage a rational and inquisitive- 
mind; and, perhaps, none of the employments of 
human life are more dignified than the investigation 
and survey of the workings and the ways of Nature 
in the minutest of her productions. 

The exercise of that habit of observation which 
can alone make a naturalist — “ an out-of-door natu- 
ralist,” as Daines Barrington called himself — is well 
calculated to strengthen even the most practical and 
merely useful powers of the mind. One of the most 
valuable mental acquirements is the power of discri- 
minating among things which differ in many minute 
points, but whose general similarity of appearance 
usually deceives the common observer into a belief of 
their identity. Entomology, in this point of view, is a 
study peculiarly adapted for youth. According to our 
experience, it is exceedingly difficult for persons 
arrived at manhood to acquire this power of discri- 
mination ; but in early life, a little care on the part of 
the parent or teacher will render it comparatively easy. 
In this study the knowledge of things should go 
along with that of words. “ If names perish,” says 







Linnaeus, “ the knowledge of things perishes also*;” 
and without names, how can any one communicate 
to another the knowledge he has acquired relative to 
any particular fact, either of physiology, habit, utility, 
or locality? On the other hand, mere catalogue 
learning is as much to be rejected as the loose 
generalizations of the despisers of classification and 
nomenclature. To name a plant, or an insect, or a 
bird, or a quadruped rightly, is one step towards an 
accurate knowledge of it ; but it is not the knowledge 
itself. It is the means, and not the end, in natural 
history, as in every other science. 

If the bias of opening curiosity be properly di- 
rected, there is not any branch of natural history so 
fascinating to youth as the study of insects. It is, 
indeed, a common practice in many families, to 
teach children, from the earliest infancy, to treat the 
greater number of insects as if they were venomous 
and dangerous, and, of course, meriting to be de- 
stroyed, or, at least, avoided with horror. Associa- 
tions are by this means linked with the very ap- 
pearance of insects, which become gradually more 
inveterate with advancing years ; provided, as most 
frequently happens, the same system be persisted in, 
of avoiding or destroying almost every insect which 
is unlucky enough to attract observation. How much 
rational amusement and innocent pleasure is thus 
thoughtlessly lost ; and how many disagreeable feel- 
ings are thus created, in the most absurd manner! 
“ In order to shew,” says a writer in the Magazine 
of Natural History, “ that the study, or (if the word 
be disliked) the observation of insects is peculiarly 
fascinating to children, even in their early infancy, 
we may refer to what we have seen in the family of a 
friend, who is partial to this, as well as to all the 

* Nomina si pereant ; peril et coguitio rerum. 





departments of natural history. Our friend’s children, 
a boy and a girl, were taught, from the moment they 
could distinguish insects, to treat them as objects of 
interest and curiosity, and not to be afraid even of 
those which wore the most repulsive appearance. 
The little girl, for example, when just beginning to 
walk alone, encountered one day a large staphylinus 
( Goerius oleins? Stephens ; vulgo, the devil’s coach- 
horse), which she fearlessly seized, and did not quit 
her hold, though the insect grasped one of her fingers 
in his formidable jaws. The mother, who was by, 
knew enough of the insect to be rather alarmed for 
the consequences, though she prudently concealed 
her feelings from the child. She did well ; for the 
insect was not strong enough to break the skin, and 
the child took no notice of its attempts to bite her 
finger. A whole series of disagreeable associations 
with this formidable-looking family of insects was 
thus averted, at the very moment when a different 
mode of acting on the part of the mother would have 
produced the contrary effect. For more than two 
years after this occurrence, the little girl and her 
brother assisted in adding numerous specimens to 
their father’s collection, without the parents ever 
having had cause, from any accident, to repent of 
their employing themselves in this manner. The 
sequel of the little girl’s history strikingly illustrates 
the position for which we contend. The child hap- 
pened to be sent to a relative in the country, where 
she was not long in having carefully instilled into 
her mind all the usual antipathies against ‘ every- 
thing that creepeth on the earth and though she 
afterwards returned to her paternal home, no persua- 
sion nor remonstrance could ever again persuade her 
to touch a common beetle, much less a staphylinus, 
with its tail turned up in a threatening attitude, and its 
formidable jaws ready extended lor attack or defence.” 







We do not wish that children should be encouraged 
to expose themselves to danger, in their encounters 
with insects. They should be taught to avoid those 
few which are really noxious — to admire all — to 
injure none. 

The various beauty of insects — their glittering 
colours, their graceful forms — supplies an inexhaus- 
tible source of attraction. Even the most formidable 
insects, both in appearance and reality, — the dragon- 
fly, which is perfectly harmless to man, and the wasp, 
whose sting every human being almost instinctively 
shuns, — are splendid in their appearance, and are 
painted with all the brilliancy of natural hues. It 
has been remarked, that the plumage of tropical 
birds is not superior in vivid colouring to what may 
be observed in the greater number of butterflies and 
moths *. “ See ! ” exclaims Linnaeus, “ the large, 

elegant painted wings of the butterfly, four in num- 
ber, covered with delicate feathery scales! With these 
it sustains itself in the air a whole day, rivalling the 
flight of birds and the brilliancy of the peacock. 
Consider this insect through the wonderful progress 
of its life, — how different is the first period of its 
being from the second, and both from the parent 
insect ! Its changes are an inexplicable enigma to 
us : we see a green caterpillar, furnished with sixteen 
feet, feeding upon the leaves of a plant ; this is 
changed into a chrysalis, smooth, of golden lustre, 
hanging suspended to a fixed point, without feet, and 
subsisting without food ; this insect again undergoes 
another transformation, acquires wings, and six feet, 
and becomes a gay butterfly, sporting in the air, and 
living by suction upon the honey of plants. What 
has Nature produced more worthy of our admiration 
than such an animal coming upon the stage of the 



* Miss Jermyn’s Butterfly Collector, p. 11. 





 



world, and playing its part there under so many dif- 
ferent masks ? ” The ancients were so struck with 
the transformations of the butterfly, and its revival 
from a seeming temporary death, as to have consi- 
dered it an emblem of the soul, the Greek word 
signifying both the soul and a butterfly ; and 
it is for this reason that we find the butterfly intro- 
duced into their allegorical sculptures as an emblem 
of immortality. Trifling, therefore, and perhaps con- 
temptible, as to the unthinking may seem the study 
of a butterfly, yet when we consider the art and me- 
chanism displayed in so minute a structure, — the 
fluids circulating in vessels so small as almost to 
escape the sight — the beauty of the wings and 
covering — and the manner in which each part is 
adapted for its peculiar functions, — we cannot but 
be struck with wonder and admiration, and allow, 
with Paley, that “ the production of beauty was as 
much in the Creator’s mind in painting a butterfly 
as in giving symmetry to the human form.” 

A collection of insects is to the true naturalist what 
a collection of medals is to the accurate student of 
history. The mere collector, who looks only to the 
shining wings of the one, or the green rust of the 
other, derives little knowledge from his pursuit. But 
the cabinet of the entomologist becomes rich in the 
most interesting subjects of contemplation, when 
he regards it in the genuine spirit of scientific 
inquiry. What, for instance, can be so delightful 
as to examine the wonderful variety of structure in 
this portion of the creation ; and, above all, to trace 
the beautiful gradations by which one species runs 
into another. Their differences are so minute, that an 
unpractised eye would proclaim their identity ; and 
yet, when the species are separated, and not very 
distantly, they become visible even to the common 
observer. It is in examinations such as these that 







the naturalist finds a delight of the highest order. 
While it is thus one of the legitimate objects of his 
study to attend to minute ditferences of structure, 
form, and colouring, he is not less interested in the in- 
vestigation of habits and economy ; and in this respect 
the insect world is inexhaustibly rich. We find herein 
examples of instinct to parallel those of all the larger 
animals, whether they are solitary or social ; and 
innumerable others besides, altogether unlike those 
manifested in the superior departments of animated 
nature. These instincts have various directions, and 
are developed in a more or less striking manner to 
our senses, according to the force of the motive by 
which they are governed. Some of their instincts 
have for their object the preservation of insects from 
external attack ; some have reference to procuring' 
food, and involve many remarkable stratagems ; 
some direct their social economy, and regulate the 
condition under which they live together either in 
monarchies or republics, their colonizations, and their 
migrations : but the most powerful instinct which 
belongs to insects has regard to the preservation of 
their species. We find, accordingly, that as the ne- 
cessity for this preservation is of the utmost importance 
in the economy of nature, so for this especial object 
many insects, whose offspring, whether in the egg or 
the larva state, are peculiarly exposed to danger, 
are endued with an almost miraculous foresight, and 
with an ingenuity, perseverance, and unconquerable 
industry, for the purpose of avoiding those dangers, 
which are not to be paralleled even by the most singu- 
lar efforts of human contrivance. The same ingenuity 
which is employed for protecting either eggs, or ca- 
terpillars and grubs, or pupae and chrysalides, is also 
exercised by many insects for their own preservation 
against the changes of temperature to which they are 
exposed, or against their natural enemies. Many 





species employ those contrivances during the period 
of their hybernation, or winter-sleep. For all these 
purposes some dig holes in the earth, and form them 
into cells; others build nests of extraneous substances, 
such as bits of wood and leaves ; others roll up leaves 
into cases, which they close with the most curious 
art ; others build a house of mud, and line it with 
the cotton of trees, or the petals of the most delicate 
flowers ; others construct cells, of secretions from 
their own bodies ; others form cocoons, in which 
they undergo their transformation ; and others dig 
subterraneous galleries, which, in complexity of ar- 
rangement, in solidity, and in complete adaptation to 
their purposes, vie with the cities of civilized man. 
The contrivances by which insects effect these ob- 
jects have been accurately observed and minutely de- 
scribed, by patient and philosophical inquirers, who 
knew that such employments of the instinct with 
which each species is endowed by its Creator offered 
the most valuable and instructive lessons, and opened 
to them a wide field of the most delightful study. 
The construction of their habitations is certainly 
among the most remarkable peculiarities in the 
economy of insects ; and it is of this subject that we 
propose to treat under the general name, which is 
sufficiently applicable to our purpose, of Insect 
Architecture. 







In the descriptions which we shall give of Insect 
Architecture, we shall employ as few technical words 
as possible ; and such as we cannot well avoid, we 
shall explain in their places : but, since our subject 
chiefly relates to the reproduction of insects, it may 
be useful to many readers to introduce here a brief 
description of the changes which they undergo. 

* It was of old believed that insects were produced 
spontaneously by putrefying substances ; and Virgil 
gives the details of a process for creating a swarm 
of bees out of the carcase of a bull : but Redi, a cele- 
brated Italian naturalist, proved by rigid experiments 
that they are always, in such cases, hatched from eggs 
previously laid. Most insects, indeed, lay eggs, though 
some few are viviparous, and some, like serpents, 
propagate both ways. The eggs of insects are very 
various in form, and seldom shaped like those of 
birds. We have here figured those of several species, 
as they appear under the microscope. 




Eggs of Insects, — Magnified. 







When an insect first issues from the egg, it is called 
by naturalists larva , and, popularly, a caterpillar, a 
grub, or a maggot. The distinction, in popular lan- 
guage, seems to be, that caterpillars are produced 
from the eggs of moths or butterflies ; grubs, from 
the eggs of beetles, bees, wasps, &c. ; and maggots 
(which are without feet) from blow-flies, house-flies, 
cheese-flies, &c., though this is not very rigidly ad- 
hered to in common parlance. Maggots are also 
sometimes called worms, as in the instance of the 
meal-worm ; but the common earth-worm is not a 
larva, nor is it by modern naturalists ranked among 
insects. 

Larvae are remarkably small at first, but grow 
rapidly. The full-grown caterpillar of the goat-moth 
( Cossus ligniperda ) is thus seventy-two thousand 
times heavier than when it issues from the egg ; and 




Larvae, Grubs, Caterpillars, or Maggots. 








the maggot of the blow-fly is, in twenty-four hours, 
one hundred and fifty-five times heavier than at its 
birth. Some larvae have feet, others are without: 
none have wings. They cannot propagate. They feed 
voraciously on coarse substances ; and as they increase 
in size, which they do very rapidly, they cast their skins 
three or four times. In defending themselves from 
injury, and in preparing for their change by the con- 
struction of secure abodes, they manifest great inge- 
nuity and mechanical skill. The figures on the pre- 
ceding page, exemplify various forms of insects in this 
stage of their existence. 

When larvae are full grown, they cast their skins 
for the last time, undergo a complete change of form, 
and, with a few exceptions, cease to eat, and remain 
nearly motionless. When an insect, after this change, 
does not lose its legs, or continues to eat and move, 
it is popularly called a Nymph ; and when the inner 
skin of the larva is converted into a membranous or 
leathery covering, which wraps the insect closely up 
like a mummy, it is termed Pupa , from its resem- 




Pupce, or Chrysalides. 



blance to an infant in swaddling bands. From the 
pupae of many of the butterflies appearing gilt as if 







with gold, the Greeks called them Chrysalides , and 
the Romans Aur elite , and hence naturalists frequently 
call a pupa, chrysalis , even when it is not gilt. We 
shall see, as we proceed, the curious contrivances re- 
sorted to for protecting insects in this helpless state. 

After a certain time, the insect which has re- 
mained in its pupa-case, like a mass of jelly without 
shape, is gradually preparing for its final change, 
when it takes the form of a perfect insect. This 
state was called by Linnaeus, Imago , because the 
insect, having thrown off its mask, becomes a per- 
fect image of its species. Of some, this last por- 
tion of their existence is very short, others live 




Insects in the Imago or perfect state. 







through a year, and some exist for longer periods. 
They feed lightly, and never increase in size. The 
chief object of all is to perpetuate their species, after 
which the greater number quickly die. It is in this 
state that they exercise those remarkable instincts for 
the preservation of their race, which are exhibited in 
their preparations for the shelter of their eggs, and 
the nourishment of their larvae. The foregoing are 
examples of insects in the imago , or perfect state. 







STRUCTURES FOR PROTECTING EGGS. — MASON-WASPS ; 

mason-bees; mining-bees. 

The provisions which are made by the different 
species of’ insects for protecting’ their eggs, appear in 
many cases to be admirably proportioned to the kind 
of danger and destruction to which they may be ex- 
posed. The eggs themselves, indeed, are not so liable 
to depredation and injury as the young brood hatched 
from them; for, like the seeds of plants, they are capa- 
ble of withstanding greater degrees both of heat and 
cold than the insects which produce them. According 
to the experiments of Spallanzani, the eggs of frogs 
that had been exposed to various degrees of artificial 
heat, were scarcely altered in their productive powers 
by a temperature of 111° of Fahrenheit, but they 
became corrupted after 133°. He tried the same ex- 
periment upon tadpoles and frogs, and found they 
all died at 1 1 1°. Silk-worms died at a temperature 
of 10S°, while their eggs did not entirely cease to 
be fertile till 144°. The larvae of flesh-flies perished, 
while the eggs of the same species continued fertile, 
at about the same comparative degrees of heat as in 
the preceding instances. Intense cold has a still less 
effect upon eggs than extreme heat. Spallanzani ex- 
posed the eggs of silk-worms to an artificial cold 23° 
below zero, and yet, in the subsequent spring, they 
all produced caterpillars. Insects almost invariably 
die at the temperature of 14°, that is at 1S° below the 
freezing point*. The care of insects for the pro- 

* See Spallanzani's Tracts, by Dalyell, vol. i. 



MASON-WASPS. 







tection of their eggs is not entirely directed to their 
preservation in the most favourable temperature for 
being hatched, but to secure them against the nume- 
rous enemies which would attempt their destruction ; 
and, above all, to protect the grubs when they are 
first developed, from those injuries to which they are 
peculiarly exposed. Their prospective contrivances 
for accomplishing these objects are in the highest 
degree curious. 

Most persons have more or less acquaintance 
with the hives of the social species of bees and 
wasps : but little is generally known of the nests 
constructed by the solitary species, though in many 
respects these are not inferior to the others in dis- 
plays of ingenuity and skill. We admire the social 
bees, labouring together for one common end, in the 
same way that we look with delight upon the great 
division of labour in a well-ordered manufactory. 
As in a cotton-mill, some attend to the carding of 
the raw material, some to its formation into single 
threads, some to the gathering these threads upon 
spindles, others to the union of many threads into 
one, — all labouring with invariable precision because 
they attend to a single object ; — so do we view with 
delight and wonder the successive steps by which 
the hive-bees bring their beautiful work to its com- 
pletion, — striving, by individual efforts, to accomplish 
their general task, never impeding each other by use- 
less assistance, each taking a particular department, 
and each knowing its own duties. We may, how- 
ever, not the less admire the solitary wasp or bee, 
who begins and finishes every part of its destined 
work ; just as we admire the ingenious mechanic 
who perfects something useful or ornamental entirely 
by the labour of his own hands, — whether he be the 
patient Chinese carver, who cuts the most elaborately 
decorated boxes out of a solid piece of ivory, or the 





turner of Europe, who produces every variety of 
elegant form by the skilful application of the simplest 
means. 

Our island abounds with many varieties of solitary 
wasps and bees ; and their nests may therefore be 
easily discovered by those who, in the proper seasons, 
are desirous of observing the peculiarities of their 
architecture. 

Mason-Wasps. 

In September, 1828, a common species of solitary 
mason-wasp ( Odynerus , Latr.) was observed by us* 




Odynerus . — Natural size. 

on the east wall of a house at Lee, in Kent, very busy 
in excavating a hole in one of the bricks, about five 
feet from the ground. Whether there might not 
have been an accidental hole in the brick, before 
the wasp commenced her labours, is unknown, as 
she had made considerable progress in the work 
when first observed ; but the brick was one of the 
hardest of the yellow sort made in this neighbourhood. 
The most remarkable circumstance in the process of 
hewing into the brick, was the care of the insect in re- 
moving to a distance the fragments which from time 
to time she succeeded in detaching. It did not ap- 
pear to suit her design to wear down the brick, par- 
ticle by particle, as the furniture beetle ( Anobium 
pertinax ) does, in making its pin-hole galleries in 
old wood. Our wasp-architect, on the contrary, by 
means of her strong iranchant-ioo\h^6. jaws, severed 

* J, R. 



MASON-WASPS. 








Mandibles — Jaws of Mason-fFasp . — Greatly magnified. 

a piece usually about the bigness of a mustard-seed. 
It might have been supposed that these fragments 
would have been tossed out of the hole as the 
work proceeded, without further concern ; as the 
mole tosses above ground the earth which has been 
cleared out of its subterranean gallery. The wasp 
was of a different opinion ; for it was possible that 
a heap of brick chips, at the bottom of the wall, 
might lead to the discovery of her nest by some of 
her enemies, particularly by one or other of the 
numerous tribe of what are called ichneumon flies. 
This name is given to them, from the similarity of 
their habit of destroying eggs to that of the little 
animal which proves so formidable an enemy to the 
multiplication of the crocodile of Egypt. They may 
be also denominated cuckoo flies, because, like that 
bird, they thrust their egg into the nest of another 
species. These flies are continually prowling about 
and prying into every corner, to find, by stealth, a 
nidus for their eggs. It might have been some such 
consideration as this which induced the wasp to carry 
off the fragments as they were successively detached. 
That concealment was the motive, indeed, was proved ; 
for one of the fragments which fell out of the hole by 





accident, she immediately sought for at the bottom of 
the wall, and carried off like the rest. It was no easy 
matter to get out one of the fragments, as may readily 
be conceived when the size of the insect is compared 
with that of the entrance, of which this (©) is the 
exact size, as taken from the impression of a bit 
of dough upon the hole when finished. It was 
only by seizing the fragment with her jaws, and re- 
treating backwards, that the matter could be accom- 
plished ; though, after the interior of the excavation 
was barely large enough to admit of her turning 
round, she more than once attempted to make her 
exit head-foremost., but always unsuccessfully. The 
weight of the fragments removed did not appear to 
impede her flight, and she generally returned to her 
task in about two or three minutes. 

Within two days the excavation was completed; 
but it required two other days to line it with a coating 
of clay, to deposit the eggs, two in number, and, no 
doubt, to imprison a few live spiders or caterpillars, 
for the young when hatched, — a process which was 
first observed by Ray and Willoughby*, but which 
has since been frequently ascertained. In the present 
instance, this peculiarity was not seen ; but the little 
architect was detected in closing up the entrance, 
which was formed of a layer of clay more than 
double the thickness of the interior lining. In No- 
vember following, we hewed away the brick around 
this nest, and found the whole excavation was rather 
less than an inch in depth. 

Notwithstanding all the precautions of the careful 
parent to conceal her nest, it was found out by one of 
the cuckoo flies (Tachinn larvarum ?) — probably a 
common species very similar to the house-fly, but 

* Ray, Hist. Insect. 254. 



MASON-WASPS. 







Cuckoo-Fltf — (Tnchina larvarum ?) — Natural size. 

rather larger, which deposited an egg there ; and the 
grub hatched from it, after devouring one of the wasp- 
grubs, formed itself a cocoon («), as did the other 



Mason-IVasp's Nest and Cocoons . — About one-third the natural size. 

undevoured grub of the wasp (b). Both awaited 
the return of summer to change into winged insects, 
burst their cerements, and proceed as their parents 
did. 






Mason- IFasp—(Odynerus murarius ). — Natural size. 

Another mason-wasp ( Odynerus murarius , Latr.), 
differing little in appearance from the former, may 
often be seen frequenting sandy banks exposed to 
the sun, and constructing its singular burrows. 





The sort of sand-bank which it selects is hard and 
compact; and though this maybe more difficult to 
penetrate, the walls are not liable to fall down upon 
the little miner. In such a bank, the mason-wasp 
bores a tubular gallery two or three inches deep. 
The sand upon which Reaumur found some of these 
wasps at work was almost as hard as stone, and 
yielded with difficulty to his nail ; but the wasps dug 
into it with ease, having recourse, as he ascertained, 
to the ingenious device of moistening it by letting 
fall two or three drops of fluid from their mouth, 
which rendered the mass ductile, and the separation 
of the grains easy to the double pickaxe of the little 
pioneers. 

When this wasp has detached a few grains of the 
moistened sand, it kneads them together into a 
pellet about the size of one of the seeds of a goose- 
berry. With the first pellet which it detaches, it 
lays the foundation of a round tower, as an out- 
work, immediately over the mouth of its nest. 
Every pellet which it afterwards carries off from 
the interior is added to the wall of this outer 
round tower, which advances in height as the 
hole in the sand increases in depth. Every two or 
three minutes, however, during these operations, it 
takes a short excursion, for the purpose, probably, of 
replenishing its store of fluid wherewith to moisten the 
sand. Yet so little time is lost, that Reaumur has 
seen a mason-wasp dig in an hour a hole the length 
of its body, and at the same time build as much of its 
round tower. For the greater part of its height 
this round tower is perpendicular; but towards the 
summit it bends into a curve, corresponding to the 
bend of the insect’s body, which, in all cases of 
insect architecture, is the model followed. The 
pellets which form the walls of the tower are not 
very nicely joined, and numerous vacuities are left 



MASON-BEES. 








Nests, tyc. of Mason-JVasps . — About half the natural size. — 
a The tower of the nest, b The entrance after the tower is re- 
moved. c The cell, d The cell, with a roll of caterpillars pre- 
pared for the larva. 

between them, giving it the appearance of fillagree 
work. That it should be thus slightly built is not 
surprising, for it is intended as a temporary structure 
for protecting the insect while it is excavating its 
hole; and as a pile of materials, well arranged and 
ready at hand, for the completion of the interior 
building, — in the same way that workmen make a 
regular pile of bricks near the spot where they are 
going to build. This seems, in fact, to be the main 
design of the tower, which is taken down as expedi- 
tiously as it had been reared. Reaumur thinks, that 
by piling in the sand which has previously been dug 
out, the wasp intends to guard its progeny for a time 
from being exposed to the too violent heat of the 
sun ; and he has even sometimes seen that there were 
not sufficient materials in the tower, in which case 
the wasp had recourse to the rubbish she had thrown 








out after the tower was completed. By raising a 
tower of the materials which she excavates, the wasp 
produces the same shelter from external heat, as a 
human creature would who chose to inhabit a deep 
cellar of a high house. She further protects her 
progeny from the ichneumon fly, as the engineer con- 
structs an outwork to render more difficult the ap- 
proach of an enemy to the citadel. Reaumur has seen 
this indefatigable enemy of the wasp peep into the 
mouth of the tower, and then retreat, apparently 
frightened at the depth of the cell which he was 
anxious to invade. 

The mason-wasp does not furnish the cell she has 
thus constructed with pollen* and honey, like the 
solitary bees, but with living caterpillars, and these 
always of the same species, — being of a green colour, 
and without feet. She fixes the caterpillars together 
in a spiral column : they cannot alter their position, 
although they remain alive. They are an easy prey 
to their smaller enemy ; and when the grub has eaten 
them all up, it spins a case, and is transformed into 
a nymph, which afterwards becomes a wasp. The 
number of caterpillars which is thus found in the 
lower cavity of the mason-wasp’s nest is ordinarily 
from ten to twelve. The mother is careful to lay in 
the exact quantity of provision which is necessary to 
the growth of the grub before he quits his retreat. 
He works through his store till his increase in this 
state is perfected, and he is on the point of under- 
going a change into another state, in which he re- 
quires no food. The careful purveyor, cruel indeed 
in her choice of a supply, but not the less directed 
by an unerring instinct, selects such caterpillars as 
she is conscious have completed their growth, and 
will remain thus imprisoned without increase or cor- 





The prolific powder of flowers. 



MASON-BEES. 






ruption till their destroyer has gradually satisfied the 
necessities of his being. “ All that the worm of the 
wasp,” says Reaumur, “ has to do in his nest, from 
his birth to his transformation, is to eat.” There is 
another species of wasp which does not at once en- 
close in its nest all the sustenance which its larva 
will require before transformation, but which, from 
time to time, imprisons a living caterpillar, and when 
that is consumed opens the nest and introduces 
another*. 

Mason-Bees. 

It would not be easy to find a more simple, and, 
at the same time, ingenious specimen of insect archi- 
tecture, than the nests of those species of solitary 
bees, which have been justly called mason-bees 
( Megachile , Latreille.) Reaumur, who was struck 
by the analogies between the proceedings of insects 
and human arts, first gave to bees, wasps, and cater- 
pillars those names which indicate the character 
of their labours ; and which, though they may be 
considered a little fanciful, are at least calculated to 
arrest the attention. The nests of mason-bees are 
constructed of various materials ; some with sand, 
some with earth mixed with chalk, and some with a 
mixture of earthy substances and wood. 

On the north-east wall of Greenwich Park, facing 
the road, and about four feet from the ground, we 
discoveredf, December 10th, 1828, the nest of a 
mason-bee, formed in the perpendicular line of 
cement between two bricks. Externally there was 
an irregular cake of dry mud, precisely as if a hand- 
ful of wet road-stuff had been taken from a cart-rut 
and thrown against the wall ; though, upon closer 
inspection, the cake contained more small stones 



* Bonnet, Contemplation, &c. 1. xii. c. 41. f J. R. 








Mason-Bee — ( Anthophora retusa '). — Natural size. 

than usually occur in the mud of the adjacent cart- 
ruts. We should, in fact, have passed it by without 
notice, had there not been a circular hole on one side 
of it, indicating the perforation of some insect. This 




Exter ior ivall of Mason-Bee's nest. 



hole was found to be the orifice of a cell about'an inch 
deep, exactly of the form and size of a lady’s thimble, 
finely polished, and of the colour of plaster of Paris, 
but stained in various places with yellow. 

This cell was empty ; but upon removing' the cake 
of mud, we discovered another cell, separated from 
the former by a partition about a quarter of an inch 
thick, and in it a living bee, from which the preceding 
figure was drawn, and which, as we supposed, had 
just changed from the pupa into the winged state, 
in consequence of the uncommon mildness ot the 
weather. The one which hud occupied the adjacent cell 



MASON-BEES. 







had, no doubt, already dug its way out of its prison, 
and would probably fall a victim to the first frost. 

Our nest contained only two cells — perhaps from 
there not being room between the bricks for more. 




Cells of a Mason-Bee ( Anthophora retusa,') — One-third the natural size. 

An interesting account is given by Reaumur of ano- 
ther mason-bee ( Megachile muraria ), selecting earthy 
sand, grain by grain ; her gluing a mass of these toge- 
ther with saliva, and building with them her cells from 
the foundation. But the cells of the Greenwich Park 
nest were apparently composed of the mortar of the 
brick wall ; though the external covering seems to 
have been constructed as Reaumur describes his 
nest, with the occasional addition of small stones. 

About the middle of May, 1829, we discovered the 
mine from which all the various species of mason-bees 
in the vicinity seemed to derive materials for their 
nests*. It was a bank of brown clay, facing the east, 
and close by the margin of the river Ravensbourn, at 
Lee, in Kent. The frequent resort of the bees to this 
spot attracted the attention of some workmen, who, 
deceived by their resemblance to wasps, pointed it out 
as a wasp’s nest ; though they were not a little 
surprised to see so numerous a colony at this early 
season. As the bees had dug a hole in the bank, 



*J.K, 







where they were incessantly entering and re-appear- 
ing, we were of opinion that they were a peculiar 
sort of the social earth bees ( Bomb us ). On ap- 
proaching the spot, however, we remarked that the 
bees were not alarmed, and manifested none of the 
irritation usual in such cases, the consequence of 
jealous affection for their young. This led us to ob- 
serve their operations more minutely ; and we soon 
discovered that on issuing from the hole each bee 
carried out in its mandibles a piece of clay. Still 
supposing that they were social earth bees, we con- 
cluded that they were busy excavating a hollow for 
their nest, and carrying off the refuse to prevent dis- 
covery. The mouth of the hole was overhung, and 
partly concealed, by a large pebble. This we removed, 
and widened the entrance of the hole, intending to dig 
down and ascertain the state of the operations ; but 
we soon found that it was of small depth. The bees, 
being scared away, began scooping out clay from 
another hole about a yard distant from the first. 
Upon our withdrawing a few feet from the first hole, 
they returned thither in preference, and continued as- 
siduously digging and removing the clay. It became 
obvious, therefore, from their thus changing place, 
that they were not constructing a nest, but merely 
quarrying for clay as a building material. By catching 
one of the bees ( Osmia bicornis ) when it was loaded 
with its burden, we ascertained that the clay was not 
only carefully kneaded, but was also more moist than 
the mass from which it had been taken. The bee, 
therefore, in preparing the pellet, which was nearly 
as large as a garden pea, had moistened it with its 
saliva, or some similar fluid, to render it, we may 
suppose, more tenacious, and better fitted for build- 
ing. The reason of their digging a hole, instead of 
taking clay indiscriminately from the bank, appeared 
to be for the purpose of economizing their saliva, as 



MASON-BEES. 







the weather was clry, and the clay at the surface was 
parched and hard. It must have been this circum- 
stance which induced them to prefer digging a hole, 
as it were, in concert, though each of them had to 
build a separate nest. 

The distance to which they carried the clay was 
probably considerable, as there was no wall near, in 
the direction they all flew towards, upon which they 
could build ; and in the same direction also, it is 
worthy of remark, they could have procured much 
nearer the very same sort of clay. Whatever 
might be the cause of their preference, we could 
not but admire their extraordinary industry. It 
did not require more than half a minute to knead 
one of the pellets of clay ; and from their frequent 
returns, probably not more than five minutes to 
carry it to the nest, and apply it, were wanted. 
From the dryness of the weather, indeed, it was in- 
dispensable for them to work rapidly, otherwise the 
clay could not have been made to hold together. 
The extent of the whole labour of forming a single 
nest may be imagined, if we estimate that it must 
take several hundred pellets of clay ior its completion. 
If a bee work fourteen or fifteen hours a day, there- 
fore, carrying ten or twelve pellets to its nest every 
hour, it will be able to finish the structure in about 
two or three days ; allowing some hours of extra time 
for the more nice workmanship of the cells in which 
the eggs are to be deposited, and the young grubs 
reared. 

That the construction of such a nest is not a 
merely agreeable exercise to the mason-bee has been 
sufficiently proved by M. Du Hamel. He has ob- 
served a bee ( Megachile muraria) less careful to 
perform the necessary labour for the protection of 
her offspring than those we have described ; but, not 
less desirous of obtaining this protection, attempt to 

E 






usurp the nest which another had formed. A fierce 
battle was invariably the consequence of this attempt; 
for the true mistress would never give place to the 
intruder. The motive for the injustice and the re- 
sistance was an indisposition to further labour. The 
trial of strength was probably, sometimes, of as little 
use in establishing the right as it is amongst man- 
kind ; and the proper owner, exhausted by her 
efforts, had doubtless often to surrender to the dis- 
honest usurper. 

The account which Reaumur has given of the opera- 
tions of this class of bees differs considerably from 
that which we have here detailed ; from the species 
being different, or from his bees not having been able 
to procure moist clay. On the contrary, sand was 
the chief material used by his mason-bees ( Megachile 
muraria ) ; which they had the patience to select from 
the walks of a garden, and knead into a paste or 
mortar, adapted to their building. They had con- 
sequently to expend a much greater quantity of 
saliva, than our bees ( Osmia bicornis ) which worked 
with moist clay. Reaumur, indeed, ascertained that 
every individual grain of sand is moistened previous 
to its being joined to the pellet, in order to make 
it adhere more effectually. The tenacity of the 
mass is besides rendered stronger, he tells us, by 
adding a proportion of earth or garden mould. In 
this manner, a ball of mortar is formed, about the 
size of a small shot, and carried off to the nest. When 
the structure of this is examined, it has all the appear- 
ance externally of being composed of earth and small 
stones or gravel. The ancients, who were by no means 
accurate naturalists, having observed bees carrying 
pellets of earth and small stones, supposed that they 
employed these to add to their weight, in order to 
steady their flight when impeded by the wind. 

The nests thus constructed appear to have been 



MASON-BEES. 







more durable edifices than those which have fallen 
under our observation ; — for Reaumur says they 
were harder than many sorts of stone, and could 
scarcely be penetrated with a knife. Ours, on the 
contrary, do not seem harder than a piece of sun- 
baked clay, and by no means so hard as brick. One 
circumstance appeared inexplicable to Reaumur and 
his friend Du Hamel, who studied the operations of 
these insects in concert. After taking a portion of 
sand from one part of the garden-walk, the bees 
usually took another portion from a spot almost twenty 
and sometimes a hundred paces off, though the sand, 
so far as could be judged by close examination, was 
precisely the same in the two places. We should be 
disposed to refer this more to the restless character 
of the insect, than to any difference in the sand. 
We have observed a wasp paring the outside of a 
plank, for materials to form its nest; and though the 
plank was as uniform in the qualities of its surface, 
nay, probably more so than the sand could be, the 
wasp fidgeted about, nibbling a fibre from one, and 
a fibre from another portion, till enough was procured 
for one load. In the same way, the whole tribe of 
wasps and bees flit restlessly from flower to flower, 
not unfrequently revisiting the same blossom, again 
and again, within a few seconds. It appears to us, 
indeed, to be far from improbable, that this very rest- 
lessness and irritability may be one of the springs 
of their unceasing industry. 

By observing, with some care, the bees which we 
found digging the clay, we discovered one of them 
( Osmia bicornis) at work upon a nest, about a gun- 
shot from the bank. The place it had chosen was 
the inner wall of a coal-house, facing the south-west, 
the brick-work of which was but roughly finished. 
In an upright interstice of half an inch in width, be- 
tween two of the bricks, we found the little architect 









assiduously building its walls. The bricklayer’s 
mortar had either partly fallen out, or been removed 
by the bee, who had commenced building at the 
lower end, and did not build downwards, as the 
social wasps construct their cells. 

The very different behaviour of the insect here, and 
at the quarry, struck us as not a little remarkable. 
When digging and preparing the clay, our approach, 
however near, produced no alarm ; the work went 
on as if we had been at a distance; and though 
we were standing close to the hole, this did not scare 
away any of the bees upon their arrival to procure a 
fresh load. But if we stood near the nest, or even in 
the way by which the bee flew to it, she turned back 
or made a wide circuit immediately, as if afraid to 
betray the site of her domicile. We even observed 
her turning back, when we were so distant that it 
could not reasonably be supposed she was jealous of 
us ; but probably she had detected some prowling 
insect-depredator, tracking her flight with designs 
upon her provision for her future progeny. We 
imagined we could perceive not a little art in her 
jealous caution, for she would alight on the tiles as 
if to rest herself; and even when she had entered the 
coal-house, she did not go directly to her nest, but 
again rested on a shelf, and at other times pre- 
tended to examine several crevices in the wall, at 
some distance from the nest. But when there was 
nothing to alarm her, she flew directly to the spot, 
and began eagerly to add to the building. 

It is in instances such as these, which exhibit the 
adaptation of instinct to circumstances, that our 
reason finds the greatest difficulty in explaining the 
governing principle of the minds of the inferior ani- 
mals. The mason-bee makes her nest by an inva- 
riable rule ; the model is in her mind, as it has been 
in the mind of her race from their first creation : they 



MASON-BEES. 







have learnt nothing; by experience. But the mode in 
which they accomplish this task varies according to 
the situations in which they are placed. They appear 
to have a glimmering of reason, employed as an 
accessary and instrument of their instinct. 

The structure, when finished, consisted of a wall of 
clay supported by two contiguous bricks, enclosing 
six chambers, within which a mass of pollen, rather 
larger than a cherry-stone, was deposited, together 
with an egg, from which in due time a grub was 
hatched. Contrary to what has been recorded by pre- 
ceding naturalists, with respect to other mason-bees, 
we found the cells in this instance quite parallel and 
perpendicular ; but it may also be remarked, that the 






Cells of Mason-Bees, built, in the first and second figures, by 
Osmia bicornis between bricks, and in the third, by Megachile 
murariu in the fluting of an old pilaster ; about half the natural 
size. 

bee itself was a species altogether different from the 
one which we have described above as the Antho- 
phora return , and agreed with the figure of the one 
we caught quarrying the clay — ( Osmia bicornis.) 

There was one circumstance attending the pro- 
ceedings of this mason-bee which struck us not a 
little, though we could not explain it to our own 





satisfaction. Every time she left her nest for the pur- 
pose of procuring a fresh supply of materials, she 
paid a regular visit to the blossoms of a lilac tree 
which crrew near. Had these blossoms afforded a 
supply of pollen, with which she could have reple- 
nished her cells, we could have easily understood her 
design; but the pollen of the lilac is not suitable for 
this purpose, and that she had never used it was 
proved by all the pollen in the cells being yellow, 
whereas that of the lilac is of the same pale, purple 
colour as the flowers. Besides, she did not return im- 
mediately from the lilac tree to the building, but 
always went for a load of clay. There seemed to us, 
therefore, to be only two ways to explain the circum- 
stance : — she must either have applied to the lilac 
blossoms to obtain a refreshment of honey, or to pro- 
cure glutinous materials to mix with the clay. 

When employed upon the building itself, the bee 
exhibited the restless disposition peculiar to most 
hymenopterous* insects ; for she did not go on with 
one particular portion of her wall, but ran about from 
place to place every time she came to work. At first, 
when we saw her running from the bottom to the 
top of her building, we naturally imagined that she 
went up for some of the bricklayer’s mortar to mix 
with her own materials ; but upon minutely examining 
the walls afterwards, no lime could be discovered in 
their structure, similar to that which was apparent in 
the nest found in the wall of Greenwich Park. 

Reaumur mentions another sort of mason-bee, 
which selects a small cavity in a stone, in which she 
forms her nest of garden mould moistened with glu- 
ten, and afterwards closes the hole with the same 
material. 

* The fifth order of Linnaeus \ insects with four transparen 
veined wings. 








Mason-Bee and Nest — From Reaumur. 



Mining-Bees. 

A very small sort of bees ( Andrence ), many of 
them not larger than a house-fly, dig; in the ground 
tubular galleries little wider than the diameter of 
their own bodies. Samouelle says, that all of them 
seem to prefer a southern aspect ; but we have found 
them in banks facing the east, and even the north. 
Immediately above the spot where we have described 
the mason-bees quarrying the clay, we observed seve- 
ral holes, about the diameter of the stalk of a to- 
bacco-pipe, into which those little bees were seen 
passing. The clay here was very hard ; and on 
passing a straw into the hole as a director, and digging- 
down for six or eight inches, a very smooth circular 
gallery was found, terminating in a thimble -shaped 
horizontal chamber, almost at rijrht angles to the 
entrance, and nearly twice as wide. In this chamber 




Cell of Minxng-Bcc ( Andrena ), — About half the natural size. 



 



there was a ball of bright yellow pollen, as round as 
a garden pea, and rather larger, upon which a small 
white grub was feeding ; and to which the mother 
bee had been adding, as she had just entered a minute 
before with her thighs loaded with pollen. That it 
was not the male, the load of pollen determined ; for 
the male has no apparatus for collecting or trans- 
porting it. The whole labour of digging the nest 
and providing food for the young is performed by 
the female. The females of the solitary bees have 
no assistance in their tasks. The males are idle ; and 
the females are unprovided with labourers, such as 
the queens of the hive command. 

Reaumur mentions that the bees of this sort, whose 
operations he had observed, piled up at the entrance 
of their galleries the earth which they had scooped 
out from the interior; and when the grub was hatched, 
and properly provided with food, the earth was again 
employed to close up the passage, in order to prevent 
the intrusion of ants, ichneumon flies, or other de- 
predators. In those which we have observed, this 
Was not the case ; but every species differs from 
another in some little peculiarity, though they agree 
in the general principles of their operations. 







CARPENTER-BEES ; CARPENTER-WASPS ; UPHOLSTERER* 

BEES. 

Carpenter-Bees. 

Among the solitary bees are several British species 
which come under that class called carpenter-bees by 
M. Reaumur, from the circumstance of their working 
in wood, as the mason-bees work in stone. We have 
frequently witnessed the operations of these inge- 
nious little workers, who are particularly partial to 
posts, palings, and the wood-work of houses which has 
become soft by beginning to decay. Wood actually 
decayed, or affected by dry-rot, they seem to reject 
as unfit for their purposes; but they make no objec- 
tions to any hole previously drilled, provided it be 
not too large ; and, like the mason-bees, they not 
unfrequently take possession of an old nest, a few 
repairs being all that in this case is necessary. 

When a new nest is to be constructed, the bee 
proceeds to chisel sufficient space for it out of the 
wood with her jaws. We say her , because the task 
in this instance, as in most others of solitary bees 
and wasps, devolves solely upon the female, the male 
taking no concern in the affair, and probably being 
altogether ignorant that such a work is going forward. 
It is, at least, certain that the male is never seen giv- 
ing his assistance, and he seldom, if ever, approaches 
the neighbourhood. The female carpenter-bee has a 
task to perform no less arduous than the mason-bee ; 
for though the wood may be tolerably soft, she can 








only cut out a very small portion at a time. The suc- 
cessive portions which she gnaws off may be readily 
ascertained by an observer, as she carries them away 
from the place. In giving the history of a mason- 
wasp ( Odynerus ), at page 25, we remarked the 
care with which she carried to a distance little frag:- 
ments of brick, which she detached in the progress of 
excavation. We have recently watched a precisely 
similar procedure in the instance of a carpenter-bee 
forming a cell in a wooden post *. The only difference 
was, that the bee did not fly so far away with her frag- 
ments of wood as the wasp did ; but she varied the 
direction of her flight every time : and we could ob- 
serve, that after dropping the chip of wood which she 
had carried off, she did not return in a direct line to 
her nest, but made a circuit of some extent before 
wheeling round to go back. 

On observing the proceedings of this carpenter-bee 
next day, we found her coming in with balls of pollen 
on her thighs ; and on tracing her from the nest into 
the adjacent garden, we saw her visiting every flower 
which was likely to yield her a supply of pollen for 
her future progeny. This was not all : we subse- 
quently saw her taking the direction of the clay- 
quarry frequented by the mason-bees, as we have 
mentioned in page 35, where we recognized her 
loading herself with a pellet of clay, and carrying it 
into her cell in the wooden post. We observed her 
alternating this labour for several days, at one time 
carrying clay, and at another pollen ; till at length 
she completed her task, and closed the entrance with 
a barricado of clay, to prevent the intrusion of any 
insectivorous depredator, who might make prey of 
her young; or of some prying parasite, who might 
introduce its own eggs into the nest she had taken 
so much trouble to construct. 

* J. R. 









Cells of Carpenter-Bees , excavated in an old post . — In fig. a the 
cells contain the young grubs ; in fig. b the cells are empty. Both 
figures are shown in section, and about half the natural size. 

Some days after it was finished, we cut into the 
post, and exposed this nest to view. It consisted of 
six cells of a somewhat square shape, the wood 
forming the lateral walls ; and each was separated 
from the one adjacent by a partition of clay, of the 
thickness of a playing card. The wood was not 
lined with any extraneous substance, but was worked 
as smooth as if it had been chiselled by a joiner. 
There were five cells, arranged in a very singular 
manner — two being almost horizontal, two perpendi- 
cular, and one oblique. 

The depth to which the wood was excavated, in 
this instance, was considerably less than what we 
have observed in other species which dig perpendi- 
cular galleries several inches deep in posts and gar- 
den-seats ; and they are inferior in ingenuity to the 
carpentry of a bee described by Reaumur ( Xylocopa 
violacea ), which has not been ascertained to be a 
native of Britain, though a single indigenous species 
of the genus has been doubtingly mentioned, and is 







figured, by Kirby, in his valuable ‘ Monographia.’ Tf 
it ever be found here, its large size and beautiful 
violet-coloured wings will render mistakes impos- 
sible. 

The violet carpenter-bee usually selects an up- 
right piece of wood, into which she bores obliquely 
for about an inch ; and then, changing the direction, 
works perpendicularly, and parallel to the sides of 
the wood, for twelve or fifteen inches, and half an 
inch in breadth. Sometimes the bee is contented 
with one or two of these excavations ; at other times, 
when the wood is adapted to it, she scoops out three 
or four — a task which sometimes requires several 
weeks of incessant labour. 

The tunnel in the wood, however, is only one part 
of the work ; for the little architect has afterwards 
to divide the whole into cells, somewhat less than an 
inch in depth. It is necessary, for the proper growth 
of her progeny, that each should be separated from 
the other, and be provided with adequate food. She 
knows, most exactly, the quantity of food which each 
grub will require, during its growth ; and she there- 
fore does not hesitate to cut it otf from any additional 
supply. In constructing her cells, she does not employ 
clay, like the bee which we have mentioned above, 
but the sawdust, if we may call it so, which she has 
collected in gnawing out the gallery. It would not, 
therefore, have suited her design to scatter this about, 
as our carpenter-bee did. The violet bee, on the 
contrary, collects her gnawings into a little store-heap 
for future use, at a short distance from her nest. She 
proceeds thus : — At the bottom of her excavation she 
deposits an egg, and over it fills a space nearly an 
inch high with the pollen of flowers, made into a paste 
with honey. She then covers this over with a ceiling 
composed of cemented sawdust, which also serves 
for the floor of the next chamber above it. For this 










A. represents a part of an espalier prop, tunnelled in several 
places by the violet carpenter-bee : the stick is split, and shows the 
nests and passages by which they are approached. B, a portion 
of the prop, half the natural size. C, a piece of thin stick, pierced 
by the carpenter-bee, and split, to show the nests. D, Perspec- 
tive view of one of the partitions. E, Carpenter-bee ( Xylocopa 
violacea). F, Teeth of the carpenter-bee, greatly magnified: a, the 
upper side ; b, lower side. 



purpose, she cements round a wall a ring of wood 
chips, taken from her store- heap ; and within this ring 
forms another, gradually contracting the diameter till 
she has constructed a circular plate, about the thick- 
ness of a crown-piece, and of considerable hardness. 





This plate of course exhibits concentric circles, some- 
what similar to the annual circles in the cross section 
of a tree. In the same manner she proceeds till she 
has completed ten or twelve cells ; and then she closes 
the main entrance with a barrier of similar materials. 

Let us compare the progress of this little joiner with 
a human artisan — one who has been long practised in 
his trade, and has the most perfect and complicated 
tools for his assistance. The bee has learnt nothing 
by practice ; she makes her nest but once in her life, 
but it is then as complete and finished as if she had 
made a thousand. She has no pattern before her — 
but the Architect of all things has impressed a plan 
upon her mind, which she can realize without scale 
or compasses. Her two sharp teeth are the only 
tools with which she is provided for her laborious 
work ; and yet she bores a tunnel, twelve times the 
length of her own body, with greater ease than the 
workman who bores into the earth for water, with 
his apparatus of augers adapted to every soil. Her 
tunnel is clean and regular ; she leaves no chips at 
the bottom, for she is provident of her materials. 
Further, she has an exquisite piece of joinery to per- 
form, when her ruder labour is accomplished. The 
patient bee works her rings from the circumference 
to the centre, and she produces a shelf, united with 
such care with her natural glue, that a number of 
fragments are as solid as one piece. 

The violet carpenter-bee, as may be expected, oc- 
cupies several weeks in these complicated labours ; 
and during that period she is gradually depositing 
her eggs, each of which is successively to become 
a grub, a pupa, and a perfect bee. It is obvious, 
therefore, as she does not lay all her eggs in the 
same place — as each is separated from the other by 
a laborious process — that the egg which is first laid 
will be the earliest hatched ; and that the first perfect 






insect, being older than its fellows in the same tun- 
nel, will strive to make its escape sooner, and so on 
of the rest. The careful mother provides for this 
contingency. She makes a lateral opening at the 
bottom of the cells ; for the teeth of the young bees 
would not be strong enough to pierce the outer wood, 
though they can remove the cemented rings of saw- 
dust in the interior. Reaumur observed these holes, 
in several cases ; and he further noticed another ex- 
ternal opening opposite to the middle cell, which he 
supposed was formed, in the first instance, to shorten 
the distance for the removal of the fragments of wood 
in the lower half of the building. 

That bees of similar habits, if not the same spe- 
cies as the violet bee, are indigenous to this country, 
is proved by Grew, who mentions, in his c Rarities 
of Gresham College,’ having found a series of such 
cells in the middle of the pith of an old elder branch, 
in which they were placed lengthwise, one after an- 
other, with a thin boundary between each. As he 
does not, however, tell us that he was acquainted 
with the insect which constructed these, it might 
as probably be allied to the Ceratina albilabris, of 
which Spinola has given so interesting an account 
in the ‘ Annales du Museum d’Histoire Naturelle’ 
(x. 236). This noble and learned naturalist tells 
us, that one evening he perceived a female ceratina 
alight on the branch of a bramble, partly withered, 
and of which the extremity had been broken ; and, 
after resting a moment, suddenly disappear. On 
detaching the branch, he found that it was perfo- 
rated, and that the insect was in the very act of exca- 
vating a nidus for her eggs. He forthwith gathered 
a bundle of branches, both of the bramble and the 
wild-rose, similarly perforated, and took them home 
to examine them at leisure. Upon inspection, he 





found that the nests were furnished, like those of the 
same tribe, with balls of pollen kneaded with honey, 
as a provision for the grubs. 

The female ceratina selects a branch of the bramble 
or wild-rose which has been accidentally broken, and 
digs into the pith only, leaving the wood and bark 
untouched. Her mandibles, indeed, are not adapted 
for gnawing wood; and, accordingly, he found in- 
stances in which she could not finish a nest in 
branches of the wild-rose, where the pith was not of 
sufficient diameter. 

The insect usually makes her perforation a foot in 
depth, and divides this into eight, nine, or even 
twelve cells, each about five lines long, and sepa- 
rated by partitions formed of the gnawings of the 
pith, cemented by honey, or some similar glutinous 
fluid, much in the same manner with the ocylocopa 
violacea , which we have already described. 

Carpenter-Wasps. 

As there are mason-wasps similar in economy to 
mason-bees, so are there solitary carpenter-wasps 
which dig galleries in timber, and partition them out 
into several cells by means of the gnawings of the 
wood which they have detached. This sort of 
wasp is of the genus Eumenes. The wood se- 
lected is generally such as is soft, or in a state of 
decay ; and the hole which is dug in it is much less 
neat and regular than that of the carpenter-bees, 
while the division of the chambers is nothing 1 more 
than the rubbish produced during the excavation. 

The provision which is made for the grub consists 
of flies or gnats piled into the chamber, but without 
the nice order remarkable in the spiral columns of 
green caterpillars provided by the mason-wasp 
( Odynerus murarius). The most remarkable cir- 
cumstance is, that in some of the species, when the 








A B represent sections of old wooden posts, with the cells of 
the carpenter-wasp, In fig-. A the young grubs are shewn feeding 
on the insects placed there for their support by the parent wasp. 
The cells in fig. B contain cocoons. C, carpenter-wasp, natural 
size. D, cocoon of a carpenter-wasp, composed of sawdust and 
wings of insects. 



grub is about to go into the pupa state, it spins a 
case (a cocoon), into which it interweaves the wings 
of the flies whose bodies it has previously devoured. 
In other species, the gnawings of the wood are em- 
ployed in a similar manner. 

Upholsterer-Bees. 

In another part of this volume we shall see how 
certain caterpillars construct abodes for themselves, 
by cutting off portions of the leaves or bark of 
plants, and uniting them by means of silk into a 
uniform and compact texture ; but this scarcely ap- 
pears so wonderful as the prospective labours of 
some species of bees for the lodgment of their pro- 
geny. We allude to the solitary bees, known by the 
name of the leaf-cutting bees, but which may be de- 
nominated more generally upholsterer-becs , as there 
are some of them which use other materials beside 
leaves. 





One species of our little upholsterers has been 
called the poppy-bee ( Osmia papaveris , Latr.), 
from its selecting the scarlet petals of the poppy as 
tapestry for its cells. Kirby and Spence express 
their doubts whether it is indigenous to this coun- 
try: we are almost certain that we have seen the 
nests in Scotland*. At Largs, in Ayrshire, a beau- 
tiful sea-bathing village on the Firth of Clyde, in 
July, 1814, we found in a foot-path a great num- 
ber of the cylindrical perforations of the poppy- 
bee. Reaumur remarked that the cells of this bee 
which he found at Bercy, were situated in a nor- 
thern exposure, contrary to what he had remarked 
in the mason-bee, which prefers the south. The 
cells at Largs, however, were on an elevated bank, 
facing the south, near Sir Thomas Brisbane's ob- 
servatory. With respect to exposure, indeed, no 
certain rule seems applicable ; for the nests of mason- 
bees which we found on the wall of Greenwich Park 
faced the north-east, and we have often found car- 
penter-bees make choice of a similar situation. In 
one instance, we found carpenter-bees working in- 
differently on the north-east and south-west side of 
the same post. 

As we did not perceive any heaps of earth near 
the holes at Largs, we concluded that it must either 
have been carried off piecemeal when they were 
dug, or that they were old holes re-occupied, — (a 
circumstance common with bees), and that the rub- 
bish had been trodden down by passengers. Reau- 
mur, who so minutely describes the subsequent opera- 
tions of the bee, says nothing respecting its excava- 
tions. One of these holes is about three inches deep, 
gradually widening as it descends, till it assumes the 
form of a small Florence flask. The interior of this 
is rendered smooth, uniform, and polished, in order 



* J, R 




to adapt it to the tapestry with which it is in- 
tended to be hung, and which is the next step in the. 
process. 

The material used for tapestry by the insect uphol- 
sterer is supplied by the petals* of the scarlet field- 
poppy, from which she successively cuts off small 
pieces of an oval shape, seizes them between her legs, 
and conveys them to the nest. She begins her work 
at the bottom, which she overlays with three or four 
leaves in thickness, and the sides have never less than 
two. When she finds that the piece she has brought 
is too large to fit the place intended, she cuts off what 
is superfluous, and carries away the shreds. By cut- 
ting the fresh petal of a poppy with a pair of scissors, 
we may perceive the difficulty of keeping the piece 
free from wrinkles and shrivelling ; but the bee knows 
how to spread the pieces which she uses as smooth 
as glass. 

When she has in this manner hung the little cham- 
ber all round with this splendid scarlet tapestry, of 
which she is not sparing, but extends it even be- 
yond the entrance, she then fills it with the pollen 
of flowers mixed with honey, to the height of about 
half an inch. In this magazine of provisions for her 
future progeny she lays an egg, and over it folds 
down the tapestry of poppy petals from above. The 
upper part is then filled in with earth ; but Latreille 
says, he has observed more than one cell constructed 
in a single excavation. This may account for Reau- 
mur’s describing them as sometimes seven inches 
deep ; a circumstance which Latreille, however, thinks 
very surprising. 

It will, perhaps, be impossible ever to ascertain, 
beyond a doubt, whether the tapestry-bee is led to 

* Petal is the term employed by botanists to denote the leaf, 
or division of the coloured portion of a flower, 







select the brilliant petals of the poppy from their co- 
lour, or from any other quality they may possess, 
of softness or of warmth, for instance. Reaumur 
thinks that the largeness, united with the flexibility 
of the poppy-leaves, determines her choice. Yet it 
is not improbable that her eye may be gratified 
by the appearance of her nest ; — that she may pos- 
sess a feeling of the beautiful in colour, and may 
look with complacency upon the delicate hang- 
ings of the apartment which she destines for her 
offspring. Why should not an insect be supposed 
to have a glimmering of the value of ornament? 
How can we pronounce, from our limited notion 
of the mode in which the inferior' animals think 
and act, that their gratifications are wholly bounded 
by the positive utility of the objects which sur- 
round them ? Why does a dog howl at the sound 
of a bugle, but because it offends his organs of hear- 
ing ? — and why, therefore, may not a bee feel glad- 
ness in the brilliant hues of her scarlet drapery, be- 
cause they are grateful to her organs of sight ? All 
these little creatures work, probably, with more neat- 
ness and finish than is absolutely essential for com- 
fort ; and this circumstance alone would imply that 
they have something of taste to exhibit, which pro- 
duces to them a pleasurable emotion. 

The tapestry-bee is, however, content with orna- 
menting the interior only of the nest which she forms 
for her progeny. She does not misplace her embel- 
lishments with the error of some human artists. She 
desires security as well as elegance ; and, therefore, 
she leaves no external traces of her operations. Hers 
is not a mansion rich with columns and friezes with- 
out, but cold and unfurnished within, like the deso- 
late palaces of Venice. She covers her tapestry 
quite round with the common earth ; and leaves her 
eggs enclosed in their poppy-case with a certainty 






that the outward shew of her labours will attract no 
plunderer. 

The poppy-bee may be known by its being rather 
more than a third of an inch long, of a black colour, 
studded on the head and back with reddish grey 
hairs ; the belly being grey and silky, and the rings 
margined with grey above, the second and third 
having an impressed transversal line. 

A species of solitary bee (Anthidium manicatum, 
Fabricius), by no means uncommon with us, forms 
a nest of a peculiarly interesting structure. Kirby and 
Spence say, that it does not excavate holes, but makes 
choice of the cavities of old trees, key-holes, and si- 
milar localities ; yet it is highly probable, we think, 
that it may sometimes scoop out a suitable cavity 
when it cannot find one ; for its mandibles seem 
equally capable of this, with those of any of the car- 
penter or mason bees. 

Be this as it may, the bee in question having se- 
lected a place suitably sheltered from the weather, 
and from the intrusion of depredators, proceeds to 
form her nest, the exterior walls of which she forms 
of the wool of pubescent plants, such as rose-cam- 
pion ( Lychnis coronario ), the quince ( Pyrus cydo- 
nia ), cats-ears ( Slachys lanata ), &c. “ It is very 

pleasant,” says Mr. White of Selborne, “ to see with 
what address this insect strips off the down, running 
from the top to the bottom of the branch, and shaving 
it bare with all the dexterity of a hoop shaver. When 
it has got a vast bundle, almost as large as itself, it 
flies away, holding it secure between its chin and its 
fore-legs 

The manner in which the cells of the nest are 
* Naturalists’ Calendar, p. 109. 







made seems not to be very clearly understood. M. 
Latreille says, that after constructing her nest of the 
down of quince leaves, she deposits her eggs, together 
with a store of paste, formed of the pollen of flowers, 
for nourishing the grubs. Kirby and Spence, on the 
other hand, tell us, that “ the parent bee, after 
having constructed her cells, laid an egg in each, and 
filled them with a store of suitable food, plasters 
them with a covering of vermiform masses, appa- 
rently composed of honey and pollen; and having 
done this, aware, long before Count Rumford’s expe- 
riments, what materials conduct heat most slowly,” 
she collects the down from woolly plants, and “ sticks 
it upon the plaster that covers her cells, and thus 
closely envelops them with a warm coating of down, 
impervious to every change of temperature.” “ From 
later observations,” however, they are “ inclined to 
think that these cells may possibly, as in the case of 
the humble-bee, be in fact formed by the larva pre- 
viously to becoming a pupa, after having eaten the 
provision of pollen and honey with which the parent 
bee had surrounded it. The vermicular shape, how- 
ever, of the masses with which the cases are sur- 
rounded, does not seem easily reconcileable with this 
supposition, unless they are considered as the excre- 
ment of the larva.” * 

Whether or not this second explanation is the true 
one, we have not the means of ascertaining ; but we 
are almost certain the first is incorrect, as it is con- 
trary to the regular procedure of insects, to begin 
with the interior part of any structure, and work out- 
wards. We should imagine, then, that the down is 
first spread out into the form required, and afterwards 
plastered on the inside to keep it in form, when pro- 



* Introduction to Entomology, vol. i. p.435, 5th edit. 







bably the grub spins the vermicular cells previous to 
its metamorphosis. 

It might prove interesting to investigate this more 
minutely ; and, as the bee is by no means scarce 
in the neighbourhood of London, it might not be 
difficult for a careful observer to witness all the details 
of this singular architecture. The bee may be readily 
known from its congeners, by its being about the size 
of the hive-bee, but more broad and flattened, blackish 
brown above, with a row of six yellow or white 
spots along each side of the rings, very like the rose- 
leaf cutter, and having the belly covered with yellow- 
ish brown hair, and the legs fringed with long hairs 
of a rather lighter colour. 

A common bee belonging to the family of uphol- 
sterers is called the rose-leaf cutter ( Megachile cen- 
tuncularis , Latr.). The singularly ingenious habits of 
this bee have long attracted the attention of naturalists, 
but the most interesting description is given by 
Reaumur. So extraordinary does the construction 
of their nests appear, that a French gardener having 
dug up some, and believing them to be the work of 
a magician, who had placed them in his garden with 
evil intent, sent them to Paris to his master, for ad- 
vice as to what should be done by way of exorcism. 
On applying to the Abbe Nollet, the owner of the 
garden was soon persuaded that the nests in ques- 
tion were the work of insects ; and M. Reaumur, to 
whom they were subsequently sent, found them to 
be the nests of one of the upholsterer-bees, and pro- 
bably of the rose-leaf cutter, though the nests in ques- 
tion were made of the leaves of the mountain-ash 
( Pyrus aucuparia). 

The rose-leaf cutter makes a cylindrical hole in a 
beaten pathway, for the sake of more consolidated 
earth, (or in the cavities of walls or decayed wood,) 



 



from six to ten inches deep, and does not throw the 
earth dug- out from it into a heap, like the an- 
drenae*. In this she constructs several cells about an 
inch in length, shaped like a thimble, and made of 
cuttings of leaves (not petals), neatly folded together, 
the bottom of one thimble-shaped cell being inserted 
into the mouth of the one below it, and so on in suc- 
cession. 

It is interesting to observe the manner in which 
this bee procures the materials for forming the tapes- 
try of her cells. The leaf of the rose-tree seems to 
be that which she prefers, though she sometimes 
takes other sorts of leaves, particularly those with ser- 
rated margins, such as the birch, the perennial mer- 
cury ( Mercurialis perennis ), mountain ash, &c. She 
places herself upon the outer edge of the leaf which 
she has selected, so that its margin may pass between 
her legs. Turning her head towards the point, she 
commences near the footstalk, and with her mandi- 
bles cuts out a circular piece with as much expedi- 
tion as we could do with a pair of scissors, and with 
more accuracy and neatness than could easily be done 
by us. As she proceeds, she keeps the cut portion be- 
tween her legs so as not to impede her progress ; and 
using her body for a trammel, as a carpenter would 
say, she cuts in a regular curved line. As she sup- 
ports herself during the operation upon the portion 
of the leaf which she is detaching, it must be ob- 
vious, when it is nearly cut off, that the weight of 
her body might tear it away, so as to injure the accu- 
racy of its curvilineal shape. To prevent any acci- 
dent of this kind, as soon as she suspects that her 
weight might tear it, she poises herself on her wings, 
till she has completed the incision. It has been 
said, by naturalists, that this manoeuvre of poising 



* See p. 43. 







herself on the wing, is to prevent her falling to the 
ground, when the piece gives way ; but as no winged 
insect requires to take any such precaution, our ex- 
planation is probably the true one. 




Rose-leaf-cutter bees, and nest lined with rose-leaves. 

With the piece which she has thus cut out, held in 
a bent position perpendicular to her body, she flies 
otF to her nest, and fits it into the interior with the ut- 
most neatness and ingenuity; and, without employing 
any paste or glue, she trusts, as Reaumur ascertained, 
to the spring the leaf takes, in trying to retain it in its 
position. It requires from nine to twelve pieces of 
leaf to form one cell, as they are not always of pre- 

 



cisely the same thickness. The interior surface of 
each cell consists of three pieces of leaf, of equal size, 
narrow at one end, but gradually widening at the 
other, where the width equals half the length. One 
side of each of the pieces is the serrated margin of 
the leaf from which it was cut, and this margin is 
always placed outermost, and the cut margin inner- 
most. Like most insects, she builds from the inte- 
rior, beginning with a layer of tapestry, which is 
composed of three or four oval pieces, larger in 
dimensions than the rest, adding a second and a 
third layer proportionately smaller. In forming 
these, she is careful not to place a joining opposite to 
a joining, but, with all the skill of a consummate ar- 
tificer, lays the middle of each piece of leaf over the 
margins of the others, so as by this means both to 
cover and strengthen the junctions. By repeating 
this process, she sometimes forms a fourth or fifth 
layer of leaves, taking care to bend the leaves at the 
narrow extremity or closed end of the cell, so as to 
bring them into a convex shape. 

When she has in this manner completed a cell, her 
next business is to replenish it with a store of honey 
and pollen, which, being chiefly collected from thistles, 
forms a beautiful rose-coloured conserve. In this 
she deposits a single egg, and then covers in the 
opening with three pieces of leaf, so exactly circular, 
that a pair of compasses could not define their mar- 
gin with more accuracy. In this manner the indus- 
trious and ingenious upholsterer proceeds till the 
whole gallery is filled, the convex extremity of the 
one fitting into the open end of the next, ancl serving 
both as a basis and as the means of strengthening 
it. If, by any accident, the labour of these insects is 
interrupted or the edifice deranged, they exhibit 
astonishing perseverance in setting it again to rights. 







Insects, indeed, are not easily forced to abandon any 
work which they may have begun. 

The monkish legends tell us that St. Francis 
Xavier, walking one day in a garden, and seeing an 
insect, of the Mantis genus, moving along in its 
solemn way, holding up its two fore legs as in the 
act of devotion, desired it to sing the praises of God. 
The legend adds that the saint immediately heard 
the insect carol a fine canticle with a loud emphasis. 
We want no miraculous voice to record the wonders 
of the Almighty hand, when we regard the insect 
world. The little rose-leaf cutter, pursuing her work 
with the nicest mathematical art — using no artificial 
instruments to form her ovals and her circles — know- 
ing that the elastic property of the leaves will retain 
them in their position — making her nest of equal 
strength throughout, by the most rational adjustment 
of each distinct part — demands from us something 
more than mere wonder; for such an exercise of 
instinctive ingenuity at once directs our admiration 
to the great Contriver, who has so admirably pro- 
portioned her knowledge to her necessities. 







carder-bees; humble-bees; social-wasps. 

The bees and wasps, whose ingenious architecture 
we have already examined, are solitary in their la- 
bours. Those we are about to describe live in so- 
ciety. The perfection of the social state among this 
class of insects is certainly that of the hive-bees. 
They are the inhabitants of a large city, where the 
arts are carried to a higher excellence than in small 
districts, enjoying little communication of intelli- 
gence. But the bees of the villages, if we may follow 
up the parallel, are not without their interest. Such 
are those which are called carder-bees and humble 
bees. 

Carder-Bees, 

The nests of the bees which Reaumur denomi- 
nates carders ( Bombus muscorum , Latr.), are by no 
means uncommon, and are well worth the study of 
the naturalist. During the hay harvest, they are fre- 
quently met with by mowers in the open fields and 
meadows ; but they may sometimes be discovered in 
hedge-banks, the borders of copses, or among moss- 
grown stones. The description of the mode of build- 
ing adopted by this bee has been copied by most of our 
writers on insects from Reaumur ; though he is not a 
little severe on those who write, without having ever 
had a single nest in their possession. We have been 
able to avoid such a reproach ; for we have now before 






ns a very complete nest of carder-bees, which differs 
from those described by Reaumur, in being made, not 
of moss, but withered grass. With this exception, 
we find that his account agrees accurately with our 
own observations*. 

The carder-bees select for their nest a shallow ex- 
cavation about half a foot in diameter ; but when they 
cannot find one to suit their purpose, they under- 
take the Herculean task of digging one themselves. 
They cover this hollow w T ith a dome of moss — some- 
times, as we have ascertained, of withered grass. 
They make use, indeed, of whatever materials maybe 
within their reach ; for they do not attempt to bring 
any thing from a distance, not even when they are 
deprived of the greater portion by an experimental 
naturalist. Their only method of transporting ma- 
terials to the building is by pushing them along the 
ground — the bee, for that purpose, working back- 
wards, with its head turned from the nest. If there 
is only one bee engaged in this labour, as usually 
happens in the early spring, when a nest is founded 
by a solitary female who has outlived the winter, she 
transports her little bundles of moss or grass by suc- 
cessive backward pushes, till she gets them home. 

In the latter part of the season, when the hive is 
populous and can afford more hands, there is an in- 
genious division of this labour. A file of bees, to the 
number sometimes of half a dozen, is established, 
from the nest to the moss or grass which they intend 
to use, the heads of all the file of bees being turned 
from the nest and towards the material. The last 
bee of the file lays hold of some of the moss with 
her mandibles, disentangles it from the rest, and 
having carded it with her fore-legs into a sort of felt 
or small bundle, she pushes it under her body to the 







* J. R. 






next bee, who passes it in the same manner to the 
next, and so on till it is brought to the border of the 
nest, — in the same way as we sometimes see sugar- 
loaves conveyed from a cart to a warehouse, by a file 
of porters throwing them from one to another. 




Fig. A represents two carder-bees heckling moss for their nests. 
B, exterior view of the nest of the carder-bee. 



The elevation of the dome, which is all built from 
the interior, is from four to six inches above the 
level of the field. Beside the moss or grass, they 
frequently employ coarse wax to form the ceiling of 
the vault, for the purpose of keeping out rain, and 



 



preventing high winds from destroying it. Before 
this finishing is given to the nest, we have re- 
marked, that on a fine sunshiny day, the upper 
portion of the dome was opened to the extent of 
more than an inch, in order, we suppose, to forward 
the hatching of the eggs in the interior ; but on the 
approach of night this was carefully covered in 
again. It was remarkable that the opening which 
we have just mentioned was never used by the bees 
for either their entrance or their exit from the nest, 
though they were all at work there, and, of course, 
would have found it the readiest and easiest passage. 
But they invariably made their exit and their entrance 
through the covert-way or gallery which opens at 
the bottom of the nest, and, in some nests, is about a 
foot long and half an inch wide. This is, no doubt, 
intended for concealment, from field-mice, polecats, 
wasps, and other depredators. 

On removing a portion of the dome and bringing 
the interior of the structure into view, we find little 
of the architectural regularity so conspicuous in the 
combs of a common bee-hive : instead of this sym- 
metry, there are only a few egg-shaped, dark-coloured 
cells, placed somewhat irregularly, but approaching 
more to the horizontal than to the vertical position, 
and connected together with small amorphous * 
columns of brown wax. Sometimes there are two or 
three of these oval cells placed one above another, 
without anything to unite them. 

These cells are not, however, the workmanship of 
the old bees, but of their young grubs, who spin 
them when they are about to change into nymphs. 
But, from these cases, when they are spun, the en- 
closed insects have no means of escaping, and they 
depend for their liberation on the old bees gnawing 



* Shapeless. 



 



off the covering’, as is done also by ants in the 
same circumstances. The instinct with which they 
know the precise time when it is proper to do this 
is truly wonderful. It is no less so, that these 
cocoons are by no means useless when thus un- 
tenanted, for they subsequently serve for honey-pots, 
and are indeed the only store-cells in the nest. For 
this purpose the edge of the cell is repaired and 
strengthened with a ring of wax. 




Breeding-Cells. 



The true breeding-cells are contained in several 
amorphous masses of brown-coloured wax, varying 
in dimensions, but of a somewhat flat and globular 
shape. On opening any of these, a number of eggs 
or ffrubs are found, on whose account the mother 
bee has collected the masses of wax, which also con- 
tain a supply of pollen moistened with honey, for 
their subsistence. 

The number of eggs or grubs found in one sphe- 
roid of wax varies from three to thirty, and the bees 
in a whole nest seldom exceed sixty. There are 
three sizes of bees, of which the females are the 
largest; but neither these nor the males are, as in 
the case of the hive-bee, exempt from labour. The 
females, indeed, always found the nests, since they 
alone survive the winter, all the rest perishing with 
cold. In each nest, also, are several females, that 
live in harmony together. 








Interior views of Carder-bee’s Nest. 



The carder-bees may be easily distinguished from 
their congeners (of the same genus), by being not 
unlike the colour of the withered moss with which 
they build their nests, having the fore part of their 
back a dull orange, and hinder part ringed with dif- 
ferent shades of greyish yellow. They are not so 
large as the common humble-bee ( Bombas terrestris, 
Latr.), but rather shorter and thicker in the body 
than the common hive-bee {Apis mellifica). 






*0 

> Lapidary-Bees. 

A bee still more common, perhaps, than the carder, 
is the orange-tailed bee, or lapidary ( Bombus lapi- 
daria), readily known by its general black colour and 
reddish orange tail. It builds its nest sometimes in 
stony ground, but prefers a heap of stones such as 
are gathered off grass fields, or are piled up near 
quarries. Unlike the carder, the lapidary carries to its 
nest bits of moss, which are very neatly arranged into 
a regular oval. These insects associate in their 
labours ; and they make honey with great industry. 
The individuals of a nest are more numerous than 
the carders, and likewise more pertinaciously vin- 
dictive. About two years ago, we discovered a nest 
of these bees at Compton-Basset, in Wiltshire, in the 
centre of a heap of limestone rubbish ; but owing 
to the brisk defensive warfare of their legionaries, 
we could not obtain a view of the interior. It was 
not even safe to approach within many yards of the 
place, and we do not exaggerate when we say that 
several of them pursued us most pertinaciously about 
a quarter of a mile *. 

Humble-Bees. 

The common humble-bee ( Bombus terrestris ) is 
precisely similar in its economy to the two preceding 
species, with this difference, that it forms its nest 
underground like the common wasp, in an excavated 
chamber, to which a winding passage leads, of from 
one to two feet, and of a diameter sufficient to allow 
of two bees passing. The cells have no covering 
beside the vault of the excavation and patches of 
coarse wax similar to that of the carder- bee. 



* J. R. 







Social-Wasps. 

The nest of the common wasp ( Vespa vulgaris) 
attracts more or less the attention of everybody ; but 
its interior architecture is not so well known as it 
deserves to be, for its singular ingenuity, in which it 
rivals even that of the hive-bee ( Apis mellifica). 
In their general economy, the social, or republican 
wasps, closely resemble the humble-bee ( Bombus ), 
every colony being founded by a single female who 
has survived the winter, to the rigours of which all 
her summer associates of males and working wasps 
uniformly fall victims. Nay, out of three hundred 
females which may be found in one vespiary, or 
wasp’s nest, towards the close of autumn, scarcely ten 
or a dozen survive till the ensuing spring, at which 
season they awake from their hybernal lethargy, and 
begin with ardour the labours of colonization. 

It may be interesting to follow one of these mo- 
ther wasps through her several operations, in which 
she merits more the praise of industry than the queen 
of a bee-hive, who does nothing, and never moves 
without a numerous train of obedient retainers, al- 
ways ready to execute her commands and to do her 
homage. The mother wasp, on the contrary, is at 
first alone, and is obliged to perform every species 
of drudgery herself. 

Her first care, after being roused to activity by the 
returning warmth of the season, is to discover a 
place suitable for her intended colony ; and, ac- 
cordingly, in the spring, wasps may be seen prying 
into every hole of a hedge bank, particularly where 
field-mice have burrowed. Some authors report 
that she is partial to the forsaken galleries of the 
mole, but this does not accord with our observations, 
as we have never met with a single vespiary in any 
situation likely to have been frequented by moles. 






But though we cannot assert the fact, we think it 
highly probable that the deserted nest of the field- 
mouse, which is not uncommon in hedge banks, may 
be sometimes appropriated by a mother wasp as an 
excavation convenient for her purpose. Yet, if she 
does make choice of the burrow of a field-mouse, it 
requires to be afterwards considerably enlarged in 
the interior chamber, and the entrance gallery very 
much narrowed. 

The desire of the wasp to save herself the labour 
of excavation, by forming her nest where other ani- 
mals have burrowed, is not without a parallel in the 
actions of quadrupeds, and even of birds. In the 
splendid continuation of Wilson’s American Orni- 
thology, by Charles L. Bonaparte (whose scientific 
pursuits have thrown round that name a beneficent 
lustre, pleasingly contrasted with his uncle’s glory), 
there is an interesting example of this instinctive 
adoption of the labours of others. “ In the trans- 
Mississippian territories of the United States, the 
burrowing-owl resides exclusively in the villages 
of the marmot, or prairie-dog, whose excavations 
are so commodious, as to render it unnecessary 
that the owl should dig for himself, as he is 
said to do where no burrowing animals exist'". 
The villages of the prairie-dog are very nume- 
rous and variable in their extent, — sometimes 
covering only a few acres, and at others spreading 
over the surface of the country for miles together. 
They are composed of slightly-elevated mounds, 
having the form of a truncated cone, about two feet 
in width at the base, and seldom rising as high as 
eighteen inches from the surface of the soil. The 

* The owl observed by Vieillot in St. Domingo digs itself a 
burrow two feet in depth, at the bottom of which it deposits its 
eggs upon a bed of moss. 







entrance is placed either at the top or on the side, 
and the whole mound is beaten down externally, 
especially at the summit, resembling a much-used 
footpath. From the entrance, the passage into the 
mound descends vertically for one or two feet, and 
is thence continued obliquely downwards until it ter- 
minates in an apartment, within which the industrious 
prairie-dog constructs, on the approach of cold 
weather, a comfortable cell for his winter’s sleep. 
The cell, which is composed of fine dry grass, is 
globular in form, with an opening at top, capable of 
admitting the finger ; and the whole is so firmly 
compacted, that it might, without injury, be rolled 
over the floor*.” 

In case of need the wasp is abundantly fur- 
nished by nature with instruments for excavating a 
burrow out of the solid ground, as she no doubt 
most commonly does, — digging the earth with her 
strong mandibles, and carrying it off or pushing it 
out as she proceeds. The entrance-gallery is about 
an inch or less in diameter, and usually runs in a 
winding or zigzag direction, from one to two feet in 
depth. In the chamber to which this gallery leads, 
and which, when completed, is from one to two feet 
in diameter, the mother wasp lays the foundations of 
her city, beginning with the walls. 

The building materials employed by wasps were 
long a matter of conjecture to scientific inquirers ; for 
the bluish-grey papery substance of the whole struc- 
ture has no resemblance to any sort of wax employed 
by bees for a similar purpose. Now that the discovery 
has been made, we can with difficulty bring our- 
selves to believe that a naturalist so acute and inde- 
fatigable as M. Reaumur should have, for twenty 
years, as he tells us, endeavoured, without success, 

* American Ornithology, by Charles Lucien Bonaparte. Vol. i. 
p. G9. 





to find out the secret. At length, however, his per- 
severance was rewarded. He remarked a female 
wasp alight on the sash of his window, and begin to 
gnaw the wood with her mandibles ; and it struck 
him at once that she was procuring materials for 
building. He saw her detach from the wood a 
bundle of fibres about a tenth of an inch in length, 
and finer than a hair ; and as she did not swallow 
these, but gathered them into a mass with her feet, 
he could not doubt that his first idea was correct. 
In a short time she shifted to another part of the 
window-frame, carrying with her the fibres she had 
collected, and to which she continued to add, when 
he caught her, in order to examine the nature of her 
bundle ; and he found that it was not yet moistened 
nor rolled into a ball, as is always done before em- 
ploying it in building. In every other respect it 
had precisely the same colour and fibrous texture 
as the walls of a vespiary. It struck him as remark- 
able that it bore no resemblance to wood gnawed 
by other insects, such as the goat-moth caterpillar, 
which is granular like sawdust. This would not 
have suited the design of the wasp, who was well 
aware that fibres of some length form a stronger 
texture. He even discovered, that before detaching 
the fibres, she bruised them ( les charpissoit) into a 
sort of lint ( charpie ) with her mandibles. All this 
the careful naturalist imitated by bruising and paring 
the same wood of the window-sash with his pen- knife, 
till he succeeded in making a little bundle of fibres 
scarcely to be distinguished from that collected by the 
wasp. 

We have ourselves frequently seen wasps em- 
ployed in procuring their materials in this manner, 
and have always observed that they shift from one 
part to another more than once in preparing a single 
load, — a circumstance which we ascribe entirely to 







the restless temper peculiar to the whole order of 
hymenopterous insects. Reaumur found that the 
wood which they preferred was such as had been 
long exposed to the weather, and is old and dry. 
White of Selborne, and Kirby and Spence, on the 
contrary, maintain that wasps obtain their paper 
from sound timber, hornets only from that which is 
decayed*. Our own observations, however, confirm 
the statement of Reaumur, with respect to wasps, as, 
in every instance which has fallen under our notice, 
the wood selected was very much weathered ; and in 
one case an old oak post in a garden at Lee, in 
Kent, half destroyed by dry-rot, was seemingly the 
resort of all the wasps in the vicinity. In another 
case, the deal bond in a brick wall, which had been 
built thirty years, is at this moment (June, 1829) 
literally striped with the gnawings of wasps, which 
we have watched at the work for hours together!*. 

The bundles of ligneous fibres thus detached, are 
moistened, before being used, with a glutinous liquid, 
which causes them to adhere together, and are then 
kneaded into a sort of paste, or papier mache. 
Having prepared some of this material, the mother 
wasp begins first to line with it the roof of her 
chamber, for wasps always build downwards. The 
round ball of fibres which she has previously kneaded 
up with glue, she now forms into a leaf, walking 
backwards, and spreading it out with her mandibles, 
her tongue, and her feet, till it is as thin almost as 
tissue paper. 

One sheet, however, of such paper as this would 
form but a fragile ceiling, quite insufficient to pre- 
vent the earth from falling down into the nest. The 
wasp, accordingly, is not satisfied with her work 

* Reaumur, vol. vi. bottom of page 182; Hist, of Selb. ii. 
228 ; and Inlrod. to Entomol. i. 504, 5th edition. 

f J. R. 







till she has spread fifteen or sixteen layers one above 
the other, rendering the wall altogether nearly two 
inches thick. The several layers are not placed in 
contact like the layers of a piece of pasteboard, but 
with small intervals or open spaces between, ap- 
pearing somewhat like a grotto built with bivalve 
shells, particularly when looked at on the outside. 
This is probably caused by the insect working in a 
curvilineal manner. 




Section of the Social-Wasp’s Nest.— a a, the external wall ; 
Z>, c c, five small terraces of cells lor the neuter wasps ; rfrf.ee, 
three rows of larger cells for the males and females. 



Having finished the ceiling, she next begins to 
build the first terrace of her city, which, under its 






protection, she suspends horizontally, and not like 
the combs in a bee-hive, in a perpendicular position. 
The suspension of which we speak is also light and 
elegant, compared with the more heavy union of the 
hive-bees’ combs. It is in fact a hanging floor, 
immoveably secured by rods of similar materials 
with the roof, but rather stronger. From twelve to 
thirty of these rods, about an inch or less in length, 
and a quarter of an inch in diameter, are constructed 

A B 



A, represents one of the rods f rom which the terraces are sus- 
pended. B, a portion of the external crust. 

for the suspension of the terrace. They are elegant 
in form, being made gradually narrower towards the 
middle, and widening at each end, in order, no doubt, 
to render their hold the stronger. 

The terrace itself is circular, and composed of an 
immense number of cells, formed of the paper al- 
ready described, and of almost the same size and 
form as those of a honey-comb, each being a perfect 
hexagon, mathematically exact, and every hair’s 
breadth of the space completely filled. These cells, 
however, are never used as honey-pots by wasps, as 
they are by bees ; for wasps make no honey, and 
the cells are wholly appropriated to the rearing of 
their young. Like other hymenopterous insects, the 
grubs are placed with their heads downwards; and 
the openings of the cells are also downwards : while 





their united bottoms form a nearly uniform level 
upon which the inhabitants of the nest may walk. 
We have seen, in describing 1 the economy of the 
carder-bee, that when a young bee had escaped from 
its cradle-cell, and so rendered it empty, that cell was 
subsequently appropriated to the storing of honey. 
But in the case of wasps, a cell thus evacuated is 
immediately cleaned out and repaired for the recep- 
tion of another grub — an egg being laid in it by a 
female wasp as soon as it is ready. 

When the foundress wasp has completed a certain 
number of cells, and deposited eggs in them, she 
soon intermits her building operations, in order to 
procure food for the young grubs, which now require 
all her care. In a few weeks these become perfect 
wasps, and lend their assistance in the extension of 
the edifice ; enlarging the original coping of the 
foundress by side walls, and forming another plat- 
form of cells, suspended to the first by columns, as 
that had been suspended to the ceiling. 

In this manner several platforms of combs are 
constructed, the outer walls being extended at the 
same time; and, by the end of the summer, there is 
generally from twelve to fifteen platforms of cells. 
Each contains about 10G0 cells — forty-nine being' 
contained in an inch and a half square, and, of course, 
making the enormous number of about 1G,000 cells 
in one colony. Reaumur, upon these data, calculates 
that one vespiary may produce every year more than 
30,000 wasps, reckoning only 10,000 cells, and each 
serving successively for the cradle of three genera- 
tions. But, although the whole structure is built at 
the expense of so much labour and ingenuity, it has 
scarcely been finished before the winter sets in, when 
it becomes nearly useless, and serves only for the 
abode of a few benumbed females, who abandon it 
on the approach of spring, and never return ; for 






wasps do not, like mason-bees, ever make use of the 
same nest for more than one season. 

Both Reaumur and the younger Huber studied 
the proceedings of the common wasp in the manner 
which has been so successful in observing bees — by 
means of glazed hives, and other contrivances. In 
this, these naturalists were greatly aided by the ex- 
treme affection of wasps for their young; for though 
their nest is carried off, or even cut in various direc- 
tions, and exposed to the light, they never desert it, 
nor relax their attention to their progeny. When a 
wasp’s nest is removed from its natural situation, and 
covered with a glass hive, the first operation of the 
inhabitants is to repair the injuries it has suffered. 
They carry off with surprising activity all the earth 
or other matters which have fallen by accident into 
the nest ; and when they have got it thoroughly 
cleared of everything extraneous, they begin to se- 
cure it from further derangement, by fixing it to the 
glass with papyraceous columns, similar to those 
which we have already described. The breaches 
which the nest may have suffered are then repaired, 
and the thickness of the walls is augmented, with 
the design, perhaps, of more effectually excluding 
the light. 

The nest of the hornet is nearly the same in struc- 
ture with that of the wasp ; but the materials are 
considerably coarser, and the columns to which the 
platforms of cells are suspended are larger and 
stronger, the middle one being twice as thick as any 
of the others. The hornet, also, does not build 
under ground, but in the cavities of trees, or in 
the thatch or under the eaves of barns. Reaumur 
once found upon a wall a hornet’s nest which had 
not been long begun, and had it transferred to the 
outside of his study window; but in consequence. 







as he imagined, of the absence of the foundress 
hornet at the time it was removed, he could not get 
the other five hornets, of which the colony consisted, 
either to add to the building or repair the damages 
which it had sustained. 




Hornet's Nest in its Jirst stage. 



M. Reaumur differs from our English naturalists, 
White, Kirby, and Spence, with respect to the ma- 
terials employed by the hornet for building. The 
latter say that it employs decayed wood ; the former, 
that it uses the bark of the ash-tree, but takes less 
pains to split it into fine fibres than wasps do ; not, 
however, because it is destitute of skill ; for in con- 
structing the suspensory columns of the platforms, a 
paste is prepared little inferior to that made by wasps. 
We cannot, from our own observations, decide which 





of the above statements is correct, as we have only 
once seen a hornet procuring' materials, at Compton- 
Bassett, in Wiltshire ; and in that case it g’nawecl the 
inner bark of an elm which had been felled for seve- 
ral months, and was, consequently, dry and tough. 
Such materials as this would account for the common 
yellowish-brown colour of a hornet’s nest*. 

When hornets make choice of a tree for their do- 
micile, they select one which is in a state of decay, 
and already partly hollowed : but they possess the 
means, in their sharp and strong mandibles, of ex- 
tending the excavation to suit their purposes ; and 
Reaumur frequently witnessed their operations in 
mining into a decayed tree, and carrying off* what 
they had gnawed. He observed, also, that in such 
cases they did not make use of the large hole of the 
tree for an entrance, but went to the- trouble of die;- 
ging a gallery, sufficient for the passage of the largest 
hornet in the nest, through the living and undecayed 
portion of the tree. As this is perforated in a wind- 
ing direction, it is no doubt intended for the purpose 
of protecting the nest from the intrusion of depre- 
dators, who could more easily effect an entrance if 
there were not such a tortuous Avay to pass through. 

One of the most remarkable of our native social- 
wasps is the Vespa britannica , or tree-wasp, which is 
not uncommon in the northern, but is seldom to be 
met with in the southern parts of the island. Instead 
of burrowing in the ground like the common wasp 
( Vespa vulgaris ), or in the hollows of trees like the 
hornet ( Vespa crabro ), it boldly swings its nest from 
the extremity of a branch, where it exhibits some 
resemblance, in size and colour, to a Welsh wig, 
hung out to dry. We have seen more than one of 
these nests on the some tree, at Catrine, in Ayrshire, 

* J. R. 







and at Wemyss Bay, in Renfrewshire. The tree 
which the Britannic wasp prefers is the silver fir, 
whose broad fiat branch serves as a protection to the 
suspended nest both from the sun and the rain. The 
materials and structure are nearly the same as those 
employed by the common wasp, and which we have 
already described*. 

A singular nest of a species of wasp is figured by 
Reaumur, but is apparently rare in this country, as 
Kirby and Spence mention only a single nest of similar 
construction, found in a garden at East-Dale. This 
nest is of a flattened globular figure, and composed 
of a great number of envelopes, so as to assume a 
considerable resemblance to a half-expanded Provence 
rose. The British specimen mentioned by Kirby and 
Spence had only one platform of cells ; Reaumur’s 
had two ; but there was a large vacant space, which 
would probably have been filled with cells, had the 
nest not been taken away as a specimen. The whole 




IF asp's Nest. 

* J. R. 






nest was not much larger than a rose, and was com- 
posed of paper exactly similar to that employed by 
the common ground- wasp. 

There is another species of social-wasp (Epipone 
nidulans, Latr.) meriting attention from the singu- 
lar construction of its nest. It forms one or more 
terraces of cells, similar to those of the common wasp, 
but without the protection of an outer wall, and quite 
exposed to the weather. Swammerdam found a nest 
of this description attached to the stem of a nettle. 
Reaumur says they are sometimes attached to the 
branch of a thorn or other shrub, or to stalks of grass ; 
— peculiarities which prove that there are several 
species of these wasps. 

The most remarkable circumstance in the arclii- 

» 




PFasp’f Cells attached to a branch* 








tecture of this species of vespiary is, that it is 
not horizontal, like those formerly described, but 
nearly vertical. The reason appears to be, that 
if it had been horizontal, the cells must have 
been frequently filled with rain ; whereas, in the 
position in which it is placed, the rain runs off 
without lodging. It is, besides, invariably placed 
so as to face the north or the east, and conse- 
quently is less exposed to rains, which most fre- 
quently come with southerly or westerly winds. It 
is another remarkable peculiarity, that unlike the nests 
of other wasps, it is covered with a shining coat of 
varnish, to prevent moisture from soaking into the 
texture of the wasp’s paper. The laying on this 
varnish, indeed, forms a considerable portion of the 
labour of the colony, and individuals may be seen 
employed for hours together spreading it on with 
their tongues. 

Few circumstances are more striking with regard 
to insects, as Kirby and Spence justly remark, than 
the great and incessant labour which maternal 
affection for their progeny leads them to undergo. 
Some of these exertions are so disproportionate to 
the size of the insect, that nothing short of ocular 
conviction could attribute them to such an agent. A 
wild bee, or a wasp, for instance, as we have seen, 
will dig a hole in a hard bank of earth some inches 
deep, and five or six times its own size, labouring un- 
remittingly at this arduous task for several days in 
succession, and scarcely allowing itself a moment for 
eating or repose. It will then occupy as much time 
in searching for a store of food ; and no sooner is 
this finished, than it will set about repeating the pro- 
cess, and before it dies, will have completed five or 
six similar cells, or even more. 

We shall have occasion more particularly to dwell 







upon the geometrical arrangement of the cells, both 
of the wasp and the social bee, in our description 
of those interesting operations, which have long at- 
tracted the notice, and commanded the admiration, 
of mathematicians and naturalists. A few observa- 
tions may here be properly bestowed upon the ma- 
terial with which the wasp-family construct the in- 
terior of their nests. 

The wasp is a paper-maker, and a most perfect 
and intelligent one. While mankind were arriving, 
by slow degrees, at the art of fabricating this valu- 
able substance, the wasp was making it before their 
eyes, by very much the same process as that by 
which human hands now manufacture it with the 
best aid of chemistry and machinery. While some 
nations carved their records on wood, and stone, and 
brass, and leaden tablets, — others, more advanced, 
wrote with a style on wax, — others employed the inner 
bark of trees, and others the skins of animals rudely 
prepared, — the wasp was manufacturing a firm and 
durable paper. Even when the papyrus was rendered 
more fit, by a process of art, for the transmission of 
ideas in writing, the wasp was a better artisan than 
the Egyptians ; for the early attempts at paper- 
making were so rude, that the substance produced 
Avas almost useless, from being extremely friable. 
The paper of the papyrus was formed of the leaves 
of the plant, dried, pressed, and polished; the wasp 
alone knew how to reduce vegetable fibres to a 
pulp, and then unite them by a size or glue, spread- 
ing the substance out into a smooth and delicate 
leaf. This is exactly the process of paper-making. 
It would seem that the wasp knows, as the modern 
paper-makers now know, that the fibres of rags, 
whether linen or cotton, are not the only materials 
that can be used in the formation of paper ; she em- 
ploys other vegetable matters, converting them into 

i 







a proper consistency by her assiduous exertions. In 
some respects she is more skilful even than our 
paper-makers, for she takes care to retain her fibres 
of sufficient length, by which she renders her paper 
as strong as she requires. Many manufacturers of 
the present day cut their material into small bits, and 
thus produce a rotten article. One great distinction 
between good and bad paper is its toughness ; and 
this difference is invariably produced by the fibre of 
which it is composed being long, and therefore tough ; 
or short, and therefore friable. 

The wasp has been labouring at her manufacture 
of paper, from her first creation, with precisely the 
same instruments and the same materials ; and her 
success has been unvarying. Her machinery is 
very simple, and therefore it is never out of order. 
She learns nothing, and she forgets nothing. Men, 
from time to time, lose their excellence in particular 
arts, and they are slow in finding out real improve- 
ments. Such improvements are often the effect of ac- 
cident. Paper is now manufactured very extensively 
by machinery, in all its stages ; and thus, instead of 
a single sheet being made by hand, a stream of paper 
is poured out, which would form a roll large enough 
to extend round the globe, if such a length were de- 
sirable. The inventors of this machinery, Messrs. 
Fourdrinier, it is said, spent the enormous sum 
of 40,000/. in vain attempts to render the machine 
capable of determining with precision the width of 
the roll ; and, at last, accomplished their object, 
at the suggestion of a bystander, by a strap re- 
volving upon an axis, at a cost of three shillings 
and sixpence. Such is the difference between the 
workings of human knowledge and experience, and 
those of animal instinct. We proceed slowly and in 
the dark — but our course is not bounded by a nar- 
row line, for it seems difficult to say what is the per- 







fection of any art; animals go clearly to a given 
point — but they can go no further. We may, how- 
ever, learn something from their perfect knowledge 
of what is within their range. It is not improbable 
that if man had attended in an earlier state of society 
to the labours of wasps, he would have sooner known 
how to make paper. We are still behind in our 
arts and sciences, because we have not always been 
observers. If we had watched the operations of in- 
sects, and the structure of animals in general, with 
more care, we might have been far advanced in the 
knowledge of many arts, which are yet in their in- 
fancy, for nature has given us abundance of patterns. 
We have learnt to perfect some instruments of sound, 
by examining the structure of the human ear ; and 
the mechanism of an eye has suggested some valu- 
able improvements in achromatic glasses. 



Reaumur has given a very interesting account of the 
wasps of Cayenne, which hang their nests in trees*. 
Like the bird of Africa called the Loxia, they fabricate 
a perfect house, capable of containing many hundreds 
of their community, and suspend it on high out of 
the reach of attack. But the Cayenne wasp is a 
more expert artist than the bird. He is a card- 
maker ; — and travellers of veracity agree that the 
card with which he forms the exterior covering of his 
abode is so smooth, so strong, so uniform in its 
texture, and so white, that the most skilful manu- 
facturer of this substance might be proud of the 
work. 

! The nest of the card-making wasp is impervious 
to water. It hangs upon the branch of a tree, as 
represented in the engraving ; and those rain-drops 






* Memoires sur les Insectes, tom vi., mem. vii. See also Bonnet, 
I vol. ix. 




 

which penetrate through the leaves never rest upon 
its hard and polished surface. A small opening for 
the entrance of the insects terminates its funnel- 
shaped bottom. It is impossible to unite more per- 
fectly the qualities of lightness and strength. 



Nest of the Card-maher IV asp, with part removed to shew the arrangement 

of the Cells. J 








Part of a honeycomb, and, bees at worli. 

Although the hive-bee (Apis mdlijica ) has engaged 
the attention of the curious from the earliest ages, 
recent discoveries prove that we are yet only begin- 
ning to arrive at a correct knowledge of its wonderful 
proceedings. Pliny informs us that Aristomachus, of 
Soles, in Cilicia, devoted fifty-eight years to the 
study ; and that Philiscus the Thracian spent his 
whole life in forests for the purpose of observing 
them. But in consequence (as we may naturally 
infer) of the imperfect methods of research, as- 





suming that what they did discover was known to 
Aristotle, Columella, and Pliny, we are justified in 
pronouncing the statements of these philosophers, as 
well as the embellished poetical pictures of Virgil, to 
be nothing more than conjecture, almost in every par- 
ticular erroneous. It was not indeed till 1712, when 
glass hives were invented by Maraldi, a mathema- 
tician of Nice, that w r hat we may call the in-door 
proceedings of bees could be observed. This im- 
portant invention was soon afterwards taken advan- 
tage of by M. Reaumur, who laid the foundation of 
the more recent discoveries of John Hunter, Schi- 
rach, and the Hubers. The admirable architecture 
which bees exhibit in their miniature cities has, by 
these and other naturalists, been investigated with 
great care and accuracy. We shall endeavour to 
give as full an account of their wonderful structures 
as our limits will allow. In this we shall chiefly 
follow M. Huber, the elder, whose researches appear 
almost miraculous when we consider that he was 
blind. 

At the early age of seventeen this remarkable man 
lost his sight by gutta serejia, “ the drop serene” of 
our own Milton. But, though cutoff from the sight of 
Nature’s works, he dedicated himself to their study. 
He saw them through the eyes of the admirable 
woman whom he married ; his philosophical reason- 
ings pointed out to her all that he wanted to ascer- 
tain ; and as she reported to him from time to time 
the results of his ingenious experiments, he was en- 
abled to complete, by diligent investigation, one 
of the most accurate and satisfactory accounts of 
the habits of bees which has ever been produced. 
This venerable naturalist is, we believe, still alive. 

It had long been known that the bees of a hive 
consist of three sorts, which were ascertained by 






M. Reaumur to be distinguished as workers or 
neuters, constituting the bulk of the population ; 
drones or males, the least numerous class ; and a sin- 
gle female, the queen and mother of the colony. Schi- 
rach subsequently discovered the very extraordinary 
fact, which Huber and others have proved beyond 
doubt, that when a hive is accidentally deprived of a 
queen, the grub of a worker can be and is fed in 
a particular manner, so as to become a queen and 
supply the loss*. But another discovery of M. Hu- 
ber is of more importance to the subject of archi- 
tecture now before us. By minute research he ascer- 
tained, that the workers, which had been considered 
by former naturalists to be all alike, are divided 
into two important classes, nurse-bees and wax- 
makers. 

The nurse-bees are rather smaller than the wax- 
workers, and even when gorged with honey their 
belly does not, as in the others, appear distended. 
Their business is to collect honey, and impart it to 
their companions ; to feed and take care of the young 
grubs, and to complete the combs and cells which 
have been founded by the others ; but they are not 
charged with provisioning the hive. 

The wax-workers on the other hand are not only 
a little larger, but their stomach, when gorged with 
honey, is capable of considerable distension, as M. 
Huber proved by repeated experiments. He also 
ascertained that neither of the species can alone 
fulfil all the functions shared among the workers of 
a hive. He painted those of each class with different 
colours, in order to study their proceedings, and their 
labours were not interchanged. In another expert- 

* It is right to remark that Huish and others have suggested 
that the grubs thus royalized may originally be misplaced queens ; 
yet this admission is not necessary, since Madlle. Jurine has 
proved, by dissection, the workers to be imperfect females. 







ment, after supplying a hive deprived of a queen with 
brood and pollen, he saw the nurse-bees quickly oc- 
cupied in the nutrition of the grubs, while those of 
the wax-working class neglected them. When hives 
are full of combs, the wax-workers disgorge their 
honey into the ordinary magazines, making no wax : 
but if they want a reservoir for its reception, and if 
their queen does not find cells ready made wherein 
to lay her eggs, they retain the honey in the stomach, 
and in twenty-four hours they produce wax. Then 
the labour of constructing combs begins. 

It might perhaps be supposed that, when the country 
does not afford honey, the wax-workers consume 
the provision stored up in the hive. But they are 
not permitted to touch it. A portion of honey is 
carefully preserved, and the cells containing it are 
protected by a waxen covering, which is never re- 
moved except in case of extreme necessity, and 
when honey is not to be otherwise procured. The 
cells are at no time opened during summer ; 
other reservoirs, always exposed, contribute to the 
daily use of the community ; each bee, however, sup- 
plying itself from them with nothing but what is 
required for present wants. Wax- workers appear 

with large bellies at the entrance of their hive, only 
when the country affords a copious collection of 
honey. From this it may be concluded, that the 
production of the waxy matter depends on a concur- 
rence of circumstances not invariably subsisting. 
Nurse-bees also produce wax, but in a very inferior 
quantity to what is elaborated by the real wax-workers. 
Another characteristic whereby an attentive observer 
can determine the moment of bees collecting sufficient 
honey to produce wax, is the strong odour of both 
these substances from the hive, which is not equally 
intense at any other time. From such data, it was 
easy for M. Huber to discover whether the bees 







worked in wax in his own hives, and in those of the 
other cultivators of the district. 

There is still another sort of bees, first observed by 
Huber in 1809, which appear to be only casual in- 
mates of the hive, and which are driven forth to 
starve, or are killed in conflict. They closely resem- 
ble the ordinary workers, but are less hairy, and of 
a much darker colour. These have been called 
black bees , and are supposed by Huber to be defec- 
tive bees * ; but Kirby and Spence conjecture that 
they are toil-worn superannuated workers, of no 
farther use, and are therefore sacrificed, because bur- 
densome to a community which tolerates no un- 
necessary inmates. The very great numbers of 
black bees, however, which sometimes appear, does 
not well accord with such an opinion. The subject 
remains, therefore, still in uncertainty. 



Preparation of Wax. 

In order to build the beautiful combs, which every 
one must have repeatedly seen and admired, it is 
indispensable that the architect-bees should be pro- 
vided with the materials — with the wax, in short, of 
which they are principally formed. Before we follow 
them, therefore, to the operation of building, it may 
be necessary to inquire how the wax itself is pro- 
cured. Here the discoveries of recent inquirers have 
been little less singular and unexpected than in other 
departments of the history of these extraordinary in- 
sects. Now that it has been proved that wax is 
secreted by bees, it is not a little amusing to read 
the accounts given by our elder naturalists, of 
its being collected from flowers. Our countryman, 



* Huber on Bees, p. 338, 







Thorley *, appears to have been the first who suspected 
the true origin of wax, and Wildman (1769) seems 
also to have been aware of it ; but Reaumur, and 
particularly Bonnet, though both of them in general 
shrewd and accurate observers, were partially de- 
ceived by appearances. 

The bees, we are erroneously told, search for wax 
“ upon all sorts of trees and plants, but especially 
the rocket, the single poppy, and in general all kinds 
of flowers. They amass it with their hair, with 
which their whole body is invested. It is something 
pleasant to see them roll in the yellow dust which 
falls from the chives to the bottom of the flowers, 
and then return covered with the same grains ; but 
their best method of gathering the wax, especially 
when it is not very plentiful, is to carry away all the 
little particles of it with their jaws and fore feet, to 
press the wax upon them into little pellets, and slide 
them, one at a time, with their middle feet, into a 
socket or cavity, that opens at their hinder feet, and 
serves to keep the burden fixed and steady till they 
return home. They are sometimes exposed to incon- 
veniences in this work by the motion of the air, and 
the delicate texture of the flowers which bend under 
their feet, and hinder them from packing up their 
booty, on which occasions they fix themselves in some 
steady place, where they press the wax into a mass, 
and wind it round their legs, making frequent re- 
turns to the flowers; and when they have stocked 
themselves with a sufficient quantity, they imme- 
diately repair to their habitation. Two men, in the 
compass of a whole day, could not amass so much 
as two little balls of wax ; and yet they are no more 
than the common burthen of a single bee, and the 
produce of one journey. Those who are employed 



* Melisselogia, or Fe nale Monarc'iy, 8vo., Lond. 1744. 







in collecting* the wax from flowers are assisted by 
their companions, who attend them at the door of 
the hive, ease them of their load at their arrival, 
brush their feet, and shake out the two balls of wax ; 
upon which the others return to the fields to gather 
new treasure, whilst those who disburthened them 
convey their charge to the magazine. But some bees, 
again, when they have brought their load home, 
carry it themselves to the lodge, and there deliver it, 
laying hold of one end by their hinder feet, and with 
their middle feet sliding it out of the cavity that con- 
tained it ; but this is evidently a work of supereroga- 
tion which they are not obliged to perform. The 
packets of wax continue a few moments in the lodge, 
till a set of officers come, who are charged with a 
third commission, which is to knead this wax with 
their feet, and spread it out into different sheets, laid 
one above another. This is the unwrought wax, 
which is easily distinguished to be the produce of 
different flowers, by the variety of colours that appear 
i on each sheet. When they afterwards come to work, 
they knead it over again, they purify and whiten, 
and then reduce it to a uniform colour. They use 
this wax with a wonderful frugality ; for it is easy to 
observe that the whole family is conducted by pm 
dence, and all their actions regulated by good go- 
vernment. Everything is granted to necessity, but 
nothing to superfluity ; not the least grain of wax is 
neglected, and if they waste it, they are frequently 
obliged to provide more ; at those very times when 
they want to get their provision of honey, they take 
off the wax that closed the cells, and carry it to the 
magazine 

Reaumur hesitated in believing that this was a 

* Pluche, Spectacle de la Nature, vol. i. 




correct view of the subject, from observing the great 
difference between wax and pollen ; but he was in- 
clined to think the pollen might be swallowed, par- 
tially digested, and disgorged in the form of a 
kind of paste. Schirach also mentions, that it was 
remarked by a certain Lusatian, that wax comes 
from the rings of the body, because, on withdrawing 
a bee while it is at work, and extending its body, the 
wax may be seen there in the form of scales. 

The celebrated John Hunter shrewdly remarked 
that the pellets of pollen seen on the thighs of bees 
are of different colours on different bees, while the 
shade of the new-made comb is always uniform ; and 
therefore he concluded that pollen was not the origin 
of wax. Pollen also, he observed, is collected with 
greater avidity for old hives, where the comb is com- 
plete, than for those where it is only begun, which 
would hardly be the case were it the material of 
wax. He found that when the weather was cold 
and wet in June, so that a young swarm was pre- 
vented from going abroad, as much comb was con- 
structed as had been made in an equal time when the 
weather was favourable and fine. 

The pellets of pbllen on the thighs being thence 
proved not to be wax, he came to the conclu- 
sion that it was an external secretion originating 
between the plates of the belly. When he first ob- 
served this, he felt not a little embarrassed to explain 
the phenomenon, and doubted whether new plates 
were forming, or whether bees cast the old ones as 
lobsters do their shells. By melting the scales, he 
ascertained at least that they were wax ; and his opinion 
was confirmed by the fact, that the scales are only to 
be found during the season when the combs are con- 
structed. But he did not succeed in completing the 
discovery by observing the bees actually detach the 







scales, though he conjectured they might be taken 
up by others, if they were once shaken out from 
between the rings 

We need not be so much surprised at mistakes 
committed upon this subject, when we recollect that 
honey itself was believed by the ancients to be an 
emanation of the air — a dew that descended upon 
flowers, as if it had a limited commission to fall 
only on them. The exposure and correction of error 
is one of the first steps to genuine knowledge ; and 
when we are aware of the stumbling-blocks which 
have interrupted the progress of others, we can 
always travel more securely in the way of truth. 

That wax is secreted, is proved both by the wax 
pouches within the rings of the abdomen, and by 
actual experiment f. Huber and others fed bees 
entirely upon honey or sugar, and, notwithstanding, 
wax was produced and combs formed as if they had 
been at liberty to select their food. “ When bees 
were confined,” says M. Huber, “ for the purpose of 
discovering whether honey was sufficient for the 
production of wax, they supported their captivity 
patiently, and showed uncommon perseverance in 
rebuilding their combs as we removed them. 
Our experiments required the presence of grubs ; 
honey and water had to be provided ; the bees 
were to be supplied with combs containing brood, 
and at the same time it was necessary to con- 
fine them, that they might not seek pollen abroad. 
Having a swarm by chance, which had become use- 
less from sterility of the queen, we devoted it for 
our investigation in one of my leaf hives, which was 
glazed on both sides. We removed the queen, and 
substituted combs containing eggs and young grubs, 
but no cell with farina ; even the smallest particle of 

* Philosophical Trans, for 1792, p, 143, f See p. 103. 

K 







the substance which John Hunter conjectured to be 
the basis of the nutriment of the young, was taken 
away. 

“ Nothing remarkable occurred during the first and 
second day : the bees brooded over the young, and 
seemed to take an interest in them ; but at sunset, 
on the third, a loud noise was heard in the hive. 
Impatient to discover the reason, we opened a shut- 
ter, and saw all in confusion; the brood was aban- 
doned ; the workers ran in disorder over the combs ; 
thousands rushed towards the lower part of the hive ; 
and those about the entrance gnawed at its grating. 
Their design was not equivocal ; they wished to quit 
their prison. Some imperious necessity evidently 
obliged them to seek elsewhere what they could not 
find in the hive ; and apprehensive that they might 
perish if I restrained them longer from yielding to 
their instinct, I set them at liberty. The whole 
swarm escaped ; but the hour being unfavourable 
for their collections, they flew around the hive, and 
did not depart far from it. Increasing darkness and 
the coolness of the air compelled them very soon to 
return. Probably these circumstances calmed their 
agitation ; for we observed them peaceably remounting 
their combs ; order seemed re-established, and we 
took advantage of this moment to close the hive. 

“ Next day, the 19th of July, we saw the rudiments 
of two royal cells, which the bees had formed on one 
of the brood combs. This evening, at the same hour 
as on the preceding, we again heard a loud buzzing 
in the closed hive ; agitation and disorder rose to the 
highest degree, and we were again obliged to let the 
swarm escape. The bees did not remain long absent 
from their habitation ; they quieted and returned as 
before. We remarked on the 20th, that the royal 
cells had not been continued, as would have been the 
case in the ordinary state of things. A great tumult 







took place in the evening ; the bees appeared to be in 
a delirium ; we set them at liberty, and order was 
restored on their return. Their captivity having 
endured five days, we thought it needless to protract 
it farther ; besides, we were desirous of knowing, 
whether the brood was in a suitable condition, and if 
it had made the usual progress ; and we wished also 
to try to discover what might be the cause of the 
periodical agitation of the bees. M. Burnens, (the 
assistant of Huber) having exposed the two brood 
combs, the royal cells were immediately recognized ; 
but it was obvious that they had not been enlarged. 
Why should they? Neither eggs, grubs, nor that 
kind of paste peculiar to the individuals of their 
species were there ! The other cells were vacant like- 
wise ; no brood, not an atom of paste was in them. 
Thus, the worms had died of hunger. Had we pre- 
cluded the bees from all means of sustenance by 
removing the farina? To decide this point, it was 
necessary to confide other brood to the care of the 
same insects, now giving them abundance of pollen. 
They had not been enabled to make any collections 
while we examined their combs. On this occasion 
they escaped in an apartment where the windows 
were shut ; and after substituting young worms for 
those they had allowed to perish, we returned them 
to their prison. Next day we remarked that they had 
resumed courage ; they had consolidated the combs, 
and remained on the brood. They were then provided 
with fragments of combs, where other workers had 
stored up farina; and to be able to observe what they 
did with it, we took this substance from some of their 
cells, and spread it on the board of the hive. The 
bees soon discovered both the farina in the combs 
and what we had exposed to them. They crowded to 
the cells, and also descending to the bottom of the 
hives, took the pollen grain by grain in their teeth, 





and conveyed it to their mouths. Those that had 
eaten it most greedily, mounted the combs before the 
rest, and stopping on the cells of the young worms, 
inserted their heads, and remained there for a certain 
time. M. Burnens opened one of the divisions of 
the hive gently, and powdered the workers, for the 
purpose of recognizing them when they should 
ascend the combs. He observed them during several 
hours, and by this means ascertained that they took 
so great a quantity of pollen only to impart it to 
their young. Then withdrawing the portions of 
comb which had been placed by us on the board of 
the hive, we saw that the pollen had been sensibly 
diminished in quantity. They were returned to 
the bees, to augment their provision still farther, for 
the purpose of extending the experiment. The 
royal, as well as several common cells were soon 
closed ; and, on opening the hive, all the worms were 
found to have prospered. Some still had their food 
before them ; the cells of others that had spun were 
shut with a waxen covering. 

“ We witnessed these facts repeatedly, and always 
with equal interest. They so decisively prove the 
regard of the bees towards the grubs which they are 
entrusted with rearing, that we shall not seek for 
any other explanation of their conduct. Another 
fact, no less extraordinary, and much more difficult 
to be accounted for, was exhibited by bees constrained 
to work in wax, several times successively, from the 
syrup of sugar. Towards the close of the experiment 
they ceased to feed the young, though in the begin- 
ning these had received the usual attention. They 
even frequently dragged them from their cells, and 
carried them out of the hive 

Mr. Wiston, of Germantown, in the United States, 



* Huber on Bees. 






mentions a fact conclusive on this subject. “ I had,” 
says he, “ a late swarm last summer, which, in con- 
sequence of the drought, filled only one box with 
honey. As it was late in the season, and the food 
collected would not enable the bees to subsist for 
the winter, I shut up the hive, and gave them half 
a pint of honey every day. They immediately set to 
work, filled the empty cells, and then constructed 
new cells enough to fill another box, in which they 
deposited the remainder of the honey.” 

A more interesting proof is thus related by the 
same gentleman. “ In the summer of 1824, 1 traced 
some wild bees, which had been feeding on the 
flowers in my meadow, to their home in the woods, 
and which I found in the body of an oak tree, exactly 
fifty feet above the ground. Having caused the 
entrance to the hive to be closed by an expert climber, 
the limbs were separated in detail, until the trunk 
alone was left standing. To the upper extremity of 
this, a tackle-fall was attached, so as to connect it 
with an adjacent tree, and, a saw being applied be- 
low, the naked trunk was cut through. When the 
immense weight was lowered nearly to the earth, the 
ropes broke, and the mass fell with a violent crash. 
The part of the tree which contained the hive, sepa- 
rated by the saw, was conveyed to my garden, and 
placed in a vertical position. On being released, the 
bees issued out by thousands, and though alarmed, 
soon became reconciled to the change of situation. 
By removing a part of the top of the block, the inte- 
rior of the hive was exposed to view, and the comb 
itself, nearly six feet in height, was observed to have 
fallen down two feet below the roof of the cavity. 
To repair the damage was the first object of the 
labourers ; in doing which, a large part of their store 
of honey was expended, because it was at too late a 
season to obtain materials from abroad. In the fol- 





lowing 1 February, these industrious, but unfortunate 
insects, issuing in a confused manner from the hive, 
fell dead in thousands, around its entrance, the 
victims of a poverty created by their efforts to repair 
the ruins of their habitation*.’ ’ 

In another experiment, M. Huber confined a 
swarm so that they had access to nothing beside 
honey, and five times successively removed the 
combs with the precaution of preventing the escape 
of the bees from the apartment. On each occasion 
they produced new combs, which puts it beyond dis- 
pute that honey is sufficient to effect the secretion of 
wax without the aid of pollen. Instead of supplying 
the bees with honey, they were subsequently fed, 
exclusively, on pollen and fruit ; but though they 
were kept in captivity for eight days under a bell- 
glass, with a comb containing nothing but farina, 
they neither made wax, nor was any secreted under the 
rings. In another series of experiments, in which bees 
were fed with different sorts of sugar, it was found 
that nearly one-sixth of the sugar was converted into 
wax, dark coloured sugar yielding more than double 
the quantity of refined sugar. 

It may not be out of place to subjoin the few 
anatomical and physiological facts which have been 
ascertained by Huber, Madlle. J urine, and Latreille. 

The first stomach of the worker-bee, according to 
Latreillet, is appropriated to the reception of honey, 
but this is never found in the second stomach, which 
is surrounded with muscular rings, and from one 
end to the other very much resembles a cask covered 
with hoops. It is within these rings that the wax is 
produced, but the secreting vessels for this purpose 
have hitherto escaped the researches of the acutest 

* American Quarterly Review for June, 1828, p. 382. 
f Latreille, Mem. Acad, des Sciences, 1821. 






naturalists. Huber, however, plausibly enough conjec- 
tures that they are contained in the internal linin O' of 
the wax pockets, which consists of a cellular substance 
reticulated with hexagons. The wax pockets them- 
selves, which are concealed by the over-lapping of the 
rings, may be seen by pressing the abdomen of a 
worker-bee so as to lengthen it, and separate the rings 
further from each other. When this has been done, 
there may be seen on each of the four intermediate 
hoops of the belly, and separated by what may be 
called the keel ( carina ), two whitish-coloured 
pouches, of a soft texture, and in the form of a 
trapezium. Within, the little scales or plates of wax 




JForher-bee . magnified — showing the position of the scales of Wax. 

are produced from time to time, and are removed and 
employed as we shall presently see. We may remark 
that it is chiefly the wax-workers which produce the 
wax, for though the nurse-bees are furnished with 
wax pockets, they secrete it only in very small quan- 
tities, while in the queen bee, and the males or drones, 
no pockets are discoverable. 







Abdomen of Queen Bee. 



“ All the scales,” says Huber, “are not alike in 
every bee, for a difference is perceptible in consist- 
ence, shape, and thickness ; some are so thin and 
transparent, as to require a magnifier to be recog- 
nised, or we have been able to discover nothing but 
spiculae similar to those of water freezing. Neither the 
spiculse nor the scales rest immediately on the mem- 
brane of the pocket, a slight liquid medium is inter- 
posed, serving to lubricate the joinings of the rings, 
or to render the extraction of the scales easier, as 
otherwise they might adhere too firmly to the sides 
of the pockets.” M. Huber has seen the scales so 
large as to project beyond the rings, being visible 
without stretching the segments, and of a whitish- 
yellow, from greater thickness lessening their trans- 
parency. These shades of difference in the scales of 
various bees, their enlarged dimensions, the fluid in- 
terposed beneath them, the correspondence between 
the scale, and the size and form of the pockets, seem 
to infer the oozing of this substance through the mem- 






branes whereon it is moulded. He was confirmed 
in this opinion by the escape of a transparent fluid, 
on piercing the membrane, whose internal surface 
seemed to be applied to the soft parts of the belly. 
This he found coagulated in cooling, when it re- 
sembled wax, and again liquefied on exposure to heat. 
The scales themselves, also, melted and coagulated 
like wax *. 

By chemical analysis, however, it appears that the 
wax of the rings is a more simple substance than that 
which composes the cells ; for the latter is soluble 
in ether, and in spirit of turpentine, while the former 
is insoluble in ether, and but partially soluble in spirit 
of turpentine. It should seem to follow, that if the 
substance found lying under the rings be really the 
elements of wax, it undergoes some subsequent pre- 
paration after it is detached ; and that the bees, in 
short, are capable of impregnating it with matter, 
imparting to it whiteness and ductility, whereas in its 
unprepared state it is only fusible. 

Propolis. 

Wax is not the only material employed by bees in 
their architecture. Beside this, they make use of a 
brown, odoriferous, resinous substance, called pro - 
jJolis t, more tenacious and extensible than wax, and 
well adapted for cementing and varnishing. It was 
strongly suspected by Reaumur, that the bees collect- 
ed the propolis from those trees which are known to 
produce a similar gummy resin, such as the poplar, 
the birch, and the willow ; but he was thrown into 
doubt by not being able to detect the bees in the 
act of procuring it, and by observing them to collect 

* Huber on Bees, p. 325. 

t From two Greek words ?ro\is, meaning before the city , as 
the substance is principally applied to the projecting parts of the 
hive. 



 



it where none of those trees, nor any other of the 
same description, grew. His bees also refused to 
make use of bitumen, and other resinous substances, 
with which he supplied them, though Mr. Knight, as 
we shall afterwards see, was more successful *. 

Long before the time of Reaumur, however, Mouf- 
fet, in his Tnsectarum Theatrum, quotes Cordus for 
the opinion, that propolis is collected from the buds 
of trees, such as the poplar and birch ; and Reim 
says it is collected from the pine and firf. Huber 
at length set the question at rest ; and his experi- 
ments and observations are so interesting, that we 
shall give them in his own words : — • 

“ For many years,” says he, “I had fruitlessly en- 
deavoured to find them on trees producing an ana- 
logous substance, though multitudes had been seen 
returning; laden with it. 

“ In July, some branches of the wild poplar, which 
had been cut since spring, with very large buds, full 
of a reddish, viscous, odoriferous matter, were brought 
to me, and I planted them in vessels before hives, in 
the way of the bees going out to forage, so that they 
could not be insensible of their presence. Within a 
quarter of an hour, they were visited by a bee, which 
separating the sheath of a bud with its teeth, drew 
out threads of the viscous substance, and lodged a 
pellet of it in one of the baskets of its limbs : from 
another bud it collected another pellet for the oppo- 
site limb, and departed to the hive. A second bee 
took the place of the former in a few minutes, fol- 
lowing the same procedure. Young shoots of poplar, 
recently cut, did not seem to attract these insects, as 
their viscous matter had less consistence than the 
former |. 

* Phil. Trans, for 1807, p. 242. 
f Schirach, Hist, des Abeilles, p. 241. 

X I' irby and Spence observed bees very busy in collecting 







“ Different experiments proved the identity of this 
substance with propolis ; and now, having only to 
discover how the bees applied it to use, we peopled 
a hive, so prepared as to fulfil our views. The bees, 
building upwards, soon reached the glass above ; 
but, unable to quit their habitation, on account 
of rain, they were three weeks without bringing- 
home propolis. Their combs remained perfectly 
white until the beginning of July, when the state of 
the atmosphere became more favourable for our ob- 
servations. Serene warm weather engaged them to 
forage, and they returned from the fields laden with 
a resinous gum, resembling a transparent jelly, and 
having the colour and lustre of the garnet. It was 
easily distinguished from the farinaceous pellets then 
collected by other bees. The workers bearing the 
propolis ran over the clusters suspended from the 
roof of the hive, and rested on the rods supporting 
the combs, or sometimes stopped on the sides of their 
dwelling, in expectation of their companions coming 
to disencumber them of their burden. We actually 
saw two or three arrive, and carry the propolis from 
off the limbs of each with their teeth. The upper 
part of the hive exhibited the most animated spec- 
tacle : thither a multitude of bees resorted from all 
quarters, to engage in the predominant occupation 
of the collection, distribution, and application of the 
propolis. Some conveyed that of which they had 
unloaded the purveyors in their teeth, and deposited 
it in heaps ; others hastened, before its hardening, to 
spread it out like a varnish, or formed it into strings, 
proportioned to the interstices of the sides of the 
hive to be filled up. Nothing could be more diver- 
sified than the operations carried on. 

“ The bees, apparently charged with applying the 

propolis from the tacamahaca tree ( Populus balsamifera ).— 
Introd., ii, 186, 



. 



propolis within the cells, were easily distinguished 
from the multitude of workers, by the direction of 
their heads towards the horizontal pane forming the 
roof of the hive, and on reaching it, they deposited 
their burden nearly in the middle of intervals sepa- 
rating the combs : then they conveyed the propolis 
to the real place of its destination. They suspended 
themselves by the claws of the hind legs to points of 
support, afforded by the viscosity of the propolis on 
the glass ; and, as it were, swinging themselves back- 
wards and forwards, brought the heap of this substance 
nearer to the cells at each impulse. Here the bees em- 
ployed their fore feet, which remained free, to sweep 
what the teeth had detached, and to unite the frag- 
ments scattered over the glass, which recovered all 
its transparency when the whole propolis was brought 
to the vicinity of the cells. 

“ After some of the bees had smoothed down and 
cleaned out the glazed cells, feeling the way with 
their antennae, one desisted, and having approached 
a heap of propolis, drew out a thread with its teeth. 
This being broken off, it was taken in the claws of the 
fore feet, and the bee, re-entering the cell, imme- 
diately placed it in the angle of two portions that 
had been smoothed, in which operation the fore feet 
and teeth were used alternately ; but probably proving 
too clumsy, the thread was reduced and polished ; 
and we admired the accuracy with which it was ad- 
justed when the work was completed. The insect 
did not stop here : returning to the cell, it prepared 
other parts of it to receive a second thread, for which 
we did not doubt that the heap would be resorted to. 
Contrary to our expectation, however, it availed 
itself of the portion of the thread cut off on the 
former occasion, arranged it in the appointed place, 
and gave it all the solidity and finish of which it was 
susceptible. Other bees concluded the work which 
the first had begun ; and the sides of the cells were 







speedily secured with threads of propolis, while some 
were also put on the orifices ; but we could not seize 
the moment when they were varnished, though it 
may be easily conceived how it is done * ” 

This is not the only use to w'hich bees apply the 
propolis. They are extremely solicitous to remove 
such insects or foreign bodies as happen to get ad- 
mission into the hive. When so light as not to 
exceed their powers, they first kill the insect with 
their stings, and then drag it out with their teeth. 
But it sometimes happens, as was first observed by 
Maraldi, and since by Reaumur and others, that an 
ill-fated snail creeps into the hive : this is no sooner 
perceived than it is attacked on all sides, and stung 
to death. But how are the bees to carry out so 
heavy a burthen? Such a labour would be in vain. 
To prevent the noxious smell which would arise from 
its putrefaction, they immediately embalm it, by co- 
vering every part of its body with propolis, through 
which no effluvia can escape. When a snail with a 
shell gets entrance, to dispose of it gives much less 
trouble and expense to the bees. As soon as it re- 
ceives the first wound from a sting, it naturally 
retires within its shell. In this case, the bees, instead 
of pasting it all over with propolis, content them- 
selves with gluing all round the margin of the shell, 
which is sufficient to render the animal for ever im- 
movably fixed. 

Mr. Knight, the learned and ingenious President of 
the Horticultural Society, discovered by accident an 
artificial substance, more attractive than any of the 
resins experimentally tried by Reaumur. Having 
caused the decorticated part of a tree to be covered 
with a cement, composed of bees’- wax and turpentine, 
he observed that this w'as frequented by hive-bees, 
wffio, finding it to be a very good propolis ready made, 
* Huber on Bees, p. 408. 



detached it from the tree by their mandibles, and 
then, as usual, passed it from the first leg to the 
second, and so on. When one bee had thus collected 
its load, another often came behind and despoiled 
it of all it had collected ; a second and a third load 
were frequently lost in the same manner ; and yet 
the patient insect pursued its operations without 
manifesting any signs of anger *. Probably the 
latter circumstance, at which Mr. Knight seems to 
have been surprised, was nothing more than an instance 
of the division of labour so strikingly exemplified in 
every part of the economy of bees. 

It may not be out of place here to describe the 
apparatus with which the worker-bees are provided 
for the purpose of carrying the propolis as well as 
the pollen of flowers to the hive, and which has just 
been alluded to in the observations of Mr. Knight. 
The shin or middle portion of the hind pair of legs is 
actually formed into a triangular basket, admirably 
adapted to this design. The bottom of this basket 




Structure of the legs of the Bee for carrying propolis and pollen, magnijied. 
* Philosophical Trans, for 1807, p. 242. 







is composed of a smooth, shining, horn-like sub- 
stance, hollowed out in the substance of the limb, 
and surrounded with a margin of strong and thickly- 
set bristles. Whatever materials, therefore, may be 
placed by the bee in the interior of this basket, are 
secured from falling out by the bristles around it, 
whose elasticity will even allow the load to be heaped 
beyond their points without letting it fall. 

In the case of propolis, when the bee is loading 
her singular basket, she first kneads the piece she 
has detached with her mandibles, till it becomes 
somewhat dry and less adhesive, as otherwise it would 
stick to her limbs. This preliminary process some- 
times occupies nearly half an hour. She then passes 
it backwards by means of her feet to the cavity of her 
basket, giving it two or three pats to make it adhere; 
and when she adds a second portion to the first, she 
often finds it necessary to pat it still harder. When 
she has procured as much as the basket will conve- 
niently hold, she flies off with it to the hive. 

The Building of the Cells. 

The notion commonly entertained respecting glass 
hives is altogether erroneous. Those who are un- 
acquainted with bees imagine, that, by means of a 
glass hive, all their proceedings may be easily watched 
and recorded ; but it is to be remembered that bees 
are exceedingly averse to the intrusion of light, and 
their first operation in such cases is to close up every 
chink by which light can enter to disturb them, 
either by clustering together, or by a plaster com- 
posed of propolis. It consequently requires con- 
siderable management and ingenuity, even with the 
aid of a glass hive, to see them actually at work. 
M. Huber employed a hive with leaves, which opened 
in the manner of a book ; and for some purposes he 





used a glass box, inserted in the body of the hive, 
but easily brought into view by means of screws. 

But no invention hitherto contrived is sufficient to 
obviate every difficulty. The bees are so eager to 
afford mutual assistance, and for this purpose so 
many of them crowd together in rapid succession, 
that the operations of individuals can seldom be 
traced. Though this crowding, however, appears 
to an observer to be not a little confused, it is all 
regulated with admirable order, as has been ascer- 
tained by Reaumur and other distinguished natu- 
ralists. 

When bees begin to build the hive, they divide 
themselves into bands, one of which produces mate- 
rials for the structure; another works upon these, and 
forms them into a rough sketch of the dimensions and 
partitions of the cells. All this is completed by the 
second band, who examine and adjust the angles, re- 
move the superfluous wax, and give the work its ne- 
cessary perfection ; and a third band brings provi- 
sions to the labourers, who cannot leave their work. 
But no distribution of food is made to those whose 
charge, in collecting propolis and pollen, calls them 
to the field, because it is supposed they will hardly 
forget themselves ; neither is any allowance made to 
those who begin the architecture of the cells. Their 
province is very troublesome, because they are obliged 
to level and extend, as well as cut and adjust the wax 
to the dimensions required ; but then they soon ob- 
tain a dismission from this labour, and retire to the 
fields to regale themselves with food, and wear otf 
their fatigue with a more agreeable employment. 
Those who succeed them, draw their mouth, their 
feet, and the extremity of their body, several times 
over all the work, and never desist till the whole is 
polished and completed; and as they frequently need 
refreshments, and yet are not permitted to retire. 







there are waiters always attending 1 , who serve them 
with provisions when they require them. The labourer 
who has an appetite, bends down his trunk before the 
caterer, to intimate that he has an inclination to eat, 
upon which the other opens his bag of honey, and 
pours out a few drops ; these may be distinctly seen 
rolling through the whole of his trunk, which in- 
sensibly swells in every part the liquor flows through. 
When this little repast is over, the labourer returns to 
his work, and his body and feet repeat the same mo- 
tions as before*. 

Before they can commence building, however* 
when a colony or swarm migrates from the original 
hive to a new situation, it is necessary first to collect 
propolis, with which every chink and cranny in the 
place where they mean to build may be carefully 
stopped up ; and secondly that a quantity of wax be 
secreted by the wax-workers to form the requisite 
cells. The secretion of wax, it would appear, goes 
on best when the bees are in a state of repose ; and 
the wax-workers, accordingly, suspend themselves 
in the interior in an extended cluster, like a curtain 
which is composed of a series of intertwined festoons 
or garlands, crossing each other in all directions, — 
the uppermost bee maintaining its position by laying 
hold of the roof with its fore-legs, and the succeeding 
one by laying hold of the hind legs of the first. 

“ A person,” says Reaumur, “ mus't have been 
born devoid of curiosity not to take interest in the 
investigation of such wonderful proceedings.” Yet 
Reaumur himself seems not to have understood that 
the bees suspended themselves in this manner to 
secrete wax, but merely, as he imagined, to recruit 
themselves by rest for renewing their labours. The 
bees composing the festooned curtain dre individu- 
ally motionless ; but this curtain is, notwithstanding, 

* Spectacle de la Nature, tom. i. 

 



kept moving by the proceedings in the interior; for 
the nnrse-bees never form any portion of it, and 
continue their activity — a distinction with which 
Reaumur was unacquainted. 




Curtain of JFa.v-workers secreting JVax. 



Although there are many thousand labourers in a 
hive, they do not commence foundations for combs 






in several places at once, but wait till an individual 
bee has selected a site, and laid the foundation of a 
comb, which serves as a directing mark for all that 
are to follow. Were we not expressly told by so 
accurate an observer as Huber, we might hesitate to 
believe that bees, though united in what appears to 
be a harmonious monarchy, are strangers to sub- 
ordination, and subject to no discipline. Hence it 
is, that though many bees work on the same comb, 
they do not appear to be guided by any simultaneous 
impulse. The stimulus which moves them is suc- 
cessive. An individual bee commences each opera- 
tion, and several others successively apply themselves 
to accomplish the same purpose. Each bee appears, 
therefore, to act individually, either as directed by the 
bees preceding it, or by the state of advancement in 
which it finds the work it has to proceed with. If 
there be anything like unanimous consent, it is the 
inaction of several thousand workers while a single 
individual proceeds to determine and lay down the 
foundation of the first comb. Reaumur regrets, that, 
though he could by snatches detect a bee at work in 
founding cells or perfecting their structure, his ob- 
servations were generally interrupted by the crowding 
of other bees between him and the little builder. 
He was therefore compelled rather to infer the dif- 
ferent steps of their procedure from an examination 
of the cells when completed, than from actual ob- 
servation. The ingenuity of Huber, even under all 
the disadvantages of blindness, succeeded in tracing 
the minutest operations of the workers from the first 
waxen plate of the foundation. We think the narra- 
tive of the discoverer’s experiments, as given by him- 
self, will be more interesting than any abstract of it 
which we could furnish. 

“ Having taken a large bell-shaped glass receiver, 
we glued thin wooden slips to the arch at certain in- 



 



tervals, because the glass itself was too smooth to 
admit of the bees supporting themselves on it. A 
swarm, consisting of some thousand workers, several 
hundred males, and a fertile queen, was introduced, 
and they soon ascended to the top. Those first 
gaining the slips, fixed themselves there by the fore- 
feet ; others scrambling up the sides, joined them, 
by holding their legs with their own, and they thus 
formed a kind of chain, fastened by the two ends to 
the upper parts of the receiver, and served as ladders 
or a bridge to the workers enlarging their number. 
The latter were united in a cluster, hanging like an 
inverted pyramid from the top to the bottom of the hive. 

“ The country then affording little honey, we pro- 
vided the bees with syrup of sugar, in order to hasten 
their labour. They crowded to the edge of a vessel 
containing it ; and, having satisfied themselves, re- 
turned to the group. We were now struck with the 
absolute repose of this hive, contrasted with the usual 
agitation of bees. Meanwhile, the nurse-bees alone 
went to forage in the country : they returned with 
pollen, kept guard at the entrance of the hive, 
cleansed it, and stopped up its edges with propolis. 
The wax-workers remained motionless above fifteen 
hours : the curtain of bees, consisting always of the 
same individuals, assured us that none replaced them. 
Some hours later, we remarked that almost all these 
individuals had wax scales under the rings ; and 
next day this phenomenon was still more general. 
The bees forming the external layer of the cluster, 
having now somewhat altered their position, enabled 
us to see their bellies distinctly. By the projection 
of the wax scales, the rings seemed edged with 
white. The curtain of bees became rent in several 
places, and some commotion began to be observed 
in the hive. 

“ Convinced that the combs would originate in 






the centre of the swarm, our whole attention was 
then directed towards the roof of the glass. A worker 
at this time detached itself from one of the central 
festoons of the cluster, separated itself from the 
crowd, and, with its head, drove away the bees at 
the beginning of the row in the middle of the arch, 
turning round to form a space an inch or more in 
diameter, in which it might move freely. It then 
fixed itself in the centre of the space thus cleared. 

“ The worker now employing the pincers at the 
joint of one of the third pair of its limbs, seized a 
scale of wax projecting from a ring, and brought it 
forward to its mouth with the claws of its fore-legs, 




IVax-worhcr laying the foundation of the first Cell. 

where it appeared in a vertical position. We re- 
marked, that, with its claws, it turned the wax in 
every necessary direction ; that the edge of the scale 
was immediately broken down, and the fragments 
having been accumulated in the hollow of the mandi- 
bles, issued forth like a very narrow ribbon, impreg- 
nated with a frothy liquid by the tongue. The 
tongue itself assumed the most varied shapes, and 
executed the most complicated operations, — being 
sometimes flattened like a trowel, and at other times 
pointed like a pencil ; and, after imbuing the whole 
substance of the ribbon, pushed it forward again 
into the mandibles, whence it was drawn out a 
second time, but in an opposite direction. 

“ At length the bee applied these particles of wax 
to the vault of the hive, where the saliva impreg- 
nating them promoted their adhesion, and also com-’ 







municated a whiteness and opacity, which were want- 
ing when the scales were detached from the rings. 
Doubtless, this process was to give the wax that 
ductility and tenacity belonging to its perfect state. 
The bee then separated those portions not yet ap- 
plied to use with its mandibles, and with the same 
organs afterwards arranged them at pleasure. The 
founder bee, a name appropriate to this worker, re- 
peated the same operation, until all the fragments, 
worked up and impregnated with the fluid, were 
attached to the vault, when it repeated the preceding- 
operations on the part of the scale yet kept apart, 
and again united to the rest what was obtained from 
it. A second and third scale were similarly treated 
by the same bee ; yet the work was only sketched ; 
for the worker did nothing but accumulate the par- 
ticles of wax together. Meanwhile, the founder, 
quitting its position, disappeared amidst its com- 
panions. Another, with wax under the rings, suc- 
ceeded it, which, suspending itself to the same spot, 
withdrew a scale by the pincers of the hind legs, and 
passing it through its mandibles, prosecuted the 
work ; and taking care to make its deposit in a line 
with the former, it united their extremities. A third 
worker, detaching itself from the interior of the 
eluster, now came and reduced some of the scales to 
paste, and put them near the materials accumulated 
by its companions, but not in a straight line. Ano- 
ther bee, apparently sensible of the defect, removed 
the misplaced wax before our eyes, and carrying it 
to the former heap, deposited it there, exactly in the 
order and direction pointed out. 

“ From all these operations was produced a block 
of a rugged surface, hanging down from the arch, 
without any perceptible angle, or any traces of cells. 
It was a simple wall, or ridge, running in a straight 
line, and without the least inflection, two-thirds of 







an inch in length, about two-thirds of a cell, or two 
lines, high, and declining towards the extremities. 
We have seen other foundation walls from an inch 
to an inch and a half long, the form being always 
the same but none ever of greater height. 

“ The vacuity in the centre of the cluster had per- 
mitted us to discover the first manoeuvres of the 
bees, and the art with which they laid the foundations 
of their edifices. However, it was filled up too soon 
for our satisfaction ; for workers collecting on both 
faces of the wall obstructed our view of their further 
operations 

* Huber on Bees, p. 3f)8. 



Curtain of fVax-workcrs.—(See p. 114.) 





The obstruction of which M. Huber complains only 
operated as a stimulus to his ingenuity in contriving 
how he miffht continue his interesting: observations. 
From the time of Pappus to the present day, mathe- 
maticians have applied the principles of geometry to 
explain the construction of the cells of a bee-hive ; 
but though their extraordinary regularity, and won- 
derfully selected form, had so often been investigated 
by men of the greatest talent, and skilled in all the 
refinements of science, the process by w hich they are 
constructed, involving also the causes of their regu- 
larity of form, had not been traced, till M. Huber 
devoted himself to the inquiry. 

As the wax-workers secrete only a limited quantity 
of wax, it is indispensably requisite that as little as 
possible of it should be consumed, and that none of it 
should be wasted. Bees, therefore, as M. Reaumur 
well remarks *, have to solve this difficult geometrical 
problem : — A quantity of wax being given, to form 
of it similar and equal cells of a determinate capa- 
city, but of the largest size in proportion to the 
quantity of matter employed, and disposed in such a 
manner as to occupy the least possible space in the 
hive. This problem is solved by bees in all its con- 
ditions. The cylindrical form would seem to be best 
adapted to the shape of the insect ; but had the cells 
been cylindrical, they could not have been applied to 

* R6aumur, vol.v., p. 380. 







each oilier without leaving a vacant and superfluous 
space between every three contiguous cells. Had the 
cells, on the other hand, been square or triangular, they 
might have been constructed without unnecessary 
vacancies ; but these forms would have both required 
more material and been very unsuitable to the shape 
of a bee’s body. The six-sided form of the cells 
obviates every objection ; and while it fulfils the con- 
ditions of the problem, it is equally adapted with a 
cylinder to the shape of the bee. 

M. Reaumur further remarks, that the base of 
each cell, instead of forming a plane, is usually com- 
posed of three pieces in the shape of the diamonds 
on playing cards, and placed in such a manner as to 
form a hollow pyramid. This structure, it may be 
observed, imparts a greater degree of strength, and, 
still keeping the solution of the problem in view, 
gives a great capacity with the smallest expenditure of 
material. This has actually, indeed, been ascertained 
by mathematical measurement and calculation. Ma- 
raldi, the inventor of glass hives, determined, by 
minutely measuring these angles, that the greater 
were 109° 28', and the smaller, 70° 32'; and M. 
Reaumur, being desirous to know why these parti- 
cular angles are selected, requested M. Koenig, a 
skilful mathematician, (without informing him of his 
design, or telling him of Maraldi’s researches,) to 
determine, by calculation, what ought to be the angle 
of a six-sided cell, with a concave pyramidal base, 
formed of three similar and equal rhomboid plates, 
so that the least possible matter should enter into its 
construction By employing what geometricians de- 
nominate the infinitesimal calculus , M. Koenig found 
that the angles should be 109° 26' for the greater, 
and 70° 34' for the smaller, or about two sixtieths of 
a degree, more or less, than the actual angles made 
choice of by bees. The equality of inclination in the 





angles has also been said to facilitate the construction 
of the cells. 

M. Huber adds to these remarks, that the cells of 
the first row, by which the whole comb is attached 
to the roof of a hive, are not like the rest ; for 
instead of six sides they have only five, of which the 
roof forms one. The base, also, is in these different, 
consisting 1 of three pieces on the face of the comb, 
and on the other side of two : one of these only is 
diamond shaped, while the other two are of an irre- 
gular four-sided figure. This arrangement, by bring- 
ing the greatest number of points in contact with the 
interior surface, ensures the stability of the comb. 




Arrangement of Cells. 

It may, however, be said not to be quite certain, 
that Reaumur and others have not ascribed to bees 
the merit of ingenious mathematical contrivance and 
selection, when the construction of the cells may more 
probably originate in the form of their mandibles and 
other instruments employed in their operations. In 
the case of other insects, we have, both in the preced- 
ing and subsequent pages of this volume, repeatedly 
noticed, that they use their bodies, or parts thereof, 
as the standards of measurement and modelling ; and 
it is not impossible that bees may proceed on a 
similar principle. M. Huber replies to this objection, 







that bees are not provided with instruments corre- 
sponding to the angles of their cells ; for there is no 
more resemblance between these and the form of 
their mandibles, than between the chisel of the 
sculptor and the work which he produces. The 
head, he thinks, does not furnish any better explana- 
tion. He admits that the antennae are very flexible, 
so as to enable the insects to follow the outline of 
every object ; but concludes that neither their struc- 
ture, nor that of the limbs and mandibles, are ade- 
quate to explain the form of the cells, though all 
these are employed in the operations of building, — 
the effect, according to him, depending entirely on 
the object which the insect proposes. 

We shall now follow M. Huber in the experiments 
which he contrived, in order to observe the opera- 
tions of the bees subsequent to their laying a founda- 
tion for the first cell ; and we shall again quote from 
his own narrative: — 

“ It appeared to me,” he says, “that the only 
method of isolating the architects, and bringing them 
individually into view, would be to induce them to 
change the direction of their operations, and work 
upwards. 

“ I had a box made twelve inches square and nine 
deep, with a moveable glass lid. Combs full of 
brood, honey, and pollen, were next selected from 
one of my leaf hives, as containing what might in- 
terest the bees, and being cut into pieces a foot long, 
and four inches deep, they were arranged vertically 
at the bottom of the box, at the same intervals as 
the insects themselves usually leave between them. 
A small slip of wooden lath covered the upper edge 
of each. It was not probable that the bees would 
attempt to found new combs on the glass roof of the 
box, because its smoothness precluded the swarm 
from adhering to it; therefore, if disposed to build, 

 



they could do so over the slips resting 1 on the combs, 
Avhich left a vacuity five inches high above them. As 
we had foreseen, the swarm with which this box was 
peopled established itself among the combs below. 
We then observed the nurse-bees displaying their 
natural activity. They dispersed themselves through- 
out the hive, to feed the young grubs, to clear out 
their lodgment, and adapt it for their convenience. 
Certainly, the combs, which were roughly cut to fit 
the bottom of the box, and in some parts damaged, 
appeared to them shapeless and misplaced ; for they 
speedily commenced their reparation. They beat 
down the old wax, kneaded it between their teeth, and 
thus formed binding materials to consolidate them. 
We were astonished beyond expression by such a 
multitude of workers employed at once in labours 
to which it did not appear they should have been 
called, at their coincidence, their zeal, and their pru- 
dence. 

“ But it was still more wonderful, that about half 
the numerous population took no part in the pro- 
ceedings, remaining motionless, while the others ful- 
filled the functions required. The wax-workers, in 
a state of absolute repose, recalled our former obser- 
vations. Gorged with the honey we had put within 
their reach, and continuing in this condition during 
twenty-four hours, wax was formed under their 
rings, and was now ready to be put in operation. 
To our great satisfaction, we soon saw a little foun- 
dation wall rising on one of the slips that we had 
prepared to receive the superstructure. No obstacle 
was offered to the progress of our observations ; and 
for the second time, we beheld both the undertaking 
of the founder bee, and the successive labours of 
several wax-workers, in forming the foundation wall. 
Would that my readers could share the interest which 
the view of these architects inspired ! 







“ This foundation, originally very small, was en- 
larged as the work required ; while they excavated 
on one side a hollow, of about the width of a com- 
mon cell, and on the opposite surface two others 
somewhat more elongated. The middle of the single 
cell corresponded exactly to the partition separating 
the latter; the arches of these excavations, projecting 
by the accumulation of wax, were converted into 
ridges in a straight line ; whence the cells of the first 
row were composed of five sides, considering the 
slip as one side, and those of the second row, of six 
sides. 




Foundation-wall enlarged , and the cells commenced. 



“ The interior conformation of the cavities, ap- 
parently, was derived from the position of their re- 
spective outlines. It seemed that the bees, endowed 
with an admirable delicacy of feeling, directed their 
teeth principally to the place where the wax was 
thickest ; that is, the parts where other workers on 
the opposite side had accumulated it ; and this ex- 
plains why the bottom of the cell is excavated in an 
angular direction behind the projection on the sides 
of which the sides of the corresponding cells are to 
rise. The largest of the excavations, which was op- 
posite to three others, was divided into three parts, 
while the excavations of the first row on the other 
face, applied against this one, were composed of only 
two. 

“ In consequence of the manner in which the ex- 
cavations were opposed to each other, those of the 
second row, and all subsequent, partially applied to 
three cavities, were composed of three equal diamond- 





shaped lozenges. I may here remark, that each 
part of the labour of bees appears the natural result 
of what has preceded it ; therefore, chance has no 
share in these admirable combinations. 

“ A foundation wall rose above the slip like a 
minute vertical partition, five or six lines long, two 
lines high, but only half a line in thickness; the 
edge circular, and the surface rough. Quitting the 
cluster among the combs, a nurse-bee mounted the 
slip, turned around the block, and visiting both sides, 
began to work actively in the middle. It removed 
as much wax with its teeth as might equal the 
diameter of a common cell ; and after kneading and 
moistening the particles, deposited them on the edge 
of the excavation. This insect, having laboured 
some seconds, retired, and was soon replaced by 
another ; a third continued the work, raising the 
margin of the edges, now projecting from the cavity, 
and with assistance of its teeth and feet fixing* the 
particles, so as to give these edges a straighter form. 
More than twenty bees successively participated in 
the same work ; and when the cavity was little above 
a line and a half in height, though equalling a cell in 
width, a bee left the swarm, and after encircling the 
block, commenced its operations on the opposite 
face, where yet untouched. But its teeth acting only 
on one half of this side, the hollow which it formed 
was opposite to only one of the slight prominences 
bordering the first cavity. Nearly at the same time 
another worker began on the right of the face that 
had been untouched, wherein both were occupied in 
forming cavities, which may be designed the second 
and third ; and they also were replaced by substi- 
tutes. These two latter cavities were separated only 
by the common margin, framed of particles of wax 
withdrawn from them ; which margin corresponded 
with the centre of the cavity on the opposite surface. 







The foundation wall itself was still of insufficient 
dimensions to admit the full diameter of a cell ; but 
while the excavations were deepened, wax-workers 
extracting 1 their scales of wax applied them in enlarg- 
ing its circumference ; so that it rose nearly two lines 
further around the circular arch. The nurse-bees, 
which appeared more especially charged with sculp- 
turing the cells, being then enabled to continue their 
outlines, prolonged the cavities, and heightened their 
margins on the new addition of wax 

“ The arch, formed by the edge of each of these 
cavities, was next divided as by two equal chords, in 
the line of which the bees formed stages or project- 
ing borders, or margins meeting at an obtuse angle ; 
the cavities now had four margins, two lateral and 
perpendicular to the supporting slip, and two oblique, 
which were shorter. 

“ Meantime, it became more difficult to follow the 
operations of the bees, from their frequently inter- 
posing their heads between the eye of the observer 
and the bottom of the cell ; but the partition, whereon 
their teeth laboured, had become so transparent, as 
to expose what passed on the other side. 

“ The cavities of which we speak, formed the 
bottom of the first three cells ; and while the bees 
engaged were advancing them to perfection, other 
workers commenced sketching a second row of cells 
above the first, and partly behind those in front — 
for in general, their labour proceeds by combination. 
We cannot say, ‘ When bees have finished this cell, 
they will begin new ones but, ‘ while particular 
workers advance a certain portion, we are certain 
that others will carry on the adjacent cells.’ Farther, 
the work begun on one face of the comb is already 
the commencement of that which is to follow on the 
reverse. All this depends on a reciprocal relation, 
or a mutual connexion of the parts, rendering the 



 



whole subservient to each other. It is undoubted, 
therefore, that slight irregularities on the front will 
affect the form of the cells on the back of the comb 
When they have in this manner worked the bot- 
toms of the first row of cells into the required forms, 
some of the nurse-bees finish them by imparting a 
sort of polish, while others proceed to cut out the 
rudiments of a second row from the fresh wall of 
wax which has been built in the meanwhile by the 
wax-workers, and also on the opposite side of this 
wall ; for a comb of cells is always double, being 
arranged in two layers, placed end to end. The cells 
of this second row are engrafted on the borders of 
cavities hollowed out in the wall, being founded by 
the nurse-bees, bringing the contour of all the bot- 
toms, which is at first unequal, to the same level ; 
and this level is kept uniform in the margins of the 
cells till they are completed. At first sight, nothing 
appears more simple, than adding wax to the mar- 
gins ; but from the inequalities occasioned by the 
shape of the bottom, the bees must accumulate wax 
on the depressions, in order to bring them to a level. 
It follows accordingly that the 'surface of a new 
comb is not quite flat, there being a progressive slope 
produced as the work proceeds, and the comb being 
therefore in the form of a lens, the thickness decreasing 
towards the edge, and the last formed cells being 
shallower or shorter than those preceding them. So 
long as there is room for the enlargement of the 
comb, this thinning of its edge may be remarked ; 
but as soon as the space within the hive prevents its 
enlargement, the cells are made equal, and two flat 
and level surfaces are produced. 

M. Huber observed, that while sketching the 
bottom of a cell, before there was any upright mar- 
gin on the reverse, their pressure on the still soft 
* Huber on Bees, p. 368. 






and flexible wax gave rise to a projection, which 
sometimes caused a breach of the partition. This, 
however, was soon repaired, but a slight prominence 
always remained on the opposite surface, to the right 
and left of which they placed themselves, to begin a 
new excavation ; and they heaped up part of the 
materials between the two flutings formed by their 
labour. The ridge thus formed becomes a guide to 
the direction which the bees are to follow for the 
vertical furrow of the front cell. 

We have already seen that the first cell determines 
the place of all that succeed it, and two of these are 
never in ordinary circumstances begun in different 
parts of the hive at the same time, as is alleged by 
some earlier writers. When some rows of cells, 
however, have been completed in the first comb, two 
other foundation walls are begun, one on each side of 
it, at the exact distance of one-third of an inch, which 
is sufficient to allow two bees employed on the op- 
posite cells to pass each other without jostling. These 
new walls are also parallel to the former ; and two 
more are afterwards begun exterior to the second, 
and at the same parallel distance. The combs are 
uniformly enlarged, and lengthened in a progression 
proportioned to the priority of their origin ; the 
middle comb being always advanced beyond the two 
adjoining ones by several rows of cells, and these 
again beyond the ones exterior to them. Did the 
bees lay the foundations of all their combs at the 
same time, they would not find it easy to preserve 
parallelism and an equality in their distances. It may 
be remarked further, that beside the vacancies of 
half an inch between the cells, which form what we 
may call the highways of the community, the combs 
are pierced in several places with holes which serve 
as postern-gates for easy communication from one to 
another, to prevent loss of time in going round. The 







equal distance between the combs is of more impor- 
tance to the welfare of the hive than might at first 
appear ; for were they too distant, the bees would be 
so scattered and dispersed, that they could not re- 
ciprocally communicate the heat indispensable for 
hatching the eggs and rearing the young. If the 
combs, on the other hand, were closer, the bees 
could not traverse the intervals with the freedom 
necessary to facilitate the work of the hive. On the 
approach of winter, they sometimes elongate the 
cells which contain honey, and thus contract the 
intervals between the combs. But this expedient is 
in preparation for a season when it is important to 
have copious magazines, and when their activity 
being relaxed, it is unnecessary for their communi- 
cations to be so spacious and free. On the return of 
spring, the bees hasten to contract the elongated 
cells, that they may become fit for receiving the 
eggs which the queen is about to deposit, and in 
this manner they re-establish the regular distance * 

We are indebted to the late Dr. Barclay of Edin- 
burgh, well known as an excellent anatomist, for 
the discovery that each cell in a honeycomb is not 
simply composed of one wall, but consists of two. 
We shall give the account of his discovery in his own 
words : — 

“ Having inquired of several naturalists whether 
or not they knew any author who had mentioned 
that the partitions between the cells of the honey- 
comb were double, and whether or not they had ever 
remarked such a structure themselves, and they hav- 
ing answered in the negative ; I now take the liberty 
of presenting to the Society, pieces of honeycomb, 
in which the young bees had been reared, upon 
breaking which, it will be clearly seen that the par- 
titions between different cells, at the sides and the 

- • * Huber on Bees, p. 220. 






base, are all double ; or, in other words, that each 
cell is a distinct, separate, and in some measure an 
independent structure, agglutinated only to the neigh- 
bouring cells ; and that when the agglutinating sub- 
stance is destroyed, each cell may be entirely sepa- 
rated from the rest. 

“ I have also some specimens of the cells formed 
by wasps, which shew that the partitions between 
them are also double, and that the agglutinating sub- 
stance between them is more easily destroyed than 
that between the cells of the bee 

Irregularities in their Workmanship. 

Though bees, however, work with great uniformity 
when circumstances favour their operations, they may 
be compelled to vary their proceedings. M. Huber 
made several ingenious experiments of this kind. 
The following, mentioned by Dr. Bevan, was acci- 
dental, and occurred to his friend Mr. Walond. 
“ Inspecting his bee-boxes at the end of October, 
1817, he perceived that a centre comb, burdened 
with honey, had separated from its attachments, and 
was leaning against another comb, so as to prevent 
the passage of the bees between them. This acci- 
dent excited great activity in the colony; but its 
nature could not be ascertained at the time. At the 
end of a week, the weather being cold, and the bees 
clustered together, Mr. Walond observed, through 
the window of the box, that they had constructed 
two horizontal pillars betwixt the combs alluded to ; 
and had removed so much of the honey and wax 
from the top of each, as to allow the passage of a 
bee : in about ten days more, there was an unin- 
terrupted thoroughfare ; the detached comb at its- 
upper part had been secured by a strong barrier, and 

* Memoirs of the Wernerian Nat.' Hist. Soc, vol, ii. p. 260. 




fastened to the window with the spare wax. This 
being accomplished, the bees removed the horizontal 
pillars first constructed as being of no further use 
A similar anecdote is told by M. Huber. “ Dur- 
ing the winter,” says he, “ a comb in one of my 
bell-glass hives, having been originally insecure, fell 
down, but preserved its position parallel to the rest. 
The bees were unable to fill up the vacuity left above 
it, because they do not build combs of old wax, and 
none new could be then obtained. At a more favour- 
able season they would have ingrafted a new comb 
on the old one ; but now their provision of honey 
could not be spared for the elaboration of this sub- 
stance, which induced them to ensure the stability 
of the comb by another process. 

“ Crowds of bees taking wax from the lower part 
of other combs, and even gnawing it from the sur- 
face of the orifices of the deepest cells, they con- 
structed so many irregular pillars, joists, or but- 
tresses, between the sides of the fallen comb, and 
others on the glass of the hive. All these were arti- 
ficially adapted to localities. Neither did they con- 
fine themselves to repairing the accidents which their 
works had sustained. They seemed to profit by 
the warning, to guard against a similar casualty. 

The remaining combs were not displaced; there- 
fore, while solidly adhering by the base, we were 
greatly surprised to see the bees strengthen their 
principal fixtures with old wax. They rendered 
them much thicker than before, and fabricated a 
number of new connexions, to unite them more 
firmly to each other, and to the sides of their dwelling. 
All this passed in the middle of January, a time that 
these insects commonly keep in the upper part of 
their hive, and when work is no longer seasonablef.” 
M. Huber the younger shrewdly remarks, that 
* Bevan on Bees, p, 326, f Huber on Bees, p, 416. 







the tendency to symmetry observable in the archi- 
tecture of bees, does not hold so much in small de- 
tails as in the whole work, because they are some- 
times obliged to adapt themselves to particular loca- 
lities. One irregularity leads on to another, and it 
commonly arises from mere accident, or from design 
on the part of the proprietor of the bees. By allow- 
ing, for instance, too little interval between the spars 
for receiving the foundation of the combs, the struc- 
ture has been continued in a particular direction. 
The bees did not at first appear to be sensible of the 
defect, though they afterwards began to suspect their 
error, and were then observed to change their line of 
work till they gained the customary distance. The 
cells having been by this change of direction in some 
degree curved, the new ones which were commenced 
on each side of it, by being built every where parallel 
to it, partook of the same curvature. But the bees 
did not relish such approaches to the “line of beauty,” 
and exerted themselves to bring their buildings again 
into the regular form. 

In consequence of several irregularities which they 
wished to correct, the younger Huber has seen bees 
depart from their usual practice, and at once lay on 
a spar two foundation walls not in the same line. 
They could consequently neither be enlarged without 
obstructing both, nor from their position could the 
edges unite had they been prolonged. The little 
architects, however, had recourse to a very ingenious 
contrivance: they curved the edges of the two combs, 
and brought them to unite so neatly that they could 
be both prolonged in the same line with ease ; and 
when carried to some little distance, their surface 
became quite uniform and level. 

“ Having seen bees,” says the elder Huber, “ work 
both up and down, I wished to try to investigate 
whether we could compel them to construct their 





combs in any other direction. We endeavoured to 
puzzle them with a hive glazed above and below, so 
that they had no place of support but the upright 
sides of their dwelling ; but, betaking themselves to 
the upper angle, they built their combs perpendicular 
to one of these sides, and as regularly as those 
which they usually build under a horizontal surface. 
The foundations were laid on a place which does not 
serve naturally for the base, yet, except in the dif- 
ference of direction, the first row of cells resembled 
those in ordinary hives, the others being distributed 
on both faces, while the bottoms alternately corre- 
sponded with the same symmetry. I put the bees to 
a still greater trial. As they now testified their in- 
clination to carry their combs, by the shortest way, 
to the opposite side of the hive (for they prefer 
uniting them to wood, or a surface rougher than 
glass), I covered it with a pane. Whenever this 
smooth and slippery substance was interposed be- 
tween them and the wood, they departed from the 
straight line hitherto followed, and bent the struc- 
ture of their comb at a right angle to what was al- 
ready made, so that the prolongation of the ex- 
tremity might reach another side of the hive, which 
had been left free. 

“ Varying this experiment in several ways, I saw 
the bees constantly change the direction of their 
combs, when I presented to them a surface too 
smooth to admit of their clustering on it. They al- 
ways sought the wooden sides. I thus compelled 
them to curve the combs in the strangest shapes, by 
placing a pane at a certain distance from their edges. 
These results indicate a degree of instinct truly 
wonderful. They denote even more than instinct : 
for glass is not a substance against which bees can 
be warned by nature. In trees, their natural abode, 
there is nothing that resembles it, or with the same 







polish. The most singular part of their proceeding 
is changing the direction of the work before arriving 
at the surface of the glass, and while yet at a dis- 
tance suitable for doing so. Do they anticipate the 
inconvenience which would attend any other mode 
of building? No less curious is the plan adopted 
by the bee for producing an angle in the combs : the 
wonted fashion of their work, and the dimensions of 
the cells, must be altered. Therefore, the cells on 
the upper or convex side of the combs are enlarged ; 
they are constructed of three or four times the width 
of those on the opposite surface. How can so many 
insects, occupied at once on the edges of the combs, 
concur in giving them a common curvature from one 
extremity to the other ? How do they resolve on 
establishing cells so small on one side, while dimen- 
sions so enlarged are bestowed on those of the other? 
And is it not still more singular, that they have the 
art of making a correspondence between cells of 
such reciprocal discrepance? The bottom being com- 
mon to both, the tubes alone assume a taper form. 
Perhaps no other insect has afforded a more decisive 
proof of the resources of instinct, when compelled to 
deviate from the ordinary course. 

“ But let us study them in their natural state, and 
there we shall find that the diameter of their cells 
must be adapted to the individuals which shall be 
bred in them. The cells of males have the same 
figure, the same number of lozenges and sides as 
those of workers, and angles of the* same size. 
Their diameter is 34- lines, while those of workers 
are only 2J-. 

“ It is rarely that the cells of males occupy the 
higher part of the combs. They are generally in 
the middle or on the sides, where they are not iso- 
lated. The manner in which they are surrounded 
by other cells alone can explain how the transition 





in size is effected. When the cells of males are to be 
fabricated under those of workers, the bees make 
several rows of intermediate cells, whose diameter 
augments progressively, until gaining that propor- 
tion proper to the cells required ; and, in returning 
to those of workers, a lowering is observed in a 
manner corresponding. 

“ Bees, in preparing the cells of males, previously 
establish a block or lump of wax on the edge of their 
comb, thicker than is usually employed for those of 
workers. It is also made higher, otherwise the same 
order and symmetry could not be preserved on a 
larger scale. 

“ Several naturalists notice the irregularities in the 
cells of bees as so many defects. What would have 
been their astonishment had they observed that part of 
them are the result of calculation ? Had they followed 
the imperfection of their organs, some other means 
of compensating them would have been granted to the 
insects. It is much more surprising that they know 
how to quit the ordinary route, when circumstances 
demand the construction of enlarged cells ; and, after 
building thirty or forty rows of them, to return to the 
proper proportions from which they have departed, by 
successive reductions. Bees also augment the dimen- 
sions of their cells when there is an opportunity for 
a great collection of honey. Not only are they then 
constructed of a diameter much exceeding that of the 
common cells, but they are elongated throughout the 
whole space admitting it. A great portion of irre- 
gular comb contains cells an inch, or even an inch 
and a half, in depth. 

“ Bees, on the contrary, sometimes are induced 
to shorten their cells. When wishing to prolong an 
old comb, whose cells have received their full dimen- 
sions, they gradually reduce the thickness of its edges, 
by gnawing down the sides of the cells, until they 







restore it. to its original lenticular form. They add 
a waxen block around the whole circumference, and 
on the edge of the comb construct pyramidal bottoms, 
such as those fabricated on ordinary occasions. It is 
a certain fact, that a comb never is extended in any 
direction unless the bees have thinned the edges, 
which are diminished throughout a sufficient space 
to remove any angular projection. 

“ The law which obliges these insects partly to de- 
molish the cells on the edges of the comb before en- 
larging it, unquestionably demands more profound in- 
vestigation. How can we account for instinct leading 
them to undo what they have executed with the utmost 
care ? The wonted regular gradation, which may be 
necessary for new cells, subsists among those ad- 
joining the edges of a comb recently constructed. 
But afterwards, when those on the edge are deepened 
like the cells of the rest of the surface, the bees no 
longer preserve the decreasing gradation which is 
seen in the new combs*.” 

The Finishing of the Cells. 

While the cells are building, they appear to be of 
a dull white colour, soft, even, though not smooth, 
and translucent: but in a few days they become 
tinged with yellow, particularly on the interior sur- 
face ; and their edges, from being thin, uniform, and 
yielding, become thicker, less regular, more heavy, 
and so firm that they will bend rather than break. 
New combs break on the slightest touch. There is 
also a glutinous substance observable around the 
orifices of the yellow cells, of reddish colour, unctuous, 
and odoriferous. Threads of the same substance are 
applied all around the interior of the cells, and at the 
summit of their angles, as if it were for the purpose 
* Huber on Bees, p. 391. 

 



of binding and strengthening the walls. These 
yellow cells also require a much higher temperature 
of water to melt them than the white ones. 

It appeared evident, therefore, that another sub- 
stance, different from wax, had been employed in 
varnishing; the orifices and strengthening; the in- 
terior of the cells. M. Huber, by numerous ex- 
periments, ascertained the resinous threads lining 
the cells, as well as the resinous substance around 
their orifice, to be propolis ; for he traced them, 
as we mentioned in our account of propolis, from 
the poplar buds where they collected it, and saw 
them apply it to the cells ; but the yellow colour is 
not imparted by propolis, to which it bears no ana- 
logy. We are, indeed, by no means certain what 
it is, though it was proved by experiment not to 
arise from the heat of the hives, nor from emanations 
of honey, nor from particles of pollen. Perhaps 
it may be ascribed to the bees rubbing their teeth, 
feet, and other parts of their body on the surfaces 
where they seem to rest; orto their tongue (haustellum) 
sweeping from right to left like a fine pliant pencil, 
when it appears to leave some sprinkling of a trans- 
parent liquid. 

Beside painting and varnishing their cells in this 
manner, they take care to strengthen the weaker parts 
of their edifice by means of a mortar composed of 
propolis and wax, and named pissoceros* by the an- 
cients, who first observed it, though Reaumur was 
somewhat doubtful respecting the existence of such 
a composition. We are indebted to the shrewd ob- 
servations of Huber for a reconcilement of the Roman 
and the French naturalists. The details which he 
has given of his discovery are perhaps the most in- 
teresting in his delightful book. 

“ Soon,” he says, “ after some new combs had been 
* From two Greek words, signifying pilch and wax, 







finished in a hive, manifest disorder and agitation pre- 
vailed among the bees. They seemed to attack their 
own works. The primitive cells, whose structure we 
had admired, were scarcely recognizable. Thick and 
massy walls, heavy, shapeless pillars, were substituted 
for the slight partitions previously built with such regu- 
larity. The substance had changed along with the form, 
being composed apparently of wax and propolis. From 
the perseverance of the workers in their devastations, 
we suspected that they proposed some useful alteration 
of their edifices ; and our attention was directed to the 
cells least injured. Several were yet untouched ; but 
the bees soon rushed precipitately on them, destroyed 
the tubes, broke down the wax, and threw all the 
fragments about. But we remarked, that the bottom 
of the cells of the first row was spared ; neither were 
the corresponding parts on both faces of the comb 
demolished at the same time. The bees laboured at 
them alternately, leaving some of the natural sup- 
ports, otherwise the comb would have fallen down, 
which was not their object : they wished, on the con- 
trary, to provide it a more solid base, and to secure 
its union to the vault of the hive, with a substance 
whose adhesive properties infinitely surpassed those 
of wax. The propolis employed on this occasion 
had been deposited in a mass over a cleft of the hive, 
and had hardened in drying, which probably ren- 
dered it more suitable for the purpose. But the bees 
experienced some difficulty in making any impression 
on it ; and we thought, as also had appeared to M. 
de Reaumur, that they softened it with the same 
frothy matter from the tongue which they use to ren- 
der wax more ductile. 

“ We very distinctly observed the bees mixing 
fragments of old wax with the propolis, kneading the 
two substances together to incorporate them ; and 
the compound was employed in rebuilding the cells 







that had been destroyed. But they did not now fol- 
low their ordinary rules of architecture, for they were 
occupied by the solidity of their edifices alone. 
Night intervening, suspended our observations, but 
next morning confirmed what we had seen. 

“ We find, therefore, that there is an epoch in the 
labour of bees, when the upper foundation of their 
combs is constructed simply of wax, as Reaumur 
believed ; and that after all the requisite conditions 
have been attained, it is converted to a mixture of wax 
and propolis, as remarked by Pliny so many ages 
before us. Thus is the apparent contradiction be- 
tween these two great naturalists explained. But 
this is not the utmost extent of the foresight of these 
insects. When they have plenty of wax, they make 
their combs the full breadth of the hive, and solder 
them to the glass or wooden sides, by structures 
more or less approaching the form of cells, as 
circumstances admit. But should the supply of wax 
fail before they have been able to give sufficient 
diameter to the combs whose edges are rounded, 
large intervals remain between them and the upright 
sides of the hive, and they are fixed only at the top. 
Therefore did not the bees provide against it, by con- 
structing great pieces of wax mixed with propolis, in 
the intervals, they might be borne down by the 
weight of the honey. These pieces are of irregular 
shape, strangely hollowed out, and their cavities void 
of symmetry r \” 

It is remarked by the lively Abbe La Pluche, that 
the foundations of our houses sink with the earth on 
which they are built, the walls begin to stoop by de- 
grees, they nod with age, and bend from their per- 
pendicular; — lodgers damage everything, and time is 
continually introducing some new decay. The man- 
sions of bees, on the contrary, grow stronger the 
* Huber on Bees, p. 415. 







oftener they change inhabitants. Every bee-grub, 
before its metamorphosis into a nymph, fastens its 
skin to the partitions of its cell, but in such a man- 
ner as to make it correspond with the lines of the 
angles, and without in the least disturbing the regula- 
rity of the figure. During summer, accordingly, the 
same lodging may serve for three or four grubs in 
succession ; and in the ensuing season it may accom- 
modate an equal number. Each grub never fails to 
fortify the panels of its chamber by arraying them 
with its spoils, and the contiguous cells receive a si- 
milar augmentation from its brethren *. Reaumur 
found as many as seven or eight of these skins 
spread over one another : so that all the cells being 
incrusted with six or seven coverings, well dried and 
cemented with propolis, the whole fabric daily ac- 
quires a new degree of solidity. 

It is obvious, however, that by a repetition of this 
process the cell might be rendered too contracted ; 
but in such a case the bees know well how to pro- 
ceed, by turning the cells to other uses, such as ma- 
gazines for bee-bread and honey. It has been re- 
marked, however, that in the hive of a new swarm, 
during the months of July and August, there are 
fewer small bees or nurse-bees, than in one that has 
been tenanted four or five years. The workers, in- 
deed, clean out the cell the moment that a young- 
bee leaves its cocoon, but they never detach the 
silky film which it has previously spun on the walls 
of its cell. But though honey is deposited after the 
young leave the cells, the reverse also happens ; and 
accordingly when bees are bred in contracted cells, 
they are by necessity smaller, and constitute, in fact, 
the important class of nurse-bees. 

We are not disposed, however, to go quite so far as 
an American periodical writer, who says, “ Thus we 
* Spectacle de la Nature, vol. i. 




see that the contraction of the cell may diminish the 
size of a bee, even to the extinction of life , just as the 
contraction of a Chinese shoe reduces the foot even to 
uselessness*.” We know, on the contrary, that the 
queen bee will not deposit eggs in a cell either too 
small or too large for the proper rearing of the young. 
In the case of large cells, M. Huber took advantage 
of a queen that was busy depositing the eggs of work- 
ers, to remove all the common cells adapted for their 
reception, and left only the large cells appropriated for 
males. As this was done in June, when bees are most 
active, he expected that they would have immediately 
repaired the breaches he had made, but to his great 
surprise they did not make the slightest movement 
for that purpose. In the meanwhile the queen, being 
oppressed by her eggs, was obliged to drop them 
about at random, preferring this to depositing 
them in the male cells which she knew to be too 
large. At length she did deposit six eggs in the 
large cells, which were hatched, as usual, three days 
after. The nurse-bees, however, seemed to be aware 
that they could not be reared there, and, though they 
supplied them with food, did not attend to them re- 
gularly. M. Huber found that they had been all re- 
moved from the cells during the night, and the busi- 
ness both of laying and nursing was at a complete 
stand for twelve days, when he supplied them again 
with a comb of small cells, which the queen almost 
immediately filled with eggs, and in some cells she 
laid five or six. 



The architecture of the hive, which we have thus 
detailed, is that of bees receiving the aid of human 
care, and having external coverings of a convenient 
form, prepared tor their reception. In this country 
bees are not found in a wild state ; though it is not 

* North American Rev., Oct. 1828, p. 355. 







uncommon for swarms to stray from their proprietors. 
But these stray swarms do not spread colonies 
through our woods, as they are said to do in America. 
In the remoter parts of that continent there are no wild 
bees. They precede civilization; and thus when the 
Indians observe a swarm they say “ the white man is 
coming.” There is evidence of bees having abounded 
in these islands, in the earlier periods of our history ; 
and Ireland is particularly mentioned by the Venerable 
Bede as being “ rich in milk and honey The hive- 
bee has formed an object of economical culture in 
Europe at least for two thousand years ; and Varro 
describes the sort of hives used in his time, 1870 
years ago. We are not aware, however, that it is 
now to be found wild in the milder clime of Southern 
Europe, any more than it is in our own island. 

The wild bees of Palestine principally hived in 
rocks. “ He made him,” says Moses, “ to suck 
honey out of the rockf-” “With honey out of the 
rock,” says the Psalmist, “ should I have satisfied 
thee J.” In the caves of Salsette and Elephanta, at 
the present day, they hive in the clefts of the rocks, 
and the recesses among the fissures, in such num- 
bers, as to become very troublesome to visiters. 
Their nests hang in innumerable clusters ||. 

We are told of a little black stingless bee found in 
the island of Guadaloupe, which hives in hollow trees 
or in the cavities of rocks by the sea side, and lays 
“ up honey in cells about the size and shape of 
pigeons’ eggs. These cells are of a black or deep 
violet colour, and so joined together as to leave no 
space between them. They hang in clusters almost 
like a bunch of grapes The following are men- 
tioned by Lindley as indigenous to Brazil. “ On an 

* “Hibernia dives laclis ac mellis insula.” — Beda, Hist. Eo 
cles. i., 7. f Deut. xxxii. 13. J Psalm lxxxi. 16. 

|| Forbes, Orien. Mem, i. Amer. Q.Rev., iii. p.383. 







excursion towards Upper Tapagippe,” says he, “ and 
skirting- the dreary woods which extend to the interior, 
I observed the trees more loaded with bees’ nests 
than even in the neighbourhood of Porto Seguro. 
They consist of a ponderous shell of clay cemented 
similarly to martins’ nests, swelling from high trees 
about a foot thick, and forming an oval mass full 
two feet in diameter. When broken, the wax is 
arranged as in our hives, and the honey abundant*.” 

Captain Basil Hall found in South America the 
hive of a honey-bee very different from the Brazilian, 
but nearly allied to, if not the same, as that of 
Guadaltoupe. “ The hive we saw opened,” he says, 
“was only partly tilled, which enabled us to see the 
economy of the interior to more advantage. The 
honey is not contained in the elegant hexagonal cells 
of our hives, but in wax-bags, not quite so large as 
an egg. These bags or bladders are hung round the 
sides of the hive, and appear about half full ; the 
quantity being probably just as great as the strength 
of the wax will bear without tearing. Those near 
the bottom, being better supported, are more filled 
than the upper ones. In the centre of the lower part 
of the hive we observed an irregularly-shaped mass of 
comb, furnished with cells like those of our bees, all 
containing young ones in such an advanced state, 
that, when we broke the comb, and let them out, they 
flew merrily away.” 

Clavigero, in his History of Mexico, evidently de- 
scribing the same species of bee, says it abounds in 
Yucatan, and makes the honey of Estabentum, the 
finest in the world, and which is taken every two 
months. He mentioned another species of bee, 
smaller in size, and also without a sting, which forms 
its nest of the shape of a sugarloaf, and as large or 
larger. These are suspended from trees, particularly 
* Roy, Mil. Chroii. quoted in Kirby and Spence. 







from the oak, and are much more populous than our 
common hives. 

Wild honey-bees of some species appear also to 
abound in Africa. Mr. Park, in his second volume 
of travels, tells us that some of his associates im- 
prudently attempted to rob a numerous hive of its 
honey, when the exasperated bees, rushing out to 
defend their property, attacked their assailants with 
great fury, and quickly compelled the whole com- 
pany to fly. 

At the Cape of Good Hope the bees themselves 
must be less formidable, or more easily managed, as 
their hives are sought for with avidity. Nature has 
there provided man with a singular and very effi- 
cient assistant in a bird, most appropriately named 
the Honey-guide ( Indicator major , Vieillot; Cu - 
cuius indicator , La.tham). The honey-guide, so far 
from being alarmed at the presence of man, appears 
anxious to court his acquaintance, and flits from 
tree to tree with an expressive note of invitation, 
the meaning of which is well known both to the 
colonists and the Hottentots. A person invited by 
the honey-guide seldom refuses to follow it on- 
wards till it stops, as it is certain to do, at some 
hollow tree containing a bee-hive, usually well stored 
with honey and wax. It is probable that the bird 
finds itself inadequate to the attack of a legion of 
bees, or to penetrate into the interior of the hive, and 
is thence led to invite an agent more powerful than 
itself. The person invited, indeed, always leaves the 
bird a share of the spoil, as it would be considered 
sacrilege to rob it of its due, or in any way to injure 
so useful a creature. 

The Americans, who have not the African honey- 
guide, employ several well-known methods to track 
bees to their hives. One of the most common 
though ingenious modes, is to place a piece of bee- 





bread on a flat surface, a tile for instance, surround- 
ing it with a circle of wet white paint. , The bee, 
whose habit it is always to alight on the edge of any 
plane, has to travel through the paint to reach the 
bee-bread. When, therefore, she flies off, the ob- 
server can track her by the white on her body. The 
same operation is repeated at another place, at some 
distance from the first, and at right angles to the bee- 
line, just ascertained. The position of the hive is 
easily determined, for it lies in the angle made by the 
intersection of the bee-lines. Another method is 
described in the Philosophical Transactions for 1721. 
The bee-hunter decoys, by a bait of honey, some of 
the bees into his trap, and when he has secured as 
many as he judges will suit his purpose, he incloses 
one in a tube, and, letting it fly, marks its course by 
a pocket compass. Departing to some distance, he 
liberates another, observes its course, and in this 
manner determines the position of the hive, upon the 
principle already detailed. These methods of bee- 
hunting depend upon the insect’s habit of always 
flying in a right line to its home. Those who have 
read Cooper’s tale of the ‘ Prairie’ must well remem- 
ber the expression of “ lining a bee to its hive.” 

In reading these and similar accounts of the 
bees of distant parts of the world, we must not 
conclude that the descriptions refer to the same 
species as the common honey-bee. There are nu- 
merous species of social bees which, while they differ 
in many circumstances, agree in the practice of 
storing up honey, in the same way as we have nu- 
merous species of the mason-bee and of the humble 
bee. Of the latter Mr. Stephens enumerates no less 
than forty-two species indigenous to Britain. 





The operations of an insect in boring’ into a leaf or 
a bud to form a lodgment for its eggs appear very 
simple. The tools, however, by which these effects 
are performed are very complicated and curious. In 
the case of gall-flies ( Cynips ), the operation itself is 
not so remarkable as its subsequent chemical effects. 
These effects are so different from any others that may 
be classed under the head of Insect Architecture, that 
we shall reserve them for the latter part of this vo- 
lume — although, with reference to the use of galls, 
the protection of eggs and larvae, they ought to find 
a place here. We shall, however, at present confine 
ourselves to those which simply excavate a nest, with- 
out producing a tumour. 

The first of these insects which we shall mention 
is celebrated for its song, by the ancient Greek poets, 
under the name of Tem^. The Romans called it 
Cicada, which we sometimes, but erroneously, trans- 
late “ grasshopper for the grasshoppers belong to 
an entirely different order of insects. We shall, there- 
fore, take the liberty of calling the Cicadae, Tree- 
hoppers, to which the cuckoo -spit insect ( Tettigonia 
spumaria , Oliv.) is allied ; but there is only one of 
the true cicadae hitherto ascertained to be British, 
namely, the Cicada hcematodes (Linn.), which was 
taken in the New Forest, Hampshire, by Mr. Daniel 
Bydder. 

M. Reaumur was exceedingly anxious to study the 
economy of those insects ; but they not being indi- 
genous in the neighbourhood of Paris, he commis- 





sionecl liis friends to send him some from more 
southern latitudes, and he procured in this way spe- 
cimens not only from the South of France and 
from Italy, but also from Egypt. From these 
specimens he has given the best account of them 
yet published ; for though, as he tells us, he had 
never had the pleasure of seeing one of them alive, 
the more interesting parts of their structure can 
be studied as well in dead as in living specimens. 
We ourselves possess several specimens from New 
Holland, upon which we have verified some of the 
more interesting’ observations of Reaumur. 

Virgil tells us, that in his time “ the cicadse burst 
the very shrubs with their querulous music*;” but 
we may well suppose that he was altogether unac- 
quainted with the singular instrument by means of 
which they can actually (not poetically) cut grooves 
in the branches they select for depositing their eggs. 
It is the male, as in the case of birds, which fills 
the woods with his song ; while the female, though 
mute, is no less interesting to the naturalist on ac- 
count of her curious ovipositor. This instrument, 
like all those with which insects are furnished by 
nature for cutting, notching, or piercing, is com- 
posed of a horny substance, and is also considerably 
larger than the size of the tree-hopper would pro- 
portionally indicate. It can on this account be par- 
tially examined without a microscope, being, in some 
of the larger species, no less than five lines! in length. 

The ovipositor or auger ( tariere ) as Reaumur calls 
it, is lodged in a sheath which lies in a groove of the 
terminating ring of the belly. It requires only a very 
slight pressure to cause the instrument to protrude 
from its sheath, when it appears to the naked eye to 
be of equal thickness throughout except at the point, 

* Cantu querulae rumpent arbusta cicada-. Georg, iii. 328. 
f A line is about the twelfth part of an inch. 







where it is somewhat enlarged and angular, and on 
both sides finely indented with teeth. A more mi- 
nute examination of the sheath demonstrates that it 
is composed of two horny pieces slightly curved, and 
ending in the form of an elongated spoon, the concave 
part of which is adapted to receive the convex end of 
the ovipositor. 

When the protruded instrument is further examined 
with a microscope, the denticulations, nine in number 
on each side, appear strong, and arranged with great 
symmetry, increasing in fineness towards the point, 
where there are three or four very small ones, beside 
the nine that are more obvious. The magnifier also 
shews that the instrument itself, which appeared sim- 
ple to the naked eye, is in fact composed of three 
different pieces, two exterior armed with the teeth 
before-mentioned, denominated by Reaumur files, 
(limes), and another pointed like a lancet, and not 
denticulated. The denticulated pieces moreover are 
capable of being moved forwards and backwards, 
while the centre one remains stationary, and as this 
motion is effected by pressing a pin or the blade of a 
knife over the muscles on either side at the origin of 
the ovipositor, it may be presumed that those mus- 
cles are destined for producing similar movements 
when the insect requires them. By means of a finely 
pointed pin carefully introduced between the pieces, 
and pushed very gently downwards, they may be, 
with no great difficulty, separated in their whole ex- 
tent. 

The contrivance by which those three pieces are 
held united, while at the same time the two files can 
be easily put in motion, are similar to some of our 
own mechanical inventions, with this difference, that 
no human workman could construct an instrument of 
this description so small, fine, exquisitely polished, 
and fitting so exactly. We should have been apt to 

 



form the grooves in the central piece, whereas they 
are scooped out in the handles of the files, and play 
upon two projecting ridges in the central piece, by 
which means this is rendered stronger. M. Reaumur 
discovered that the best manner of showing the play of 
this extraordinary instrument is to cut it off with a 
pair of scissors near its origin, and then, taking it 
between the thumb and the finger at the point of 
section, work it gently to put the files in motion. 




Ovipositors, withjilcs, of Tree-hopper, magnified. 

Beside the muscles necessary for the movement 
of the files, the handle of each is terminated by a 
curve of the same hard horny substance as itself, 
which not only furnishes the muscles with a sort of 
lever, but serves to press, as with a spring, the two 
files close to the central piece, as is shewn in the 
lower figure. 

M. Pontedera, who studied the economy of the 
tree-hoppers with some care, was anxious to see the 







insect itself make use of the ovipositor in forming 
grooves in wood, but found that it was so shy and 
easily alarmed, that it took to flight whenever he 
approached ; a circumstance of which Reaumur takes 
advantage, to soothe his regret that the insects were 
not indigenous in his neighbourhood. But of their 
workmanship when completed, he had several speci- 
mens sent to him from Provence and Languedoc 
by the Marquis de Caumont. 

The gall-flies, when about to deposit their eggs, 
select growing plants and trees ; but the tree-hoppers, 
on the contrary, make choice of dead, dried branches, 
for the mother seems to be aware that moisture 
would injure her progeny. The branch, commonly 
a small one, in which eggs have been deposited, may 
be recognised by being covered with little oblong 
elevations caused by small splinters of the wood, de- 
tached at one end, but left fixed at the other by the 
insect. These elevations are for the most part in a 
line, rarely in a double line, nearly at equal distances 
from each other, and form a lid to a cavity in the 
wood about four lines in length, containing from 




E.vcavatiiinit f or eggs of Tree-hugger, with litis raised. 



four to ten eggs. It is to be remarked, that the 
insect always selects a branch of such dimensions, 
that it can get at the pith, not because the pith is 
more easily bored, for it does not penetrate into it at 
all, but to form a warm and safe bed for the eggs. 
M. Pontedera says, that when the eggs have been 
deposited, the insect closes the mouth of the hole 
with a gum capable of protecting them from the wea- 
ther ; but M. Reaumur thinks this only) a fancy, as 







out of a great number which he examined, he could 
discover nothing of the kind. Neither is such a pro- 
tection wanted ; for the woody splinters above men- 
tioned furnish a very good covering. 

The grubs hatched from these eggs (of which, M. 
Pontedera says, one female will deposit from five to 
seven hundred) issue from the same holes through 
which the eo-ffs have been introduced, and betake 
themselves to the ground to feed on the roots of 
plants. They are not transformed into chrysalides, 
but into active nymphs, remarkable for their fore 
limbs, which are thick, strong, and furnished with 
prongs for digging; and when we are told by Dr. Le 
Fevre, that they make their way easily into hard stiff 
clay, to the depth of two or three feet, we perceive 
how necessary to them such a conformation must be. 

Saw-Flies. 

An instrument for cutting grooves in wood, still 
more ingeniously contrived than that of the tree- 
hopper, was first observed by Vallisnieri, an eminent 
Italian naturalist, in a four-winged fly, most appro- 
priately denominated by M. Reaumur the saw-fly 
( Tenthredo ), of which many sorts are indigenous to 
Great Britain. The grubs from which those flies 
originate are indeed but too well known, as they fre- 
quently strip our rose, gooseberry, raspberry, and red 
currant trees of their leaves, and are no less destruc- 
tive to birch, alder, and willows ; while turnips and 
wheat suffer still more seriously by their ravages. These 
grubs may readily be distinguished from the cater- 
pillars of moths and butterflies, by having from six- 
teen to twenty-eight feet, by which they usually hang 
to the leaf they feed on, while they coil up the hinder 
part of their body in a spiral ring. The perfect flies 
are distinguished by four transparent wings ; and 







some of the most common have a flat body of a 
yellow or orange colour, while the head and shoulders 
are black. 

In order to see the ovipositor to which we shall 
for the present turn our chief attention, a female saw- 
fly must be taken, and her belly gently pressed, when 
a narrow slit will be observed to open at some dis- 
tance from the anus, and a short, pointed, and some- 
what curved body, of a brown colour and horny sub- 
stance, will be protruded. The curved plates which 
form the sides of the slit, are the termination of the 
sheath, in which the instrument lies concealed till it 
is wanted by the insect. The appearance of this in- 
strument, however, and its singular structure, cannot 
be well understood without the aid of a microscope. 




a, Ovipositor of Saw-fly, protruded from its Sheath , magnified. 

The instrument thus brought into view, is a very 
finely contrived saw, made of horn, and adapted 
for penetrating branches and other parts of plants, 
where the eggs are to be deposited. The ovipo- 
sitor saw of the insect is much more complicated 
than any of those employed by our carpenters. The 
teeth of our saws are formed in a line, but in such 
a manner, as to cut in two lines parallel to, and at 
a small distance from each other. This is effected 
by slightly bending the points of the alternate teeth 
right and left, so that one half of the whole teeth 






stand a little to the right, and the other half a little 
to the left. The distance of the two parallel lines 
thus formed is called the course of the saw, and it 
is only the portion of wood which lies in the course 
that is cut into saw-dust by the action of the instru- 
ment. It will follow, that in proportion to the thin- 
ness of a saw there will be the less destruction of 
wood which may be sawed. When cabinet-makers 
have to divide valuable wood into very thin leaves, 
they accordingly employ saws with a narrow course ; 
while sawyers who cut planks, use one with a broad 
course. The ovipositor saw being extremely fine, does 
not require the teeth to diverge much, but from the 
manner in which they operate, it is requisite that they 
should Hot stand like those of our saws in a straight 
line. The greater portion of the edge of the instru- 
ment, on the contrary, is towards the point some- 
what concave, similar to a scythe, while towards the 
base it becomes a little convex, the whole edge being 
nearly the shape of an Italic f. 




Ovipositor-saw of Saw-fly, with rasps shewn in the crosslines. 







The ovipositor-saw of the fly is put in motion in 
the same way as a carpenter’s hand-saw, supposing 1 
the tendons attached to its base to form the handle, 
and the muscles which put it in motion to be the 
hand of the carpenter. But the carpenter can only 
work one saw at a time, whereas each of these flies 
is furnished with two, equal and similar, which it 
works at the same time — one being advanced and 
the other retracted alternately. The secret, indeed, 
of working more saws than one at once is not un- 
known to our mechanics ; for two or three are some- 
times fixed in the same frame. These, however, not 
only all move upwards and downwards simultane- 
ously, but cut the wood in different places ; while 
the two saws of the ovipositor work in the same cut, 
and, consequently, though the teeth are extremely 
fine, the effect is similar to a saw with a wide set. 

It is important, seeing that the ovipositor-saws 
are so fine, that they be not bent or separated while 
in operation — and this, also, nature has provided for, 
by lodging the backs of the saws in a groove, formed 
by two membranous plates, similar to the structure 
of a clasp-knife. These plates are thickest at the 
base, becoming gradually thinner as they approach 
the point which the form of the saws require. Ac- 
cording to Vallisnieri, it is not the only use of this 
apparatus to form a back for the saws, he having 
discovered, between the component membranes, two 
canals, which he supposes are employed to conduct 
the eggs of the insect into the grooves which it has 
hollowed out for them*. 

The teeth of a carpenter’s saw, it may be remarked, 
are simple, whereas the teeth of the ovipositor saw 
are themselves denticulated with fine teeth. The 
latter, also, combines at the same time the properties 
of a saw and of a rasp or file. So far as we are aware, 
* Reaumur, Mem. ties Insectes, y. p. iii. 





 



these two properties have never been combined in 
any of the tools of our carpenters. The rasping 
part of the ovipositor, however, is not constructed 
like our rasps, with short teeth thickly studded toge- 
ther, but has teeth almost as long as those of the 
saw, and placed contiguous to them on the back of 
the instrument, resembling in their form and setting 
the teeth of a comb, as may be seen in the figure. 
Of course, such observations are conducted with the 
aid of a microscope. 




Portion of Saw-fly's comb-toothed rasp, and saw. 



When a female saw-fly has selected the branch of 
a rose-tree, or any other, in which to deposit her eggs, 
she may be seen bending the end of her belly inwards, 
in form of a crescent, and protruding her saw, at the 
same time, to penetrate the bark or wood. She main- 
tains this recurved position so long as she works in 
deepening the groove; but when she has attained the 
depth required, she unbends her body into a straight 
line, and in this position works upon the place 
lengthways, by applying the saw more horizontally. 
When she has rendered the groove as large as she 
wishes, the motion of the tendons ceases, and an 
egg is placed in the cavity. The saw is then with- 
drawn into the sheath for about two-thirds of its 
length, and at the same moment, a sort of frothy 
liquid, similar to a lather made with soap, is 
dropped over the egg, either for the purpose of glue- 
ing it in its place, or sheathing it from the action of 
the juices of the tree. She proceeds in the same 
manner in sawing out a second groove, ancl so on in 







succession till she has deposited all her eggs, some- 
times to the number of twenty-four. The grooves 
are usually placed in a line, at a small distance from 
one another, on the same branch ; but sometimes the 
mother-fly shifts to another, or to a different part of 
the branch, when she is either scared or finds it un- 
suitable. She commonly, also, takes more than one 
day to the work, notwithstanding the superiority of 
her tools. Reaumur has seen a saw-fly make six 
grooves in succession, which occupied her about ten 
hours and a half. 

The grooves, when finished, have externally little 
elevation above the level of the bark, appearing like 
the puncture of a lancet in the human skin ; but in 
the course of a day or two the part becomes first 
brown and then black, while it also becomes more 
and more elevated. This increased elevation is not 
owing to the growth of the bark, the fibres of which, 
indeed, have been destroyed by the ovipositor saw, 
but to the actual growth of the egg ; for, when a new- 
laid egg of the saw-fly is compared with one which 
has been several days enclosed in the groove, the 
latter will be found to be very considerably the larger. 
This growth of the egg is contrary to the analogy 
observable in the eggs of birds, and even of most 
other insects ; but it has its advantages. As it 
continues to increase, it raises the bark more and 
more, and consequently widens, at the same time, 
the slit at the entrance ; so that, when the grub 
is hatched, it finds a passage ready for its exit. The 
mother-fly seems to be aware of this growth of her 
eggs, for she takes care to deposit them at such 
distances as may prevent their disturbing one another 
by their developement. 

Another species of saw-fly, with a yellow body and 
deep violet-coloured wings, which also selects the 
rose-tree, deposits her eggs in a different manner. 
Instead of making a groove for each egg, like the 





preceding, she forms a large single groove, sufficient 
for about two dozen eggs. These eggs are all ar- 
ranged in pairs, forming two straight lines parallel 
to the sides of the branch. The eggs, however, though 
thus deposited in a common groove, are carefully 
kept each in its place ; for a ridge of the wood is lelt 
to prevent those on the right from touching those on 
the left — and not only so, but between each egg of a 
row a thin partition of wood is left, forming a shallow 



The edges of this groove, it will be obvious, must 
be farther apart than those which only contain a 
single egg, and, in fact, the whole is open to inspec- 
tion ; but the eggs are kept from falling out, both 
by the frothy glue before mentioned, and by the walls 
of the cells containing them. They were observed 
also, by Vallisnieri, to increase in size like the pre- 
ceding. 



cell. 




Nest of eggs of Saw-fly, in rose-tree. 





The labours of those insect-architects, which we have 
endeavoured to describe in the preceding pages, have 
been chiefly those of mothers to form a secure nest 
for their eggs, and the young hatched from them, 
during the first stage of their existence. But a much 
more numerous, and not less ingenious class of 
architects, may be found among the newly hatched 
insects themselves, who, untaught by experience, and 
altogether unassisted by previous example, manifest 
the most marvellous skill in the construction of 
tents, houses, galleries, covert-ways, fortifications, 
and even cities, not to sf>eak of subterranean caverns 
and subaqueous apartments, which no human art 
could rival. 

The caterpillars which are familiarly termed leaf- 
rollers, are perfect hermits. Each lives in a cell, 
which it begins to construct almost immediately after 
it is hatched; and the little structure is at once a 
house which protects the caterpillar from its enemies, 
and a store of food for its subsistence, while it remains 
shut up in its prison. But the insect only devours 
the inner folds. The art which these caterpillars 
exercise, although called into action but once, 
perhaps, in their lives, is perfect. They accomplish 
their purpose with a mechanical skill, which is re- 
markable for its simplicity and unerring success. 
The art of rolling leaves into a secure and immovable 









cell may not appear very difficult; — nor would it 
be so if the caterpillars had fingers, or any parts 
which were equivalent to those delicate and admirable 
natural instruments with which man accomplishes his 
most elaborate works. And yet the human fingers 
could not roll a rocket-case of paper more regularly 
than the caterpillar rolls his house of leaves. A leaf 
is not a very easy substance to roll. In some trees 
it is very brittle. It has also a natural elasticity, — 
a disposition to spring back if it be bent, — which is 
caused by the continuity of its threads, or nervures. 
This elasticity is speedily overcome by the ingenuity 
with which the caterpillar works ; and the leaf is 
thus retained in its artificial position for many weeks, 
under every variety of temperature. We will examine, 
in detail, how these little leaf-rollers accomplish their 
task. 

One of the most common as well as the most 
simple fabrics constructed by caterpillars, may be dis- 
covered during summer on almost every kind of 
bush and tree. We shall take as examples those 
which are found on the lilac, and on the oak. 

A small but very pretty chocolate-coloured moth, 




Lilac-tree Moth. (Lazotccnia Ribeanct, Stephens ?) 

abundant in every garden, but not readily seen from 
its frequently alighting on the ground which is so 
nearly of its own colour, deposits its eggs on the 
leaves of the lilac, and of some other trees, appro- 
priating a leaf to each egg. As soon as the cater- 
pillar is hatched, it begins to secure itself from birds 
and predatory insects by rolling up the lilac leaf into 







the form of a gallery, where it may feed in safety. 
We have repeatedly seen one of them when just 
escaped from the egg, and only a few lines long, 
fix several silk threads from one edge of a leaf, to 
the other, or from the edge to the mid -rib. ‘Then 
going to the middle of the space, he shortened the 
threads by bending them with his feet, and conse- 
quently pulled the edges of the leaves into a circular 
form ; and he retained them in that position by glue- 
ing down each thread as he shortened it. In their 
younger state, those caterpillars seldom roll more 
than a small portion of the leaf ; but when farther 
advanced, they unite the two edges together in their 
whole extent, Avith the exception of a small opening 
at one end, by which an exit may be made in case 
of need. 




Nest of a Lilac-leaf Roller. 

Another species of caterpillar closely allied to this, 
rolls up the lilac-leaves in a different form, beginning 
at the end of a leaf, and fixing and pulling its threads 
till it gets it nearly into the shape of a scroll of 
parchment. To retain this form more securely, it is 

 



not contented, like the former insect, with threads 
fixed on the inside of the leaf ; but has also recourse 
to a few cables which it weaves on the outside. 



Another species of moth allied to the two pre- 
ceding, is of a pretty green colour, and lays its eggs 



upon the leaves of the oak. This caterpillar folds 
them up in a similar manner, but with this difference, 
that it works on the under surface of the leat, pulling 
the edge downwards and backwards, instead of for- 
wards and upwards. This species is very abundant. 




Another Nest of Lilac-tree Rollers. 




Small green Oak-moth. ( Tortrix Viridannf 








Nests of oak-leaf rolling Caterpillars. 

and may readily be found as soon as the leaves ex- 
pand. In June, when the perfect insect has ap- 
peared, by beating a branch of an oak, a whole shower 
of these pretty green moths may be shook into the air. 

Among the leaf-rolling caterpillars, there is a 
small dark-brown one, with a black head and six 
feet, very common in gardens on the currant-bush, 
or the leaves of the rose-tree. ( Lozotcevia Rosana t 
Stephens.) It is exceedingly destructive to the 
flower-buds. The eggs are deposited in the summer, 
and probably also in the autumn or in spring, in 
little oval or circular patches of a green colour. The 
grub makes its appearance with the first opening of 
the leaves, of whose structure in the half-expanded 
state it takes advantage to construct its summer tent. 
It is not, like some of the other leaf-rollers, contented 






with a single leaf, but weaves together as many as 
there are in the bud where it may chance to have been 
hatched, binding their discs so firmly with silk, that 
all the force of the ascending sap, and the increasing 
growth of the leaves cannot break through ; a farther 
expansion is of course prevented. The little inhabi- 
tant in the mean while banquets securely on the par- 
titions of its tent, eating door-ways from one apart- 
ment into another, through which it can escape in 
case of danger or disturbance. 

The leafits of the rose, it may be remarked, expand 
in nearly the same manner as a fan, and the opera- 
tions of this ingenious little insect retain them in the 
form of a fan nearly shut. Sometimes, however, it 
is not contented with one bundle of leafits, but by 
means of its silken cords unites all which spring from 
the same bud into a rain-proof canopy, under the 
protection of which it can feast on the flower-bud, 
and prevent it from ever blowing. 

In the instance, of the currant leaves, the proceed- 
ings of the grub are the same, but it cannot unite the 
plaits so smoothly as in the case of the rose leafits, 
and it requires more labour also, as the nerv- 
ures being stiff, demand a greater effort to bend 
them. When all the exertions of the insect prove 
unavailing: in its endeavours to draw the edges of a 
leaf together, it bends them inwards as far as it can, 
and weaves a close web of silk over the open space 
between. This is well exemplified in one of the 
commonest of our leaf-rolling caterpillars, which may 
be found as early as February on the leaves of the 
nettle and the white archangel ( Lamiuni album.) 
It is of a light dirty-green colour, spotted with black, 
and covered with a few hairs. In its young state it 
confines itself to the bosom of a small leaf, near the 
insertion of the leaf-stalk, partly bending the edges 
inwards, and covering in the interval with a silken 







curtain. As this sort of covering is not sufficient for 
concealment when the animal advances in growth, it 
abandons the base of the leaf for the middle, where 
it doubles up one side in a very secure and ingenious 
manner, 




Nest of the nettle leaf-rolling Caterpillar . 

We have watched this little architect begin and finish 
his tent upon a nettle in our study, the whole opera- 
tion taking more than half an hour *. He began by 
walking over the plant in all directions, examining the 
leaves severally, as if to ascertain which was best fitted 
for his purpose by being pliable, and bending with the 
weight of his body. Having found one to his mind, 
he placed himself along the mid-rib, to the edge of 
which he secured himself firmly with the pro-legs of 
his tail ; then stretching his head to the edge of the 
leaf, he fixed a series of parallel cables between it and 
the mid-rib, with another series crossing these at an 
acute angle. The position in which he worked was 
most remarkable, for he did not, as might have been 
supposed, spin his cables with his face to the leaf, 
but throwing himself on his back, which was turned 
towards the leaf, he hung with his whole weight by 
his first-made cables. This, by drawing them into 
the form of a curve, shortened them, and conse- 
quently pulled the edge of the leaf down towards the 
mid-rib. The weight of his body was not, however, 
the only power which he employed ; for, using the 
anal pro-legs as a point of support, he exerted the 

* J. R. 


 



whole muscles of his body to shorten his threads, 
and pull down the edge of the leaf. When he had 
drawn the threads as tight as he could, he held 
them till he spun fresh ones of sufficient strength to 
retain the leaf in the bent position into which he had 
pulled it. He then left the first series to hang loose 
while he shortened the fresh spun ones as before. 
This process was continued till he had worked down 
about an inch and a half of the leaf, as much as he 
deemed sufficient for his habitation. This was the 
first part of the architecture. 

By the time he had worked to the end of the fold 
he had brought the edge of the leaf to touch the 
mid-rib ; but it was only held in this position by a 
few of the last spun threads, for all the first spun 
ones hung loose within. Apparently aware of this, 
the insect protruded more than half of its body 
through the small aperture left at the end, and spun 
several bundles of threads on the outside precisely 
similar to those ropes of a tent which extend beyond 
the canvass, and are pegged into the ground. Un- 
willing to trust the exposure of his whole body 
on the outside, lest he should be seized by the 
first sand- wasp ( odyjierus ) or sparrow which might 
descry him, he now withdrew to complete the internal 
portion of his dwelling, where the threads were hang- 
ing loose and disorderly. For this purpose he turned 
his head about, and proceeded precisely as he had 
done at the beginning of his task, but taking care to 
spin his new threads so as to leave the loose ones on 
the outside, and make his apartment smooth and 
neat. When he again reached the opposite end, he 
constructed there also a similar series of cables on 
the outside, and then withdrew to give some final 
touches to the interior. 

It is said by Kirby and Spence *, that when these 
* Introd. vol. i, p. 457. 







leaf-rolling insects find that the larger nervures of 
the leaves are so strong as to prevent them from 
bending, they “ weaken it by gnawing it here and 
there half through.” We have never observed the 
circumstance, though we have witnessed the process 
in some hundreds of instances ; and we doubt the 
statement, from the careful survey which the insect 
makes of the capabilities of the leaf before the oper- 
ation is begun. If she found upon examination that 
a leaf would not bend, she would reject it, as we have 
often seen happen, and pass to another *. 

A species of leaf-roller, of the most diminutive 
size, merits particular mention, although it is not 
remarkable in colour or figure. It is without hair, 
of a greenish white, and has all the vivacity of the 
other leaf-rollers. Sorrel is the plant on which it 
feeds ; and the manner in which it rolls a portion of 
the leaf is very ingenious. 

The structure which it contrives is a sort of conical 
pyramid, composed of five or six folds lapped round 
each other. From the position of this little cone the 
caterpillar has other labours to perform, beside that 
of rolling the leaf. It first cuts across the leaf, its 
teeth acting as a pair of scissors ; but it does not 
entirely detach this segment. It rolls it up very gra- 
dually, by attaching threads of silk to the plane sur- 
face of the leaf, as we have before seen ; and then, 
having cut in a different direction, sets the cone 
upright, by weaving other threads, attached to the 
centre of the roll and the plane of the leaf, upon 
which it throws the weight of its body. This, it 
will be readily seen, is a somewhat complicated effort 
of mechanical skill. It has been minutely described 
by M. Reaumur; but the following representation 



* J. R. 






will perhaps make the process clearer than a more 
detailed account 




Leaf-rollinj Caterpillars of the Sorrel. 



This caterpillar, like those of which we have 
already spoken, devours all the interior of the roller. 
It weaves, also, in the interior, a small and thin co- 
coon of white silk, the tissue of which is made com- 
pact and close. It is then transformed into a chry- 
salis. 

The caterpillars of two of our largest and hand- 
somest butterflies, the Painted Lady ( Cynthia cardui, 
Stephens), and the Admirable, or Alderman of the 
London fly-fanciers ( Vanessa atalanta ), are also leaf- 
rollers. The first selects the leaves of the great spear- 
thistle, and sometimes those of the stemless, or star- 
thistle, which might be supposed rather difficult to 
bend ; but the caterpillar is four times as large and 
strong as those which we have been hitherto de- 
scribing. In some seasons it is plentiful ; in others 
it is rarely to be met with : but the Admirable is 
seldom scarce in any part of the country ; and by 







examining the leaves of nettles which appear folded 
edge to edge, in July and August, the caterpillar may 
be readily found. 




Nests of the Hesperia Malvce, with Caterpillar , Chrysalis , and Butterflies. 

Another butterfly ( Hesperia malvfs) is met with 
on dry banks where mallows grow, in May, or even 
earlier, and also in August, but is not indigenous. 
The caterpillar, which is grey, with a black head, 
and four sulphur-coloured spots on the neck, folds 
around it the leaves of the mallow, upon which 
it feeds. There is nothing, however, peculiarly 
different in its proceedings from those above de- 
scribed ; but the care with which it selects and rolls 
up one of the smaller leaves, when it is about to be 
transformed into a chrysalis, is worthy of remark ; it 





joins it, indeed, so completely round and round, that 
it has somewhat the resemblance of an egg. Within 
this green cell it lies secure, till the time arrives 
when it is ready to burst its cerements, and trust to 
the quickness of its wings for protection against its 
enemies. 

Among the nests of caterpillars which roll up par- 
cels of leaves, we know none so well contrived as 
those which are found upon willows and a species 
of osier. The lono* and narrow leaves of these 
plants are naturally adapted to be adjusted pa- 
rallel to each other ; for this is the direction which 




Nest of Willow 'leaf Roller. 







they have at the end of each stalk, when they are not 
entirely developed. One kind of small smooth cater- 
pillar ( Tortrix chlorana ), with sixteen feet, the 
under part of which is brown, and streaked with 
white, fastens these leaves together, and makes them 
up into parcels. There is nothing particularly strik- 
imr in the mechanical manner in which it constructs 
them. It does precisely what we should do in a 
similar case : it winds a thread round those leaves 
which must be kept together, from a little above their 
termination to a very short distance from their ex- 
treme point ; and as it finds the leaves almost con- 
stantly lying near each other, it has little difficulty in 
bringing them together, as is shewn in the cut, a. 

The prettiest of these parcels are those which are 
made upon a kind of osier, the borders of whose 
leaves sometimes form columnar bundles before they 
are become developed. A section of these leaves has 
the appearance of fillagree work. — (See b, p. 170.) 

A caterpillar which feeds upon the willow, and 
whose singular attitudes have obtained for it the trivial 
name of Ziczac, also constructs for itself an arbour 
of the leaves, by drawing them together in an inge- 
nious manner. M. Roesel * has given a tolerable 
representation of this nest, and of the caterpillar. 
The caterpillar is found in June; and the moth ( No - 
todonta ziczac) from May to July in the following 
year. — (See cut, p. 172.) 

Beside those caterpillars which live solitary in the 
folds of a leaf, there are others which associate, em- 
ploying their united powers to draw the leaves of the 
plants they feed upon into a covering for their com- 
mon protection. Among these we may mention the 
caterpillar of a small butterfly, the plantain or Glan- 

* Roesel, cl. ii. 3 Pap. Nocturn., tab. xx., fig. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 6. 

Q 2 




Ziczac Caterpillar and Nest. 

Although a colony of these caterpillars is not nu- 
merous, seldom amounting to a hundred individuals, 
the place which they have selected is not hard to dis- 
cover. Their abode may be seen in the meadow in 
form of a tuft of herbage covered with a white web, 
which may readily be mistaken, at first view, for that 
of a spider, but closer inspection soon corrects this 
notion. It is, in fact, a sort of common tent, in 
which the whole brood lives, eats, and undergoes the 
usual transformations. The shape of this tent, for 







ville fritillary ( Melitea cinxia ), which is very scarce 
in this country. 







the most part, approaches the pyramidal, though that 
depends much upon the natural growth of the her- 
bage which composes it. The interior is divided into 
compartments formed by the union of several small 
tents, as it were, to which others have been from time 
to time added according to the necessities of the com- 
munity. 

When they have devoured all the leaves, or at 
least those which are most tender and succulent, 
they abandon their first camp, and construct another 
contiguous to it under a tuft of fresh leaves. Several 
of these encampments may sometimes be seen within 
the distance of a foot or two, when they can find 
plantain ( Plantago lanceolata) fit for their purpose ; 
but though they prefer this plant, they content them- 
selves with grass if it is not to be procured. 

When they are about to cast their skins, but par- 
ticularly when they perceive the approach of winter, 
they construct a more durable apartment in the inte- 
rior of their principal tent. The ordinary web is 
thin and semi-transparent, permitting the leaves to 
be seen through it ; but their winter canvass, if we 
may call it so, is thick, strong, and quite opaque, 
forming a sort of circular hall without any partition, 
where the whole community lie coiled up and huddled 
together. 

Early in spring they issue forth in search of fresh 
food, and again construct tents to protect them from 
cold and rain, and from the mid-day sun. 

M. Reaumur found upon trial, that it was not only 
the caterpillars hatched from the eggs of the same 
mother which would unite in constructing the com- 
mon tent; for different broods, when put together, 
worked in the same social and harmonious manner. 
We ourselves ascertained, during the present sum- 
mer, (1829,) that this principle of sociality is not 
confined to the same species, nor even to the same 





genus. The experiment which we tried was to con- 
fine two broods of different species to the same branch 
by placing it in a glass of water to prevent their 
escape. The caterpillars which we experimented on 
were several broods of the brown-tail moth ( Porthesia 
auriflua), and the lackey ( Clisiocampa neustria). 
These we found to work with as much industry and 
harmony in constructing the common tent as if they 
had been at liberty on their native trees ; and when 
the lackeys encountered the brown-tails they mani- 
fested no alarm nor uneasiness, but passed over the 
backs of one another as if they had made only a por- 
tion of the branch. In none of their operations did 
they seem to be subject to any discipline, each indi- 
vidual appearing to work, in perfecting the structure, 
from individual instinct, in the same manner as was 
remarked by M. Huber, in the case of the hive-bees*. 
In making such experiments, it is obvious, that the 
species of caterpillars experimented with must feed 
upon the same sort of plant j\i 

The design of the caterpillars in rolling up the 
leaves is not only to conceal themselves from birds 
and predatory insects, but also to protect them- 
selves from the cuckoo-flies, which lie in wait in every 
quarter to deposit their eggs in their bodies, that their 
progeny may devour them. Their mode of conceal- 
ment, however, though it appear to be cunningly 
contrived and skilfully executed, is not always suc- 
cessful, their enemies often discovering their hiding 
place. We happened to see a remarkable instance of 
this last summer (182S), in the case of one of the 
lilac caterpillars which had changed into a chrysalis 
within the closely folded leaf. A small cuckoo-fly, 
aware, it should seem, of the very spot where the 
chrysalis lay within the leaf, was seen boring through 



* See p. 115, 







it with her ovipositor, and introducing her eggs 
through the punctures thus made into the body of the 
dormant insect. We allowed her to lay all her eggs, 
about six in number, and then put the leaf under an 
inverted glass. In a few days the eggs of the cuckoo- 
fly were hatched, the grubs devoured the lilac chry- 
salis, and finally changed into pupae in a case of yel- 
low silk, and into perfect insects like their parent *. 

* J. R. 





The habitations of the insects which we have just 
described consist of growing leaves, bent, rolled, 
or pressed together, and fixed in their positions by 
silken threads. But there are other habitations of a 
similar kind which are constructed by cutting out 
and detaching a whole leaf, or a portion of a leaf. We 
have already seen how dexterously the upholsterer- 
bees cut out small parts of leaves and petals with 
their mandibles, and fit them into their cells. Some 
of the caterpillars do not exhibit quite so much neat- 
ness and elegance as the leaf-cutting bees, though 
their structures answer all the purposes intended ; 
but there are others, as we shall presently see, that 
far excel the bees, at least, in the delicate minutiae 
of their workmanship. We shall first advert to 
those structures which are the most simple. 

Not far from Longchamps, in a road through the 
Bois de Boulogne, is a large marsh, which M. Reau- 
mur never observed to be in a dry state even during 
summer. This marsh is surrounded with very lofty 
oaks, and abounds with pondweed, the water plant 
named by botanists potamogeto/i. The shining- 
leaves of this plant, which are as large as those of 
the laurel or orange-tree, but thicker and more 
fleshy, are spread upon the surface of the water. 
H aving pulled up several of these, about the middle 
of June, M. Reaumur observed, beneath one of the 







first which he examined, an elevation of an oval 
shape, which was formed out of a leaf of the same 
plant. He carefully examined it, and discovered 
that threads of silk were attached to this elevation. 
Breaking the threads, he raised up one of the ends, 
and saw a cavity in which a caterpillar ( Hydrocampa 
Potamogata ) was lodged. An indefatigable ob- 
server, such as M. Reaumur, would naturally follow 
up this discovery ; and he has accordingly given us 
a memoir of the pondweed tent-maker, distinguished 
by his usual minute accuracy. 

In order to make a new cocoon, the caterpillar 
fastens itself on the underside of a leaf of the Pota- 
mogeton. With its mandibles it pierces some part of 
this leaf, and afterwards gradually gnaws a curve 
line, marking the form of the piece which it wishes to 
detach. When the caterpillar has cut off, as from a piece 
of cloth, a patch of leaf of the size and shape suited 
to its purpose, it is provided with half of the mate- 
rials requisite for making a tent. It takes hold of 
this piece by its mandibles, and conveys it to the 
situation on the underside of its own, or another 

I leaf, whichever is found most appropriate. It is there 
disposed, in such a manner, that the underpart of 
the patch — the side which was the underpart of the 
entire leaf — is turned towards the underpart of the 
new leaf, so that the inner walls of the cocoon are 
always made by the underpart of two portions of 
leaf. The leaves of the potamogeton are a little con- 
cave on the underside ; and thus the caterpillar pro- 
duces a hollow cell, though the rims are united. 

The caterpillar secures the leaf in its position by 
threads of white silk. It then weaves a cocoon in 
the cavity which is somewhat thin, but of very close 
tissue. There it shuts itself up to appear again only 
in the form of the perfect insect, and is soon trans- 
formed into a chrysalis. In this cocoon of silk no 






point touches the water ; whilst the cocoon of leaves, 
lined with silk, has been constructed underneath the 
water. This fact proves that the caterpillar has a 
particular art by which it repels the water from be- 
tween the leaves. . 

When the caterpillar, which has thus conveyed, and 
disposed a patch of leaf against another leaf, is not 
ready to be transformed into a chrysalis, it applies 
itself to make a cocoon — a habitation which it may 
carry everywhere about with it. It begins by slightly 
fixing the piece against the whole leaf, leaving inter- 
vals all round, between the piece and leaf, at which 
it may project its head. The piece which it has 
fixed serves as a model for cutting out a similar 
piece in the other leaf. The caterpillar puts them 
accurately together, except at one end of the oval, 
where an opening is left for the insect to project its 
head through When the caterpillar is inclined to 
change its situation, it draws itself forward by means 
of its scaly limbs rivetted upon the leaf. The mem- 
branous limbs which are rivetted against the inner 
sides of the cocoon, oblige it to follow the anterior 
part of the body, as it advances. The caterpillar, 
also, puts its head out of the cocoon every time it 
desires to eat. 

There is found on the common chick-weed ( Stel - 
laria media ) towards the end of July, a middle-sized 
smooth green caterpillar, having three brown spots 
bordered with white on the back, and six leo-s and 
ten pro-legs, whose architecture is worthy of obser- 
vation. When it is about to go into chrysalis, to- 
wards the beginning of August, it gnaws off, one by 
one, a number of the leaves and smaller twigs of the 
chick-weed, and adjusts them into an oval cocoon, 
somewhat rough and unfinished, externally, but 
smooth, uniform, and finely tapestried with white 
silk within. Here it undergoes its transformations 







securely, and when the period of its pupa trance has 
expired in the following- July, it makes its exit in the 
form of a yellowish moth, with several brown spots 
above, and a brown band on each of its four wings 
below. It is also furnished with a sort of tail. 

On the cypress spurge ( Euphorbia cyparissias ), 
a native woodland plant, but not of very common 
occurrence, may be found, towards the end of Octo- 
ber, a caterpillar of a middle size, sparely tufted 
with hair, and striped with black, white, red, and 
brown. The leaves of the plant which are in the 
form of short narrow blades of grass, are made choice 
of by the caterpillar to construct its cocoon, which it 
does with great neatness and regularity, the end of 
each leaf, after it has been detached from the plant, 
being fixed to the stem, and the other leaves placed 
parallel, as they are successively added. The other 
ends of all these are bent inwards, so as to form a 
uniformly rounded oblong figure, somewhat larger 
at one end than at the other. 




Cypress-Spurge Caterpillar— (Acronycta Euphrasia; ?)—with a Cocoon , 

on a branch. 

A caterpillar which builds a very similar cocoon 
to the last mentioned, may be found upon a more 
common plant— the yellow snap-dragon or toad-flax 







( Antirrhinum linaria ) — which is to be seen in almost 
every hedge. It is somewhat shaped like a leech, is 
of a middle size, and the prevailing colour pearl-grey, 
but striped with yellow and black. It spins up 
about the beginning of September, forming the outer 
coating of pieces of detached leaves of the plant, and 
sometimes of whole leaves placed longitudinally, the 
whole disposed with great symmetry and neatness. 
The moth appears in the following June. 

It is worthy of remark, as one of the most 
striking instances of instinctive foresight, that the 
caterpillars which build structures of this substantial 
description, are destined to lie much longer in their 
chrysalis trance, than those which spin merely a 
flimsy web of silk. For the most part, indeed, the 
latter undergo their final transformation in a few 
weeks; while the former continue entranced the larger 
portion of a year, appearing in the perfect state the 
summer after their architectural labours have been 
completed.* This is a remarkable example of the 
instinct which leads these little creatures to act with 
a foresight in many cases much clearer than the 
dictates of human prudence. In the examples be- 
fore us, the instinct is more delicate and complex 
than that which directs other animals to provide a 
burrow for their winter sleep. It is not unreasonable 
to suppose that the one caterpillar is aware, while it 
is building the cocoon, that the moth into which it 
is about to be changed will not be in a fit state to 
appear before the succeeding summer. The other, 
pursuing a similar course of thought, may feel that 
the moth will see the light in a few weeks. The 
comparative distances of time certainly appear most 
difficult to be understood by an insect ; for, as far as 
we know, quadrupeds do not carry their intelligence 
to such an extent. And yet in the solitary case of 

* J. R. 







provision for a future progeny, the instinct is in- 
variably subtle and extraordinary. What, for in- 
stance, is more remarkable than that the insect should 
always place her eggs where her progeny will find 
the food which is best suited to their nature ? In 
almost no case does the perfect insect eat that 
food, so that the parent cannot judge from her own 
habits. The Contriver of the mechanism by which 
insects work also directs the instinct by which they 
use their tools. 

It is exceedingly difficult, with our very limited 
knowledge of the springs of action in the inferior 
animals, to determine the motives of their industry — 
that is, whether they see clearly the end and object 
of their arrangements. A human architect, in all his 
plans, has regard, according to the extent of his skill, 
to the combination of beauty and convenience ; and 
in mpst cases he has adaptations peculiar to the cir- 
cumstances connected with the purpose of the struc- 
ture. In the erection of a common dwelling-house, 
for instance, one family requires many sleeping- 
rooms, another few — one wants its drawing-rooms 
in a suite, another detached. The architect knows all 
these wants, and provides for them. But all insects 
build their habitations upon the same general model, 
although they can slightly vary them according to 
circumstances. Thus, according as the uniformity, 
or the occasional adaptation of their work to particu- 
lar situations, has been most regarded by those who 
speculate upon their actions, they have been held to 
be wholly governed by instinct or by intelligence — 
have been called machines or free agents. There are 
difficulties in either conclusion ; and the truth perhaps 
lies between the two opinions. Their actions may 
entirely result from their organization ; they are cer- 
tainly in conformity with it. Those who would deny 
the animal all intelligence, by which we mean a power, 

R 







resulting from selection, of deviating in small matters 
from a precise rule of action, are often materialists, 
who shut their eyes to the creating and preserving 
economy of Providence. But even this belief in the 
infallible results of organization does not necessarily 
imply the disbelief of a presiding Power. “ The 
same wisdom,” says Bonnet, “ which has constructed 
and arranged with so much art the various organs 
of animals, and has made them concur towards 
one determined end, has also provided that the dif- 
ferent operations which are the natural results of the 
economy of the animal should concur towards the 
same end. The creature is directed towards his ob- 
ject by an invisible hand ; he executes with precision, 
and by one effort, those works which we so much 
admire ; he appears to act as if he reasoned, to 
return to his labour at the proper time, to change 
his scheme in case of need. But in all this he only 
obeys the secret influence which drives him on. He 
is but an instrument which cannot judge of each 
action, but is wound up by that adorable Intelli- 
gence, which has traced out for every insect its pro- 
per labours, as he has traced the orbit of each 
planet. When, therefore, I see an insect working at 
the construction of a nest, or a cocoon, I am im- 
pressed with respect, because it seems to me that I 
am at a spectacle where the Supreme Artist is hid 
behind the curtain 

There is a small sort of caterpillar which may be 
found on old walls, feeding upon minute mosses and 
lichens, the proceedings of which are well worthy of 
attention. They are similar, in appearance and size, 
to the caterpillar of the small cabbage-butterfly 
( Pontia rapce ), and are smooth and bluish. The 
material which they use in building their cocoons is 



* Contemplation de la Nature, part xv. chap. 38. 







composed of the leaves and branchlets of green moss, 
which they cut into suitable pieces, detaching at the 
same time along with them a portion of the earth in 
which they grow. They arrange these upon the 
walls of their building with the moss on the outside, 
and the earth on the inside, making a sort of vault 
of the tiny bits of green moss turf, dug from the 
surface of the wall. So neatly, also, are the several 
pieces joined, that the whole might well be supposed 
to be a patch of moss which had grown in form of 
an oval tuft, a little more elevated than the rest 
growing on the wall. When these caterpillars are 
shut up in a box with some moss, without earth, 
they construct with it cells in form of a hollow ball, 
very prettily plaited and interwoven. 




Moss-Cell of Small Caterpillar ( Bryophilaperla ?) 



In May last (1829), we found on the walls of 
Greenwich Park, a great number of caterpillars 
whose manners bore some resemblance to those of 
the grub described by M. Reaumur*. They were 
of middle size, with a dull orange stripe along the 
back ; the head and sides of the body black, and the 
belly greenish. Their abodes were constructed with 
ingenuity and care. A caterpillar of this sort ap- 
pears to choose either a part where the mortar con- 
tains a cavity, or it digs one suited to its design. 
Over the opening of the hollow in the mortar, it 







* J. R. 







builds an arched wall so as to form a chamber consi- 
derably larger than is usual with other architect ca- 
terpillars. It selects grains of mortar, brick, or 
lichen, fixing them, by means of silk, firmly into the 
structure. As some of these vaulted walls were 
from an inch to an inch and a half long, and about a 
third of an inch wide and deep, it may be well 
imagined that it would require no little industry and 
labour to complete the work. Yet it does not de- 
mand more than a few hours for the insect to raise it 
from the foundation. Like all other insect architects, 
this caterpillar uses its own body for a measuring 
rule, and partly for a mould, or rather a block or 
centre to shape the walls by, curving itself round and 
round concentrically with the arch which it is building. 

We afterwards found one of these caterpillars 
which had dug a cell in one of the softest of the 
bricks, covering itself on the outside with an arched 
wall of brick dust, cemented with silk. As this brick 
was of a bright red colour, we were thereby able to 
ascertain that there was not a particle of lichen em- 
ployed in the structure. 

The neatness mentioned by Reaumur, as remark- 
able in his moss-building caterpillars, is equally ob- 
servable in that which we have just described ; for, on 
looking at the surface of the wall, it would be impos- 
sible for a person unacquainted with these structures 
to detect where they were placed, as they are usually, 
on the outside, level with the adjoining brick-work, and 
it is only when they are opened by the entomologist, 
that the little architect is perceived lying snug in his 
chamber. If a portion of the wall be thus broken 
down, the caterpillar loses no time in repairing the 
breach, by piecing in bits of mortar and fragments of 
lichen, till we can scarcely distinguish the new por- 
tion from the old. 





There is a very interesting class of grubs which 
live under water, where they construct for themselves 
moveable tents of various materials as their habits 
direct them, or as the substances they require can be 
conveniently procured. Among the materials used 
by these singular grubs, well known to fishermen by 
the name of caddis-worms , and to naturalists as the 
larvce of the four-winged flies in the order Trichop- 
tera, we may mention sand, stones, shells, wood, and 
leaves, which are skilfully joinedand strongly cemented. 
One of these grubs forms a pretty case of leaves 
glued together longitudinally, but leaving an aper- 
ture sufficiently large for the inhabitant to put out its 
head and shoulders when it wishes to look about for 




Leaf Nest of Caddis-Worm. 

food. Another employs pieces of reed cut into con- 
venient lengths, or of grass, straw, wood, &c., care- 
fully joining and cementing each piece to its fellpw 
as the work proceeds ; and he frequently finishes the 








Reed Nest of Caddis- Worn, 







whole by adding a broad piece longer than the rest 
to shade his door-way over-head, so that he may not 
be seen from above. A more laborious structure is 
reared by the grub of a beautiful caddis-fly ( Phry - 
ganea), which weaves together a group of the leaves 
of aquatic plants into a roundish ball, and in the in- 
terior of this forms a cell for its abode. The fol- 
lowing figure from Roesel will give a more precise 
notion of this structure than a lengthened description. 




Another of these aquatic architects makes choice 
of the tiny shells of young fresh-water mussels and 
snails ( [Planorbis ), to form a moveable grotto, and 
as these little shells are for the most part inhabited, 
he keeps the poor animals close prisoners, and drags 




Shell Nests of Caddis-Worms. 







them without mercy along’ with him. These grotto- 
building’ grubs are by no means uncommon in ponds ; 
and in chalk districts, such as the country about 
Woolwich and Gravesend, they are very abundant. 

One of the most surprising instances of their 
skill occurs in the structures of which small stones 
are the principal material. The problem is to make 
a tube about the width of the hollow of a wheat 
straw or a crow quill, and equally smooth and 
uniform. Now the materials being small stones full 
of angles and irregularities, the difficulty of per- 
forming this problem will appear to be considerable, 
if not insurmountable ; yet the little architects, by 
patiently examining their stones and turning them 
round on every side, never fail to accomplish their 
plans. This, however, is only part of the pro- 








blem, which is complicated with another condition, 
and which we have not found recorded by former 
observers, namely, that the under surface shall be 
flat and smooth, without any projecting angles which 
might impede its progress when dragged along the 
bottom of the rivulet where it resides. The selection 
of the stones, indeed, may be accounted for, from this 
species living in streams where, but for the weight of 
its house, it Avould to a certainty be swept away. For 
this purpose, it is probable that the grub makes 
choice of larger stones than it might otherwise want ; 
and therefore also it is that we frequently find a case 
composed of very small stones and sand, to which 




Sand Nest balanced with a Stone. 







when nearly finished, a large stone is added by way 
of ballast. In other instances, when the materials 
are found to possess too great specific gravity, a bit 
of light wood, or a hollow straw, is added to buoy 
up the case. 




Nest of Caddis-Worm, balanced with Straws. 

It is worthy of remark, that the cement, used 
in all these cases, is superior to pozzolana * in stand- 
ing water, in which it is indissoluble. The grubs 
themselves are also admirably adapted for their 
mode of life, the portion of their bodies which is always 
enclosed in the case, being soft like a meal-worm, or 
garden caterpillar, while the head and shoulders, 
which are for the most part projected beyond the 
door-way in search of food, are firm, hard, and con- 
sequently less liable to injury than the protected por- 
tion, should it chance to be exposed. 

We have repeatedly tried experiments with the in- 
habitants of those aquatic tents, to ascertain their 
mode of building. We have deprived them of their 
little houses, and furnished them with materials for 
constructing new ones, watching their proceedings 
from their laying the first stone or shell of the struc- 
ture. They work at the commencement in a very 
clumsy manner , attaching a great number of chips 
to whatever materials may be within their reach with 
loose threads of silk, and many of these they never 
use at all in their perfect building. They act, indeed, 
much like an unskilful workman trying his hand be- 
fore committing himself upon an intended work of 
difficult execution. Their main intention is, however, 
to have abundance of materials within reach : for 
after their dwelling is fairly begun, they shut them 

* A cement prepared of volcanic earth, or lava. 







selves up in it, and do not again protrude more than 
half of their body to procure materials; and even 
when they have dragged a stone, a shell, or a chip of 
reed within building reach, they have often to reject it 
as unfit*. 

Carpenter-Caterpillars. 

Insects, though sometimes actuated by an instinct 
apparently blind, unintelligent, or unknown to them- 
selves, manifest in other instances a remarkable adap- 
tation of means to ends. We have it in our power to 
exemplify this in a striking manner by the proceed- 
ings of the caterpillar of a goat-moth ( Cossus ligni- 
perda ) which we kept till it underwent its final 
change. 




Caterpillar of Goat-Moth in a JVillow Tree. 



This caterpillar, which abounds in Kent and many 
other parts of the island, feeds on the wood of 
willows, oaks, poplars, and other trees, in which it 
eats extensive galleries ; but it is not contented with 
the protection afforded by these galleries during 

* J. R. 







the colder months of winter, before the arrival of 
which it scoops out a hollow in the tree, if it do not 
find one ready prepared, sufficiently large to contain 
its body in a bent or somewhat coiled up position. 
On sawing off a portion of an old poplar in the 
winter of 1827, we found such a cell with a cater- 
pillar coiled up in it. 




JVinter Nest of the Goat-Caterpillar. 



It had not, however, been contented with the bare 
walls of the retreat which it had hewn out of the tree, 
for it had lined it with a fabric as thick as coarse 
broad-cloth, and equally warm, composed of the rasp- 
ings of the wood scooped out of the cell, united with the 
strong silk which every species of caterpillar can spin. 
In this snug retreat our caterpillar, if it had not been 
disturbed, would have spent the winter without eat- 
ing ; but upon being removed into a warm room and 
placed under a glass along with some piece's of wood, 
which it might eat if so inclined, it was roused for a 
time from its dormant state, and began to move 
about. It was not long, however, in constructing a 
new cell for itself, no less ingenious that the former. 
It either could not gnaw into the fir plank, where it 
was now placed with a glass above it, or it did not 
choose to do so ; for it left it untouched, and made it 
the basis of the edifice it began to construct. It 







formed, in fact, a covering; for itself precisely like the 
one from which we had dislodged it, — composed of 
raspings of wood detached for the purpose from 
what had been given it as food, — the largest piece of 
which was employed as a substantial covering and 
protection for the whole. It remained in this retreat, 
motionless, and without food, till revived by the 
warmth of the ensuing spring, when it gnawed its 
way out, and began to eat voraciously, to make up 
for its long fast. 

These caterpillars are three years in arriving at 
their final change into the winged state ; but as the 
one just mentioned was nearly full grown, it began, 
in the month of May, to prepare a cell, in which it 
might undergo its metamorphosis. Whether it had 
actually improved its skill in architecture by its pre- 
vious experience we will not undertake to say, but its 
second cell was greatly superior to the first. In the 
first there was only one large piece of wood em- 
ployed ; in the second, two pieces were placed in 
such a maimer as to support each other, and beneath 
the angle thus formed, an oblong structure was made, 
composed, as before, of wood-raspings and silk, but 
much stronger in texture than the winter cell. In a 
few weeks (four, if we recollect aright) the moth 
came forth*. 




Nest of Goat-Moth . — Figured from specimen, and raised to show the Pupa. 

* J.R. 



 



A wood-boring caterpillar, of a species of moth 
much rarer than the preceding ( ZEgeria asiliformis, 
Stephens), exhibits great ingenuity in construct- 
ing a cell for its metamorphosis. We observed 
above a dozen of them during this summer (1829) 
in the trunk of a poplar, one side of which had 
been stripped of its bark. It was this portion of 
the trunk which all the caterpillars selected for 
their final retreat, not one having been observed 
where the tree was covered with bark. The inge- 
nuity of the little architect consisted in scooping its 
cell almost to the very surface of the wood, leaving 
only an exterior covering of unbroken wood, as thin 
as writing paper. Previous, therefore, to the chry- 
salis making its way through this feeble barrier, it 
could not have been suspected that an insect was 
lodged under the smooth wood. We observed more 
than one of these in the act of breaking through this 
covering, within which there is besides a round move- 
able lid of a sort of brown wax*. 

Another architect caterpillar, frequently to be met 
with in July on the leaves of the willow and the 
poplar, is, in the fly state, called the Puss-Moth 
(Centra vinula). The caterpillar is produced from 
brown-coloured shining eggs, about the size of a 
pin’s head, which are deposited — one, two, or 
more together — on the upper surface of a leaf. 
In the course of six or eight weeks (during which 
time it casts its skin thrice) it arrives at its full 




Eggs of the Puss- Moth. 

* J. R. 







growth, when it is about as thick, and nearly as 
long, as a man’s thumb, and begins to prepare a 
structure in which the pupa may sleep securely 
during the winter. As we have, oftener than once, 
seen this little architect at work, from the foundation 
till the completion of its edifice, we are thereby ena- 
bled to give the details of the process. 

The puss, it may be remarked, does not depend 
for protection on the hole of a tree, or the shelter of 
an overhanging branch, but upon the solidity and 
strength of the fabric which it rears. The material 
it commonly uses is the bark of the tree upon which 
the cell is constructed ; but when this cannot be pro- 
cured, it is contented to employ whatever analogous 
materials may be within reach. One which we had 
shut up in a box substituted the marble paper 
it was lined with, for bark, which it could not pro- 
cure*. With silk it first wove a thin web round the 

* It is justly remarked by Reaumur, that when caterpillars 
are left at liberty among their native plants, it is only by lucky 
chance they can be observed building their cocoons, because the 
greater number abandon the plants upon which they have been 
feeding, to spin up in places at some distance. In order to see 
their operations they must be kept in confinement, particularly in 
boxes, wdth glazed doors, where they may be always under the eye 
of the naturalist. In such circumstances, however, we may be 
ignorant what building materials we ought to provide them with 
for their structures. A red caterpillar, with a few tufts of hair, 
which Reaumur found in July feeding upon the flower bunches 
of the nettle, and refusing to touch the leaves, began in a few days 
to prepare its cocoon, by gnawing the paper lid of the box in 
which it w : as placed. This, of course, was a material which it 
could not have procured in the fields, but it was the nearest in 
properties that it could procure ; for though it had the leaves and 
stems of nettles, it never used a single fragment of either. When 
Reaumur found that it was likely to gnaw through the paper lid 
of the box, and might effect its escape, he furnished it with bits 
of rumpled paper, fixed to the lid by means of a pin ; and these 
it chopped down into such pieces as it judged convenient for its 
structure, which it took a day to complete. The moth appeared 

S 







edges of the place which it marked out for its edi- 
fice ; then it ran several threads in a sparse manner 
from side to side, and from end to end, but very 
irregularly in point of arrangement : these were in- 
tended for the skeleton or frame-work of the building. 




When this outline was finished, the next step was to 
strengthen each thread of silk, by adding several 
(sometimes six or eight) parallel ones, all of which 
were then glued together into a single thread, by 
the insect running its mandibles, charged with 
gluten, along the line. The meshes, or spaces, 
which were thus widened by the compression of the 
parallel threads, were immediately filled up with 
fresh threads, till at length only very small spaces 
were left. It was in this stage of the operation that 
the paper came into requisition, small portions of it 
being gnawed off the box and glued into the meshes. 
It was not, however, into the meshes only that the 
bits of paper were inserted ; for the whole fabric was 
in the end thickly studded over with them. In about 
half a day from the first thread of the frame-work 
being spun the building was completed. It was at 
first, however, rather soft, and yielded to slight pres- 
sure with the finger ; but as soon as it became 

four weeks after, of a brownish-black colour, mottled with white, 
or rather grey, in the manner of lace. 

Bonnet also mentions more than one instance in which he 
observed caterpillars making use of paper, when they could not 
procure other materials. 







thoroughly dry, it was so hard that it could with 
difficulty be penetrated with the point of a penknife*. 



A question will here suggest itself to the curious 
inquirer, how the moth, which is not, like the cater- 
pillar, furnished with mandibles for gnawing, can find 
its way through so hard a wall. To resolve this 
question, it is asserted by recent naturalists (see Kirby 
and Spence, vol. iii. p. 15), that the moth is furnished 
with a peculiar acid for dissolving itself a passage. We 
have a specimen of the case of a puss-moth, in which, 
notwithstanding its strength, one of the ichneumons 
had contrived to deposit its eggs. In the beginning of 
summer, when we expected the moth to appear, and 
felt anxious to observe the recorded effects of the 
acid, we were astonished to find a large orange 
cuckoo-fly make its escape ; while another, which at- 
tempted to follow, stuck by the way and died. On 
detaching the cell from the box, we found several 
others, which had not been able to get out, and had 
died in their cocoons t. 




Cell built by the Larva of the Puss-Moth. 




Ichneumon ( [Ophion lutcum ) figured from the one mentioned. 






* J. R. 



f J. R. 


 

Among' the carpenter-grubs may be mentioned 
that of the purple capricorn-beetle ( Callidium viola - 
ceurn ), of which the Rev. Mr. Kirby has given an 
interesting account in the fifth volume of the Lin- 
nean Transactions. This insect feeds principally 
on fir timber, which has been felled some time with- 
out having had the bark stripped off ; but it is often 
found on other wood. Though occasionally taken in 
this kingdom, it is supposed not to have been ori- 
ginally a native. The circumstance of this destruc- 
tive little animal attacking only such timber as had 
not been stripped of its bark ought to be attended 
to by all persons who have any concern in this article; 
for the bark is a temptation not only to this, but 
to various other insects ; and much of the injury 
done in timber might be prevented, if the trees were 
all barked as soon as they were felled. The female 
is furnished, at the posterior extremity of her body, 
with a flat retractile tube, which she inserts between 
the bark and the wood, to the depth of about a quar- 
ter of an inch, and there deposits a single egg. By 
stripping off the bark, it is easy to trace the whole 
progress of the grub, from the spot where it is 
hatched, to that where it attains its full size. It first 
proceeds in a serpentine direction, filling the space 
which it leaves with its excrement, resembling saw-dust, 
and so stopping all ingress to enemies from without. 
When it has arrived at its utmost dimensions, it does 
not confine itself to one direction, but works in a kind 
of labyrinth, eating backwards and forwards, which 
gives the wood under the bark a very irregular sur- 
face; by this means its paths are rendered of con- 
siderable width. The bed of its paths exhibits, when 
closely examined, a curious appearance, occasioned 
by the gnawings of its jaws, which excavate an infinity 
of little ramified canals. When the insect is about to 
assume its chrysalis state, it bores down obliquely 







into the solid wood, to the depth sometimes of three 
inches, and seldom if ever less than two, forming 
holes nearly semi-cylindrical, and of exactly the form 
of the grub which inhabits them. At first sight one 
would wonder how so small and seemingly so weak 
an animal could have strength to excavate so deep a 
mine ; but when we examine its jaws our wonder 
ceases. These are large, thick, and solid sections of a 
cone divided longitudinally, which, in the act of 
chewing, apply to each other the whole of their inte- 
rior plane surface, so that they grind the insect’s 
food like a pair of millstones. Some of the grubs are 
hatched in October ; and it is supposed that about 
the beginning of March they assume their chrysalis 
state. At the place in the bark, opposite to the hole 
from whence they descended into the wood, the per- 
fect insects gnaw their way out, which generally takes 
place betwixt the middle of May and the middle of 
June. These insects are supposed to fly only in 
the night, but during the day they may generally be 
found resting on the wood from which they were 
disclosed. The grubs are destitute of feet, pale, fold- 
ed, somewhat hairy, convex above, and divided into 
thirteen segments. Their head is large and convex.* 
It would not be easy to find a more striking ex- 
ample of ingenuity than occurs in a small caterpillar 
which may be found in May, on the oak, and is sup- 
posed, by Kirby and Spence, to be that of th ePyralis 
strigulalis. It is of a whitish yellow colour, tinged 
with a shade of carnation, and studded with tufts of 
red hairs, on each segment, and two brown spots be- 
hind the head. It has fourteen feet, and the upper 
part of its body is much flatter than is common in 
caterpillars. When this ingenious little insect begins 
to form its cell, it selects a smooth young branch 

* Kirby in Linn. Trans, vol. v. p. 246, and Introd. ii. 





of the oak, near an offgoing of the branchlets whose 
angle may afford it some protection. It then measures 
out, with its body for a rule, the space destined for 
its structure, the basement of which is of a triangular 
form, with the apex at the lower end. The building 
itself is composed of small rectangular strap-shaped 
pieces of the outer bark of the branch cut out from 
the immediate -vicinity ; the insect indeed never tra- 
vels farther for materials than the length of its own 
body. Upon the two longest sides of the triangular 
base it builds uniform walls, also of a triangular 
shape, and both gradually diverging from each other 
as they increase in height. These are formed with 
so much mathematical precision, that they fit exactly 
when they are afterwards brought into contact. As 
soon as the little architect has completed these walls, 
which resemble very much the feathers of an arrow, 




Magnified Cells of Pyralis Strigulalis? 

a. The walls before they are joined, b. Walls joined, but not 
closed at top. c. Side view of structure complete. 











it proceeds to draw them together in a manner si- 
milar to that which the leaf-rolling caterpillars employ 
in constructing their abodes, by pulling them with 
silken cords till they bend and converge. Even 
when the two longest sides are thus joined, there is 
an opening left at the upper end, which is united in 
a similar manner. When the whole is finished, it re- 
quires close inspection to distinguish it from the 
branch, being formed of the same materials, and 
having consequently the same colour and gloss. 
Concealment, indeed, may be supposed, with some 
justice, to be the final object of the insect in pro- 
ducing this appearance, the same principle being ex- 
tensively exemplified in numerous other instances. 


 

Many species of caterpillars are not only skilful 
in concealing themselves in their cocoons, but also 
in the concealment of the cocoon itself; so that 
even when that is large, as in the instance of the 
death’s-head hawk-moth ( Acherontia atropos ), it is 
almost impossible to find it. We allude to the 
numerous class of caterpillars which, previous to 
their changing into the pupa state, bury themselves 
in the earth. This circumstance would not be sur- 
prising, were it confined to those which are but too 
well known in gardens, from their feeding upon and 
destroying the roots of lettuce, chicory, and other 
plants, as they pass a considerable portion of their 
lives under ground ; nor is it surprising that those 
which retire under ground during the day, and come 
abroad to feed in the night, should form their cocoons 
where they have been in the habit of concealing 
themselves. But it is very singular and unexpected, 
that caterpillars, which pass the whole of their life on 
plants, and even on trees, should afterwards bury 
themselves in the earth. Yet, the fact is, that per- 
haps a greater number make their cocoons under 
than above ground, particularly those which are not 
clothed with hair. 

Some of those caterpillars, which go into the 
ground previous to their change, make no cocoon at 
all, but are contented with a rude masonry of earth 
as a nest for their pupae : into the details of their 
operations it will not be so necessary for us to 
go, as into those which exhibit more ingenuity 






and care. When one of the latter is dug* up, it 
has the appearance of nothing' more than a small 
clod of earth, of a roundish or oblong shape, but, 
generally, by no means uniform. The interior, how- 
ever, when it is laid open, always exhibits a cavity, 
smooth, polished, and regular, in which the cocoon, or 
the chrysalis lies secure. (Fig. p. 202, b). The polish 
of the interior is precisely such as might be given to soft 
earth by moistening and kneading it with great care. 
But beside this, it is usually lined with a tapestry of 
silk, more or less thick, though this cannot always 
be discovered without the aid of a magnifying glass. 
This species of caterpillars, as soon as they have 
completed their growth, go into the earth, scoop 
out, as the cossus does in wood, a hollow cell of an 
oblong form, and-line it with pellets of earth, from 
the size of a grain of sand to that of a pea — united, 
by silk or gluten, into a fabric more or less compact, 
according to the species, but all of them fitted for 
protecting the inhabitant, during its winter sleep, 
against cold and moisture. 




Outside View of Nests of Earth-mason Caterpillars. 



One of the examples of this occurs in the ghost- 
moth ( Hepialus humuh ), which, before it retires into 
the earth, feeds upon the roots of the hop or the 
burdock. Like other insects which construct cells 
under ground, it lines the cemented earthen walls 
of its cell with a smooth tapestry of silk, as closely 
woven as the web of the house-spider. 

Inaccurate observers have inferred that these 







Nests, fyc.,of an Earth-mason Caterpillar. 

earthen structures were formed by a very rude and 
unskilful process — the caterpillar, according to them, 
doing nothing more than roll itself round, while the 
mould adhered to the gluey, perspiration with which 
they describe its body to be covered. This is a 
process as far from the truth, as Aristotle’s account 
of the spider spinning its web from wool taken from 
its body. Did the caterpillar do nothing more than 
roll itself in the earth, the cavity would be a long 
tube fitted exactly to its body {fig. c ) : it is essentially 
different. 

It does not indeed require very minute observation 
to perceive, that every grain of earth in the structure 
is united to the contiguous grains by threads of silk ; 
and that consequently, instead of the whole having been 
done at once, it must have required very considerable 








time and labour. This construction is rendered 
more obvious by throwing one of these earthen cases 
into water, which dissolves the earth, but does not 
act on the silk which binds it together. To under- 
stand how this is performed, it may not be unin- 
teresting to follow the little mason from the begin- 
ning of his task. 

When one of those burrowing caterpillars has 
done feeding, it enters the earth to the depth of 
several inches, till it finds mould fit for its pur- 
pose. Having nowhere to throw the earth which 
it may dig out, the only means in its power of 
forming a cavity is to press it with its body ; and, 
by turning round and round for this purpose, an 
oblong hollow is soon made. But were it left in this 
state, as Reaumur well remarks, though the vault 
might endure the requisite time by the viscosity of 
the earth alone, were no change to take place in its 
humidity, yet, as a great number are wanted to 
hold out for six, eight, and ten months, they require 
to be substantially built; a mere lining of silk, there- 
fore, would not be sufficient, and it becomes necessary 
to have the walls bound with silk to some thickness. 

When a caterpillar cannot find earth sufficiently 
moist to bear kneading into the requisite consistence, 
it has the means of moistening it with a fluid which 
it ejects for the purpose ; and as soon as it has thus 
prepared a small pellet of earth, it fits it into the wall 
of the vault, and secures it with silk. As the little 
mason, however, always works on the inside of the 
building, it does not, at first view, appear in what 
manner it can procure materials for making one or 
two additional walls on the inside of the one first built. 
As the process takes place under ground, it is not 
easy to discover the particulars, for the caterpillars 
will not work in glazed boxes. The difficulty was 
completely overcome by M. Reaumur, in the instance 







of the caterpillar of the water-betony moth ( Cu - 
c.uliia scrophularitz, Schrauk), which he permitted 
to construct the greater part of its underground 
building, and then dug it up and broke a portion off 
from the end, leaving about a third part of the whole 
to be rebuilt. Those who are unacquainted with the 
instincts of insects might have supposed that, being 
disturbed by the demolition of its walls, it would 
have left off work ; but the stimulus of providing for 
the great change is so powerful, that scarcely any 
disturbance will interrupt a caterpillar in this species 
of labour. 

The little builder accordingly was not long in re- 
commencing its task for the purpose of repairing the 
disorder, which it accomplished in about four hours. 
At first it protruded its body almost entirely beyond 
the breach which had been made, to reconnoitre the 
exterior for building materials. Earth was put with- 
in its reach, of the same kind as it had previously 
used, and it was not long in selecting a grain adapted 
to its purpose, which it fitted into the wall and secured 
with silk. It first enlarged the outside of the wall 
by the larger and coarser grains, and then selected 
finer- for the interior. But before it closed the aper- 
ture, it collected a quantity of earth on the inside, 
wove a pretty thick network tapestry of silk over the 
part which remained open, and into the meshes of 
this, by pushing and pressing, it thrust grains of 
earth, securing them with silk till the whole was ren- 
dered opaque ; and the further operations of the in- 
sect could no longer be watched, except that it was 
observed to keep in motion, finishing, no doubt, the 
silken tapestry of the interior of its little chamber. 
When it was completed, M. Reaumur ascertained 
that the portion of the structure which had been 
built under his eye was equally thick and compact 
with the other, which had been done under ground. 








Earth-Mason Caterpillars' Nests , with the perfect Moth , fyc. 

The grubs of several of the numerous species of 
may-fly ( Ephemera ) excavate burrows for themselves 
in soft earth, on the banks of rivers and canals, under 

 



the level of the water, an operation well described by 
Scopoli, Swammerdam, and Reaumur. The excava- 
tions are always proportioned to the size of the in- 
habitant ; and consequently, when it is young and 
small, the hole is proportionally small, though, with 
respect to extent, it is always at least double the 
length of its body. The hole, being under the level 
of the river, is always filled with water, so that the 
grub swims in its native element, and while it is se- 
cure from being preyed upon by fishes, it has its own 
food within easy reach. It feeds, in fact, if we may 
judge from its egesta, upon the slime or moistened 
clay with which its hole is lined. 




Nests of the Grubs of Ephemera. 



A. The grub. B. Perforations in a river bank. C. One laid 
open to show the parallel structure. 

In the bank of the stream at Lee in Kent, we had 
occasion to take up an old willow stump, which, pre- 
vious to its being driven into the bank, had been per- 
forated in numerous places by the caterpillar of the 







goat-moth (Cossus ligniperda). From having- been 
driven amongst the moist clay, these perforations be- 
came filled with it, and the grubs of the ephemerae 
found them very suitable for their habitation ; for the 
wood supplied a more secure protection than if their 
galleries had been excavated in the clay. In these 
holes of the wood we found several empty, and some 
in which were full grown grubs*. 




IVnsts of Ephemera in holes of Cossus. 

The architecture of the grub of a pretty genus of 
beetles, known to entomologists by the name of Ci- 
cindela , is peculiarly interesting. It was first made 
known by the eminent French naturalists, Geoffroy, 
Desmarest, and Latreille. This grub, which may 
be met with during spring, and also in summer 
and autumn, in sandy places, is long, cylindric, soft, 
whitish, and furnished with six brown scaly feet. The 
head is of a square form, with six or eight eyes, 
and very large in proportion to the body. They have 
strong jaws, and on the eighth joint of the body there 
are two fleshy tubercles, thickly clothed with reddish 
hairs, and armed with a recurved horny spine, the 
whole giving to the grub the form of the letter Z. 

With their jaws and feet they dig into the earth to 
the depth of eighteen inches, forming a cylindrical 
cavity of greater diameter than their body, and fur- 
nished with a perpendicular entrance. In construct- 

* J. R. 







ing this, the grub first clears away the particles of' 
earth and sand by placing them on its broad trape- 
zoidal head, and carrying the load in this manner be- 
yond the area of the excavation. When it gets deeper 
down, it climbs gradually up to the surface with simi- 
lar loads by means of the tubercles on its back, above 
described. This process is a work of considerable 
time and difficulty, and in carrying its loads, the in- 
sect has often to rest by the way to recover strength 
for a renewed exertion. Not unfrequently, it finds 
the soil so ill adapted to its operations, that it aban- 
dons the task altogether, and begins anew in another 
situation. When it has succeeded in forming a com- 
plete den, it fixes itself at the entrance by the hooks 
of its tubercles, which are admirably adapted for the 
purpose, forming a fulcrum or support, while the 
broad plate on the top of the head exactly fits the 
aperture of the excavation, and is on a level with the 
soil. In this position, the grub remains immovable, 
with jaws expanded, and ready to seize and devour 
every insect which may wander within its reach, par- 
ticularly the smaller beetles ; and its voracity is so 
great, that it does not spare even its own species. It 
precipitates its prey into the excavation, and in case 
of danger, it retires to the bottom of its den, a cir- 
cumstance which renders it not a little difficult to 
discover the grub. The method adopted by the French 
naturalists was to introduce a straw or pliant twig 
into the hole, while they dug away, by degrees and 
with great care, the earth around it, and usually found 
the grub at the bottom of the cell, resting in a zig- 
zag position like one of the caterpillars of the geo- 
metric moths. 

When it is about to undergo its transformation 
into a pupa, it carefully closes the mouth of the den, 
and retires to the bottom in security. 

It does not appear that the grub of the genus 







Cicindela uses the excavation just described for the 
purpose of a trap or pitfall, any further than that it 
can more effectually secure its prey by tumbling them 
down into it ; but there are other species of grubs 
which construct pitfalls for the express purpose of 
traps. Among these is the larva of a fly ( Rhagio 
vermileo ), not unlike the common flesh maggot. 
The den which it constructs is in the form of a 
funnel, the sides of which are composed of sand or 
loose earth. It forms this pitfall of considerable 
depth, by throwing out the earth obliquely on all 
sides ; and when its trap is finished, it stretches it- 
self along the bottom, remaining stiff and motionless, 
like a piece of wood. The last segment of the body 
is bent at an angle with the rest, so as to form a 
strong point of support in the struggles which it must 
often have to encounter with vigorous prey. The 
instant that an insect tumbles into the pitfall, the 
grub pounces upon it, writhes itself round it like a 
serpent, transfixes it with its jaws, and sucks its 
juices at its ease. Should the prey by any chance 
escape, the grub hurls after it jets of sand and earth, 
with astonishing rapidity and force, and not unfre- 
quently succeeds in again precipitating it to the 
bottom of its trap. 

The Ant-Lion. 

The observations of the continental naturalists 
have made known to us a pitfall constructed by an 
insect, the details of whose operations are exceed- 
ingly curious — we refer to the grub of the ant-lion 
(Myrmeleon formicarius), which, though marked by 
Dr. Turton and Mr. Stewart as British, has not (at 
least of late years) been found in this country. As 
it is not, however, uncommon in France and Swit- 

t 3 







zerland, it is probable it may yet be discovered in 
some spot hitherto unexplored, and if so, it will well 
reward the research of the curious. 

The ant-lion grub being of a grey colour, and hav- 
ing its body composed of rings, is not unlike a wood- 
louse ( Oniscus ), though it is larger, more triangular, 
has only six legs, and most formidable jaws, in form 
of a reaping-hook, or a pair of calliper compases. 
These jaws, however, are not for masticating, but 
are perforated and tubular, for the purpose of suck- 
ing the juices of ants upon which it feeds. Vallisnieri 
was, therefore, mistaken, as Reaumur well remarks, 
when he supposed that he had discovered its mouth. 
Its habits require that it should w alk backwards, and 
this is the only species of locomotion which it can 
perform. Even this sort of motion it executes very 
slowly ; and were it not for the ingenuity of its 
stratagems, it would fare but sparingly, since its 
chief food consists of ants, whose activity and swift- 
ness of foot would otherwise render it impossible 
for it to make a single capture. Nature, however, 
in this, as in nearly every other case, has given a 
compensating power to the individual animal, to 
balance its privations. The ant-lion is slow — but it 
is extremely sagacious ; — it cannot follow its prey, 
but it can entrap it. 

The snare which the grub of the ant-lion employs 
consists of a funnel-shaped excavation formed in 
loose sand, at the bottom of which it lies in wait for 
the ants that chance to stumble over the margin, and 
cannot, from the looseness of the walls, gain a suffi- 
cient footing to effect their escape. When the pit- 
fall is intended to be small, it only thrusts its body 
backwards into the sand as far as it can, throwing 
out at intervals the particles which fall in upon it, 
till it is rendered of the requisite depth. 

By shutting up one of these grubs in a box with 








Grub of the Ant-Lion magnified , with one perfect Trap, 
and another begun. 

loose sand, it has been repeatedly observed con- 
structing its trap of various dimensions, from one to 
three inches in diameter, according to circumstances. 
When it intends to make one of considerable diame- 
ter, it proceeds as methodically as the most skil- 
ful architect or engineer amongst ourselves. It 
first examines the nature of the soil, whether it be 
sufficiently dry and fine for its purpose, and if 
so, it begins by tracing out a circle, where the 
mouth of its funnel-trap is intended to be. Having 
thus marked the limits of its pit, it proceeds to 
scoop out the interior. Getting within the circle, 
and using one of its legs as a shovel, it places there- 
with a load of sand on the flat part of its head, and 
it throws the whole with a jerk some inches beyond 
the circle. It is worthy of remark that it only uses 



 



one leg in this operation — the one, namely, which is 
nearest the centre of the circle. Were it to employ 
the others in digging away the sand, it would en- 
croach upon the regularity of its plan. Working 
with great industry and adroitness in the manner 
we have just described, it quickly makes the round of 
its circle, and as it works backwards it soon arrives 
at the point where it had commenced. Instead, 
however, of proceeding from this point in the same 
direction as before, it wheels about and works a 
round in the contrary direction, and in this way it 
avoids throwing all the fatigue of the labour on one 
leg, alternating them every round of the- circle. 




Ant-Lion's Pitfalls, in an e.rperimenting-box. 

Were there nothing to scoop out but sand or loose 
earth, the little engineer would have only to repeat 
the operations we have described, till it had completed 
the whole. But it frequently happens in the course 
of its labours, sometimes even when they are near a 
close, that it will meet with a stone of some size which 
would, if suffered to remain, injure materially the 
perfection of its trap. But such obstacles as this do 
not prevent the insect from proceeding : on the con- 
trary, it redoubles its assiduity to remove the ob- 
struction, as M. Bonnet repeatedly witnessed. If the 
stone be small, it can manage to jerk it out in the 
same manner as the sand ; but when it is two or 







three times larger and heavier than its own body, it 
must have recourse to other means of removal. The 
larger stones it usually leaves till the last, and when 
it has removed all the sand which it intends, it then 
proceeds to try what it can do with the less manage- 
able obstacles. For this purpose, it crawls backwards 
to the place where a stone may be, and thrusting its 
tail under it, is at great pains to get it properly ba- 
lanced on its back, by an alternate motion of the 
rings composing its body. When it has succeeded 
in adjusting the stone, it crawls up the side of the pit 
with great care and deposits its burden on the out- 
side of the circle. Should the stone happen to be 
round, the balance can be kept only with the greatest 
difficulty, as it has to travel with its load upon a 
slope of loose sand which is ready to give way at 
every step ; and often when the insect has carried it to 
the very brink it rolls off its back and tumbles down 
to the bottom of the pit. This accident, so far from 
discouraging the ant-lion, only stimulates it to more 
persevering efforts. Bonnet observed it renew these 
attempts to dislodge a stone, five or six times. It 
is only when it finds it utterly impossible to suc- 
ceed, that it abandons the design and commences 
another pit in a fresh situation. When it succeeds in 
getting a stone beyond the line of its circle, it is not 
contented with letting it rest there ; but to prevent it 
from again rolling in, it goes on to push it to a con- 
siderable distance. 

The pitfall, when finished, is usually about three 
inches in diameter at the top, about two inches deep, 
and gradually contracting into a point in the manner 
of a cone or funnel. In the bottom of this pit the 
ant-lion stations itself to watch for its prey. Should an 
ant or any other insect wander within the verge of the 
funnel, it can scarcely fail to dislodge and roll down 
some particles of sand, which will give notice to the 







ant-lion below to be on the alert. In order to secure 
the prey, Reaumur, Bonnet, and others have observed 
the ingenious insect throw up showers of sand by 
jerking it from his head in quick succession, till the 
luckless ant is precipitated within reach of the jaws 
of its concealed enemy. It feeds only on the blood 
or juice of insects ; and as soon as it has extracted 
these, it tosses the dry carcase out of its den. Its 
next care is to mount the sides of the pitfall arid re- 
pair any damage it may have suffered ; and when this 
is accomplished, it again buries itself among the sand 
at the bottom, leaving nothing but its jaws above the 
surface, ready to seize the next victim. 

When it is about to change into a pupa, it pro- 
ceeds in nearly the same manner as the caterpillar of 
the water-betony moth ( Cucullia scrophularice). It 
first builds a case of sand, the particles of which 
are secured by threads of silk, and then tapestries the 
whole with a silken web. Within this it undergoes 
its transformation into a pupa, and in due time, it 
emerges in form of a four-winged fly, closely resem- 
bling the dragon-flies ( Libellulce ), vulgarly and erro- 
neously called horse-stingers. 

The instance of the ant-lion naturally leads us to 
consider the design of the Author of Nature in so 
nicely adjusting, in all animals, the means of de- 
struction and of escape. As the larger quadrupeds 
of prey are provided with a most ingenious machi- 
nery for preying on the weaker, so are these furnished 
with the most admirable powers of evading their 
destroyers. In the economy of insects, we constantly 
observe, that the means of defence, not only of the 
individual creatures, but of their larvae and pupae, 
against the attacks of other insects, and of birds, is 
proportioned, in the ingenuity of their arrangements, 
to the weakness of the insect employing them. Those 
species which multiply the quickest have the greatest 







number of enemies. Bradley, an English naturalist, 
has calculated that two sparrows carry, in the course 
of a week, above three thousand caterpillars to the 
young in their nests. But though this is, probably, 
much beyond the truth, it is certain that there is a 
great and constant destruction of individuals going 
forward ; and yet the species is never destroyed. In 
this way a balance is kept up, by which one portion 
of animated nature cannot usurp the means of life 
and enjoyment which the world offers to another 
portion. In all matters relating to reproduction, 
Nature is prodigal in her arrangements. Insects 
have more stages to pass through before they 
attain their perfect growth than other creatures. 
The continuation of the species is, therefore, in 
many cases, provided for by a much larger number 
of eggs being deposited than ever become fertile. 
How many larvae are produced, in comparison 
with the number which pass into the pupa state ; 
and how many pupae perish before they become 
perfect insects ! Every garden is covered with cater- 
pillars ; and yet how few moths and butterflies, com- 
paratively, are seen, even in the most sunny season ! 
Insects which lay few eggs are, commonly, most 
remarkable in their contrivances for their preserva- 
tion. The dangers to which insect life is exposed 
are manifold ; and therefore are the contrivances for 
its preservation of the most perfect kind, and inva- 
riably adapted to the peculiar habits of each tribe. 
The same wisdom determines the food of every spe- 
cies of insect ; and thus some are found to delight in 
the rose-tree, and some in the oak. Had it been 
otherwise, the balance of vegetable life would not 
have been preserved. It is for this reason that the 
contrivances which an insect employs for obtaining 
its food are curious, in proportion to the natural diffi- 
culties of its structure. The ant-lion is carnivorous, 





but he has not the quickness of the spider, nor can 
he spread a net over a large surface, and issue from 
his citadel to seize a victim which he has caught in 
his outworks. He is therefore taught to dig a trap, 
where he sits, like the unwieldy giants of fable, wait- 
ing for some feeble one to cross his path. How 
laborious and patient are his operations — how un- 
certain the chances of success ! Yet he never shrinks 
from them, because his instinct tells him that by 
these contrivances alone can he preserve his own ex- 
istence, and continue that of his species. 





There are at least five different species of moths 
similar in manners and economy, the caterpillars of 
which feed upon animal substances, such as furs, 
woollen cloths, silk, leather, and, what to the natu- 
ralist is no less vexing-, upon the specimens of insects 
and other animals preserved in his cabinet. The 
moths in question are of the family named Tinea by 
Entomologists, such as the tapestry moth ( Tinea ta 
petzella), the fur moth ( Tinea pellionella'), the wool 
moth ( Tinea vestianella ), the cabinet moth ( Tinea 
Destructor , Stephens), &c. 

The moths themselves are, in the winged state, 
small, and well fitted for making their way through 
the most minute hole or chink, so that it is scarcely 
possible to exclude them by the closeness of a ward- 
robe or a cabinet*. If they cannot effect an entrance 
when a drawer is out, or a door open, they will con- 
trive to glide through the key-hole ; and if they once 
get in, it is no easy matter to dislodge or destroy 
them, for they are exceedingly agile, and escape out 
of sight in a moment. Moufet is of opinion that the 
ancients possessed an effectual method of preserving 
stuffs from the moth, because the robes of Servius 
Tullius were preserved up to the death of Sejanus, 
a period of more than five hundred years. On turning 
to Pliny to learn this secret, we find him relating that 
stuff laid upon a coffin will be ever after safe from 

* See fig. d. } p, 221. 





moths ; in the same way as a person once stung by a 
scorpion will never afterwards be stung by a bee, or a 
wasp, or a hornet ! Rhasis again says, that cantha- 
rides suspended in a house drive away moths ; and, 
he adds, that they will not touch anything wrapped in 
a lion’s skin ! — the poor little insects, says Reaumur 
sarcastically, being probably in bodily fear of so ter- 
rible an animal*. Such are the stories which fill the 
imagination even of philosophers, till real science en- 
tirely expels them. 

The effluvium of camphor or turpentine may some- 
times kill them, when in the winged state, but this 
will have no effect upon their eggs, and seldom upon 
the caterpillars ; for they wrap themselves up too 
closely to be easily reached by any agent except heat. 
This, when it can be conveniently applied, will be 
certain either to dislodge or to kill them. When the 
effluvium of turpentine, however, reaches the cater- 
pillar, Bonnet says it falls into convulsions, becomes 
covered with livid blotches, and diest. 

The mother insect takes care to deposit her eggs 
on or near such substances as she instinctively fore- 
knows will be best adapted for the food of the young, 
taking care to distribute them so that there may be 
a plentiful supply and enough of room for each. We 
have found, for example, some of those caterpillars 
feeding upon the shreds of cloth used in training 
wall-fruit trees ; but we never saw more than two 
caterpillars on one shred. This scattering of the 
eggs in many places, renders the effects of the cater- 
pillars more injurious, from their attacking many 
parts of a garment or a piece of stuff at the same 
timej. 

When one of the caterpillars of this family issues 

* Reaumur, Mem. Hist. Insectes, iii. 70. 
f Contemplation do la Nature, part xii. chap, x. note. 







from the egg, its first care is to provide itself with a 
domicile, which indeed seems no less indispensable 
to it than food ; for, like all caterpillars that feed 
under cover, it will not eat while it remains unpro- 
tected. Its mode of building is very similar to that 
which is employed by other caterpillars that make 
use of extraneous materials. The foundation or 
frame-work is made of silk secreted by itself, and 
into this it interweaves portions of the material 
upon which it feeds. It is said by Bingley, that 
“ after having spun a fine coating of silk immediately 
around its body , it cuts the filaments of the wool or 
fur close by the thread of the cloth, or by the skin, 
with its teeth, which act in the manner of scissors, 
into convenient lengths, and applies the bits, one by 
one, with great dexterity, to the outside of its silken 
case*.” This statement, however, is erroneous, 
and inconsistent with the proceedings not only of 
the clothes moth, but of every caterpillar that con- 
structs a covering. None of these build from within 
outwards, but uniformly commence with the exterior 
wall, and finish by lining the interior with the finest 
materials. Reaumur, however, found that the newly- 
hatched caterpillars lived at first in a case of silk. 

We have repeatedly witnessed the proceedings of 
these insects from the very foundation of their struc- 
tures ; and, at the moment of writing this, we turned 
out one from the carcase of an “ old lady moth” 
(Mormo maura, Ochsenheim.), in our cabinet, and 
placed it on a desk covered with green cloth, where 
it might find materials for constructing another 
dwelling. It wandered about for half a day before 
it began its operations ; but it did not, as is asserted 
by Bonnet, and Kirby and Spence, “ in moving from 
place to place, seem to be as much incommoded by 

* Animal Biography, vol. iii. p. 330, 3d ed. 





the long' hairs which surrounded it, as we are by 
walking amongst high grass/’ nor “ accordingly, 
marching scythe in hand,” did it, “ with its teeth, cut 
out a smooth road*.” On the contrary, it did not 
cut a single hair, till it selected one for the founda- 
tion of its intended structure. This it cut very near 
the cloth, in order, we suppose, to have it as long as 
possible ; and placed it on a line with its body. It 
then immediately cut another, and placing it parallel 
to the first, bound both together with a few threads of 
its own silk. The same process was repeated with 
other hairs, till the little creature had made a fabric of 
some thickness, and this it went on to extend till it 
was large enough to cover its body ; which (as is 
usual with caterpillars) it employed as a model and 
measure for regulating its operations. We remarked 
that it made choice of longer hairs for the outside 
than for the parts of the interior, which it thought 
necessary to strengthen by fresh additions ; but the 
chamber was ultimately finished by a fine and closely- 
woven tapestry of silk. We could see the progress of 
its work, by looking into the opening at either of the 
ends ; for at this stage of the structure the walls are 
quite opaque, and the insect concealed. It may be 
thus observed to turn round, by doubling itself and 
bringing its head where the tail had just been ; of 
course, the interior is left wide enough for this pur- 
pose, and the centre, indeed, where it turns, is always 
wider than the extremitiesf. 

When the caterpillar increases in length, it takes 
care to add to the length of its house, by working-in 
fresh hairs at either end ; and if it be shifted to stuffs 
of different colours, it may be made to construct a 
party-coloured tissue, like a Scotch plaid. Reaumur 
cut off with scissors a portion at each end, to compel 

* Bonnet, xi. p. 204, Kirby and Spence, Intro, i. 4G4. 5th ed 

f J.R. 







the insect to make up the deficiency. But the cater- 
pillar increases in thickness as well as in length, so 
that its first house becoming too narrow, it must 
either enlarge it, or build a new one. It prefers the for- 
mer as less troublesome, and accomplishes its purpose 
“ as dexterously,” says Bonnet, “ as any tailor, and 
sets to work precisely as we should do, slitting the 
case on the two opposite sides, and then adroitly in- 
serting between them two pieces of the requisite size. 




Cases, fyc. of the Clothes-Moth (Tinea pellionella) — a Caterpillar 
feeding- in a case, which has been lengthened by ovals of different 
colours, b Case cut at the ends for experiment, c Case cut open, 
by the insect, for enlarging it. d, e The clothes-moths in their 
perfect state, when, as they cease to eat, they do no further injury. 

It does not, however, cut open the case from one end 
to the other at once ; the sides would separate too 
far asunder, and the insect be left naked. It therefore 
first cuts each side about half way down, beginning 
sometimes at the centre and sometimes at the end, 
(Fig. c.) and then, after having filled up the fissure, 
proceeds to cut the remaining half; so that, in fact, 
four enlargements are made, and four separate pieces 
inserted. The colour of the case is always the same 
as that of the stuff from which it is taken. Thus, if 








its original colour be blue, and the insect previously 
to enlarging it be put upon red cloth, the circles at 
the end, and two stripes down the middle, will be 
red' ; \” Re'aumur found that they cut these enlarge- 
ments in no precise order, but sometimes continuously, 
and sometimes opposite each other, indifferently. 

The same naturalist says he never knew one leave 
its old dwelling in order to build a new, though, when 
once ejected by force from its house, it would never 
enter it again, as some other species of caterpillars 
will do, but always preferred building another. We, 
on the contrary, have more than once seen them leave 
an old habitation. The very caterpillar, indeed, w r hose 
history we have above given, first took up its abode 
in a specimen of the ghost-moth ( Hepialus humuli ), 
where finding few suitable materials for building, it 
had recourse to the cork of the drawer, with the 
chips of which it made a structure almost as warm 
as it would have done from wool. Whether it took 
offence at our disturbing it one day, or whether it 
did not find sufficient food in the body of the ghost- 
moth, we know not ; but it left its cork house, and 
travelled about eighteen inches, selected “ the old 
lady,” one of the largest insects in the drawer, and 
built a new apartment composed partly of cork as 
before, and partly of bits dipt out of the moth’s 
wings f- 

We have seen these caterpillars form their habita- 
tions of every sort of insect, from a butterfly to a 
beetle; and the soft feathery wings of moths answer 
their purpose very well : but when they fall in with 
such hard materials as the musk beetle ( Cerambyx 
moschatus ) or the large scolopendra of the West 
Indies, they find some difficulty in the building. 

When the structure is finished, the insect deems 



* Bonnet, vol. ix. p. 203. 



f J.R. 







itself secure to feed on the materials of the cloth or 
other animal matter within its reach, provided it 
is dry and free from fat or grease, which Reaumur 
found it would not touch. For building, it always 
selects the straightest and loosest pieces of wool, but 
for food it prefers the shortest and most Compact ; 
and to procure these it eats into the body of the stuff, 
rejecting the pile or nap, which it necessarily cuts 
across at the origin, and permits to fall, leaving it 
threadbare, as if it had been much worn. It must 
have been this circumstance which induced Bonnet 
to fancy (as we have already mentioned) that it cut 
the hairs to make itself a smooth comfortable path to 
walk upon. It would be equally correct to say that 
an ox or a sheep dislikes walking amongst long 
grass, and therefore eats it down in order to clear the 
way. 

Tent-making Caterpillars. 

The caterpillars of a family of small moths ( Tinei - 
clce), which feed on the leaves of various trees, such as 
the hawthorn, the elm, the oak, and most fruit-trees, 
particularly the pear, form habitations which are 
exceedingly ingenious and elegant. They are so 
very minute that they require close inspection to 
discover them ; and to the cursory observer, unac- 
quainted with their habits, they will appear more like 
the withered leaf scales of the tree, thrown olf when 
the buds expand, than artificial structures made by 
insects. It is only, indeed, by seeing them move 
about upon the leaves, that we discover they are in- 
habited by a living tenant, who carries them as the 
snail does its shell. 

These tents are from a quarter of an inch to an 
inch in length, and usually about the breadth of an 
oat-straw. That they are of the colour of a withered 



 



leaf is not surprising ; for they are actually composed 
of a piece of leaf ; not, however, cut out from the 
whole thickness, but artfully separated from the 
upper layer, as a person might separate one of the 
leaves of paper from a sheet of pasteboard. 




A caterpillar’s tent upon a leaf of the elm. a, a the part of the 
leaf from which the tent has been cut out. b, the tent itself. 

The tents of this class of caterpillars, which are 
found on the elm, the alder, and other trees with ser- 
rated leaves, are much in the shape of a minute 
gold-fish. They are convex on the back, where the 
indentations of the leaf out of which they have 
been cut add to the resemblance, by appearing like 
the dorsal fins of the fish. By depriving one of those 
caterpillars common on the hawthorn of its tent, 
for the sake of experiment, we put it under the ne- 
cessity of making another ; for, as Pliny remarks of 
the clothes-moth, they will rather die of hunger than 
feed unprotected. When we placed it on a fresh 
hawthorn leaf, it repeatedly examined every part of 
it, as if seeking for its lost tent, though, when this 
was put in its way, it would not again enter it ; but, 
after some delay, commenced a new one*. 

For this purpose, it began to eat through one of 
the two outer membranes which compose the leaf 
and enclose the pulp ( parenchyma ), some of which, 
also, it devoured, and then thrust the hinder part 







of its body into the perforation. The cavity, how- 
ever, which it had formed, being yet too small for 
its reception, it immediately resumed the task of 
making it larger. By continuing to gnaw into the 
pulp, between the membranes of the leaf (for it took 
the greatest care not to puncture or injure the mem- 
branes themselves), it soon succeeded in mining out 
a gallery rather larger than was sufficient to contain 
its body. We perceived that it did not throw out as 
rubbish the pulp it dug into, but devoured it as food, 
— a circumstance not the least remarkable in its pro- 
ceedings. 

As the two membranes of leaf thus deprived of the 
enclosed pulp appeared white and transparent, every 
movement of the insect within could be distinctly 
seen ; and it was not a little interesting to watch its 
ingenious operations while it was making its tent from 
the membranes prepared as we have just described. 
These, as Reaumur has remarked, are in fact to the 
insect like a piece of cloth in the hands of a tailor ; 
and no tailor could cut out a shape with more neat- 
ness and dexterity than this little workman does. As 
the caterpillar is furnished in its mandibles with an 
excellent pair of scissors, this may not appear to be 
a difficult task ; yet, when we examine the matter 
more minutely, we find that the peculiar shape of the 
two extremities requires different curvatures, and this, 
of course, renders the operation no less complex, as 
Reaumur subjoins, than the shaping of the pieces of 
cloth for a coat*. The insect, in fact, shapes the mem- 
branes slightly convex on one side and concave on the 
other, and at one end twice as large as at the other. 
In the instance which we observed, beo'inninn: at the 
larger end, it bent them gently on each side by press- 
ing them with its body thrown into a curve. We 
have not said it cuts , but shapes its materials ; for it 
must be obvious that if the insect had cut both the 
* Mem. Hist. Insect, iii. p. 106. 






membranes at this stage of its operations, the pieces 
would have fallen and carried it along with them. 

To obviate such an accident, it proceeded to join 
the two edges, and secure them firmly with silk, 
before it made a single incision to detach them. 
When it had in this manner joined the two edges 
along one of the sides, it inserted its head on the 
outside of the joining, first at one end and then at the 
other, gnawing the fibres till that whole side was 
separated. It proceeded in the same manner with 
the other side, joining the edges before it cut them; 
and when it arrived at the last fibre, the only remain- 
ing support of its now finished tent, it took the pre- 
caution, before snipping it, to moor the whole to the 
uncut part of the leaf by a cable of its own silk. 
Consequently, when it does cut the last nervure, it is 
secure from falling, and can then travel along the leaf, 
carrying its tent on its back, as a snail does its shell*. 




a The caterpillar occupying the space it has eaten between the 
cuticle of the leaf, b A portion of the upper cuticle, cut out for 
the formation of the tent, e The tent nearly completed, d The 
perfect tent, with the caterpillar protruding its head. 



We have just discovered (Nov. 4th, 1S29), upon 
the nettle, a tent of a very singular appearance, in 
consequence of the materials of which it is made. 
The caterpillar seems, indeed, to have proceeded ex- 

* J. R. 







actly in the same manner as those which we have 
described, mining- first between the two membranes 
of the leaf, and then uniting these and cutting out 
his tent. But the tent itself looks singular from being 
all over studded with the stinging bristles of the 
nettle, and forming- a no less formidable coat of mail 
to the little inhabitant, than the spiny hide of the 
hedgehog. In feeding, it does not seem to have 
mined into the leaf, but to have eaten the whole of 
the lower membrane, along with the entire pulp, 
leaving nothing but the upper membrane untouched*. 

Tents of Stone-mason Caterpillars. 

The caterpillar of a small moth (Tinea) which feeds 
upon the lichens growing on walls, builds for itself a 
moveable tent of a very singular kind. M. de la Yoye 
was the first who described these insects ; but though 
they are frequently overlooked, from being very small, 
they are by no means uncommon on old walls. 
Reaumur observed them regularly for twenty years 
together, on the terrace-wall of the Tuileries at Paris ; 
and they may be found in abundance in similar situ- 
ations in this country. This accurate observer refuted 
by experiment the notion of M. de la Voye, that the 
caterpillars fed upon the stones of the wall ; but he 
satisfied himself that they detached particles of the 
stone for the purpose of building their tents or sheaths 
( fourreaux ), as he calls their dwellings. In order 
to watch their mode of building, Reaumur gently 
ejected half a dozen of them from their homes, and 
observed them detach grain after grain from a piece 
of stone, binding each into the wall of their building 
with silk, till the cell acquired the requisite magnitude, 
the whole operation taking about twenty-four hours 
of continued labour. M. de la Voye mentions small 



* J. R. 







granular bodies of a greenish colour, placed irregu- 
larly on the exterior of the structure, which he calls 
eggs ; but we agree with Reaumur in thinking it 
more probable that they are small fragments of moss 
or lichen intermixed with the stone : in fact, we have 
ascertained that they are so*. 

When these little architects prepare for their 
change into chrysalides before becoming moths, they 
attach their tents securely to the stone over which 
they have hitherto rambled, by spinning a strong 
mooring of silk, so as not only to fill up every inter- 
stice between the main entrance of the tent and the 
stone, but also weaving a close, thick curtain of the 
same material, to shut up the entire aperture. 




Tents and Caterpillars, both of their natural size and magnified.' 

It is usual for insects which form similar struc- 
tures, to issue, when they assume the winged state, 
from the broader end of their habitation ; but our 
little stone-mason proceeds in a different manner. It 
leaves open the apex of the cone from the first, for 
the purpose of ejecting its excrements, and latterly 
it enlarges this opening a little, to allow of a free 
exit when it acquires wings ; taking care, however, 
to spin over it a canopy of silk, as a temporary pro- 
tection, which it can afterwards burst through with- 

* J. R. 







out difficulty. The moth itself is very much like the 
common clothes-moth in form, but is of a gilded 
bronze colour, aud considerably smaller. 

In the same locality, M. de Maupertuis found a 
numerous brood of small caterpillars, which employed 
grains of stone, not, like the preceding, for building 
feeding tents, but for their cocoons. This caterpillar 
was of a brownish-grey colour, with a white line 
along the back, on each side of which were tufts of 
hair. The cocoons which it built were oval, and less 
in size than a hazel nut, the grains of the stone being 
skilfully woven into irregular meshes of silk. 

In June, 1829, we found a numerous encampment 
of the tent-building caterpillars described by MM. 
de la Voye and Reaumur, on the brick wall of a gar- 
den at Blackheath, Kent*. They were so very small, 
however, and so like the lichen on the wall, that, had 
not our attention been previously directed to their 
habits, we should have considered them as portions of 
the wall ; for not one of them was in motion, and it 
was only by the neat, turbinated, conical form in which 
they had constructed their habitations, that we detected 
them. We tried the experiment above-mentioned, of 
ejecting one of the caterpillars from its tent, in order 
to watch its proceedings when constructing another ; 
but probably its haste to procure shelter, or the arti- 
ficial circumstances into which it was thrown, influ- 
enced its operations, for it did not form so good a 
tent as the first, the texture of the walls being much 
slighter, while it was more rounded at the apex, and 
of course not so elegant. Reaumur found, in all his 
similar experiments, that the new structure equalled 
the old ; but most of the trials of this kind which we 
have made correspond with the inferiority which we 
have here recorded. The process indeed is the same, 

* J.R. 

 

but it seems to be done with more hurry and less care. 
It may be, indeed, in some cases, that the supply of 
silk necessary to unite the bits of stone, earth, or 
lichen employed, is too scanty for perfecting a second 
structure. 

We remarked a very singular circumstance in 
the operations of our little architect, which seems 
to have escaped the minute and accurate attention 
of Reaumur. When it commenced its structure, it 
was indispensable to lay a foundation for the walls 
about to be reared ; but as the tent was to be moveable 
like the shell of a snail, and not stationary, it would 
not have answered its end to cement the foundation 
to the wall. We had foreseen this difficulty, and felt 
not a little interested in discovering how it would be 
got over. Accordingly, upon watching its move- 
ments with some attention, we were soon gratified 
to perceive that it used its own body as the pri- 
mary support of the building. It fixed a thread 
of silk upon one of its right feet, warped it over to the 
corresponding left foot, and upon the thread thus 
stretched between the two feet, it glued grains of 
stone and chips of lichen, till the wall was of the re- 
quired thickness. Upon this, as a foundation, it 
continued to work till it had formed a small portion 
in form of a parallelogram ; and, proceeding in a 
similar way, it was not long in making a ring a very 
little wider than sufficient to admit its body. It ex- 
tended this ring in breadth, by working on the inside 
only, narrowing the diameter by degrees, till it began 
to take the form of a cone. The apex of this cone 
was not closed up, but left as an aperture through 
which to eject its excrements. 

It is worthy of remark, that one of the caterpillars 
which we deprived of its tent, attempted to save itself 
the trouble of building a new one, by endeavouring 
to unhouse one of its neighbours. For this purpose, 







it got upon the outside of the inhabited tent, and 
sliding its head down to the entrance, tried to make 
its way into the interior. But the rightful owner 
did not choose to give up his premises so easily ; and 
fixed his tent down so firmly upon the table where we 
had placed it, that the intruder was forced to aban- 
don his attempt. The instant, however, that the other 
unmoored his tent and began to move about, the in- 
vader renewed his efforts to eject him, persevering 
in the struggle for several hours, but without a 
chance of success. At one time, we imagined that 
he would have accomplished his felonious intentions; 
for he bound down the apex of the tent to the table 
with cables of silk. But he attempted his entrance 
at the wrong end. He ought to have tried the aper- 
ture in the apex, by enlarging which a little he 
would undoubtedly have made good his entrance ; 
and as the inhabitant could not have turned upon 
him for want of room, the castle must have been 
surrendered. This experiment, however, was not 
tried, and there was no hope for him at the main 
entrance. 

Muff-shaped Tents. 

The ingenuity of man has pressed into his service 
not only the wool, the hair, and even the skins of 
animals, but has most extensively searched the vege- 
table kingdom for the materials of his clothing. In 
all this, however, he is rivalled by the tiny inhabi- 
tants of the insect world, as we have already seen; 
and we are about now to give an additional instance 
of the art of a species of caterpillars which select a 
warmer material for their tents than even the cater- 
pillar of the clothes-moth. It may have been remarked 
by many who are not botanists, that the seed-catkins 
of the willow become, as they ripen, covered with a 
species of down or cotton, which, however, is too 




short in the fibre to be advantageously employed in 
our manufactures. But the caterpillars to which we 
have alluded, find it well adapted for their habita- 
tions. 

The muff-looking tent in which we find these in- 
sects, does not require much trouble to construct ; 
for the caterpillar does not, like the clothes-moth 
caterpillar, join the willow-cotton together, fibre by 
fibre — it is contented with the state in which it 
finds it on the seed. Into this it burrows, lines the 
interior with a tapestry of silk, and then detaches the 
whole from the branch where it was growing, and 
carries it about with it as a protection while it is 
feeding*. 




a, branch of the willow, with seed spike covered with cotton. 
b, muff tents made of this cotton by c, the caterpillar. 



* Reaumur, iii. p. 130. 











An inquiring friend of Reaumur having found 
one of these insects floating about in its muff-tent 
upon water, concluded that they fed upon aquatic 
plants ; but he was soon convinced that it had only 
been blown down by an accident, which must fre- 
quently happen, as willows so often hang over water. 
May it not be, that the buoyant materials of the tent 
were intended to furnish the little inhabitant with a 
life-boat, in which, when it chanced to be blown into 
the water, it might sail safely ashore and regain its 
native tree ? 

Leaf-mining Caterpillars. 

The process of mining between the two mem- 
branes of a leaf is carried on to more extent by mi- 
nute caterpillars allied to the tent-makers above 
described. The tent-maker never deserts his house, 
except when compelled, and therefore can only mine 
to about half the length of his own body ; but the 
miners now to be considered make the mine itself 
their dwelling-place, and as they eat their way they 
lengthen and enlarge their galleries. A few of 
these mining caterpillars are the progeny of small 
weevils ( Curculionidce ), some of two- winged flies 
( Diptera ), but the greater number are produced from 
a genus of minute moths ( (Ecophora , Latr.) which, 
when magnified, appear to be amongst the most 
splendid and brilliant of nature’s productions, vying 
even with the humming birds and diamond beetles 
of the tropics in the rich metallic colours which be- 
spangle their wings. Well may Bonnet call them 
“ tiny miracles of nature,” and regret that they are 
not e.n grand *. 

There are few plants or trees whose leaves may not, 
at some season of the year, be found mined by these 

* Bonnet^ Contempl. de la Nature, Part xii. 





caterpillars, the track of whose progress appears on 
the upper surface in winding lines. Let us take one 
of the most common of these for an example, — that 
of the rose-leaf, produced by the caterpillar of Ray’s 
golden-silver spot (. Argyromiges Rayella ? Curtis) 
of which we have just gathered above a dozen speci- 
mens from one rose-tree' 1 '. 




Leaf of the Monthly-Rose (Rosa Indica) mined by Caterpillars 
of Argyromiges? 

It may be remarked, that the winding line is 
black, closely resembling the tortuous course of a 
river on a map, — beginning like a small brook, and 
gradually increasing in breadth as it proceeds. This 
representation of a river exhibits, besides, a narrow 
white valley on each side of it, increasing as it goes, 
till it terminates in a broad delta. The valley is the 
portion of the inner leaf from which the caterpillar 
has eaten the pulp ( parenchyma ), while the river 
itself has been formed by the liquid cjectamenta of 
the insect, the watery part becoming evaporated. In 
other species of miners, however, the dung is hard 

* J.R. 







and dry, and consequently these only exhibit the 
valley without the river. (See p. 237.) 

On looking’ at the back of the leaf, where the wind- 
ing line begins, we uniformly find the shell of the 
very minute egg from which the caterpillar has been 
hatched, and hence perceive that it digs into the leaf 
the moment it escapes from the egg, without wan- 
dering a hair’s breadth from the spot; as if afraid 
lest the air should visit it too roughly. The egg is, 
for the most part, placed upon the midrib of the rose- 
leaf, but sometimes on one of the larger nervures. 
When once it has got within the leaf, it seems to 
pursue no certain direction, sometimes working to 
the centre, sometimes to the circumference, sometimes 
to the point, and sometimes to the base, and even, 
occasionally, crossing or keeping parallel to its own 
previous track. 

The most marvellous circumstance, however, is 
the minuteness of its workmanship ; for though a 
rose leaf is thinner than this paper, the insect finds 
room to mine a tunnel to live in, and plenty of food, 
without touching the two external membranes. Let 
any one try with the nicest dissecting instruments to 
separate the two plates of a rose leaf, and he will 
find it impossible to proceed far without tearing one 
or other. The caterpillar goes still further in mi- 
nute nicety; for it may be remarked, that its track 
can only be seen on the upper, and not on the under 
surface of the leaf, proving that it eats as it pro- 
ceeds only half the thickness of the pulp, or that 
portion of it which belongs to the upper membrane 
of the leaf. 

We have found this little miner on almost every 
sort of rose-tree, both wild and cultivated, including 
the sweet-briar, in which the leaf being very small, 
it requires nearly the whole parenchyma to feed one 
caterpillar. They seem, however, to prefer the foreign 







monthly rose to any of our native species, and there 
are few trees of this where they may not be dis- 
covered. 

Tunnels, very analogous to the preceding, may be 
found upon the common bramble (Rubus fruticosus), 
but the little miner seems to proceed more regularly, 
always, when newly hatched, making directly for the 
circumference, upon or near which also the mother 
moth deposits her egg, and winding along for half 
the extent of the leaf close upon the edge, following, 
in some cases, the very indentations formed by the 
terminating nervures. 




Leaf of the Dew-berry Bramble ( Rubus Cassius') mined by Caterpillars. 

The bramble-leaf miner seems also to differ from 
that of the rose-leaf, by eating the pulp both from 
the upper and under surface, at least the track is 
equally distinct above and below ; yet this may arise 
from the different consistence of the leaf pulp, that 
in the rose being firm, while that of the bramble is 
soft and puffy. 

On the leaves of the common primrose ( Primula 
veris ), as well as on the garden variety of it, the 
polyanthus, one of those mining caterpillars may very 
frequently be found. It is, however, considerably 







different from the preceding, for there is no black 
trace — no river to the valley which it excavates : its 
ejectamenta, being small and solid, are seen, when the 
leaf is dried, in little black points like grains of sand. 
This miner, also, seems more partial than the pre- 
ceding to the midrib and its vicinity, in consequence 
of which its path is seldom so tortuous, and often 
appears at its extremity to terminate in an area, com- 
paratively extensive, arising from its recrossing its 
previous tracks *. 




Leaf of the Primrose [Primula veris) mined by a Caterpillar. 

Swammerdam describes a mining caterpillar which 
he found on the leaves of the alder, though it did 
not, like those we have just described, excavate a 
winding gallery; it kept upon the same spot, and 
formed only an irregular area. A moth was pro- 
duced from this, whose upper wings, he says, 
“ shone and glittered most gloriously with crescents 
of gold, silver, and brown, surrounded by borders of 
delicate black.” Another area miner which he found 
on the leaves of willows, as many as seventeen on 
one leaf, producing what appeared to be rusty spots, 
was metamorphosed into a very minute Aveevil 
(Curculio Rhinoc .). He saysjhe has been informed, 



* J. R. 







that, in warm climates, worms are found in leaves an 
inch long, and adds, with great simplicity, “on these 
many fine experiments might have been made, if the 
inhabitants had not laboured under the cursed thirst 
of gold*/’ 

The vine-leaf miner, when about to construct its 
cocoon, cuts, from the termination of its gallery, two 
pieces of the membrane of the leaf, deprived of their 
pulp, in a similar manner to the tent-makers de- 
scribed above, uniting them and lining them with 
silk. This she carries to some distance before she 
lays herself up to undergo her change. Her mode 
of walking under her burden is peculiar, for, not con- 
tented with the security of a single thread of silk, 
she forms, as Bonnet says, “little mountains ( mon- 
ticules ) of silk, from distance to distance, and seizing 
one of these with her teeth, drags herself forward, and 
makes it a scaffolding from which she can build 
another +.” Some of the miners, however, do not 
leave their galleries, but undergo their transforma- 
tions there, taking the precaution to mine a cell, not 
in the upper, but in the under surface of the leaf; 
others only shift to another portion of the leaf. 

Social Leaf-Miners. 

The preceding descriptions apply to caterpillars 
who construct their mines in solitude, there being 
seldom more than one on a leaf or leaflet, unless 
when two mother flies happen to lay their eggs on the 
same leaf ; but there are others, such as the miners 
of the leaves of the henbane ( Hyoscyamus niger) 
which excavate a common area in concert — from four 
to eight forming a colony. These are very like flesh 
maggots, being larger than the common miners ; the 

* Swammerd. Book of Nature, vol. ii. p. 84. 

f Contempt, de la Nature, part xii. p. 197. 







leaves of this plant, from being thick and juicy, 
giving them space to work and plenty to eat. 

Most of the solitary leaf-miners either cannot or 
will not construct a new mine, if ejected by an ex- 
perimenter from the old, as we have frequently 
proved; but this is not the case with the social 
miners of the henbane leaf. Bonnet ejected one of 
these, and watched it with his glass till it com- 
menced a new tunnel, which it also enlarged with 
great expedition ; and in order to verify the assertion 
of Reaumur, that they neither endeavour nor fear to 
meet one another, he introduced a second. Neither 
of them manifested any knowledge of the other’s con- 
tiguity, but both worked hard at the gallery, as did a 
third and a fourth which he afterwards introduced; 
for though they seemed uneasy, they never attacked 
one another, as the solitary ones often do when they 
meet*. 

Bark-mining Caterpillars. 

A very different order of mining caterpillars are 
the progeny of various beetles, which excavate their 
galleries in the soft inner bark of trees, or between it 
and the young wood (Alburnum). Some of these, 
though small, commit extensive ravages, as may rea- 
dily be conceived when we are told that as many as 
eighty thousand are occasionally found on one tree. 
Jn 1783 the trees thus destroyed by the printer beetle 
(Tomicus typographus , Latr.), so called from its 
tracks resembling letters, amounted to above a million 
and a half in the Hartz forest. It appears there pe- 
riodically, and confines its ravages to the fir. This 
insect is said to have been found in the neighbour- 
hood of London. 

On taking off the bark of decaying poplars and 
willows, we have frequently met with the tracks of 

* Bonnet, Observ. sur les Insectes, vol, ii. p. 425, 







a miner of this order, extending in tortuous path- 
ways, about a quarter of an inch broad, for several 
feet and even yards in length. The excavation is 
not circular, but a compressed oval, and crammed 
throughout with a dark-coloured substance like saw- 
dust — the excrement no doubt of the little miner, 
who is thereby protected from the attacks of staplnj- 
linidcc , and other predaceous insects, from behind. 
But though we have found a great number of these 
subcortical tracks, we have never discovered one of 
the miners, though they are very probably the grubs 
of the pretty musk-beetle ( Cerambyx moschatus ) 
which is so abundant in the neighbourhood of the 
trees in question, that the very air in summer is per- 
fumed with their odour 

Another capricorn beetle of this family is no less 
destructive to bark in its perfect state, than the above 
are when grubs, as, from its habit of eating round a 
tree, it cuts the course of the returning sap, and de- 
stroys it. 




Capricorn Beetle , {Cerambyx Lamia amputator ) rounding off the barli of a 

tree. 

* J. R. 




Grasshoppers, locusts, crickets, and beetles are, in 
many respects, no less interesting* than the insects 
whose architectural proceedings we have already de- 
tailed. They do not, indeed, build any edifice for the 
accommodation of themselves or their progeny ; but 
most, if not all of them, excavate retreats in walls or 
in the ground. 

The house-cricket ( Acheta domcstica) is well 
known for its habit of picking out the mortar of 
ovens and kitchen fire-places, where it not only 
enjoys warmth, but can procure abundance of 
food. It is usually supposed that it feeds on bread. 
M. Latreille says it only eats insects, and it cer- 
tainly thrives well in houses infested by the cock- 
roach ; but we have also known it eat and destroy 
lamb’s-wool stockings, and other woollen stuffs, hung 
near a fire to dry. It is evidently not fond of hard 
labour, but prefers those places where the mortar is 
already loosened, or at least is new, soft, and easily 
scooped out ; and in this way it will dig covert ways 
from room to room. In summer, crickets often make 
excursions from the house to the neighbouring fields, 
and dwell in the crevices of rubbish, or the cracks 
made in the ground by dry weather, where they chirp 
as merrily as in the snuggest chimney corner. Whe- 
ther they ever dig retreats in such circumstances, we 
have not ascertained ; though it is not improbable 
they may do so for the purpose of making nests. M. 





Bory St. Vincent tells us, that the Spaniards are so 
fond of crickets that they keep them in cages like 
singing birds*. 

The Mole-Cricket. 

The insect called, from its similarity of habits to the 
mole, the mole-cricket ( Gryllotalpa vulgaris , Latr.) 
is but too well known in gardens and corn-fields in 
some parts of England, such as Wiltshire and Hamp- 
shire, though it is comparatively rare or unknown in 
others. It burrows in the ground, and forms exten- 
sive galleries similar to those of the mole, though 
smaller ; and these may always be recognised by a 
slightly-elevated ridge of mould : for the insect does 
not throw up the earth in hillocks like the mole, but 
gradually, as it digs along, in the manner of the field- 
mouse. In this way it commits great ravages in hot- 
beds and in gardens, upon pease, young cabbages, 
and other vegetables, the roots of which it is said 
to devour. It is not improbable, we think, that, 
like its congener, the house-cricket, it may also prey 
upon underground insects, and undermine the plants 
to get at them, as the mole has been proved to do. 
Mr. Gould, indeed, fed a mole-cricket for several 
months upon ants. 

The structure of the mole-cricket’s arms and hands 
(if we may call them so) is admirably adapted for 
these operations, being both very strong, and moved 
by a peculiar apparatus of muscles. The breast is 
formed of a thick, hard, horny substance, which is 
further strengthened within by a double frame-work 
of strong gristle, in front of the extremities of w hich 
the shoulder blades of the arms are firmly jointed ; a 
structure evidently intended to prevent the breast 
from being injured by the powerful action of the 

* Diet. Clussique d’Hist. Nat. Ait. Grillon, 








muscles of the arms in digging. The arms them- 
selves are strong and broad, and the hand is fur- 
nished with four large sharp claws, pointing somewhat 
obliquely outwards, this being the direction in which 
it digs, throwing the earth on each side of its course. 



The nest which the female constructs for her eggs, 
in the beginning of May, is well worthy of attention. 
The Rev. Mr. White, of Selborne, tells us that a 
gardener, at a house where he was on a visit, while 
mowing grass by the side of a canal, chanced to strike 
his scythe too deep, and pared off a large piece of 
turf, laying open to view an interesting scene of 
domestic economy. There was a pretty chamber dug 
in the clay, of the form and about the dimensions it 
would have had if moulded by an egg, the walls 
being neatly smoothed and polished. In this little 
cell were deposited about a hundred eggs, of the 
size and form of caraway comfits, and of a dull tar- 
nished white colour. The eggs were not very deep, 

y2 



The Mole-Cricket , with a separate outline of one of its hands. 







but just under a little heap of fresh mould, and within 
the influence of the sun’s heat*. 

Like the eggs and young of other insects, however, 
those of the mole-cricket are exposed to depredation, 
and particularly to the ravages of a black beetle which 
burrows in similar localities. The mother insect, 
accordingly, does not think her nest secure till she 
has defended it, like a fortified town, with labyrinths, 
entrenchments, ramparts, and covert ways. In some 
part of these outworks she stations herself as an ad- 
vanced guard, and when the beetle ventures within 
her circumvallations, she pounces upon him and kills 
him. 




Nest of the Mole-Cricket. 



The Field-Cricket. 

Another insect of this family, the field-cricket ( Acheia 
campcstris ), also forms burrows in the ground, in 
which it lodges all day, and comes out chiefly about 
sun-set, to pipe its evening song. It is so very shy and 
cautious, however, that it is by no means easy to 
discover either the insect or its burrow. “ The 
children in France amuse themselves with hunting 
after the field-cricket ; they put into its hole an ant 
fastened by a long hair, and as they draw it out the 
gricket does not fail to pursue it, and issue from its 



* Nat, Hist, of Splborne, ii. 82, 







retreat. Pliny informs us it might be captured in a 
much more expeditious and easy manner. If, for 
instance, a small and slender piece of stick were to 
be thrust into the burrow, the insect, he says, would 
immediately get upon it for the purpose of demand- 
ing the occasion of the intrusion : whence arose the 
proverb stultior grillo (more foolish than a cricket), 
applied to one who, upon light grounds, provokes his 
enemy, and falls into the snares which might have 
been laid to entrap him*.” 

The Rev. Mr. White, who attentively studied 
their habits and manners, at first made an attempt 
to dig them out with a spade, but without any 
great success ; for either the bottom of the hole 
was inaccessible, from its terminating under a large 
stone, or else, in breaking up the ground, the poor 
creature was inadvertently squeezed to death. Out 
of one thus bruised, a great number of eggs were 
taken, which were long and narrow, of a yellow 
colour, and covered with a very tough skin. More 
gentle means were then used, and these proved suc- 
cessful. A pliant stalk of grass, gently insinuated > 
into the caverns, will probe their windings to the 
bottom, and bring out the inhabitant; and thus the 
humane inquirer may gratify his curiosity without 
injuring the object of it. 

When the males meet, they sometimes fight very 
fiercely, as Mr. White found by some that he put into 
the crevices of a dry stone wall, where he wished to 
have them settle. For though they seemed distressed 
by being taken out of their knowledge, yet the first that 
got possession of the chinks seized on all the others 
that were obtruded upon him with his large row of 
serrated fangs. With their strong jaws, toothed like 
the shears of a lobsters claws, they perforate and 

* Entomologie, par K. A. E., l8mo., Paris, 1826, p. 168. 

Y 3 







round their curious regular cells, having no fore- 
claws to dig with, like the mole-cricket. When 
taken into the hand, they never attempt to defend 
themselves, though armed with such formidable wea- 
pons. Of such herbs as grow about the mouths of 
their burrows they eat indiscriminately, and never 
in the day-time seem to stir more than two or three 
inches from home. Sitting in the entrance of their 
caverns, they chirp all night as well as day, from the 
middle of the month of May to the middle of July. 
In hot weather, when they are most vigorous, they 
make the hills echo ; and, in the more still hours of 
darkness, may be heard to a very considerable dis- 
tance. “ Not many summers ago,” says Mr. White, 
“ I endeavoured to transplant a colony of these in- 
sects to the terrace in my garden, by boring deep 




A :rida vcirncivorn depositing her Eggs. 

The usual position of the ovipositor is represented by dots. 







holes in the sloping’ turf. The new inhabitants staid 
some time, and fed and sang- ; but they wandered 
away by degrees, and were heard at a greater dis- 
tance every morning ; so it appears that on this 
emergency they made use of their wings in attempting 
to return to the spot from which they were taken*.” 
The manner in which these insects lay their eggs is 
represented in the preceding figure ; which is that of 
an insect nearly allied to the crickets, though of a 
different genus. 

o 

A more laborious task is performed by an insect by 
no means uncommon in Britain, the Burying Beetle 
( Necrojj/iorus vespillo ), which may be easily recog- 
nised by its longish body, of a black colour, with two 
broad and irregularly indented bands of yellowish 
brown. A foreign naturalist, M. Gleditsch, gives a 
very interesting account of its industry. He had 
“often remarked that dead moles, when laid upon the 
ground, especially if upon loose earth, were almost 
sure to disappear in the course of two or three days, 
often of twelve hours. To ascertain the cause, he 
placed a mole upon one of the beds in his garden 
It had vanished by the third morning ; and, on dig ¦ 
ging where it had been laid, he found it buried to the 
depth of three inches, and under it four beetles, which 
seemed to have been the agents in this singular 
inhumation. Not perceiving anything particular in 
the mole, he buried it again ; and on examining if at 
the end of six days, he found it swarming with mag- 
gots, apparently the issue of the beetles, which M. 
Gleditsch now naturally concluded had buried the 
carcass for the food of their future young. To deter- 
mine these points more clearly, he put four of these 
insects into a glass vessel, half filled with earth and - 
properly secured, and, upon the surface of the earth, 
two frogs. In less than twelve hours one of the frogs 
w.as interred by two of the beetles ; the other two run 

* Nat. Mist. Sclborue. 






about the whole day, as if busied in measuring the 
dimensions of the remaining corpse, which on the 
third day was also found buried. He then introduced 
a dead linnet. A pair of the beetles were soon en- 
gaged upon the bird. They began their operations 
by pushing out the earth from under the body, so as 
to form a cavity for its reception ; and it was curious 
to see the efforts which the beetles made, by dragging 
at the feathers of the bird from below, to pull it into 
its grave. The male, having driven the female away, 
continued the work alone for five hours. He lifted 
up the bird, changed its place, turned it and arranged 
it in the grave, and from time to time came out of 
the hole, mounted upon it, and trod it under foot, 
and then retired below, and pulled it down. At 
length, apparently wearied with this uninterrupted 
labour, it came forth, and leaned its head upon the 
earth beside the bird without the smallest motion, as 
if to rest itself, for a full hour, when it again crept 
under the earth. The next day, in the morning, the 
bird was an inch and a half under ground, and the 
trench remained open the whole day, the corpse seem- 
ing as if laid out upon a bier, surrounded with a 
rampart of mould. In the evening it had sunk half 
an inch lower, and in another day the work was com- 
pleted, and the bird covered. M. Gleditsch con- 
tinued to add other small dead animals, which were 
all sooner or later buried ; and the result of iiis 
experiment was, that in fifty days four beetles had 
interred, in the very small space of earth allotted to 
them, twelve carcasses : viz., four frogs, three small 
birds, two fishes, one mole, and two grasshoppers, 
besides the entrails of a fish, and two morsels of the 
lungs of an ox. In another experiment, a single 
beetle buried a mole forty times its own bulk and 
weight in two days*.” 

* Act. Acad. Bcrolin. 1752, et Gleditsch, Phys. Botan., quoted 
by Kirby and Spence, ii. 353, 







Iii the summer of 1826, we found on Putney Heath, 
in Surrey, four of these beetles, hard at work in bury- 
ing* a dead crow, precisely in the manner described 
by M. Gleditsch*. 

Dung-Beetle. 

A still more common British insect, the Dorr, 
Clock, or Dung* Beetle ( Geotrupes stercorarius ), uses 
different materials for burying along with its eggs. 
“ It digs,” to use the words of Kirby and Spence, 
“ a deep cylindrical hole, and carrying down a mass 
of the dung to the bottom, in it deposits its eggs. 
And many of the species of the genus Ateuchus roll 
together wet dung into round pellets, deposit an egg 
in the midst of each, and when dry push them back- 
wards, by their hind feet, to holes of the surprising- 
depth of three feet, which they have previously dug 
for their reception, and which are often several yards 
distant. The attention of these insects to their eggs 
is so remarkable, that it was observed in the earliest 
ages, and is mentioned by ancient writers, but with 
the addition of many fables, as that they were all of 
the male sex ; that they became young again every 
year ; and that they rolled the pellets containing their 
eggs from sunrise to sunset every day, for twenty- 
eight days without intermissionf.” 

“ We frequently, notice in our evening walks,” says 
Mr. Knapp, “ the murmuring passage, and are often 
stricken by the heedless flight, of the great dorr- 
beetle ( Geotrupes stercorarius ), clocks, as the boys 
call them. But this evening my attention was called 
to them in particular, by the constant passing of such 
a number as to constitute something like a little 
stream ; and I was led to search into the object of 
their direct flight, as in general it is irregular and 



* J. R. 



f M outlet; 153. Kirby and Spencc ; ii. 350, 







seemingly inquisitive. I soon found that they dropped 
on some recent nuisance : but what powers of per- 
ception must these creatures possess, drawn from all 
distances and directions by the very little fetor which, 
in such a calm evening, could be diffused around, 
and by what inconceivable means could odours reach 
this beetle in such a manner as to rouse so inert an 
insect into action ! But it is appointed one of the 
great scavengers of the earth, and marvellously en- 
dowed with powers of sensation, and means of effect- 
ing this purpose of its being. Exquisitely fabricated 
as it is to receive impressions, yet probably it is not 
more highly gifted than any of the other innumerable 
creatures that wing their way around us, or creep 
about our paths, though by this one perceptible 
faculty, thus ‘ dimly seen,’ it excites our wonder and 
surprise. How wondrous then the whole ! 

“ The perfect cleanliness of these creatures is a 
very notable circumstance, when we consider that 
nearly their whole lives are passed in burrowing in 
the earth, and removing nuisances ; yet such is the 
admirable polish of their coating and limbs, that we 
very seldom find any soil adhering to them. The 
meloe, and some of the scarabsei, upon first emerging 
from their winter’s retreat, are commonly found with 
earth clinging to them ; but the removal of this is 
one of the first operations of the creature ; and all 
the beetle race, the chief occupation of which is 
crawling about the soil, and such dirty employs, are 
notwithstanding remarkable for the glossiness of 
their covering, and freedom from defilements of any 
kind. But purity of vesture seems to be a principal 
precept of nature, and observable throughout creation. 
Fishes, from the nature of the element in which they 
reside, can contract but little impurity. Birds are 
unceasingly attentive to neatness and lustration of 
their plumage. All the slug race, though covered 







with slimy matter calculated to collect extraneous 
things, and reptiles, are perfectly free from soil. The 
fur and hair of beasts, in a state of liberty and health, 
is never filthy, or sullied with dirt. Some birds 
roll themselves in dust, and, occasionally, particular 
beasts cover themselves with mire ; but this is not 
from any liking or inclination for such things, but 
to free themselves from annoyances, or to pre- 
vent the bites of insects. Whether birds in preening, 
and beasts in dressing themselves, be directed by 
any instinctive faculty, we know not ; but they evi- 
dently derive pleasure from the operation, and thus 
this feeling of enjoyment, even if the sole motive, 
becomes to them an essential source of comfort and 
of health*.” 

The rose or green chafer ( Cetonia aurcita), which is 
one of our prettiest native insects, is one of the bur- 
rowers, and for the purpose of depositing her eggs, 
digs, about the middle of June, into soft light 
ground. When she is seen at this operation, with 
her broad and delicate wings folded up in their shining 
green cases, speckled with white, it could hardly be 
imagined that she had but just descended from the 
air, or dropped down from some neighbouring rose. 

The proceedings of the Tumble-Dung Beetle of 
America {Scarab ecus pilularius, Linn.) are de- 
scribed in a very interesting manner by Catesby, 
in his ‘ Carolina.’ “ I have,” says he, “ attentively 
admired their industry, and mutual assisting of 
each other in rolling their globular balls from the 
place where they made them to that of their in- 
terment, which is usually the distance of some 
yards, more or less. This they perform breech fore- 
most, by raising their hind parts, and forcing along 



* Journal oi a Naturalist, p. 31 1 . 







the ball with their hind feet. Two or three of them 
are sometimes engaged in trundling one It all, which, 
from meeting with impediments on account of the 
unevenness of the ground, is sometimes deserted by 
them. It is, however, attempted by others with 
success, unless it happens to roll into some deep hol- 
low or chink, where they are constrained to leave it ; 
but they continue their work by rolling off the next 
ball that comes in their way. None of them seem 
to know their own balls, but an equal care for the 
whole appears to affect all the community. They 
form these pellets while the dung remains moist, and 
leave them to harden in the sun before they attempt 
to roll them. In their moving of them from place to 
place, both they and the balls may frequently be seen 
tumbling about over the little eminences that are in 
their way. They are not, however, easily discouraged ; 
and, by repeating their attempts, usually surmount 
the difficulties.” 

He further informs us that they “ find out their 
subsistence by the excellency of their noses, which 
direct them in their flight to newly-fallen dung, on 
which they immediately go to work, tempering it with 
a proper mixture of earth. So intent are they always 
upon their employment, that, though handled or 
otherwise interrupted, they are not to be deterred, 
but immediately on being freed, persist in their 
work without any apprehension of danger. They 
are said to be so exceedingly strong and active as to 
move about, with the greatest ease, things that are 
many times their own weight. Dr. Brichell was 
supping one evening in a planter’s house of North 
Carolina, when two of them were conveyed, without 
his knowledge, under the candlestick. A few blows 
were struck on the table, and, to his great surprise, 
the candlesticks began to move about, apparently 
without any agency ; and his surprise was not much 



 



lessened when, on taking one of them up, he dis- 
covered that it was only a chafer that moved.” 

We have often found the necklace-beetle ( Cardbus 
monilis ) inhabiting a chamber dug out in the earth 
of a garden, just sufficient to contain its body, and 
carefully smoothed and polished. From the form of 
this little nest, it would seem as if it were constructed, 
not by digging out the earth and removing it, but 
•chiefly by the insect pushing its body forcibly against 
the walls. The beetles which we have found nestling 
in this manner have been all males ; and therefore it 
cannot be intended for a breeding cell ; for male 
insects are never, we believe, sufficiently generous 
to their mates to assist them in such labours. The 
beetle in question appears to be partial to celery 
trenches* ; probably from the loose earth of which 
they are composed yielding, without much difficulty, 
to the pressure of its body. 

* J. R. 





 

All the species of ants are social. There are none 
solitary, as is the case with bees and wasps. They are 
all more or less skilful in architecture, some employ- 
ing masonry, and others being carpenters, wood- 
carvers, and miners. They consequently afford much 
that is interesting to naturalists who observe their 
operations. The genuine history of ants has only 
been recently investigated, first by Gould in 1747, 
and subsequently by Linnaeus, De Geer, Huber, 
and Latreille. Previous to that time their real indus- 
try, and their imagined foresight, were held up as 
moral lessons, without any great accuracy of observa- 
tion ; and it is probable that, even now, the mixture 
of truth and error in Addison’s delightful papers in 
the Guardian (Nos. 156, 157), may be more gene- 
rally attractive than the minute relations of careful 
naturalists. Gould disproved, most satisfactorily, 
the ancient fable of ants storing up corn for winter 
provision, no species of ants ever eating grain, or 
feeding in the winter upon anything. It is to 
Huber the younger, however, that we are chiefly in- 
debted for our knowledge of the habits and economy 
of ants ; and to Latreille for a closer distinction of 
the species. Some of the more interesting species, 
whose singular economy is described by the younger 
Huber, have not been hitherto found in this country. 
We shall, however, discover matter of very consider- 
able interest in those which are indigenous ; and as 
our principal object is to excite inquiry and observa- 
tion with regard to those insects which may be 
easily watched in our own gardens and fields, we 







shall chiefly confine ourselves to the ants of these 
islands. We shall begin with the labours of 
those native ants which may be called earth-masons, 
from their digging in the ground, and forming struc- 
tures with pellets of moistened loam, clay, or sand. 

Mason-Ants. 

We have used in the preceding pages, the terms 
mason-bees and mason-wasps , for insects which build 
their nests of earthy materials. On the same prin- 
ciple, we have followed the ingenious M. Huber the 
younger, in employing the term mason-ants for those 
whose nests on the exterior appear to be hillocks of 
earth, without the admixture of other materials, 
whilst in the interior they present a series of laby- 
rinths, lodges, vaults, and galleries, constructed with 
considerable skill. Of these mason-ants, as of the 
mason-wasps and bees already described, there are 
several species, differing from one another in their 
skill in the art of architecture. 

One of the most common of the ant-masons is 
the turf-ant ( Formica ccespitum , Latr.), which is of 
a blackish brown colour. Its architecture is not upon 
quite so extensive a scale as some of the others ; 
but, though slight, it is very ingenious. Sometimes 
they make choice of the shelter of a flat stone or 
other covering, beneath which they hollow out cham- 
bers and communicating galleries ; at other times 
they are contented with the open ground ; but most 
commonly they select a tuft of grass or other herbage, 
the stems of which serve for columns to their earthen 
walls. 

We had a small colony of these ants accidentally 
established in a flower-pot, in which we were rearing 
some young plants of the tiger-lily ( Liliumtigrinum ), 
the stems of which being stronger than the grass 
where they usually build, enabled them to rear their 




edifice higher, and also to make it more secure, than 
they otherwise might. It was wholly formed of 
small grains of moist earth, piled up between the 
stems of the lily without any apparent cement ; in- 
deed it has been ascertained by Huber, as we shall 
afterwards see, that they use no cement beside water. 
This is not always to be procured, as they depend 
altogether on rains and dew ; but they possess the art 
of joining grains of dry sand so as to support one 
another, on some similar principle, no doubt, to that 
of the arch. 

The nest which our turf-ants constructed in the 
flower-pot was externally of an imperfect square form, 
in consequence of its situation; for they usually prefer 
a circular plan. The principal chambers were placed 
under the arches, and, when inspected, contained a 
pile of cocoons and pupae. Beneath those upper 
chambers there were others dug out deeper down, in 
which were also a numerous collection of e£2*s and 
cocoons in various stages of advancement*. 

Mr. Knapp describes a still more curious structure 
of another species of ant common in this country : — 
“ One year,” says he, “ on the third of March, my 
labourer being employed in cutting up ant-hills, or 
tumps as we call them, exposed to view multitudes 
of the yellow species ( Formica flava) in their 
winter’s retirement. They were collected in numbers 
in little cells and compartments, communicating with 
others by means of narrow passages. In many of 
the cells they had deposited their larvse, which they 
were surrounding and attending, but not brooding 
over or covering. Being disturbed by our rude ope- 
rations, they removed them from our sight to more 
hidden compartments. The larvse were small. Some 
of these ant-hills contained multitudes of the young 
of the wood-louse (Oniscus armadillo ), inhabiting 

* J. It, 







with perfect familiarity the same compartments as 
the ants, crawling about with great activity with 
them, and perfectly domesticated with each other. 
They were small and white ; but the constant vibra- 
tion of their antennae, and the alacrity of their 
motions, manifested a healthy vigour. The ants were 
in a torpid state ; but on being removed into a tem- 
perate room, they assumed much of their summer’s 
animation. How these creatures are supported 
during the winter season it is difficult to compre- 
hend ; as in no one instance could we perceive any 
store or provision made for the supply of their 
wants. The minute size of the larvae manifested 
that they had been recently deposited ; and conse- 
quently that their parents had not remained during 
winter in a dormant state, and thus free from the 
calls of hunger. The preceding month of February, 
and part of January, had been remarkably severe; 
the frost had penetrated deep into the earth, and long 
held it frozen ; the ants were in many cases not more 
than four inches beneath the surface, and must have 
been enclosed in a mass of frozen soil for a lone: 
period ; yet they, their young, and the onisci, were 
perfectly uninjured by it : affording another proof 
of the fallacy of the commonly received opinion, that 
cold is universally destructive to insect life 

The earth employed by mason-ants is usually 
moist clay, either dug from the interior parts of their 
city, or moistened by rain. The mining-ants and the 
ash-coloured (Formica fusca) employ earth which is 
probably not selected with so much care, for it forms 
a much coarser mortar than what we see used in the 
structures of the yellow ants (F. jlavci) and . the 
brown ants (F. brunnea). We have never observed 
them bringing their building materials of this kind 
from a distance, like the mason-bees and like the 

* Journal of a Naturalist, page 304. 





wood or hill ant (F. rvfo ); but they take care before 
they fix upon a locality, that it shall produce them 
all that they recpiire. We are indebted to Huber 
the younger for the most complete account which 
has hitherto been given of these operations, of which 
details we shall make free use. 

“To form,” says this shrewd observer, “ a correct 
judgment of the interior arrangement or distribution of 
an ant-hill, it is necessary to select such as have not 
been accidentally spoiled, or whose form has not 
been too much altered by local circumstances ; a 
slight attention will then suffice to shew, that the ha- 
bitations of the different species are not all constructed 
after the same system. Thus, the hillock raised by 
the ash-coloured ants will always present thick walls, 
fabricated with Coarse earth, well-marked stories, and 
large chambers, with vaulted ceilings, resting upon 
a solid base. We never observe roads, or galleries, 
properly so called, but large passages, of an oval 
form, and all around considerable cavities and exten- 
sive embankments of earth. We further notice, 
that the little architects observe a certain proportion 
between the large arched ceilings and the pillars that 
are to support them. 

“ The brown ant ( Formica brunnea ), one of the 
smallest of the ants, is particularly remarkable for 
the extreme finish of its work. Its body is of a red- 
dish shining brown, its head a little deeper, and the 
antennae and feet a little lighter in colour. The ab- 
domen is of an obscure brown, the scale narrow, of 
a square form, and slightly scolloped. The body is 
one line and two-fifths in length*. 

“ This ant, one of the most industrious of its tribe, 
forms its nest of stories, four or five lines in height. 
The partitions are not more than half a line in thick- 
ness; and the substance of which they are composed 

* A line is the twelfth part of the old French inch. See Com- 
panion to the Almanac for 1830, p. 114. 







is so finely grained, that the inner walls present one 
smooth unbroken surface. These stories are not 
horizontal ; they follow the slope of the ant-hill, and 
lie one upon another to the ground-floor, which com- 
municates with the subterranean lodges. They are 
not always, however, arranged with the same regu- 
larity, for these ants do not follow an invariable 
plan ; it appears, on the contrary, that nature has 
allowed them a certain latitude in this respect, and that 
they can, according to circumstances, modify them 
to their wish ; but, however fantastical their habita- 
tions may appear, we always observe they have been 
formed by concentrical stories. On examining each 
story separately, we observe a number of cavities or 
halls, lodges of narrower dimensions, and long gal- 
leries, which serve for general communication. The 
arched ceilings covering the most spacious places 
are supported either by little columns, slender walls, 
or by regular buttresses. We also notice chambers, 
that have but one entrance, communicating with the 
lower story, and large open spaces, serving as a kind 
of cross-road ( carrefour ), in which all the streets 
terminate. 

“ Such is the manner in which the habitations of 
these ants are constructed. Upon opening them, we 
commonly find the apartments, as well as the large 
open spaces, filled with adult ants ; and always ob- 
serve their pupae collected in the apartments more 
or less near the surface. This, however, seems re- 
gulated by the hour of the day, and the temperature : 
for in this respect these ants are endowed with great 
sensibility, and know the degree of heat best adapted for 
their young. The ant-hill contains, sometimes, more 
than twenty stories in its upper portion, and at least 
as many under the surface of the ground. By this 
arrangement the ants are enabled, with the greatest 
facility, to regulate the heat. When a too burning 
sun over-heats their upper apartments, they withdraw 







their little ones to the bottom of the ant-hill. The 
ground-floor becoming, in its turn, uninhabitable 
during the rainy season, the ants of this species 
transport what most interests them to the higher 
stories ; and it is there we find them more usually 
assembled, with their eggs and pupae, when the sub- 
terranean apartments are submerged*.” 

Ants have a great dislike to water, when it exceeds 
that of a lig;ht shower to moisten their building: ma- 
terials. One species, mentioned by De Azara as in- 
digenous to South America, instinctively builds a 
nest from three to six feet highf, to provide against 
the inundations during the rainy season. Even this, 
however, does not always save them from submer- 
sion ; and, when that occurs, they are compelled, 
in order to prevent themselves from being swept 
away, to form a group, somewhat similar to the cur- 
tain of the wax-workers of hive-bees (see page 114). 
The ants constituting the basis of this group, lay 
hold of some shrub for security, while their compa- 
nions hold on by them ; and thus the whole colony, 
forming an animated raft, floats on the surface of the 
water till the inundation (which seldom continues 
longer than a day or two) subsides. 

It is usual with architectural insects to employ 
some animal secretion, by way of mortar or size, to 
temper the materials with which they work ; but the 
whole economy of ants is so different, that it would 
be wrong to infer from analogy a similarity in this 
respect, though the exquisite polish and extreme de- 
licacy of finish in their structures, lead, naturally, to 
such a conclusion. M. P. Huber, in order to resolve 
this question, at first thought of subjecting the ma- 
terials of the walls to chemical analysis, but wisely 
(as we think) abandoned it for the surer method of 
observation. The details which he has given, as the 

* M. P. Huber on Ants, page 20. 
f Stedman’s Surinam, vol. i. p. 160. 







result of his researches, are exceedingly curious and 
instructive. He began by observing an ant-hill till 
he could perceive some change in its form. 

“ The inhabitants,” says he, “ of that which I 
selected, kept within during the day, or only went out 
by subterranean galleries which opened at some feet 
distance in the meadow. There were, however, two 
or three small openings on the surface of the nest ; 
but I saw none of the labourers pass out this way, 
on account of their being too much exposed to the 
sun, which these insects greatly dread. This ant- 
hill, which had a round form, rose in the grass, at 
the border of a path, and had sustained no injury. 
I soon perceived that the freshness of the air and the 
dew invited the ants to walk over the surface of their 
nest; they began making new apertures; several 
ants might be seen arriving at the same time, thrust- 
ing their heads from the entrances, moving about 
their antennae, and at length adventuring forth to 
visit the environs. 

“ This brought to my recollection a singular opi- 
nion of the ancients. They believed that ants were 
occupied in their architectural labours during the 
night, when the moon was at its full *.” 

M. Latreille discovered a species of ants which 
were, so far as he could ascertain, completely blind f, 
and of course it would be immaterial to them whether 
they worked by night or during the day. All ob- 
servers indeed agree that ants labour in the night, 
and a French naturalist is therefore of opinion that 
they never sleep, — a circumstance which is well as- 
certained with respect to other animals, such as the 
shark, which will track a ship in full sail for weeks 
togetherj. The ingenious historian of English ants, 

* M. P. Huber on Ants, p. 23. 

-J- Latreille, Hist. Nat. des Fourmis, 
j Dr. Cleghorn, Thesis dc Somno. 






Gould, says they never intermit their labours by night 
or by day, except when compelled by excessive rains. 
It is probable the ancients were mistaken in asserting 
that they only work when the moon shines * ; for, 
like bees, they seem to find no difficulty in building 
in the dark, their subterranean apartments being as 
well finished as the upper stories of their buildings. 
But to proceed with the narrative of M. P. Huber. 

“ Having thus noticed the movements of these 
insects during the night, I found they were almost 
always abroad and engaged about the dome of their 
habitation after sunset. This was directly the reverse 
of what I had observed in the conduct of the wood- 
ants, (F. rufa ,) who only go out during the day, and 
close their doors in the evening. The contrast was 
still more remarkable than I had previously supposed ; 
for upon visiting the brown ants some days after, 
during a gentle rain, I saw all their architectural 
talents in full play. 

“As soon as the rain commenced, they left in 
great numbers their subterranean residence, re-entered 
it almost immediately, and then returned, bearing 
between their teeth pellets of earth, which they de- 
posited on the roof of their nest. I could not at first 
conceive what this was meant for, but at length I 
saw little walls start up on all sides with spaces left 
between them. In several places, columns, ranged at 
regular distances, announced halls, lodges, and pas- 
sages, which the ants proposed establishing; in a 
word, it was the rough beginning of a new story. 

“ I watched with a considerable degree of interest 
the most trifling movements of my masons, and 
found they did not work after the manner of wasps 

* Aristotle, Hist. Animal, ix. 38. Pliny says “ Operantur et 
noctu plena luna ; eadem interlunio cessant,” i. e. They work in 
the night at full moon, hut they leave off between moon and 
moon. It is the latter that we think doubtful. 







and humble-bees, when occupied in constructing a 
covering to their nest. The latter sit, as it were, 
astride on the border or margin of the covering, and 
take it between their teeth to model and attenuate it 
according to their wish. The wax of which it is 
composed, and the paper which the wasp employs, 
moistened by some kind of glue, are admirably 
adapted for this purpose, but the earth of which the 
ants make use, from its often possessing little tena- 
city, must be worked up after some other manner. 

“ Each ant, then, carried between its teeth the 
pellet of earth it had formed by scraping with the 
end of its mandibles the bottom of its abode, a 
circumstance which I have frequently witnessed in 
open day. This little mass of earth, being composed 
of particles but just united, could be readily kneaded 
and moulded as the ants wished ; thus, when they 
had applied it to the spot where they had to rest, 
they divided and pressed against it with their teeth, 
so as to fill up the little inequalities of their wall. 
The antenna; followed all their movements, passing 
over each particle of earth as soon as it was placed 
in its proper position. The whole was then rendered 
more compact, by pressing it lightly with the fore- 
feet. This work went on remarkably fast. After 
having traced out the plan of their masonry, in laying 
here and there foundations for the pillars and par- 
titions they were about to erect, they raised them 
gradually higher, by adding fresh materials. It 
often happened that two little walls, which were to 
form a gallery, were raised opposite, and at a slight 
distance from, each other. When they had attained 
the height of four or five lines, the ants busied 
themselves in covering in the space left between them 
by a vaulted ceiling. 

“ As if they judged all their partitions of sufficient 
elevation, they then quitted their labours in the 



 



upper part of the building* ; they affixed to the 
interior and upper part of each wall, fragments of 
moistened earth, in an almost horizontal direction, 
and in such a way as to form a ledge, which, by 
extension, would be made to join that coming from 
the opposite wall. These ledges were about half a 
line in thickness ; and the breadth of the galleries 
was, for the most part, about a quarter of an inch. 
On one side several vertical partitions were seen to 
form the scaffolding of a lodge, which communicated 
with several corridors, by apertures formed in the 
masonry ; on another, a regularly-formed hall was 
constructed, the vaulted ceiling of which was sus- 
tained by numerous pillars ; further off, again, might 
be recognised the rudiments of one of those cross 
roads of which I have before spoken, and in which 
several avenues terminate. These parts of the ant- 
hill were the most spacious ; the ants, however, did 
not appear embarrassed in constructing the ceiling 
to cover them in, although they were often more 
than two inches in breadth. 

“In the upper part of the angles formed by the 
different walls, they laid the first foundations of this 
ceiling, and from the top of each pillar, as from so 
many centres, a layer of earth, horizontal and slightly 
convex, was carried forward to meet the several 
portions coming from different points of the large 
public thoroughfare. 

“ I sometimes, however, laboured under an ap- 
prehension that the building could not possibly 
resist its own weight, and that such extensive ceilings, 
sustained only by a few pillars, would fall into ruin 
from the rain which continually dropped upon them ; 
but I was quickly convinced of their stability, from 
observing that the earth, brought by these insects, 
adhered at all points, on the slightest contact ; and 
that the rain, so far from lessening the cohesion of 







its particles, appeared even to increase it. Thus, 
instead of injuring' the building, it even contributed 
to render it still more secure. 

“ These particles of moistened earth, which are 
only held together by juxtaposition, require a fall of 
raiu to cement them more closely, and thus varnish 
over, as it were, those places where the walls and 
galleries remain uncovered. All inequalities in the ma- 
sonry then disappear. The upper part of these stories, 
formed of several pieces brought together, presents 
but one single layer of compact earth. They require 
for their complete consolidation nothing but the 
heat of the sun. It sometimes, however, happens 
that a violent rain will destroy the apartments, 
especially should they be but slightly arched; but 
under these circumstances the ants reconstruct them 
with wonderful patience. 

“ These different labours were carried on at the 
same time, and were so closely followed up in the 
different quarters, that the ant-hill received an addi- 
tional story in the course of seven or eight hours. 
All the vaulted ceilings being formed upon a regular 
plan, and at equal distances from one wall to the 
other, constituted, when finished, but one single 
roof. Scarcely had the ants finished one story than 
they began to construct another ; but they had not 
time to finish it — the rain ceasing before the ceiling 
was fully completed. They still, however, continued 
their work for a few hours, taking advantage of the 
humidity of the earth ; but a keen north wind soon 
sprung up, and hastily dried the collected fragments, 
which, no longer possessing the same adherence, 
readily fell into powder. The ants, finding their 
efforts ineffectual, were at length discouraged, and 
abandoned their employment ; but what was my 
astonishment when I saw them destroy all the apart- 
ments that were yet uncovered, scattering here and 

 



there over the last story the materials of which they 
had been composed ! These facts incontestably 
prove, that they employ neither gum, nor any kind 
of cement, to bind together the several substances 
of their nest ; but in place of this avail themselves of 
the rain, to work or knead the earth, leaving the sun 
and wind to dry and consolidate it*.” 

Dr. J ohnson of Bristol observed very similar pro- 
ceedings in the case of a colony of red ants ( Myr - 
mica rubra, ?), the roof of whose nest was formed 
by a flat stone. During dry weather, a portion of 
the side walls fell in ; but the rubbish was quickly 
removed, though no repairs were attempted till a 
shower of rain enabled them to work. As soon as 
this occurred, they worked with extraordinary rapi- 
dity, and in a short time the whole of the fallen 
parts were rebuilt, and rendered as smooth as if 
polished with a trowel. 

When a gardener wishes to water a plot of ground 
where he has sown seeds that recpiire nice manage- 
ment, he dips a strong brush into water, and passes 
his hand backwards and forwards over the hairs for 
the purpose of producing a fine artificial shower. 
Huber successfully adopted the same method to excite 
his ants to recommence their labours, which had been 
interrupted for want of moisture. But sometimes 
when they deem it unadvisable to wait for rain, they 
dig down (as we remarked to be the practice of the 
mason-bees) till they arrive at earth sufficiently moist 
for their purpose. They do not, however, like these 
bees, merely dig for materials ; for they use the exca- 
vations for apartments, as well as what they construct 
with the materials thence derived. They appear, in 
short, to be no less skilful in mining than in building. 

Such is the general outline of the operations of 



* M, P. Huber on Ants, p. 31. 







this singular species; but we are still more interested 
with the history which M. P. Huber has given of the 
labours of an individual ant. “ One rainy day,” 
he says, “ I observed a labourer of the dark ash- 
coloured species (Formica fusca) digging the ground 
near the aperture which gave entrance to the ant- 
hill. It placed in a heap the several fragments it 
had scraped up, and formed them into small pellets, 
which it deposited here and there upon the nest. 
It returned constantly to the same place, and ap- 
peared to have a particular design, for it laboured 
with ardour and perseverance. I remarked a slight 
furrow, excavated in the ground in a straight line, 
representing the plan of a path or gallery. The 
labourer (the whole of whose movements fell under 
my immediate observation) gave it greater depth and 
breadth, and cleared out its borders ; and I saw, at 
length — in which I could not be deceived — that it 
had the intention of establishing an avenue which 
was to lead from one of the stories to the under- 
ground chambers. This path, which was about two 
or three inches in length, and formed by a single 
ant, was opened above, and bordered on each side 
by a buttress of earth. Its concavity, in the form 
of a pipe ( gouttiere ), was of the most perfect regu- 
larity ; for the architect had not left an atom too 
much. The work of this ant was so well followed 
and understood, that I could almost to a certainty 
guess its next proceeding, and the very fragment it 
was about to remove. At the side of the opening 
where this path terminated was a second opening, 
to which it was necessary to arrive by some road. 
The same ant began and finished this undertaking 
without assistance. It furrowed out and opened 
another path, parallel to the first, leaving between 
each a little wall of three or four lines in height.” 
Like the hive-bees, ants do not seem to work 





in concert, but each individual separately. There 
is, consequently, an occasional want of coincidence 
in the walls and arches ; but this does not much 
embarrass them, for a worker, on discovering an 
error of this kind, seems to know how to rectify it, 
as appears from the following observations. 

“ A wall,” says M. Huber, “ had been erected, 
with the view of sustaining a vaulted ceiling, still 
incomplete, that had been projected towards the wall 
of the opposite chamber. The workman who began 
constructing it, had given it too little elevation to 
meet the opposite partition, upon which it was to 
rest. Had it been continued on the original plan, it 
must infallibly have met the wall at about one half 
of its height ; and this it was necessary to avoid. 
This state of things very forcibly claimed my atten- 
tion ; when one of the ants arriving at the place, and 
visiting the works, appeared to be struck by the dif- 
ficulty which presented itself ; but this it as soon 
obviated, by taking down the ceiling, and raising the 
wall upon which it reposed. It then, in my presence, 
constructed a new ceiling with the fragments of the 
former one. 

“ When the ants commence any undertaking, one 
would suppose that they worked after some precon- 
ceived idea, which, indeed, would seem verified by 
the execution. Thus, should any ant discover upon 
the nest two stalks of plants which lie crossways, a 
disposition favourable to the construction of a lodge, 
or some little beams that may be useful in forming 
its angles and sides, it examines the several parts 
with attention ; then distributes, with much sagacity 
and address, parcels of earth in the spaces, and 
along the stems, taking from every quarter materials 
adapted to its object, sometimes not caring to destroy 
the work that others had commenced ; so much are 
its motions regulated by the idea it has conceived, 







and upon which it acts, with little attention to all 
else around it. It goes and returns, until the plan 
is sufficiently understood by its companions, 

“ In another part of the same ant-hill,” continues 
M. Huber, “ several fragments of straw seemed ex- 
pressly placed to form the roof of a large house ; a 
workman took advantage of this disposition. These 
fragments lying horizontally, at half an inch distance 
from the ground, formed, in crossing each other, an 
oblong parallelogram. The industrious insect com- 
menced by placing earth in the several angles of this 
frame-work, and all along the little beams of which 
it was composed. The same workman afterwards 
placed several rows of the same materials against 
each other, when the roof became very distinct. On 
perceiving the possibility of profiting by another 
plant to support a vertical wall, it began laying the 
foundations of it ; other ants having by this time 
arrived, finished in common what this had com- 
menced 

M. Huber made most of his observations upon the 
processes followed by ants in glazed artificial hives 




* Hubei; on Ants, p. 43. 







or formicaries. The preceding figure represents a 
view of one of his formicaries of mason-ants. 

We have ourselves followed up his observations, 
both on natural ant-hills and in artificial formicaries. 
On digging cautiously into a natural ant-hill, esta- 
blished upon the edge of a garden walk, we were 
enabled to obtain a pretty complete view of the in- 
terior structure. There were two stories, composed 
of large chambers, irregularly oval, communicating 
with each other by arched galleries, the walls of all 
which were as smooth and well polished as if they 
had been passed over by a plasterer’s trowel. The 
floors of the chambers, we remarked, were by no 
means either horizontal or level, but all more or less 
sloped, and exhibiting in each chamber at least two 
slight depressions of an irregular shape. We left 
the under story of this nest untouched, with the 
notion that the ants might repair the upper galleries, 
of which we had made a vertical section ; but instead 
of doing so they migrated during the day to a large 
crack, formed by the dryness of the weather, about 
a yard from their old nest*. 




We put a number of yellow ants {Formica Jiava), 
with their eggs and cocoons, into a small glass frame, 
more than half full of moist sand taken from their 
native hill, and placed in a sloping position, in order 



* J. R. 







to see whether they would bring the nearly vertical, 
and therefore insecure, portion to a level by masonry. 
We were delighted to perceive that they immediately 
resolved upon performing the task which had been 
assigned them, though they did not proceed very 
methodically in their manner of building ; for instead 
of beginning at the bottom, and building upwards, 
many of them went on to add to the top of the outer 
surface, which increased rather than diminished the 
security of the whole. Withal, however, they seemed 
to know how far to go, for no portion of the newly 
built wall fell ; and in two days they had not only 
reared a pyramidal mound to prop the rest, but had 
constructed several galleries and chambers for lodging 
the cocoons, which we had scattered at random 
amongst the sand. The new portion of this building 
is represented in the figure as supporting the upper 
and insecure parts of the nest. 




We are sorry to record that our ingenious little 
masons were found upon the third day strewed about 
the outside of the building dead or dying, either from 
over fatigue or perhaps from surfeit, as we had sup- 
plied them with as much honey as they could devour. 
A small colony of turf-ants have at this moment 
(July 28th, 1829) taken possession of the premises 
of their own accord*. 



* J. R. 





The largest of our British ants is that called the Hill- 
ant by Gould, the Fallow-ant by the English trans- 
lator of Huber, and popularly the Pismire ; but which 
we think may be more appropriately named the Wood- 
ant ( Formica rufa , Latr.) from its invariable habit 
of living in or near woods and forests. This insect 
may be readily distinguished from other ants by the 
dusky black colour of its head and hinder parts, and 
the rusty brown of its middle. The structures reared 
by this species are often of considerable magnitude, 
and bear no small resemblance to a rook’s nest thrown 
upon the ground, bottom upwards. They occur in 
abundance in the woods near London, and in many 
other parts of the country: in Oak of Honour wood 
alone, we are acquainted with the localities of at 
least two dozen, — some in the interior and others on 
the hedge-banks on the outskirts of the wood*. 

The exterior of the nest is composed of almost 
every transportable material which the colonists can 
find in their vicinity; but the greater portion consists 
of the stems of withered grass and short twigs of 
trees, piled up in apparent confusion, but with suf- 
ficient regularity to render the whole smooth, conical, 
and sloping towards the base, for the purpose, we 
may infer, of carrying off rain water. When within 
reach of a corn-field, they often also pick up grains 
of wheat, barley, or oats, and carry them to the nest 



* J. R. 







as building materials, and not for food as was be- 
lieved by the ancients. There are wonders enough 
observable in the economy of ants, without having 
recourse to fancy — wonders which made Aristotle 
extol the sagacity of bloodless animals, and Cicero 
ascribe to them not only sensation, but mind, reason, 
and memory *. iElian, however, describes, as if he 
had actually witnessed it, the ants ascending a stalk 
of growing corn, and throwing down “ the ears 
which they bit off to their companions below,” (t iv 
drjpio t uj /caTiv). Aldrovandus assures us that he 
had seen their granaries ; and others pretend that 
they shrewdly bite off the ends of the grain to pre- 
vent it from germinating t- These are fables which 
accurate observation has satisfactorily contradicted. 

But these errors, as it frequently happens, have 
contributed to a more perfect knowledge of the insects 
than we might otherwise have obtained ; for it was 
the wish to prove or disprove the circumstance of 
their storing up and feeding upon grain, which led 
Gould to make his observations on English ants ; as 
the notion of insects being produced from putrid 
carcases had before led Redi to his ingenious experi- 
ments on their generation. Yet, although it is more 
than eighty years since Gould’s book was published, 
we find the error still repeated in very respectable 
publications J. 

The coping which we above described as forming 
the exterior of the wood-ant’s nest, is only a small 
portion of the structure, which consists of a great 
number of interior chambers and galleries, with fun- 
nel-shaped avenues leading to them. The coping, 

* In formica non rnodo sensus,sed etiam mens, ratio, memoria. 

f Aldrovandus de Formicis, and Johnston, Thaumaturg. Nat. 
p. 356. 

X See Professor Paxton’s Illustr. of Scripture, i. 307. 





indeed, is one of the most essential parts, and we 
cannot follow a more delightful guide than the 
younger Huber, in detailing its formation. 

“The labourers,” he says, “of which the colony 
is composed, not only work continually on the out- 
side of their nest, but, differing very essentially from 
other species, who willingly remain in the interior, 
sheltered from the sun, they prefer living in the open 
air, and do not hesitate to carry on, even in our pre- 
sence, the greater part of their operations. 

“ To have an idea how the straw or stubble-roof is 
formed, let us take a view of the ant-hill at its origin, 
when it is simply a cavity in the earth. Some of its 
future inhabitants are seen wandering about in 
search of materials fit for the exterior work, with 
which, though rather irregularly, they cover up the 
entrance ; whilst others are employed in mixing the 
earth, thrown up in hollowing the interior, with 
fragments of wood and leaves, which are every mo- 
ment brought in by their fellow-assistants ; and this 
gives a certain consistence to the edifice, which in- 
creases in size daily. Our little architects leave here 
and there cavities, where they intend constructing 
the galleries which are to lead to the exterior, and as 
they remove in the morning the barriers placed at the 
entrance of their nest the preceding evening, the pas- 
sages are kept open during the whole time of its con- 
struction. We soon observed the roof to become con- 
vex ; but we should be greatly deceived did we con- 
sider it solid. This roof is destined to include many 
apartments or stories. Having observed the mo- 
tions of these little builders through a pane of 
glass, adjusted against one of their habitations, I 
am thence enabled to speak with some degree of 
certainty upon the manner in which they are con- 
structed. 1 ascertained, that it is by excavating, or 







mining' the under portion of their edifice, that they 
form their spacious halls, low indeed, and of heavy 
construction, yet sufficiently convenient for the use to 
which they are appropriated, that of receiving, at cer - 
tain hours of the day, the larvae and pupae. 

“ These halls have a free communication by gal- 
leries, made in the same manner. If the materials 
of which the ant-hill is composed were only inter- 
laced, they would fall into a confused heap every 
time the ants attempted to bring them into regular 
order. This, however, is obviated by their tempering 
the earth with rain-water, which, afterwards hardened 
in the sun, so completely and effectually binds to- 
gether the several substances, as to permit the re- 
moval of certain fragments from the ant-hill without 
any injury to the rest; it, moreover, strongly opposes 
the introduction of the rain. I never found, even 
after long and violent rains, the interior of the nest 
wetted to more than a quarter of an inch from the 
surface, provided it had not been previously out of 
repair, or deserted by its inhabitants. 

“ The ants are extremely well sheltered in their 
chambers, the largest of which is placed nearly in 
the centre of the building; it is much loftier than 
the rest, and traversed only by the beams that sup- 
port the ceiling ; it is in this spot that all the gal- 
leries terminate, and this forms, for the most part, 
their usual residence. 

“ As to the underground portion, it can only be 
seen when the ant-hill is placed against a declivity ; 
all the interior may be then readily brought in view, 
by simply raising up the straw-roof. The subter- 
ranean residence consists of a range of apartments, 
excavated in the earth, taking an horizontal direc- 
tion 



* Huber on Ants ; p. 15. 



 



M. P. Huber, in order to observe the operations of 
the wood-ant with more attention, transferred colo- 
nies of them to his artificial formicaries, plunging the 
feet of the stand into water to prevent their escape till 




they were reconciled to their abode, and had made 
some progress in repairing it. The preceding is a 
figure of the apparatus which he used for this pur- 
pose. 

There is this remarkable difference in the nest of 
the wood-ants, that they do not construct a long co- 
vert way as if for concealment, as the yellow and the 
brown ants do. The wood-ants are not, like them, 
afraid of being surprised by enemies, at least during 
the day, when the whole colony is either foraging in 
the vicinity or employed on the exterior. But the 
proceedings of the wood-ants at night are well wor- 
thy of notice; and when M. Huber began to study 







their economy, he directed his entire attention to 
their night proceedings. “ I remarked,” says he, 
“ that their habitations changed in appearance hourly, 
and that the diameter of those spacious avenues, 
where so many ants could freely pass each other 
during the day, was, as night approached, gradually 
lessened. The aperture, at length, totally disap- 
peared, the dome was closed on all sides, and the 
ants retired to the bottom of their nest. 

“ In further noticing the apertures of these ant- 
hills, I fully ascertained the nature of the labour of its 
inhabitants, of which I could not before even guess 
the purport ; for the surface of the nest presented 
such a constant scene of agitation, and so many in- 
sects were occupied in carrying materials in every 
direction, that the movement offered no other image 
than that of confusion. 

“ I saw then clearly that they were engaged in 
stopping up passages ; and for this purpose, they at 
first brought forward little pieces of wood, which 
they deposited near the entrance of those avenues 
they wished to close ; they placed them in the stubble ; 
they then went to seek other twigs and fragments 
of wood, which they disposed above the first, but in 
a different direction, and appeared to choose pieces 
of less size in proportion as the work advanced. 
They, at length, brought in a number of dried leaves, 
and other materials of an enlarged form, with which 
they covered the roof : an exact miniature of the art 
of our builders, when they form the covering of any 
building? Nature, indeed, seems everywhere to 
have anticipated the inventions of which we boast, 
and this is doubtless one of the most simple. 

“ Our little insects, now in safety in their nest, 
retire gradually to the interior before the last pas- 
sages are closed, one or two only remain without, or 









concealed behind the doors on guard, whilst the rest 
either take their repose, or engage in different occu- 
pations in the most perfect security. I was impatient 
to know what took place in the morning upon these 
ant-hills, and therefore visited them at an early 
hour. I found them in the same state in which I 
had left them the preceding evening. A few ants 
were wandering about on the surface of the nest, 
some others issued from time to time from under the 
margin of their little roofs formed at the entrance of 
the galleries : others afterwards came forth, who be- 
gan removing the wooden bars that blockaded the 
entrance, in which they readily succeeded. This 
labour occupied them several hours. The passages 
were at length free, and the materials with which 
they had been closed, scattered here and there over 
the ant-hill. Every day, morning and evening, 
during the fine weather, I was a witness to similar 
proceedings. On days of rain the doors of all the 
ant-hills remained closed. When the sky was cloudy 
in the morning, or rain was indicated, the ants, who 
seemed to be aware of it, opened but in part their 
several avenues, and immediately closed them when 
the rain commenced*.” 

The galleries and chambers which are roofed in 
as thus described, are very similar to those of the 
mason-ants, being partly excavated in the earth, and 
partly built with the clay thence procured. It is in 
these they pass the night, and also the colder months 
of the winter, when they become torpid or nearly 
so, and of course require not the winter granaries of 
corn with which the ancients fabulously furnished 
them. 



* Huber on Ants, p. 11. 



carpenter-ants. 







Carpenter-Ants. 

The ants that work in wood perform much more 
extensive operations than any of the other carpenter 
insects which we have mentioned. Their only tools, 
like those of bees and wasps, are their jaws or man- 
dibles ; but though these may not appear so curiously 
constructed as the ovipositor file of the tree-hopper 
( Cicadee ), or the rasp and saw of the saw-flies ( Ten - 
thredincs ), they are no less efficient in the perform- 
ance of what is required. Among’ the carpenter-ants 
the emmet or jet-ant (F. fuliginosa ) holds the first 
rank, and is easily known by being rather less in 
size than the wood-ant, and by its fine shining black 
colour. It is less common in Britain than some of 
the preceding, though its colonies may occasionally 
be met with in the trunks of decaying oak or willow 
trees in hedges. 

“ The labourers,” says Huber, “ of this species, 
work always in the interior of trees, and are desirous 
of being screened from observation ; thus every hope 
on our part is precluded of following them in their 
several occupations. I tried every expedient I could 
devise to surmount this difficulty ; I endeavoured to 
accustom these ants to live and work under my in- 
spection, but all my efforts were unsuccessful ; they 
even abandoned the most considerable portion of 
their nest to seek some new asylum, and spurned the 
honey and sugar which I offered them for nourish- 
ment. I was now, by necessity, limited to the in- 
spection only of their edifices ; but by decomposing 
some of the fragments with care, I hoped to acquire 
some knowledge of their organization. 

“ On one side I found horizontal galleries, hidden 
in great part by their walls, which follow the circular 
direction of the layers of the wood ; and on an- 
other, parallel galleries, separated by extremely thin 





partitions, having no communication except by a 
few oval apertures. Such is the nature of these 
works, remarkable for their delicacy and lightness. 

“ In other fragments I found avenues which opened 
laterally, including portions of walls and transverse 
partitions, erected here and there within the galleries, 
so as to form separate chambers. When the work 
is further advanced, round holes are always observed, 
encased, as it were, between two pillars cut out in the 
same wall. These holes in course of time become 
square, and the pillars, originally arched at both 
ends, are worked into regular columns by the chisel 
of our sculptors. This, then, is the second specimen 
of their art. This portion of the edifice will probably 
remain in this state. 

“ But in another quarter are fragments differently 
wrought, in which these same partitions, pierced 
now in every part, and hewn skilfully, are trans- 
formed into colonnades, which sustain the upper 
stories, and leave a free communication throughout 
the whole extent. It can readily be conceived, how 
parallel galleries, hollowed out upon the same plan, 
and the sides taken down, leaving only from space 
to space what is necessary to sustain their ceilings, 
may form an entire story ; but as each has been 
pierced separately, the flooring cannot be very level : 
this, however, the ants turn to their advantage, since 
these furrows are better adapted to retain the larvae 
that may be placed there. 

“ The stories constructed in the great roots offer 
greater irregularity than those in the very body of the 
tree, arising either from the hardness and interlacing 
of the fibres, which renders the labour more difficult, 
and obliges the labourers to depart from their accus- 
tomed manner, or from their not observing in the 
extremities of their edifice the same arrangement as 
in the centre ; whatever it be, horizontal stories and 








Portion of a tree , ivith chambers and galleries chiselled out by Jet- Ants. 

numerous partitions are still found. If the work be 
less regular, it becomes more delicate ; for the ants, 
profiting by the hardness and solidity of the mate- 
rials give to their building an extreme degree of 
lightness. I have seen fragments of from eisdit to 
ten inches in length, and of equal height, formed of 
wood as thin as paper, containing a number of apart- 
ments, and presenting the most singular appearance. 
At the entrance of these apartments, worked out 
with so much care, are very considerable openings ; 
but in place of chambers and extensive galleries, the 
layers of the wood are hewn in arcades, allowing the 
ants a free passage in every direction. These may 
be regarded as the gates or vestibules conducting to 
the several lodges*.” 

It is a singular circumstance in the structures of 
these ants, that all the wood which they carve is 
tinged of a black colour, as if it were smoked; and M. 
Huber was not a little solicitous to discover whence 
this arose. It certainly does not add to the beauty 



* Huber, p. 56. 







of their streets, which look as sombre as the most 
smoke-dyed walls in the older lanes of the metro- 
polis. M. Huber could not satisfy himself whether 
it was caused by the exposure of the wood to the 
atmosphere, by some emanation from the ants, or 
by the thin layers of wood being acted upon or de- 
composed by the formic acid. But if any or all 
of these causes operated in blackening the wood, 
we should be ready to anticipate a similar effect 
in the case of other species of ants which inhabit 
trees ; yet the black tint is only found in the exca- 
vations of the jet ant. 

We are acquainted with several colonies of the jet 
ants, — one of which, in the roots and trunk of an 
oak on the road from Lewisham to Sydenham, near 
Brockley in Kent, is so extremely populous, that the 
numbers of its inhabitants appeared to us beyond 
any reasonable estimate. None of the other colo- 
nies of this species which we have seen, appear to 
contain many hundreds. On cutting into the root 
of the before-mentioned tree, we found the vertical 
excavations of much larger dimensions, both in width 
and depth, than those represented by Huber in the 
preceding cut (page 2S1). What surprised us the 
most, was to see the tree growing vigorously and 
fresh, though its roots were chiselled in all directions 
by legions of workers, while every leaf, and every 
inch of the bark, was also crowded by parties of 
foragers. On one of the low branches we found a 
deserted nest of the white throat ( Sylvia cinerea , 
Temminck), in the cavity of which they were piled 
upon one another as close as the unhappy negroes in 
the hold of a slave ship ; but we could not discover 
what had attracted them hither. Another dense group, 
collected on one of the branches, led us to the dis- 
covery of a very singular oak gall, formed on the 
bark in the shape of a pointed cone, and crowded 







together. It is probable that the juice which they 
extracted from these galls was much to their taste*. 

Beside the jet-ant, several other species exercise 
the art of carpentry, — nay, what is more wonderful 
still, they have the ingenuity to knead up, with 
spiders’ web for a cement, the chips which they 
chisel out into a material with which they construct 
entire chambers. The species which exercise this 
singular art are the Ethiopian ( Formica nigra) and 
the yellow ant (F. Jlava) f. 

We once observed the dusky ants (F. fusca ), at 
Blackheath in Kent, busily employed in carrying out 
chips from the interior of a decaying black poplar, 
at the root of which a colony was established ; but, 
though it thence appears that this species can chisel 
wood if they choose, yet they usually burrow in the 
earth, and by preference, as we have remarked, at the 
root of a tree, the leaves of which supply them with 
food. 



Among the foreign ants, we may mention a small 
yellow ant of South America, described by Dampier, 
which seems, from his account, to construct a nest 
of green leaves. “ Their sting,” he says, “ is like 
a spark of fire ; and they are so thick among the 
boughs in some places, that one shall be covered with 
them before he is aware. These creatures have nests 
on great trees, placed on the body between the limbs: 
some of their nests are as big as a hogshead. This 
is their winter habitation ; for in the wet season they 
all repair to these their cities, where they preserve 
their eggs. In the dry season, when they leave their 
nests, they swarm all over the woodlands, for they 
never trouble the savannahs. Great paths, three or 

f Huber. 



* J. R. 







four inches broad, made by them, may be seen in 
the woods. They go out light, but bring home 
heavy loads on their backs, all of the same sub- 
stance, and equal in size. I never observed any 
thing besides pieces of green leaves, so big that I 
could scarcely see the insect for his burden ; yet 
they would march stoutly, and so many were pressing 
forward that it was a very pretty sight, for the path 
looked perfectly green with them.” 

Ants observed in New South Wales, by the gentle- 
men in the expedition under Captain Cook, are still 
more interesting. “ Some,” we are told, “are as green 
as a leaf, and live upon trees, where they build their 
nests of various sizes, between that of a man’s head 
and his fist. These nests are of a very curious struc- 
ture : they are formed by bending down several of the 
leaves, each of which is as broad as a man’s hand, 
and glueing the points of them together, so as to 
form a purse. The viscous matter used for this pur- 
pose is an animal juice which nature has enabled 
them to elaborate. Their method of first bending 
down the leaves we had no opportunity to observe ; 
but we saw thousands uniting all their strength to 
hold them in this position, while other busy multi- 
tudes were employed within, in applying this gluten 
that was to prevent their returning back. To satisfy 
ourselves that the leaves were bent and held down 
by the efforts of these diminutive artificers, we dis- 
turbed them in their work ; and as soon as they were 
driven from their stations, the leaves on which they 
were employed sprang up with a force much greater 
than we could have thought them able to conquer by 
any combination of their strength. But, though we 
gratified our curiosity at their expense, the injury did 
not go unrevenged ; for thousands immediately threw 
themselves upon us, and gave us intolerable pain with 
their stings, especially those which took possession 







of our necks and hair, from whence they were not 
easily driven. Their sting was scarcely less painful 
than that of a bee ; but, except it was repeated, the 
pain did not last more than a minute. 

“ Another sort are quite black, and their operation, 
and manner of life are not less extraordinary. Their 
habitations are the inside of the branches of a trees 
which they contrive to excavate, by working out the 
pith almost to the extremity of the slenderest twig, 
the tree at the same time flourishing as if it had no 
such inmate. When we first found the tree, we 
gathered some of the branches ; and were scarcely 
less astonished than we should have been to find 
that we had profaned a consecrated grove, where 
every tree, upon being wounded, gave signs of life ; 
for we were instantly covered with legions of these 
animals, swarming from every broken bough, and 
inflicting their stings with incessant violence. 

“ A third kind we found nested in the root of a 
plant, which grows on the bark of trees in the manner 
of mistletoe, and which they had perforated for that 
use. This root is commonly as big as a large turnip, 
and sometimes much bigger. When we cut it, we 
found it intersected by innumerable winding pas- 
sages, all filled with these animals, by which, how- 
ever, the vegetation of the plant did not appear to 
have suffered any injury. We never cut one of these 
roots that was not inhabited, though some were not 
bigger than a hazel-nut. The animals themselves 
are very small, not more than half as big as the 
common red ant in England. They had stings, but 
scarcely force enough to make them felt: they had, 
however, a power of tormenting us in an equal, if 
not in a greater degree ; for the moment we handled 
the root, they swarmed from innumerable holes, and 
running about those parts of the body that were un- 







covered, produced a titillation more intolerable than 
pain, except it is increased to great violence*.” 

The species called sugar-ants in the West Indies 
are particularly destructive to the sugar-cane, as well 
as to lime, lemon, and orange-trees, by excavating 
their nests at the roots, and so loosening the earth 
that they are frequently uprooted and blown down 
by the winds. If this does not happen, the roots are 
deprived of due nourishment, and the plants become 
sickly and die t- 



* Hawkesworth’s Account of Cook’s First Voyage, 
t Phil. Trans., xxx., p. 346. 





When we look back upon the details which we have 
given of the industry and ingenuity of numerous 
tribes of insects, both solitary and social, we are 
induced to think it almost impossible that they could 
be surpassed. The structures of wasps and bees, 
and still more those of the woocl-ant ( Formica rvfa), 
when placed in comparison with the size of the 
insects, equal our largest cities compared with the 
stature of man. But when we look at the build- 
ings erected by the white ants of tropical climates, 
all that we have been surveying dwindles into in- 
significance. Their industry appears greatly to sur- 
pass that of our ants and bees, and they are cer- 
tainly more skilful in architectural contrivances. The 
elevation, also, of their edifices is more than five 
hundred times the height of the builders. Were 
our houses built according to the same proportions, 
they would be twelve or fifteen times higher than 
the London Monument, and four or five times 
higher than the pyramids of Egypt, with corre- 
sponding dimensions in the basements of the edi- 
fices. These statements are, perhaps, necessary to 
impress the extraordinary labours of ants upon the 
mind ; for we are all more or less sensible to the 
force of comparisons. The analogies between the 
works of insects and of men are not perfect ; for in- 
sects are all provided with instruments, peculiarly 
adapted to the end which they instinctively seek, 
while man has to form a plan by progressive thought 







and upon the experience of others, and to complete 
it with tools which he also invents. 

The termites do not stand above a quarter of an inch 
high, while their nests are frequently twelve feet ; and 
Jobson mentions some which he had seen as high as 
twenty feet ; “ of compasse,” he adds, “ to contayne a 
dozen men, with the heat of the sun baked into that 
hardnesse, that we used to’hide ourselves in the ragged 
toppes of them when we took up stands to shoot at 
deere or wild beasts Bishop Heber saw a number 
of these high ant-hills in India, near the principal en- 
trance of the Sooty or Moorshedabad river. “ Many 
of them,” he says, “ were five or six feet high, and 
probably seven or eight feet in circumference at the 
base, partially overgrown with grass and ivy, and 
looking at a distance like the stumps of decayed trees. 
I think it is Ctesias, among the Greek writers, who 
gives an account, alluded to by Lucian, in his ‘ Cock,’ 
of monstrous ants in India, as large as foxes. The 
falsehood probably originated in the stupendous 
fabrics which they rear here, and which certainly 
might be supposed to be the work of a much larger 
animal than their real architect t-” Herodotus has 
a similar fable of the enormous size and brilliant ap- 
pearance of the ants of India, 

Nor is it only in constructing dwellings for them- 
selves that the termites of Africa and of other 
hot climates employ their masonic skill. Though, 
like our ants and wasps, they are almost omnivorous, 
yet wood, particularly when felled and dry, seems 
their favourite article of food ; but they have an utter 
aversion to feeding in the light, and always eat their 
way with all expedition into the interior. It thence 
would seem necessary for them either to leave the bark 
of a tree, or the outer portion of the beam or door 

* Jobson’s Gambia, in Purchas’s Pilgrims, ii., p, 1570. 
f lleber’s Journal, vol, i., p. 248. 






of a house, undevoured, or to eat in open day. 
They do neither ; but are at the trouble of construct- 
ing- g-alleries of clay, in which they can conceal 
themselves, and feed in security. In all their forag- 
ing excursions, indeed, they build covert ways, by 
which they can go out and return to their encamp- 
ment*. 

Others of the species (for there are several) in- 
stead of building galleries, exercise the art of miners, 
and make their approaches under ground, penetrating 
beneath the foundation of houses or areas, and rising 
again, either through the floors, or by entering the 
bottom of the posts that support the building, when 
they follow the course of the fibres, and make their 
way to the top, boring holes and cavities in different 
places, as they proceed. Multitudes enter the roof, 
and intersect it with pipes or galleries, formed of 
wet clay ; which serve for passages in all directions, 
and enable them more readily to fix their habitations 
in it. They prefer the softer woods, such as pine and 
fir, which they hollow out with such nicety, that they 
leave the surface whole, after having eaten away the 
inside. A shelf or plank attacked in this manner, 
looks solid to the eye, when, if weighed, it will not 
out-balance two sheets of pasteboard of the same di- 
mensions. It sometimes happens, that they carry 
this operation so far on stakes in the open air, as to 
render the bark too flexible for their purpose ; when 
they remedy the defect by plastering the whole stick 
with a sort of mortar which they make with clay ; so 
that, on being struck, the form vanishes, and the ar- 
tificial covering falls in fragments on the ground. 
In the woods, when a large tree falls from age or 
accident, they enter it on the side next the ground, 
and devour at leisure, till little more than the bark 



* Smeathman, in Phil, Trans., vol. lxxi. 





is left. But in this case they take no precaution of 
strengthening- the outward defence, but leave it in 
such a state as to deceive an eye unaccustomed to 
see trees thus gutted of their insides ; and “ you 
may as well,” says Mr. Smeathman, “ step upon a 
cloud.” It is an extraordinary fact, that when these 
creatures have formed pipes in the roof of a house, 
instinct directs them to prevent its fall, which would 
ensue from their having sapped the posts on which 
it rests ; but, as they gnaw away the wood, they fill 
up the interstices with clay, tempered to a surprising 
degree of hardness ; so that, when the house is 
pulled down, these posts are transformed from wood 
to stone. They make the walls of their galleries of 
the same composition as their nests, varying the 
materials according to their kind : one species 

using red clay, another black clay, and a third a 
woody substance, cemented with gums, as a security 
from the attacks of their enemies, particularly the 
common ant, which, being defended by a strong, 
horny shell, is more than a match for them ; and 
when it can get at them, rapaciously seizes them, 
and drags them to its nest for food for its young 
brood. If any accident breaks down part of their 
walls, they repair the breach with all speed. Instinct 
guides them to perform their office in the creation, 
by mostly confining their attacks to trees that are 
beginning to decay, or such timber as has been se- 
vered from its root for use, and would decay in time. 
Vigorous, healthy trees do not require to be de- 
stroyed, and, accordingly, these consumers have no 
taste for them*. 

M. Adanson describes the termites of Senegal as 
constructing covert ways along the surface of wood 
which they intend to attack ; but though we have no 



* Smeathman. 







reason to distrust so excellent a naturalist, in de- 
scribing what he saw, it is certain that they more 
commonly eat their way into the interior of the wood, 
and afterwards form the galleries, when they find 
that they have destroyed the wood till it will no 
longer atford them protection. 

But it is time that we should come to their prin- 
cipal building, which may, with some propriety, be 
called a city ; and, according to the method we have 
followed in other instances, we shall trace their la- 
bours from the commencement. We shall begin 
with the operations of the species which may be ap- 
propriately termed the Warrior ( Termes fatalis, 
Linn.; T. Bellicosus, Sheath.). 




We must premise, that though they have been 
termed white ants , they do not belong to the same 
order of insects with our ants ; yet they have a 
slight resemblance to ants in their form, but more 
in their economy. Smeathman, to whom we owe 
our chief knowledge of the genus, describes them as 
consisting of kings, queens, soldiers, and workers, 
and is of opinion, that the workers are larvae, the 
soldiers nymphae, and the kings and queens the per- 
fect insects. In this opinion, he coincides with 
Sparrmann * and others ; but Latreille is inclined 

* Quoted by De Geer, vol. vii. 





to think, from what lie observed in a European 
species, ( Tennes lucifugus ,) found near Bordeaux, 
that the soldiers form a distinct race, like the neuter 
workers among bees and ants, while the working 
termites are larvae *, which are furnished with strong 
mandibles for gnawing ; when they become nymphs, 
the rudiments of four wings appear, which are fully 
developed in the perfect insects. In this state, they 
migrate to form new colonies, but the . greater number 
of them perish in a few hours, or become the prey of 
birds, and even the natives, who fry them as delicacies. 
“ I have discoursed with several gentlemen,” says 
Smeathman, “ upon the taste of the white ants, and on 
comparing notes, we have always agreed that they 
are most delicious and delicate eating. One gentle- 
man compared them to sugared marrow, another to 
sugared cream and a paste of sweet almonds j\” 

Mr. Smeathman’s very interesting paper affords us 
the most authentic materials for the further descrip- 
tion of these wonderful insects ; and we therefore 
continue partly to extract from, and partly to abridge, 
his account. 

The few pairs that are so fortunate as to survive 
the various casualties that assail them, are usually 
found by workers (larvae) which, at this season, are 
running continually on the surface of the ground, 
on the watch for them. As soon as they discover 
the objects of their search, they begin to protect 
them from their surrounding enemies, by enclosing 
them in a small chamber of clay, where they 
become the parents of a new community, and are 
distinguished from the other inhabitants of the nest, 
by the title of king and queen. Instinct directs 
the attention of these labouring insects to the pre- 
servation of their race, in the protection of this 

* Hist. Nat. Generate, vol. xiii. p. GO. 
f Smeatliman in Phil. Trans, vol. lxxi, p. 169, note, 





pail* and their offspring*. The chamber that forms 
the rudiment of a new nest, is contrived for their 
safety, but the entrances to it are too small to admit 
of their ever leaving* it ; consequently, the charge of 
the eggs devolves upon the labourers, who construct 
nurseries for their reception. These are small, irre- 
gularly-shape dchambers, placed at first round the 
apartment of the king and queen, and not exceeding 
the size of a hazel-nut ; but, in nests of long standing, 
they are of great comparative magnitude, and dis- 
tributed at a greater distance. The receptacles for 
hatching the young are all composed of wooden ma- 
terials, apparently joined together with gum, and, by 
way of defence, cased with clay. The chamber that 
contains the king and queen, is nearly on a level with 
the surface of the ground ; and as the other apart- 
ments are formed about it, it is generally situated at 
an equal distance from the sides of the nest, and di- 
rectly beneath its conical point. Those apartments 
which consist of nurseries and magazines of provi- 
sions, form an intricate labyrinth, being separated 
by small, empty chambers and galleries, which sur- 
round them, or afford a communication from one to 
another. This labyrinth extends on all sides to the 
outward shells, and reaches up within it to two- 
thirds or more of its height, leaving an open area 
above, in the middle, under the dome, which reminds 
the spectator of the nave of an old cathedral. 
Around this are raised three or four lanre arches, 
which are sometimes two or three feet high, next 
the front of the area, but diminish as they recede 
further back, and are lost amidst the innumerable 
chambers and nurseries behind them. 

Every one of these buildings consists of two dis- 
tinct parts, the exterior and the interior. The exterior 
is one large shell, in the manner of a dome, large and 
strong enough to inclose and shelter the interior from 





the vicissitudes of the weather, and the inhabitants 
from the attacks of natural or accidental enemies. It 
is always, therefore, much stronger than the interior 
building, which is the habitable part, divided, with a 
wonderful kind of regularity and contrivance, into an 
amazing number of apartments for the residence of 
the king and queen, and the nursing of the numerous 
progeny ; or for magazines, which are always found 
well filled with stores and provisions. The hills 
make their first appearance above ground by a little 
turret or two, in the shape of sugar-loaves, which are 
run a foot high, or more. Soon after, at some little 
distance, while the former are increasing in height 
and size, they raise others, and so go on increasing 
their number, and widening them at the base, till 
their works below are covered with these turrets, of 
which they always raise the highest and largest in 
the middle, and, by filling up the intervals between 
each turret, collect them into one dome. They are 
not very curious or exact in the workmanship, except 
in making them very solid and strong ; and when, 
by their joining them, the dome is completed, for 
which purpose the turrets answer as scaffolds, they 
take away the middle ones entirely, except the tops, 
which, joined together, make the crown of the cupola, 
and apply the clay to the building of the works 
within, or to erecting fresh turrets for the purpose of 
raising the hillock still higher ; so that some part of 
the clay is probably used several times, like the 
boards and posts of a mason’s scaffolds. 

When these hills are little more than half their 
height, it is always the practice of the wild bulls to 
stand as sentinels on them, while the rest of the herd 
are ruminating below. They are sufficiently strong 
for that purpose ; and, at their full height, answer 
excellently well as places of look out ; and Mr. 
Smeathman has been, with four more, on the top 
of one of these hillocks, to watch for a vessel in 







sight. The outward shell, or dome, is not only of use 
to protect and support the interior buildings from ex- 
ternal violence and the heavy rains, but to collect and 
preserve a regular degree of the warmth and moisture 
necessary for hatching; the eg'g;s and cherishing; the 
young. The royal chamber occupied by the king 
and queen, appears to be, in the opinion of this little 
people, of the most consequence, being always situ- 
ated as near the centre of the interior building as 
possible. It is always nearly in the shape of half an 
egg, or an obtuse oval, within, and may be supposed 
to represent a long oven. In the infant state of the 
colony, it is but about an inch in length ; but in 
time will be increased to six or eight inches, or more, 
in the clear, being always in proportion to the size of 
the queen, who, increasing in bulk as in age, at 
length requires a chamber of such dimensions. 




Queen distended with eggs. 



Its floor is yjerfectly horizontal, and, in large 
hillocks, sometimes more than an inch thick of solid 
clay. The roof also, which is one solid and well- 
turned oval arch, is generally of about the same 
solidity, but in some places it is not a quarter of an 
inch thick, on the sides where it joins the floor, and 
where the doors or entrances are made level with it, 
at nearly equal distances from each other. These 
entrances will not admit any animal larger than the 
soldiers or labourers , so that the king and the queen 







(who is, at full size, a thousand times the weight of 
a king) can never possibly go out, but remain close 
prisoners. 

The royal chamber, if in a large hillock, is sur- 
rounded by a countless number of others, of different 
sizes, shapes, and dimensions ; but all of them arched 
in one way or another — sometimes elliptical or oval. 
These either open into each other, or communicate 
by passages as wide, and are evidently made for the 
soldiers and attendants, of whom great numbers are 
necessary, and always in waiting. These apartments 
are joined by the magazines and nurseries. The former 
are chambers of clay, and are always well filled with 
provisions, which, to the naked eye, seem to consist 
of the raspings of wood, and plants which the ter- 
mites destroy ; but are found by the microscope to be 
principally the gums or inspissated juices of plants. 
These are thrown together in little masses, some of 
which are finer than others, and resemble the sugar 
about preserved fruits ; others are like tears of gum, 
one quite transparent, another like amber, a third 
brown, and a fourth quite opaque, as we see often in 
parcels of ordinary gums. These magazines are 
intermixed with the nurseries, which are buildings 
totally different from the rest of the apartments ; for 
these are composed entirely of wooden materials, 
seemingly joined together with gums. Mr. Smeath- 
man calls them the nurseries, because they are inva- 
riably occupied by the eggs and young ones, which 
appear at first in the shape of labourers, but white 
as snow. These buildings are exceedingly compact, 
and divided into many very small irregular-shaped 
chambers, not one of which is to be found of half an 
inch in width. They are placed all round, and as 
near as possible to the royal apartments. 

When the nest is in the infant state, the nurseries 
are close to the royal chambers ; but as, in process 







of time, the queen enlarges, it is necessary to enlarge 
the chamber for her accommodation ; and as she 
then lays a greater number of eggs, and requires a 
greater number of attendants, so it is necessary to 
enlarge and increase the number of the adjacent 
apartments ; for which purpose the small nurseries 
which are first built are taken to pieces, rebuilt a 
little further of a size larger, and the number of 
them increased at the same time. Thus they conti- 
nually enlarge their apartments, pull down, repair, 
or rebuild, according to their wants, with a degree of 
sagacity, regularity, and foresight, not even imitated 
by any other kind of animals or insects. 

All these chambers, and the passages leading to 
and from them, being arched, they help to support 
each other; and while the interior large arches prevent 
them from falling into the centre, and keep the area 
open, the exterior building supports them on the out- 
side. There are, comparatively speaking, few open- 
ings into the great area, and they, for the most part, 
seem intended only to admit into the nurseries that 
genial warmth which the dome collects. The interior 
building, or assemblage of nurseries, chambers, &c., 
has a flatfish top or roof, without any perforation, 
which would keep the apartments below dry, in case 
through accident the dome should receive any injury, 
and let in water ; and it is never exactly fiat and 
uniform, because the insects are always adding to it 
by building more chambers and nurseries ; so that 
the division or columns between the future arched 
apartments, resemble the pinnacles on the fronts of 
some old buildings, and demand particular notice, as 
affording one proof that for the most part the in- 
sects project their arches, and do not make them by 
excavation. The area has also a flatfish floor, which 
lies over the royal chamber, but sometimes a good 
height above it, having nurseries and magazines 







between. It is likewise waterproof, and contrived to 
let the water off if it should get in, and run over by 
some short way into the subterraneous passages, 
which run under the lowest apartments in the hill in 
various directions, and are of an astonishing size, 
being wider than the bore of a great cannon. One 
that Mr. Smeathman measured was perfectly cylin- 
drical, and thirteen inches in diameter. These sub- 
terraneous passages, or galleries, are lined very thick 
with the same kind of clay of which the hill is com- 
posed, and ascend the inside of the outward shell in 
a spiral manner ; and winding round the whole 
building up to the top, intersect each other at dif- 
ferent heights, opening either immediately in the 
dome in various places, and into the interior build- 
ing, the new turrets, &c., or communicating with 
them by other galleries of different diameters, either 
circular or oval. 

From every part of these large galleries are va- 
rious small covert ways, or galleries leading to differ- 
ent parts of the building. Under ground there are 
a great many that lead downward by sloping de- 
scents, three and four feet perpendicular among the 
gravel, whence the workers cull the finer parts, 
which, being kneaded up in their mouths to the con- 
sistence of mortar, becomes that solid clay or stone 
of which their hills and all their buildings, except 
their nurseries, are composed. Other galleries 
again ascend, and lead out horizontally on every 
side, and are carried under ground near to the sur- 
face a vast distance : for if all the nests are destroyed 
within a hundred yards of a house, the inhabitants 
of those which are left unmolested farther off, will 
still carry on their subterraneous galleries, and, in- 
vading it by sap and mine, do great mischief to the 
goods and merchandizes contained in it. 

It seems there is a degree of necessity for the gal- 







leries miclev the hills being thus large, since they are 
the great thoroughfares for all the labourers and sol- 
diers going forth or returning, whether fetching clay, 
wood, water, or provisions ; and they are certainly 
well calculated for the purposes to which they are 
applied by the spiral slope which is given them ; 
for if they were perpendicular, the labourers would 
not be able to carry on their building with so much 
facility, as they ascend a perpendicular with great 
difficulty, and the soldiers can scarcely do it at all. 
It is on this account that sometimes a road like a 
ledge is made on the perpendicular side of any part 
of the building within their hill, which is flat on the 
upper surface, and half an inch wide, and ascends 
gradually like a staircase, or like those winding roads 
which are cut on the sides of hills and mountains, 
that would otherwise be inaccessible ; by which and 
similar contrivances they travel with great facility to 
every interior part. 

This, too, is probably the cause of their building a 
kind of bridge of one great arch, which answers the 
purpose of a flight of stairs from the floor of the area 
to some opening on the side of one of the columns 
that support the great arches. This contrivance 
must shorten the distance exceedingly to those la- 
bourers who have the eggs to carry from the royal 
chamber to some of the upper nurseries, which in 
some hills would be four or five feet in the straight- 
est line, and much more if carried through all the 
winding passages leading through the inner cham- 
bers and apartments. Mr. Smeathman found one 
of these bridges, half an inch broad, a quarter of an 
inch thick, and ten inches long, making the side of an 
elliptic arch of proportionable size ; so that it is won- 
derful it did not fall over or break by its own weight 
before they got it joined to the side of the column 
above. 



a A covered way and rust of the Termites arhorum . b Section of the Hill nest of the Termites bcllicosi . 

c Hill-nest of the Termites beilicusi. 


 



It was strengthened by a small arch at the bottom 
and had a hollow or Groove all the length of th< 
upper surface, either made purposely for the inha- 









bitants to travel over with more safety, or else, which 
is not improbable, worn by frequent treading. 

Turret-Building White Ants. 

Apparently more than one species, smaller than 
the preceding, such as the Termes mordax and T. 
atrox of Smeathman, construct nests of a very dif- 
ferent form, the figures of which resemble a pillar, 
with a large mushroom for a capital. These turrets 
are composed of well-tempered black earth, and 
stand nearly three feet high. The conical mush- 
room-shaped roof is composed of the same material, 
and the brims hanc; over the column, beino; three or 
four inches wider than its perpendicular sides. Most 
of them, says Smeathman, resemble in shape the 
body of a round windmill, but some of the roofs 
have little elevation in the middle. When one of 
these turrets is completed, the insects do not after- 
wards enlarge or alter it ; but if it be found too small 




Turret Nests of JVhite Ants. One nest is represented cut through, with 
the upper part lying on the ground. 







for them, they lay the foundation of another at a few 
inches distance. They sometimes, but not often, begin 
the second before the first is finished, and a third 
before they have completed the second. Five or six 
of these singular turrets in a group may be seen in 
the thick woods at the foot of a tree. They are so 
very strongly built, that in case of violence, they will 
sooner tear up the gravel and solid heart of their 
foundation than break in the middle. When any of 
them happen to be thus thrown down, the insects 
do not abandon them ; but, using their overturned 
column as a basis, they run up another perpendicu- 
larly from it, to the usual height, fastening the under 
part at the same time to the ground, to render it the 
more secure. 

The interior of a turret is pretty equally divided 
into innumerable cells, irregular in shape, but usually 
more or less angular, generally quadrangular or 
pentagonal, though the angles are not well defined. 
Each shell has at least two entrances ; but there are 
no galleries, arches, nor wooden nurseries, as in the 
nests of the Warrior ( T. bellicosus). The two species 
which build turret nests are very different in size, 
and the dimensions of the nests differ in proportion. 

The White Ants of Trees. 

Latreille’s species of white ant ( Termes luc.ifugus , 
Rossi), formerly mentioned as found in the south of 
Europe, appear to have more the habits of the jet 
ant, described page 279, than their congeners of the 
tropics. They live in the interior of the trunks of 
trees, the wood of which they eat, and form their 
habitations of the galleries which they thus excavate. 
M. Latreille says they appear to be furnished with an 
acid for the purpose of softening the wood, the odour 
of which is exceedingly pungent. They prefer the 






part of the wood nearest to the bark, which they are 
careful not to injure, as it affords them protection. 
All the walls of their galleries are moistened with 
small globules of a gelatinous substance, similar to 
gum Arabic. They are chiefly to be found in the 
trunks of oak and pine trees, and are very numerous*. 

Another of the species ( Termes arborum), described 
by Smeathman, builds a nest on the exterior of trees, 
altogether different from any of the preceding. These 
are of a spherical or oval shape, occupying the arm 
or branch of a tree sometimes from seventy to eighty 
feet from the ground, and as large, in a few instances, 
as a sugar-cask. The composition used for a build- 
ing material is apparently similar to that used by the 
warriors for constructing their nurseries, being the 
gnawings of wood in very small particles, kneaded 
into a paste with some species of cement or glue, 
procured, as Smeathman supposes, partly from gum- 
miferous trees, and partly from themselves ; but it is 
more probable, we think, that it is wholly secreted, 
like the wax of bees, by the insects themselves. 
With this cement, whatever may be its composition, 
they construct their cells, in which there is nothing- 
very wonderful except their great numbers. They 
are very firmly built, and so strongly attached to the 
trees, that they will resist the most violent tornado. 
It is impossible, indeed, to detach them, except by 
cutting them in pieces, or sawing off the branch*, 
which is frequently done to procure the insects for 
young turkeys. (See engraving, p. 300, for a figure 
of this nest.) 

This species very often, instead of selecting the 
bough of a tree, builds in the roof or wall of a house, 
and unless observed in time and expelled, occasions 
considerable damage. It is easier, in fact, to shut 

* Latreille, Hist. Nat. Generale, tom. xiii. p. 64. 





one’s door against a fox or a thief, than to exclude 
such insidious enemies, whose aversion to light ren- 
ders it difficult to trace them even when they are 
numerous. 

If we reflect on the prodigious numbers of those 
insects, and their power and rapidity of destroying, 
we cannot but admire the wisdom of Providence in 
creating so indefatigable and useful an agent in 
countries where the decay of vegetable substances is 
rapid in proportion to the heat of the climate. We 
have already remarked that they always prefer de- 
caying or dead timber ; and it is indeed a very gene- 
ral law among insects which feed on wood to prefer 
what is unsound : the same principle holds with re- 
spect to fungi, lichens, and other parasitical plants. 

All the species of Termites are not social ; but the 
solitary ones do not, like their congeners, distinguish 
themselves in architecture. In other respects, their 
habits are more similar; for they destroy almost every 
substance, animal and vegetable. The most common 
of the solitary species must be familiar to all our 
readers by the name of wood-louse ( Tenues pulsa- 
torivm , Linn.; Atropos lignarius , Leach) — one of 
the insects which produces the ticking, supersti- 
tiously termed the death-watch. It is not so large as 
the common louse, but whiter and more slender, 
having a red mouth and yellow eyes. It lives in old 
books, the paper on walls, collections of insects and 
dried plants, and is extremely agile in its movements, 
darting, by jerks, into dark corners for the purpose 
of concealment. It does not like to run straight for- 
ward, without resting every half-second, as if to listen 
or look about for its pursuer, and at such resting 
times it is easily taken. The ticking noise is made 
by the insect beating against the wood with its head, 
and it is supposed by some to be peculiar to the fe- 
male, and to be connected with tlic laying of her eggs. 







M. Latreille, however, thinks that the wood-louse 
is only the grub of the Psocus abdominalis, in which 
case it could not lay eg’gs ; but this opinion is some- 
what questionable. Another death-watch is a small 
beetle ( Anobium tesselatum). 









“ Millions of spinning worms. 

That in their green shops weave the smooth-hair’d silk.” 

Milton’s Cumus. 



All the caterpillars of butterflies, moths, and, in 
general, of insects with four wings, are capable of 
spinning silk, of various degrees of fineness and 
strength, and differing in colour, but usually white, 
yellow, brown, black, or grey. This is not only of 
advantage in constructing nests for themselves, and 
particularly for their pupae, as we have so frequently 
exemplified in the preceding pages, but it enables 
them, the instant they are excluded from the egg, to 
protect themselves from innumerable accidents, as 
well as from enemies. If a caterpillar, for instance, 
be exposed to a gust of wind, and blown off from its 
native tree, it lets itself gently down, and breaks its 
fall, by immediately spinning a cable of silk, along 
which, also, it can reascend to its former station 
when the danger is over. In the same way, it fre- 
quently disappoints a bird that has marked it out for 
prey, by dropping hurriedly down from a branch, 
suspended to its never-failing delicate cord. The leaf- 
rollers, formerly described, have the advantage of 
other caterpillars in such cases, by being able to 
move as quickly backwards as forwards ; so that 
when a bird puts in its bill at one end of the roll, the 
insect makes a ready exit at the other, and drops 
along its thread as low as it judges convenient. We 







have seen caterpillars drop in this way from one to 
six feet or more ; and by means of their cable, which 
they are careful not to break, they climb back with 
great expedition to their former place. 

The structure of their leg's is well adapted for 
climbing up their singular rope — the six lore-legs 
being furnished with a curved claw ; while the pro- 
legs (as they have been termed) are no less fitted 
for holding them firm to the branch when they have 
regained it, being constructed on the principle of 
forming a vacuum, like the leather sucker with 
which boys lift and drag stones. The foot of the 
common fly has a similar sucker, by which it is 
enabled to w r alk on glass, and otherwise support it- 
self against gravity. The different forms of the leg 
and pro-leg of a spinning caterpillar are represented 
in the figure. 




Leg and Pro-leg of a Caterpillar, greatly magnified. 



In order to understand the nature of the appa- 
ratus by which a caterpillar spins its silk, it is to be 
recollected that its whole interior structure differs 
from that of warm-blooded animals. It has, pro- 
perly speaking, no heart, though a long tubular 
dorsal vessel , which runs along the back, and pul- 
sates from twenty to one hundred times per minute. 



 



has been called so by Malphigi and others: but 
neither Lyonnet nor Cuvier could detect any vessel 
issuing from it ; and consequently the fluid which is 
analogous to blood has no circulation. It differs also 
from the higher orders of animals in having no 
brain, the nerves running along the body being only 
united by little knobs, called ganglions. Another 
circumstance is, that it has no lungs, and does not 
breathe by the mouth, but by air-holes, or spiracles, 
eighteen in number, situated along the sides, in the 
middle of the rings, as may be seen in the following 
figure from Lyonnet : 




Caterpillar of the Goat-Moth ( Cossus ligniperda.) 



These spiracles communicate on each side with 
tubes, that have been called the wind-pipes (trachea). 
The spinning apparatus is placed near the mouth, 
and is connected with the silk-bags, which are long, 
slender, floating vessels, containing a liquid gum. 
The bags are closed at their lower extremity, become 
wider towards the middle, and more slender towards 
the head, where they unite to form the spinning-tube, 
or spinneret. The bags being in most cases longer 
than the body of the caterpillar, necessarily lie in a 
convoluted state, like the intestines of quadrupeds. 
The capacity, or rather the length, of the silk-bags, 
is in proportion to the quantity of silk required for 
spinning ; the Cossus ligniperda , for example, from 
living in the wood of trees, spins little, having a bag 
only one-fourth the length of that of the silk-worm, 
though the caterpillar is at least twice the dimensions 
of the latter. The following figure, taken from the 







admirable treatise of Lyonnet on the anatomy of the 
Cossus, will render these several organs more easily 
understood than any description. 

The spinneret itself was supposed by Reaumur to 
have two outlets for the silk ; but Lyonnet, upon 
minute dissection, found that the two tubes united 
into one before their termination ; and he also almost 
assured himself that it was composed of alternate 
slips of horny and membranaceous substance, — the 
one for pressing the thread into a small diameter, and 
the other for enlarging it at the insect’s pleasure. It 
is cut at the end somewhat like a writing-pen, though 
with less of a slope, and is admirably fitted for being 
applied to objects to which it may be required to 
attach silk. The following are magnified figures of 
the spinneret of the Cossus from Lyonnet. 




Side view of the Silk-tube. Section of the Silk-tube, magnified 22,000 times. 

“ You may sometimes have seen,” says the x\bbe 
de la Pluche, “ in the work-rooms of goldsmiths or 
gold wire-drawers, certain iron plates, pierced with 
holes of different calibres, through which they draw 
gold and silver wire, in order to render it finer. The 
silk-worm has under her mouth such a kind of instru- 
ment, perforated with a pair of holes [united into one 
on the outside *], through which she draws two drops 
of the gum that fills her two bags. These instruments 



* Lyonnet. 








Labium , or lower lip of Cossus. — a. Silk-tube. 



are like a pair of distaffs for spinning the gum into a 
silken thread. She fixes the first drop of gum that 
issues where she pleases, and then draws back her 
head, or lets herself fall, while the gum continuing 
to flow, is drawn out and lengthened into a double 
stream. Upon being exposed to the air, it imme- 
diately loses its fluidity, becomes dry, and accjuires 
consistence and strength. She is never deceived in 
adjusting the dimensions of the [united] apertures, 
or in calculating the proper thickness of the thread, 
but invariably makes the strength of it proportion- 
able to the weight of her body. 

“ It would be a very curious thing to know how 
the gum which composes the silk is separated and 
drawn off from the other juices that nourish the 
animal. It must be accomplished like the secre- 
tions formed by glands in the human body. I am 
therefore persuaded that the gum-bags of the silk- 
worm are furnished with a set of minute glands, 
which, being impregnated with gum, afford a free 
passage to all the juices of the mulberry-leaf corres- 







ponding with this glutinous matter, while they ex- 
clude every fluid of a different quality*.” When 
confined in an open glass vessel, the goat-moth cater- 
pillar will effect its escape, by constructing a curious 
silken ladder, as represented by Roesel. 

Caterpillars, as they increase in size, cast their 
skins as lobsters do their shells, and emerge into re- 
newed activity under an enlarged covering. Previous 
to this change, when the skin begins to gird and 
pinch them, they maybe observed to become languid, 
and indifferent to their food,. and at length they cease 
to eat, and await the sloughing of their skin. It is 
now that the faculty of spinning silk seems to be of 
great advantage to them ; for being rendered inac- 
tive and helpless by the. tightening of the old skin 
around their expanding body, they might be swept 
away by the first puff of wind, and made prey of by 
ground beetles or other carnivorous prowlers. To 
guard against such accidents, as soon as they feel 
that they can swallow no more food from being half 
choked by the old skin, they take care to secure 
themselves from danger by moorings of silk spun 
upon the leaf or the branch where they may be re- 
posing. The caterpillar of the white satin-moth 
( Leucoma salicis , Stephens) in this way draws to- 
gether with silk one or two leaves, similar to the leaf- 
rollers ( Tortricidce ), though it always feeds openly 
without any covering. The caterpillar of the puss- 
moth again, which, in its third skin, is large and 
heavy, spins a thick web on the upper surface 
of a leaf, to which it adheres till the change is 
effected. 

The most important operation, how r ever, of silk- 
spinning is performed before the caterpillar is trans- 
formed into a chrysalis, and is most remarkable in 
the caterpillars of moths and other four-winged flies, 
* Spectacle tie la Nature, vol. i. 





with the exception of those of butterflies ; for though 
these exhibit, perhaps, greater ingenuity, they seldom 
spin more than a few threads to secure the chrysalis 
from falling, whereas the others spin for it a com- 
plete envelope or shroud. We have already seen, in 
the preceding pages, several striking instances of this, 
operation, when probably for the purpose of husband- 
ing a scanty supply of silk, extraneous substances are 
worked into the texture. In the case of other cater- 
pillars, silk is the only material employed. Of this 
the cocoon of the silk-worm is the most prominent 
example, in consequence of its importance . in our 
manufactures and commerce, and on that account 
will demand from us somewhat minute details, though 
it would require volumes to incorporate all the in- 
formation which has been published on the subject. 

• - Silk-Worm. 

The silk-worm, like most other caterpillars, changes 
its skin four times during its growth. The intervals 
at which the four moultings follow each other depend 
much on climate or temperature, as well as on the 
quality and quantity of food. It is thence found, 
that if they are exposed to a high temperature, say 
from Sl° to 100° Fahrenheit, the moultings will be 
hastened ; and only five days will be consumed in 
moulting the third or fourth time, whilst those worms 
that have not been hastened take seven or eight 
days*. 

The period of the moultings is also influenced by 
the temperature in which the eggs have been kept 
during the winter. When the heat of the apartment 
has been regulated, the first moulting takes place on 
the fourth or fifth day after hatching, the second 
begins on the eighth day, the third takes up the 
thirteenth and fourteenth days, and the last occurs 

* Cours d’ Agriculture, par M. Rozier. Paris, 1801. 







on the twenty-second and twenty-third days. The 
fifth age, in such cases, lasts ten days, at the end of 
which, or thirty-two days after hatching, the cater- 
pillars attain their full growth, and ought to be three 
inches in length; but if they have not been properly 
fed, they will not be so long. 

With the age of the caterpillar, its appetite in- 
creases, and is at its maximum after the fourth moult- 
ing, when it also attains its greatest size. The silk 
gum is then elaborated in the reservoirs, while the 
caterpillar ceases to eat, and soon diminishes again 
in size and weight. This usually requires a period 
of nine or ten days, commencing from the fourth 
moulting, after which it begins to spin its shroud of 
silk. In this operation it proceeds with the greatest 
caution, looking carefully for a spot in which it may 
be most secure from interruption. 

“ We usually,” says the Abbe de la Pluche, “ give 
it some little stalks of broom, heath, or a piece of 
paper rolled up, into which it retires, and begins to 
move its head to different places, in order to fasten 
its thread on every side. All this work, though it 
looks to a bystander like confusion, is not without 
design. The caterpillar neither arranges its threads 
nor disposes one over another, but contents itself 
with distending a sort of cotton or floss to keep off 
the rain ; for Nature having ordained silk-worms to 
work under trees, they never change their method, 
even when they are reared in our houses. 

“ When my curiosity led me to know how they 
spun and placed their beautiful silk, I took one of 
them, and frequently removed the floss with which it 
first attempted to make itself a covering; and as by 
this means I weakened it exceedingly, when it at last 
became tired of beginning anew, it fastened its threads 
on the first thing it encountered, and began to spin 
very regularly in my presence, bending its head up 







and down, and crossing- to every side. It soon con- 
fined its movements to a very contracted space, and, by 
degrees, entirely surrounded itself with silk ; and the 
remainder of its operations became invisible, though 
these may be understood from examining the work 
after it is finished. In order to complete the struc- 
ture, it must draw out of the gum-bag a more deli- 
cate silk, and then with a stronger gum bind all the 
inner threads over one another. 

“ Here, then, are three coverings entirely differ- 
ent, which afford a succession of shelter. The outer 
loose silk, or floss, is for keeping off the rain ; the 
fine silk in the middle prevents the wind from causing 
injury ; and the glued silk, which composes the 
tapestry of the chamber where the insect lodges, re- 
pels both air and water, and prevents the intrusion 
of cold. 

“ After building her cocoon, she divests herself of 
her fourth skin, and is transformed into a chrysalis, 
and subsequently into a moth ( Bombyoc mori), when, 
without saw or centre-bit, she makes her way through 
the shell, the silk, and the floss ; for the Being who 
teaches her how to build herself a place of rest, where 
the delicate limbs of the moth may be formed without 
interruption, instructs her likewise how to open a 
passage for escape. 

“ The cocoon is like a pigeon’s egg, and more 
pointed at one end than the other ; and it is remark- 
able that the caterpillar does not interweave its silk 
towards the pointed end, nor apply its glue there as 
it does in every other part*, by bending itself all 
around with great pliantness and agility : what is 
more, she never fails, when her labour is finished, to 
fix her head opposite to the pointed extremity. The 
reason of her taking this position is, that she has 



* This is denied by recent observers. 

 



purposely left this part less strongly cemented, and 
less exactly closed. She is instinctively conscious 
that this is to be the passage for the perfect insect 
which she carries in her bowels, and has therefore 
the additional precaution never to place this pointed 
extremity against any substance that might obstruct 
the moth at the period of its egress. 

“ When the caterpillar has exhausted herself to 
furnish the labour and materials of the three cover- 
ings, she loses the form of a worm, her spoils drop 
all around the chrysalis ; first throwing off her 
skin, with the head and jaws attached to it, and the 
new skin hardening into a sort of leathery consist- 
ence. Its nourishment is already in its stomach, and 
consists of a yellowish mucus, but gradually the rudi- 
ments of the moth unfold themselves, — the wings, 
the antennee, and the legs becoming solid. In about 
a fortnight or three weeks, a slight swelling in the 
chrysalis may be remarked, which at length produces 
a rupture in the membrane that covers it, and by 
repeated efforts the moth bursts through the leathery 
envelope into the chamber of the cocoon. 

“ The moth then extends her antennae, together 
with her head and feet, towards the point of the cone, 
which not being thickly closed up in that part gra- 
dually yields to her efforts ; she enlarges the opening, 
and at last comes forth, leaving at the bottom of the 
cone the ruins of its former state — namely, the head 
and entire skin of the caterpillar, which bear some 
resemblance to a heap of foul linen * ” 

Reaumur was of opinion that the moth makes use 
of its eyes as a file, in order to effect its passage 
through the silk; while Malpighi, Peck, and others, 
believe that it is assisted by an acid which it dis- 
charges in order to dissolve the gum that holds the 



* Spectacle de la Nature, vol. i. 







fibres of the silk together (see p. 195). Mr. Swayne 
denies that the threads are broken at all, either by 
filing or solution ; for he succeeded in unwinding a 
whole cocoon from which the moth had escaped. The 
soiling of the cocoon by a fluid, however, we may 
remark, is no proof of the acid ; for all moths and 
butterflies discharge a fluid when they assume wings, 
whether they be inclosed in a cocoon or not ; but 
it gives no little plausibility to the opinion, that “ the 
end of the cocoon is observed to be wetted for an 
hour, and sometimes several hours, before the moth 
makes its way out Other insects employ different 
contrivances for escape, as we have already seen, and 
shall still further exemplify. 

It is the middle portion of the cocoon, after re- 
moving the floss or loose silk on the exterior, which 
is used in our manufactures ; and the first prepara- 
tion is to throw the cocoons into warm water, and 
stir them about with twigs, to dissolve any slight 
gummy adhesions which may have occurred when 
the caterpillar was spinning. The threads of several 
cones, according to the strength of the silk wanted, 
are then taken and wound off upon a reel. The 
refuse, consisting of what we may call the tops and 
bottoms of the cones, are not wound, but carded, 
like wool or cotton, in order to form coarser fabrics. 
We learn from the fact of the cocoons being gene- 
rally unwound without breaking the thread, that the 
insect spins the whole without interruption. It is 
popularly supposed, however, that if it be disturbed 
during the operation by any sort of noise, it will 
take alarm, and break its thread ; but Latreille says 
this is a vulgar error f. 

* Count Daudolo’s Art of Rearing' Silk-Worms, Eng. Transl. 
p. 21 5. 

f On a tort de croire que le bruit nuise a ces insectes. Hist. 
Nat, General., vol. xiii,, p, 170. 







The length of the unbroken thread in a cocoon 
varies from six hundred to a thousand feet ; and as 
it is all spun double by the insect, it will amount to 
nearly two thousand feet of silk, the whole of which 
does not weigh above three grains and a half: five 
pounds of silk from ten thousand cocoons is consi- 
derably above the usual average. When we consider, 
therefore, the enormous quantity of silk which is 
used at present, the number of worms employed in 
producing it will almost exceed our comprehension. 
The manufacture of the silk, indeed, gives employ- 
ment, and furnishes subsistence, to several millions 
of human beings ; and we may venture to say, that 
there is scarcely an individual in the civilized world 
who has not some article made of silk in his pos- 
session. 

In ancient times, the manufacture of silk was 
confined to the East Indies and China, where the 
insects that produce it are indigenous. It was 
thence brought to Europe in small quantities, and in 
early times sold at so extravagant a price, that it was 
deemed too expensive even for royalty. The Emperor 
Aurelian assigned the expense as a reason for re- 
fusing his empress a robe of silk ; and our own 
James I., before his accession to the crown of Eng- 
land, had to borrow of the Earl of Mar a pair of 
silk stockings to appear in before the English am- 
bassador, — a circumstance which probably led him to 
promote the cultivation of silk in England*. The Ro- 
man authors were altogether ignorant of its origin, — 
some supposing it to be grown on trees, as hair 
grows on animals, — others that it was produced by a 
shell-fish similar to the mussel, which is known to 
throw out threads for the purpose of attaching itself 
to rocks, — others that it was the entrails of a sort of 



* Shaw’s Gen. Zoology, vol. vi. 







spider, which was fed for four years with paste, and 
then with the leaves of the green-willow, till it burst 
with fat, — and others that it was the produce of a 
worm which built nests of clay and collected wax. 
The insect was at leng'th spread into Persia; and 
eggs were afterwards, at the instance of the Emperor 
J ustinian, concealed in hollow canes by two monks , 
and conveyed to the isle of Cos. This emperor, in 
the sixth century, caused them to be introduced into 
Constantinople, and made an object of public utility. 
They were thence successively cultivated in Greece, in 
Arabia, in Spain, in Italy, in France, and in all places 
where any hope could be indulged of their succeed- 
ing. In America, the culture of the silk-worm was 
introduced into Virginia in the time of James I., who 
himself composed a book of instructions on the sub- 
ject, and caused mulberry-trees and silk-worm’s egg 
to be sent to the colony. In Georgia, also, lands 
were granted on condition of planting one hundred 
white mulberry-trees on every ten acres of cleared 
land *. 

The growth of the silk-worm has also been tried, 
but with no great success, in this country. Evelyn 
computed that one mulberry-tree would feed as many 
silk-worms annually as would produce seven pounds 
of silk. “ According to that estimate,” says Barham t, 
“ the two thousand trees already planted in Chelsea 
Park (which take up one-third of it) will make 
14,0001bs. weight of silk; to be commonly worth but 
twenty shillings a pound, those trees must make 
<£1.4,000 per annum.” During the last century, some 
French refugees in the south of Ireland made con- 
siderable plantations of the mulberry, and had begun 

* North American Review, Oct. 1828, p.449. 

f Essay on the .Silk-Worm, p. 95. London, 1719. 






the cultivation of silk with every appearance of 
success ; but since their removal the trees have been 
cut down*. In the vicinity of London, also, a 
considerable plantation of mulberry-trees were pur- 
chased by the British, Irish, and Colonial Silk 
Company in 1825 ; but we have not learned whether 
this Company have any active measures now in 
operation. 

The manufacture of silk was introduced into this 
country in 1718, at Derby, by Mr. John Lombe, who 
travelled into Italy to obtain the requisite informa- 
tion ; but so jealous were the Italians of this, that 
according to some statements which have obtained 
belief, he fell a victim to their revenge, having been 
poisoned at the early age of twenty-nine t- 

There are not only several varieties of the common 
silk-worm ( Bombyx mori ), but other species of ca- 
terpillars, which spin silk capable of being manufac- 
tured, though not of so good qualities as the common 
silk. None of our European insects, however, seem 
to be well fitted for this purpose, though it has been 
proposed by Fabricius and others to try the crimson 
under-wing ( Catocala sponsa, Schrank), &c. M. 
Latreille quotes from the ‘ Recreations of Natural 
History,’ by Wilhelm, the statement that the cocoons 
of the emperor-moth ( Saturnia pcmonia) had been 
successfully tried in Germany, by M. Wentzel Hegeer 
de Berchtoldsdorf, under an imperial patent. 

Emperor-Moth. 

The emperor-moth, indeed, is no less w r orthy of 
our attention with respect to the ingenuity of its ar- 
chitecture, than the beauty of its colours, and has 

* Preface to Dandolo on the Silk-Worm, Eng. Transl. p. xiii. 

-{¦ Glover’s Directory of the County of Derby, introd. p. xvi. 







consequently attracted the attention of every Ento- 
mologist. The caterpillar feeds on fruit-trees and 
on the willow, and spins a cocoon, in form of a Flo- 
rence flask, of strong silk, so thickly woven, that it 
appears almost like damask or leather. It differs 
from most other cocoons in not being closed at the 
upper or smaller end, which terminates in a narrow 
circular aperture, formed by the convergence of little 
bundles of silk, gummed together, and almost as 
elastic as whalebone. In consequence of all these 
terminating in needle-shaped points, the entrance of 
depredators is guarded against, upon the prin- 
ciple which prevents the escape of a mouse from a 
wire trap. The insect, however, not contented with 
this protection, constructs another in form of a 
canopy or dome, within the external aperture, so as 
effectually to shield the chrysalis from danger. We 
have formerly remarked (page 192) that the cater- 
pillar of the JEgeria asiliformis of Stephens, in a si- 
milar way did not appear to be contented with a co- 
vering of thin wood, without an additional bonnet of 
brown wax. The cocoon of the emperor-moth, though 




* Cucoonsaf the Emperor-moth cut open tu show their structure. 



 



thus in some measure impenetrable from without, is 
readily opened from within ; and when the moth 
issues from its pupa case, it easily makes its way 
out without either the acid or eye-files ascribed to the 
silk-worm. The elastic silk gives way upon being- 
pushed from within, and when the insect is fairly 
out, it shuts again of its own accord, like a door 
with spring hinges, — a circumstance which at first 
puzzled Roesel not a little when he saw a fine large 
moth in his box, and the cocoon apparently in the 
same state as when he had put it there. Another 
naturalist conjectures that the converging threads are 
intended to compress the body of the moth as it 
emerges, in order to force the fluids into the nervures 
of the wings ; for when he took the chrysalis pre- 
viously out of the cocoon, the wings of the moth never 
expanded properly*. Had he been much conversant 
with breeding insects, he would rather, we think, 
have imputed this to some injury which the chrysalis 
had received. We have witnessed the shrivelling of 
the wings which he alludes to, in many instances, and 
not unfrequently in butterflies which spin no cocoon. 
The shrivelling, indeed, frequently arises from the 
want of a sufficient supply of food to the caterpillar 
in its last stage, occasioning a deficiency in the fluids. 

The elasticity of the cocoon is not peculiar to the 
emperor-moth. A much smaller insect, the green 
cream-border-moth ( Tortrix clilorcina ) before men- 
tioned (page 170), for its ingenuity in bundling up 
the expanding leaves of the willow, also spins an 
elastic shroud for its chrysalis, of the singular shape 
of a boat with the keel uppermost. Like the cater- 
pillar of Pyrcilis strigulalis (page 19S), whose build- 
ing, though of different materials, is exactly of the 
same form, — it first spins two approximating walls 



* Meinecken, quoted by Kirby and Spence, in. 2S0. 







of whitish silk, of the form required, and when 
these are completed, it draws them forcibly together 
with elastic threads, so placed as to retain them 
closely shut. The passage of the moth out of this 
cocoon might have struck Roesel as still more mar- 
vellous than that of his emperor, in which there was 
at least a small opening ; while in the boat cocoon 
there is none. We have now before us two of these, 
which we watched the caterpillars through the pro- 
cess of building, in the summer of 1828, and from 
one only a moth issued, — the other, as often happens, 
having died in the chrysalis. But what is most re- 
markable, it is impossible by the naked eye to tell 
which of these two has been opened by the moth, so 
neatly has the joining been finished*. 

Some species of moths spin a very slight silken 
tissue for their cocoons, being apparently intended 
more to retain them from falling, than to afford pro- 
tection from other accidents. The gipsey-moth 
( Hypogymna dispar ), rare in most parts of Britain, 
is one of these. It selects for its retreat a crack in 
the bark of the tree upon which it feeds, and over 
this spins only a few straggling threads. We found 
last summer (1829), in the hole of an elm-tree in the 
Parc at Brussels, a group of half a dozen of these, 
that did not seem to have spun any covering at all, 
but trusted to a curtain of moss ( Hypna ) which 
margined the entrancef. In a species nearly allied to 
this, the yellow-tussock ( Dasychira pudibunda , Ste- 
phens), the cocoon, one of which we have now before 
us, is of a pretty close texture, and interwoven with 
the long hairs of the caterpillar itself (see the right 
hand top figure, page 20), which it plucks out piece- 
meal during the process of building, — as is also done 



* J. R. 



f J. R. 







by the vapourer ( Orgyia antiqua, IIubner), and 
many others. 

These are additional instances of the remarks we 
formerly made, that caterpillars which spin a slight 
web are transformed into perfect insects in a much 
shorter period than those which spin more substantial 
ones. Thus the cream-spot tyger ( Arctia villica, 
Stephens) lies in chrysalis only three weeks, and 
therefore does not require a strong web. It is figured 
below, along with another, which is still slighter, 
though more ingeniously woven, being regularly 
meshed like net-work. 



Cocoon of Arctia villica. 





Net work cocoon. 



A very prettily-netted cocoon is constructed by the 
grub of a very small grey weevil ( Hypera Rumicis ), 
which is not uncommon in July, on the seed spikes 
of docks (Rumices). This cocoon is globular, and 
not larger than a garden pea, though it appears to 







be very large in proportion to the pupa of the insect, 
reminding us not a little of the carved ivory balls 
from China. The meshes of the net- work are also 
large, but the materials , are strong and of a waxy 
consistence. Upon remarking that no netting was 
ever spun over the part of the plant to which the 
cocoon was attached, we endeavoured to make them 
spin cocoons perfectly globular, by detaching them 
when nearly finished ; but though we tried four or 
five in this way, we could not make them add a sin- 
gle mesh after removal, all of them making their 
escape through the opening, and refusing to re-enter 
in order to complete their structure*. 

The silk, if it may be so termed, spun by many 
species of larvae is of a still stronger texture than the 
waxy silk of the little weevil just mentioned. We 
recently met with a remarkable instance of this at 
Lee, in the cocoons of one of the larger ich- 
neumons ( Ophion Vinulce? Stephens), inclosed 
in that of a puss-moth ( Cerura Vinula ) — itself re- 
markable for being composed of sand as well as wood, 
the fibres of which had been scooped out of the under- 
ground cross-bar of an old paling, to which it was 
attached. But the most singular portion of this was 
the junction of the outer wall with the edges of the 
hollow thus scooped out, which was formed of fibres 
of wood placed across the fibres of the bar nearly at 
right angles, and strongly cemented together, as if 
to form a secure foundation for the building. 

In this nest were formed, surreptitiously introduced 
into the original building, five empty cells of a black 
colour, about an inch long, and a sixth of an inch in 
diameter ; nearly cylindrical in form, but somewhat 
flattened; vertical and parallel to one another, though 
slightly curved on the inner side. The cells are com- 



2 F 



* J.R. 



 



posed of strong and somewhat coarse fibres, more 
like the carbonized rootlets of a tree than silk, and 
resembling in texture a piece of coarse milled cloth 
or felt, such as is used for the bases of plated hats. 
It is worthy of remark, that all these cells opened 



Nest of Puss-Moth, inclosing Jive cocoons of an Ichneumon. 

Natural size. 




towards one end, as if the caterpillars which con- 
structed them had been aware that the wall of the 
puss-moth, in which the flies would have to make a 
breach, was very hard, and would require their 
united elforts to effect an escape. The importance 
of such a precaution will appear more strikingly, 
when we compare it with the instance formerly men- 
tioned (page 195), in which only one ichneumon 
had been able to force its way out*. 

It appears indispensable to some grubs to be con- 
fined within a certain space, in order to construct 
their cocoons. We saw this well exemplified in the 
instance of a grub of one of the mason-bees (Osmia 
bicornis ), which we took from its nest, and put into 



* J. R. 







a box, with the pollen paste which the mother bee 
had provided for its subsistence. (See pages 40, 41.) 
When it had completed its growth, it began to spin, 
but in a very awkward manner — attaching threads, 
as if at random, to the bits of pollen which re- 
mained undevoured, and afterwards tumbling about 
to another part of the box, as if dissatisfied with 
what it had done. It sometimes persevered to spin 
in one place till it had formed a little vaulted wall ; 
but it abandoned at the least three or four of these 
in order to begin others, till at length, as if com- 
pelled by the extreme urgency of the stimulus of its 
approaching change, it completed a shell of shining 
brown silk, woven into a close texture. Had the 
grub remained within the narrow clay cell built for it 
by the mother bee, it would, in all probability, not 
have thus exhausted itself in vain efforts at building, 
which were likely to prevent it from ever arriving at 
the perfect state — a circumstance which often happens 
in the artificial breeding of insects*. 

Beside silk, the cocoons of many insects are 
composed of other animal secretions, intended to 
strengthen or otherwise perfect their texture. We 
have already seen that some caterpillars pluck off 
their own hair to interweave amongst their silk : 
there are others which produce a peculiar substance 
for the same purpose. The lackey caterpillar ( Clisio - 
campa neustria , Curtis) in this manner lines its 
cocoon with pellets of a downy substance, resem- 
bling little tufts of the flowers of sulphur. The 
small egger, again ( Eriogaster lanestris, Germar), 
can scarcely be said to employ silk at all, — the 
cocoon being of a uniform texture, looking, at 
first sight, like dingy Paris plaster, or the shell 
of a pheasant’s egg, but upon being broken, and 



* J. R. 











inspected narrowly, a few threads of silk may be 
seen interspersed through the whole. In size, it is 
not larger than the egg of the gold-crested wren. It 
has been considered by Brahm a puzzling circum- 
stance, that this cocoon is usually perforated with 
one or two little holes, as if made by a pin from 
without; and Kirby and Spence tell us that their 
use has not been ascertained*. May they not be left as 
air-holes for the included chrysalis, as the close texture 
of the cocoon might, without this provision, prove 
fatal to the animal? Yet, on comparing one of these 
with a similar cocoon of the large egger-moth ( La - 
siocampa Quercus ), we find no air-holes in the latter, 
as we might have been led to expect from the 
closeness of its texture. We found a cocoon of a 
saw-fly ( Tricliiosoma ), about the same size as that 
of the egger, attached to a hawthorn twig, in a 
hedge at New Cross, Deptford, but of a leathery 
texture, and, externally, exactly the colour of the 
bark of the tree. This was also without air-holes. 
The egger, we may remark, unlike the dock-weevil 
or the bee-grub just mentioned, can work her co- 
coon without any point of attachment. We had a 
colony of these caterpillars in the summer of 1825, 
brought from Epping Forest, and saw several of 
them work their cocoons, and we could not but ad- 
mire the dexterity with which they avoided filling up 
the little pin holes. The supply of their building 
material was evidently measured out to them in the 
exact quantity required; for when we broke down a 
portion of their wall, by way of experiment, they did 
not make it above half the thickness of the previous 
portion, though they plainly preferred having a thin 
wall to leaving the breach unclosed f. 

Several species of caterpillars that spin only silk, 

* Brahm’slns. Nat. 289, and Kirby and Spence’s Intr. iii. 223. 

t J. R. 







are social, like some of those we formerly mentioned, 
which unite to form a common tent of leaves (see 
pages 172, 3). The most common instance of this, is 
in the caterpillars which feed on the nettle — the small 
tortoise-shell ( Vanessa urticce ), and the peacock’s eye 
(V.1'6.) Colonies of these may be seen, after Mid- 
summer, on almost every clump of nettles, inhabiting 
a thin web of an irregular oval shape, from which 
they issue out to feed on the leaves, always returning 
when their appetite is satisfied, to assist their com- 
panions in extending their premises. Other ex- 
amples, still more conspicuous from being seen on 
fruit-trees and in hedges, occur in the caterpillars of 
the small ermine-moth ( Yponomeuta padella), and 
of the lackey ( Clisiocampa neustria ), which in some 
years are but too abundant, though in others they 
are seldom met with. In the summer of 1826, 
every hedge and fruit-tree around London swarmed 
with colonies of the ermine, though it has not since 
been plentiful ; and in the same way, during the 
summer of 1829, the lackeys were to be seen every 
where. We mention this irregularity of appearance, 
that our readers may not disappoint themselves by 
looking for what is not always to be found. It is 
probable, that in 1830, the lackeys will be few, for, 
notwithstanding the myriads of caterpillars last 
summer, we saw only a single moth of this species, 
and out of a number of chrysalides which a young 
friend had in his nurse-boxes, not one moth was bred. 

The caterpillars of other moths, which are in some 
years very common — such as the brown-tail (Por- 
thesia auriflua ,) and the golden-tail (P. Chry- 
sorrhcea,) are also social; and, as the eggs are 
hatched late in the summer, the brood passes the 
winter in a very closely woven nest of warm silk. 
This is usually represented as composed of leaves 
which have had their pulpy parts eaten as food 

2 f 3 







by the colonists; but from minute observation of 
at least twenty of these nests in the winter of 
1828-9, we are quite satisfied that leaves are only 
an accidental, and not a necessary part of the struc- 
ture. When a leaf happens to be in the line of the 
walls of the nest, it is included ; but there is no appa- 
rent design in pressing it into the service, nor is a 
branch selected because it is leafy. On the con- 
trary, by far the greater number of these nests do not 
contain a single leaf, but are composed entirely of 
grey silk. In external form, no two of these nests 
are alike ; as it depends entirely upon the form of 
the branch. When, therefore, there is only one twig, 
it is somewhat egg-shaped ; but when there are 
several twigs, it commonly joins each, assuming an 
angular shape, as may be seen in the figure. 




Winter nest of the Social Caterpillars of the Brown-tail Moth 
(Porthesia auriflua), figured from specimen. 







This irregularity arises from the circumstance of 
each individual acting on its own account, without 
the direction or superintendence of the others. The 
interior of the structure is, for the same reason, 
more regular, being divided into compartments, each 
of which forms a chamber for one or more indi- 
viduals. Previous to the cold weather, these cham- 
bers have but slight partitions ; but before the frosts 
set in the whole is made thick and warm. 




/Pinter nests of Porthesia chrysorrhcca, one being cut open to show 
the chambers. The dots represent the egesta of the caterpillars. 

A no less remarkable winter nest, of a small spe- 
cies of social caterpillar, is described by M. Bonnet, 
which we omitted to introduce when treating of the 
Glanville fritillary (page 172). The nest in question 
is literally pendulous, being hung from the branch of 
a fruit-tree by a strong silken thread. It consists of 
one or two leaves neatly folded, and held together 






with silk, in which the caterpillars live harmoniously 
together. 




Pendulous leaf-nests, from Bonnet. 



In a recently published volume of * Travels in 
Mexico,’ we find a very remarkable account of some 
pendulous nests of caterpillars, which appear to be 
almost as curious as the nests of the card-maker 
wasps, described at p. 88. The author of these 
travels does not define the species of caterpillar, 
whose constructions excited his observation. He 
says, “ After having ascended for about an hour, we 
came to the region of oaks and other majestically 
tall trees, the names of which I could not learn. 
Suspended from their stately branches, were innu- 
merable nests, enclosed, apparently, in white paper 
bags, in the manner of bunches of grapes in Eng- 
land, to preserve them from birds and flies. I had 
the curiosity to examine one of them, which I found 
to contain numberless caterpillars. The texture is 
so strong that it is not easily torn ; and the interior 
contained a quantity of green leaves, to support the 
numerous progeny within*.” 



* Hardy’s Travels in the Interior of Mexico, p. 32. 







In all the nests of social caterpillars, care is 
taken to leave apertures for passing out and in. 
It is remarkable, also, that however far they may 
ramble from their nest, they never fail to find 
their way back, when a shower of rain or night- 
fall renders shelter necessary. It requires no great 
shrewdness to discover how they effect this ; for 
by looking closely at their track it will be found 
that it is carpeted with silk — no individual moving 
an inch without constructing such a pathway, both 
for the use of his companions and to facilitate his 
own return. All these social caterpillars, therefore, 
move more or less in processional order, each follow- 
ing the road which the first chance traveller has 
marked out with his strip of silk carpeting. 

There, are some species, however, which are more 
remarkable than others in the regularity of their pro- 
cessional marchings, particularly two which are found 
in the South of Europe, but are not indigenous in 
Britain. The one named by Reaumur the proces- 
sionary ( Cnethocampa processioned, Stephens) feeds 
upon the oak ; a brood dividing, when newly hatched, 
into one or more parties of several hundred indivi- 
duals, which afterwards unite in constructing a com- 
mon nest nearly two feet long, and from four to six 
inches in diameter. As it is not divided like that 
of the brown-tails into chambers, but consists of one 
large hall, it is not necessary that there should be 
more openings than one ; and accordingly when an 
individual goes out and carpets a path, the whole 
colony instinctively follow in the same track, though 
from the immense population they are often com- 
pelled to march in parallel files from two to six deep. 
The procession is always headed by a single cater- 
pillar ; sometimes the leader is immediately followed 
by one or two in single file, and sometimes by two 
abreast, as represented in the cut. A similar pro- 







cedure is followed by a species of social caterpillars, 
which feed on the pine in Savoy and Languedoc ; 
and though their nests are not half the size of the 
preceding, they are more worthy of notice, from the 
strong and excellent quality of their silk, which 
Reaumur was of opinion might be advantageously 
manufactured. Their nests consist of more cham- 
bers than one, but are furnished with a m ain entrance, 
through which the colonists conduct their foraging 
processions. 





Nest and order of marching of the Proccssionary Caterpillars 
of the oak (Cnethocainua urocessionea'). 




 

Modern naturalists do not rank spiders among in- 
sects, because they have no antennae, and no division 
between the head and the shoulders ; they breathe 
by leaf-shaped gills, situated under the belly, instead 
of spiracles in the sides ; have a heart connected 
with these; have eight legs instead of six ; and 
eight fixed eyes. But as spiders are popularly con- 
sidered insects, it will sufficiently suit our purpose 
to introduce them here as such. 

The apparatus by which spiders construct their 
ingenious fabrics is much more complicated than 
that which we have described, as common to the 
various species of caterpillars. Caterpillars have 
only two reservoirs for the materials of their silk ; 
but spiders, according to the dissections of M. Trevi- 
ranus, have four principal vessels, two larger and 
two smaller, with a number of minute ones at their 
base. Several small tubes branch towards the reser- 
voirs, for carrying to them, no doubt, a supply of 
the secreted material. Swammerdam describes them 
as twisted into many coils of an agate colour*. We 
do not find them coiled but nearly straight, and of a 
deep yellow colour. From these when broken, threads 
can be drawn out like those spun by the spider. 

From these little flasks or bags of gum, situated 
near the anus, and not at the mouth as in cater- 
pillars, a tube originates and terminates in the exter- 



* Hill’s Swammerdam, part i. p. 23. 



 



nal spinnerets, which may be seen by the naked eye 
in the larger spiders, in the form of five little teats 
surrounded by a circle, as represented in the figure 
below. 




Garden Spider (Epeira diadema), suspended by a thread proceeding 

from its spinneret. 

We have seen that the silken thread of a cater- 
pillar is composed of two united within the tube of 
the spinneret, but the spider’s thread would appear 
from the first view of its five spinnerets, to be quin- 
tuple, and in some species which have six teats, 
so many times more. It is not safe, however, in our 
interpretations of nature to proceed upon conjecture 
however plausible, nor to take anything for granted 
which we have not actually seen; since our inferences 
in such cases are almost certain to be erroneous. 






If Aristotle, for example, had ever looked narrowly 
at a spider when spinning, he could not have fancied, 
as he does, that the materials which it uses are 
nothing but wool stripped from its body. On look- 
ing then, with a strong magnifying glass, at the teat- 
shaped spinnerets of a spider, we perceive them 
studded with regular rows of minute bristle-like 
points, about a thousand to each teat, making in all 
from five to six thousand. These are minute tubes 
which we may appropriately term spinnerules, as 
each is connected with the internal reservoirs, and 
emits a thread of inconceivable fineness. In the 
figure below, this wonderful apparatus is represented 
as it appears in the microscope. 



Spinnerets of a Spider magnified to show the Spinnerules. 




We do not recollect that naturalists have ventured 
to assign any cause for this very remarkable multi- 
plicity of the spinnerules of spiders, so different from 
the simple spinneret of caterpillars. To us it ap- 
pears to be an admirable provision for their mode of 
life. Caterpillars neither require such strong ma- 
> terials, nor that their thread should dry as quickly. 





It is well known in our manufactures, particularly in 
rope-spinning’, that in cords of equal thickness, those 
which are composed of many smaller ones united 
are greatly stronger than those which are spun at 
once. In the instance of the spider’s thread, this 
principle must hold still more strikingly, inasmuch 
as it is composed of fluid materials that require to 
be dried rapidly, and this drying must be greatly 
facilitated by exposing so many to the air separately 
before their union, which is effected at the distance 
of about a tenth of an inch from the spinnerets. In 
the following figure, each of the threads represented 
is reckoned to contain one hundred minute threads, 
the whole forming only one of the spider’s common 
threads. 




Leeuwenhoeck, in one of his extraordinary micro- 
scopical observations on a young spider not bigger 
than a grain of sand, upon enumerating the thread- 







lets in one of its threads, calculated that it would 
require four millions of them to be as thick as a hair 
of his beard. 

Another important advantage derived by the spider 
from the multiplicity of its threadlets is, that the thread 
affords a much more secure attachment to a wall, a 
branch of a tree, or any other object, than if it were 
simple ; for, upon pressing the spinneret against the 
object, as spiders always do when they fix a thread, 
the spinnerules are extended over an area of some 
diameter, from every hair’s breadth of which a strand, 
as rope-makers term it, is extended to compound the 
main cord. The following figure exhibits this inge- 
nious contrivance. 



Those who may be curious to examine this contri- 
vance will see it best when the line is attached to 
any black object; for the threads being white are, in 
other cases, not so easily perceived. 

Shooting of the Lines. 

It has long been considered a curious, though a 
difficult investigation, to determine in what manner 






Attached cud oj a Spidei's thread magnified. 


 



spiders, seeing 1 that they are destitute of wings, 
transport themselves from tree to tree, across brooks, 
and frequently through the air itself, without any ap- 
parent starting point. On looking into the authors 
who have treated upon this subject, it is surprising 
how little there is to be met with that is new, even in 
the most recent. Their conclusions, or rather their 
conjectural opinions, are, however, worthy of notice ; 
for, by unlearning error, we the more firmly esta- 
blish truth. 

1. One of the earliest notions upon this subject 
is that of Blancanus, the commentator on Aristotle, 
which is partly adopted by Redi, by Henricus 
Regius of Utrecht, by Swammerdam*, by Leh- 
mann the mineralogist, and by Kirby and Spencef. 
“ The spider’s thread,” says Swammerdam, “ is 
generally made up of two or more parts, and 
after descending by such a thread, it ascends by 
one only, and is thus enabled to waft itself from 
one height or tree to another, even across running 
waters; the thread it leaves loose behind it being 
driven about by the wind, and so fixed to some 
other body.” “ I placed,” says Kirby, “ the large 
garden spider ( Epeira diadema ) upon a stick 
about a foot long, set upright in a vessel containing 

water It let itself drop, not by a single thread, 

but by two, each distant from the other about the 
twelfth of an inch, guided, as usual, by one of its hind 
feet, and one apparently smaller than the other. 
When it had suffered itself to descend nearly to the 
surface of the water, it stopped short, and by some 
means, which I could not distinctly see, broke off, 
close to the spinners, the smallest thread, which still 
adhering by the other end to the top of the stick, 



* Swammerdam, part i. p. 2-1. 
+ Intr. i. vol. p. 415. 







floated in the air, and was so light as to be carried 
about by the slightest breath. On approaching a 
pencil to the loose end of this line, it did not adhere 
from mere contact. I, therefore, twisted it once or 
twice round the pencil, and then drew it tight. The 
spider, which had previously climbed to the top of 
the stick, immediately pulled at it with one of its feet, 
and finding it sufficiently tense, crept along it, 
strengthening it as it proceeded by another thread, 
and thus reached the pencil.” 

We have repeatedly witnessed this occurrence, 
both in the fields, and when spiders were placed for 
experiment, as Kirby has described ; but we very 
much doubt that the thread broken is ever intended 
as a bridge cable, or that it would have been so used 
in that instance, had it not been artificially fixed and 
accidentally found again by the spider. According 
to our observations, a spider never abandons, for an 
instant, the thread which she despatches in quest of 
an attachment, but uniformly keeps trying it with 
her feet, in order to ascertain its success. We are, 
therefore, persuaded, that when a thread is broken in 
the manner above described, it is because it has been 
spun too weak, and spiders may often be seen break- 
ing such threads in the process of netting their webs*'. 

The plan, besides, as explained by these agreeable 
writers, would more frequently prove abortive than 
successful, from the cut thread not being suf- 
ficiently long. They admit, indeed, that spiders’ 
lines are often found “ a yard or two long, fastened 

to twigs of grass not a foot in height Here, 

therefore, some other process must have been 
used +.” 

2. Our celebrated English naturalist, Dr. Lister, 
whose treatise upon our native spiders has been the 

f Kirby and Spence, vol. i. Intr. p. 416. 

2 G 3 



* J.R. 






basis of every subsequent work on the subject, main- 
tains, that “ some spiders shoot out their threads in 
the same manner that porcupines do their quills ; 
that whereas the quills of the latter are entirely se- 
parated from their bodies, when thus shot out, the 
threads of the former remain fixed to their anus, as 
the sun’s rays to its body A French periodical 
writer goes a little farther, and says, that spiders 
have the power of shooting out threads, and directing 
them at pleasure, towards a determined point, 
judging of the distance and position of the object 
by some sense of which we are ignorant f. Kirby 
also says, that he once observed a small garden 
spider ( Aranea reticulata), “standing midway on a 
long perpendicular fixed thread, and an appearance 
caught” his “ eye, of what seemed to be the emission 
of threads.” “I,” therefore, he adds, “moved my 
arm in the direction in which they apparently pro- 
ceeded, and, as I had suspected, a floating thread 
attached itself to my coat, along which the spider 
crept. As this was connected with the spinners of 
the spider, it could not have been formed” by 
breaking a “secondary thread.”]; Again, in speaking 
of the gossamer-spider, he says, it “ first extends its 
thigh, shank, and foot, into a right line, and then, 
elevating its abdomen till it becomes vertical, shoots 
its thread into the air, and flies oft' from its station§.” 
Another distinguished naturalist, Mr. White of 
Selborne, in speaking of the gossamer-spider, says, 
“ every day in fine weather in autumn do I see 
these spiders shooting out their webs, and mounting 
aloft : they will go off from the finger, if you will 
take them into your hand. Last summer, one 
alighted on my book as I was reading in the par- 

* Lister, Hist. Animalia Angliae, 4to. p. 7. 
f Phil. Mag. ii. p. 275. 

+ Vol. i.Intr. p. 417. § Ibid. ii. p.339. 







lour; and running to the top of the page, and 
shooting out a web , took its departure from thence. 
But what I most wondered at was, that it went off 
with considerable velocity in a place where no air 
was stirring ; and I am sure that I did not assist it 
with my breath 

Having so often witnessed the thread set afloat 
in the air by spiders, we can readily conceive the 
way in which those eminent naturalists were led 
to suppose it to be ejected by some animal force 
acting like a syringe ; but as the statement can be 
completely disproved by experiment, we shall only at 
present ask, in the words of Swammerdam — “ how it 
can be possible that a thread so fine and slender 
should be shot out with force enough to divide and 
pass through the air ? — is it not rather probable that 
the air would stop its progress, and so entangle it 
and fit it to perplex the spider’s operations ?’*t The 
opinion, indeed, is equally improbable with another, 
suggested by Dr. Lister, that the spider can retract 
her thread within the abdomen, after it has been 
emitted De Geer§ very justly joins Swammer- 
dam in rejecting both of these fancies, which, in our 
own earlier observations upon spiders, certainly 
struck us as plausible and true. There can be no 
doubt, indeed, that the animal has a voluntary power 
of permitting the material to escape, or stopping it 
at pleasure, but this power is not projectile. 

3. “ There are many people/’ says the Abbe de la 
Pluche, “who believe that the spider flies when they see 
her pass from branch to branch, and even from one 
high tree to another ; but she transports herself in this 
manner : she places herself upon the end of a branch, 

¦ f Nat. Hist, of Selborne, vol. i. p. 327. 
f Book of Nature, part i. p. 25. 

f Hist. Anim. Angliae, 4to. 

§ Memoires, vol. vii. p. 189. 







or some projecting body, and there fastens her thread ; 
after which, with her two hind feet, she squeezes her 
dugs ( spinnerets ), and presses out one or more, 
threads of two or three ells in length, which she 
leaves to float in the air till it be fixed to some par- 
ticular place*.” Without pretending to have ob- 
served this, Swammerdam says, “ lean easily compre- 
hend how spiders, without giving themselves any 
motion, may, by only compressing their anus, spin 
out a thread, which being driven by the wind, may 
serve to waft them from one place to another f.” 
Others, proceeding upon a similar notion, give a 
rather different account of the matter. “ The spider,” 
says Bingley, “ fixes one end of a thread to the place 
where she stands, and then with her hind paws 
draws out several other threads from the nipples, 
which, being lengthened out and driven by the wind 
to some neighbouring tree or other object, are by 
their natural clamminess fixed to itj.” 

Observation gives some plausibility to the latter 
opinion, as the spider always actively uses her legs, 
though not to draw out the thread, but to ascertain 
whether it has caught upon any object. The notion 
of her pressing the spinneret with her feet must be a 
mere fancy ; at least it is not countenanced by any 
thing which we have observed. 

4. An opinion much more recondite is mentioned, if 
it was not started by M. D’lsjonval, that the floating 
of the spider’s thread is electrical. “ Frogs, cats, 
and other animals,” he says, “ are affected by natural 
electricity, and feel the change of weather; but no 
other animal more than myself and my spiders.” 
During wet and windy weather he accordingly found 
that they spun very short lines, “ but when a spider 

* Spectacle de la Nature, vol. i. 

t Boole of Nature, part i. p. 25. 

;J; Animal Biography, vol. iii. p. 475, 3rd edition. 






spins a long’ thread, there is a certainty of fine weather 
for at least ten or twelve days afterwards*.” A 
periodical writer, who signs himself Carolan t, 
fancies that in darting out her thread the spider 
emits a stream of air, or some subtile electric fluid, 
by which she guides it as if by magic. 

A living writer (Mr. John Murray), whose learn- 
ing and skill in conducting experiments give no 
little weight to his opinions, has carried these views 
considerably farther. “ The aeronautic spider,” he 
says, “ can propel its threads both horizontally 
and vertically, and at all relative angles, in mo- 
tionless air, and in an atmosphere agitated by 
winds ; nay more, the aerial traveller can even dart 
its thread, to use a nautical phrase, in the ‘ wind’s 
eye.’ My opinion and observations are based on 
many hundred experiments The entire phe- 

nomena are electrical. When a thread is propelled 
in the vertical plane, it remains perpendicular to the 
horizontal plane, always upright, and when others 
are projected at angles more or less inclined, their 
direction is invariably preserved ; the threads never 
intermingle, and when a pencil of threads is propelled, 
it ever presents the appearance of a divergent brush. 
These are electrical phenomena, and cannot be ex- 
plained but on electrical principles.” 

“ In clear, fine weather, the air is invariably 
positive ; and it is precisely in such weather that the 
aeronautic spider makes its ascent most easily and 
rapidly, whether it be in summer or in winter.” 
“ When the air is weakly positive, the ascent of the 
spider will be difficult, and its altitude extremely 
limited, and the threads propelled will be but little 
elevated above the horizontal plane. When negative 
electricity prevails, as in cloudy weather, or on the 

* Brez, Flore des Insectophiles. Notes, Supp. p. 134. 
f Thomson’s Ann. of Philosophy, vol. iii, p. 306. 







approach of rain, and the index of De Saussure’s 
hygrometer rapidly advancing towards humidity, the 
spider is unable to ascend*.” 

Mr. Murray had previously told us, that “ when 
a stick of excited sealing-wax is brought near the 
thread of suspension, it is evidently repelled ; con- 
sequently, the electricity of the thread is of a nega- 
tive character,” while “ an excited glass tube brought 
near, seemed to attract the thread, and with it, 
the aeronautic spider t.” His friend, Mr. Bowman, 
further describes the aerial spider as “ shooting out 
four or five, often six or eight, extremely fine webs 
several yards long, which waved in the breeze, 
diverging from each other like a pencil of rays.” 
One of them “ had two distinct and widely diverging 
fasciculi of webs,” and “ a line uniting them would 
have been at right angles to the direction of the 
breeze J.” 

Such is the chief evidence in support of the elec- 
trical theory; but though we have tried these ex- 
periments, we have not succeeded in verifying any 
one of them. The following statements of Mr. 
Blackwall come nearer our own observations. 

5. “ Having procured a small branched twig,” says 
Mr. Blackwall, “ I fixed it upright in an earthen 
vessel containing water, its base being immersed in 
the liquid, and upon it I placed several of the spiders 
which produce gossamer. Whenever the insects 
thus circumstanced were exposed to a current of air, 
either naturally or artificially produced, they directly 
turned the thorax towards the quarter whence it 
came, even when it was so slight as scarcely to be 
perceptible, and elevating the abdomen, they emitted 
from their spinners a small portion of glutinous 

* Loudon’s Mag. of Nat. Hist., vol. i. p. 322. 
f Experim. Researches in Nat. Hist., p. 136. 

| Mag. Nat. Hist., vol. i. p. 324. 







matter, which was instantly carried out in a line, 
consisting of four finer ones, with a velocity equal, 
or nearly so, to that with which the air moved, as 
was apparent from observations made on the motion 
of detached lines similarly exposed. The spiders, 
in the next place, carefully ascertained whether their 
lines had become firmly attached to any object or 
not, by pulling at them with the first pair of legs ; 
and if the result was satisfactory, after tightening 
them sufficiently, they made them pass to the twig ; 
then discharging from their spinners, which they 
applied to the spot where they stood, a little more of 
their liquid gum, and committing themselves to these 
bridges of their own constructing, they passed over 
them in safety, drawing a second line after them, as 
a security in case the first gave way, and so effected 
their escape. 

“ Such was invariably the result when spiders 
were placed where the air was liable to be sensibly 
agitated : I resolved, therefore, to put a bell glass 
over them ; and in this situation they remained 
seventeen days, evidently unable to produce a single 
line by which they could quit the branch they occupied, 
without encountering the water at its base ; though, 
on the removal of the glass, they regained their 
liberty with as much celerity as in the instances 
already recorded. 

“ This experiment, which, from want of due pre- 
caution has misled so many distinguished naturalists, 
I have tried with several geometric spiders, and 
always with the same success*.” 

Mr. Blackwall, from subsequent experiments, says 
he is “ confident in affirming, that in motionless air, 
spiders have not the power of darting their threads 
even through the space of half an inchf.” The fol- 
* Linn. Trans., vol. xv. p. 456. 







lowing details are given in confirmation of this 
opinion. Mr. Blackwall observed, the 1st Oct., 18:26, 
a little before noon, with the sun shining brightly, 
no wind stirring, and the thermometer in the shade 
ranging from 55 °.5 to 64°, a profusion of shining 
lines crossing each other at every angle, forming a con- 
fused net-work, covering the fields and hedges, and 
thickly coating his feet and ankles, as he walked across 
a pasture. He was more struck with the phenomenon, 
because on the previous day a strong gale of wind had 
blown from the south, and as gossamer is only seen 
in calm weather, it must have been all produced 
within a very short time. 

“ What more particularly arrested my attention,’ , 
says Mr. Blackwall, “ was the ascent of an amazing 
quantity of webs, of an irregular, complicated struc- 
ture, resembling ravelled silk of the finest quality, 
and clearest white ; they were of various shapes and 
dimensions, some of the largest measuring upwards 
of a yard in length, and several inches in breadth in 
the widest part ; while others were almost as broad 
as long, presenting an area of a few square inches 
only. 

“ These webs, it was quickly perceived, were not 
formed in the air, as is generally believed, but at the 
earth’s surface. The lines of which they were com- 
posed, being brought into contact by the mechanical 
action of gentle airs, adhered together, till, by con- 
tinual additions, thev were accumulated into flakes or 
masses of considerable magnitude, on which the 
ascending current, occasioned by the rarefaction of 
the air contiguous to the heated ground, acted with 
so much force as to separate them from the objects 
to which they were attached, raising them in the 
atmosphere to a perpendicular height of at least 
several hundred feet. I collected a number of these 
webs about mid-day, as they rose ; and again in the 






afternoon, when the upward current had ceased, and 
they were falling’: but scarcely one in twenty con- 
tained a spider ; though, on minute inspection, I 
found small winged insects, chiefly aphides, entangled 
in most of them. 

“ From contemplating this unusual display of 
gossamer, my thoughts were naturally directed to 
the animals which produced it, and the countless 
myriads in which they swarmed almost created as 
much surprise as the singular occupation that en- 
grossed them. Apparently actuated by the same 
impulse, all were intent upon traversing the regions 
of air ; accordingly, after gaining the summits of 
various objects, as blades of grass, stubble, rails, 
gates, &c., by the slow and laborious process of 
climbing, they raised themselves still higher by 
straightening their limbs ; and elevating the abdo- 
men, by bringing it from the usual horizontal posi- 
tion, into one almost perpendicular, they emitted from 
their spinning apparatus a small quantity of the 
glutinous secretion with which they construct their 
webs. This viscous substance being drawn out by 
the ascending current of rarefied air into fine lines 
several feet in length, was carried upward, until the 
spiders, feeling themselves acted upon with sufficient 
force in that direction, quitted their hold of the 
objects on which they stood, and commenced their 
journey by mounting aloft. 

“ YVhenever the lines became inadequate to the 
purpose for which they were intended, by adhering 
to any fixed body, they were immediately detached 
from the spinners and so converted into terrestrial 
gossamer, by means of the last pair of legs, and the 
proceedings just described were repeated ; which 
plainly proves that these operations result from a 
strong desire felt by the insects to effect ail ascent*.” 
* Linn, Trans., vol. xv. p. 453. 





6. Without going into the particulars of what 
agrees or disagrees in the above experiments with our 
own observations, we shall give a brief account of 
what we have actually seen in our researches *. So 
far as we have determined, then, all the various 
species of spiders, how different soever the form of 
their webs may be, proceed in the circumstance of 
shooting their lines precisely alike ; but those which 
we have found the most manageable in experiment- 
ing, are the small gossamer spider (Aranea obtectrix, 
Bechstein), known by its shining blackish-brown 
body and reddish-brown semi-transparent legs ; but 
particularly the long-bodied spider ( Tetragnatha 
extensa, Latr.), which varies in colour from green 
to brownish or grey — but has always a black line 
along the belly, with a silvery white or yellowish one 
on each side. The latter is chiefly recommended by 
being a very industrious and persevering spinner, 
while its movements are easily seen, from the long 
cylindrical form of its body and the length of its 
legs. 

We placed the above two species with five or six 
others, including the garden, the domestic, and the 
labyrinthic spiders, in empty wine-glasses, set in tea- 
saucers filled with water to prevent their escape. 
When they discovered, by repeated descents from 
the brims of the glasses, that they were thus sur- 
rounded by a wet ditch, they all set themselves to the 
task of throwing their silken bridges across. For 
this purpose they first endeavoured to ascertain in 
what direction the wind blew, or rather (as the ex- 
periment was made in our study) which way any 
current of air set, — by elevating their arms as we 
have seen sailors do in a dead calm. But, as it may 
prove more interesting to keep to one individual, we 



* J.R. 







shall first watch the proceedings of the gossamer 
spider. 

Finding no current of air on any quarter of the brim 
of the glass, it seemed to give up all hopes of con- 
structing its bridge of escape, and placed itself in the 
attitude of repose ; but no sooner did we produce a 
stream of air, by blowing gently towards its position, 
than, fixing a thread to the glass, and laying hold 
of it with one of its feet, by way of security, it placed 
its body in a vertical position, with its spinnerets ex- 
tended outwards ; and immediately we had the pleasure 
of seeing a thread streaming out from them several 
feet in length, on which the little aeronaut sprung up 
into the air. We were convinced, from what we thus 
observed, that it was the double or bend of the thread 
which was blown into the air ; and we assigned as a 
reason for her previously attaching and drawing out 
a thread from the glass, the wish to give the wind 
a point d'appui — something upon which it might 
have a purchase , as a mechanic would say of a lever. 
The bend of the thread, then, on this view of the 
matter, would be carried out by the wind, — would 
form the point of impulsion, — and, of course, the 
escape bridge would be an ordinary line doubled. 

Such was our conclusion, which was strongly 
corroborated by what we subsequently found said 
by M. Latreille — than whom no higher authority 
could be given. “ When the animal,” says he, 
“ desires to cross a brook, she fixes to a tree or 
some other object, one of the ends of her first threads, 
in order that the wind or a current of air may carry 
the other end beyond the obstacle * and as one end 
is always attached to the spinnerets, he must mean 
that the double of the thread flies off. 

* “ L’un des bouts de ces premiers fils, afin que Ie vent 

ou un courant d’air pousse l’autre extremite de Tun d’eux au 
de la de l’obstacle.” — Diet. Classique d’Hist. Nat., vol. i. p. 510. 









In order to ascertain the fact, and put an end to all 
doubts, vve watched, with great care and minute- 
ness, the proceedings of the long-bodied spider above 
mentioned, by producing a stream of air in the 
same manner, as it perambulated the brim of the 
glass. It immediately, as the other had done, at- 
tached a thread and raised its body perpendicularly, 
like a tumbler standing on his hands with his head 
downwards ; but we looked in vain for this thread 
bending, as we had at first supposed, and going oft* 
double. Instead of this it remained tight, while an- 
other thread, or what appeared to be so, streamed off* 
from the spinners, sometimes in a line, and sometimes 
at a considerable angle, with the first, according to 
the current of the air, — the first thread, extended from 
the glass to the spinnerets, remaining all the while 
tight drawn in a right line. It further appeared to 
us, that the first thread proceeded from the pair of 
spinnerets nearest the head, while the floating thread 
came from the outer pair, — though it is possible in 
such minute objects we may have been deceived. That 
the first was continuous with the second, without 
any perceptible joining, we ascertained in numerous 
instances, by catching the floating line and pulling it 
tight, in which case the spider glides along without 
attaching another line to the glass; but if she have to 
coil up the floating line to tighten it, as usually hap- 
pens, she gathers it into a packet and glues the two 
ends tight together. Her body, while the floating 
line streamed out, remained quite motionless, but we 
distinctly saw the spinnerets not only projected, as is 
always done when a spider spins, but moved in the 
same way as on infant moves it lips when sucking. 
We cannot doubt, therefore, that this motion is 
intended to emit (if eject or project be deemed too 
strong words) the liquid material of the thread ; at 
the same time, we are quite certain that it cannot 







throw out a single inch of thread without the aid of 
a current of air. A long-bodied spider will thus 
throw out in succession as many threads as we please, 
by simply blowing towards it ; but not one where 
there is no current, as under a bell-glass, where it 
may be kept till it die, without being able to construct 
a bridge over water of an inch long. We never 
observed more than one floating thread produced at 
the same time ; though other observers mention 
several. 

The probable commencement, we think, of the 
floating line, is by the emission of little globules of 
the glutinous material to the points of the spinnerules 
— perhaps it may be dropped from them, if not 
ejected, and the globules being carried off by the 
current of air, drawn out into a thread. But we give 
this as only a conjecture, for we could not bring a 
glass of sufficient power to bear upon the spinnerules 
at the commencement of the floating line. 

In subsequent experiments we found, that it was 
not indispensable for the spider to rest upon a solid 
body when producing a line, as she can do so while 
she is suspended in the air by another line. When 
the current of air also is strong, she will sometimes 
commit herself to it by swinging from the end of the 
line. We have even remarked this when there was 
scarcely a breath of air. 

We tried another experiment. We pressed pretty 
firmly upon the base of the spinnerets, so as not to 
injure the spider, blowing obliquely over them ; but 
no floating line appeared. We then touched them 
with a pencil and drew out several lines an inch or 
two in length, upon which we blew in order to extend 
them, but in this also we were unsuccessful, as they 
did not lengthen more than a quarter of an inch. 
We next traced out the reservoirs of a garden- 
spider ( Epeira diadtma ), and immediately taking a 





drop of the matter from one of them on the point of 
a fine needle, we directed upon it a strong current of 
air, and succeeded in blowing out a thick yellow line 
as we might have done with gum-water, of about an 
inch and a half long. 

When we observed our long-bodied spider eager 
to throw a line by raising up its body, we brought 
within three inches of its spinnerets an excited stick 
of sealing-wax, of which it took no notice, nor did 
any thread extend to it, not even when brought almost 
to touch the spinnerets. We had the same want of 
success with an excited glass rod; and indeed we had 
not anticipated any other result, as we have never 
observed that these either attract or repel the floating 
threads, as Mr. Murray has seen them do ; nor have 
we ever seen the end of a floating thread separated 
into its component threadlets and diverging like a 
brush, as he and Mr. Bowman describe. 

Nests, Webs, and Nets of Spiders. 

The neatest, though the smallest spider’s nest which 
we have seen, was constructed in the chink of a gar- 
den post, which we had cut out the previous summer 
in getting at the cells of a carpenter-bee. The archi- 
tect was one of the larger hunting- spiders erroneously 
said by some naturalists to be incapable of spinning. 
The nest in question was about two inches high, 
composed of a very close satin-like texture. There 
were two parallel chambers placed perpendicularly, 
in which position also the inhabitant reposed there 
during the day, going, as we presume, only abroad 
to prey during the night. But the most remark- 
able circumstance was, that the openings (two 
above and two below) were so elastic, that they shut 
almost as closely as the boat cocoon of the Tortrix 
chlorana (see page 322). We observed this spider 
for several months, but at last it disappeared, and w 







took the nest out, under the notion that it might con- 
tain eggs ; but we found none, and therefore conclude 
that it was only used as a day retreat *. The account 
which Evelyn has given of these hunting-spiders is 
so interesting, that we must transcribe it. 

“ Of all sorts of insects,” says he, “ there is none 
has afforded me more divertisement than the vena- 
tores (hunters), which are a sort of lupi (wolves) that 
have their dens in rugged walls and crevices of our 
houses ; a small brown and delicately-spotted kind 
of spiders, whose hinder legs are longer than the 
rest. Such I did frequently observe at Rome, which, 
espying a fly at three or four yards distance, upon 
the balcony where I stood, would not make directly 
to her, but crawl under the rail, till being arrived to 
the antipodes, it would steal up, seldom missing its 
aim ; but if it chanced to want anything of being 
perfectly opposite, would, at first peep, immediately 
slide down again, — till, taking better notice, it would 
come the next time exactly upon the fly’s back : but 
if this happened not to be within a competent leap, 
then would this insect move so softly, as the very 
shadow of the gnomon seemed not to be more im- 
perceptible, unless the fly moved ; and then would 
the spider move also in the same proportion, keeping 
that just time with her motion, as if the same soul 
had animated both these little bodies ; and whether 
it were forwards, backwards, or to either side, with- 
out at all turning her body, like a well managed horse : 
but if the capricious fly took wing and pitched upon 
another place behind our huntress, then would the 
spider whirl its body so nimbly about, as nothing 
could be imagined more swift: by which means she 
always kept the head towards her prey, though, to 
appearance, as immoveable as if it had been a nail 



* J. R. 







driven into the wood, till by that indiscernible pro- 
gress (being arrived within the sphere of her reach) 
she made a fatal leap, swift as lightning, upon the 
fly, catching him in the pole, where she never quitted 
hold till her belly was full, and then carried the re- 
mainder home.” 

One feels a little sceptical, however, when he adds, 
“ I have beheld them instructing their young ones 
how to hunt, which they would sometimes discipline 
for not well observing ; but when any of the old ones 
did (as sometimes) miss a leap, they would run out 
of the field and hide themselves in their crannies, as 
ashamed, and haply not to be seen abroad for four or 
five hours after ; for so long have I watched the 
Qature of this strange insect, the contemplation of 
whose so wonderful sagacity and address has 
amazed me ; nor do I find in any chase whatsoever 
more cunning and stratagem observed. I have found 
some of these spiders in my garden, when the wea- 
ther, towards spring, is very hot, but they are nothing 
so eager in hunting as in Italy ¦*.” 

We have only to add to this lively narrative, that 
the hunting spider, when he leaps, takes good care 
to provide against accidental falls by always swing- 
ing himself from a good strong cable of silk, as 
Swammerdam correctly states f, and which anybody 
may verify, as one of the small hunters ( Salticus sce- 
nicus ), known by having its back striped with black 
and white like a zebra, is very common in Britain. 

As a contrast to the little elastic satin nest of the 
hunter, we may mention the largest with which we 
are acquainted, — that of the labyrinthic spider ( Age - 
lena labyrinthica , Walckenaer). Our readers must 
often have seen this nest spread out like a broad 
sheet in hedges, furze, and other low bushes, and 

* Evelyn’s Travels in Italy. 

| Book of Nature, part i. page 24. 







sometimes on the ground. The middle of this sheet, 
which is of a close texture, is swung like a sailor’s 
hammock, by silken ropes extended all around to the 
higher branches ; but the whole curves upwards and 
backwards, sloping down to a long funnel-shaped 
gallery which is nearly horizontal at the entrance, 
but soon winds obliquely till it becomes quite per- 
pendicular. This curved gallery is about a quarter 
of an inch in diameter, is much more closely woven 
than the sheet part of the web, and sometimes de- 
scends into a hole in the ground, though oftener 
into a group of crowded twigs, or a tuft of grass. 
Here the spider dwells secure, frequently resting 
with her leo;s extended from the entrance of the gal- 
lery, ready to spring out upon whatever insect may 
fall into her sheet net. She herself can only be 
caught by getting behind her and forcing her out into 
the web ; but though we have often endeavoured to 
make her construct a nest under our eye, we have 
been as unsuccessful as in similar experiments with 
the common house spider (Aranea domestica*). 

The house spider’s proceedings were long ago de- 
scribed by Homberg, and the account has been copied, 
as usual, by almost every subsequent writer. Goldsmith 
has, indeed, given some strange mis-statements from 
his own observations, and Bingley has added the 
original remark, that, after fixing its first thread, 
creeping along the wall and joining it as it proceeds, 
it “ darts itself to the opposite side , where the other 
end is to be fastened +” ! Homberg’s spider took 
the more circuitous route of travelling to the opposite 
wall, carrying in one of the claws the end of the 
thread previously fixed, lest it should stick in the 
wrong place. This we believe to be the correct state- 
ment, for as the web is always horizontal, it would 



* J. R. 



f Animal Biography, iii, 470—1. 







seldom answer to commit a floating thread to the 
wind, as is done by other species. Homberg’s spider, 
after stretching as many lines by way of warp , as it 
deemed sufficient between the two walls of the corner 
which it had chosen, proceeded to cross this in the 
way our weavers do in adding the woof, with this 
difference, that the spider’s threads were only laid on 
and not interlaced*. The domestic spiders, however, 
in these modem days, must have forgot this mode of 
weaving, for none of their webs will be found to be 
thus regularly constructed. 

The geometric, or net-working spiders ( Tendeuses , 
Latr.), are as well known in most districts as any of 
the preceding ; almost every bush and tree in the 
gardens and hedge rows having one or more of their 
nets stretched out in a vertical position between ad- 
jacent branches. The common garden spider ( Epeira 
diadema ), and the long-bodied spider ( Tetragnatha 
eoctensa ), are the best known of this order. 

The chief care of a spider of this sort is, to form 
a cable of sufficient strength to bear the net she 
means to hang upon it ; and, after throwing out a 
floating line as above described, when it catches pro- 
perly she doubles and redoubles it with additional 
threads. On trying its strength she is not con- 
tented with the test of pulling it with her legs, but 
drops herself down several feet from various points 
of it, as we have often seen, swinging and bobbing 
with the whole weight of her body. She proceeds 
in a similar manner with the rest of the frame-work 
of her wheel-shaped net; and it may be remarked 
that some of the ends of these lines are not simple, 
but in form of a Y, giving her the additional security 
of two attachments instead of one. 

In constructing the body of the net, the most re- 



* Mem. de l’Acad. des Sciences pour 1707, p.339. 








Geometric Net of Epeira diadema. 



markable circumstance is her using her limbs as a 
measure, to regulate the distances of her radii or 
wheel-spokes, and the circular meshes interweaved 
into them. These are consequently always propor- 
tional to the size of the spider. She often takes up 
her station in the centre, but not always, though 
it is so said by inaccurate writers ; for she as fre- 
quently lurks in a little chamber constructed under 
a leaf or other shelter at the corner of her web, 
ready to dart down upon whatever prey may be en- 
tangled in her net. The centre of the net is said 
also to be composed of more viscid materials than its 



 



suspensory lines, — a circumstance alleged to be 
proved by the former appearing under the micro- 
scope studded with globules of gum *. We have not 
been able to verify this distinction, having seen the 
suspensory lines as often studded in this manner as 
those in the centre +. 

Mason-Spiders. 

A no less wonderful structure is composed by a 
sort of spiders, natives of the tropics and the South 
of Europe, which have been justly called mason- 
spiders by M. Latreille. One of these ( Mygale 
nidulans, Walckn.) found in the West Indies, “ digs 
a hole in the earth obliquely downwards, about three 
inches in length, and one in diameter. This cavity 
she lines with a tough thick web, which, when taken 
out, resembles a leathern purse ; but what is most 
curious, this house has a door with hinges, like the 
operculum of some sea-shells, and herself and family, 
who tenant this nest, open and shut the door when- 
ever they pass and repass. This history was told 
me,” says Darwin, “ and the nest, with its door, 
shewn me by the late Dr. Butt, of Bath, who was 
some years physician in Jamaica J.” 

The nest of a mason-spider, similar to this, has 
been obligingly put into our hands by Mr. Riddle, 
of Blackheath. It came from the West Indies, 
and is probably that of Latreille’s clay-kneader 
( Mygale cr aliens), and one of the smallest of the 
genus. It is composed of very hard argillaceous 
clay, deeply tinged with brown oxide of iron. It is 
in form of a tube, about one inch in diameter, between 
six and seven inches long, and slightly bent towards 
the lower extremity — appearing to have been mined 
into the clay rather than built. The interior of the 

* Kirby and Spence, Intr. i. 419. f J. R. 

$ Darwin’s Zoonomia, i. 253, 8vo, ed. 






tube is lilted with an uniform tapestry of silken web, 
of an orange-white colour, with a texture interme- 
diate between Indian paper and very fine glove-leather. 
But the most wonderful part of this nest is its en- 
trance, which we look upon as the perfection of insect 
architecture. A circular door, about the size of a 
crown piece, slightly concave on the outside and 
convex within, is formed of more than a dozen layers 
of the same web which lines the interior, closely laid 
upon one another, and shaped so that the inner 
layers are the broadest, the outer being gradually less 
in diameter, except towards the hinge, which is about 
an inch long ; and in consequence of all the layers 
being united there, and prolonged into the tube, it 
becomes the thickest and strongest part of the struc- 
ture. The elasticity of the materials, also, gives to 
this hinge the remarkable peculiarity of acting like a 
spring, and shutting the door of the nest spontane- 
ously. It is, besides, made to fit so accurately to the 
aperture, which is composed of similar concentric 
layers of web, that it is almost impossible to distin- 
guish the joining by the most careful inspection. To 
gratify curiosity, the door has been opened and shut 
hundreds of times, without in the least destroying 
the power of the spring. When the door is shut, it 
resembles some of the lichens ( Lecidea ), or the 
leathery fungi, such as Polyporus versicolor , (Mi- 
cheli,) or, nearer still, the upper valve of a young 
oyster shell. The whole nest being of a blackish- 
brown colour, it must be very difficult to discover *. 

Another mason-spider {My gale ccementaria, Latr.) 
found in the South of France, usually selects for her 
nest a place bare of grass, sloping in such a mariner as 
to carry off the water, and of a firm soil, without rocks 
or small stones. She digs a gallery a foot or two 

2 I 



* J. R. 





in depth, and of a diameter (equal throughout) suf- 
ficient to admit of her easily passing. She lines this 
with a tapestry of silk, glued to the walls. The door, 
which is circular, is constructed of many layers of 
earth kneaded, and bound together with silk. Ex- 
ternally, it is flat and rough, corresponding to the 
earth around the entrance, for the purpose, no doubt, 
of concealment : on the inside it is convex, and ta- 
pestried thickly with a web of fine silk. The threads 
of this door-tapestry are prolonged, and strongly at- 
tached to the upper side of the entrance, forming an 
excellent hinge, which, when pushed open by the 
spider, shuts again by its own weight, without the 




A T est of the Mason-Spider. 

A. The nest shut. B. The nest open, C. The spider, mygale ccementaria, 
J). The eyes magnified. E, F. Parts of the foot and claw magnified, 








aid of spring- hinges. When the spider is at home, 
and her door forcibly opened by an intruder, she 
pulls it strongly inwards, and even when half-opened 
often snatches it out of the hand ; but when she is 
foiled in this, she retreats to the bottom of her den, 
as her last resource*. 

Rossi ascertained that the female of an allied species 
(My gale sauvagesii, Latr.), found in Corsica, lived 
in one of these nests with a numerous posterity. He 
destroyed one of these doors to observe whether a 
new one would be made, which it was : but it was 
fixed immoveably, without a hinge ; the spider, no 
doubt, fortifying herself in this manner till she 
thought she might re-open it without danger t. 

“ The Rev. Revett Shepherd has often noticed 
in the fen ditches of Norfolk, a very large spider 
(the species not yet determined) which actually 
forms a raft for the purpose of obtaining its prey 
with more facility. Keeping its station upon a ball 
of weeds about three inches in diameter, probably 
held together by slight silken cords, it is wafted 
along the surface of the water upon this floating 
island, which it quits the moment it sees a drowning 
insect. The booty thus seized it devours at leisure 
upon its raft, under which it retires when alarmed by 
any danger 

Among our native spiders there are several be- 
side this one, which, not contented with a web like 
the rest of their congeners, take advantage of other 
materials to construct cells where, “ hush’d in grim 
repose,’’ they “ expect their insect prey.” The 
most simple of those spider-cells is constructed 

* Mem. Soc. d’Hist. Nat. de Paris, An. vii. 

f Ibid. p. 125, and Latreille, Hist. Nat. Gener. viii. p. 163.] 

\ Kirby and Spence, Intr. i. 425. 




by a longish-bodied spider ( Aranea holosericea , 
Linn.), which is a little larger than the common 
hunting spider. It rolls up a leaf of the lilac or 
poplar, precisely in the same manner as is done 
by the leaf-rolling caterpillars, upon whose cells it 
sometimes seizes to save itself trouble, having first 
expelled, or perhaps devoured, the rightful owner. 
The spider, however, is not satisfied with the tapes- 
try of the caterpillar, and always weaves a fresh set 
of her own, much more close and substantial. 

Another spider common in woods and copses 
( Epeira quadrata ?) weaves together a great number 
of leaves to form a dwelling for herself, and in front 
of it she spreads her toils for entrapping the unwary 
insects which stray thither. These, as soon as caught, 
are dragged into her den, and stored up for a time 
of scarcity. Here also her eggs are deposited and 
hatched in safety. When the cold weather approaches, 
and the leaves of her edifice wither, she abandons it 
for the more secure shelter of a hollow tree, where 
she soon dies ; but the continuation of the species 
depends upon eggs, deposited in the nest before win- 
ter, and remaining to be hatched with the warmth 
of the ensuing summer. 

The spider’s den of united leaves, however, which 
has just been described, is not always useless when 
withered and deserted ; for the dormouse, or the 
harvest mouse (Mus mesorius ), we are not certain 
which, usually selects it as a ready-made roof for its 
nest of dried grass. That those old spiders’ dens are 
not accidentally chosen by the mouse, appears from 
the fact, that out of about a dozen mouse-nests of 
this sort found during winter in a copse between 
Lewisham and Bromley, Kent, every second or third 
one was furnished with such a roof*. 



* J. R. 



 



Diving Water-Spider. 

That spiders may be able to breathe under water, 
we can well understand from their breathing like 
amphibious reptiles by means of gills ; but there is an 
aquatic spider ( Argyroneta aquatica , Walckenaer) 
which is not contented, as a frog would be, with the air 
furnished by the water, but actually carries down a 
supply of air from the atmosphere to her subaqueous 
nest. This spider does not like stagnant water, but 
prefers slow-running streams and ditches, where she 
may often be seen, in the vicinity of London and else- 
where, living in her diving-bell, which shines through 
the water like a little globe of silver : her singular 
economy was first, we believe, described by Clerck*, 
L. M. de Lignac t, and De Geer. 

“ The shining appearance,” says Clerck, “ pro- 
ceeds either from an inflated globule surrounding the 
abdomen, or from the space between the body and the 
water. The spider when wishing to inhale the air, 
rises to the surface with its body still submersed, and 
only the part containing the spinneret rising just to 
the surface, when it briskly opens and moves its four 
teats. A deep cone of hair keeps the water from 
approaching or wetting the abdomen. It comes up 
for air about four times an hour or oftener, though 
I have good reason to suppose it can continue with- 
out it for several days together. 

“ I found in the middle of May one male and ten 
females, which I put into a glass filled with water, 
where they lived together very quietly for eight days. 

I put some duck weed ( Lemna ) into the glass to 
afford them shelter, and the females began to stretch 
diagonal threads in a confused manner from it to the 

* Aratiei Suecici, Stockholm, 1757. 
t Mem. des Araign. Aquat. 12mo. Paris, 1799. 

2 i 3 







sides of the glass about half way down. Each of the 
females afterwards fixed a close bag to the edge of 
the glass, from which the water was expelled by the 
air from the spinneret, and thus a cell was formed 
capable of containing the whole animal. Here 
they remained quietly, with their abdomens in their 
cells, and their bodies still plunged in the water; and 
in a short time brimstone-coloured bags of eggs ap- 
peared in each cell, filling it about a fourth part. On 
the 7th of July several young ones swam out from 
one of the bags: — all this time the old ones had no- 
thing to eat, and yet they never attacked one another 
as other spiders would have been apt to do*.” 

“ These spiders,” says De Geer, “ spin in the 
water a cell of strong, closely woven, white silk in 
the form of half the shell of a pigeon’s egg, or like a 
diving-bell. This is sometimes left partly above 
water, but at others is entirely submersed, and is 
always attached to the objects near it by a great num- 
ber of irregular threads. It is closed all round, but 
has a large opening below, which, however, I found 
closed on the 1 5th of December, and the spider living 
quietly within, with her head downwards. I made a 
rent in this cell and expelled the air, upon which the 
spider came out; yet though she appeared to have 
been laid up for three months in her winter quar- 
ters, she greedily seized upon an insect and sucked 
it. I also found that the male as well as the female 
constructs a similar subaqueous cell, and during 
summer no less than in winter f.” 

Cleanliness of Spiders. 

When we look at the viscid material with which 
spiders construct their lines and webs, and at the 



515 Clerck, Aranei Suecici, Cap. viii. 
t De Geer,Mern. des Insectes, vii. 312. 







rough, hairy covering (with a few exceptions) of 
their bodies, we might conclude that they would 
be always stuck over with fragments of the minute 
fibres which they produce. This, indeed, must often 
happen, did they not take careful precautions to avoid 
it ; for we have observed that they seldom, if ever, leave 
a thread to float at random, except when they wish to 
form a bridge. When a spider drops along a line, 
for instance, in order to ascertain the strength of her 
web, or the nature of the place below her, she inva- 
riably, when she re-ascends, coils it up into a little ball, 
and throws it away. Her claws are admirably 
adapted for this purpose, as well as for walking along 
the lines, as may be readily seen by a magnifying 
glass. 




Triple-clawed foot of a Spider, magnified. 



There are three fclaws, one of which acts as a 
thumb, the others being toothed like a comb, for 
nrlidinir alonff the lines. This structure, however, 
unfits it to walk, as flies can do, upon any upright 
polished surface like glass ; although the contrary * 
is erroneously asserted by the Abbe de la Pluche. 
Before she can do so, she is obliged to construct a 
ladder of ropes, as Mr. Blackwall remarks t, by ele- 
vating her spinneret as high as she can, and laying 



* Spectacle de la Nature, i. 58, f Linn. Trans, vol. xv. 



 



down a step upon which she stands to form a second ; 
and so on, as any one may try by placing a spider 
at the bottom of a very clean wine glass. 

The hairs of the legs, however, are always catching 
bits of web and particles of dust ; but these are not 
suffered to remain long. Most people may have re- 
marked that the house-fly is ever and anon brushing 
its feet upon one another to rub off the dust, though 
we have not seen it remarked in authors, that spiders 
are equally assiduous in keeping themselves clean. 
They have, besides, a more efficient instrument than 
the fly, in their mandibles or jaws, which, like their 
claws, are furnished with teeth ; and a spider which 
appears to a careless observer as resting idly, in nine 
cases out of ten, will be found slowly combing her 
legs with her mandibles, beginning as high as pos- 
sible on the thigh, and passing down to the claws. 
The flue which she thus combs off is regularly tossed 
away. 

With respect to the house-spider (A. domestica ), 
we are told in books, that she “ from time to time 
clears away the dust from her web, and sweeps the 
whole by giving it a shake with her paw, so nicely 
proportioning the force of her blow, that she never 
breaks any thing*.” That spiders may be seen 
shaking their webs in this manner, we readily 
admit ; though it is not, we imagine, to clear them 
of dust, but to ascertain whether they are sufficiently 
sound and strong. 

We recently witnessed a more laborious process of 
cleaning a web than merely shaking it. On coming 
down the Maine by the steam boat from Frankfort, 
in August 1829, we observed the geometric-net of a 
conic-spider (Epeira conica, VValck.) on the frame- 
work of the deck, and as it was covered with flakes 



* Spectacle de la Nature, i. p. 61. 







of soot from the smoke of the engine, we were sur- 
prised to see a spider at work on it ; for, in order to 
be useful, this sort of net must be clean. Upon ob- 
serving it a little closely, however, we perceived that 
she was not constructing a net, but dressing up an 
old one ; though not, we must think, to save trouble, 
so much as an expenditure of material. Some of the 
lines she dextrously stripped of the flakes of soot 
adhering to them ; but in the greater number finding 
that she could not get them sufficiently clean, she 
broke them quite off, bundled them up, and tossed 
them over. We counted five of these packets of 
rubbish which she thus threw away, though there 
must have been many more, as it was some time 
before we discovered the manoeuvre, the packets 
being so small as not to be readily perceived, except 
when placed between the eye and the light. When 
she had cleared off all the sooted lines, she began to 
replace them in the usual way ; but the arrival of the 
boat at Mentz put an end to our observations*. 



* J. R. 






Many of the processes which we have detailed 
bear some resemblance to our own operations of 
building with materials cemented together ; but we 
shall now turn our attention to a class of insect- 
architects, who cannot, so far as we know, be matched 
in prospective skill, by any of the higher orders of 
animals. We refer to the numerous family which 
have received the name of gall-flies, — a family 
which, as yet, is very imperfectly understood, their 
economy being no less difficult to trace, than their 
species is to arrange in the established systems of 
classification. 

One of the most simple and very common in- 




Small berry\shaped galls of the oak leaf, produced by Ci/nips Qusrcusfolii ? 







stances of the nests constructed by gall-insects, may 
be found in abundance during the summer, on the 
leaves of the rose-tree, the oak, the poplar, the wil- 
low ( Salix viminalis,) and many other trees, in the 
globular form of a berry, about the size of a currant, 
and usually of a green colour, tinged with red, like 
a ripe Alban or Baltimore apple. 

When this pseudo-apple in miniature is cut into, 
it is found to be fresh, firm, juicy, and hollow in the 
centre, where there is either an egg or a grub safely 
lodged, and protected from all ordinary accidents. 
Within this hollow ball the egg is hatched, and the 
grub feeds securely on its substance, till it prepares 
for its winter sleep, before changing into a gall-fly 
( Cynips ), in the ensuing summer. There is a mys- 
tery as to the manner in which this gall-fly contrives 
to produce the hollow miniature-apples, each en- 
closing one of her eggs ; and the doubts attendant 
upon the subject cannot, so far as our present know- 
ledge extends, be solved, except by plausible conjec- 
ture. Our earlier naturalists were of opinion that it 
was the grub which produced the galls, by eating, 
when newly hatched, through the cuticle of the leaf, 
and remaining till the juices flowing from the wound 
enveloped it, and acquired consistence by exposure 
to the air. This opinion, however, plausible as it 
appeared to be, was at once disproved by finding un- 
hatched eggs on opening the galls. 

There can be no doubt, indeed, that the mother gall- 
fly makes a hole in the plant for the purpose of 
depositing her eggs. She is furnished with an 
admirable ovipositor for that express purpose, and 
Swammerdam actually saw a gall-fly thus deposit- 
ing her eggs. In some of these insects the ovi- 
positor is conspicuously long, even when the insect 
is at rest ; but in others, not above a line or two 
of it is visible, till the belly of the insect be gently 







pressed. When this is done to the fly that pro- 
duces the currant-gall of the oak, the ovipositor may 
be seen issuing from a sheath in form of a small 
curved needle, of a chestnut-brown colour, and of a 
horny substance, and three times as long as it at first 
appeared. 




Ovipositor of gall-flu , greatly magnified. 



What is most remarkable in this ovipositor is, that 
it is much longer than the whole body of the insect, 
in whose belly it is lodged in a sheath, and from its 
horny nature, it cannot be either shortened or length- 
ened. It is on this account that it is bent into the 
same curve as the body of the insect. The me- 
chanism by which this is effected is similar to that 
of the tongue of a woodpecker (picas'), which, 
though rather short, can be darted out far beyond 
the beak, by means of the hyoid-bone * being thin and 
rolled up like the spring of a watch. The base of 
the ovipositor of the gall-fly is, in a similar way, 
placed near the anus, runs along the curvature of the 
back, makes a turn at the breast, and then, following 
the curve of the belly, appears again near where it 
originates. We copy from Reaumur his accurate 
sketch of this remarkable structure. 



* A forked bone at the root of the tongue. 








Gall-fly, and mechanism of ovipositor, greatly magnified. 



With this instrument the mother gall-fly pierces 
the part of a plant which she selects, and, according 
to our older naturalists, “ ejects into the cavity a drop 
of her corroding liquor, and immediately lays an egg 
or more there ; the circulation of the sap being thus 
interrupted, and thrown, by the poison, into a fer- 
mentation that burns the contiguous parts, and 
changes the natural colour. The sap, turned from 
its proper channel, extravasates and flows round the 
eggs while its surface is dried by the external air, and 
hardens into a vaulted form*.” Kirby and Spence 
tell us, that the parent fly introduces her egg “ into 
a puncture made by her curious spiral sting, and in a 
few hours it becomes surrounded with a fleshy cham- 
ber t.” M. Virey says, the gall tubercle is produced 
by irritation, in the same way as an inflamed tumor 

* Spectacle de la Nature, i, 119. 
f Introd., ii. 449. 







in an animal body, by the swelling - of the cellular 
tissue and the flow of liquid matter, which changes 
the organization, and alters the natural external 
form*. This seems to be the received doctrine at 
present in Francef. 

Sprengel, speaking of the rose-willow, says, the 
insect in spring deposits its eggs in the leaf buds. 
“ The new stimulus attracts the sap, — the type of the 
part becomes changed, and from the prevailing 
acidity of the animal juice, it happens, that in the 
rose and stock-shaped leaves which are pushed out, 
a red instead of a green colour is evolved J.” 

Without pretending positively to state facts which 
are, perhaps, beyond human penetration, we may view 
the process in a rather different light §. Following 
the analogy of what is known to occur in the case of 
the saw-flies (see page 156), after the gall-fly has 
made a puncture and pushed her egg into the hole, 
we may suppose that she covers it over with some 
adhesive gluten or gum, or the egg itself, as is usual 
among moths, &c., may be coated over with such a 
gluten. In either of these two cases, the gluten will 
prevent the sap that flows through the puncture from 
being scattered over the leaf and wasted ; and the 
sap, being thus confined to the space occupied by the 
eggs, will expand and force outwards the pellicle of 
gluten that confines it, till becoming thickened by 
evaporation and exposure to the air, it at length shuts 
up the puncture, stops the further escape of the sap, 
and the process is completed. This explanation 
will completely account tor the globular form of the 
galls alluded to ; that is, supposing the egg of the 



* Hist, des Moeurs et de l’l nstinct, vol. ii. 
f Entomologie par R. A. E. page 242. Paris, 1826. 

$ Elements oi’ the Philosophy of Plants, Eng. Trans. p.2S3. 

$ J. R. , 







gall-fly to be globular, and covered, or coated with a 
pellicle of gluten of uniform thickness, and conse- 
quently opposing uniform resistance, or rather uni- 
form expansibility, to the sap pressing from within. 
It will also account for the remarkable uniformity in 
the size of the gall apples ; for the punctures and the 
eggs being uniform in size, and the gluten, by sup- 
position, uniform in quantity, no more than the 
same quantity of sap can escape in such circum- 
stances. 

But though this explanation appears to be plau- 
sible, it is confessedly altogether conjectural ; for 
nobody since Swammerdam, so far as we at pre- 
sent know, has ever detected a gall-fly in the act 
of depositing her eggs, and he did not attend to this 
circumstance. The indefatigable Reaumur, on one 
occasion, thought he would make sure of tracing the 
steps of the process in the case of the gall-fly, which 
produces the bedeguar * on the wild-rose tree, and to 
which we shall presently advert. His plan was to 
enclose in a box, in which a brood of flies had just 
been produced from a bedeguar, a living branch from 
a wild rose-tree ; but, to his great disappointment, 
no eggs were laid, and no bedeguar formed. Upon 
further investigation, he discovered that the brood 
of flies produced from the bedeguar were not the 
genuine bedeguar insects at all, but one of the 
parasite ichneumons ( Callimone Bedeguciris, Ste- 
phens,) which had surreptitiously deposited their 
eggs there, in order to supply their young with the 
bedeguar grubs, all of which they appeared to have 
devoured. It may prove interesting to look into the 
remarkable structure of the bedeguar itself, which 
is very different from the globular galls above de- 
scribed. 



* The gall of the rose is so called botanically. 






Bedeguar gall of the rose, produced bg Cynips Roscr. 



The gall-fly of the willow ( Cynips viminalis ) de- 
posits, as we have just seen, only a single egg on 
one spot; but the bedeguar-insect lays a large cluster 
of eggs on the extremity of a growing branch of the 
wild rose-tree, making, probably, a proportionate 
number of punctures to procure materials for the 
future habitation of her young progeny. As in the 
former case also, each of these eggs becomes (as we 
may suppose) surrounded with the sap of the rose, 
enclosed in a pellicle of gluten. The gluten, how- 
ever, of the bedeguar insect, is not, it would appear, 
sufficiently tenacious to confine the flowing sap 
within the dimensions of any of the little clustered 
globes containing the eggs, for it oozes out from 
numerous cracks or pores in the pellicle; which 







cracks or pores, however, are not large enough to 
admit a human hair. But this, so far from beinc: a 



defect in the glutinous pellicle of the bedeguar fly, 
is, as we shall presently see, of great utility. The 
sap which issues from each of those pores, instead of 
being evaporated and lost, shoots out into a reddish- 
coloured, fibrous bristle. 




One of the bristles of the Bedeguar of the rose magnified. 

It is about half an inch long, and, from the natural 
tendency of the sap of the rose tree to form prickles, 
these are all over studded with weak pricklets. The 
bedeguar, accordingly, when fully formed, has some 
resemblance, at a little distance, to a tuft of reddish- 
brown hair or moss, stuck upon the branch. Some- 
times this tuft is as large as a small apple, and of a 
rounded, but irregular shape ; at other times it is 
smaller, and in one instance mentioned by Reau- 
mur, only a single egg had been laid on a rose leaf, 
and consequently, only one tuft was produced. 
Each member of the congeries is furnished with its 
own tuft of bristles, arising from the little hollow 
globe in which the egg or the grub is lodged. 

The prospective wisdom of this curious structure 
is admirable. The bedeguar grubs live in their cells 
through the winter, and as their domicile is usually 
on one of the highest branches, it must be exposed 
to every severity of the weather. But the close, non- 
conducting, warm, mossy collection of bristles with 
which it is surrounded, forms for the soft, tender 
grubs a snug protection against the winter’s cold, till, 







through the influence of the warmth of the succeed- 
ing summer, they undergo their final change into the 
winged state, — preparatory to which they eat their 
way with their sharp mandibles through the walls of 
their little cells, which are now so hard as to be cut 
with difficulty by a knife*. 

Another structure, similar in principle, though dif- 
ferent in appearance, is very common upon oak-trees, 
the termination of a branch being selected as best 
suited for the purpose. This structure is rather 
larger than a filbert, and is composed of concentric 
leaves diverging from the base, and expanding up- 
wards, somewhat like an artichoke. Whether this 




Artichoke Gall of the Oak-bud, with Gall-Jh/ (Cynips quercus gemmee ), 
natural size, and its ovipositor (a) magnified. 



* J.R. 







leafy structure is caused by a superinduced disease, 
as the French think, or by the form of the pores in 
the pellicle of gluten surrounding the eggs, or rather 
by the tendency of the exuding sap of the oak to 
form leaves, has not been ascertained ; but that it is 
intended, as in the case of the bedeguar, to afford 
an efficient protection against the weather to the in- 
cluded eggs or grubs, there can be no doubt. 

From the very nature of the process of forming 
willow-galls, bedeguar, and the artichoke of the 
oak, whatever theory be adopted, it will be obvious 
that their growth must be rapid ; for the thicken- 
ing of the exuded sap, which is quickly effected by 
evaporation, will soon obstruct and finally close the 
orifice of the puncture made by the parent insect. 
It is accordingly asserted by Reaumur and other ob- 
servers, that all the species of galls soon reach their 
full growth. 

A very minute reddish-coloured grub feeds upon 
dyer’s broom ( Genista ), producing a sort of gall, fre- 
quently globular, but always studded with bristles, 
arising from the amorphous leaves. The stem of 
the shrub passes through this ball, which is com- 
posed of a great number of leaves, shorter and 
broader than natural, and each rolled into the form 
of a horn, the point of which ends in a bristle. In 
the interior we find a thick fleshy substance, serving 
to sustain the leaves, and also for the nourishment 
of the grubs, some of which are within and some 
between the leaves. They are in prodigious num- 
bers, — hundreds being assembled in the same gall, 
and so minute as scarcely to be perceived without 
the aid of a magnifying glass. The bud of the plant 
attacked by those grubs, instead of forming a shoot, 
pushes out nothing but leaves, and these are all 
rolled and turned round the stem. Some shrubs 







have several of these galls, which are of various 
sizes, from that of a filbert to that of a walnut. 




Leafy Gall of Dyer's Broom, produced, by Cynips penis tee ? 

A. gall, natural size; B- a leafet magnified. 

A similar but still more beautiful production is 
found upon one of the commonest of our indigenous 
willows ( Salix purpurea ), which takes the name of 
rose-willow, more probably from the circumstance 
than from the red colour of its twigs. The older 
botanists, not being aware of the cause of such ex- 
crescences, considered the plants so affected as dis- 
tinct species ; and old Gerard, accordingly, figures 
and describes the rose-willow as “ not onlie making 
a gallant shew, but also yeelding a most cooling aire 
in the heat of summer, being set up in houses for 
decking the same.” The production in question, 
however, is nothing more than the effect produced 
by a species of gall-fly ( Cynips salicis ) depositing its 
eggs in the terminal shoot of a twig, and, like the 






bedeguar and the oak artichoke, causing leaves to 
spring out, of a shape totally different from the other 
leaves of the tree, and arranged very much like the 
petals of a rose. Decandolle says it is found chiefly 
on the Salix helix, S. alba , and S. riparia*. 

A production very like that of the rose-willow 
may be commonly met with on the young shoots of 
the hawthorn, the growth of the shoot affected being 
stopped, and a crowded bunch of leaves formed at 
the termination. These leaves, beside being smaller 
than natural, are studded with short bristly prickles, 
from the sap (we may suppose) of the hawthorn 
being prevented from rising into a fresh shoot, and 
thrown out of its usual course in the formation of 
the arms. These bristles appear indiscriminately 
on both sides of the leaves, some of which are bent 
inwards, while others diverge in their natural manner. 

This is not caused by the egg or grub of a true 
gall-fly, but by the small white tapering grub of 
some dipterous insect, of which we have not ascer- 
tained the species, but which is, probably, a ceci - 
domyia. Each terminal shoot is inhabited by a 
number of these — not lodged in cells, however, but 
burrowing indiscriminately among the half-withered 
brown leaves which occupy the centre of the pro- 
duction f. 

A more remarkable species of gall than any of 
the above, we discovered in June, 1829, on the 
twig of an oak in the grounds of Mr. Perkins, at 
Lee, in Kent. When we first saw it, we imagined 
that the twig was beset with some species of the 
lanigerous aphides, similar to what is vulgarly called 
the American or white blight ( aphis lanata ) ; but 
on closer examination we discarded this notion. The 
twig was indeed thickly beset with a white downy, 

* Flore Franc. Disc. Preliminaire. 
j J. R. 








or rather woolly, substance around the stem at the 
origin of the leaves, which did not appear to be 
affected in their growth, being well formed, healthy, 
and luxuriant. We could not doubt that the woolly 
substance was caused by some insect ; but though 
we cut out a portion of it, we could not detect any* 
egg or grab, and we therefore threw the branch 
into a drawer, intending to keep it as a specimen, 
whose history we might complete at some subse- 
quent period. 

A few weeks afterwards, on opening this drawer, 
we were surprised to see a brood of several dozens 
of a species of gall-fly ( Cynips ), similar in form and 
size to that whose ego's cause the bedeguar of the 
rose, and differing only in being of a lighter colour, 
tending to a yellowish brown. We have since met 
with a figure and description of this gall in Swam- 
merdam. We may remark that the above is not the 
first instance which has occurred in our researches, 
of gall insects outliving the withering of the branch 
or leaf from which they obtain their nourishment. 







JVoolly Gall of the Oak , caused ly a cynips, and drawn from a 

specimen. 

The woolly substance on the branch of the oak 
which we have described was similarly constituted 
with the bedeguar of the rose, with this difference, 
that instead of the individual cells being diffused 
irregularly through the mass, they were all arranged 
at the off-ffoino-s of the leafstalks, each cell beins; 
surrounded with a covering of the vegetable wool, 
which the stimulus of the parent egg, or its gluten, 
had caused to grow, and from each cell a perfect 
fly had issued. We also remarked that there were 
several small groups of individual cells, each of which 
groups was contained in a species of calyx or cup 
of leaf-scales, as occurs also in the well-known gall 
called the oak-apple. 







We were anxious to watch the proceedings of these 
flies in the deposition of their eggs, and the subse- 
quent developments of the gall-growths ; and endea- 
voured for that purpose to procure a small oak plant 
in a garden-pot ; but we did not succeed in this : and 
though they alighted on rose and sweet-briar trees, 
which we placed in their way, we never observed that 
they deposited any eggs upon them. In a week or 
two the whole brood died, or disappeared 

There are some galls, formed on low-growing 
plants, which are covered with down, hair, or wool, 
though by no means so copiously as the one which 
we have just described. Among the plants so affected 
are the germander speedwell, wild-thyme, ground- 
ivy, and others, to which we shall afterwards advert. 

The well-known oak-apple is a very pretty example 
of the galls formed by insects ; and this, when com- 
pared with other galls which form on the oak, shews 
the remarkable difference produced on the same plant 
by the punctures of insects of different species. The 




Oal^apple galls, cns being cut, open to shew the vessels running to 

granules. 



* J. R. 







oak-apple is commonly as large as a walnut or small 
apple, rounded, but not quite spherical, the surface 
being irregularly depressed in various places. The 
skin is smooth, and tinged with red and yellow, like a 
ripe apple ; and at the base there is, in the earlier part 
of the summer, a calyx or cup of five or six small 
brown scaly leaves; but these fall off as the season ad- 
vances. If an oak-apple, be cut transversely, there is 
brought into view a number of oval granules, each con- 
taining a grub, and embedded in a fruit-looking fleshy 
substance, having fibres running through it. As these 
fibres, however, run in the direction of the stem, they 
are best exhibited by a vertical section of the gall ; 
and this also shows the remarkable peculiarity of 
each fibre terminating in one of the granules, like a 
footstalk, or rather like a vessel for carrying nourish- 
ment. Reaumur, indeed, is of opinion that these 
fibres are the diverted nervures of the leaves, which 
would have sprung from the bud in which the gall- 
fly had inserted her eggs, and actually do carry sap- 
vessels throughout the substance of the 2;all. 



Reaumur says the perfect insects ( Cynips quercus ) 
issued from his galls in June and the beginning of 
July, and were of a reddish-amber colour. We have 
procured insects, agreeing with Reaumur’s descrip- 
tion, from galls formed on the bark or wood of the 




Ruot-Cidlls of the Oalt, produced by Cynips quercus inferus ? drawn 

from a specimen. 



Oak, at the line of junction between the root and the 
stem. These galls are precisely similar in structure 





to the oak-apple, and are probably formed at a season 
when the fly perceives, instinctively, that the buds of 
the young branches are unfit for the purpose of 
nidification. 

There is another oak-gall, differing little in size 
and appearance from the oak-apple, but which is 
very different in structure, as instead of giving pro- 
tection and nourishment to a number of grubs, it is 
only inhabited by one. This sort of gall, besides, is 
hard and woody on the outside, resembling a little 
wooden ball of a yellowish colour, but internally of 
a soft, spongy texture. The latter substance, how- 
ever, incloses a small hard gall, which is the im- 
mediate residence of the included insect. Galls of 
this description are often found in clusters of from 
two to seven, near the extremity of a branch, not 
incorporated, however, but distinctly separate. 

We have obtained a fly very similar to this from a 
very common gall, which is formed on the branches 




JVoody-Gall on a JFiilow branch, drawn from a specimen. 

of the willow. Like the one-celled galls just de- 
scribed, this is of a hard, ligneous structure, and 
forms an irregular protuberance, sometimes at the 







extremity, and sometimes on the body, of a branch. 
But instead of one, this has a considerable number 
of cells, irregularly distributed through its substance. 
The structure is somewhat spongy, but fibrous ; and 
externally the bark is smoother than that of the 
branch upon which it grows *. 

The currant-galls (as the French call them) of the 
oak are exactly similar, when formed on the leaves, 
to those which we have first described as produced 
on the leaves of the willow and other trees. But the 
name of currant-gall seems still more appropriate to 
an excrescence which grows on the catkins of the 
oak, giving them very much the appearance of a 
straggling bunch of currants or bird-cherries. The 
galls resemble currants which have fallen from the 
tree before being ripe. These galls do not seem to 
differ from those formed on the leaves of the oak ; 
and are probably the production of the same insect. 




Currant-Oall of the catkins of the Oak, produced Jby Cynips 
quercus pedunculi ? 



* J. It. 








which selects the catkin in preference, by the same 
instinct that the oak-apple gall-fly, as we have seen, 
sometimes deposits its eggs in the bark of the oak 
near the root. 

The gall of the oak, which forms an important 
dye-staff, and is used in making writing-ink, is also 
produced by a Cynips , and has been described in the 
Library of Entertaining Knowledge , (Vegetable 
Substances, p. 16.) The employment of the Cynips 
psenes for ripening figs is described in the same 
volume, p. 244. 

Gall of a Hawthorn Weevil. 

In May, 1829, we found on a hawthorn at Lee, in 
Kent, the leaves at the extremity of a branch neatly 
folded up in a bundle, but not quite so closely as is 
usual in the case of leaf-rolling caterpillars. On 
opening them up, there was no caterpillar to be 
seen, the centre being occupied with a roundish, 
brown-coloured, woody substance, similar to some 
excrescences made by gall-insects {Cynips). Had 
we been aware of its real nature, w r e should have put 
it immediately under a glass or in a box, till the con- 
tained insect had developed itself ; but instead of this, 
we opened the ball, where we found a small yellow- 
ish grub coiled up, and feeding on the exuding 
juices of the tree. As we could not replace the grub 
in its cell, part of the walls of which we had unfor- 
tunately broken, we put it in a small pasteboard box 
with a fresh shoot of hawthorn, expecting that it 
might construct a fresh cell. This, however, it was 
probably incompetent to perform : it did not at least 
make the attempt, and neither did it seem to feed on 
the fresh branch, keeping in preference to the ruins 
of its former cell. To our great surprise, although 
it was thus exposed to the air, and deprived of a con- 
siderable portion of its nourishment, both from the 







part of the cell having been broken off, and from the 
juices of the branch having been dried up, the insect 
went through its regular changes, and appeared in 
the form of a small greyish-brown beetle of the weevil 




Gall of the Hawthorn Weevil, drawn from specimen, 
a. Opened to show the grub. 

family. The most remarkable circumstance in the 
case in question, was the apparent inability of the 
grub to construct a fresh cell after the first was in- 
jured, — proving, we think, beyond a doubt, that it 
is the puncture made by the parent insect when the 
egg is deposited, that causes the exudation and sub- 
sequent concretion of the juices forming the gall 
A few other instances of beetles producing galls 
are recorded by naturalists. Kirbv and Spence have 
ascertained, for example, that the bumps formed on 
the roots of kedlock or charlock ( S inapis arvensis ) 
are inhabited by the larvse of a weevil ( Curculio 
contractus, Mars ham ; and Rhynchcenus assimilis, 
Fabr.) ; and it may be reasonably supposed that 
either the same or similar insects cause the clubbing 

* J. R. 







of the roots of cabbages, and the knob-like galls on 
turnips, called in some places the anbury. They 
are evidently beetles of an allied genus which form 
the woody galls sometimes met with on the leaves of 
the guelder-rose (Viburnum), the lime-tree (Tilia 
europcea ), and the beech ( Fagus sylvatica). 

There are also some two-winged flies which pro- 
duce woody galls on various plants, such as the 
thistle-fly (Tephritis cardui , Latr.) The grubs of 
this pretty fly produce on the leaf-stalks of thistles 
an oblong woody knob. On the common white 
briony (Bryonia clioica) of our hedges may be 
found a very pretty fly of this genus, of a yellowish 
brown colour, with pellucid wings, waved much 
like those of the thistle-fly with yellowish brown. 
This fly lays its eggs near a joint of the stem, and 
the grubs live upon its substance. The joint swells 
out into an oval form, furrowed in several places, 
and the fly is subsequently disclosed. In its perfect 
state, it feeds on the blossom of the briony*. Flies 
of another minute family, the gall-gnats ( Cecidomyice , 
Latr.), pass the first stage of their existence in the 
small globular cottony galls which abound on ger- 
mander speedwell (Veronica chamcedrys), wild thyme 
(Thymus serpyllum ), and ground ivy (Glechoma 
hederacea ) . The latter is by no means uncommon, 
and may be readily recognised. 

Certain species of plant-lice (Aphides), whose com- 
plete history would require a volume, produce ex- 
crescences upon plants which may with some pro- 
priety be termed galls, or semi-galls. Some of these 
are without any aperture, whilst others are in form 
of an inflated vesicle, with a narrow opening on the 
under side of a leaf, and expanding (for the most 
part irregularly) into a rounded knob on its upper 



* J. R, 







surface. The mountain-ash ( Pyrns aucuparia) has 
its leaves and young shoots frequently affected in 
this way, and sometimes exhibits galls larger than a 
walnut, or even than a man’s fist : at other times 
they do not grow larger than a filbert. Upon open- 
ing one of these, they are found to be filled with the 
aphides sorhi. If taken at an early stage of then- 
growth, they are found open on the under side of the 
leaf, and inhabited only by a single female aphis, 
pregnant with a numerous family of young. In a 
short time, the aperture becomes closed, in conse- 
quence of the insect making repeated punctures 
round its edge, from which sap is exuded, and 
forms an additional portion of the walls of the cell. 




A Plant Louse (Aphis), magnified- 

In this early stage of its growth, however, the gall 
does not, like the galls of the cynips, increase very 
much in dimensions. It is after the increase of the 
inhabitants by the young brood that it grows with 
considerable rapidity ; for each additional insect, in 
order to procure food, has to puncture the wall of the 
chamber and suck the juices, and from the punctures 
thus made the sap exudes, and enlarges the walls. 
As those galls are closed all round in the more ad- 
vanced state, it does not appear how the insects can 
£.ver effect an exit from their imprisonment. 

A much more common production, allied to the 







one just described, may be found on the poplar, in 
June and July. Most of our readers may have ob- 
served, about Midsummer, a small snow-white tuft 
of downy-looking substance floating 1 about on the 
wind, as if animated. Those tufts of snow-white 
down are never seen in numbers at the same time, 
but generally single, though some dozens of them 
may be observed in the course of one day. This sin- 
gular object is a four-winged fly ( [Eriosomci populi, 
Leach), whose body is thickly covered with long 
down — a covering which seems to impede its flight, 
and make it appear more like an inanimate substance 
floating about on the wind, than impelled by the 
volition of a living animal. This pretty fly feeds 
upon the fresh juices of the black poplar, preferring 
that of the leaves and leaf-stalks, which it punctures 
for this purpose with its beak. It fixes itself with 
this design to a suitable place upon the principal 
nervure of the leaf, or upon the leaf-stalk, and re- 
mains in the same spot till the sap, exuding through 
the punctures, and thickening by contact with the 
air, surrounds it with a thick fleshy wall of living 
vegetable substance, intermediate in texture between 
the wood and the leaf, being softer than the former 
and harder than the latter. In this snug little cham- 
ber, secure from the intrusion of lady-birds and the 
grubs of aphidivorous flies ( Syrphi ), she brings 
forth her numerous brood of young ones, who imme- 
diately assist in enlarging the extent of their dwelling, 
by puncturing the walls. In one respect, however, 
the galls thus formed ditfer from those of the moun- 
tain-ash just described, — those of the poplar having 
always an opening left into some part of the cell, and 
usually in that portion of it which is elongated into 
an obtuse beak. From this opening the young, when 
arrived at the winged state, make their exit, to form 







new colonies ; and during their migrations, attract 
the attention of the most incurious by the singularity 
of their appearance 




Galls produced on the leaves and leaf-stalks of the Poplar ly 
Eriosoma popidi , with the various forms of the insects, winged, nut 
winged, and covered with wool. 



On the black poplar there may be found, later in 
the season than the preceding, a gall of a very dif- 
ferent form, though, like the other, it is for the most 
part on the leaf-stalk. The latter sort of galls are 
of a spiral form ; and though they are closed, they 
open upon slight pressure, and appear to be formed 
of two laminae, twisted so as to unite. It is at this 



* J. r : 







opening that an aperture is formed spontaneously for 
the exit of the insects, when arrived at a perfect state. 
In galls of this kind we find aphides, but of a dif- 
ferent species from the lanigerous ones, which form 
the horn-shaped galls above described. 

Leaf-Rolling Aphides. 

It may not be improper to introduce here a brief 
sketch of some other effects, of a somewhat similar 
kind, produced on leaves by other species of the 
same family (Aphides). In all the instances of this 
kind which we have examined, the form which the 
leaf takes serves as a protection to the insects, both 
from the weather and from depredators. That there 
is design in it appears from the circumstance of the 
aphides crowding into the embowering vault which 
they have formed ; and we are not quite certain 
whether they do not puncture certain parts of the 
leaf for the very purpose of making it arch over 
them ; at least, in many cases, such as that of the 
hop-fly ( Aphis humuli ), though the insects are in 
countless numbers, no arching of the leaves follows. 
The rose-plant louse, again, ( Aphis roses,) sometimes 
arches the leaves, but more frequently gets under the 
protecting folds of the half-expanded leaf-buds *. 

One of the most common instances of what we 
mean occurs on the leaves of the currant-bush, 
which may often be observed raised up into irregular 
bulgings, of a reddish-brown colour. On examining 
the under side of such a leaf, there will be seen a 
crowd of small insects, some with and some without 
wings, which are the Aphides ribis in their different 
stages, feeding securely and socially on the juices of 
the leaf. 

The most remarkable instance of this, however, 



* J. R. 








I.eaf of the Currant-hush, bulged out by the Aphis ribes. 



which we have seen, occurs on the leaves of the elm, 
and is caused by the u4phis ulmi. The edge of an 
elm-leaf inhabited by those aphides is rolled up in 
an elegant convoluted form, very much like a spiral 
shell ; and in the embowered chamber thus formed, 
the insects are secure from rain, wind, and, partially, 
from the depredations of carnivorous insects. One 
of their greatest enemies, the lady-bird ( Coccinella ), 
seldom ventures, as we have remarked, into con- 
cealed corners, except in cold weather, and contrives 
to find food enough among the aphides which feed 
openly and unprotected, such as the magpie aphides 
of the alder ( Aphides sambuci). The grubs, how- 
ever, of the lady-bird, and also those of the aphidi- 
vorous flies ( Syrphi ), may be found prying into the 
most secret recesses of a leaf, to prey upon the inha- 







bitants, whose slow movements disqualify them from 
effecting- an escape *. 

The effects of the puncture of aphides on growing 
plants is strikingly illustrated in the shoots of the 
lime-tree and several other plants, which become 
bent and contorted on the side attacked by the insects, 
in the same way as the shoot might warp by the loss 
of its juices on the side exposed to a brisk fire. The 
curvings thus effected become very advantageous to 
the insects, for the leaves sprouting from the twig, 
which naturally grow at a distance from each other, 
are brought close together in a bunch, forming a 
kind of nosegay, that conceals all the contour of 
the sprig, as well as the insects which are em- 
bowered under it, protecting them against the rain 
and the sun, and at the same time hiding them 
from observation. It is only requisite, however, 




Shoot of the Lime-tree contorted by the punctures of the Aphis Tilicv. 

where they have formed bowers of this descrip- 
tion, to raise the leaves, in order to see the little 
colony of the aphides, — or the remains of those 



* J. R. 







habitations which they have abandoned. We have 
sometimes observed sprig’s of the lime-tree, of a 
thumb’s thickness, portions of which resembled spiral 
screws, but we could not certainly have assigned the 
true cause for this twisting, had we not been ac- 
quainted with the manner in which aphides contort 
the young shoots of this tree*. The shoots of the 
gooseberry and the willow are sometimes contorted 
in the same way, but not so strikingly as the shoots 
of the lime. 

Pseudo-Galls. 

It may not be out of place to mention here certain 
anomalous excrescences upon trees and other plants, 
which, though they much resemble galls, are not so 
distinctly traceable to the operations of any insect. In 
our researches after galls, we have not unfrequently 
met with excrescences which so very much resemble 
them, that before dissection we should not hesitate to 




Pseudo-^all of the Bramble , drawn from a spec men. 
* Reaumur, vol. iii. 





consider them as such, and predict that they formed the 
nidus of some species of insects. In more instances 
than one we have felt so strongly assured of this, that 
we have kept several specimens for some months, in 
nurse-boxes, expecting that in due time the perfect 
insects would be disclosed. 

One of these pseudo-galls occurs on the common 
bramble (Rubus fruticosus), and bears some resem- 
blance to thebedeguarofthe rose when old and changed 
by weather. It clusters round the branches in the form 
of irregular granules, about the size of a pea, very 
much crowded, the whole excrescence being rather 
larger than a walnut. We expected to find this 
excrescence full of grubs, and were much surprised 
to discover, upon dissection, that it was only a dis- 
eased growth of the plant, caused (it might be) by 
the puncture of an insect, but not for the purpose of 
a nidus or habitation*. 

Another sort of excrescence is not uncommon on 
the terminal shoots of the hawthorn. This is in 
general irregularly oblong, and the bark which covers 
it is of an iron colour, similar to the scoriae of a black- 
smith’s forge. When dissected, we find no traces of 
insects, but a hard, ligneous, and rather porous tex- 
ture. It is not improbable that this excrescence may 
originate in the natural growth of a shoot being 
checked by the punctures of aphides, or of those 
grubs which we have described (page 389). 

Many of those excrescences, however, are probably 
altogether unconnected with insects, and are simply 
hypertrophic diseases, produced by too much nourish- 
ment, like the wens produced on animals. Instances 
of this may be seen at the roots of the holyhock 
( Althea rosea) of three or four years’ standing; on 
the stems of the elm and other trees, immediately 



* J. R. 








Pseudo-galls of the Hawthorn, drawn from specimens. 

above the root ; and on the upper branches of the 
birch, where a crowded cluster of twigs sometimes 
grows, bearing no distant resemblance to a rook’s 
nest in miniature. * - - - 

One of the prettiest of those pseudo-galls with 
which we are acquainted, is produced on the Scotch 
fir ( Pinus sylvestris ), by the aphis pini, which is one 
of the largest species of our indigenous aphides. The 
production we allude to may be found, during the 




Pseudo-gall produced by Aphis Pini on the Scotch fir, drawn from 

a specimen. 





summer months, on the terminal shoots of this tree, 
in the form of a small cone, much like the fruit of the 
tree in miniature, but with this difference, that the 
fruit terminates in a point, whereas the pseudo-gall 
is nearly globular. Its colour also, instead of being 
green is reddish ; but it exhibits the tiled scales of the 
fruit cone. 

We have mentioned this the more willingly that it 
seems to confirm the theory which we hazarded 
above, respecting the formation of the bedeguar of 
the rose and other true galls — by which we ascribed 
to the sap diverted from its natural course by insects, 
a tendency to form leaves, &c., like those of the plant 
from which it is made to exude. 





The structures which we have hitherto noticed have 
all been formed of inanimate materials, or at the 
most of growing vegetables ; but those to which we 
shall now advert are actually composed of the flesh 
of living animals, and seem to be somewhat akin to 
the galls already described, as formed upon the 
shoots and leaves of plants. These were first inves- 
tigated by the accurate Vallisnieri, and subsequently 
by Reaumur, De Geer, and Linnaeus ; but the best 
account which has hitherto been given of them is by 
our countryman Mr. Bracey Clark, who differs essen- 
tially from his predecessors as to the mode in which 
the eggs are deposited. As in consequence of the ex- 
treme difficulty, if not the impossibility, of personal 
observation, it is no easy matter to decide between the 
conflicting opinions, we shall give such of the state- 
ments as appear most plausible. 

The mother breeze-fly ( Oestrus bovis, Clark ; — 
Hypoderma bovis , Latr.), which produces the tu- 
mours in cattle called wurbles , or wormuls ( quasi , 
worm-holes ), is a two-winged insect, smaller, but 
similar in appearance and colour to the carder-bee 
(p. 64), with two black bands, one crossing the 
shoulders and the other the abdomen, the rest being 

* In order to prevent ambiguity, it is necessary to remark that 
the excrescences thus called must not be confounded with the 
true galls, which are occasionally found in the gall bladder. 





covered with yellow hair. This fly appears to have 
been first discovered by Yallisnieri, who has given a 
curious and interesting history of his observations 
upon its economy. “ After having read this account,” 
says Reaumur, “ with sincere pleasure, I became ex- 
ceedingly desirous of seeing with my own eyes what 
the Italian naturalist had reported in so erudite and 
pleasing a manner. I did not then imagine that it 
would ever be my lot to speak upon a subject which 
had been treated with so much care and elegance ; 
but since I have enjoyed more favourable opportuni- 
ties than M. Vallisnieri, it was not difficult for me to 
investigate some of the circumstances better, and to 
consider them under a different point of view. It is 
not indeed very wonderful to discover something 
new in an object, though it has been already care- 
fully inspected with very good eyes, when we sit 
down to examine it more narrowly, and in a more 
favourable position ; while it sometimes happens, 
also, that most indifferent observers have detected 
what had been previously unnoticed by the most 
skilful interpreters of nature*.” 

From the observations made by Reaumur, he 
concluded that the mother-fly, above described, de- 
posits her eggs in the flesh of the larger animals, for 
which purpose she is furnished with an ovipositor of 
singular mechanism. We have seen that the ovi- 
positors of the gall-flies ( Cynips ) are rolled up within 
the body of the insect somewhat like the spring of a 
watch, so that they can be thrust out to more than 
double their apparent length. To effect the same 
purpose, the ovipositor of the ox-fly lengthens, by 
a series of sliding tubes, precisely like an opera- 
glass. There are four of these tubes, as may be 
seen by pressing the belly of the fly till they come 



* Reaumur, Mem. iv. 505. 






into view. Like other ovipositors of this sort, they 
are composed of a horny substance; but the terminal 
piece is very different indeed from the same part in 
the gall-flies, the tree-hoppers ( Cicada ), and the 
ichneumons, being composed of five points, three of 
which are longer than the other two, and at first 
sight not unlike a JLeur-de-lys , though, upon nar- 
rower inspection, they may be discovered to termi- 
nate in curved points, somewhat like the claw of a 
cat. The two shorter pieces are also pointed, but 
not curved ; and by the union of the five, a tube is 
composed for the passage of the eggs. 




Ovipositor of the brecze-fy, greatly magnified, with a claw and part 
of the tube, distinct. 

It would be necessary, Reaumur confesses, to see 
the fly employ this instrument to understand in what 
manner it acts, though he is disposed to consider it 






fit for boring’ through the hides of cattle. “ When- 
ever I have succeeded,” he adds, “ in seeing these 
insects at work, they have usually shown that they 
proceeded quite differently from what I had imagined ; 
but unfortunately I have never been able to see one 
of them pierce the hide of a cow under my eyes 
Mr. Bracey Clark, taking another view of the 
matter, is decidedly of opinion that the fly does not 
pierce the skin of cattle with its ovipositor at all, but 
merely glues its eggs to the hairs, while the grubs, 
when hatched, eat their way under the skin. If this 
be the fact, as is not improbable, the three curved 
pieces of the ovipositor, instead of acting, as Reaumur 
imagined, like a centre-bit, will only serve to prevent 
the eggs from falling till they are firmly glued to the 
hair, the opening formed by the two shorter points 
permitting this to be effected. This account of the 
matter is rendered more plausible, from Reaumur’s 
statement that the deposition of the egg is not at- 
tended by much pain, unless, as he adds, some 
very sensible nervous fibres have been wounded. 
According to this view, we must not estimate the 
pain produced by the thickness of the instrument ; 
for the sting of a wasp or a bee, although very con- 
siderably smaller than the ovipositor of the ox-fly, 
causes a very pungent pain. It is, in the latter case, 
the poison infused by the sting, rather than the 
wound, which occasions the pain; and Vallisnieri is 
of opinion that the ox-fly emits some acrid matter 
along with her eggs, but there is no proof of this 
beyond conjecture. 

It ought to be remarked, however, that cattle have 
very thick hides, which are so far from being acutely 
sensitive of pain, that in countries where they are put 
to draw ploughs and waggons, they find a whip 



* Mem, iv. 538. 





ineffectual to drive them, and have to use a goad, in 
form of an iron needle, at the end of a stick. Were 
the pain inflicted by the fly very acute, it would find 
it next to impossible to lay thirty or forty eggs without 
being killed by the strokes of the ox’s tail ; for though 
Vallisnieri supposes that the fly is shrewd enough 
to choose such places as the tail cannot reach, Reau- 
mur saw a cow repeatedly flap its tail upon a part 
full of the gall-bumps ; and in another instance he 
saw a heifer beat away a party of common flies from 
a part where there were seven or eight gall-bumps. 
He concludes, therefore, with much plausibility, that 
these two beasts would have treated the ox-flies in 
the same way, if they had given them pain when de- 
positing their eggs. 

The extraordinary effects produced upon cattle, on 
the appearance of one of these flies, would certainly 
lead us to conclude, that the pain inflicted is excru- 
ciating. Most of our readers may recollect to have 
seen, in the summer months, a whole herd of cattle 
start off across a field in full gallop, as if they were 
racing, — their movements indescribably awkward — 
their tails being poked out behind them as straight 
and stiff as a post, and their necks stretched to their 
utmost length. All this consternation has been 
known, from the earliest times, to be produced by the 
fly we are describing. Virgil gives a correct and 
lively picture of it in his Georgies *, of which the fol- 
lowing is a translation, a little varied from Trapp : — 

Round mount Alburnus, green with shady oaks, 

And in the groves of Silarus, there flies 

* Est lucos Silari circa illicibusque virentem 
Plurimus Alburnum volitans, cui nomen asilo 
Romanum est, CEstrum Graii vertere vocantes, 

Asper, acerba sonans; quo tota exterrita sylvis 
Diffugiunt armenta; furit mugitibus aether 
Concussus, sylvaeque et sicci ri pi Tanagri. 

Georg, lib. HI. 1. 146, 






An insect pest (named CEstrus by the Greeks, 

By us Asilus ): fierce with jarring hum 
It darts towards the herd, driving them terrified 
From glade to glade, while the far sky resounds, 

And woods and rivers’ banks echo their lowings. 

Had we not other instances to adduce, of similar 
terror caused among sheep, deer, and horses, by 
insects of the same genus, which are ascertained not 
to penetrate the skin, we should not have hesitated 
to conclude that Vallisnieri and Reaumur are right, 
and Mr. Bracey Clark wrong. In the strictly similar 
instance of Rein-deer fly ( CEstrus tarandi, Linn.), 
we have the high authority of Linnaeus for the fact, 
that it lays its eggs upon the skin. 

“ I remarked,” he says, “ with astonishment how 
greatly the reindeer are incommoded in hot weather, 
insomuch that they cannot stand still a minute, no 
not a moment, without changing their posture, start- 
ing, puffing and blowing continually, and all on 
account of a little fly. Even though amongst a herd 
of perhaps five hundred reindeer there were not 
above ten of those flies, every one of the herd trem- 
bled and kept pushing its neighbour about. The 
fly, meanwhile, was trying every means to get at 
them ; but it no sooner touched any part of their 
bodies, than they made an immediate effort to shake 
it off. I caught one of these insects as it was flying 
along with its tail protruded, which had at its extremity 
a small linear orifice perfectly white. The tail itself 
consisted of four or five tubular joints, slipping into 
each other like a pocket spying-glass, which this fly, 
like others, has a power of contracting at pleasure*.” 

In another work he is still more explicit. “ This 
well-known fly,” he says, “ hovers the whole day 
over the back of the reindeer, with its tail protruded 



* Linuseus, Lachesis Lapponica, July 19th. 







and a little bent, upon the point of which it holds a 
small white egg, scarcely so large as a mustard-seed, 
and when it has placed itself in a perpendicular posi- 
tion, it drops its egg, which rolls down amongst the 
hair to the skin, where it is hatched by the natural 
heat and perspiration of the reindeer, and the grub 
eats its way slowly under the skin, causing a bump 
as large as an acorn*.” The male and female of 
the reindeer breeze-fly are figured in the Library of 
Entertaining Knowledge, Menageries, Yol. I., p. 405. 

There is one circumstance which, though it appears 
to us to be of some importance in the question, has 
been either overlooked or misrepresented in books. 
“ While the female fly,” says Kirby and Spence, “ is 
performing the operation of oviposition, the animal 
attempts to lash her off as it does other flies, with 
its tail t; ” though this is not only at variance with 
their own words in the page but one preceding, 
where they most accurately describe “ the herd with 
their tails in the air, or turned upon their backs, or 
stiffly stretched out in the direction of the spine 
but with the two facts mentioned above from 
Reaumur, as well as with common observation. If 
the ox then do not attempt to lash off the breeze-fly, 
but runs with its tail stiffly extended, it affords a 
strong presumption, that the fly terrifies him by 
her buzzing (asjier, acerba sojiansf rather than 
pains him by piercing his hide ; her buzz, like the 
rattle of the rattle-snake, being instinctively under- 
stood, and intended, it may be, to prevent an over 
population, by rendering it difficult to deposit the 
eggs. 

The horse breeze-fly (G aster ophilus equi, Leach), 
which produces the maggots well known by the name 
of botts in horses, is ascertained beyond a doubt to 

* Linnaeus, Flora Lapponica. P. 378, ed. Lond. 1792. 

•}• Kirby and Spence, Introd. i, 151. + Ibid. p. 149. 







deposit her eggs upon the hair, and as insects of the 
same genus almost invariably proceed upon similar 
principles, however much they may vary in minute 
particulars, it may be inferred with justice, that the 
breeze-flies which produce galls, do the same. The 
description given by Mr. Bracey Clark, of the pro- 
ceedings of the horse breeze-fly, is exceedingly in- 
teresting. 

“ When the female has been impregnated, and her 
eggs sufficiently matured, she seeks among the 
horses a subject for her purpose, and approaching 
him on the wing, she carries her body nearly upright 
in the air, and her tail, which is lengthened for the 
purpose *, curved inwards and upwards : in this way 
she approaches the part where she designs to de- 
posit the egg ; and suspending herself for a few 
seconds before it, suddenly darts upon it and leaves 
the egg adhering to the hair ; she hardly appears to 
settle, but merely touches the hair with the egg held 
out on the 'projected point of the abdomen *. The 
egg is made to adhere by means of a glutinous 
liquor secreted with it. She then leaves the horse 
at a small distance, and prepares a second egg, and 
poising herself before the part, deposits it in the same 
way. The liquor dries, and the egg becomes firmly 
glued to the hair ; this is repeated by these flies till 
four or five hundred eggs are sometimes placed on 
one horse.” 

Mr. Clark farther tells us, that the fly is careful to 
select a part of the skin which the horse can easily 
reach with his tongue, such as the inside of the 
knee, or the side and back part of the shoulder. It 

* The3e circumstances afford, we think, a complete answer to 
the query of Kirby and Spence, — “ There can be little doubt, (or 
else what is the use of such an apparatus ?) that it bores a hole 
in the skin.” — Introd., i. 162, 2nd. edit. 



A



was at first conjectured, that the horse licks off the 
eggs thus deposited, and that they are by this means 
conveyed into its stomach ; but Mr. Clark says, “ I 
do not find this to be the case, or at least only by 
accident ; for when they have remained on the hair 
four or five days, they become ripe, after which time 
the slightest application of warmth and moisture is 
sufficient to bring forth, in an instant, the latent larva. 
At this time, if the tongue of the horse touches the 
egg, its operculum is thrown open, and a small, 
active worm is produced, which readily adheres to 
the moist surface of the tongue, and is thence con- 
veyed with the food to the stomach.” He adds, 
that “ a horse which has no ova deposited on him 
may yet have botts, by performing the friendly office 
of licking another horse that has The irrita- 
tions produced by common flies ( Anthomyice me - 
teorica:, Mf.igen), are alleged as the incitement to 
licking. 

The circumstance, however, of most importance to 
our purpose, is the agitation and terror produced 
both by this fly, and by another horse breeze-fly 
( Gasterophilus hcemorrhoidalis, Leach), which de- 
posits its eggs upon the lips of the horse, as the 
sheep breeze-fly ( CEstrus ovis ) does on that of the 
sheep. The first of these is described by Mr. Clark 
as “ very distressing to the animal, from the excessive 
titillation it occasions ; for he immediately after rubs 
his mouth against the ground, his fore-feet, or some- 
times against a tree, with great emotion ; till finding 
this mode of defence insufficient, he quits the spot in 
a rage, and endeavours to avoid it by galloping away 
to a distant part of the field, and if the fly still con- 
tinues to follow and teaze him, his last resource is in 
the water, where the insect is never observed to pur- 






* Linn. Trans, iii, 305. 






sue him. These flies appear sometimes to hide them- 
selves in the grass, and as the horse stoops to graze 
they dart upon the mouth or lips, and are always 
observed to poise themselves during a few seconds 
in the air, while the egg is preparing on the extended 
'point of the abdomen*.” 

The moment the second fly just mentioned touches 
the nose of a sheep, the animal shakes its head and 
strikes the ground violently with its fore-feet, and at 
the same time holding its nose to the earth, it runs 
away looking about on every side to see if the flies 
pursue. A sheep will also smell the grass as it goes, 
lest a fly should be lying in wait, and if one be de- 
tected, it runs off in terror. As it will not, like a horse 
or an ox, take refuge in the water, it has recourse to a 
rut or dry dusty road, holding its nose close to the 
ground, thus rendering it difficult for the fly to get 
at the nostril. 

When the egg of the ox-breeze fly ( Hypoderma 




a The belly of the grub, b Its back, c The tail of the grub, 
greatly magnified, d The bump, or gall, having its external 
aperture filled with the tail of the grub. 

* Linn. Trans, iii, 305. 







bovis , Latr.) is hatched, it immediately (if Mr. 
Bracey Clark be correct) burrows into the skin ; 
while, according to Reaumur, it is hatched there. 
At all events, the grub is found in a bump on the 
animal’s back, resembling a gall on a tree, — “ a 
place,” says Reaumur, “ where food is found in 
abundance, where it is protected from the weather, 
where it enjoys at all times an equal degree of 
warmth, and where it finally attains maturity 
When in an advanced stage, the bumps appear much 
like the swellings produced upon the forehead by a 
smart blow. These, with the grubs, are represented 
in the foregoing figure, and also at page 412. 

Every bump, according to Reaumur, has in its 
inside a cavity, which is a lodging proportionate to 
the size of the insect. The bump and cavity also 
increase in proportion to the growth of the grub. It 
is not until about the middle of May that these bumps 
can be seen full grown. Owing to particular cir- 
cumstances, they do not all attain an equal size. The 
largest of them are sixteen or seventeen lines in dia- 
meter at their base, and about an inch high; but they 




Fly, maggot , and grub of the Ox-breeze, with a microscopic view of the 

maggot. 



* Mem, iv. 540. 








are scarcely perceptible before the beginning, or dur- 
ing the course of the winter. 

It is commonly upon young cattle, such, namely, 
as are two or three years old, that the greatest num- 
ber of bumps is found ; it being rare to observe them 
upon very old animals. The fly seems to be well 
aware that such skins will not oppose too much re- 
sistance, and seems to know, also, that tender flesh 
is the most proper for supplying good nourishment 
to its progeny. “ And why,” asks Reaumur, “ should 
not the instinct which conducts it to confide its eggs 
to the flesh of certain species only, lead it to prefer 
the flesh of animals of the same species which is most 
preferable ? ” The number of bumps which are found 
upon a beast is equal to the number of eggs which 
have been deposited in its flesh ; or, to speak more 
correctly, to the number of eggs which have suc- 
ceeded, for apparently all are not fertile ; but this 
number is very different upon different cattle. Upon 




Bumps or wurblcs produced on cattle by the Ox-breeze. 







one cow only three or four bumps may be observed, 
while upon another there will appear from thirty to 
forty. They are not always placed on the same parts, 
nor arranged in the same manner : commonly, they 
are near the spine, but sometimes upon or near the 
thighs and shoulders. Sometimes they are at remote 
distances from each other ; at other times they are 
so near that their circumferences meet. In certain 
places, three or four tumours may be seen touching 
each other ; and more than a dozen sometimes occur 
arranged as closely together as possible. 

It is very essential to the grub that the hold of the 
tumour should remain constantly open ; for by this 
aperture a communication with the air necessary for 
respiration is preserved ; and the grub is thence 
placed in the most favourable position for receiving 
air. Its spiracles for respiration, like those of many 
other grubs, are situated immediately upon the pos- 
terior extremity of the body. Now, being almost 
always placed in such a situation as to have this part 
above, or upon a level with the external aperture, it 
is enabled to respire freely *. 

We have not so many examples of galls of this 
kind as we have of vegetable galls ; and when we 
described the surprising varieties of the latter, we did 
not perceive that it was essential to the insects inha- 
biting them to preserve a communication with the 
external air: in the galls of trees, openings expressly 
designed or kept free for the admission of air are 
never observed. Must the grub, then, which inhabits 
the latter have less need of respiring air than the 
grub of the breeze-flies in a flesh gall ? Without 
doubt, not; but the apertures by which the air is 
admitted to the inhabitants of the woody gall, al- 
though they may escape our notice, in consequence 

* Reaumur, n. 549. 





of their minuteness, are not, in fact, less real. We 
know that however careful we may be in inserting 1 a 
cork into a glass, the mercury with which it is tilled 
is not sheltered from the action of the air, which 
weighs upon the cork ; we know that the air passes 
through, and acts upon the mercury in the tube. 
The air can also, in the same way, penetrate through 
the obstruction of a gall of wood, though it have no 
perceptible opening or crack ; but the air cannot pass 
in this manner so readily through the skins and mem- 
branes of animals. 

In order to see the interior of the cavity of an 
animal gall, Reaumur opened several, either with 
a razor or a pair of scissors ; the operation, however, 
cannot fail to be painful to the cow, and consequently 
it renders it impatient under the process. The grub 
being confined in a tolerably large fistulous ulcer, a 
part of the cavity must necessarily be filled with pus 
or matter. The bump is a sort of cautery, which 
has been opened by the insect, as issues are made by 
caustic : the grub occupies this issue, and prevents it 
from closing. If the pus or matter which is in the ca- 
vity, and that which is daily added to it, had no means 
of escaping, each tumour would become a consider- 
able abscess, in which the grub would perish : but the 
hole of the bump, which admits the entrance of the 
air, permits the pus or matter to escape ; that pus 
frequently matts the hairs together which are above 
the small holes, and this drying around the holes, 
acquires a consistency, and forms in the interior of 
the opening a kind of ring. This matter appears to 
be the only aliment allowed for the grub, for there is 
no appearance that it lives, like the grubs of flesh- 
flies, upon putrescent meat. Mandibles, indeed, simi- 
lar to those with which other grubs break their food, 
are altogether wanting. A beast which has thirty, 
forty, or more of these bumps upon its back, would 







be in a condition of great pain and suffering, terrible 
indeed in the extreme, if its flesh were torn and de- 
voured by as many large grubs ; but there is every 
appearance that they do not at all afflict, or only afflict 
it with little pain. For this reason cattle most covered 
with bumps are not considered by the farmer as in- 
jured by the presence of the fly, which generally se- 
lects those in the best condition. 

A fly, evidently of the same family with the pre- 
ceding, is described in Bruce’s Travels, under the 
name of zimb, as burrowing during its grub state in 
the hides of the elephant, the rhinoceros, the camel, 
and cattle. “ It resembles,” he says, “ the gad-fly in 
England, its motion being more sudden and rapid 
than that of a bee. There is something peculiar in the 
sound or buzzing of this insect; it is a jarring noise 
together with a humming, which as soon as it is 
heard, all the cattle forsake their food and run 
wildly about the plain, till they die, worn out with 
fatigue, fright, and hunger. I have found,” he adds, 
“ some of these tubercles upon almost every ele- 
phant and rhinoceros that I have seen, and attribute 
them to this cause. When the camel is attacked by 
this fly, his body, head, and legs, break out into 
large bosses, which swell, break and putrefy, to the 
certain destruction of the creature That camels 
die under such symptoms, we do not doubt ; but we 
should not without more minutely accurate observa- 
tion trace all this to the breeze-fly. 

MM. Humboldt and Bonpland discovered, in 
South America, a species probably of the same 
genus, which attacks man himself. The perfect in- 
sect is about the size of our common house fly, 
(Musca domesticcS), and the bump formed by the 
grub, which is usually on the belly, is similar to that 



* Bruce’s Travels, i. 5, and v. 191. 



 



caused by the ox breeze-fly. It requires six months 
to come to maturity, and if it is irritated it eats 
deeper into the flesh, sometimes causing fatal inflam- 
mations. 

Grub Parasite in the Snail. 

During the summer of 1829, we discovered in the 
hole of a garden-post, at Blackheath, one of the 
larger grey snail shells ( Helix aspersa , Muller), 
with three white soft-bodied grubs, burrowing in the 
body of the snail. They evidently, from their appear- 
ance, belonged to some species of beetle, and we 
carefully preserved them in order to watch their 
economy. It appeared to us that they had attacked 
the snail in its strong hold, while it was laid up tor- 
pid for the winter ; for more than half of the body 
was already devoured. They constructed for them- 
selves little cells attached to the inside of the shell 
and composed of a sort of fibrous matter, having no 
distant resemblance to shag tobacco, both in form 
and smell, and which could be nothing else than the 
remains of the snail’s body. Soon after we took 
them, appearing to have devoured all that remained 
of the poor snail, we furnished them with another, 
which they devoured in the same manner. They 
formed a cocoon of the same fibrous materials during 
the autumn, and in the end of October appeared in 
their perfect form, turning out to be the Drilus fla- 
vescens the grub of which was first discovered in 
France in 1 824. The time of their appearance, it may 
be remarked, coincides with the period when snails 
become torpid*. 



* J. R. 






The subject of Insect Architecture, to which this 
volume is devoted, forms only one division, though a 
most interesting and important one, of that branch of 
natural history which relates to insects. It presents 
some of the most striking views of their economy ; 
and, as we have endeavoured to render the exam- 
ples of extraordinary instinct with which it abounds 
obvious and familiar to every reader, it precedes 
somewhat naturally a more minute account of the 
physiological part of the science of Entomology, and 
of the benefits and injuries produced to man by in- 
sects, in the respective stages of their existence. The 
present volume is complete in itself ; and we hope 
that few will peruse it without having their attention 
awakened, and their curiosity gratified. It is in- 
tended, however, to follow it up by a second volume, 
to be entitled Insect Transformations. The same 
mode of illustration will be adopted in this projected 
work as in the present volume ; and it is expected 
that the two will form a tolerably complete view, for 
all popular objects, of the Natural History of Insects. 



ILLUSTRATIONS. 



Page 

1 Eggs of Insects, magnified 19 

2 Larvae, Grubs, Caterpillars, or Maggots .. .. . 20 

3 Pupae, or Chrysalides . 21 

4 Insects in the imago or perfect state 22 

5 Mason-wasp . .. .. .. .. .. . 26 

6 Jaws of mason- wasp, magnified 27 

7 Cuckoo-fly .. .. . .. 29 

S Mason-wasp’s nest and cocoons .. . .. .. ib. 

9 Mason- wasp .. .. .. .. .. .. ib. 

10 Nests, &c. of mason-wasps .. . . . .. 31 

11 Mason-bee .. .. 34 

12 Exterior wall of mason-bee’s nest .. . . ib. 

13 Cells of mason-bee’s nest .. .. .. .. .. 35 

14 Varieties in cells of mason-bee’s nests, three figures .. 41 

15 Mason-bee and nest .. .. .. . .. .. 43 

Id Cell of mining-bee . . . . . . . . . . . . ib. 

17 Nests of carpenter-bees, four figures . 49 

18 Carpenter-bee .. .. .. .. .. .. ib. 

19 Teeth of carpenter-bee, magnified .. .. .. . ib. 

20 Nests of carpenter-wasps, two figures .. .. .. 53 

21 Carpenter-wasp ib. 

22 Cocoon of a carpenter-wasp .. .. .• .. ib. 

23 Rose-leaf-cutter-bees, and nest lined with rose-leaves .. 61 

24 Carder-bees heckling moss for their nests .. . . 66 

25 Exterior of the carder bee’s nest .. .. .. .. ib. 

26 Breeding cells of the carder-bee .. . .. .. 68 

27 Interior of carder bee’s nest, two figures .. .. „ . 69 

28 Section of social-wasp’s nest . . .. .. 76 

29 Suspension rod of social-wasp’s nest .. 77 

30 Portion of external crust of social- wasp’s nest .. .. ib. 

31 Hornet’s nest in its first stage .. .. .. .. 80 

32 Singular wasp’s nest .. . .. .. .. .. 82 

33 Wasp’s cells attached to a branch . . . . . . . . 83 

34 Nest of the card-maker-wasp .. . « .. .. 88 

35 Part of a honeycomb and bees at work .. . .. 89 

36 Worker-bee, magnified .. .. .. .. .. 103 

37 Abdomen of wax-working-bee . . . . . . . . . . 104 

38 Structure of the legs of the bee for carrying propolis, &c. 110 

39 Curtain of wax- workers, secreting wax 114 

40 Wax-worker laying the foundation of the first cell . . 117 

41 Curtain of wax-workers .. .. .. .. .. .. 119 

42 Arrangement of cells of hive bees .. .. .. .. 122 

43 Foundation-wall enlarged and the cells commenced .. 125 

44 Ovipositors, with files, of the tree-hopper, magnified .. 150 

45 Excavations for eggs of tree-hopper, with lid raised .. 151 

46 Ovipositor of saw-fly protruded from its sheath, magnified 153 

47 Ovipositor saw of saw-fly, magnified .. .. .. 154 

48 Portion of saw-fly’s comb-toothed rasp, and saw .. 156 

49 Nest of eggs of saw-fly .. . 158 

50 Lilac-tree moth .. .. . .. .. 160 

51 Nest of a lilac-leaf-roller 161 


52. Another nest of lilac-leaf-roller .. .. . . 162 

53 Small green oak-moth .. .. .. .. . .. ib. 

54 Nests of oak-leaf-rolling caterpillars .. .. .. 163 

55 Nest of the nettle-leaf-rolling caterpillars .. .. .. 165 

56 Leaf-rolling caterpillars of the sorrel .. .. .. 168 

57 Nests of the hesperia malva, with caterpillar, chrysalis, &c. 169 

58 Nest of willow-leaf-roller . .. .. .. .. 170 

59 Ziczac caterpillar and nest .. . .. .. 172 

60 Cypress-spurge caterpillars .. . .. .. .. 179 

61 Cocoon of ditto on a branch .. .. . . ib. 

62 Small caterpillar and moss cell of the same .. .. 183 

63 Leaf nest of the caddis-worm .. .. .. . 185 

64 Reed nest of ditto .. .. .. .. .. .. ib. 

65 Aquatic nest of ditto .. .. . .. .. 186 

66 Shell nest of ditto, five figures .. .. .. .. ib. 

67 Stone nest of ditto .. .. .. .. .. .. 187 

68 Sand nest of ditto, balanced with a stone .. .. . ib. 

69 Nest of ditto, balanced with straws . .. .. 188 

70 Caterpillar of goat-motli in a willow tree .. .. .. 189 

71 Winter nest of the goat-caterpillar .. .. .. 190 

72 Nest of goat-moth, raised to shew the pupa .. .. . 191 

73 Eggs of the puss-moth .. .. .. .. .. 192 

74 Rudiments of the cell of the puss-moth .. .. .. 194 

75 Cell built by the larva of the puss-moth .. .. .. 195 

76 Ichneumon .. .. .. .. .. . . .. ib. 

77 Magnified cells of Pyralis strigulalis .. .. .. 198 

78 Nests of earth-mason caterpillars, two figures . .. 201 

79 Earth-mason caterpillars’ nests, caterpillar and moth .. 202 

80 Earth-mason caterpillars’ nests, moth, &c. seven figures .. 205 

81 Nests of the grubs of ephemera, two figures .. .. 206 

82 Grub of ephemera .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ib. 

83 Nests of ephemera in holes of cossus .. .. „ . 207 

84 Grub of the ant-lion, magnified .. .. .. .. 211 

S5 Trap of the ant-lion in different stages, two figures . . ib. 

86 Ant-lions’ pitfalls in an experimenting box .. 212 

87 Cases, &c., of the clothes-moth, and perfect moths .. .. 221 

88 Caterpillar’s tent upon the leaf of an elm .. 224 

89 Tents of the caterpillar in different stages .. . 226 

90 Tents and caterpillars, natural size, and magnified . 228 

91 Branch of the willow with seed spikes .. .. .. 232 

92 Muff tents made of the above cotton .. .. .. ib. 

93 Muff-making caterpillar .. .. .. .. .. .. ib. 

94 Leaf of the monthly rose mined by caterpillars . . 234 

95 Leaf of the dew-berry bramble mimed .. . .. .. 236 

96 Leaf of the primrose mined .. .. .. .. .. 237 

97 Capricorn beetle rounding off the bark of a tree .. .. 240 

98 Mole cricket, with outline of one of its hands . .. 243 

99 Nest of the mole-cricket .. .. .. . .. .. 244 

100 Acrida verrucivora depositing her eggs 246 

101 Artificial hive for observing the mason-ants .. . .. 269 

102 Vertical section of mason-ant’s nest .. .. .. 270 

103 Contrivance of mason-ants to strengthen the buildingof their nest 271 

104 Artificial hive for the wood-ant .. .. .. .. . 276 

105 Portion of a tree, with chambers, &c., chiselled out by jet-ants 281 

106 Warrior-ant in the winged state .. .. . ,, 291 

107 White ant queen distended with eggs .. .. . 295 

108 Covered-way and nest of the termites arborum .. . 300 



109 Section of the liill-nest of the termites bellicosi . .. 300 

110 Hill-nest of the termites bellicosi .. .. .. .. ib. 

1 1 1^ Turret-nests of white-ants .. .. .. .. .. 301 

112 Leg and pro-leg of a caterpillar, greatly magnified .. 307 

113 Caterpillar of the goat- moth .. .. .. .. .. 308 

114 Interior structure of the cossus .. .. .. .. 309 

115 Side view of the silk tube .. .. .. .. .. 310 

116 Section of silk tube magnified .. .. .. .. ib. 

117 Labium or lower lip of cossus .. .. .. .. .. 311 

118 Cocoons of the emperor-moth .. .. .. .. 321 

119 Cocoon of arctia villica .. .. .. .. .. .. 324 

120 Net-work cocoon .. .. .. .. .. .. ib. 

121 Nest of puss-moth, inclosing five cocoons .. .. .. 326 

122 Winter nest of the social caterpillars of the brown-tail moth 330 

123 Winter nests of Porthesia chrysorrhaea. . .. .. .. 331 

124 Pendulous leaf nests .. .. .. .. .. .. 332 

125 Nest and order of marching of the processionary caterpillars 334 

126 Garden spider suspended by a thread from its spinneret .. 336 

127 Spinneret of a spider magnified to show the spinnerules 337 

128 Single thread of a spider greatly magnified .. .. .. ,338 

129 Attached end of a spider’s thread magnified .. .. 339 

130 Geometric net of the garden-spider .. .. .. .. 359 

131 Nests of the mason-spider .. .. .. .. .. 362 

132 The spider, mygale caementaria . .. .. .. .. ib. 

133 The eyes, magnified .. .. .. .. .. .. ib. 

134 Parts of the foot and claw, magnified .. .. .. .. ib. 

135 Triple-clawed foot of a spider, magnified .. .. .. 367 

136 Small berry-shaped galls of the oak-leaf .. .. .. 370 

137 Ovipositor of gall-fly, greatly magnified .. .. .. 372 

138 Gall-fly, and mechanism of ovipositor, greatly magnified 373 

139 Bedeguar gall of the rose, produced by Cynips rosae .. 376 

140 One of the bristles of the bedeguar of the rose, magnified 377 

141 Artichoke gall of the oak-bud, with gall-fly .. .. .. 378 

142 Leafy gall of dyers’s broom 380 

143 Semi-gall of the hawthorn. . .. .. .. .. . 382 

144 Woolly gall of the oak .. .. .. .. .. .. 383 

145 Oak-apple galls, one cut open to shew the vessels .. .. 384 

146 Root-galls of the oak .. .. .. .. .. .. 385 

147 Woody-gall on a willow branch .. .. .. .. .. 386 

148 Currant-gall of the catkins of the oak .. .. .. 3S7 

149 Gall of the hawthorn weevil .. .. .. .. .. 3S9 

150 A plant louse, magnified .. .. 391 

151 Galls produced on the leaves of the poplar, with the various 

forms of the insect, ten figures .. .. . .. 393 

152 Leaf of the currant-bush, bulged out by the Aphis ribes .. 395 

153 Shoot of the lime-tree contorted by the Aphis tiliie . . 396 

154 Pseudo-gall of the bramble .. .. .. .. .. 397 

155 Pseudo-galls of the hawthorn .. .. .. .. 399 

156 Pseudo-gall on the Scotch fir .. .. ib. 

15 7 Ovipositor of the breeze- fly .. .. .. .. 403 

158 Grub of the breeze- fly, four figures .. .. .. .. 410 

159 Fly, maggot, and grub of the ox breeze-fly .. .. 411 

160 Bumps or wurbles produced on cattle . . .. .. 412 



William Clowes, Stamford Street. 








SECTION I EGGS OF INSECTS. 


CHAPTER I. — Introduction 

All insects come from eggs 

Curious experiment of Kircher 

Virpfil’s receipt for niakm^t a swarm of bees 

Origin of these ancient errors . 

Bees in Sampson’s lion accounted for . 

Fancies of Robinet and Darwin . , 

Theory of spontaneous generation 

Popular errors respecting 

Dr. Oood’s account of .... 

No insect eggs afloat in the air 

Specitic gravity of insect eggs . , , 

Theoretical accounts of honey dew . , 

Accounted for by exiieriments 

Instantaneons appearance of insects 

The “ worm i’ the bud ” traced to its egg 

Insectiferous winds ..... 

Supposed showers of frogs, snails, &c. . 

Diffusion of the seeds of plants 

Insects jet out their eggs from fear 

Origin of mosses on walls 

Origin of mould in the heart of an apple 



Physiology of insects’ eggs  

Theory of colours meant for concealment  

Disproved in the case of the eggs of birds  

Illustrated from insect eggs 

Cause of the colours in eggs 

Structure of insects’ eggs. 

Egg*' of ants, spiders, and glow-worms 

Form of insect eggs .

Cause of the oval form in birds’ eggs 

Sciiljitu re ot the eggs of insects 

Curious appendages to eggs  

Eggs with i^oot-s talks 

Number of insect eggs, and their fecundity, compared with 
Other animals 





Maternal care of insects respecting their eggs 

Intitanced in a carpenter bee (Chelostoma) . 
Ichneumons compared to the cnckuo 
Proceeding of a solitary bee (^Jlalictut) • 
Stratagems of a solitary wasp ( Cerccris} 
Ovipositor of an ichneumon (Pimpla) . . 

Experiments of Reaumur . . 

Common mistakes of Naturalists 
Parasite of the cabbage caterpillar (Pontia) 

Egg parasites 

Parasites of the aphides 

Singular parasite of the cork-roach

Rare parasites of bees and wasps 
Tact of insects in discovering food for their young 
Sometimes select exotic plants  
Instanced in a leaf-ininer (Tcphrttis f) 

Solitary and gregarious caterpillars 
Life-boat of eggs constructed by the gnat 

Experiments upon it 

Infallibility of instinct questioned  

Mistakes of instinct 








Hybernation of insects’ eggs 

Proceedings of the gypsey moth compared to the 

Singular groups of eggs 

Protection of eggs from heat 

Anal tweezers of moths 

Eggs in spiral groups 

Arched form of the lackey moth’s eggs 
Hybernation of the eggs of aphides 

Singular protection of the eggs of cocci  

Coccus of the Hawthorn 
Shell-formed coccus of the currant  
Hybernation of spiders’ eggs 

Curious spiders’ nests 

Eggs of the va|x)urer moth on its cocoon 
Effects of cold on insects’ eggs .... 
Observations of John Hunter 
Insects not killed by severe frosts 


eider 


duck 




Hatching of insect eggs 

Structure of the eggs of birds 

Insects do not hatch their eggs 

Anomalous instance of the earwig 

Earwigs eaunot get into the brain 

Partial hatching by spiders  

Experiments upon the wolf spider by Swammerdam and 

Bonnet 

Eggs hatched before they are laid  

Ovo- VI VI paious insects  

Coll of larvw in the Inidy of a blow-fly 

Aphides sometimes produce eggs, sometimes young 

Care taken of these eggs by ants 






Cocco-viviparous flies (Hipjpo6o*cida?) 

Effects of neat upon eggs

Management of silk-worms’ eggs 

Effects of light on eggs  

Some insect eggs increase in size  

Growlh of the eggs of ants 

Dcvelopement of the eggs of spiders 

Spiders live long without food  

Insects probably gnaw through their egg-shells 

Valves of insect eggs

Period of hatching influenced by temperature 




Structure of caterpillars, grubs, and maggots. 

Meanings of these terms ..... 

Supposed transmutation of plants into animals 

Observations of Unger upon this 

Remarks of Bory Sf. Vincent .... 

Supposed formative power ot the blood . 

Embryo butterfly in the caterpillar . . 

Experiments to shew this .... 

Dissections of the buds of plants .... 

Dilterence of plants from insects • . 

Internal structure of caterpillars .... 

Breathing. tubes and formation of their blood 
Colours of caterpillars not intended for concealment 
ImitHtive forms of caterpillars .... 

Walking-leaf insect 

Caterpillars in form of branches 
Conspicuously coloured caterpillars 

Butterflies supposed to be coloured like flowers . 
Singular forms of caterpillars 

Forms of water-grubs

Breathing organs in wafer larvae 
Water uorins {Nam) may be mistaken for larvm . 
Syringe for respiration in a wafer larva , 

Curious mask of the same larva 

Dubt mask ol (he wolf bug {Kcduriui) 



Growth, moulting, strength, defence, and hybernation of larvae 
Progressive increase of the silk-Avonii ... 
Compared with the grovvth of buds .... 
Process of moulting or casting the skin ... 
Accidents interrupt this process. .... 

Reds, a disorder .similar to renal gravel. . 

Position of the hairs in moulting .... 
Casting of the interior lining of the stomach, Scv. . 

JMoiiltmg of birds 

Cast skins sometimes devoured . . . . . 

Mis-statement of Goldsmith 

Contrivances for escape from confinement 
Muscular strength of insects 





Pape 

Fleas made to draw miniatare coaches 

Numerous muscles of the 

Its wonderful strength 

Mis-statements respecting the strength of insects 

Means of escape by spinning 

Defensive hairs and spines of caterpillars 

Kxorementitious covering of some larvie 

Origin of the froth on plants called 

Winter covering of caterpillars 

Fat a probable defence against cold 



Voracity of caterpillars, grubs, and maggots 

Increase of weight in the silk-worm in thirty days 

Remarkable change in the capacity of the stomach 

Instances of human voracity  

Jaws or luaiidiblcs of larvm  

Caterpillars  

Jihglit caused by an oak-leaf- roller

Ravages of the buff-till 

Kncauiping caterpillars of the ermine moths  

Experinents with these 

Extraordinary ravages of the brown-tail moth  

Strange enactment of the J’arliamenl of Pans
Cause of the abundance of caterpillar in particular years 

Alarm caused 111 France by the gamma moth

Calculation of their fecundity  

Cabbage caterpillars prefer weeds

Disappearance of the black-veined white butterfly 

Ravages of the caterpillar of the goobeberry saw-fly 

Similar ravages emninitled on other trees

Slug worm of North America 

Turnip fly erroneously fancied to come across the sea to Norfolk  
Effects of JEgeria* on currant and poplar trees  

Destruction of gram by Euplue.ami and Tineae 

Bee hives injured by (iallariPB 

Caterpillar which feeds on chocolate 

. 

Voracity of grubs 225 

Grill) of the cockchafer or may-bug 

Account of Us transformation, N.C. 
Methods of destroying 

Wire worm the grub of Heiuirhi pus 

Probable mistake respecting the destruction of wheat 

Pea beetle of North America  

Corn weevil

Weal worm, the gnil) of 'J’enebrio molitor  

Tabby moth caterpillar devours butter and fat  

Intestinal worms  

Mistakes of Linnmus, Dr. Barry, and Dr. J. P. Frank 

Experiment of M.Dcslonchainjis 

Extraordinary i-asc of A1 ary iiiordan, by Dr. Pickells 

Authenticity of this case proved

Fruit grubs

Nut weevil audits transformatious  





Apple-bud weevil  

Voracity of Calosoma  

Hayed pfallenes of a bark-grub 

Ravages of locusts  

Their swarms in Southern Africa 

The Italian locust  

Migrations in Palestine and Europe  



Voracity of maggots

Maggots of crane flies popularly called the grub 

Remarkable ovipositor  

Destruction of herbage on Blackheath 

Similardevastations in Poitou and Holderness 

Wheat fly, described by Mr. Shireff 

Additional particulars by Mr. Gorrie 

Observations of Kirby 

Mistake of Mr. Markwick  

Hessian fly, as described by Mr. Say  

Cheese-hopper the maggot of rioplula 

Wonderful structure of this maggot

Its transformation into a fly 

Origin of the hou.se fly (Aittsca dowesficfl)  

Mistakes of Ray and Reaumur 

Voracity of the maggots of blow flies  

Instance of man devoured by them. 
Popular mistake respecting lady-birds 

Their tran.sforfnation.s traced to the egg  

Aphides checked by these and by Syrphidm  


 


Mechanism of suspending chry.salide.s 

Proceedings of larvw upon their approaching change  

In what manner some caterpillars suspend themselves 

Their attempts sometimes unsuccessful 

Organ for holding fast 

Siispen.sory cincture of other caterpillars

Method of forming this by the swallow-tail 

Parchment-like ]»upa case of flies (A/MScidcr) 

Flask-shaped ])up!B of Syrnhidm 

Transformations of a Tipulidan gnat  
Mode by which the nymph is suspended 

Hooked aquatic pupa (Z/^drocampaO 




Form and structure of pupae 

The term metamorphosis objected to 
Harvey’s fancies about transmutation 

Similar fancies of Goedart exposed by Sw'aininerdam , 

Structure of the jiupa of the chameleon fly 

Pupa of the lappit moth ..... 

Chrysalis and transformations of the peacock butterfly 

Origin of philosophic errors ..... 

Changes produced on pupae by evaporation . • 





Objections to the theory of evaporation. 

Respiratory organs of pup» ..

Experiments upon the breathing of pupae  

Valves of the spiracles 

Breathing apparatus in the pupae of aquatic crane flies and gnats 
Plumed apparatus of the blood-worm  




Transformation of pupm into perfect insects  

Theory of transpiration by means of heat  
Objections to this theory 

Experiments by Kcaumur 

Chrysalides hatched under a hen 

Forcing of butterflies in winter 

Retarding the evolution of butterflies by cold 

Experiments on pupae led to the varnishing of eggs 
Illustrations of torpidity in animals and plants 

Various periods of disclosure in the same brood 

Supposed final cause of this 

Fixed time of the day for some insects to be evolved 
Remarhabic evolution of the gnat
Still more remarkable instance of the blood-worm. 

Netted doors in the pupa cases of caddis-flies 

Bellows-apparatus m the pupa of the blow-fly 
Contrivance in the pupao of wood- feeders  

Singularity in the locust moth 

Ingenious contrivance in a small leaf -roller 
Mistake of Bonnet with respect to the teazle-moth
Pupa eases ojiened by extraneous assistance 
Observations on this by the younger Huber 

Exyieriinent by Dr. J. R. .lobnson .... 

De Geer’s observations contrary to those of Swammerdam 
Remarkable circumstance in the hive bee . 





Expansion of the body and wings in insects newly transformed 

Structure of birds to contain air 

Expansion in the fly oi the ant-lion 

'J'he mandibles prove it carnivurous 

Transformations of dragon-flies 

Folded wings of some two-winged flies 

Maljughi’s account of the transtormations of the silk-worm  

Impulsion of fluids into the wings 

Kirby’s account of the expansion of the swallow-tailed butterfly  
Swammerdam's acecmnl of the wings of the bee 

Air-tubes in insects’ wings

Nervures in the wings ot plumed moths

Perfect insects do not increase in size 

Imperfect insects from fallen chrysalides 

Discharges from newly-evolved insects 

SuppobM bhowers of blood accounted fur .





Theories devised to account for crimson-snow . 
Curious fact explaining; this, by Mr. T. Nicholson , 
Does not explain the fed snow of the Alps , 




Peculiar motions of insects . . 

Motion indispensable to life , , 

Anecdote of a water-measurer 
Mode of combing themselves used by spiders 
Oscillatory motions of some tipulidae . , 

Vibratory motions of syrphi on the wing . 
Similar motions of hawks, red-breast, &c. . 
Experiment on Sr.iopfcra viltrans , . 

Illustrated by the wag-tail, &c. . . , 

Gnat dances in winter .... 
Opinion of Wordsworth and others 
Similar aifrial dances of rooks . 
Night-gambols of Curethresf on a book 
Circular movements of a summer fly 
Sjiortive movements not necessarily social . 
Account of the whirlwig, by Kirby and by Kni 
Remarkable structure of its eyes . 

Battles of butterflies .... 
Choral assemblies of ephemeridae 
Account of these by Reaumur . , 

Sports of ants 

Gymnastics of ants, according to Huber 




Peculiar locomotions of insects 

Examples from quadrupeds 

Singular movements of some plant-bugs .

Sailing of the whirlwig beetle 

Walking on water by spiders, &c. 

Walking through water by aquatic mites .... 
Oblique pace of midges 

Insect with its legs on its back 

Rapid galloping of the strawberry mite .... 
Slow movements of the oil-beetlcs 

Supposed sponges in the foot of the fly 

Correct notions of Derham and White, proved by Sir E. Home 

Apparatus in the feet of flies 

Leaping mubcles of the flea ...... 

Leaping of grasshoppers and springtails • . • . 

Springing ot spiders on their prey 

Plight of insects 

Mechanism of insects’ wings and their muscles, .'Ktcordiiig to 
M. Chabner 

Plying ol spiders without wings • 




Rest of insects .... 
Night insects rest in the day 





Day movements of other insects 

Insects have no brain nor spinal cord . , 

Want also a proper heart as well as blood , 

Supposed pulse in insects 

Ne circulation 

Allegfed discovery of an insect circulation, by Dr. Carus 
How the circulation is affected in the sleep of man , 
The same effects cannot take place in insects . 
Sleep of senses not equally profound . • • . 

Torpidity of insects in winter 

Hybernation of ants 

Anecdotes from Huber 

Hybernation of bees 

Discrepancies of opinion among naturalibts , 
Hybernation ol the hearth cricket .... 






All Insects come from Eggs as Plants do from Seeds. — Vulgar errors 
of Insects being generated by Putrefaction and Blighting Winds dis- 
proved by experiment. 

It was universally believed by the ancient philoso- 
phers, that magg'ots, flies, and other insects were 
g-enerated from putrefying substances. This opinion 
continues to be held by uninformed persons among 
ourselves ; — though it would be equally correct to 
maintain, that a flight of vultures had been generated 
by the dead carcass which they may be seen devouring, 
or a flock of sheep from the grass-field in which they 
graze. Another opinion, perhaps still more generally 
diffused, is that caterpillars, aphides, and other garden 
insects which destroy the leaves of plants, are gene- 
rated, propagated, or, at least, spread about, by certain 
winds or states of the air, mysteriously and inde- 
finitely termed blight. The latter belief is, probably, 
not so easy of immediate refutation as the former ; — 
but, as we shall endeavour to shew, it seems to us to 
be equally erroneous. 

The small size of insects renders it somewhat easy 
to pass off fanciful opinions regarding them, since it 
is difficult for common observers to detect mistakes ; 




but similar notions have been entertained by writers 
of no mean reputation, respecting even the larger 
animals. The celebrated Kircher, for example, one 
of the most learned men of the seventeenth century, 
goes so far as to give the following singular recipe 
for the manufacture of snakes: — 

“ Take some snakes,** says he, “ of whatever kind 
you want, roast them, and cut them in small pieces, 
and sow those pieces in an oleaginous soil ; then, 
from day to day, sprinkle them lightly with water 
from a watering-pot, taking care that the piece of 
ground be exposed to the spring sun, and in eight 
days you will see the earth strewn with little worms, 
which, being nourished with milk diluted with 
water, will gradually increase in size till they take 
the form of perfect serpents. This,” he subjoins 
with great simplicity, “ I learned from having found 
in the country the carcase of a serpent covered with 
worms, some small, others larger, and others again 
that had evidently taken the form of serpents. It 
was still more marvellous to remark, that among 
these little snakes, and mixed as it were with them, 
were certain flies, which I should take to be engen- 
dered from that substance which constituted the 
aliment of the snakes*.** 

Kircher’s more shrewd and less fanciful cor- 
respondent, Redi, determined to prove this singular 
recipe before he trusted to the authority of his friend. 
“ Moved,’* he says, “by the authentic testimony of 
this most learned writer, I have frequently tried the 
experiment, but I could never witness the genera- 
tion of those blessed snakelets made to handf.** 
But though Redi could not, in this way, produce a 
brood of snakes, his experiments furnished an 
abundant progeny of maggots, — the same, miques- 

? Athan. Kircher, Mund. Subterran. lib. xii. 
f Redi, Generat. Insectorum, edit. Amstel. 1G86. 





tionably, that the imagination of Kircher had mag- 
nified into young snakes, — which, being confined in 
a covered box, were in a short time transformed into 
flies, at first of a dull ash colour, wrinkled, un- 
finished, and their wings not yet unfolded, — as is 
always the case with winged insects just escaped 
from their pupa case. In less than an hour, how- 
ever, they “ unfolded their wings and changed into 
a vivid green, marvellously brilliant” — most pro- 
bably the green flesh-fly {Musca Cceaar, Linn.) 

It is a common opinion in this country, particu- 
larly in the north, that if a horse’s hair be put into 
the water of a spring or a ditch, it will be in process 
of time transformed, first into a hair-worm, and 
afterwards into an eel. The deception, as in the 
instance of Kircher’s snakes, arises from the close 
resemblance between a hair and the hair-worm 
{Gordius aquaticns, Linn.), and between this and 
a young eel. This fabled transformation of hair, 
which we have heard maintained even by several 
persons of good education, is physically impossible 
and absurd. 

The method laid down by Virgil in his Georgies 
for generating a swarm of bees is precisely of the 
same description as the snake recipe of Kircher ; and 
though the “ Episode of Aristaeus recovering his 
bees ” has been pronounced to be “ perhaps the 
finest piece of poetry in the world,” we must be 
permitted to say that it is quite fabulous and un- 
philosophical. The passage r\ins thus : — 

Oft from putrid gore of cattle slain 
Bees have been bred. * ^ * A narrow place, 

And for that use contracted, first they choose, 

Then more contract it, in a narrower room. 

Wall’d round, and cover’d with a low built roof. 

And add four windows, of a slanting light 
From the four winds. A b]LiUock then is sought, 

His horns just bending in their second year ; 





Him, much reluctant, with o’erpow’ringf orce. 

They bind ; his mouth and nostrils stop, and all 
The avenues of respiration close ; 

And buffet him to death: his hide no wound 
Receives ; his batter’d entrails burst within. 

Thus spent they leave him ; and beneath his sides 
Lay shreds of boughs, fresh lavender and thyme. 

This, when soft zephyr’s breeze first curls the wave, 

And prattling swallows hang their nests on high. 
Meanwhile the juices in the lender bones 
Heated ferment ; and, wondrous to behold, 

Small animals, in clusters, thick are seen, 

Short of their legs at first: on filmy wings, 

Humming, at length they rise; and more and more 
Fan the thin air; ’till, numberless as drops 
Pour’d down in rain from summer clouds, they fly. 

Trapp’s Virgil, Georg, iv. 369. 

Columella, a Roman writer on rural affairs, after 
directing; in what manner honey is to be taken from 
a hive by killing the bees, says, that if the dead bees 
be kept till spring;, and then exposed to the sun 
among; the aslies of the fig;-trec, properly pulverised, 
they may be restored to life. 

These fancies have evidently originated from mis- 
taking certain species of flies (^Syrphi^ Bomhylii^ 
&c.) for bees, v/hich, indeed, they much resemble in 
general api)earaiicc ; though they have only two 
wings, and ahort antennae, while all bees have ybi/r 
wings, and long antenna'. Neither the flies nor the 



Comparative lignres of a bee (a) and a syrphus (h). 


bees arc produced by putrefaction ; — but as the flies 
are found about animal bodies in a state of decom- 
position, the ancients fell into an error which accurate 
observation alone could explode. The maggots of 




blow-flies, as Swammerdam remarks, so often 
found in the carcasses of animals in summer, “ some- 
what resemble those produced by the eggs of 
bees. However ridiculous,” he adds, “ the opinion 
must appear, many great men have not been 
ashamed to adopt and defend it. The industrious 
Goedart has ventured to ascribe the origin of 
bees to certain dunghill worms*, and the learned 
De Mei joins with him in this opinion ; though 
neither of them had any observation to ground their 
belief upon, but that of the external resemblance 
between bees and certain kinds of flies {Syrphidai) 
produced from those worms. The mistake of such 
authors should teach us,” he continues, “to use 
great caution in our determinations concerning 
things which we have not thoroughly examine^ 
or at least to describe them with all the circum- 
stances observable in them. Therefore, although 
this opinion of bees issuing from the carcasses of 
some other animals by the power of putrefaction, 
or by a transposition of parts, be altogether absurd, 
it has had, notwithstanding, many followers, who 
must have in a manner shut their eyes in order to 
embrace it. But whoever will attentively consider 
how many requisites there are for the due hatching 
of the bee’s egg, and for its subsistence in the grub 
state, cannot be at a loss for a clue to deliver himself 
out of that labyrinth of idle fancies and unsupported 
fables, which, entangled with one another like a 
Gordian knot, have even to this day obscured the 
beautiful simplicity of this part of natural historyt.” 

Redi was by no means satisfied with the first results 
of his experiments upon the flesh of snakes, for several 

* The roag^gots of Eristalis ienax, Fabr. E. apiformis, Meigen, 
and other Syrphidee, well known in common sewers by their 
long tails, like those of rats. 

f Swaminerd. Book of Nature, i. 228. 




species of flies were produced, ^ivin^ some coun- 
tenance to the opinion of Aristotle, Pliny, Mouffet, 
and others, that different flesh eng^enders different 
flies, inheriting: the disposition of the animal they are 
bred from. He according:ly tried almost every 
species of flesh, fish, and fowl, both raw and cooked, 
and soon discovered (as he could not fail to do) that 
the same mag:g:ots and flies were produced indis- 
criminately in all. This ultimately led him to 
ascertain that no mag’gfots are ever g:enerated except 
from eggs laid by the parent flies: for when he 
carefully covered uj) pieces of meat with silk or 
paper sealed down with wax, no mag:g:ots were 
seen ; but the parent flies, attracted by the smell of 
the covered meat, not unfrequently laid their eggs 
on the outside of the paper or silk, the maggots 
hatched from these dying, of course, for want of 
nourishment. 

With respect to bees, it becomes even more absurd 
to refer their generation to putrefaction, when we 
consider that they uniformly manifest a peculiar 
antipathy to dead carcasses. This was remarked so 
long ago as the time of Aristotle and of Pliny * ; 
and Varro asserts that bees never alight upon an 
unclean place, nor upon any thing which emits an 
unpleasant smell. This is strikingly exemplified in 
their carrying out of the hive the bodies of their 
companions who chance to die there ; and in their 
covering over with propolis tlie bodies of snails, 
micef, and other small animals which they cannot 
remove J. 

These facts, which are unquestionable, may at 
first view appear to contradict the Scripture history 

• Aristotle, Hist. Animal, ix. 40. Pliny says, “Omnes carnc 
vescuntur, contra quam apes, quae nullum corpus attingunt.** 

f Huivli on Bees, p. 100. 

t Insect Architecture, p. 109. 





of Samson, who, having killed a yoiin^ lion in the 
vineyards of Timnath, “after a time turned aside to 
see the carcass of the lion : and behold a swarm of 
bees and honey in the carcass*” It only requires 
us, however, to examine the facts, to shew that 
this docs not disac^ree with the preceding statement. 
Bochart, in his Sacred Zoology, tells us that the 
word rendered “ carcass ” literally signifies skeleton ; 
and the Syriac version still more strongly renders 
it a dried body (corpus exsiccatiim). Bochart fur- 
ther contends, that the phrase “after a time’* is one 
of the commonest Hebraisms for a year. But when 
we consider the rapid desiccation caused by the sum- 
mer suns of Palestine, this extension of time will be 
unnecessary ; for travellers tell us that the bodies of 
dead camels become quite parched there in a few 
days. We have the testimony of Herodotus, that a 
swarm of bees built their cells and made honey in 
the dried carcass of a man placed above the gate of 
Athamanta. Soranus also tells us of a swarm of 
bees found in the tomb of the celebrated Hippocrates. 
“ I have been told,’* says Redi, “ by Albergotto, a 
man of profound erudition, that he had seen a swarm 
in the cranium of a horse. Bees,” he adds, “not 
only do not live upon dead bodies, but they will not 
even come near them, as 1 have oltcn proved by ex- 
periment.” “ It is probable,’* says Swammerdam, 
“ that the not rightly understanding Samson’s ad- 
venture of the lion gave rise to the popular opinion 
of bees springing from dead lions, oxen, and horses.** 
Kirby and Spence seem disposed to consider Samson’s 
bees, as we have done those of Virgil, to be flies 
resembling bees; but the “honey** which Samson 
“ took in his hands and went on eating,*’ is fatal to 
such an exposition. 

The ancients had another fancy respecting the 
? J udges, xiv. 8. 






propagation of bees, equally absurd, though much 
more poetical. Virgil tells us that, 

From herbs and fragrant flowers, with their mouths 
They cull their young. Georg, iv. 

Aii^Otle* had long before stated, and De Monfort 
in modern times repeated the assertion t, that the 
olive, the cerinthus, and some other plants, have the 
property of generating young bees from their purest 
juices. We may well say, with Lactantius, that 
“they make shipwreck of their wisdom, who adopt 
without judgment the opinions of their ancestors, 
and allow themselves to be led by others like a flock 
of sheep J.” Modern naturalists, being accustomed 
to minute accuracy in their observations, can both 
disprove and readily explain most of those erroneous 
fancies, by tracing the causes which led, and may 
still lead, inaccurate observers into such mistakes. 

It would have been well if such unfounded fancies 
had rested here ; but philosophical theorists, both of 
ancient and modern times, have promulgated dreams 
much more extravagant. The ancients taught that 
the newly-formed earth (hatched as some said from 
an egg) clothed itself with a green down like that 
on young birds, and soon after men began to sprout 
up from the ground as we now see mushrooms do. 
The refined Athenians were so firmly convinced of 
their having originally sprung up in this manner, 
that they called themselves “ Earth-born ” {Erich-- 
thonii)y and wore golden tree-hoppers {Cicadm) in 
their hair, erroneously supposing these insects to 
have a common origin with themselves §. Lucretius 

* Hist. Animal, v. 22. 

f Le Portrait de la Mouche a Miel. Liege, 1646. 

J Divin. Instit. ii. 7 ; in Redi’s motto. Shepherds on the con- 
tinent lead their sheep, as those of Israel did. See Menageries, 
vol. i. p. 81. 

5 The Cicadae do not deposit their eggs in the earth, but on 
trees, &c. See Insect Architecture^ chap. vii. 




affirms, that even in his time, when the earth was 
supposed to be growing too old to be reproductive, 
“ many animals were concreted out of mud by 
shoAvers and sunshine^.’’ 

But the ancients, it would appear, had^the 
shrewdness seldom to venture upon illustrations of 
their philosophical romances by particular examples. 
This was reserved for the more reckless theory- 
builders of our own times. We find Robinet, for 
example, asserting that, as it was nature’s chief 
object to make man, she began her “ apprentissage,” 
as he calls it, by forming minerals resembling the 
single organs of the human body, such as the brain 
in the fossil called Braiii-stone (Meandrina cerebri^ 
formis, Parkinson f). Darwin, again, taking the 
hint from Epicurus, dreams that animals arose from 
a single filament or threadlct of matter, which, by 
its efforts to procure nourishment, lengthened out 
parts of its body into arms and other members. 
For example, after this filament had improved itself 
into an oyster, and been by chance left dry by the 
ebbing of the tide, its efibrts to reach the water 
again expanded the parts nearest to the sea into arms 
and legs. If it tried to rise from its native rocks, 
the efforts produced wings, and it became an insect, 
which in due course of time imi)roved itself by fresh 
efforts till it became a bird, the more perfect members 
being always hereditarily transmitted to the progeny. 
Tlie different forms of the bills of birds, whether 
liooked, broad, or long, were, he says, gradually 
acquired by the perpetual endeavours of the creatures 
to supply their wants. The long-legged water- 

? Multaqiie nunc cli<am cxistunt anirnalia terris, 

Imbribus ct calido soils coricreta vapore. 

De Nut, Her. v. 795. 

f Robinet, Consid. Philosophiques de la Gradation Naturelle 
des Formes de I’Etrc. Paris, 176y. 





fowl (Grallatores, Vigors) in this way acquired 
length of legs sufficient to elevate their bodies above 
the water in which they waded. “A proboscis,” he 
says, “ of admirable structure has thus been acquired 
by the bee, the moth, and the humming-bird, for 
the purpose of plundering the nectaries of flowers*.” 
Lamarck, an eminent French naturalist, recently 
deceased, adopted the same visions ; and, among other 
illustrations of a similar cast, he tells us that the 
giraffe acquired its long neck by its efforts to browse 
on the high branches of trees, which, after the lapse of 
a few thousand years, it successfully accomplished. 

Theories like the preceding all originate in the en- 
deavours of human ingenuity to trace the operations 
of nature farther than ascertained facts will warrant; 
and the necessary blanks in such a system, which 
presupposes much that cannot be explained, are 
filled up by the imagination. This inability to 
trace the origin of minute plants and insects led 
to the doctrine of what is called spontaneous or 
equivocal generation, of which the fancies above- 
mentioned are some of the prominent branches. 
The experiments of Redi on the hatching of insects 
from eggs, which were published at Florence in 
1668, first brought discredit upon this doctrine, 
though it had always a few eminent disciples. At 
present it is maintained by a considerable num- 
ber of distinguished naturalists, such as Blumen- 
bach, Cuvier, Bory de St. Vincent, R. Brown, 
&c. “ The notion of spontaneous generation,” 

says Bory, “ is at first revolting to a rational mind, 
but it is, notwithstanding, demonstrable by the 
microscope. The fact is averred : Muller has seen 
it, 1 have seen it, and twenty other observers have 
seen it : the Pandorinia exhibit it every instant t.’ 

* Darwin’s Zoonomia, sect, xxxix. 3d edit. London, 1801. 

t Diet. Classique d‘ Hist, Nat., Art. Microscopiques, p. 541, 




These pandorinia he elsewhere describes as probably 
nothing more than animated scions of Zoocarpee 
(propagules animes des Zoocarpes)*. It would 
be unprofitable to go into any lengthened dis- 
cussion upon this mysterious subject ; and we have 
great doubts whether the ocular demonstration by the 
microscope would succeed except in the hands of a 
disciple of the school. Even with naturalists, whose 
business it is to deal with facts, the reason is often 
wonderfully influenced by the imagination. 

But the question immediately before us happily 
does not involve these recondite discussions; for 
if even pandorinia and other animalcules were 
proved beyond a doubt to originate in the play of 
chemical affinities or galvanic actions — (a more 
refined process, it must be confessed, than Kircher’s 
chopped snakes), it would not aflect our doctrine that 
all insects are hatched from eggs : for no naturalist 
of the present day classes such animalcules among 
insects. Leaving animalcules and zoophytes, there- 
fore, out of the question, we have only to examine 
such branches of the theory of spontaneous genera- 
tion as seem to involve the propagation of genuine 
insects, — like the fancies about putrefaction which 
we have seen refuted. 

The notion that small insects, such as aphides 
and the leaf-rolling caterpillars, are spread about, or 
rather generated, by what is termed blight (possibly 
from the Belgic hlinkan, to strike with lightning), 
is almost universally believed even by the most 
intelligent, if they have not particularly studied the 
habits of insects. Mr. Main, of Chelsea, an ingenious 
and well-informed gardener and naturalist, describes 
this as an “ easterly wind, attended by a blue mist. 
The latter is called a blight, and many people 
imagine that the aphides are wafted through the 
* Diet. Class., Art. Pandorin6es. 






air by this same mist^/’ “The farmer,” says 
Keith, “supposes these insects are wafted to him 
on the east wind, while they are only generated in 
the extravasated juices as forming a proper nidus for 
their eggst.” A more detailed account, however, 
is given by the late Dr. Mason Good, and as he 
speaks in part from personal observation, and was 
not only one of the most learned men of his time, 
but an excellent general naturalist, his testimony 
merits every attention : — 

“ That the atmosphere,” says Dr. Good, “ is 
freighted with myriads of insect eggs that elude our 
senses, and that such eggs, when they meet with a 
proper bed, are hatched in a few hours into a perfect 
form, is clear to any one who has attended to the 
rapid and wonderful eflects of what, in common lan- 
guage, is called a blight upon plantations and gar- 
dens. I have seen, as probably many who read this 
work have also, a hop-ground completely overrun 
and desolated by the apJm limnuli, or hop green - 
louse, within twelve hours after a honey-dew (which 
is a peculiar haze or mist loaded with poisonous 
miasm) has slowly swept through the plantgtion, 
and stimulated the leaves of the liop to the morbid 
secretion of a saccharine and viscid juice, which, 
while it destroys the young shoots by exhaustion, 
renders them a favourite resort for this insect, and a 
cherishing nidus for myriads of little dots that are its 
eggs. The latter are hatched within eight and forty 
hours after their deposit, and succeeded by hosts of 
other eggs of the same kind ; or, if the blight take 
place in an early part of the autumn, by hosts of the 
young insects produced viviparously ; for, in different 
seasons of the year, the aphis breeds both ways. 
Now it is highly probable that there are minute 

* Loudon’s Mag. of Nat. Hist. i. 180. 
f Keith’s Physiological Botany, ii. 48G. 








eggs, or ovula, of innumerable kinds of animalcules 
floating by myriads of myriads through the atmo- 
sphere, so diminutive as to bear no larger proportion 
to the eggs of the aphis than these bear to those of 
the wren or the liedge-sparrow ; protected at the 
same time from destruction, by the filmy integument 
that surrounds them, till they can meet with a proper 
nest for their reception, and a proper stimulating 
power to quicken them into life ; and which, with 
respect to many of them, are only found obvious to the 
senses in ditferent descriptions of animal fluids^.” 

It appears to us that it can be nothing more than 
a fancy, which is quite unsupported by evidence, to 
say that the eggs of any species of animalcules or 
insects float about in the atmosphere; for, inde- 
pendent of their weight, (every known species being 
greatly heavier than air,) the parent insects of every 
species whose history has been accurately investi- 
gated manifest the utmost anxiety to deposit their 
eggs upon or near the appropriate food of the young. 
To commit them to the winds would be a complete 
dereliction of this invariable law of insect economy. 
But admitting for a moment this hypothesis, that the 
eggs of insects are diflused through the atmosphere, 
the circumstance must be accompanied with two 
conditions, — the eggs must either be dropped by the 
parents while on the wing, or be carried off by winds 
from the terrestrial substances upon which they may 
have been deposited. 

On the supposition that the eggs are dropped by the 
mother insects while on the wing, we must also admit 
(for there is no avoiding it) that they continue to 
float about, unhatched, from the end of the summer 
till the commencement of spring, at which time only 
the broods make their appearance. Yet when we 

* Good’s Study of Medicine, v, i., p, 339, 3rd edition, London, 
1829. 

 


consider the rains, snows, and winds, to which they 
must be exposed for six or nine months, we think 
the hardiest theorist would scarcely maintain that a 
single egg could out-weather these vicissitudes, and 
continue to float in the air. It may not be out of 
place to remark, that the female aphides, which deposit 
eggs in autumn, have no wings. 

Again, on the supposition that the eggs are de- 
posited on plants, trees, or other objects, it is still 
more unlikely that they could be carried into the air ; 
for, on exclusion, they are, with very few exceptions *, 
enveloped in an adhesive cement which glues them 
to the spot on which they are deposited. When 
eggs are deposited singly, this cement usually enve- 
lopes each with a thin coating, as in the instance of 
the admirable butterfly (Vanessa Atalanta); but 
when they are placed in a group the cement is 
sometimes spread over the whole, as in the instance 
of the white satin moth (Leucoma salicis, Ste- 
phens). This cement is evidently intended by 
Nature (who seldom accommodates her plans to 
our theories) to prevent the eggs from being carried 
from the place selected by the mother insect for their 
deposition. Those eggs, therefore, which are placed 
on the outside of substances, have this provision 
for their secure attachment to the locality chosen by 
the instinct of the mother. But, on the contrary, 
the principle does not always hold in the case of those 
deposited in nests and excavations, and particularly as 
to those of ants and termites. The working ants, in- 
deed, carry the eggs from the top to the bottom of 
their galleries, according as the weather is favourable 
or unfavo\irable for hatching. The labourers of the 
white ants (Termites), again, attend their queen with 
the utmost care wlien she is laying ; for as she can- 
not then move about, they are under the necessity 
* latreille, HisUGener., xiv.; p, 342. 





of carrying off the eggs, as they are laid, to the 
nurseries. The extraordinary labour which this re- 
quires in the community may be understood, when, 
according to Smeathman, she lays 60 eggs in a 
minute, which will amount to 86,400 in a day, and 
31,536,000 in a year. The exceptions now men- 
tioned, however, do not in the least invalidate our 
general position. 



Cell of a qupon of the Termites belhcosi, broken open in front; 
the labourers surrounding the queen and carrying off her eggs. 


Another no less remarkable circumstance is the 
great weight, or specific gravity, of the eggs of in- 
sects. From numerous experiments we may venture 
to say that those of all the species which we have 
tried sink rapidly in water the moment they are 
thrown into it, from the egg of the drinker moth 
{Odojiesiis Puiatoria, Germar), which is nearly as 
large as a hemp-seed, to that of the rose-plant louse 
(^Aphis rosiE), which is so small as to be barely visible 
to the naked eye. Some eggs of the gipsey moth 
{Hypogymna dispar, Stephens), indeed, floated in 
water, because they were covered with down. It is 
well known, as we shall presently shew, that the dif- 
fusion of many of the seeds of plants is accomplished 
by the winged down with which they are clothed ; 




but the down upon the e^^s of insects does not 
conduce to this end. Whether insect ep;^s be naked 
or clothed with down, they are invariably, as far as 
their history has been invcstip^ated, deposited close to 
or upon substances capable of affording; food to the 
youngs when hatched. In making; experiments upon 
the specific g’ravity of egrg^s, it should be remembered 
that no infertile or uuimpregmated eg;g; will sink; 
for Ijaving; some hundreds of these laid by dif- 
ferent species of insects reared in our cabinet, 
we found, upon trial, that they uniformly floalcd, 
while those which w^e knew to be imprej^nated 
as uniformly sunk. A female, for example, of the 
rose-leaf roller (^Lozotamia Rosana, Stephens) 
was reared by us, in solitude, under an inverted 
wine-g;lass, upon the side of which she g*lued a 
patch of eg;gs, of course, unimpregnated : these, upon 
trial, all floated in water. But eggs of the same 
species taken from the outside of a pane of glass 
close to a rose-tree, all sunk in water ; and it is to be 
fairly presumed, as the parent of the latter was in a 
state of freedom, that these were impregnated. We 
found the same distinction, indeed, to hold in the 
eggs of the drinker moth, the gypsey moth, and 
numerous other insects^'. 

Dr. Good’s account of “ honey-dew,” which he 
describes as “ a peculiar haze or mist loaded with a 
poisonous miasm,” that stimulates “ the leaves of the 
hop to the morbid secretion of a saccharine and viscid 
juice” — appears to us unsupported by facts. Lin- 
ujEust, on the contrary, who w^as not wedded to the 
meteorological theory of a miasinatous haze, ascribes 
the honey-dew on the hop leaves to the caterpillar of 
the ghost moth (Hcpialiis Jii/myli) attacking the roots. 
Dr. Withering, favouring this account, recommends 
covering the roots with stones as a preventive ; for 

* J. R. t Quoted by Keith, Phys. Bot., ii. 143. 






the caterpillars, he avers, never attack wild hops 
which p^row in stony places, because they cannot 
get at the roots It appears to us, however, that 
there can be little doubt that tlie sweet syrupy 
coating, called honey-dew, found on the leaves of 
the hop, is nothing more than the excrement of 
the insect {Aphia fwmnU) whose propagation we 
arc discussing. “ The honey-dew,” says Loudon, 
“ moslly” (we believe always) “occurs after the crops 
have been attacked by these insects ’’ t- SirJ.E. 
Smith, who admits this to be the common cause of 
honey-dew, contends that what is found on the leaves 
of the beech is an exception; but he adduces no 
evidence at all satisfactory in proof of its being 
caused by unfavourable winds J ; while the undoubted 
fact of its being the excrement of aphides in so many 
other instances § weighs strongly against him. 

A novel theory of honey-dew has just been pub- 
lished by Mr. John Murray, who ascribes it to an 
electric change in the air. “ Last summer,’^ he 
says, “ we investigated the phenomenon with great 
care : the weather had been parched and sultry 
for some weeks previous, and the honey-dew pre- 
vailed to such an extent, that the leaves of the cur- 
rant, raspberry, &c., in the gardens, literally distilled 
from their tips a clear limpid honey-dew, excreted 
from the plant ; for the phenomenon was observable 
on those plants that were entirely free from aphides, 
and so copious was it, where these insects were 
found, that had their numbers been centuple they 
could not certainly have been the source of the sup- 
ply. The question with me, however, was set at rest 
by applying a lens, having previously washed and 

* Botan. Arrangement, ii,, 440, 3(1 ed. 

+ Encycl. of Agriculture, p. 86.5, s. 5444. 

:{: Introduction to Botany, p. 189. 

§ See Linn, Trans, vol, vi. and Willdenow, Princ. of Botany, p, 343. 

c 3 




dried the leaf by a sponp^e, for in this case the im- 
mediately excreted globules became apjiareut 

In all observations upon insects, and the other 
minute parts of creation, it is often exceedingly dif- 
ficult to distingiiisli between a cause and an effect. 
The question of the formation of honey-dew appears 
to us particularly liable to erroneous conclusions ; 
and we therefore venture to mention a few circum- 
stances which seem irreconcileable with Mr. Mur- 
ray’s ingenious theory. The hop fly {AphisJufmiili), 
we think, neither does, nor (for want of appropriate or- 
gans) can, feed on the honey-dew ; and if it did, this 
feeding would prove rather beneficial than otherwise to 
the plant, by clearing it from the leaves whose respira- 
tory functions it obstructs. So far from feeding on 
diseased plants, an aphis only selects the youngest 
and most healthy shoots, into the tender juicy parts 
of which it thrusts its beak {havMlvm)^ which in 
some species is much longer than the body, and no 
more fitted for lapping honey-dew than the bill of 
TEsop’s crane was for eating out of a shallow^ plate. 
In the experiment, tried by Mr. Murray, of wiping 
a leaf, might not the leaf have been previously 
wounded, perhaps, by the beak of some aphis, and 
hence the exudation of sap, not honey-dew? and 
may not the circumstance of his finding the lioney- 
dew on leaves where there were no aphides be 
accounted for on the principle that the aphides had 
abandoned, as they always do, the parts covered 
with their ejecta, unless these fell from insects on 
some over-hanging branch ? It is justly remarked 
by M. Sauvages, that they are careiul to eject the 
honey-dew to a distance from where they may be 
feeding t- We have now in our study a plant of 
the Chinese chrysanthemum {Aiithemis Artemisia 

? Treatise on Atmospherical Electricity, p. 14/, Lond. 1830. 
f Trans. Soc. Roy. Ue Montpellier. 





foUUy WiLLD.), the youn^ shoots of which have 
swarmed with aphides all the winter, and the leaves 
below are covered with honey-dew. We tried the 
experiment of wiping it off from a leaf, but no more 
was formed when it was protected by a })iece of 
writing-paper from the aphides above ; while the 
writinc^-paper became sprinkled all over with it in a 
few hours. By means of a lens, also, we have ac- 
tually seen the aphides ejectin«; the honey-dew * 

The almost instantaneous appearance of these 
destructive insects in frreat numbers at the same 
time, is taken notice of with wonder by almost every 
writer. This circumstance, it must be confessed, 
c;ives considerable ])lausibility to the notion of their 
bein^ broup:ht by winds, — for whence, we may be 
asked, could they otherwise come? Simply, \ve 
reply, from the e^<i's deposited the precedinc: autumn, 
which, having all been laid at the same time, and ex- 
posed to the same degrees of temperature, are of 
course all simultaneously hatched. In the case of 
the aphides, also, the fecundity is almost incalculable. 
Reaumur proved by experiment, that one aphis may 
be tlie progenitor of 5, 904,900, (K)0 descendants dur- 
ing its life; and Latreillc says, a female during 
the summer inontlis usually produces about twenty- 
live a day. Reaumur I’urther supposes, that in 
one year there may be twenty generations. We 
ourselves have counted more than a thousand 
aphides on a single leaf of the hop ; and in sea- 
sons when they are abundant — when every hop-leaf 
is peopled with a similar swarm — the number of 
eggs laid in autumn must be, to use the words of 
Good, “ myriads of myriads.” The preservation 
and hatching of these eggs in the ensuing spring 
must, it is obvious, depend on the weather and other 
* J.R. 






accidental circumstances, seldom appreciable by our 
most minute observations 
The history of other insects, erroneously referred to 
blighting winds, is more easily traced, from their 
bein^ of a larger size than the aphides. The cater- 
pillar, for example, of Lozoteenia Rosaiia, mentioned 
before, which rolls the leaf of the rose-tree, is one of 
this kind. It is well known as furnishing the common 
poetical comparison of “ a worm i* the bud.’’ Early 
in autumn the mother insect deposits an irregularly 
oval-patch of yellowish eggs, covered with a cement 



Two groups of eggs of the Rose-leaf roller yZoiona) 

on a pane of glass. 

* J. R. 





of the same colour, sometimes upon the branches of 
the rose-tree, but more frequently, as we have ob- 
served, upon some smooth object contiguous. For 
several successive seasons, we have found more than 
one ^roup of these e^p^s upon the p:lass panes, as 
well as the frame-work, of a window, beneath which 
a rose-tree has been trained. At present (January 
1830) there arc two of these groups on one pane, 
and three on the frame-work ; and as each contains 
about fifty eg'p;s, should they all be hatched, two 
or three hundred caterpillars would at once be let 
loose, and, streaming down simultaneously upon 
the rose-tree beneath, would soon devour the greater 
number of its buds. As this window faces the east, 
the sudden appearance of the insects would make 
it appear not unplausible that they had been swept 
hither by an easterly wind. 

We found, during the same winter, an extraor- 
dinary number of similar gro\ips of the eggs of a 
leaf-roller {hozolmnia Ribcana ?) on the branches of 
the gooseberry and red-currant, in a garden at Lee. 
On some small trees, from two to ten groups of eggs 
were discovered ; and as each group consisted of 
from thirty to fifty, a caterpillar might have been 
hatched for every bud. After the severity of the 
season was over, we had the piece of bark cut otf 
on which these eggs were attached ; and though they 
had been exposed on the bare branches to the intense 
frosts of 18*29-30, they were hatched in a few days 
after being brought into our study. As the currant- 
trees were not then come into leaf’, we had no Ibod 
to supply them with, and th<?y refused the leaves of 
all other plants which w^eotfered to them. Had they 
been permitted to remain on the trees till they were 
hatched, they would probably have not left a single 
leaf undevoured. For this spring, at least, these 
currant bushes will be safe from their attacks, and of 





course will set at defiance the supposed blighting 
winds, which no doubt will, as usual, be accused of 
peopling the adjacent gardens with caterpillars. It 
may be well to remark, that these caterpillars, when 
hatched, are scarcely so thick as a thread of sewing 
silk, and being of a greenish colour, they are not 
readily found on the leaves, the opening buds of 
which they gnaw to the very core 

It does not seem to have ever occurred to those 
who thus speak of insect-bearing winds, that they get 
rid of no difficulty by the suppositioa ; for where, we 
may ask, is the east or any other wind to take up 
the insects or eggs which it is said to drift along ? 
The equally sudden disappearance of insects all at 
once, which is also popularly attributed to winds, 
arises from their having arrived at maturity, and 
fulfilled the designs of Providence, by depositing 
their eggs for the ensuing season, when they all die, 
some in a few hours, though others survive for 
several days, but rarely for weeks. 

The sudden and simultaneous appearance of great 
numbers of frogs, snails, and other land animals, has 
given rise to the extravagant opinion that they have 
fallen in a shower from the clouds ; and some goodly 
theories have been devised to account for the pro- 
bable ascent of frog-spawn, and the eggs of snails, 
into the atmosphere by whirlwinds. The impossi- 
bility of this, in consequence of their specific gravity, 
is of course left out of consideration by the theorists. 
Our distinguished naturalist, Ray, when riding one 
afternoon in Berkshire, was much surprised at seeing 
an immense multitude of frogs crossing his path, and 
on looking into the adjacent fields he found that two 
or three acres of ground were nearly covered with 
them. They were all proceeding in the same direc- 
tion towards some woods and ditches ; and he traced 
* J.R. 





them back to the side of a very large pond, which, hi 
spawning time, he was informed, swarmed with 
countless numbers of fro^s. He naturally concluded, 
therefore, that, instead of having been precipitated 
from the clouds, they had been bred in the pond, from 
which they had been invited a short time before, by a 
refreshing shower, to go in quest of food Their 
great numbers will appear less marvellous, when we 
consider that a single frog spawns, as De Mont- 
beillard informs us, about 1300 eggs t* Were it not, 
indeed, for their numerous enemies, and their not 
being fit to propagate till they are three years old, 
the country would soon be overrun with these 
reptiles. We have more than once seen a similar 
legion of hair-worms {Gordii aqvatici, Linn.) in a 
garden at Lee, in Kent, every plant and spot of 
ground literally swarming with them. Their num- 
bers, however, were easily accounted for, as a stream 
at the bottom of the garden abounds with them, and, 
like frogs, they appear to be amphibious J. 

The errors of theory, as well as the mistakes of 
observers, swayed (unconsciously perhaps) by the 
influence of their theoretical opinions, may all be 
traced, we think, to the propensity of human nature 
to discover resemblances in things, which are after- 
wards magnified into close affinity, or even into 
identity. We are indebted to one of our best living 
entomologists, Mr, W. Mac Leay, for clearly point- 
ing out the broad distinction between analogy and 
affinity^. The supposed floating of the eggs of insects 
in the air thus appears to have originated in drawing 
an analogy from the seeds of plants ; though, from 
the facts we have stated, so far from there being any 

* Ray’s Wisdom of God in the Creation, p. 156. 
f Diet. Classique d’Hist. Nat., vii., p.495. J J. R, 

§ Horse Enlomologicsc, or Essays on Anuulose Animals, 8vo. 
London, 1819.21, 





analogy, there is no difference more marked than 
ill this very point — that the eggs of insects are, in 
most cases, fixed by a glue at the moment of ex- 
clusion, while the seeds of plants are uniformly 
diffusable and free. The fertile seeds of plants, 
it is true, are heavy enough to sink in water, and 
consequently as much unfitted for floating in the 
air as the eggs of insects ; but the contrivances to 
counteract this exemplify some of the most beautiful 
provisions of nature. The diffusion of the seeds of 
thistles, groundsel, dandelion, &c., by means of 
feathery down, attraets the notice of the most incuri- 
ous. Another contrivance of nature for eflecting the 
same purpose is not only curious in itself, but bears 
upon our present subject as illustrating an affinity 
which it may be supposed to have with the oviposit 
ing of certain insects. 

The seeds of the various species of violets are 
contained in a capsule of a single cell, or loculainent, 
consisting, however, of three valves. To the inner 
part of each of these valves a seed is attached, and 
it remains so for some time after the valves, in the 
process of ripening, have separated and stood open. 
The influence of the sun’s lieat causes the sides of 
each valve to shrink and collapse ; and in this state 
the edges press firmly upon the seed ; wliich, it may 
be remarked, is not only extremely smooth, polished, 
and shining, but regularly egg-shaped. Thus, when 
the collapsing edge of the valve slides gradually 
and forcibly down over the sloping part of the seed, 
it is tlirovvn with a jerk to a considerable distance. 
There is another part of the contrivance of nature for 
the same purpose, in the violaceie, worthy of remark. 
Before the seed is ripe, the capsule hangs in a droop- 
ing position, with the persisting calyx spread over it 
like an umbrella, to guard it from the rain and dews, 
which would retard the process of ripening ; but no 





sooner is the ripening completed, than the capsule 
becomes almost upris^ht, with the calyx for a support. 
This position appears to be intended by nature to ‘2:ive 
more effect to the valvular mechanism for scattering 
the seeds, as the capsule thus f^ains a higher ele- 
vation (in some cases more than an inch) from which 
to project them. Some ripe capsules of a fine variety 
of heart’s-ease (Viola tricolor), which I placed in a 
shallow ])asteboard box, in a drawer, were found to 
have projected their seeds to the distance of two feet. 
From the elevation of a capsule, therefore, at the top 
of a tall plant, these seeds might be projected twice 
or thrice that distance 

We may mention, as another very curious illustra- 
tion of the power in plants of discharging their seeds, 
the remarkable instance of a minute fungus (Sphaero- 
holm slellatua, Tode). This plant has the property 
of ejecting its seeds with great force and rapidity, 
and with a loud cracking noise ; and yet it is no 
bigger than a pin’s headf. 

The circumstance alluded to as analogous in in- 
sects to this admirable contrivance, occurs in the 
forcible discharge of the eggs of some species to a 
distance. The ghost moth (Jfcpialtis hintiuli), 
for example, ejects its minute black eggs with so 
much rapidity, that De Geer describes them as run- 
ning from the oviduct; and they are sometimes 
forcibly thrown out like pellets from a pop-gun J. 
‘‘ A friend of mine,” says Kirby, “ who had observed 
with attention the proceedings of a common crane- 
fly (Tijmla), assured me, that several females which 
he caught projected their eggs to the distance of 
more than ten inches §.” Another instance is men- 
* .T. 11. in Mag;, of Nat. Hist., i. 380. 

f For a minute account of this singular plant, see Grcville’s 
Scottish Cryptogamic Flora, No.xxxii. 

J De Geer, Mem. des Insectes, iv., 494, 

$ Kirby and Spence, Intr, iii, GQ, 



tioiied by the Abbe Preaiix, of a four- winged fly, 
called by him, Mouche batiste^ which, when caught, 
jets out its eggs at intervals, as if by the jerk of a 
spring 

The apparent analogy, however, between these in- 



A, Plants of Spheeroholus, natural size. B, magnified view. 

C, sectional view, with the seed just previous to projection. D, 
the seed in the act of projection. K,a plant imnjediately after 
projection j a, the seed } b & line indicating its course. 

? Diet. Classique d’Hist. Nat., Art. Mouches Balistes. The 
words are “ Insecte si quatre ailes, qui lance ses oeufs 2l diverses 
reprises, et comme par ua ressort, iorsqu'on le saiiit” 





sects and the plants which discharge their seeds, 
will disappear, when we consider that the scattering 
of the seeds is, in the plants, a regular and con- 
stant process of nature; whereas the insects only 
jet out their eggs from fear when caught. The 
power of throwing their eggs to a distance, indeed, 
could be of no possible use to insects, because they 
possess the more efficient power of locomotion. 

The facts which we have thus stated with regard 
to the seeds of plants being diffused by the means 
of winged down, or by the more remarkable capacity 
of being projected, differ, as we have shewn, in some 
important circumstances from the nearly similar 
arrangement of Nature in the economy of insects. 
They constitute affinities, but not analogies. On the 
other hand, the more universal law of the conti- 
nuance of insect life by every new generation being 
hatched from eggs, may be illustrated by an analogy, 
which is observed even in the most minute instances, 
in the generation of plants from seeds. 

The diffusion of the seeds of an extensive order 
of plants {Cryptogamicp, Acotyledones, Joss., 

Cellulares, De Candolle) being so universal, and 
the seeds (^sponiles) themselves being so minute as 
to elude common observation, the phenomena thence 
arising have, like the sudden appearance of newly 
hatched insects, given some colour to the doctrine of 
spontaneous generation. We may see this exem- 
plified every day on brick walls recently built, even if 
they be covered with a smooth coat of cement. The 
first indication of vegetable life on such a wall, par- 
ticularly in parts exposed to the trickling down of 
rain water, is that of a green silky-looking substance, 
having somewhat the appearance of a coat of green 
paint, Mr. Drummond, of the Cork Botanic Garden, 
by accurately watching the progress of this green 
matter, which had been unsuccessfully investigated 




by Priestley, Ingenhouz, and Ellis, and had been 
mistaken by Linnai\is for a crop of byssi, ascer- 
tained beyond question that it always consisted of 
the minute buds of common mosses, such as the wall 
screw moss (Tortvla mvralis) and the common 
hair-hood moss (Polytrichum commune) *. At 
Glasgow, we have repeatedly remarked, that on the 
walls of houses, built with freestone raised from a 
quarry more tliaii a hundred feet under the surface 
of the soil, the whole exterior would, in the course 
of one mouth, appear as green as if painted, with 
these innumerable germinating mosses f. 

The germination of mosses on walls appears to 
arise from the seeds {sporulcs) being carried into the 
air. Tliis process is facilitated by their extreme 
minuteness and their comparative lightness, for they 
do not sink in water like the seeds of phenogamous 
plants and the eggs of insects, as appears from their 
germinating on the surface of stagnant water as 
frequently as on walls. In low situations, the mode 
in which the seeds of cryptogamie plants are diffused 
is well exemplified in the puff-ball (Ly coper don) ^ 
which, when ripe, explodes its sporules in the form 
of a smoke-like cloud. Mosses again, which grow 
on trees and walls, if they do not thus explode their 
sporules, must drop them into the air ; and, as they 
chiefly ripen early in spring, the winds which then 
prevail will scatter them to considerable distances. 
But we only state this as a highly probable inference 
from Drummond’s discovery : to detect these all but 
invisible seeds boating in the atmosphere, and trace 
them in their passage from the parent plant to the wall 
or tree where they begin to germinate, we think is 
hardly ])ossible. 

If the doctrine be sound, that every plant arises 
from seed, we must either believe that innumerable 

# Linn. Trans. J. R. 






mosses are wafted to the walls throug^h the air, or 
adopt the hypothesis that they have existed for cen- 
turies in the interior of the rocks of the quarry. That 
it is not impossible the seeds may have existed in the 
rocks several curious facts would lead us to believe. 
Some seeds, for example, retain the power of germi- 
nating^ for an indefinite length of time ; since the 
wheat usually wrapt up with Egyptian mummies will 
often germinate and grow, as well as if it had been 
gathered the preceding harvest. It also bears upon 
this subject, that when a piece of ground, which has 
never been tilled, is turned up by the spade or the 
plough, it immediately becomes covered with a crop of 
annuals, not one of which may grow within many 
miles of the spot; and a number of them, such as 
hedge mustard (Sisymbriitm officinale) and chick- 
weed {Alsine media)^ whose seeds are not winged. 
It is no less worthy of remark that all these annuals 
will again disa])pear as soon as the grass is suffered 
to spread over the spot which has been dug up. It is 
mentioned by Mr. James Jennings, in Time’s Tele- 
scope for 1823, that the coltsfoot (Ttmilago farfar a) 
is usually the first plant which appears in England in 
such cases — a circumstance by no means remarkable, 
as the seeds of this plant are winged with down, and 
extremely light. 

A still more minute family of cryptogarnic plants, 
and consequently more diilicult to trace, is well known 
by the popular name of mould or mouldiness 
cedines, Linn.) This, Adolphe Brongniart justly 
remarks, is, in one of its groups, nearly allied to the 
puff-balls {Lycoperda), whose mode of diffusing their 
seeds we have just described. When mould is 
examined by the microscope it is seen to resemble 
these ; and sometimes various fungi are, when 
mature, filled with a blackish dust, supposed to be 
the seed. Micheli, of Florence, an eminent botanist, 



resolved to try whether this supposed seed would 
grow if sown on vegetable substances, and found 
that it did so. On his experiments bein^ repeated 
at Bologna, however, it was discovered that the mould 
^rew equally well where none of the black powder 
liad been sown ; but Spallanzani, by more accurate 
attention, confirmed the conclusion of Micheli. He 
collected a great quantity of the dust, and, taking a 
number of pieces of moistened bread, apples, pears, 
gourds, &c., sowed some thickly, others sparingly, 
and others not at all. The result was, that on the 
unsown substances the mould did appear, but several 
days later, and then greatly less in quantity, than on 
the sown substances; while of these two, the pieces 
thickly sown had more than double the quantity of 
the pieces thinly sown, though, when it came up 
thick, it did not grow so tall. 



Miproscopu’ views of apple and pear mould. A A, Tart of a 
shrivflled apple, covered with mould on the inside, a a a a, se- 
veral of the individual mould plants hijfhly niajinified. fc, a 
branched one. r d, seed-vessels, one biir.stinfi: and scatlering; I la 
seed, c,'* one nnishrooin- shaped. /, a jiortion of pear mould, 
of a branched form. 

We were much struck last autumn (1829), upon 
cutting an apple asunder, to find in the seed-cells a 




copious growth of the mould with the slender stems 
and globular heads figured by Spallanzani. Mould 
upon an apple is not indeed wonderful ; but the one 
in question was not only large, but apparently sound 
throughout. Whence, then, came the seeds of this 
mould in the very core of the apple ? We have also 
met with mould of a different species, resembling the 
green mould on the rind of oranges (Acrosporium 
fasciadatvm, Greville), even on the kernels of nuts, 
when there was no opening save the minute pores 
in the shell. Through these pores, then, after 
being stripped ofthehusk that covered them, the seed 
of this nut-mould must have entered. This, how- 
ever, will not account for the mould in the apple ; 
the seed of which, we think, must have been intro- 
duced while it was in embryo, in some such way as 
the seeds of the subcortical fungi so abundant on 
dead leaves and branches of trees. This again 
may be illustrated by the curious facts respecting 
substances found in the interior wood of trees. Sir 
John Clark, for example, tells us that the horns of 
a large deer were discovered in the heart of an oak in 
Whirificid Park, Cumberland, fixed in the timber 
with large iron cramps, with which, of course, it 
had at first been fastened on the outside *, The 
eminent naturalist, Adarison, on visiting Cape 
Verd, was struck with the venerable aspect of a tree 
fifty feet ill circumference; and recollecting having 
read in some old voyages that an inscription had 
been made upon such a tree, he was induced to 
search for this by cutting into the wood, and, mar- 
vellous to say, he actually found it under 300 layers 
of woodt I De Candolle, one of the greatest living 
botanists, remarked “ a frost-bitten part in the 
wood of a tree, cut down in 1800, in the forest of 

* Phil. Trans, vol. xli.,p. 448. 

t Adanson, Voyages -i Senegal. 





Fontainebleau. This bein^ covered with 91 layers 
of wood, indicated that the accident occurred in 
1709, so remarkable for a severe frost*/* With these 
facts before us, we think the introduction of the seed 
of the mould into the centre of the apple by no 
means so unaccountable as at first view it appeared. 
Be this as it may, we tried, with the seed gathered 
from this apple-mould, similar experiments to those 
of Spallanzani, with results precisely similar to his; 
and being in this way able at pleasure to produce 
mould of tlie mine species by sowing, we are entitled 
to conclude that all mould arises from seed, other- 
wise nature must produce the same effect from dis- 
similar causes, which is contrary to the first principles 
of sound j)hilosopliy t. 

* Conv. on Veg. Physiol., i. 59. f J. R. 





Physiology of Insects* Eggs. — Their Colour, Structure, Shape, Size, , 
and Number. 


It was a notion of Darwin’s, (much more in- 
g;ciiious and plausible than his metamorphoses of 
shell-fish into birds,) that the variety in the colours 
of C2'^s, as well as the colours of many animals, is 
adapted to the purposes of concealment from their 
natural enemies. Thus, he says, the snake, the wild 
cat, and the leopard, arc so coloured as to resemble 
dark leaves and their lighter interstices ; birds re- 
semble the colour of the brown ground or the 
green hedges which they frequent; while moths 
and butterflies are coloured like the flowers which 
they rob of their honey*. By following up this 
curious theory, Gloger, a German naturalist t, has 
remarked, that those birds whose eggs are of a 
bright or conspicuous colour instinctively conceal 
their nests in the hollows of trees, never quit them 
except during the night, or sit immediately after they 
have laid one or two eggs. On the other hand, in the 
case of birds who build an exposed nest, the colours 
of the eggs are less attractive. Amongst birds whose 
eggs are perfectly white — the most conspicuous of 
all colours, — he instances the kingfisher {Ala do'), 
which builds in a hole in a river’s bank; the 
woodpecker (Pzews), which builds in the hole of 
a tree ; and the swallow {Hirundo domestica), whose 

• Zoonomia, Sect. 39, p. 248, 3d.ed., and Botan. Garden, note 
on Ru*)ia. 

t Verhand, der Gesellsch. Naturforscli, Freundc. Berlin, 
1824. 


 


nest has a very small openinp^: while owls and 
hawks, which scarcely quit their nests in the day, 
and pijreons, which only lay one or two ep^gs and sit 
immediately after, have also white eg^s. The bright- 
blue, or bright-green egg, again, belongs to birds 
which build in holes, as the starling {Sturnus vulgaris)^ 
or which construct their nests of green moss, or place 
them in the midst of grass, but always well covered. 
Almost all singing birds, he alleges, lay eggs of a 
dull or dark ground, and variously speckled; and 
they for the most part build open nests with mate- 
rials similar in colour to the eggs, so that no evi- 
dent contrast is presented which might lead to 
their discovery and destruction. We may add 
from Darwin the examples of the hedge-sparrow 
{Accentor modidaris)^ whose eggs are greenish blue, 
as are those of magpies and crows, which are seen 
from beneath in wicker nests, between the eye and 
the blue of the firmament^. 

As this theory is but indirectly connected with 
our subject, we cannot here spare room to examine 
it ; but we may remark, that it appears to us much 
more beautiful and ingenious than true : for we 
could enumerate more instances in which the prin- 
ciple fails than holds good. Gloger’s instances 
also are far from accurate ; for though the king- 
fisher, for example, hides her shining white eggs in 
a hole, yet that will not conceal them from the 
piercing eyes of their chief enemy, the water rat, which, 
like all burrowing animals, can see with the least 
possible liffht. Many birds, also, which lay bright- 
coloured eggs, make open nests ; the thrush, for ex- 
ample, whose clear-blue eggs, with a few black 
blotches, arc far from being concealed by the plaster- 
ing of clay and cow-dung upon which they are de- 
posited. The green-finch {Fringilla chloris, Tem- 

* See also St. Pierre, Studies of Nature, ii., 393 ; Note, 





minck)) again, which builds an open nest of green 
moss, lined with horsehair, black or white as it can 
be had, lays clear white eggs with red spots, pre- 
cisely like those of the common wren and the willow 
wren (Sylvia Trochilus), which build covered nests 
with a small side-entrance ; while the house-sparrow 
(Fringilla domesiica) lays eggs of a dull, dirty 
green, streaked with dull black, and always builds in 
holes or under cover. These objections will render 
it unnecessary for us to follow Darwin into his 
fanciful account of the origin of the colour of eggs, 
which he ascribes to the colour of the objects amongst 
which the mother bird chiefly lives acting upon the 
shell through the medium of the nerves of the eye ; 
for, if this were correct, we should have the green- 
finch and the red-breast, instead of their white eggs, 
laying blue ones like the hedge-sparrow and the fire- 
tail. 

Upon a partial view of the subject, we might bring 
many facts to support the theory from the colour of 
the eggs of insects. The nettle butterflies, for ex- 
ample, the small tortoise shell (Vanessa TJrticcd)^ 
the peacock (V, lo), and the admirable (V. Atalanta)^ 
all lay eggs of a green colour, precisely similar in 
tint to the plant to which they are attached. On the 
contrary, the eggs of the miller moth (Apatela Le- 
porina, Steph.), which are. deposited on the grey 
bark of the willow, are light purple ; another beautiful 
geometric moth (Geometra illtfnaria), which Sepp^ 
calls Herculesje, lays its light pink eggs in the fissures 
of the bark of the elm ; the puss moth (Cerura vin uld) 
lays shining brown eggs on the green leaf of the pop- 
lar ; and the garden white butterfly (Pontia Brassicee) 
lays a group of yellow ones on a green cabbage or cole- 
wort leaf, but not of so bright a yellow as those of 
the seven-spot ladybird (Coccinella Septempunctatd)^ 
? Sepp, der Wonderen Gods, Tab. 35. 





patches of which may be found on many sorts of 
leaves during the summer months. 

The immediate origin of colour in the eggs of in- 
sects is in some cases the inclosed yolk shining 
through the transparent shell; but in others, the 
shell is not uniformly transparent, but ringed, banded, 
or dotted with o])acities of various colours. In the 
eggs of the drinker moth {Odoimtis poLatorid), for 
example, there are two circular rings of a green 
colour, from the green yolk appearing through the 
shell ; while the rest of the shell is white and opaque, 
as we have proved by dissection^. Certain ruddy 
spots on the white eggs of the small rhinoceros 
beetle (Oryctes nasicornis, Illiger) were discovered 
by Swammerdam to be the red mandibles and spi- 
racles of the unhatched grub seen through the shell ; 
and the white ground, we infer, was similarly caused 
by the body of the grubf. This, however, cannot 
be the origin of the bright red spots on the beautiful 
yellow egg of the brimstone moth (Rimiia era- 
tcBgata^ Duponchel), which may, perhaps, have a 
similar origin to those of birds. 

With respect to the eggs of birds, it has been re- 
marked by Mr. Knapp j, that in those “ of one hue, 
the colouring matter resides in the calcareous part ; 
but where there are markings, these are rather ex- 
traneous to it than mixed wdth it. The elegant blue 
that distinguishes the eggs of the fire-tail {Sylvia 
phccnicuniSj Lath.), and of the hedge-sparrow, 
though corroded away, is not destroyed by muriatic 
acid. The blue calcareous coating of the thrush’s 
egg is consumed ; but the dark spots, like the 
markings on the eggs of the yellow-hammer, house- 
sparrow, magpie, &c., still preserve their stations on 

* J.R. 

f Swammerdam, Book of Nature, i. 13- 
I Journal of a Naturalist, p. 230. 



 


the film, thongch loosened and rendered mucilaginous 
by this rough process. Though this calcareous mat- 
ter is partly taken up during incubation, the mark- 
ings upon these eggs remain little injured even to 
the last;, and are almost as strongly defined as when 
the eggs are first laid. These circumstances seem 
to imply, that the colouring matter on the shells of 
eggs does not contribute to the various hues of the 
plumage; but, it is reasonable to conclude, are de- 
signed to answer some particular object not obvious 
to us: for though the marks are so variable, }et the 
shadings and spottings of one species never wander 
so as to become exactly figured like those of another 
family, but j)rescrve year after }ear a certain charac- 
teristic figuring.” 

Most of these remarks will a]>ply to the colours of 
the eggs of insects : but though we can in most in- 
stances trace no connexion between the colours of 
eggs and the perfect insect, there is a striking ex- 
ception in the egg of the brimstone moth mentioned 
above, which corresponds exactly in colour with the 
wings of the moth, though the caterpillar is of a dull 
brown. 

The eggs of insects, like those of birds, have a 
shell enclosing the germ of the caterpillar with a 
peculiar matter for its nourishment, like the white 
and yolk of a bird’s egg, provided lor the nourish- 
ment of the contained chick. Tliese several parts, 
however, are very dilferent in substance from the 
eggs of birds. The shell of the bird’s egg is brittle, 
opake, chiefly composed of chalk {carboiialc of 
lime), and lined with a very thin tough membrane ; 
while in the egg of an insect the shell is not brittle, 
is transparent, contains no lime (for it is not per- 
ceptibly acted upon by diluted sulphuric acid), and 
no lining membrane can be detected. It aj)pears, 
indeed, very similar to the transparent ])ortion of a 






goose-quill in the eggs of the drinker and other 
moths which we have dissected * ; but in the eggs 
which are deposited in moist places, and in those of 
spiders, it is extremely thin t- The eggs of saw-flies, 
ants, &c., which grow larger, as we shall afterwards 
show, during the process of hatching, must possess 
an expansible shell to allow of their enlargement. 
The yolk and white in the eggs of birds are 
separated from each other by a very fine membran- 
ous bag in which each is contained ; but in the 
eggs of insects, what answers to the yolk consists 
ol' distinct minute globules, which float in the 
white, if we may call it so, for it does not, as we 
have ascertained, coagulate in boiling water. The 
eggs of* the gypsey moth {JTypogyvma dispar), which 
we boiled, still continued partly fluid, though the 
brown matter answering to the yolk was considerably 
thickened. The portion which does not thicken by 
boiling most probably forms the first internal fluids 
of the caterj)illar, answering to the blood of quadru- 
peds. The point where the caterpillar originates, 
— answering to the scar (Cicafricvla) in the eggs of 
birds, — we can readily distinguish even by the naked 
eye in the larger sj)ecies of eggs, as it lies always 
immediately under the shell “ Having directed,’* 
says the younger Huber, “ my close attention to the 
eggs of ants, 1 remarked that they were of different 
sizes, shades, and forms. The smallest were white, 
opa(jue, and cylindrical; the largest, transparent, 
and slightly arched at both ends ; while those of 
a middle size were semi-trans])arent. On holding 
them up to the light 1 observed a sort of white ob- 
long cloud ; in some, a trans[)arent point might be 
remarked at the superior extremity ; in others, a 
clear zone above and underneath the little cloud. The 
largest presented a single opaque and whitish point 
* J. li. f Kirby and Spence, Intr. 8G. 





in their interior. There were some whose whole 
body was so remarkably clear as to allow of ray 
very distinctly observing^ the rings. On fixing atten- 
tion more closely upon the latter, I observed the egg 
open, and the larva appear in its place. Having 
compared these eggs with those just laid, 1 con- 
stantly found the latter of a milky whiteness, com- 
pletely opaque, and smaller by one-half, so that I 
had no reason to doubt of the eggs of ants receiving 
a very considerable increase in size ; that in elong- 
ating they become transparent, but do not at this 
time disclose the form of the grub, which is always 
arched^.” 

The germ in the egg of the garden spider {Epeira 
diadeina) is described by the accurate Heroldt, as 
appearing to the eye in form of a minute white point 
immediately under the shell, and in the centre of the 
circumference. On examining this j>oint more nar- 
rowly, it is found to be of a lenticular shape, and 
composed of innunierable whitish granulations of a 
globular form, difiering only from the globules of the 
yolk in being smaller and more opaque, as may be 
seen by squeezing out the contents ot a spider’s egg 
into a watch-glass. The most singular circumstance 
observed by Heroldt was, that in some species of 
spiders an egg appeared to have a considerable 
number dispersed u])on different ])oints of the surface ; 
but all these ultimately united into a single germ t. 

The eggs of the gl(»w-worm (^Lampyris noctlluca), 
as we ascertained from those dej)Osited by one which 
we found in 1829, at Rudesheim, on the Rhine, are 
golden yellow, somewhat resembling cherry-tree 
gum, while the internal substance is similar in con- 

’i' M. P. Huber on Ants, p. G8. 

f Heroldt, Exercit. dc Generat. Aranearuin in Ovo, and bis 
Unters. iiber die liildung der Wizbelloiscu Tliiere ini Eie. 




sistencc to the wax of the ears, and in form of 
g^ranules which are even externally apparent 

We are accustomed to consider the form of e^p^s 
so nearly rep^ular, that the epithet “ ep^p^-shaped” is 
frequently applied to other things, and is well under- 
stood ; but the eggs of insects, tliough most com- 
monly round, are seldom, like those of birds, 
smaller at one end than at the other, while they often 
exhibit forms never seen in the eggs of birds, — such 
as cylindric, flat, depressed, compressed, prismatic, 
angular, s(juare, boat-shajjed &c. These varieties 
of form are justly referred by Kirby and Sj^ence to 
the “ manifold wisdom” (-TroXvTroiKiXos fTo(J)iu) + of the 
Creator; but we have some hesitation in admit- 
ting their limitation of this to his “ will to vary 
forms, and so to glorify his wisdom and power in- 
dependently of other considerations §,” and think it 
would be more truly philosophic to confess our igno- 
rance where we cannot exjdain what is above our com- 
j)rehension. Paley, indeed, says, such facts “ might in- 
duce us to believe that t^arieiy itself, distinct from every 
other consideration, was a motive in the mind of the 
Creator, or with the agents of his will but he imme- 
diately adds, “ to this great variety in organized life the 
Deity has given, or j)erhaps there arises out of it, a 
corresponding variety of animal appetites, and did 
all animals covet the same element, retreat, or food, 
it is evident how much fewer could be sup])lied and 
accommodated, than w hat at present live conveniently 
together, and find a ])lentiful subsistence ||.” The 
latter remark, we think, completely destroys the 
former, and it will lead us to what appears to be 

* J. R. 

+ Dumcril, Consider G^nerales, p. 49 ; and Insect Aichitccture, 
p. 19. 

X Kplies. iii. 10. J Inlrod,, iii. p. 95. 

II Natural Theology, p. 345, 14tli ed. 





the true cause of ttie varied forms of the e^gs of 
insects. 



The cause of the eggs of birds being nearly the 
same in shape, arises, we should say, from the similar 
forms of the animals themselves ; while insects being 
much more varied in shape, require corresponding 
varieties in the forms of their eggs. The ostrich, 
the eagle, and the wren, for example, ditfer much 
more in size than in their general form ; but the 
earwig, the garden- spider, butterflies, beetles, and 
grasshoppers, dilier much more in form than in size, 
and consequently recpiire eggs of varying forms to 
contain their progeny. We confess, however, that 
we cannot always trace the mathematical causes of 
these diversities of form in the eggs of insects ; for 
though there prevails a general resemblance in those 
families and groups the most nearly allied, yet in 
others, even the sj)ecies of the same genus exhibit 
diflerences which cannot be thus accounted for. In 
two species of Vanesm, for instance, the small and 
the great tortoise-shell butterflies, which differ in 
little but size, the egg of the small is cylindric with 
eight ])rominent ribs, while that of the great is 
shaped liked a Florence flask, and quite smooth and 
uniform 

The ribbing of the eggs of the small tortoise-shell 
? der Wonderen Godb, Tab, ii. and \iii. 

£ 3 





butterfly (Vanessa urticee)^ which is also found on 
those of most of the species, leads us to remark that 
insect ec^^s are frequently sculptured in a very beau- 
tiful manner, far out-rivallinc; in elegance of design 
and delicacy of workmanship the engravings which 
we sometimes see on eggs brought from India and 
China. Some of them, when seen through a microscope, 
remind us of the fine crustaceous shells called sea- 
eggs, — a resemblance which is well exemplified in the 
egg of the angle-shades moth (Phlo^ojihora meti- 
ciUosa^ Stephens), as compared with the Clyjieaster 
of Parkinson. 



a, og;!? of the antjh'-shades inotli (^P/ilot/Dphora metiva- 

losa ) ; b, sea-egg (^Olf/pcasfcr)^ natural size. 


These channellings appear to correspond in most 
cases with the rings of the caterpillar to be hatched 
from the egg ; but the design of the other sculptures 
on these eggs has not yet been discovered by the 
investigations of naturalists, and may, probably, for 
ever elude human penetration. But though we 
cannot tell why an insect’s egg is so tastefully carved, 
we can admire the minute delicacy and extraordinary 
regularity of the markings. The egg of the meadow 
brown butterfly (Hipparchia Jurfina) crowned at 
the upper end with sculptured work in the form of 
tiles or slates, as if to defend it from injury, while 
others arc covered with a sort of net-work of ex- 
tremely minute six-sided meshes. 






fl, the of tlu* in(*H(lo\v hrowii-lnitk'rlly, inaf^iiitied ; />, egg of 
the brim s>loDi‘- moth (liumin (’rataujata), maguiHctl. 


The desifl^ii of the appeiidac^es to some sort of 
is much more apparent, and affords us some 
admirable illustrations of prospective contrivance. 
The ef!:^s of the ephemera', for example, are smooth 
and oblong, resembling carraway comfits, a form 
which Swammerdam proved to be admirably adapted 
for diffusing them through the water, where, he says, 
they are dropt by the mother insect. For this pur- 
pose he placed “ a few of them on the point of a 
knife, and letting them tall gently into water, they 
immediately separated of themselves in a very curious 
manner*.” The same accurate observer describes a 
very remarkable apiiendage in the egg of the water 
scorpion {Nepa cinerca, Linn.), an insect by no 
means rare in Britain. This egg is furnished with 
a coronet of seven bristles disposed like the down 
on the seed of the blessed thistle, (^Cejitanrea 
henedicta, Willdenow) ; and before they are de- 
posited these bristles closely embrace the egg next 
to them in the ovary like a sort of sheath, as if a 
chain of thistle-seeds were formed, by placing each 
successively in the bosom of the down of the one 
next to it. As the mother insect deposits these eggs 
in the stems of aquatic plants, the bristles, which are 
partly left on the outside, are probably intended to 
# Swamm. Book of Nature, i. 104. 





prevent the aperture from bein^ closed up by the 
rapid growth of the plant. 

Reaumur g-ives an interesting* description of a 
similar egg deposited F)y a common dnng-fly, of a 
yellowish-orange colour, (Scafop/ia^ci stercoraria^ 
Meigen). These eggs are furnished at the upper 
end with two divergent ])cgs, whicli prevent them 
from sinking into the dung where they are placed by 
the parent, while they are permitted to enter suffi- 
ciently far to preserve them moist. Both circum- 
stances are indispensable to their hatching; for 
when Reaumur took them out of the dung, they 
shrivelled up in a few hours, and when he immersed 
them farther than the two pegs, they were suffocated, 
and could not afterwards be hatched 



a, Uiing-fly {Scatophajja Stervoraria ) he, front and side 
views of its cp;g;s inajjailied j d d d, a munber of these eg^gs 
deposited in covv-dnng. 


Before we began to study the habits of insects, we 
found upon a lilac-twig, in the neighbourhood of 
London, a singular production, which we look for a 
very delicate fungus, and suj)j)osing it not to be 
common, we carefully preserved the specimens ; but 
we have since learned, with no little surprise, that 
these are the eggs of the lace-winged fly, {Chryfiopa 
reticulata^ Leach). Reaumur says that several 
naturalists have described them as fungi, which is 
not to be wondered at ; for they consist of a small 
oval greenish-white head, similar to the apple-mould. 


* Reaumur, iv. 379. 






with a white transparent stem, more than an 
inch hi^h, not thicker than a human hair, but much 
more stiff and rifrid. About a dozen of these e^^s 
are deposited in a sinorle and sometimes in a double 
line, upon the leaves and branches of elder or other 
trees and plants aboundinp^ with aphides, upon which 
the grubs feed when hatched. The footstalks of 
these eggs are formed by the mother-fly attaching a 
drop of gluten to the branch, and drawing it out 
(as a spider does its line) to the requisite length 
before the egg is deposited on its summit. As she 
uses her body for a measure, the footstalks are by 
consequence all nearly of equal length. It is evi- 
dently the design of these footstalks to place the eggs 
out of the reach of the grubs of lady-birds (Coc- 
cinellm) and of aphidivorous flies (Syrphi)y which 



Twipf of lil.if, boaring tlio etrgs of tho lac<Mvinq:(‘il fly (C/uysopa 
reticulata, LiCACu ). The fly ib ^eeu renting ou tlie lowest leaf. 






frequent the same situations and rnifs^ht devour them. 
The footstalks are so smooth and slender that these 
grubs could not climb them, as we have proved by 
experiment *, 

The ichneumon fly {Ophion luteum), whose larvfE 
feed upon the caterpillar of the puss-moth, also 
deposits eggs with a footstalk ; and what is most 
singular, these larvae, after they are hatched, during 
the first stage of their existence, continue attached 
to the shells of their eggs. It is not till the puss 
has formed her cocoon that they devour her, and spin 
their own cocoons under its covert. 

The eggs of insects do not seem to hold any 
regular proportion, so far as regards size, with their 
parent insects ; for some large moths lay very small 
eggs, while others of a small size lay eggs consi- 
derably larger. Kirby and Spence think it probable 
that eggs which produce, females are generally larger 
than male eggs ; with the exception of the hive-bee, 
in which the reverse takes place. Huber, as we 
have seen above, found the eggs of ants of different 
sizes, from which he was led to discover that they 
increase in size after being deposited. 

It has been remarked, that animals of prey are less 
prolific than those which live on vegetable food ; 
and a similar principle a})pears to hold to a certain 
extent amongst insects, the most prolific families 
belonging, with few exceptions, to those which devour 
vegetable or animal substances beginning to decay 
and putrefy. 

Thus it is that the eagle lays only two eggs, 
while the wren lays eight, and the pheasant twenty- 
four; and in the same way the dragon-flies (Libellu- 
ILna, Mac Leay), do not lay above two dozen eggs, 
the lace-winged flies {Hein/'robidce) still fewer, and 
the noontide fly {McHcnibruia meridiana, Meigen) 

* J, K. f See Insect Architecture; pp. 1115—325; 6. 






only deposits two eg’g’s ; while a single plant-louse 
{Aphis), as we mentioned before from Rt^aumur, 
may be the living progenitor of 5,904,900,000 de- 
scendants, and the queen of the warrior white ants 
{Terrnes hellicosus, Smeathm.), produces 31,536,000 
eggs in one year. 

We may illustrate this subject by an extract exem- 
plifying the proportionate fecundity of the animal king- 
dom in general. “ Compared with the rest of ani- 
mated nature,” says Dalyell, “ infusion animalcula 
are surely the most numerous : next are worms, in- 
sects, or fislies ; amphibia and serpents, birds, quad- 
rupeds ; and last is man. The human female produces 
only one at a time, that after a considerable interval 
from birth, and but few during her whole existence. 
Many quadrupeds are subject to similar laws ; some 
are more fertile, and their fecundity is little, if at all, 
inferior to that of certain birds, for they will produce 
ten or twenty at once. Several birds will breed fre- 
quently in a year, and have more than a single egg 
at a time. How prodigious is the ditiereiice, on de- 
scending to fishes, am])hibia, reptiles, insects, and 
worms! Yet among them the numbers cannot be 
more different. According to naturalists, a scorpion 
will produce sixty-five young ; a common fly will lay 
144 eggs ; a leech, 150; and a spider, 170. I have 
seen a hydrachna j)roduce 600 eggs, and a female 
moth 1100. A tortoise, it is said, will lay 1000 eggs, 
and a frog 1100. A gall insect lias laid 5000 eggs ; a 
shrimp, 6000 ; and 10,000 have been found in the 
ovary, or what is supposed to be that part, of an 
ascarides. One naturalist found above 12,000 eggs 
in a lobster, and another above 21,000. An insect 
very similar to an ant {Mvtilla?) has produced 
80,000 in a single day ; and Leeuwenhoeck seems 
to compute four millions in a crab. Many fishes, 
and those which in some countries seldom occur, 





produce incredible numbers of ep^g;s. Above 36,000 
have been counted in a herrinsf ; 38,000 in a smelt ; 
1,000,000 in a sole ; 1,130,000 in a roach ; 3,000,000 
in a species of sturgeon ; 342,000 in a carp ; 
383,000 in a tench ; 546,000 in a mackerel ; 992,000 
in a perch ; and 1,357,000 in a flounder. But of all 
fishes hitherto discovered, the cod seems the most 
fertile. One naturalist computes that it produces 
more than 3,686,000 e^^s; another 9,000,000 ; and 
a third 9,444,000. Here, then, are eleven fishes, 
which probably, in the course of one season, will 
produce above thirteen millions of eg^s ; which is a 
number so astonishinc^ and immense, that, without 
demonstration, we could never believe it true^'.’' 

The fecundity of insects is no less remarkable than 
that of Ashes. In some instances, particularly in 
those already mentioned, the numbers ])roduced from 
the eg'gs of a siuirle female, far exceed the progeny 
of any other class of animals. It is this extraor- 
dinary fecundity which, under favourable circum- 
stances, produces countless swarms of insects that 
give origin to the opinion of their being sponta- 
neously generated by imtrcfactiou, or brought in 
some mysterious way by blighting winds. The 
numerous accidents, however, to which insects are 
exposed from the deposition of the eg'g till their Anal 
transformation, tend to keep their numbers from 
becoming excessive, or to reduce them when they 
are at any time more than commonly numerous. 

Introd. Observ. to Spallanzani, xiv. 





Matornnl Carn of Inserts in deposltinp their Efi-jrg. — Solitary Bees. — 
'W.isps. — Ichneumons. — Moths. — Butterflies. — Gnats. — Mistakes of In- 
stinct. 


Lord Katmes, in his ‘Gentleman Farmer/ men 
tions tlie singular fact that tlie female sheep, weeks 
before yeaning', selects some sheltered spot where 
she may drop her lamb with the most comfort and 
security ; and when forcibly prevented from gr<-)inp^ 
there, she manifests the utmost uneasiness. But 
this instance of prospectively ])roviding for a future 
progeny is exemplified much more strikingly in most 
insects, in conse(|uence of the great difference of 
their economy compared with that of other animals. 
The .shee[) and other mammalian (piadrupeds suckle 
their young, and watch over them with the most 
affectionate care during the earlier and more help- 
less stage of their existence. This, on the contrary, 
is oidy found in a few cases among insects, such as 
the social bees, wasjis, and ants ; for the greater 
number of species never live to see their descend- 
ants. The numerous families, indeed, of moths, 
butterflies, and other winged iiusects, seldom live 
more than a few days after they have deposited 
their eggs, though some other species probably live 
many months. The latter, however, are only ex- 
ceptions to the general rule, that insects, after depo- 
siting their eggs, very soon die. The wisdom of 
Providence, therefore, has endowed female insects 
with the most wonderful acuteness and skill in anti- 
cipating the wants of their young, when they escape 






from the egg, and have no mother to direct or pro- 
vide for them. 

We have numerous beautiful instances of this in 
the solitary bees and wasps, which perform indefa- 
tigable labours in hewing out nests in wood and 
stone, and building structures of clay, leaves, cotton, 
and other materials, as we have elsewhere detailed 
at length^. But we recently met with an exam])le of 
this, which we shall briefly notice. A small solitary 
bee, {Chtiodoiricf for isoinne not so large as the 
domestic fly, and more slender in the body, instead 
of digging into the ground like its congeners f, 
bores a hole in a tree about the diameter of a wheat 
straw, and, when empty, resembling externally the 
timber holes of the furniture beetle (^Anobii/m per- 
iinax)^ for which, indeed, we at first mistook them, 
till we were undeceived by seeing the little bees going 
in and out. When the work is completed, however, 
the hole can only be detected by a practised eye, for 
it is neatly covered with a substance, the nature of 
which remains to be discovered. ] t is a grey semi- 
transparent membrane, somewhat resembling the 
slime of a snail when dried ; but whether it is secreted 
by the bee like wax, or gathered from plants like 
propolis, we cannot tell. As we had a whole colony 
of tliese little wood-boring bees in the stumj) of a 
growing poplar at JLee, we cut out several of the 
perforations, in order to examine the interior. These 
we found more than an inch deej), and filled to the 
brim with a thin whitish honey ; but, like those of 
the larger car])enter bees of a different genus {Xylo- 
copa), they were divided by several partitions of the 
same membranous material. 

The circumstance, however, which induces us to 
give these details here, relates to the eggs deposited 


? See Insect Architecture, pp. 24 — G4, &c. f Ibid.p. 43. 





in these sins^ular perforations. It is obvious, 
if the epr^s were laid in the midst of the liquid 
honey, that they would either be prevented from 
hatching, or the c^rub would be suflbcated in the first 
stag;e of its existence. Every chamber of the 
little nest is so full of honey, that it is difficult to 
divine how this is to be avoided, and it was only 
after repeated and anxious researches that we found 
a solution of the ditliculty. It is this : the mother- 
bee, when she has filled a chamber with honey, ^lues 
a single e^£^, a hair’s breadth or two above its sur- 
face, and at a similar minute distance she stretches 
the membranous partition, leavinsc between this and 
the surface of the honey just sufficient space, and no 
more, for the newly hatched 2j“rnb to crawl all round. 
On openinp; one of these perforations after the grub 
had been some time hatched, we found it keeping 
aloof from the lioney, and resting on the upper 
margin, from which it seemed to have stretched its 
head when feedingto the centre, instead of eating at 
the circumference. The honey was also then be- 
come thicker in consistence, and, in consequence of 
what had been consumed, formed a hollow cup^. 

Reaumur describes the nest of a bee of the 
same family (Andrrna cineraria, Fabr.), which is 
found in the neighbourhood of London, and differs 
from the preceding in making’ ])erf(>rations, not in 
trees, but in the ground, and lining these witli the 
membranaceous substance that comj)oscs the parti- 
tions and the outer covering. He takes no notice, 
however, of the prospective ingenuity with which 
the egg is ])laced above the surface of the fluid 
honeyt. 

The various species of nests thus prepared by the 
parent insects for depositing their eggs, arc not 
inerely intended for holding provisions and shel- 
J. ii. Reaumur, JVlcMii., vol. \i. p. 131, 

F 2 






tering^ the youngs g^ruh from the inclemencies of the 
weather, or from beings preyed upon by birds. There 
are more insidious and no less destructive enemies 
than these to guard against. This we shall imme- 
diately show from the economy of other families of 
tile same order, whose proceedings also strictly 
illustrate the subject of maternal care. In popular 
works on natural history the insects alluded to are 
indiscriminately called Ichneumojia, a name signifying 
Pryers^ and first given by Aristotle to wasps. But 
recently this term has been considerably restricted, 
and therefore does not jiroperly apply to many 
insects whose economy resembles the true ichneu- 
mons. It is the practice, then, of a very great num- 
ber of insects, of dilferent orders and families, to take 
advantage of the labours of other insects in pro- 
viding for their progeny, in the same way as the 
common cuckoo and the cow-bunting of America 
(Ember iza pecoris, Wilson) lay their eggs in the 
nests of other birds. The venerable Dr. Jeuner was 
the first to publish^, what had long been known to 
our peasants, that the young cuckoo, when hatched, 
soon ejects from the nest into which it has been 
surreptitiously introduced the eggs or young of its 
foster parent ; but the insects under notice act still 
more ungratefully. They do not, indeed, live upon 
the honey or other ]>rovisiou stored up by the 
builder of the nest for the use of her own young, 
since, being all carnivorous, this is not to their taste; 
but they permit tlie rightful owner of the food to 
feast and fatten on it, that they may make of him a 
more substantial repast. The great numbers of dif- 
ferent species of insects which are reared in this sin- 
gular manner would appear almost incredible to one 
who had not studied their economy ; but it cannot 
fail to meet the young entomologist at the very 
? Phil. Trans, for 17c>8, p.219. 






outset of his studies ; for it is scarcely possible for many 
broods of insects to be reared without observing;* it. 

The insidious proceeding's of these cuckoo in- 
sects, as we may not inappropriately call them, give 
rise to remarkable displays of ingenuity on the part 
of the mothers whose progeny is exposed to their 
felonious designs. It is the usual practice of the 
solitary bees and wasps to leave the whole task of 
constructing and provisioning tlie nest to the fe- 
male, the male, like an American Indian, taking 
no ])art in those domestic concerns. In this case, 
though she is seldom absent from the spot for 
more than two or three minutes at a time, some 
prying Chrysis or Taohina often glides into her 
domicile, and finds time to deposit its egg and 
to escape before her return. Other solitary bees ex- 
hibit both more civilization and more cunning ; for 
the male assists, at least, in watching and guarding 
the nest, if he does not lend a hand in its construc- 
tion. The ])roceedings of one of these solitary bees 
{Hallctus fiilvocinctiifi, Stepti.), indigenous in the 
vicinity of London, has frequently fallen under our 
observation. It constructs a gallery, having on the 
outside only a single perpendicular passage, but 
branching out into seven or eight, at the bottom of 
each of which is placed a globule of pollen kneaded 
up with honey about the size of a pea, where an egg 
is deposited. Walckenacr, who observed these in- 
sects with great care, remarks, that they only work 
during the night in making their galleries ; and 
our observations so far agree with his, that though we 
have observed some dozens of their nests, we never 
saw them at work in the day. Instead of this, 
either the male or the female always remains at the 
entrance of the nest (which its head exactly fills) 
ready to give no friendly reception to any enemy 
that may venture to intrude. We have often seen, 




indeed, the ruby-tail fly (Chrysis on ap- 

proachinp; this vigilant sentinel, fly off in all haste, 
with evident fear of the consequences. But, as 
Waickenaer justly remarks, should the partner of 
its cares return from a foraging excursion, and take 
two or three circular flights around the entrance to 
announce its arrival, the sentinel bee immediately 
makes way by withdrawing into the interior. Should 
the sentinel bee be absent through any cause from 
its post, and the forager enter without announcing 
its arrival, it is immediately driven back and pu- 
nished for so unpardonable a breach of etiquette^. 

Another circumstance worthy of notice in the 
manners of these bees (Halicti) is, that they fly 
directly into the entrance of their nests without ever 
alighting upon any contiguous object, a circum- 
stance which is attributed by Waickenaer to their 
fear of enemies, numbers of which are always lurk- 
ing about with evil intent. More than one species 
of spider and several sorts of wasps lie in wait to 
make prey of them, besides those we have men- 
tioned as being on the alert to introduce their eggs 
into their nest. But their most formidable enemy is 
a solitary wasp {Crrceris ornata}, numbers of 
which make their nests in the very midst of their 
colonies. The wasps surround the interior margin 
of their holes with a rampart of sand, agglutinated 
with a whitish mortar, and well polished. The gal- 
lery is five inches deep, somewhat in the form of an S, 
in which the female lays her eggs, with a store of 
provisions for her future young, consisting of the 
living bodies of her bee neighbours, the \)00y Halicti, 
It is only on fine days, between eleven and four 
o’clock, that the mother wasp engages in the chase 
of the bees, and may be seen flying with the most 
lively ardour around their nests. When an unfortii- 
? Wulck. Mem. dcs Abeilles SoUt. Paris, 1817. 





natc bee ventures at this time to approach its home, 
the wasp pounces upon it as a hawk would pounce 
upon a sparrow, seizes it by the back of the neck, 
carries it to tlic ground, and placing it by the side of 
a small stone or clod of earth, she turns it round upon 
its back. Then standing upon its belly in an attitude 
of conscious triumph, she darts her sting into the 
lower })art of its head, in such a manner as to stupify 
it, but not to kill it outright. As soon as she has in 
this manner laid in a sufficient store of half-dead 
bees, she closes up the entrance 

Several species of this family of wasps (Cerceris 
avrila, Latr., and C. ijitadrifasriata^ Bose) are 
of essential service to agriculturists by provisioning 
their nests w itli destructive weevils {Ourcvlioiiidai^ 
so injurious to orchards and nurseries t* Other 
families of this order in a similar way provide for 
their ])rogeny a supply of living insects of different 
species, of which interesting accounts have been 
given by more than one naturalist J. 

The insects, liowever, of these marauding tribes 
are not permitted to carry on their depredations on 
their more peaceful neighbours with impunity ; for 
nature has j)ro\ided other races of animals to make 
prey of them. We do not allude merely to birds 
and reptiles, which devour as many of those carni- 
vorous wasps as they can catcli ; for there is also a 
numerous tribe of insects who have the address to 
foil them at their own weapons. All the careful 
stratagems of the mason wasp {Odynenismvrarhis, 
Latr.), in rearing her turretted outworks to defend 
her premises while she excavates her galleries §, 
often prove ineffectual in guarding against the insi- 

* Walck, ; Lutrcillc, Annales du Museum, tom. xiv. i and 
Pose, Ann. dc 1’ Aerie., vol. liii. 

f Bose, Ann. de I’Agric., vol. liii. 

X See Insect Arcliiteclure, pp. 2G — 33. § Ibid., pp, 30 — 32, 


 

dions intrusion of a common ichneumon fly (Pimpla 
manift stator i Gravenhorst), easily known by its be- 
inc^ black, with the lea^s red. This ichneumon some- 
times pays a visit to the nest of the wasp before it is 
completed, for Reaumur has seen one peep into the 
entrance and then start back as if afraid of its 
depth ; but, for the most part, she waits patiently till 
the wasp, haviiuj^ laid in a store of caterpillars for 
the youno* one, closes up the doorway with a bar- 
ricado of kneaded clay. It is this very barricado 
which the ichneumon determines to assail in order to 
find a nest ready prepared and stocked with provi- 
sions for her own progeny. With lliis design she 
makes use of her ovipositor, which is as admirably 
adapted to the purpose as those of the saw-flies or 
the tree-hoppers (Cicada!'), 

The ovipositor of all the true ichneumons (lok- 
jieumoTiidai) is similarly constructed, consisting of a 
borer enclosed in a sheath, which opens through its 
whole length like the legs of a pair of compasses. It 
is longer or shorter, and stronger or more slender, 
according to the substances which it may be neces- 
sary to penetrate when the eggs are deposited. The 
description, therefore, of the ovipositor of the one 
just alluded to (P. manifcstator) will be sufficient to 
give the reader a distinct notion of the otliers. 
Being intended to penetrate into the deep holes dug 
by mason wasps, the ovipositor of this insect is 
nearly three inches long, and, as it is not concealed 
in the body like those of gall flies, it a])pears like a 
tail formed of a long black bristle. On examining 
this a little more narrowly, we find that what 
appears to be a single bristle is in reality three, two 
side ones forming a sheath, and tlie middle one a 
borer or brad-awl for piercing the clay barricado of 
the mason wasp’s nest. The termination of the 
borer is not, liowever, smooth, like that of a brad- 






awl, but toothed like a saw, only the teeth, seven or 
eic!;ht, are not oblique, but perpendicular, a structure 
better fitted for acting upon clay, as the teeth will 
not become so readily elop^ged, and the instrument 
will be more easily retracted. The figures will make 
tiiis more perspicuous than the best description. 



wasps {Odyneri) more elFectiially, Reaumur made 
an artificial ves])iary of sand and mortar upon a 
wall, which at the same time *2:avc him an excellent 
opportunity of observing: the manceiivres of the ich- 
neumons. “ I perceived,’’ he tells us, “ one of these 
ichneumons, at the instant it aliglited on the spot 
under which so many of the little green caterpillars 
had been stored up by the wasps. Its long tail, 
which it carried horizontally, a]:)peared to form but 
one bristle, though it was really coin])osed of three ; 
and though it carried it on a line with its body, it 
soon showed me that it was capable both of raising 
and lowering it, as well as of bending it in various 
directions, and in dittcrent proportions to its length. 
It moved its ovipositor so as to bring it into a bent 
position under its body, ])rotiMiding it even beyond 
its own head ; taking care to direct it into the barri- 





cadoed nest of the mason wasp. But although the 
insect appeared not to be disturbed by my observa- 
tions, yet I was unable to perceive whetiier the 
toothed portion of the borer was pushed beyond the 
sides of the sheath. What I did see, however, con- 
vinced me that the instrument was worked in a 
manner well adapted to make its way through the 
mortar; ior she turned it half round alternately 
from right to left and from left to right, as a car- 
penter would his brad-awl, and employed altogether 
more than a quarter of an hour bef ore she succeeded 
in penetrating to a sufficient depth 


icnncuinoii nies oviposiimj?. rt ^r, an K-hnounioti fl b h, \ts 
oviptKsitoi. r, an irhiuMiinon, wliirh has just Ijured through’ the 
dosed substance ot a sand wasp’s nest at e. into wliidi her ovi- 
positor, (i, descends to the coil of caterpillars at /, where the 
eiju IS laid. 

* KC‘aumur,Meni, vi. p. 304. 







Another parasite (Pimpla strobilella, Fabr.) is 
armed with a long ovipositor, with which it deposits 
its eggs in larvm tliat burrow in the fruit-cones of 
the tir. 

The intrusion of these parasite eggs into the nests 
of insects is olten an exceedingly puzzling circum- 
stance to naturalists, in their earlier researches ; and 
sometimes even deceives those ol‘ considerable expe- 
rience and acuteness into the supposition that the 
insects ultimately produced are in reality those of 
the original builder of the nest. These deceptions 
frequently occur in the numerous species of vege- 
table galls, originating chiefly in the economy of a 
beautillil famil\ of insects (Clicdcididfe, Westwood). 
When the gall-fl y {Cynips) has deposited its eggs on 
the bud or the leaf of a plant in such a manner as to 
insure their being surrounded with a thick coating of 
vegetable substance, they are not on that account se- 
cure from the insects just alluded to ; for the Chalcis^ 
armed by nature with an instrument for the purpose, 
can penetrate in any direction the largest oak-apple 
or bedeguar of the rose^. The most obvious dis- 
tinction between these parasites and the true gall-flies, 
is, that in the latter the ovipositor is partly concealed, 
while in the former it is altogether external, like the 
ichneumons in the preceding figure; but this dis- 
tinction is of course wanting in tlie male insects. It 
was the observation of difl'erent species of insects, 
produced in this manner from the same sort of gall, 
which betrayed the illustrious Redi into the fanciful 
notion of their being generated by a vegetative and 
sensitive soul in the plant itself, to which also he 
attributed the generation of the grubs found in nuts, 
cherries, and other fruits. “There is nothing,’’ as 
Reaumur justly remarks, “ more fitted to humi- 
liate the best rcasoners, and to inspire them with a 
* bee Insect Architecture, pp. 375 — 384. 






well-founded distrust of novel opinions, than to see 
a man like Redi, who had declared open war 
a«^ainst popular prejudices, and successfully com- 
bated many of them, thus adopting a notion 
so improbable, or (to use a stronger term) so 
pitiable^.” It was Redi’s countryman, Malpighi, 
who first discovered the genuine history of gall-flies; 
but when we consider that from the bedeguar gall of 
the rose alone no less than three different species of 
insects may ])roceed, two of which {Call imone he- 
de^iiarisy txnd Enrytoma stigma, Stephens) are para- 
sites, Redi had some cause for being ])uzzled to 
explain the ])henomena. 

Two other distinguished naturalists, Goedart and 
Ray, found no less difflciilfy in accounting for the 
progeny of ichneumons issuing from the caterpillars 
and chrysalides of butterflies. Riiy, indeed, Jived to 
ascertain the fact ; but he was at one time inclined to 
believe, with Goedart, that when, from iifjy defect 
or weakness. Nature could not bring a caterpillar to 
a butterfly, in order tliat her aim might not be en- 
tirely defeated, she stopped short, and formed them 
into insects of a smaller size, and less perfect struc- 
ture t- M. Goedart oven persuaded liimself, says 
Reaumur sarcastically, that tie had observed the ca- 
terpillar interesting itself for its infant progeny, by 
weaving for them an cnvelo])c of silk, it was also 
fancied that what was wanting in size in the para- 
site flies, when compared with theex])ected butterfly, 
was made up in their greater numbers w ith as 
much probability, says Reaumur, as that a cat would 
kitten a number of mice. The simjile facts which we 
shall now state, will point out the origin of these 
strange mistakes. 

^ Reaumur, Mem. iii., p.47G. 
f Ray, Hist. Ills., Pref. XV., and Cant. 137. 

I Goedart, quoted by Reaumur, vol. ii., p. 415. 





It must have occurred to the least attentive ob- 
servers of the very common cabbage caterpillar 
(Poiitia Brassicep^, that when it ceases to feed, and 
leaves its native cabbage to creep up walls and 
palings, it is often transformed into a group of little 
balls of silk, of a fine texture and a beautiful canary 
yellow colour ; from each of which there issues, in 
process of time, a small four-winged fly (Micro- 
gaster glomeratva^ Spinola), of a black colour, ex- 
cept the legs, which are yellow. By breeding these 
flies in a state of confinement, and introducing them 
to some cabbage caterpillars, their proceedings in de- 
positing their eggs may be observed. We have more 
than once seen one of these little flies select a cater- 
pillar, and ])erch upon its back, holding her ovipositor 
ready brandished to plunge between the rings which 
she seems to prefer. When she has thus begun 
laying her eggs, she does not readily take alarm ; 
but, as Reaumur justly remarks, will permit an ob- 
server to approach her with a magnifying glass of a 
very short focus. Having de]>osited one egg, she 
withdraws her ovipositor, and again jdunges it with 
another egg into a ditferent part of the body of the 
caterpillar, till she has laid in all about thirty eggs. 
It is not a little remarkable, that the poor caterpillar, 
whose body is thus pierced with so many wounds, 
seems to bear it very patiently, and does not turn 
upon the fly, as he would be certain to do upon 
another caterpillar should it venture to ])inch him ; 
a circumstance by no means unusual. Sometimes, 
indeed, he gives a slight Jerk, but tlie fly does not 
appear to be at all incommoded by the intimation 
that her presence is disagreeable. 

The eggs, it may be remarked, are thrust suffi- 
ciently deep to prevent their being thrown off’ when 
the caterpillar casts its skin ; and, being in due time 
hatched, the grubs feed in concert on the living 
body of the caterpillar. The most wonderful circum- 



 

stance, indeed, of the whole phenomenon, is the in- 
stinct with which the grubs are evidently guided to 
avoid devouring any vital part, so that they may 
not kill the caterpillar, as in that case it would be 
useless to them for food. When full grown, they 
even eat their way through the skin of the cater- 
pillar without killing it ; though it generally dies in 
a few days without moving far from the place where 
the grubs have spun their group of silken cocoons 
in which to pass the winter. 






Generation of Ichni-uinons. a a, the caterpillar of Fontia Bras- 
siccr. b, the epfjs of that butterfly to a leaf, c, Minogaster 

glomeriifus, maffnilied. d d d, a inaf^nified view of a dissected 
caterpillar, in whose body a number of ichneumon caterpillars 
have been hatched. silk cocoons t.pun by the ichneumons. 
f, grubs spuming cocoons, grubs eating tneir way out of the 
caterpillar. 





But it is not only in the nests of bees and wasps, 
or in the bodies of caterpillars, that these provident 
mothers contrive to deposit their e 2 ^g;s; for many of 
them are so very minute, as to find in the eg^s them- 
selves of larger insects a sufficient magazine of food 
for their progeny ; and accordingly, piercing the shell 
with their ovipositor, they thrust their own into the 
perforation. The most common instance of this 
which we have remarked, occurs in the eggs of 
spiders ; patches of which may be found almost 
everywhere under the cross bars of palings, and the 
copings and corners of walls. Though spiders, for the 
most part, not only cover their eggs with a thick 
envelope of silk, but also remain near to protect them 
from enemies, yet a small four-winged fly (^Cryptus, 
Fabr.), and, if we are not mistaken, two-winged flies 
(Muscid(B, Leach), also, outbrave the danger of being 
caught and immolated by the mother spider, and 
introduce their eggs either into or among those of 
their powerful enemy. These sj)ider’s eggs are 
subsequently feasted uj)on by the progeny of the 
flies, — a very natural reprisal for the ravages com- 
mitted by this carnivorous race upon the whole gene- 
ration of their fellows. That the mother flies actually 
pierce the eggs of other insects was observed before 
the year 1730, by the accurate Vallisnieri, who says, 
“ I have seen with my own eyes a certain kind of 
wild flies deposit their eggs upon other eggs, and 
bore and pierce others with an ovipositor {aculeus), 
by means of which they have introduced the egg 
Count Zinanni, another Italian naturalist, told Rthiu- 
mur, that, his attention being attracted by a small 
ichneumon fluttering about the eggs of butterflies, 
he soon observed it alight and fix upon one of these 
eggs ; and, without being incommoded by his ob- 
serving her proceedings through a strong magnifier, 
* Vallisnieri, Lettere, 80. 


 


she bent her ovipositor, and plunG;ed it into the 
She performed the same operation upon many 
other e^g;s, which he carefully put under cover ; and 
in about three weeks had from them a brood of flies 
of the same species with the one whose remarkable 
proceedinfl:s he had watched*. 

A writer in the Magazine of Natural History 
(Jan. 1S30), gives an account of a numerous brood 
of a very minute species of ichneumon, supposed to be 
an egg parasite (Platygastcr ovvlorvm ? Stephens), 
which was produced from the caterpillars of the large 
white cabbage butterfly (Po/ii.ia Brassicce). Hav- 
ing enclosed a number of these in a wire cage, five 
or six of them soon left off feeding, and crawled 
about the cage. “ June 30,’’ he proceeds, “ I found 
them resting on large clusters of minute cocoons of 
an ovate form, the largest not exceeding two lines in 
length, and about the thickness of a caraway- 
seed. Each was enveloped with a fine yellow 
silk, resembling that of the common silkworm 
{Bomhyx Mori). On these clusters the caterpillars 
remained the whole day without moving. Fresh 
leaves were given to the rest ; but in the course of 
the day they all left off feeding, crawled about the 
cage, but underwent no other change. Early next 
day, I found they had, with the exception of two or 
three, all ejected the parasitical progeny they had 
been impregnated with; and, like the preceding 
caterpillars, continued resting on the clusters they 
had formed: the remaining three followed the ex- 
ample of the others ; and the last operation of these 
devoted caterpillars v.as to envelope each cluster in 
a veil formed of the most delicate webf.” It is 
not a little interesting to remark, that this circum- 
stance corroborates the statement before given from 

vol. vi. p. 297. 

f Loudon's Mag. Nat. Hi&t. iii.51. 





Goedart, and disbelieved by Reaumur and subse- 
quent naturalists : but we think it so very extra- 
ordinary, that we are much inclined to think the 
observer (T. H. of Clapham) has uiiwittinirly fallen 
into mistake. “ Some of them,’’ he continues, “ ex- 
ecuted the task; but the greater part were too feeble 
to complete it; and in the course of three days 
more they became motionless, and gradually, one 
after another, fell shrivelled and exhausted to the 
bottom of the cage.” Some of the clusters contained 
upwards of a hundred cocoons, and others not more 
than sixty. By July 12, the perfect flies made 
their appearance by opening a rsort of lid at the end 
of each cocoon. The flies seem to differ little, 
except in size, from the common ichneumon of the 
same caterpillar {MicrogasUr glomeratus) ; but, sup- 
posing them to be in the first instance egg parasites, 
they must have been deposited among, not in the 
eggs of the butterfly. 

The minuteness of some of these parasite insects 
may be partly conceived from the fact mentioned by 
Bonnet, — that the egg of a butterfly, not bigger than 
a pin’s head, is sufficient to nourish several of them ; 
for out of twenty such eggs of butterflies, a pro- 
digious number (une qvantiia prodigiaise) were 
evolved *. Few species of the plant-lice (Aphides) 
are a great deal larger than the butterfly’s eggs de- 
scribed by Bonnet ; yet these also have a parasitical 
enemy (Microgaster Aphidvm, Spinola), which 
plunges its eggs in their bodies ; but the larva?, 
when hatched, are by no means safe, being liable 
to the attacks of another fly of the same family 
(Gelis agilis, Thunberg), as Dr. Turton informs 
ust. 

? Bonnet, CEuvres, 8vo. ii. 344. Kirhy, referring to this pas- 
sage, assigns, by mistake, only two to each egg. introd. i. 342. 

f Transl. of Linn, iii. 48, 




It is not common, however, for the ichneumon 
flies to deposit their e^g^s in the bodies of perfect 
insects, as in most cases they prefer the ep^f^s, larvae, 
or pupae; but instances are on record of their g^rubs 
haviiif^ t)een found in the former. The troublesome 
cock-roach (Blatta) is selected by a parasite fly 
(Evania apendi^adcr, Fabr.), as remarkable in 
form as it is rare in occurrence, in Britain at least. 
It has been found in the vicinity of London ; but, 
were it abundant, it mifrht tend to reduce the num- 
bers of these black beetles, as they are incorrectly 
termed, the pests of the kitchen. 



Magnified view of a parasite fly (Evania npendlga&tar)* 

An insect parasite, still more singular in form, 
and of still rarer occurrence, was discovered by 
Kirby, above thirty years a^o, on the black bronze 
bee {A?idrcna nigroamea, Stephens). “ I had pre- 
viously,” he remarks, “ more tlian once observed 
upon other species somethin p; that I took to be a kind 
of Acarus^ which a])peared to be imrnoveably fixed 
just at the inosculations of the dorsal segments of the 
abdomen. At length, finding three or four upon a 
specimen of this bee, I determined not to lose the 
opj)ortunity of taking one off to examine and de- 
scribe ; but what was my astonishment, when, upon 
my attempting to disengage it with a pin, I drew 
forth from the body of the bee a white fleshy larva, 





a quarter of an inch in leng^th, tlie head of which I 
had mistaken for an acarus ! {hec-lousc) . After I 
had examined one specimen, I attempted to extract 
a second ; and the reader may imagine how greatly 
my astonishment was increased, when, after I had 
drawn it out hut a little way, I saw its skin burst, 
and a head as black as ink, with large staring eyes 
and antennae, consisting of two branches, break forth, 
and move itself briskly from side to side. It looked 
like a little imp of darkness just emerged from the 
infernal regions. My eagerness to set free from its 
confinement this cxtraordinaiy animal may be easily 
conjectured. Indeed I was impatient to become 
better acquainted with so singular a creature. When 
it was completely disengaged, and I had secured it 
from making its escai)c, 1 set myself to examine it as 
accurately as possible ; and I found, after a careful 
inquiry, that I had got a nondescript, whose very 
class seemed dubious^.” Of the manner in which 
this singular insect (^Stylops) introduced its eggs 
into the body of a bee nothing is yet known, and its 
rarity puts it out of the reach of the most eager 
observers. Several species of the same genus have 
since been found near London, and an allied genus 
{Xenos) has since been discovered parasite in wasps 
by Professor Peck, in America. 



Bee Parasite. {Stylops Molitta-, Kirby.) 

De Geer was one day much surprised to ob- 
serve a small white grub sucking the body of a young 
spider {Epeira diademei), having attached itself 

* Monogr. Ap, Angl, ii, 113. 





firmly to the abdomen. Having pnt it into a crlass, 
he remarked a few days afterwards, that the spider 
had spun the outline of a vertical web, had stretched 
threads from the top to the bottom, and from one 
side to the other of the «;lass, togi;ether with the rays 
of a net, but without the circular threads. The most 
sinj^ular circumstance was, that the parasite orub 
was suspended in the centre of this web, where it 
spun its cocoon, while the exhausted spider had 
fallen dead to the bottom of the p;lass*. 

These examples will suffice to prove the anxious 
care of the mother insects in depositing their eggs 
where their progeny may find abundance of food. 
The tact with which they discover this is one of those 
mysteries of nature which are api)arently beyond 
the penetration of man ever to discover; for it is 
seldom that the mother insect herself feeds upon the 
same, or similar substances, as her larvsc, and yet 
she is well aware of what is appropriate for them. 
The ichneumon flies, whose history we have just 
been sketching, eat little, except, perliaps, a small 
quantity of honey from the nectary of a flower, 
and yet they know that their ])rogeny must be 
fed by living insects; the butterflies and moths, 
whose scanty repast also consists solely of the honey 
of flowers, never make a provision ol‘ this for their 
caterpillars, but deposit their eggs on plants and 
trees where their young may eal abundantly of 
leaves or other parts “ after their kind.’’ In making 
these selections, each sj)ecies exhibits some pecu- 
liarity well worthy of observation. Some confine 
themselves to one particular sort of plant, and never 
select any other ; some make choice indifferently of 
two or three sorts ; while others take a wider range, 
and fix upon plants of very dilferent qualities. To 
exemplify this, we might mention some thousands of 


* De Geer, Memoires, vol.ii, p. 8G3. 





instances, but it will be sufficient to say, that wc never 
find the ecf-^^s of the small tortoise-shell butterfly 
(V anessa vrticed) on any plant but the nettle; its 
cong:ener, the painted lady {Cynthia cardni, 
Stephens), thoujrh it prefers the spear-thistle, is 
sometimes found on the nettle, as is the comma 
{Vanessa C. Albim), thou«^h it seems to prefer the 
hop ; while we have found the ep;p;s of the lackey 
moth {Clisiocampa neusiria) on almost every bush 
and tree, from the sweetbriar to the oak, in woods, 
hedges, orchards, and e^ardcns, without any apparent 
preference beyond the accident of the mother moth 
alii^htinp^ on a y)articular branch. In the same way 
almost all those which deposit their cp,*p;s on salad 
plants, such as the g^reat tipper {Areiia Caja^ Ste- 
phens), will as readily select the nettle as the lettuce 
or dandelion 

It is worthy of remark that our native insects fre- 
quently make choice of exotic plants, by means of 
the instinctive tact which enables them to discover 
such as suit their pxirpose. The death’s-head hawk 
moth {Achcrontia Atropos), for example, is now 
usually found on the potatoe and the jasmine, but 
previous to the introduction of these into Britain, it 
probably confined itself to the bitter sweet {Solanum 
dulcamara). We have known the moth taken in 
Ayrshire, where this plant is abundant. An instance 
in point has just occurred to us in one of the minute 
leaf-miners. Upon the leaf of an exotic plant 
{Cineraria cruenta) kept in a g’arden-pot in our 
study, we were not a little surprised to observe the 
tortuous wiiiding;s of a miner, considerably dilferent 
in the outline from any we had before examined. 
ThouG;h it was so late as December, also, the g;rub 
seemed very active, and would sometimes mine nearly 
half an inch of the leaf in the course of the day. It 
J. R. 






was transformed within the leaf, in a few days, into 
a pupa, and beinp^pntundera bell-g^lass, a small two- 
winged fly (Tephritis SerratulfB ? ) made its appear- 
ance in about a fortnight. In some garden-pots, in 
another room of the same house, were exotic plants 
of the American groundsel (Senecio elegans), the 
leaves of which were crowded with miners, whose 
paths, however, were so very different as to indicate 
a different species; but upon their transformation 
into perfect insects, they turned out exactly the same. 
They proved, indeed, to be the same with the leaf- 
miners of the swine-thistle (^Sonchus olcraceus). 



localities op various species. 





numerous specimens of which we collected in the 
immediate vicinity ; but the flies of these, from their 
previous exposure to the cold out of doors, did not 
appear till a month later. It is worthy of remark, 
that the two exotic plants are of the same natural 
family {ComposittB) ; yet, notwithstanclinjr the simi- 
larity of the common groundsel {Senecio vulgaris) to 
the American, not one leaf of the former was found 
mined, though it is an abundant native plant*. 

It is no less remarkable, that the mother insects 
of the larvae which live solitary and those which 
live in society take care to deposit their eggs with 
regard to the respective destinations of their pro- 
geny. In our earlier studies we remember being much 
interested with Harris’s description of the admirable 
butterfly {Vanessa Atalanta)^ flitting rapidly and 
stealthily from field to field, and depositing only a 
single egg on a single nettle in each, as if she were 
afraid of overstocking one place and leaving others 
uninhabited by her descendants t- Our subsequent 
observation of the manners of the insect itself has led 
us to doubt the accuracy of Harris; for we think it 
will hold as a pretty general principle, that the mo- 
thers of solitary caterpillars, for the most part, deposit 
several eggs on the same plant, often at no great 
distance, and sometimes on the same leaf. No class 
of caterpillars coidd well be considered more solitary 
than those of the hawk moths {Sphingidee, Leach), 
yet we have found from two to three eggs ol* that 
of the poplar hawk {Smerijithus Populi) upon the 
same leaf, and a similar number of the eggs of the 
puss moth, the larva of which is also solitary, on one 
leafj ; whileofthe admirable butterfly above alluded 
to, we found, in 1825, as many as from three to six 
on every plant in a small patch of about a dozen 

* J. R. ¦]• See Harris’s Aurelian, vi. fol. Lond. 1778. 

J See Insect Architecture, p. 192. 





nettles, in Copenhao^cn-fiekls, Islinp;ton. A similar 
deposition of egfgs is made by several of the mothers 
of the subsolitary caterpillars which live in the wood 
of trees. Of this we had a p^ood example in the 
clear under-wiii«' {JE^eria r/.v////br772zs),above a score 
of the small black eg*«s of which we found deposited 
in a scattered irianiier on the trunk of a single poplar 
at Lee 

The most singular disposal of eggs with which 
we are acquainted in the economy of insects, is ex- 
emplified in the common gnat {Cvlex pipiens, Linn.). 
It is admirably described by Reaumur, though it 
seems first to have been discovered by Langallo, 
who mentions it in a letter addressed to Redi, printed 
at Florence in l(i79; and by Alloa, who actually 
saw the eggs laid, and afterwards sketched a figure 
of them. Those who wish to witness this singular 
operation, must repair before five or six o’clock in the 
morning to a [)on(l or a bucket of stagnant water 
frequented l)y gnats ; when Rf'aunmr went later in 
the day he was always disa])pointed. 

The facts of this disposal of her eggs by the com- 
mon gnat, are sulTiciently curious to excite attention 
to them ; and, therefore, it is not easily to be under- 
stood how the I'ol lowing erroneous and fanciful 
account originated. “ The manner,” says Gold- 
smith, “ in which the insect lays its eggs is particu- 
larly curious ; alter having laid the proper number on 
the surface of the water, it surrounds them with a 
kind of unctuous matter, which prevents them from 
sinking, but at the same time fastens them with a 
thread to the bottom, to prevent their floating away, 
at the mercy of every breeze, from a place the warmth 
of which is proper for their production, to any other 
where the w ater may be too cold, or the animals, its 
enemies, too numerous. Thus the insects, in their 
- J. R. 





state, resemble a buoy which is fixed by an 
anchor. As they come to maturity, they sink deeper^ 
and at last, when they leave the ejro- as worms, creep 
to the bottom*,'^ This fable, which was first men- 
tioned by Pliny, is repeated verbatim by Bins^ley f- 
The impossibility of a ^iiat spiiinin«^ a thread, and 
plunfi^iufj; into the water to fix it at the bottom, never 
struck these writers. 

We are the more anxious to expose these erroneous 
accounts, from a persuasion that a tiiste for natural 
history has been more injured by numerous similar 
statements, which could not be verified by a student, 
in many popular works, than by the driest skeleton 
descriptions of those who have merely pursued Natural 
History as a science of names. 

The ])roblem of the jj^nat is to construct a boat- 
shaped raft, which will float, of e^gs heavy enoug^h to 
sink in water if dropped into it one by one. The 
eg^s are nearly of the pyramidal form of a pocket 
g*unpowder-flask, rather pointed at the upper and 
broad at the under end, with a i)rojection like the 
mouth of a bottle. The first operation of the mother 
gnat is to fix herself by the four fore-legs to the side 
of a bucket, or upon a lloating leaf, with her body 
level with and resting upon the surface of the water, 
excepting the last ring of the tail, which is a little 
raised ; she then crosses her two hind legs in form oi* 
an X, the inner opening of which is intended to form 
the scafibldiiig of her structure. She accordingly 
brings the inner angle of her crossed legs close to the 
raised part of her body and places in it an egg, covered, 
as is usual among insects, with a glutinous fluid. On 
each side of this egg she places another, all which 
adhere firmly together by means of their glue, and 
form a triangular figure thus * * , which is the stern 

* Goldsmith, Animated Nature, vi.337. 
f Bingley, Animal Biography, iii. 43^, 3d ed, 

 


of the I’aft. She proceeds in the same manner to add 
ege; after egg^ in a vertical (not a horizontal) position, 
carefully regulatings the shape by her crossed legs ; and 
as her raft increases in magnitude, she pushes the 
whole gsradually to a greater distiince, and when she 
has about half-finished she uncrosses her legs and 
places them parallel, the angle being no longer neces- 
sary for shaping the boat. Each raft consists of 
from two hundred and fifty to three hundred and 
fitly eggs, which, when all laid, float on the water 
secure from sinking, and are finally abandoned by 
the mother. They are hatched in a few days, the 
grubs issuing from the lower end ; but the boat, now 
composed of the empty shells, continues to float till it 
is destroyed by the weather^. 



Gnats form in jf their boats. «, represents the commeneement 

of the boat of egfjs ; />, the boat about two-thirds completed ; c, 
the perlfct boat resting on the surface of the water. 


Kirby justly descriljes this little vessel as resembling 
a London wherry, being sharp and higher, as sailors 
say, /ore and aft^ convex below and concave above, and 
always floating on its keel. “ The most violent agita- 
tion of the water,” he adds, “cannot sink it, and what is 
more extraordinary, and a property still a desideratum 
in our life-boats, though hollow, it never becomes 

? lU*aumur, Mem, iv, p. G21, 






filled with water, even thoiijrh exposed. To put this 
to* the test, I placed half a dozen of these Iwats upon 
the surface of a tumbler half-full of water : I then 
poured upon them a stream of that element from the 
mouth of a quart bottle held a foot above them. Yet 
after this treatment, which was so roup^h as actually 
to project one out of the p;lass, I found them floating 
as before upon their bottoms, and not a drop of w^ater 
within their cavity*.’* We have repeatedly pushed 
them to the bottom of a glass of water; but they 
always came up immediately to the surface appa- 
rently unwetted. 



Magnifipd view of flu* boat ol gnats’ 


We have contented ourselves with giving here 
only a few examples of the maternal care wliich is 
displayed by insects in dej)Ositing their eggs, though 
we could have filled the volume with similar details. 
The instincts which are thus displayed are of the 
most interesting description ; and they cannot fail to 
impress the most careless observer with a deep reve- 
rence of that providential wisdom by which they are 
implanted in these small and feeble creatures for the 
maintenance of their race. But it is not essential, in 
order to produce this reverence, to exaggerate the cir- 
cumstances under which these remarkable peculiarities 
are displayed. The infallibility of the instinct of in- 
sects in such cases is, in most books of natural his- 
tory, maintained to be without exception. “ Led by 
an instinct,” say Kirby and Spence, “ far more un- 
lutrod. iii. p. 32 . 





erring than the practised eye of the botanist, she re- 
cop^nizes the plant the moment she approaches it*.” 
And again, they talk of “ the vnerring foresight with 
which the female deposits her eggs in the precise 
place where the larvaB when excluded are sure to find 
suitable food t.’’ This unconditional position requires, 
however, to be considerably modified to make it cor- 
respond with the facts. The experiment we gave from 
Redi in our first chapter, in which the carnivorous 
flies laid their eggs on the silk and paper covering 
tainted meat, will occur to every reader as one striking 
exception ; and we can mention several others still 
more marked. When Dr. Arnold discovered that 
most singular parasitic plant, the krubut, of Sumatra, 
{RaffieMa Arnoldii, Brown,) which consists of a 
flower only, without leaf or stem, and of the extra- 
ordinary diameter of three feet, he perceived a swarm 
of flies hovering over the nectary, and apparently 
laying their eggs in its substance, mistaking it most 
probably for carrion, as it smelt like tainted beef J. 
A similar mistake is committed in our own country, 
when the common blow-fly (Musca vomitoiia) lays 
its eggs in the foetid funguses (Phalli, A garici, &c.), 
apparently under the notion that these are genuine 
carrion §. This may be more particularly observed 
on the singular class of plants, stapelias, which are 
so common in our hot-houses : whole families of 
maggots are constantly born to starve in their foetid 
flowers. 

These are instances of the mistakes of instinct in 
circumstances where it depends upon the information 
of the senses ; and similar mistakes frequently occur 
where the higher ])owers of human rationality are 
deceived by analogous phenomena. The fine nutty 
flavour of cherry laurel water and of prussic acid 

? Introd. i. p. 340. 4' Ibid. iii. p. 65. 

\ R, Brow'ji; Linn. Trans, vol. xiii. § Smellie, Philos, of Nat. Hist. 





would be certain to deceive the inexperienced ; and 
Majendie’s servant actually fell an immediate vic- 
tim to her desire of tasting* the prussic acid which 
she found in his laboratory. This would be consi- 
dered perhaps a mistake arising from the artificial 
habits acquired in society, by those who maintain 
that animals, guided by instinct, never mistake poison 
for food. But we may add another curious instance 
or two of similar mistakes in the inferior races. 

The common earth-worm {Li/mbricus terresfris) 
is instinctively afraid ol‘ moles ; and no sooner does 
it hear any subterranean noise, or feci any shaking of 
the ground, similar to those indicative of the ap- 
j)roaching movements f)f its enemy, than it makes a 
speedy escape to the surface. Every boy knows how 
to take advantage of this to ])rocure lish-baits, by 
thrusting a spade or a stake into the ground, and 
moving it backwards and forwards, to imitate the 
advance of a mole burrowing in search of prey. 
The worm, unable from its instinct to discriminate 
between its subterranean enemy and the spade, darts 
into day-light, and is instantly captured for the boy^s 
bait-bag. The lapwing anelliis cridatua, Meyer), 
it is stated by Dr. Anderson in his ‘ Bee,’ is aware 
of this instinctive fear in the earth-worm of sub- 
terranean concussions or noises; and when it can- 
not find sudiciency of slugs &c. above ground, 
it pats with its feet, till the earth-worms, mistaking 
it for an advancing mole, come forth to be feasted 
upon. 

It is well known that, whenever a hawk appears, 
he is immediately surrounded by a host of small 
birds, particularly swallows, which dart at him and 
tease him, jbr the purpose, as may be suj)posed, of 
distracting liis attention, on the princiide that 

^ “ Nourriture; — in>ectus, aiaijjnees, \ers, ct petite lima^ons,” 
Temminck, Manuel d’Ornithologie, p. 552, 2d. edit. 

u 3 



 


* wealth makes wit waver.’ Be this as it may, the 
cuckoo, which bears a strong resemblance to a 
hawk when on the win^, is certain to be accom- 
panied by a similar retinue of small birds wherever 
it flies. In the north this is so commonly observed, 
that the cuckoo is popularly believed to be always 
attended by a titling or pippet {^AntJuni pratensis, 
Bechstein), which, it is further ima«;ined, has been 
its stepmother and nurse from the epi^g : this, indeed, 
is the bird whose nest the cuckoo most frequently 
selects to deposit the e^j^s which she so strangely 
and unnaturally abandons ; though it is more pro- 
bable that it is not on this account, but because she 
appears to be a hawk, that the pippet and other small 
birds persecute her. 

Linnajus records in his ‘ Lachesis Lapponica,’ 
that at Tornea there is a meadow, or bog, full of 
water-hemlock {Cienta virosa)^ which annually 
destroys from fifty to a hundred head of cattle. It 
seems that they eat most of it in spring, when first 
turned into the pasture, partly from their eagerness 
for fresh pasture, and partly from their long fasting 
and greediness, the lierbage being then short. Be- 
sides, from the immersion of the hemlock under 
water, it may not have the proper scent to deter 
them. A similar destruction of cattle from the same 
cause occurs in the wide meadows of Leinings^. 

* J. R., in Mag. of Nat. Hist., I. 374, 


 


Hybernation of Insert Ejfflfs. — Infrrnuity of Moths. — Sing;iilaritie8 of Co- 
clienille Insectii and of Spiders. — ^Experiments of Spallanzani and John 
Hunter. 

The assertion of Paley that “ the human animal is the 
only one which can clothe itself*,” though it accords 
with what is known of quadrupeds, birds, and fishes, 
by no means holds good in the insect world, in 
which it may be disproved by the most superficial 
observer t- Men, indeed, proceed by means of rea- 
soning and experiment to the discovery of such ma- 
terials as are best fitted for protecting their bodies 
against the vicissitudes of temperature, and other 
changes of weather; while insects are taught by the 
Governor of the Universe to select instinctively the 
best materials for their clothing. This is exemplified 
in a very remai kable manner in the coverings made 
by difierent families for protecting their eggs, as we 
shall now describe. 

The maternal affection of the eider duck (Anas 
moliissima, Linn.) has frequently been celebrated by 
naturalists, from her stri])ping the down from her own 
breast to form her nest, a circumstance which is also 
exemplified in the common rabbit ; but both of these 
animals are outrivalled by more than one moth : — 
for the latter, not contented with a nest made of their 
own down, take pains to cover with it each individual 
egg. The provision which nature lias made for this 
purpose is worthy of attention. The female, for ex- 
ample, of the gypsey moth (Hypogymua dispar) has 
the hinder parts of her body thickly clothed with a 

? Nuturarriicology, p. 230. 11th edit, 
f See Insect Aichitecturc/* chaps, x., xii,, &c. 





soft down of a hair-brown colour, which is wanting 
in the male, evidently because to him it would be of 
no use. As a covering for her own body, it can be 
of but small service, since she emerges from her 
pupa-case during the hot days of August, and does 
not usually live more than a week or a fortnight. Its 
chief or sole purpose, therefore, is to furnish a co- 
vering for her eggs. 

When about to lay, the mother gypsey moth places 
herself on tlie trunk of an oak or an elm, invariably 
with her head downwards, the reason of which posi- 
tion will be immediately explained. Without the aid 
of her legs, which are too short to be used like 
those of the gnat by way of rule and compass, she 
contrives to place her eggs in the form of an inverted 
cone. She first makes a little bed of this down, into 
which she thrusts the egg intended for the point of 
her cone ; and this egg, being covered with adhesive 
gluten, attaches around it all the hairs of the down 
with which it comes in contact, and also sticks to the 
bark of the tree, from its being ])ushed home. Pro- 
ceeding in the same manner, slie continues lor seve- 
ral hours adding to the mass ; but she does not in 
general finish the operation in less than two days, 
indulging in occasional rests when fatigued with her 
labour. At intervals, also, she takes care to protect 
the eggs placed in the cone with an exterior covering 
of the same down. There is one part of these opera- 
tions not a little remarkable. In the bed which she 
first makes for the eggs, the hairs of t!ic down either 
point at right angles to the bark of the tree, or at 
least are tossed down with little regularity ; but in 
tile external coping, which is designed to keep out the 
winter rains, the hairs are carefully placed in a sloping 
direction, like the tiles on a house, or the pile of 
a well brushed hat, ]jointing downwards towards the 
base of the cone. The latter is usually concave, be- 





cause, when the moth takes her occasional rests, she 
never moves from the spot, but remains with her tail 
thrust in amonp;st the eg^^s. We liave f^iven these 
details from observations made in the Parc at Brus- 
sels, in Aupjust, 1829* ; and our entomological readers 
will perceive, that thoup^h they do notdisaG;ree with the 
facts observed by the accurate Reaumur, we have 
added several particulars not mentioned by him t- 
In order to preserve some specimens of the p^ypsey 
moth, which abounds in the Netherlands, but is rare 
in most parts of Brihiin, we inclosed two or three in 
chip boxes. U])on openin«* these, a short time after- 
wards, we found that one of the moths had deposited 
a patch of e^f>;s ; but, instead of the conical form which 
the insect would have chosen had shebeen at liberty, she 
had disposed them in the form of a wheel, of which her 
body was the radius. This, of course, was not so much to 
be wondered at, as it no doubt arose from her want of 
space to proceed in the usual manner ; but we deem it 
worthy of notice that this wheel, which was about a 
(juarter of an inch broad in the rim, was sloped with 






the s;reateRt rep^ularity, after the manner of a candle 
shade, and the down tiled upon it all round. Another 
of our prisoners, thoui^h precisely in the same circum- 
stances as to space, instead of forming a wheel, piled 
up her eggs in form of a circular mound ; but as the 
number of her eggs was not a sixth part of those of the 
other, (probably from her having deposited jmrt before 
we caught her,) this may have induced her to vary 
the shape of the group. Like the others, however, the 
regular slope and tiling of the down was carefully 
preserved *. We have now (April, 1830) a numerous 
brood of caterpillars from these very eggs. 

The eggs, which are thus deposited with so much 
care, arc destined to abide all the pitiless pelting of 
the storms of winter ; for, although they are laid in 
August, they are not hatched till the elm comes into 
leaf ill the following* spring. The covering of down, 
accordingly, from the manner in which it is tiled and 
brushed smooth by the mother moth, not only protects 
them from wet, Imt from severe cold, being one of the 
best non-conductors of heat. The ex])eriments oi‘ 
modern chemical philosophers have proved beyond a 
doubt, tliat the warmest material for clothing is not 
what imparts most heat to the body, but what best 
prevents the escape of the heat generated there. The 
feeling of cold, therefore, does not, as might be sup- 
j)()sed, arise from anything positively cold, but solely 
from a deficiency of heat. On putting the hand, for 
example, on a piece of ice, the feeling of cold docs 
not arise from cold given out by the ice to the hand, 
but from the heat which the ice takes from the hand, 
which heat can be actually traced in the water formed 
by the melting of the ice. But when the hand is laid 
upon wool, feathers, or down, these do not feel cold, 
because they do not carry off the heat of the skin so 
rapidly as the ice. 


* J.ll. 





It may appear a little paradoxical, though the doc- 
trine is sound, to assert that down and similar ma- 
terials are nearly as well calculated for protecting an 
animal from excessive outward heat as from severe 
cold» This, however, has been long well known as a 
fact to the Neapolitan peasantry, who convey snow 
from Mount Vesuvius to Naples in the summer lor the 
purposes of luxury : they preserve it from melting by 
covering it with chaff and wool. It may not be out 
of place to remark that instances of this occur among 
insects, precisely similar to what we have just detailed 
respecting the gypsey m()th. The brown-tail and the 
golden-tail moths (Porlhesia mirifua^ and P. Chry~ 
sorrhma^ Stephens), whose caterpillars spin themselves 
a warm nest before the setting-in of the winter colds*, 
seem no less careful to protect their eggs from the 
summer heats of July and August, at which time they 
are dei)osited. The down with which they are fur- 
nished for this purpose grows upon the tail of the 
female moth, in form of a thick tuft or brush, of a 
shining silky gloss, and of a different colour from the 
short hair on the body. It may be remarked that 
moths have only a mouth tube for sucking honey, and 



lemales of the brown and {rold-tailed moths, showing the bunch 
of down on the tails. 


See Ihi:ect Architecture/’ p,329“ 





no mandibles or jaws like bees, wasps, and beetles, 
for performinc^ any mechanical labour ; but the moths 
in question have an oro;an admirably contrived for 
covering their ego^s with down. This consists of an 
extensile instrument, situated in the tail, not unlike 
the points of a ])air of sugar-tonp^s, and intended to 
perform the j)art of tweezers in ])ullin^ off the down, 
and placing it upon the eg-o's. Having reared nume- 
rous broods of the moths alluded to, we can testify 
to the minute accuracy of Reaumur in detailing 
their proceedings. He remarks, that though the 
mother moth is exceedingly sluggish (lourde) in her 
general movements, she emi)loys her tweezers with 
surprising quickness, on all sides, first, to pull off a 
pinch of down, and spread it out, and then to place the 
egg upon it, and cover it neatly over, and smooth the 
down in the j)roper direction. The nature of the in- 
strument will be better understood by the following 
figures. 



Tweezers of the brown and ffold-tailed moths, rna/fiiilioil. 

Reaumur has figured the deposition of the eggs 
of an insect, the species of which is not ascertained, sent 
him by a physician of Lu^on, which are covered, like 
the preceding, with down, but are arranged in an 
elegant spiral form, as if a lady would wind one of 
the ends of her fur tippet spirally round a branch. 

• Savigny, however, has displayed much acumen in site wing 
how the suckers of moths, &c., are analogous to mandibles, — Me- 
moires sur ks Aninu sans V :rteb. 





These e^i^s were extremely small, and the down very 
fine, like the short fur of the beaver, and of a pretty 
squirrel-^rey colour. The eggs were oblong, and 
placed on end, at right angles to the branch ; as was 
also their downy envelope, which differed in this re- 
spect from tlie imbricated and smoothly brushed 
coping of the moths above described. There is no- 
thing of this kind, says Reaumur, which we ought 
to consider it difficult for an insect to execute, when 
we are accpiaintcd with the admirable instruments 
with which nature has furnished them 



The spiral form of eggs deposited upon a branch 
may, in particular years, be seen in almost every 
orchard and every hedge, being the method followed 
by the lackey moth {Clisiommpa iieustria^ Ste- 
phens) and its congeners. The precise manner iii 
which the mother lackey proceeds has not, so far as 
we know, been witnessed by any naturalist ; and 
though Reaumur reared a great number on pur- 
pose to discover it, all his efforts proved unsuccessful. 
An examination, however, of the arrangement of the 
eggs themselves, shews that they are placed in a 
manner excellently adapted to secure their adhesion 
to the branch, and to prevent their sustaining injury. 
The egg is somewhat of the form of a fimnel-shaj)ed 
wine-glass — broader at top than at bottom f ; and it 
? lU'aumur, Mcrn.ii. 107. 

+ See two of these eggs figured in “ Insect Architecture,” 
p.l9. 



 


is worthy of remark, that this is the precise form of the 
arch-stones of a bridg^e. They are, in fact, built toge- 
ther in the arched form. This, together with the 
strong cement employed in uniting them, renders 
it difficult to crush them, though considerable force 
be used for that })urpose ; and this even when they are 
slipped off the bninch, round which they are set like 
pearls on a bracelet, which is the name given them 
by the French peasantry. The cement, also, is so 
hard, that when pressed it resists the nail, though it 
may be pierced with the point of a sharp knife ; and 
not being soluble in water, “nor in any other liquid,’’ 
says Swammerdam, “ which I have tried,” the heaviest 
rain dashes upon the eggs without injury. 



It may be a question with some, when they com- 
pare these naked eggs of the lackey moth, exposed on 
a bare bnincli, with the warm downy co^erillg of those 
of the gypsey moth, how the former are protected 
from the colds of winter. This is a question which 
previous researches cannot fully answer, but one cir- 
cumstance is obvious — the lackey’s eggs are many 
degrees harder than those of the gy])sey, wliich may 
be easily crushed. Probably also, this may be con- 
nected with their electrical state; and that has always 






an intimate connection with heat in animated bodies. 
The livinfij principle, to which we shall by and bye 
advert, must also be taken into account. 

In consequence of the minuteness of insect eggs, 
notwithstanding the researches of enthusiastic ento- 
mologists, we are still unacquainted with by far the 
greater number. The hybernation of eggs is, there- 
fore, a subject upon which little is known. In the 
egg state insect life is, perhaps, less liable to acci- 
dents, than in a more advanced stage of existence ; 
and it is most probable that the greater number re- 
main unhatched during the cold season. Different 
modes of depositing eggs are resorted to by different 
species of the same genus, as may be exemplified in 
the plant lice (^Aphides), It was observed by De 
Geer, that those of the birch and the blackthorn 
(^Aphis Alni, and A. Pruni) covered each egg indivi- 
dually with a white cottony down, detached from their 
bodies by means of their hind legs, and placed by the 
same means over the eggs^. But the greater number 
of this family lay their eggs in an exposed situation, 
upon the plants where the young, when hatched, may 
find food. Thus Kirby found the small black eggs of 
a large species on the buds of birch-trees ; and we 
have just discovered (Jan. 1830) a numerous deposit 
of the eggs of the magpie plant-louse {Aphis Sam- 
bud) on an elder tree, where the insect was abundant 
the preceding summer f. These eggs arc exceedingly 
minute,but easily observed on account of their shining 
black colour. They are placed in an irregular patch 
upon a ])art of the trunk from which the bark has 
been stripped off, and are entirely unprotected. 

The cochenille insects {CoeddfP Leach), so called 
from one of the species furnishing the well-known 
valuable dye-stuff, protect their eggs in a still more 

* De Geer, Mem. sur les Insectes, iii. 48, 51. t K 

 


remarkable 'manner. The mother deposits her e^g‘s 
under her body, which becomes ^lued to the spot ; she 
then dies, and her body becomes a covering for the 
eggs. In this state the insects appear on the bark 
of trees like small warts, some species in the form of 
a boat, some kidney-shaped, and others globular ; 
and, before their history was understood, they were 
with some plausibility supposed to be vegetable galls, 
— whence they were termed Gall Insects by the French. 

Though the mother insect is seldom larger than a 
peppercorn, the number of eggs which she lays 
amounts to several thousands, and in fact fills the 
greater portion of her body. Those which are found 
on our green-house plants, and which are the pest 
of the grape-vines in the neighbourhood of London, 
both in and out of doors, secrete a sort of white 
silky gum, very like gossamer, as the first bed of 
their eggs. Reaumur could not discover that the 
mother insect was furnished with any organ similar 
to those of spiders and caterpillars for spinning this 
gossamer; and in an allied genus (Dor/^ma), Kirby 
and Spence talk of it as “ wire-drawn through nu- 
merous pores in certain oval plates in the skiii^.’* 
Having minutely observed, during several successive 
summers, some thousands of the female cocci found 
on vines in the open air, we have satisfied ourselves 
that this cottony matter is precisely similar to the 
gluten which envelopes the eggs of most insects ; 
and that it is neither spun like the threads of cater- 
pillars, or the webs of spiders, nor wire- drawn 
through numerous pores, — ^but is simply excluded 
along with the eggs. We may remark, also, that the 
covering formed by the body of the mother coccus 
prevents this substance from drying, as the webs of 
spiders do ; and, consequently, it can at any time be 
* Introd. iii., p. 183. 





drawn out into extended threads, by detaching a few 
of the eggs from the mass. 



Kp:£!:s> of the Coceus covered Avith down, and with the bodies, 
ol the mothers. 


All account, which appears to us altogether apo- 
cryphal, has been given of the migrations of the 
species which produces the cochenille (Coccus CaclU 
Linn). From the females remaining stationary, 
it is said, their numerous progeny would not find 
sulficient nutrinient on their native tree; and they 
arc, at the same time, st) delicate, that they conld not 
travel along tlie ground from one plant to another; 



Magnified cochenille insects, {Coccus cacti), a, Male. 6, Female. 

 


but nature, it is alleged, provides for them admirable 
means of emigration, since, at the period of their 
birth, a multitude of spiders fasten their nets to the 
leaves of the nopal, and along these, which serve 
them for bridges, the young cocci emigrate to the 
adjacent trees *. We have little doubt that this story 
has originated in the inaccurate observations of some 
fanciful traveller, who mistook the threads accidentally 
drawn out from the mass of eggs, for those of a 
spider. 

The gossamer envelope, however, which we have 
just described as covering the eggs of the coccus that 
is common on our British vines, is not intended as a 
defence against the cold of winter; for this species 
hybernates, according to Reaumur, in the laiTa state, 
though we have frequently searched for these larvaj 
in vain during winter, on vines where they swarmed 
in mjTiads during summer. But the Britisli species 
of coccus of the hawthorn, &c., on account of which 
we introduced the subject here, assuredly hybernates 
in the egg state ; and may be seen at the off-goings 
of the branchlets in an oval form, like that of a 
minute wood-louse (Oniscus), of a silvery grey 
colour, differing, indeed, but little from the tint of 
the bark. On raising up with the point of a pen- 
knife what appeared to be the body of the insect, we 
found that it was hard, dry, and dead, — the mere 
skin, in a word, of the mother coccus, while under- 
neath was a multitude of eggs of a deep orange 
colour. It is worthy of notice, also, that there is, 
then, no envelope of gossamer, though there is mixed 
up with the eggs a small quantity of a greyish white 
powder, which, we are inclined to conjecture, may 
be the dried remains of it ; and, the more so, that 
Reaumur figures the gossamer as abundant in the 
coccus of the hawthorn. Unfortunately he has not 
* St. Pierre, Studies of Nature, vol.i. 






mentioned at what season he procured these, and 
we have no means of ascertaining whether our species 
is the same with his^. 



a b r, Kp;G:s of flie liawtborn rocens, covered liy the body of tlio 
dead uiother. rf, oue of those niagiiilied. e, a section, shewing 
the eggs within. 

We have found the eggs just mentioned most 
abundant on the hawthorn in the hedges around 
London; but as the size, the colours, and the forms 
of the crust are very dillereut, there can be no doubt 
of there being diflerent species even on the same 
tree. “ In Jnl), 1812,” says Kirl)y, “ 1 saw a cur- 
rant-busli miserably ravaged by a sjtecies of coccus 
very much resembling the coccus of the vine. The 
eggs were of a beautiful pink, and enveloped in a 
large mass of cotloii-like web, which could he drawn 
out to a considerable length f.” From the manner in 
which this justly popular author speaks, it would ap- 
pear he had not elsewhere met with this coccus ; but 

t hilr.i. 197. 





it is by no means of rare occurrence, and may be found 
on most currant-bushes, and often on hawthorns, &c. 
around London. Tiie envelope of the egj^s is of a 
chestnut- brown colour. 

A much more singular species occurs in company 
with the preceding, and abounds on the currant- 
bushes at Lee. From their resemblance to the form 
of one of the valves of a mussel-shell, Reaumur 
named this species en coqnille (Coccus coiichiformis, 
Gmelin). He says, it imposed uj)on him for several 
years, as he supposed it to be the cocoon of some 
minute insect about to go into the pupa state ; but he 
was undeceived by finding them full of eggs. We 
were more disposed, at first, to look upon tliem as a 
subcortical fungus (such as Cucurbitaria Berber idis, 
Grev. or Cryptospfifsria Pleridis, Sowertj.), for, 
during the winter, when we first observed them, they 
appeared exactly like a little slip of' the bark elevated 
by the growth of a fungus below it. Then they were 
so crowded on some branches, that not a hair’s breadth 
of the bark remained uncovered. When, however, we 
found these minute bark-like scales full of eggs, we 
were inclined to conjecture that they had been depo- 
sited by saw-flies cutting into the bark ; but this was 
instantly disproved by removing them, and finding the 
bark below sound and uncut. Reaumur put the 
matter, beyond dispute by actually hatching the 
eggs, when insects were produced similar to other 
cocci. But our species, found on the currant-bush, 
seems to differ from his of the elm, not in form and 
colour, but in habit, being gregarious, while his was 
subsolitary 

During the severe frost of 1829*30, we observed 
several small birds, such as the long-tailed titmouse 
(Pams caudaius), and the gold-cresled wren (Rcpi- 

« j.'k. 



 


///.<? cristdtm, ^Ay)y busily peeking the eggs of the 
cocci in the hedges *. 

The resemblance of these singular insects to the 
wood-louse (Onisciis), which is not properly an in- 
sect, but a crustaceous animal, may be traced farther 
than mere external appearance ; for the body of the 
mother, in the latter, also becomes a covering for 
the egg, though she does not die immediately after 
laying as the coccus does, but carries her eggs 
under her breast in small four-valved cells. 

One of the most easily discovered depositions of 
eggs during the winter months are those made by 
various species of spiders, particularly that of the 
large garden-spider (Epcira diadema), which may 
be found in the angles of walls, in form of a ball, 
about the size of a cherry, of beautiful yellow silk, 
and much stronger than the common materials of 
the same spider’s geometric web. This substance 
Rt^aumur endeavoured to bring into use as a substitute 
for silk ; but he was unsuccessful in procuring it in 
fpiantity, owing to the ferocious habits of the spiders, 
which devoured one another when he reared them 
gregariously. As the eggs of spiders have usually a 
thin soft shell, a thick warm envelope of silk is, no 
doubt, essential to their weathering the colds of 
winter, notwithstanding the sheltered corners where 
they are usually placed. Some species weave these 
little silken nests in a very elegant form. We possess 
one of the pyriform shape of a balloon, the texture 
of which is close and netted with diagonal meshes. 
One, somewhat in form of a drinking-glass, is figured 
in Loudon’s Magazine of Natural History, as having 
been found near Wandsworth, attached to the stein 
of a rush growing in water. 

There was a deposition of eggs at the bottom, the 
rest of the space being vacant. De Geer describes 





similar spiders^ nests attached to the stems of j^ss * ; 
and we once found a larj^e one of an elongated 
shape, and composed of very white silk, on a spike of 
grass at Compton-B asset, Wiltshire t- 



Spiders* nests. 

The vapourer {Orgyia antiqua, Ociisenh.), a com- 
mon moth, takes advantage of the warm silken enve- 
lope of the pupa-case, from which she has escaped a 
few days before, to form a bed for her eggs. In our 
earlier studies of insect economy we were inclined to 
ascribe to accident the deposition of the eggs in this 
particular situation, but we have found so many 
instances of it as to reject the explanation. Swam- 
merdam also observes, that “ this custom of fastening 
the eggs to the web in a constant method, and 
by the immutable law of nature, is so peculiar 
to this species of insects, that I have never ob- 
served it in any other kind whatsoever. This 
female,” he subjoins, “like a most prudent house- 
wife, never leaves her habitation, but is always 
fixing her eggs to the surface of the web out 
of which she has herself crept, thus affording a 
beautiful instance of industrious housewifery];.” One 
? De Geer, Mem., vol. \ii. pp. ‘227 — 9. f J. R. 

t Swammerdam, pt. ii. page 7. 





reason for this is, that the female of this moth 
having; only the rudiments of wing;s, a peculiarity 
remarkable in several other moths, she cannot shift 
so readily about. But whatever may be the real 
cause, there can be no doubt that the web serves to 
keep the eg;g;s warm during; winter ; for though they 
are placed on the outside of the web, the whole is 
usually under some projection of a wall or arm of a 
tree, and the non-conducting property of the silk, 
both with regard to heat and electricity, must be of 
great benefit to the eggs in })rcserving them in an 
equable temperature, and of course promoting their 
early hatching. 



VaponrerMoth (Or^;/ia antiqua\mhh and feniale, the latter 
without winps ; with the ejrgs laid upon^the silken cocoon from 
which the mother has issued. 


We cannot better conclude these imperfect sketches 
of the hybernation of insect eggs, than by an ac- 
count of the ingenious experiments made by 
Spallanzani and John Hunter, by exposing several 
species of these to great degrees of cold as well 
as of heat. It results from these experiments that 
“ intense cold,’’ to use the words of Spallanzani, 
“ does not destroy the eggs of insects. The year 
1709, when Fahrenheit’s thermometer fell to 1°, 
is celebrated for its rigour and its fatal effects on 
plants and animals. Who can believe, exclaims 
Boerhaave, that the severity of this winter did not 
destroy the eggs of insects, especially those exposed 
to its iiillueiice in the open fields, on the naked 





earth, or on the branches of trees ? Yet, when the 
springs had tempered the air, these ej^gs produced as 
they usually did alter the mildest winters. Since that 
period there have been winters more severe. In 
France, durini^ December, 1788, the thermometer 
fell considerably lower, and in several other tempe- 
rate European climates. 

“ I have exposed e^gs to a more rigorous trial 
than the winter of* 1709. Those of several insects, 
and among others the silk-worm, moth, and elm 
butterfly (l^aiiessa polychloros?) were inclosed in a 
glass vessel and buried five hours in a mixture of ice 
and sal gem (rock salt) ; the thermometer fell 6^ 
below zero. In the middle of the following spring, 
however, caterpillars came from all the eggs, and 
at the same time as from those that had sutt'ered no 
cold. Ill the following year, I submitted them to an 
experiment still more hazardous. A. mixture of ice 
and sal gem with the fuming spirit of nitre (Nitrate 
of Ammonia)^ reduced the thermometer 22^ below 
zero, that is 23^ lower than the cold of 1709. 
They were not injured, as I had evident proof 
by their being hatched. 

“ Combining all these facts, we conclude that cold 
is less noxious to germs and eggs, than to animalcula 
and insects. Germs in general can support 2*^ 
below zero ; whereas of animalcula some die at the 
freezing point, and some at about 20°. Tiie eggs 
of many insects continue fertile after being subjected 
to a temperature of 22° below zero, while insects 
themselves die at 16° and 14°. Tliis I have ascer- 
tained in the eggs of the silk-worm moth and of the 
elm butterfly; and although there are caterpillars 
and chrysalides able to resist great cold, 1 have uni- 
formly found it to be in a less degree than what can 
be resisted by their eggs. What can be the cause of 
so great a ditference? Insects killed at 16^ and 14° 





are so penetrated and frozen by the cold, that their 
members do not yield to the pressure of the ftiij^er, 
and seem perfect ice under tlie knife. This does 
not happen to eggs, though subjected to cold of 
much «;reater intensity. Their contents remain fluid, 
even at the c^reatest cold, as may be seen by crn shin 
them with the nail. Perhaps this is derived from 
constituent spirituous or oleaj^inous parts, or from 
some principle ada})ted to abate the power of cold*. 
If eg’gs do not freeze, it is probable the included 
embryos do not freeze. Is there anything won- 
derful, therefore, that they then survive cold which 
is fatal to them when produced ? Probably for the 
same reason (and I see no objection tliat can apply), 
anirnalcula, concentrated in the germ, can support a 
decree of cold they are incapable of when developed. 

“As the temperature of freezing; still retains a 
portion of heat, why, it may be asked, should it not 
develope the germs of the most minute anirnalcula ? 
Had we never seen any eggs hatched but those of 
birds, which require 104*^, wc should have concluded 
that all others require the same. A little initiation 
into the study of minute animals teaches how many 
kinds produce at a tem])erature infinitely less. Such 
are the eggs of butterflies and many otlier insects, of 
frogs, lizards, tortoises, down to some, as those ol’ 
toads, which I have seen produce at 45^^ If these 
eggs hatch at 59^ less than is rc(juired by those of 
birds, what repugnance will there be to sui)pose that 
at 13° less, or the freezing point, the eggs of other 
animals may be hatched ? Nor should it surprise me 
to be told of animals whose eggs would produce at 
much greater cold, after knowing that there are plants, 
beings so similar to animals, and many of them, 

? In plain language, Spallanzani did not know vv hat to make of 
the facts. 


K 


 


which amidst the rigours of winter flourish and fruc- 
tify*.” 

It is remarked by John Hunter that an egg will 
freeze by a great degree of cold ; at the same time 
there seems to be a living principle which enables it to 
support cold without destruction, and when once that 
principle is destroyed, cold more easily operates. An 
egg was thus frozen by the cold of zero ; after thaw- 
ing and again exposing it to the same degree of cold, 
it froze seven minutes and a half sooner. A new-laid 
egg took an hour to freeze in 15° and 17°, but when 
thawed, it froze at 25° in half the timet* 

The principle of vitality, therefore, whatever may be 
the cause, is evidently less easily destroyed in the egg 
state than in the perfect animal; and therefore the 
inference that a rigorous winter promises a diminution 
of insects in the summer succeeding commonly proves 
erroneous. On the contrary, recorded facts prove that 
they are sometimes even more abundant than usual 
after severe frosts. During the present spring of 
1830, accordingly, notwithstanding the severe frosts 
of the preceding winter, we have observed a much 
greater number of insects, even of the smaller and 
more delicate kinds {Aleyrodes, CorethrUy Alvcitay 
&c.) as well as of larvae, both those just hatched, and 
those which have lived through the winter, than last 
year, when the frost was not so severe. We were 
particularly struck with the larvae of some small 
tipula which we found in abundance 

in Birch Wood, Kent, feeding on a fungus (Boletus 
fomentarius. Fries), and which were so beautifully 
transparent and soft, that we could not understand 
how they had escaped being frozen. It is not a 
little remarkable, in connexion with this, that the 

* Spallanzani’s Tracts, transl. by Dalyell; vol, i, p, 63. 

t Hunter ou the Animal Economy, 






minatory birds seem to have been aware of this 
abundance of insects by their appearing earlier than 
usual. We saw a pair of nightingales at Greenhithe 
on the 21st of March, and a number of swallows the 
same week at Lee, — which is two or three weeks be- 
fore their average time*. 






Hatching of Insect Eggs. 

The contents of an ee^e^ principally consist of 
nutriment adapted to the diflerent parts of the 
germ which it contains — the yolk for nourishing 
the soft parts ; the white, lor the blood and other 
fluids ; and the shell, lor the bones. In the case of 
insects, as well as of birds, fishes, and reptiles, the 
embryo is placed in the most advantageous posi- 
tion for partaking of the repast, — namely, in a parti- 
cular corner where it may breathe fresh air always 
communicated to the chamber ol‘ the egg by ^en- 
tilatory passages in the shell ; if these be shut up, 
by covering the egg with grease, varnish, or chalk, 
it is suffocated and dies. In the case of birds, 
according to Malpighi and the older physiologists 
the rudiment of the chick, while still a minute point, is 
lodged on the film that envelopes the yolk, near the 
centre of the egg ; and, — as the floating wick of a 
mariner’s lamp is constantly preserved upon a level 
with the surface by the mobility oi’ the slings and the 
weight of the oil-vcssel tending downwards, how- 
ever the ship move, — there is an ingenious natural 
mechanism, which prevents the embryo chick from 
being upset when the egg is stirred. The yolk is 
sustained by two membranous ribbons, visible at the 
aperture of the egg, and fastening it on each side to 
the common membrane glued to the shell. These 
suspensory bands being fixed above the centre of the 

?Malpighi, dc Ovo incubato; Lceuwenhoeck, Epist. phys, 
xl. j and Harvey, in Willoughhy’.s Ornilhol, c. iii. 






yolk, of course the more weig^hty part always de- 
scends, in every position of the as far as they 
will permit, and the chick being: thence prevented 
from sliding down, nourishes itself in security. 

We cannot, on account of their minuteness, ascer- 
tain whether there is any similar mechanical contriv- 
ance in the eg:^s of insects; but we have in several 
instances distinctly observed the speck where the 
embryo insect was placed just within the shell of 
the e^^. In order to stimulate it to feast and 
fatten on the g:ood things stored up in his ej^g:-shell 
chamber, it appears that a certain degpree of heat 
is indispensably requisite; for cold, though it does 
not usually, as we have seen, kill the embryo, almost 
always renders it toqiid. But the stimulus of 
heat produces activity in the livinp: principle, causes 
the embryo to devour all the nutritive contents of the 
eg-g:, and thence to increase proportionably in size. 
It is worthy of remark, however, that the stimulus of 
lig:ht, contrary to that of heat, acts unfavourably upon 
the hatching: of eg:g:s. Both of these positions may 
be illustrated by numerous facts and experiments. 

Most birds, so far as has been ascertained, supply 
the heat necessary for hatching: their eg:g;s by sitting; 
constantly upon them during: a certain number of 
days ; but reptiles, such as the crocodile, bury their 
eg:^s in the warm sand upon the banks of rivers. 
Insects, attain, seldom, if ever, sit upon their eg:f^s, as 
birds do, in order to hatch them. This, indeed, 
would be impossible, as the g;reater number of insects 
die ill a few days after depositing; their eg:g;s, the con- 
tinuation of the species being: apparently their only 
business in their last or perfect stag:e ; since, as they 
then £^enerally cease to feed, they cannot possibly live 
long:. A few instances, however, have been observed, 
of insects performing; something very similar to the 




incubation of birds, thoup^h we have the hip^h authority 
of Fabricius, that “ insects never sit upon their eg;p;s 
Upon the incontestable statements of two dis- 
tinp;uished observers of insects, Frisch t and De 
Geer, the female of the common earwig {Forjimla 
auricularia^ Linim.) sits upon her eggs. This 
circumstance, however, seems to have escaped the 
notice of other naturalists, though her attentions to 
her young ones is often witnessed. De Geer disco- 
vered a feinale earwig in the beginning of April 
under some stones, and brooding over a number of 
eggs, of whose safety she appeared to be not a little 
jealous. In order to study her proceedings the better, 
he placed her in a nursc-box filled with fresh earth, 
and scattered the eggs in it at random. She was not 
long, however, in collecting them with all care into 
one spot, caiTying them one by one in her mandibles, 
and placing herseli'over them. She never left them 
for a moment, sitting as assiduously as a bird does 
while hatching. In about five or six weeks the grubs 
were hatched, and were then of a whitish colour 
At another time, in the beginning of June, De 
Geer found under a stone a female earwig accompa- 
nied with a numerous brood of young, to all appear- 
ance newly hatched, and nestling under their mother 
like chickens under a hen. These he likewise placed 
in a nurse-box with fresh earth; but instead of burrow- 
ing into the mould, as he had expected, they crowded 
under the bosom and between the legs of their mo- 
ther, who remained quiet and evidently jdeased, suf- 
fering them to continue there for an hour or more at 
a time. He fed both this brood and the one first 
mentioned with bits oi’ripe apple; and perceived that 

* Fabricius, Vbilosoph. Etilomol. Ixxvi. 

f Inscrlen in Dt'utschland, 4lo. 17t)G. 

I De Cicei, Mem., vol. iii. p. 548, 






they p^rew from day to day, and cast their skins, as 
caterpillars do, more than once. The mother did not 
live long, probably in consecpience of confinement ; 
and her progeny devoured nearly the whole of her 
body, as they also did the bodies of their brethren, 
when any of these chanced to die. We may remark, 
in passing, that it is an unfounded popular ])rejudice 
that earwigs get into the brain by creeping into the 
ear ; for though, from being night insects, and dis- 
liking exposure to the light, tliey may, by chance, 
attempt to take shelter in the ear, the disagreeable 
odour of the wax will soon drive them out: at all 
events they could never get farther than the drum, 
w'hich completely shuts the ])assage to the brain. 
We have known, indeed, a small beetle, get into the 
ear; but it did no further injury than produce a 
strjinge tingling sensation by crawling about the 
drum, and soon made its exit"^. A little red insect 
(the harvest-bug?) sometimes gets into the ear in 
bed, and produces wonderful commotion, but no real 
injury. 



Drum of the car, shewing that there is no passage through it to 
the hrain. 


Kirby and Spence are inclined to infer that a tree 
bug {Acanihosoma Stephens) may also sit 





upon its e^^s because De Geer found a mother of 
this species surrounded with a brood of thirty or forty 
younj^ ones following her as chickens follow a hen. 
She never leaves her family; but as soon as she 
moves, all the young ones closely follow, and as- 
semble around her in a cluster wherever she makes 
a halt. De Geer once cut a branch of birch, upon 
which a family of these bugs had assembled, and the 
mother shewed every symptom of fear and distress. 
Had she not had a family to protect, she would have 
taken immediate tlight ; but instead of this, she kept 
beating her wings rapidly and incessantly, and never 
stirred from her young. But even all this, affec- 
tionately maternal as it must be considered, is far 
from authorizing the conclusion that she sits upon 
her eggs ; though it is certain she must remain near 
them till they are hatched, unless she belong to 
those mentioned by Busch as ovo- viviparous f. 

One of the most common instances of something 
similar to birds hatching their eggs occurs in several 
species of spiders, which may he seen sitting near 
or upon the silken bag in which they have inclosed 
their eggs. Many of these mothers, however, die 
before their young are hatched, — all of them, per- 
haps, when the eggs are laid late in autumn. During 
the winter of lS’^y-30, we watched a considerable 
number of the geometric spiders {Epeirye) brooding 
over their eggs for several weeks ; but though the 
weather before Christmas was little more than an 
average degree of coldness, every one of them died, 
some living a longer time, and others a shorter^. But 
this is not the case with a very common wandering 
spider called by Dr. Lister the wolf (Lycom saccata, 
Latr.), Rttd first observed, we believe, by the cele- 
brated Harvey §. “ In order,” says Swammerdam, “ to 

Jl-' Iiilro. i. 35S, and iii. 101. 

f Scliiieider, Eur();)iiischc Schinetterlingc, i. 20G. J.R. 
llarvfy, Dii fjcncralionc. 





hatch her eggs the better, she carries them about as 
it were in a case, with wonderful solicitude and affec- 
tion; insomuch, that when the skin forming this case, 
which hangs to the hinder part of her body, is by 
any accident broken off, the little insect seeks after 
it with as much earnestness and industry as a hen for 
her lost chickens, and when found fastens it again 
to its place with the greatest marks of joy 

Bonnet has given a more detailed account of 
the manners of this spider, which, though no less 
fierce and ferocious in as])ect than her congeners, 
manifests an extraordinary change of mien when 
forcibly dejnived of her eggs. Then she instantly 
appears tame, stops to look around her, and begins 
to walk at a slow pace, and search on every side for 
what she has lost, nor will she even fly when one 
threatens to seize her. But should the exj)erimenter, 
moved with compassion, restore her bag of eggs, she 
catches it up with all haste, and darts away in a mo- 
ment ; or, when left undisturbed, will leisurely attach 
it again to her body. 

“ With a view,’* continues Bonnet, “ to put 
this singular attachment to a novel test, I one day 
threw a spider with her eggs into the pit-fall of an 
ant-lion (Jdyrmdion formicarivin) t. The spider en- 
deavoured to escape, and was eagerly remounting the 
side of the ])it, when 1 again tumbled her to the 
bottom, and the ant-lion, more nimble than the first 
time, seized the bag of eggs with its mandibles, and 
attempted to drag it under the sand. The spider, on 
the other hand, made the most strenuous efforts to 
keep her hold, and struggled hard to defeat the aim 
of the concealed depredator; but the gum which 
fastened her bag, not being calculated to withstand 
such violence, at length gave way, and the ant-lion 

* Book of Nature, pt. i. p. 24. 

f See Insect Architecture, p.209. 






was about to carry off the prize in triumph. The 
spider, however, instantly reg:ained it with her man- 
dibles, and redoubled her endeavours to snatch the 
bag from her enemy ; but her efforts were vain, for 
the ant-lion, being the stronger, succeeded in dragging 
it under the sand. The unfortunate mother, now 
robbed of her eggs, might have at least saved her 
own life, as she could easily have escaped out of the 
pit-fall ; but, wonderful to tell, she chose rather to 
be buried alive along with her eggs. As the sand 
concealed from my view what was passing below, I 
laid hold of the spider, leaving the bag in the power 
of the ant-lion. But the affectionate mother, de- 
prived of her bag, would not quit the spot where she 
had lost them, though I repeatedly pushed her with 
a twig. Life itself seemed to have become a burden 
to her since all her hopes and pleasures were gone for 
ever*.” 

That some portion of heat may be communicated 
to the eggs of the spider, which are thus carried so 
assiduously under her body, is highly probable ; and 
it is also, no doubt, advantageous to the young, when 
hatched, to have the assistance of their mother to open 
the bag for them, as was remarked by De Geerf; 
“ without which,” say Kirby and Spence, “ they 
could never escape J.” But that neither of these are 
indispensable conditions we have ascertained by re- 
peated experiments. We have taken a considerable 
number of these egg-bags from their mothers, and 
put them under inverted wine-glasses and into pill- 
boxes, and ill every instance the young have been 
duly hatched, and made their way without assistance 
out of the bag. In all these experiments, the young 
spiders joined in concert in making a web across their 
prison; a circumstance at variance with the assertion, 

* Bonnet, (Kuxres, vol. ii. p. 435. 

f De Geer, Mem. vol. vii. p, 194. Introd. i. p. 361. 






copied from Lister into most subsequent works on 
natural history, that this species never spins a web. 
They might not indeed have done so if they had been 
left at liberty*. 

A spider of the same species, which Bonnet kept 
under an inverted glass, at first was so exceedingly 
attached to her bag of eggs, that he could not beat 
her away from it after it was detached. “ By and 
bye,” he continues, “ I observed with surprise that 
she had abandoned and kept aloof from the vei^ bag 
which she had previously defended with so much cou- 
rage and address ; and I marvelled still more to see 
her run away from it when 1 placed it near her. I 
remarked at the same time that she had become less 
agile, seemingly in consequence of sickness. By 
more close observation, I discovered that several of 
the young ones were hatched, and their numbers 
increased by degrees, while all ran towards their 
mother and climbed upon her body. Some placed 
themselves on her back, some on her head, and some 
on her limbs, so that she was literally covered with 
them, and appeared to bend under the weight, not so 
much from being over-loaded, as from her feeble con- 
dition ; and indeed she soon afterwards died. The 
young spiders remained in a group upon the body 
of their mother, which they did not abandon for some 
time, and for the purpose, as I was half inclined 
(pardon the odious supposition) to think, of sucking 
the juices of her bodyf.” 

In order to prove whether a spider of this species 
could distinguish her own egg-bag from that of a 
stranger, we interchanged the bags of two individuals, 
which we had put under inverted wine-glasses ; but 
both manifested great uneasiness, and would not 
touch the strange bags. We then introd\iced one of 
the mothers into the glass containing her eggs and 

* J, lit f Bonnet; CEuvreS;Vol. ii. p. 440, 






the other spider ; but even then she did not take to 
them, which we attributed to the ])resence of the other, 
as all spiders nourish mutual enmity. Upon remov- 
ing the stranger, however, she shewed the same in- 
ditference to her efij’^s as before, and we concluded, 
that, after having* lost sitrht of them for a short time, 
she was no lono’cr able to recognize them*. 

A more e\traordinai*y method of hatching; e2:g:s 
occurs in several insects, thence termed ovo-vivipa- 
rous, which retain the eg;g;s within their bodies till they 
arc hatched ; and in this way they appear, like larg’er 
animals, to produce young; instead of eg’g^s. We do 
not here allude to the cocheiiille insects formerly men- 
tioned ; for though these cover their eo-g;s with their 
bodies, it is after they are laid and imbeclded in g*os- 
samer. Neither can these sing;ular insects be properly 
said to sit upon their eg*gs, inasmuch as the mother 
always dies when she has finished laying’. 

The guffer (Blenuivs ovo-viviparus, Lacepede), 
a British sea-fish, common under stones at low-water 
anark, affords an instance of this singular mode of the 
eggs being hatched in the body of the mother; and it 
is remarkable that when the young are ready to 
a])pear, she leaves her usual haunts on the coast, and 
goes farther out to sea, that they may be out of the 
reach of their natural enemies f. Our common viper 
(^Coluber ben/s, Linn.) is also ovo-viviparous, as arc 
several other reptiles ; though it is an exception to the 
general rule in this class. We caught a female of the 
nimble lizard (Lacerta agilis^ Linn.) on a heath 
near Sorn, Ayrshire, in July, and kept it for some time 
under a glass, where it produced six young ones ; but 
in couseipience of improper food, or ol‘ confinement, 
they all soon died J. This lizard is said to be some- 
times oviparous. The observations also of the elder 


* J.R. 


f LacepCde; Poissons, ii, p. 497. 


+ J.R. 





naturalists with respect to the scorpion’s being ovo- 
viviparous, have been recently verified by Leon 
Dufour^, a living French naturalist, distinguished for 
acuteness and accuracy. 

In the case of insects, it was first discovered by 
Redi, the father of experimental entomology, that, 
though the greater number of flies lay eggs, some 
also bring forth their young alive ; and he was thence 
led to put the question, whether such flies, under dif- 
ferent circumstances of temperature, do not sometimes 
produce young, and at other times deposit eggsf. 
He might as well, says Rt^aumur, have asked whe- 
ther, in certain circumstances, a hen, instead of laying 
eggs, should bring forth chickens. The fact, on the con- 
trary, has been ascertained by Reaumur, and recently 
confirmed by DufourJ, that the ovo- viviparous insects 
are furnished with an abdominal pouch, in which the 
eggs arc deposited by the mother previous to their 
being hatched. In this respect they afford a striking 
analogy with the kangaroo, the opossum, and other 
marsupial quadriqieds, which are furnished with a 
similar pouch for protecting their young in the first 
stage of their existence. One of our most common 
flies exemjilifies this. 

It may not have occurred to many of our readers 
that there are more sorts than one of the large flies 
usually ca. ed blow-flies and flesh flies. One of these, 
distinguisheci by its brilliant shining green colour and 
black legs {Musca CcRmr, Linn.), we have adverted 
to§ in recounting the experiments of Redi; another, 
frequently called the blue-bottle {Musca vomilona, 
Linn.), is easily distinguished by the abdomen being 
of a shining blue, the shoulders black, and the forehead 
fox -coloured. The insect, however, to which we wish to 
call attention at present, though nearly the size of the 

* Nouv. Diet. d’ Hist. Nat., xxx.426. 

f Redi, Esperienze intorno alia Gen.degf Insetti, 4to. 16G8. 

J Annales des Sciences Naturelles. § Page 3. 






blue-bottle, rather longer and more slender, and black, 
with lighter stripes on the shoulders, is not blue in the 
abdomen, but greyish black, and all over chequered 
with squares of' a lighter colour. This chequered blow- 
fly (^Sarcophapra enniaria, Meigp.n) does not even 
belong to the same genus as the preceding, and differs 
from it in the remarkable circumstance of hatching 
its eggs in an abdominal pouch, and instead of eggs 
depositing maggots upon dead carcasses. The eggs 
of all the flesh flies are in sultry weather hatched with 
great rapidity ; but in the case of the chequered blow-fly, 
nature has provided the means of still more rapid de- 
struction for removing the offensive parts of carcasses. 
The arrangement of the numerous minute larvce in 
the pouch is very remarkable, and resembles the coil 
of a watch-spring, or a roll of ribbon. Reaumur 
had the patience and perseverance to uncoil this mul- 
titudinous assemblage of flies in embryo, and found it 
about two inches and a half in length, though the 
body of the mother-fly herself was only about one- 



A, the chequered Llow-fly. B, the abdomen of the cliequered 
blow fly, opeiJi-d and magtulied, thewing ihecoil of young larvae. 
C, the coil of larvse partly unwound. 





third of an inch, and he computed that there were 
about 20,000 younj^ in the coil When this extra- 
ordinary fecundity is considered, wc need not wonder 
at the countless swarms which appear as if by magic 
upon a joint of meal during hot weather. 

Like most female insects, the mother-fly dies in a 
few days after giving birth U» her numerous brood ; 
but, unlike the oviparous flies, she seems to take a 
considerable lime to deposit the whole. It would be 
impossible indeed for her pouch to contain the larvae 
if they were all hatched at the same time ; and there- 
fore it has been so ordered by Providence that they 
should aiTive at maturity in succession. From the 
early death of the mother, Reaumur conjectured that 
they did not scniplc to eat their way through her 
bowels ; but he disproved his su|)position by a most 
decisive experiment. He took a fly which had already 
deposited a few larvie, and closed the natural opening 
of the pouch with sealing-wax, so that it was impos- 
sible any more could make their exit there. The mo- 
ther lived several days longer than she would have 
done, had she been left at liberty to produce her 
young ; but not one of them attempted to force a 
passage, after being shut up for ten days. 

Another large grey fly with brick-red eye^ (species 





A, pv('v blow fly, with th“ iibilonicn opened, shewing tlie 

yoiui;^ 111 n, brpaiiiiiJi; .iiipaiuiu.-, ol liie iiiaggol ol a 

large grey biuw-fly. 

lleaumuP; Mem. iv. 417. 






not ascertained) was discovered by Reaumur to be 
ovo-viviparous ; but the embiyo flies were not ar- 
ranc^ed in the pouch in the same spiral form as the 
preceding, but longitudinally. These did not appear 
to be quite so numerous ; and they had a peculiar 
breathing apparatus, which, when shut, as it could be 
at pleasure, appeared in the form of a crown. 

Amongst several other ovo-viviparous flies discovered 
by Reaumur, there was a very minute tipulidan gnat 
(species not ascertained) with a jet-black body, white 
wings, and beaded antennae, not larger than the head 
of an ordinary pin, which was bred in great numbers 
from some cows’ dung put into one of his nurse-boxes 
for another purpose. He justly remarks upon this 
circumstance, that “ the minute and the grand are 
nothing, or rather are the same, to the Author of 
nature.’* 

The numerous genus presents the singular 

anomaly of producing eggs in the autumn and living 
young during summer, and, as Curtis tells us, even 
during winter in green-houses. De Geer, however, 
ascertained that it was not the sameindiridual a])hides 
which at one season produced young and at another 
eggs, but d iff (Tent generations''^. By a series of very 
careful and troublesome experiments Bonnet also 
ascertained the curious fact, that in three months nine 
genenitions of these insects may be produced in suc- 
cession, though the males be rigorously excluded from 
the nurse-boxes where the females are isolated. In 
fact all the aphides produced in spring from the eggs 
laid in autumn appear to be females; and no males are 
produced till the end of summer, a short time before 
the eggs are deposited for winter. Among both males 
and females are some with and some without wings, — 
the nature of which distinction does not appear to be 
yet ascertained. 

* De Geer, Mem. des Inscctes, iii, 70. 






Bonnet, however, whose opinion is entitled to 
considerable authority, seems to think that the eggs of 
aphides which are destined to survive the winter are 
very different from other eggs; and he sup])oses that the 
insect, in a state nearly perfect, quits the body of its 
mother in that covering which shelters it from the cold 
in winter, and that it is not, as other germs are in the 
egg, surrounded by food, by means of which it is de- 
veloped and supported. It is nothing more, he con- 
jectures, than an asvlnin of which the aphides ap- 
pearing at another season have no need ; and it is for 
tliis reason that some are produced naked and others 
enveloped in a covering. If this be correct, the mo- 
thers are not then truly oviparous, e\en in autumn, 
when they deposit these pseudo-eggs ; since their young 
are almost as perfect as they e\er will be, in the asy- 
lum in which they are naturally placed at birth. It 
was in vain that Bonnet endeavoured to ])rcserve 
eggs of this sort in his chamber till spring, in conse- 
quence, he imagines, of the want of a certain degree of 
moisture which tiiey would have had out of doors. We 
have been more successful, through the precaution of 
not taking the eggs from their native tree till Febru- 
ary, and in 1830 we had a brood of several hundreds 
produced of the oak aphis {Aphin Qiicrcvs) 

The failure on the part of Bonnet leads us to re- 
mark, with the younger Huber, that ants are more 
skilful in this respect than naturalists, and anxiously 
nurse, during winter, the eggs of aphides, which they 
collect with great care in the autumn. The interest- 
ing naiTative of the discovery of this we shall give in 
Huber’s own words. 

“ One day in November,” says he, “ anxious to 
know if the yellow ants {Formica flava) began to 
bury themselves in their subteiTanean chambers, I de- 
stroyed, with care, one of their habitations, story by 

J.R. 



 


story. I had not advanced far in this attempt, when 
I discovered an apartment containing an assemblage 
of little eggs, which were for the most part of the 
colour of ebony. Several ants surrounded and ap- 
peared to take great care of them, and endeavoured, 
as quickly as possible, to convey them from my sight. 

I seized upon this chamber, its inhabitants, and the 
treasure it contained. 

“ The ants did not abandon these eggs to make 
their escape ; a stronger instinct retained them : they 
hastened to conceal them under the small dwelling 
which I held in my hand, and when 1 reached home, 

I drew them from it, to observe them more attentively. 
Viewed with a microscope, they appeared nearly of 
the form of ants’ eggs, but their colour was entirely 
dilFerent ; the greater part were black ; others were of 
a cloudy yellow. I found them in several ant-hills, 
and obtained them of different degrees in shade ; they 
were not all black and yellow ; some were brown, of a 
slight and also of a brilliant red and white ; others 
were of a colour less distinct, as straw colour, greyish, 
and I remarked that they were not the same colour at 
both extremities. 

“ To observ e them more closely, I placed them in the 
corner of a box faced with glass ; they were collected 
in a heap like the eggs of ants; their guardians seemed 
to value them highly; after having visited them, they 
placed one part in the earth, but I witnessed the at- 
tention they bestowed upon the rest ; they approached 
them, slightly separating their mandibles ; passed their 
tongue between each, extended them, then walked al- 
ternately over them, depositing, 1 believe, a liquid 
substance as they proceeded. They appeared to treat 
them exactly as if they were eggs of their own 
species ; they touched them with their antennae, and 
frequently carried them in their mouths ; they did not 
quit these eggs a single instant ; they took them 





up, turned them, and after having surveyed them 
with affectionate regard, conveyed them with extreme 
tenderness to the little chamber of earth I had placed 
at their disposal. They were not, however, the eggs 
of ants ; we know that these are extremely white, be- 
coming transparent as they increase in age, but never 
acquire a colour essentially different. 1 was, tor a 
long time, unacquainted with the origin of those of 
which 1 have just spoken, and by chance discovered 
they contained little aphides ; but it was not these in- 
dividual eggs 1 saw them quit ; it was other eggs 
which were a little larger, found in the nests of yellow 
ants, and of a particular species. On opening an ant- 
hill, I discovered several chambers containing a great 
number of brown eggs, of which the ants were ex- 
tremely jealous, carrying them with the utmost expe- 
dition to the bottom of the nest, dis])iitiiig and con- 
tending for them with a zeal which left me no doubt 
of the strong attachment with which they regard 
them. 

“ Desirous of conciliating their interests, as well as 
my own, I took the ants and their treasure, and placed 
them in such a manner that J might easily observe 
them. These eggs were never abandoned. The ants 
took the same care of them as the limner. The fol- 
lowing day 1 saw one of these eggs open, and an 
aphis fully formed, having a large trunk, quit it. I 
knew it to be a puceron of the oak : the others were 
disclosed a few da^s after, and the greater number in 
my presence. They set iinmediaieiy about sucking* 
the juice from some branches of the tree 1 gave them, 
and the ants now found, within their reach, a recom- 
pense for their care and attention. The ant-hill whence 
these eggs had been taken was situated at the foot of 
an oak, which readily accounts lor their existence in 
that place. I discovered them in the spring ; the pu- 
cerons which quitted them were very large for insects 






just born, but they had not yet obtained their full 
size^.** 

It is not, however, the aphides themselves who select 
the siiug^ winter retreat of an ant-hill, or who know 
how to secure the careful nursing* of the ants. All 
this is the sole concern of the latter, to secure for them- 
selves a supply of the honey-dew, as it is erroneously 
called, secreted by the aphides in spring. The ants, 
it may be proper to remark, take similar care of their 
own eggs (as well as of their cocoons, popularly sup- 
posed to be their eggs), as was remarked by Sir E. 
King, in the reign of Charles II. lie informs us that 
they diligently gather together in a heap their true 
eggs, which are small and white like the granules of 
lump sugar, and upon these eggs they lie in multi- 
tudes, “ I suppose,” says Derham, “ by way of in- 
cubation t-” “ I have observed,” adds Sir E. King, 

“ in summer, that in the morning they bring up those 
of their young called ant-eggs (rocoo/is) towards the 
loj) of the bank, so that you may, from ten o’clock till 
five or six in the afternoon, find them near the top,^ — 
for the most part on the south side. But towards 
seven or eight at night, if it be cool, or likely to rain, 
yon may dig a loot deep before you can find themj.” 

An interesting family of two-winged flies {Hip- 
pohoscidfF, Leach) resemble the aphides in some 
points of their economy, though in others they are 
singularly peculiar. Reaumur discovered, what has 
been recently confirmed by Dufour and others, that 
the mothers not only hatch their eggs within the body, 
but retain them there till they are changed into chry- 
salides. Reaumur gives a lively narrative of his 
discov ery, and the solicitude of his serv ants to find him 
female flies ready to dej)Osit what he at first took for 

* M. P. Huber on Ants, p. 245. 
f Derham, Phys. Theol. ii. 207. llth ed, 

$ Phil. Trans. No. xxiii. 






e^^s. He was so anxious to hatch those supposed 
ec^jrs that he carried them in his pocket by day and 
took them to bed with him at ni2:ht, (as Bonnet 
afterwards did with the eggs of a])hides,) for several 
weeks successively ; but instead of grubs, as he had 
expected, perfect flies were evolved exactly similar to 
their parents. He calls them spider flies, from their 
resemblance to spiders ; and in some parts of France 
the species which infests horses (Hippohosca equina) 
is called the Spaniard or Breton : in England it is 
too well known under the name of the Ibrest fly. 



Spuk'r flies ( IhppvbosridcF, J.vach, ) 

We have the more wdllingly introduced this sub- 
ject here, that another fly {Craio'ina Hlrundinis^ 
Olfeus), of the same family, has the instinct to de- 
posit its egg-like cocoons in the warm feathery nest of 
swallows, where they have all the necessary heat 
which Reaumur, in his experiments, was so careful 
to maintain. In return for the warmth which the 
young has thus received, the j)eifect fly, dining its 
brief existence, lives by sucking the lilood of the swal- 
lows, as the one first mentioned sucks the blood of 
horses, horned cattle, and, it is also said, of man. 






The effect of heat upon the of insects has been 
carried much farther than in the experiments just 
alluded to of Reaumur and Bonnet Spallanzani was 
desirous of ascertaiiiino* what dei^ree of heat the e^gs 
of insects and other animals, as well as the seeds of 
plants, would bear when compared with their larvae; 
and he found that below 93*^ Fahr. silk-worms did 
not appear alfccted, but at 95°, and still more at 97°, 
they became restless, while at 99° they ceased to move, 
and all died at 108° The eg’pcs of these, on the 
other hand, long; resisted the influence of heat. At 
80° they were the most productive ; at 99° many still 
appeared, but with considerable diminution, and as 
the heat was increased their fertility decreased, till at 
144° not one was fertile. 'J'he egc^s and caterpillars 
of the elm butterfly (Variesfta po/ychloros?) j)crfectly 
corresponded with those of the silk-worm. In the case 
of the eg^gs of the blow-fly {Mu sea vomitoria) a great 
many produced maggots at 124° ; but at 135° and 
138° very few, and all were sterile at 140° The 
mag’gots })roduced from these eggs became restless at 
88°, and endeavoured to esca})e, and as this heat was 
increased they became i)roportionably more agitated 
till it arose to 108°, when they all perished. Full- 
grown maggots of the same kind all died at 108°; 
but when changed into flies they died when the heat 
was so low as 99°; though their pupje were produc- 
tive at 104° and 100^ but not at 1 1 l°t. 

If these experiments may, as we believe they may, 
be relied on, we have some reason to doubt that “ the 
eggs of the musca vomitoria^ our common blow-fly, 
are oiten,” as Dr. (lood affirms, “ deposited in the 
heat of summer u]K)n putrescent meat, and broiled 
with such meat over a gridiron in the form of steaks, in 
a heat not merely of' 212°, but of' three or four times 
212° ; and yet, instead of being hereby destroyed, we 

See ]n?ect Arcliilccture, p.‘24. 
t Spullanzani, Tracts by Dalyell, vol. i. p.35. 





sometimes find them quickened by this very exposure 
into their larva or gnib state It would have been 
well if some more accurate authority had been given for 
so miraculous a fact than this general staierrient : the 
appearance of maggots on broiled meat, from which the 
inference is apparently made, seems rather to indicate 
that eggs, or more probably ovo-viviparous larva% had 
been deposited there, not before^ but after the broiling. 

One certain result of all such experiments is, that 
eggs are more capable of withstanding heat than the 
animals producing them; and from similar experi- 
ments the same law appears to hold with the seeds 
of plants, which also withstand more heat than 
eggs. Water increases the destructive influence of 
heat. The causes upon which these curious facts 
depend do not ap])ear to be well understood. It is 
certain, however, tljat the life of an animal in the egg 
is feeble, or at least lethargic, in comparison with that 
of the animal produced; and that animals, when in a 
state of very feeble animation, resist external inju- 
ries with more impunity than when very vivacious. 
We once saw a very delicate young girl, emaciated 
with scrofula, have her leg amputated without even 
heaving a sigh; while a robust Irish labourer, who 
underwent the same operation immediately after her, 
roared like a bull. ' 

Experiments prove that the fluids of eggs, and con- 
sequently of their germs, are more abundant than in 
vegetable seeds ; and this excess of fluid may lend to 
destroy the germ more readily, from heat expanding 
the fluids, and thus putting them in motion : for then 
they must strike violently against the tender parts of the 
germs, and rupture and destroy them. Hence seeds 
exposed to heat are killed at lower degrees in water, 
than if dry, in the same way as ice will melt sooner 
in warm water than in air of equal temperature f- 

* Good’s Book of Nature, vol. i. p. 221. 1st edit, 
t Spallanzani, Tracts by Dalyell, vol. i. p. 43. 






In the practical manac^emeiit of the e^^s of the silk- 
worm Count Dandolo directs the temperature of the 
stove-room to be 64° when they are first put in. 
“ The third day the temperature should be raised to 
66° ; the fourth day to 6S° ; the fifth day to 7 i° ; the 
sixth day to 73°; the seventh day to 75°; the 
eighth day to 77°; the ninth day to 80°; the tenth, 
eleventh, and twelfth days to 82° When the tempe- 
rature of the sto\ e-room is raised to 75°, it is advan- 
tageous to have two dishes, in which water may be 
poured, so as to offer a surface of nearly four inches 
diameter. In four days there will iiave taken place 
an evaporation of nearly twelve ounces of water; the 
vapour, which rises very slowly, moderates the dry- 
ness which might occur in the stove-house, particu- 
larly during a northerly wind : very dry air is not 
favourable to the development of the silk-worm*.’^ 
Damp or stagnant air, or sudden changes of tempera- 
ture, either high or low, are exceedingly injurious to 
the hatching of eggs. 

From some very curious experiments of Miche- 
lotti, it appears that exposure to light is by no means 
favourable to the hatching of eggs. This ingenious 
naturalist inclosed a number of eggs in glass vessels, 
admitting the light to one series and excluding it 
from another, similar in every other particular. The 
result was, that few or none of the eggs exposed to 
light were hatched, while those in tiie dark were 
almost all fertile, lie arrived at the same results in 
his experiments upon vegetable seeds t* Kirby and 
Spence justly remark, that these curious facts may 
account for so many insects fastening their eggs to the 
under sides of leaves, and may be the final cause of 
the opaque horny texture of those exposed in full day J. 

Among the singular circumstances in which insects 
differ from the larger animals, we may reckon that 

'’Count Dandolo, on Silk-Worms, Eng. trans., p. 55. 

f Philosophical Mag. vol. ix. p. 244. J Introduc. iii. p. 77. 





of the echo’s of some increasinir in size durinp;* the pro- 
cess of hatching. The facta^jpears to have first been 
noticed by the celebrated Vallisnieri in his observa- 
tions on saw flies {Tenthredinidce^ Leach) Other 
instances were subsequently discovered by Reau- 
mur, De Geer, Derham, Rosel, and the youno;er 
Huber. “ It oua:ht not,” says Reaumur, speakino* of 
gall flies {(hjnipida^, Westwood), “ to be passed in 
silence, that the egg which I found in the gall appeared 
to me considerably larger than the eggs of the same 
species when they proceed from the body of the fly, 
or even when they are taken from the mother fly 
near the time of their being laid. The whole of 
those I look from the mother flies which 1 killed were 



Generation of a water-inite (^Ih/dravhna nhstergens'). 
a a, the water scorpion, iii whose body the mite lixes her egCT'^- 
h b, a inapiitied view of one ol it.s claws, c, a tooth lihe process 
for restraining; tlie motion of the joint, rf, the wafer- mite, c, a 
greatly iiiagnitied view of one of its eggs, f, the hook by winch 
It IS inserted into the body of the scorpion. 

See Insect Architecture, pp. 157-8. 

 


remarkably small ; and I thence inferred that the e^c^ 
would have, and indeed had, increased in the gallV* 

Rosel made a similar observation on the red eggs 
of a water-mite {Hydrachna absiergei^s) ; and he was 
induced to suppose (justly, as we think) that, as they 
are deposited upon the bodies of water-scorpions 
{Nepidfp, J^EACii), they derive their means of in- 
crease from thcmt- Geer remarked that the 
water-scorpions, when much inlested with them, be- 
came ^’ra(lually weakened as the ec^gs increased in 
size 

Huber the youno-cr, in the course of his experi- 
ments, discovered tliat the ec:p:s of ants, from being 
small and o})acjue, became comparatively large and 
transparent. “To be convinced of the truth of this,’’ 
he says, “ I viewed those eggs with the microscope. 
I also measured them, and having sejiarated them 
from each other, found the longest to be those only 
in which the grubs were hatched in my presence. 
If 1 removed them from the workers, belbre they 
attained their lull length and transparency, they 
dried up, and the grubs never quitted them.” 
Huber is inclined to attribute this remarkable in- 
crease and transparency to the humidity imparted to 
them by the working ants who so assiduously pass 
them through their mouths. “ For,’' he adds, “if they 
be not surrounded with a liquid, or jireserved from the 
influence of the external air, their pellicle, moistened 
every instant by the workers, may preserve a certain 
degree of siqipleness and expansibility, according 
to the development of the included grub§.” 

The most minute observations, however, of this 
kind, which have hitherto been jiiiblished, were made 

* Reaumur, Mem. vol. iii. p. 479. 
f Kosel, InseclctJ. vol. iii. p. 152. 

X De Geer, Mern. des In^ectcs, vol. vii. p. 145. 

§ M. P, Huber on Ants, p, 72, 






by Heroldt on the egf?s of the garden spider (Epeira 
diadema), to which we formerly alluded. He divides 
the process of hatching into twelve periods, according 
to the proo;ress of development. This ])roo;ress is not 
measured by time, as has been done in experimenting 
on the of birds. The «erm, or cicatricula, which 
is composed of minute «Tanules, when placeil in a 
due temperature, begins to expand towards the extre- 
mity of the till it takes the form of a comet, 

whose nucleus is the centre of the sferm, and whose 
tail consists of transparent globules. On continuing 
to expand, or rather to dis])erse its granules, they 
appear to be decom]M)sed into imperceptible molecules, 
producing a sort of translucent cloud, through which 
the globules of the jolk may be distinguished. The 
place which the germ previously occu})ied appears as 
a single transjDarent point. The cloudy matter » 
next accumulates round the centre of the germ, 
assumes a pearly aspect, and becomes solid and 
opacpie. This is the rudiment of the embryo sjfider, 
the outline of whose head and body becomes ap])a- 
rent, occupying a little more than a fourth of the egg. 
At first this embryo a])pears homogeneous, but by and 
bye four little archlets arc seen, which are the rudi- 
ments of the legs, and at the same time the outlines 
of the mandibles are formed. The whole seems to 
derive nourishment from the yolk, in which it is rooted 
as a parasite ])lanl u])on a tree. When the embryo 
spider is near its exclusion, it completely fills the interior 
of the egg, the shell of which moulds itself closely 
around the body, and it looks like the n)m])hof a 
beetle^. When suniciently developed, it makes a rent 
in the shell, as was first observed by De Geer, oppo- 
site the breast, through which it pushes its head, and 
successively disengages its bodv ; but the shell still 
envelopes the legs and feet, and it is not without a 
* Hejoldt, lixercit. de Gcner. Aranearuin in 0\o. 

 


^reat deal of trouble, by alternately stretchins^ out and 
contractiiis^ them, that it succeeds in rending this, and 
sets itsell’at liberty*. Even then the younp; spider can 
neither spin a web nor catch prey ; for it is still en- 
veloped in an extremely delicate membrane, which it 
docs not moult unless the weather is favourable and 

finef. 



Iliitching: of tho of Ihf t[fiY(\cn $pn]er (Epcira diadema), rt, 
natunil size, h, luaj^nilied, tlie cicatruMila (a white s])()t ) in the 
front, C, till' tterin eiilarped ; n, the head, and hy the body ot the 
embryo, d, the embryo spider ready to east ofl’ its first skin. 

The hitter circumstance will enable us to explain 
some experiments made by Eedi, who kept spiders 
newly hatched for many months without food In the 
experiments made by us upon thee«;^s of the wolf spider 
{Lycosa sarcata), we more than once kept the >oung 
in boxes, wlicre they were foro'otten and without food ; 
and we uniformly linuid that they remained lively and 
well so lon«; as they did not cast their embr)o skin; 
but when they did moult, they could not long* survive 
the want of sustenance §. 

In the cg’gs of moths, the embryo, previous to ex- 
clusion, may be seen throug’h the shell, snugly coiled 

4: De Geer, Mem. Aii., p. I'Jti. 
f Diet. Ciassique d’Hisl. Nat. xii. 141. 

J Kedi, Esperienze, 99. J. R. 







up in a ririp:, as is distinctly shewn in many of the 
beautiful and accurate figures of Sepp^. 



effg of llie privet liawlj moth { Sphtn.r Tjiqu^fri') wdgri\Redt 
shewing the inelosed embryo, b, ihe caterpillar, when grown. 

In the case of the eggs of birds, the chick, when 
fully developed, breaks the shell with its bill, the 
point of which is then furnished with a hard scale. This 
is evidently contrived by providential wisdom for this 
very jnnpose, lor it drops otl' in a few days after the 
chick is evcliided. It is probable that the larvje of 
many insects which are furnished with strong man- 
dibles gnaw their way through the egg-shell ; but we 
know that there are others which, lil\c the spider, 
rupture their envelope, since the edges ai)pear ragged 
and irregular. Otliers, again, seem to have an open- 
ing jirovided for them, in a door, which only requires 
them to push it open. This is the case with the louse 
(^Pcdiculus hintianiis)^ and witli the bird-louse 
(iV2>7??7/.s), found on the neck feathers of the golden 
pheasant. A still more ingenious contrivance was 
discovered by the Rev. R. Slieppard, in the egg of a 
field bug [Ptiitaiomay Lath.), which is not only fur- 

Der Wonderen Gods, jmssim. 



Doors in oiri;:'' for tho esofipo of fli^* larvie. 
a, ogp: of I li'" I'lUso { I‘t‘fliculus /itniinuus). 6, of llip jicntii- 
tonri c, blu'll of a inoth'b louiul upon the dou-berry, all inag- 
nwiod. 

nishcd with a convex lid, but with a lc\er of a horny 
texture, and in the form of a cross-])ow, for opening it, 
the handle beiiri^ fixed to the lower ])art of the by a 
membrane, and the bow part to the lid''^. On the 
leaf of a dew-l)erry (Rubi/s cfcsws) we found a 
beautifully ribbed eg'^ of some moth, which, having 
been brought into oiir study in January, 1830, was 
hatclied by the Avarnith, aiid exhibited an openinj^ 
similar to the elastic cocoon of the emperor-moth ; each 
of the ribs ha\in^ exj)anded to allow of the escape of 
the caterpillar. 

The ])eriod at which the eg;g:s of insects are hatched 
after deposition depends mainly upon temj)erature ; 
for by keeping them in an ice-house in summer, the 
hatching may be retarded f, as it may be hastened 
(witness the instance in the preceding paragraph) by 
heat in winter ; but there are many other circum- 
stances unknown to us \thich often hasten or retard 
the process. The eggs of the blow-fly {Muaca vomi- 
toria) are said to hatch within two hours J, while those 
of several moths, and numerous other insects, remain 
unhatched for six or nine months; perhaps, in some 
cases, even for one or more }ears It is worthy of re- 

Kirby and Spence, iii. 104. f Reaumur, Mem. 

1 Nouv. Diet. d'Hist. Nat. xii. 5G4. 






mark, however, that the periods of hatching corre- 
spond in a striking manner with the leafing of trees, 
and the appearance of other materials fitted for the food 
of the young. We observed a good example of this 
in the spring of 18r29. A lackey moth had deposited 
during autumn a spiral ring of her eggs on the branch 
of a sweet-briar planted in a garden-pot out of doors. 
We removed this into our study during the winter. 
Here the warmth caused the tree to bud, and at the 
same time hatched the lackeys about a month sooner 
than those out of doors. Owing to the same cause, se- 
veral colonies of the caterpillars of the brown-tail moth 
revi\edfrom their tor[)idity, and came forth from their 
winter nests before the hawthorns were in leaf, a cir- 
cumstance which would not have happened to them 
out of doors Kirby and Spence give an instance 
precisely similar, of the eggs of an aphis found on 
the birch, and hatched in-doors a lull month before 
those in the open airf. 

It is a remarkable circumstance, long observed by 
collectors, that the male broods of insects appear 
earlier than the female broods ; and it would appear 
from the following fact, that there is a similar retarda- 
tion ill the haichiiig of female eggs. “ Upon the 
leaf of a jioplar tree were found three eggs of the 
puss moth {Ce.rura vinula)^ two of which were hatched 
about two weeks before the other. The first were 
males, the last a female. As they were on the 
same leaf, and presumed, therefore, to have been 
laid by the same parent, at the same time, the diller* 
ence of hatching could not have, arisen from ditlcreiice 
of weather, cxiiosure, Ac. X* In the case of the 
lackeys on the sweet-briar above-mentioned, some 
were hatched several days before others, but whether 
these were of ditferent sexes we did not ascertain. 

* J. R. f Kirby and Spence, Intr. ii. 434. 

I J. Rennie, in Mag. of Nat. Hist., \ol.i. p. 373. 





Structure of Caterpillars, Grubs, and Maggots. 

It is reported by Boerhaave, in his life of Swammer- 
dam, that when the Grand Duke of Tuscany was 
visiting the curiosities of Holland, in 1668, he found 
iiothine; more worthy of his admiration than the na- 
turalist’s account of the stmcture of caterpillars , — for 
Swammerdam, by the skilful manac^ement of instni- 
ments of wonderful delicacy and fineness, shewed 
the prince in what manner the future butterfly lies 
neatly folded up in the caterpillar, like a flower in 
the unexpanded bud. He was, indeed, so struck 
with this and other wonders of the insect world, dis- 
closed to him by the ^reat naturalist, that he made 
him a princely offer to induce him to reside at his 
court; but Swammerdam, from feelings t)f indepen- 
dence, modestly declined to accept it, preferrinp^ to 
continue his deliji'htful studies at home. The facts 
which thus struck the Duke with admiration, we shall 
now endeavour, with the aid of Swammerdam, to 
trace. But, before we proceed, it may not be out of 
place to advert to some very novel views which have 

* It may be proper to repeat here, that an insect, when hatched 
from the eg-g, is called by naturalists larva; and in popular lan- 
guage, a caterpillar or grub^ if furnished with feet, and a maggoty 
wormy or gentle, if without feet. 






been recently started by continental naturalists, who 
maintain that vegetables are actually converted into 
animals, and these ac^ain into vec^etables. 

It must be obvious, we think, from the details we 
have already ^iven, that the doctrine of trammuia- 
</o7i, so far as regards insects, is equally absurd and 
impossible with the pretended alchemical transmutation 
of lead and other inferior metals into gold and silver; 
whicli doctrine was, indeed, supported upon the sup- 
posed fact of insects being thus tmnsmuted But vi- 
sionary as either of these may appear, they have both 
been supported by men of talent and distinguished re- 
putation. It does not, perhaps, at first sight seem more 
impossible, that water should be transmuted into 
diamonds, or brass into gold, than that an egg should 
disclose a chick or a cateqnllar, or that a caterpillar 
should change into a butterfly or a beetle ; but by 
adhering rigidly to facts, and rejecting as rigidly all 
fancies and analogies, how jdausible soever they may 
appear, we are certain that the latter changes are of 
common occurrence, whereas the former are contrary 
to all experience, and to the best experiments. We 
say the beat; because observations, if not experiments, 
have been made for the express purpose of proving 
such improbable transmutations. 

“ I have shewn to a great number of persons,*’ 
says Professor Agardh, “ the changeable crow-silk 
{Conferva mutabilis^ Roth ; Draparnaldia m. 
Bory St. V.) in its state of a plant, the 3d of August, 
change by the 5th into molecules endowed with loco- 
mobility, reunite by the 6th into simple articulations, 
and reconstituted by the 1 0th into the primitive form 
of the plant t-'* Prexious to this (in 1814) Professor 
Nees von Esenbeck, of Bonn, published similar obser- 

^ Sir Theodore Mayerne, Epist. Dedicat ad Theatrum Insect. 
JMoufielii. 

f Agurdh, Diss.deMetamorph.AIgarum. 1820. 





vations, in which he remarks, that “ as the phenomena 
in question appear to contradict certain principles 
admitted into the reign iiic^ systems, we often prefer 
rather to deny the conclusions of candid and ex- 
perienced observers, than to receive what has hitherto 
been regarded as untenable by generally admitted au- 
thority. In this situation are placed all observations 
upon the transition or metamorphosis of vegetable life 
(characterised by immobility) into animal life (cha- 
racterised by mobility) ; — the moment when a being, 
arrived at the period of its existence, continues itself, 
as it were, by a new creation, and the animated em- 
bryo developes itself into a motionless vegetable*.** 
Agardh, in his account of another allied family 
(^Ocillatorioi), has even given figures, first of the 
plant, and then of the animalcules into which its 
filaments are convertedt, which induced Bory St. 
Vincent to remark sarcastically, that “ all nature 
appears, to the Professor of Lund, to be nothing but 
conferva) travestied i-’* 

Passing over what has been published on this 
strange doctrine by Vaucher, Girod-Chantrans, 
Treviranus, Cams, and others, we shall only stop to 
mention the more recent observations of Francis 
Unger. Ihe plant he selected was the Conferva 
dilatata ^ of Roth. “ Within the space of one hour,** 
says he, “ I succeeded in tracing, not only the dimi- 
nution of vitality and death of the animalcules, but 
also the subsequent development of the dead animals 
into germinating plants, in such a manner as to 
establish the truth of the fact."’ He adds with great 
simplicity, “ 1 could scarcely believe my own eyes§.** 
Like Agardh, he has given figures of these miracu- 

? Quoted in Annales dcs Sciences Naturelles” for 1828. 

f Agardh, leones Als:. ined. i.lO. 

+ Did. (;las^ique d’HUt. Nat,x. 469. 

\ Annales des Sciences Nat., 1828. 





lous changes, which our readers may be curious to 
see. 



Supposed animal and vegetable metamorphoses. 


Since the only proof of tliese plants being trans- 
muted (as is alleged) into animals, appears to be 
their acquiring motion and, as linger says, 
“ swimming freely about;” we think we should be 
equally entitled to infer (hat camphor is animated 
because it moves spontaneously when thrown into 
water. This property iit camphor has not hitherto 
been satisfactorily explained; and it would undoubt- 
edly be better to leave the phenomena described by our 
advocates for transmutation likewise unexplained, 
than to leap at once to their startling conclusions. 
“ W’e might as well,” says Bory St, Vincent, 
“ astonish the world with the discovery of a fig- 
tree transmuted into a mulberry tree, because the 
Brovsfi 07 ietia, when young, has the leaves of the one, 
and when old of the other ; and by such a system of 
observing we shall end in looking upon the oak and 
the mistletoe as the same plant : the w and of Circe 
could not produce more astounding consequences 
? Nees von Esenbeck, 





than the microscope does in the hands of such 
observers^'.” 

It is apparently a branch of the same untenable 
theory, which maintains that the lliiid termed by 
Heroldt the blood of caterpillars is the only original 
portion of them, which, beinp^ endowed with a forma- 
tive power f, produces an envelope for itself of mucous 
net-work {nie mucosim), and this aG;ain, by means of 
a similar power, is successively transmuted into the 
caterpillar, the ])upa, and the perfect insect in some 
similar way, we suppose, to the formative power dis- 
played by water, when, during frost, it shoots into 
crystals of ice. But the framers of such theories seem 
to forp^et that living* * * § blood is a very different thing 
from inanimate water, and the growth and nutrition 
of animals from the chemical formation of crystals. 
Kirby and Si)ence very justly remark, that Hcroldfs 
formative power is only an apology for ignorance, and 
that his denying the existence of what he cannot trace, 
is no proof of Ids doctrine, but of his mistake in sup- 
posing the first appearance of the organs of the but- 
terfly in his microscope to be literally their first 
existence. To suppose the blood, we may also remark, 
endowed with the power of creating inse(!ts, gets rid 
of no difficulty and explains no phenomenon, while it 
is altogether a gratuitous assumi)tion, unproved 
and improbable. “ Admirable discovery,’^ exclaims 
Virey ; “ as if you should affirm that a stone falls 
because it falls§I'’ We think it is St. Pierre who 
remarks, that Nature seldom permits philosophers to 
peep to the bottom of her basket; and we have already 

* Diet. Class, d’ Hist. Nat. x. 4t)8. 

f The German term b “ Bildende Kraft,” i. e. P^is formatrix, 
or Nisus format IV us. 

:j: Heroldt, quoted by Kirby and Spence, iii. 83. 

§ Quoted by ^iby and Spence. 





recorded many instances, besides the one under con- 
sideration, of their strani^e mistakes in guessiiif^ at 
what they cannot fathom. Wc prefer folio winc^ 
Swammerdam, Reaumur, and Bonnet, in recording 
what can be actually seen on examining the structure 
of caterpillars. 

In a chapter of Swammerdam’s Book of Nature, 
quaintly headed “ An animal in an animal, or the 
butterfly hidden in the cater|)illar,” we find the fol- 
lowing details respeciing the caterpillar of the large 
cabbage butterfly (Pontia braaaicep). The egg of 
this insect is of a yellow colour, flask shaped, and 
marked with fifteen ribs, converging towards the 
smaller end, and extending a little beyond it. The 



Kg-g; of the large cabbage butterfly (^Pvntla brassiccB), magnified. 

caterpillar, but too well known from its ravages, has 
sixteen feet, a yellow line along the back, and another 
on each side, the rest of the body being bluish grey, 
spotted with black; and the whole surface sprinkled 
with thin, short, whitish hairs*. 

“ In order,” continues Swammerdam, “ to discover 
plainly that a butterfly is inclosed and hidden in the 

* Hay, Cat. Cantab., quoted by Swammerdam. See fig. a, 
page G2. 




sliin of this caterpillar, the follovvinj^ operation must 
be used. One must kill a full-grown caterpillar, tie a 
thread to its body, and dip it for a minute or two into 
boiling water. The outer skin will, after this, easily 
separate, because the fluids, between the two skins, 
are by this means rarefied and dilated, and therefore 
they break and detach both the vessels and the fibres 
wherewith they were united together. By this means 
the outer skin of the caterpillar, being separated, may 
be easily drawn off i'rom the butterfly which is contained 
and folded up in it. This done, it is clearly and dis- 
tinctly seen, that, within this skin of the caterpillar, a 
perfect and real butterfly was hidden, and therefore 
the skin of the caterpillar must be considered only as 
an outer garment, containing in it parts belonging to 
the nature of a butterfly, which have grown under its 
defence by slow degrees, in like manner as other sen- 
sitive bodies increase by accretion. 

“ But as these limbs of the butterfly which lie under 
the skill of the caterpillar cannot, without great diffi- 
culty, be discovered in the full-grown caterpillar, unless 
by a person accustomed to such experiments, — because 
they are then very soft, tender, and small, and are 
moreover complicated or folded together, and inclosed 
in some membranaceous coverings, — it is, therefore, 
necessary to defer the ojieration just now proposed, 
until the several parts of the butterfly become some- 
what more conspicuous than at first, and are more 
increased and .swelled under the skin by the force of 
the intruded blood and a(|ueous humour. This is 
known to be the case when the caterjiillar ceases to eat, 
and its skin on each side of the thorax, near under the 
head, is then observed to be more and more elevated 
by the increasing and swelling limbs, and shews the 
?ippearance of two pairs of prominent tubercles 
* Swammerdam, Book of Nature, ii. 2G. 






By similar dissections, Malpighi both actually dis- 
covered the moth in the body ol‘ a silk worm, and also 
the eggs of it and Reaumur made a similar disco- 
very in the caterpillar of the gypsey moth {Hypogymna 
dispar) t- 



Female of the perfe<;t eabhufre butterfly irontia brassic(»). 

In order to harden tlic parts of the inci})ient butterfly 
that are soft, Swammerdam immersed the caterpillar 
in a phial filled with equal parts of vinegar and spirit 
of wine for sixteen hours, when he found it would 

* Malpighi de Bombyce, 29. f Ktaumur, Mem. i. 359. 




better bear handling. It may be necessary to remark, 
that though all the parts of the butterfly are in this 
mariner discoverable in the caterpillar, they are only 
in the bud, if we may use the expression, and appear to 
be out of proportion from being so closely folded up and 
unexpanded. The whole, indeed, bears so much ana- 
logy to the embryo of a plant in the seed, or the rudi- 











a, greatly magnified view of a section of the bud of the labur- 
num. It exhibits the nascent flowers, arranged in regular order, 
previously to their bursting into perfect existence, h, section of 
a bean seed, c, seed-leaves, root, and the first true leaf of the 
beech. 





merits of a leaf or of a flower in the bud» that Swam- 
merdam has ^iven fi genres of the parallel developments 
of larvfE and of a carnation. His selection of this 
flower was not perhaps the most happy ; but our readers 
may readily obtain examples by carefully dividing^ the 
unexpanded buds of the rose, the lilac, the horse- 
chesiiut, the American walnut, or beans, and other 
lar 2 :e seeds after they have been planted in moist 
earth, but not left long’ enough to shoot into a plant. 
The preceding figures will illustrate this better than 
description. Dr. Drew proved in this manner that 
flowers which blow in spring are formed in the pre- 
ceding year ^ ; and Du Hamel, on dissecting, in 
January, the bud of a pear-tree, found under an 
envelope of about thirty leaf scales eight or ten 
embryo flowers resembling rose-buds bestudded with 
hairs f. 

The butterfly and the flower-bud, however, differ re- 
markably in the manner in which they are nourished, — 
the latter receiving sap from the enveloping leaf scales, 
the former taking food into the stomach through the 
mouth of the caterpillar. The stomach, indeed, of the 
inclosed butterfly is so capacious, that it fills the 
greater portion of its body ; and requires the caterpillar 
to occupy almost its whole time in eating in order to 
satisfy its cravings. When the food is digested in the 
stomach of the insect, it passes, as in the larger animals, 
into the small intestines I ; but it is not, as in them, 
collected by innumerable little vessels which aftenvards 
run into one, (as brooks unite to form a river,) and go 
to the lungs to be exposed to the air, supplied by 
breathing, in order to be there oxygenated and formed 
into red blood. Insects, on the contrary, do not 

^ Grew. Phys. Veg., ii. fiO. 
f Du Hamel, Physique de^' Arbres, iii., 1. 

J See Insect Architecture,” p. 309, D, D.; and this vol. p. 198. 

 

breathe by the mouth, and are not furnished with 
lunges ; for though good air is no less essential to their 
nutrition and existence, it is brought to act on the di- 
gested food in a different manner. In caterpillars, and 
in most perfect insects, the air is respired by breath- 
ing-tubes — usually eighteen in number — placed along 
the sides *, the mouths *of which may be seen moving, 
as the air passes in and out, from ten to thirty times 
in a minute. When these are covered with oil, or any 
other matter preventing the entrance of the air, the 
insect, being unable to breathe, is suffocated and dies, 
as was observed two thousand years ago by Aristotle t . 
The breathing-tubes all run into what may be called a 
wind-pipe, one of which lies along each side of the 
insect; and these two wind-pipes send off' innumerable 
small branches with air to the vessels containing the 
digested food, supplying it with oxygen for the pur- 
poses of nourishment. A fluid is thus ])re})ared ana- 
logous to the blood of the larger animals, and stored 
up in a large dorsal vessel ; but this is not at all like 
a heart, for though it has been observed to beat, its 
motions do not seem to be constant or regular, and 
no blood-vessels go off from it. The fluid analogous 
to blood may perhaps ])ass through this singular reser- 
voir, as water does through blotting pa])cr ; but as 
yet this process has not been accurately in\ estigated. 
A more distinct notion, however, of the process of 
insect breathing may be obtained from Swammer- 
dam’s sketch of the interior of the water-grub of a 
May-fly {Ephemera). 

It is further conjectured that the portion of the 
blood not immediately wanted for nourishing the or- 
gans already formed, goes to form a mass of thickish 
mucilage, contained in floating membranes of a white. 


Insect Archi. p. 308, f Aristotle, Hist. Animal., viii. 27. 










Dissection of the water pjrnh of a May fly (Ephemera). The 
back is laid open, and the nerves, intestines, and respiratory 
apparatus exhibited, a a a n a a. mx clusters of short tubes, 
opening on both sides, through which the creat re breathes: the 
air contained in the water, passing tlirough hese, enters two 
wind-pipes, h b b b, nittning from head to t il, and circulates 
through every part of the body. The eight fin and a portion of 
the tail bristle ^ have been omitted, to give tin of the figure 
on a larger scale. The central white lines are .he nerves. 


 


yellow, or p^reen colour, and apparently analogous to 
fat in the larger animals This furnishes, as is fur- 
ther supposed, a store of nutriment for promoting 
the growth of the butterfly f. 

This brief sketch will serve to give the reader a tole- 
rable notion of the internal structure of caterpillars, 
and the manner in which their food is elaborated into 
nutriment ; but when we know that Lyonnet wrote a 
large quarto volume on the structure of a single cater- 
pillar, and that Malpighi, lleroldt, Ramdohr, Spren- 
gel, and Marcel de Serres, are little less voluminous, 
it will be understood that we give it merely as a 
sketch which we could easily have extended, had it 
appeared, as it docs not, to be suitable to our plan. It 
will prove more interesting, we think, to pass now to 
the external structure and appearance. 

It will be obvious from what we have said re- 
specting the colours of eggs, that we are not in- 
clined to adopt in all its extent the theory of many 
naturalists, which maintains the peculiar colours and 
forms of animals to be gi\en them by nature lor the 
purpose of concealment from their enemies. As in 
the instance of caterpillars this theory meets us again 
in full torcc, we shall mention a few facts which ap- 
pear not only to be at variance with it, but shew, we 
think, that the facts of the theorists may stand as 
appropriately for exception’s as for a general rule. 
Since cater])illars form the staple food of soft- billed 
birds and of the young of most hard-billed birds, not 
to mention the parasite grubs of ichneumon flies which 
destroy great numbers, nature has provided an im- 
mense abundance of them beyond what is requisite 
for continuing the race. Were it maintained, there- 
fore, that they were all by design so formed and 
coloured as to deceive the eyes of birds and ichneu- 

? Lyonnet, Anat. de la Chenille, 106, 
f lleauniur,Mein. i. 145. 





mons, the purpose of their superabundant production 
would be frustrated. We have no doubt, indeed, that 
insectivorous animals can instinctively detect their 
prey, in all the usual modes of concealment, as 
acutely as the practised eye of a naturalist, who can 
with ease perceive what escapes the observation of the 
inexperienced. When a woodpecker is taught by na- 
ture to detect a wood-boring caterpillar, by the bark 
sounding hollow when lapped with his bill, and when 
an ichneumon tly can detect a chrysalis closely rolled 
up in a leaf we should be strongly inclined to doubt 
that colour or form could afford very effectual conceal- 
ment from enemies, though we readily grant that 
many probable instances of this have been adduced. 
Of these instances it may be well to give a few ex- 
amples. 

The caterpillar of a nocturnal moth (Noctua algcBy 
Fabr.) is said to assume the colour of the lichens 
upon which it feeds, being grey when it feeds on a 
grey one {Parmelia saxatilifiy Acii.), and always yel- 
low when it feeds on a yellow one (Cetraria juni- 
perina, Acii.t) ; the change of colour being (it is 
alleged) intended by Providence to conceal it from 
its enemies, as it becomes difficult to distinguish it 
from the lichens. The caterpillar of the coronet moth 
{Acronycta Li gastric Ochsknheim.), which feeds 
upon the privet, is so exactly of the colour of the un- 
derside of the leaf, to which it usunlly clings during 
the day, that a person may have the leaf in his hand 
without discovering the caterpillar J ; a circumstance 
explained upon the same principle. This, indeed, is 
no uncommon circumstance, as many caterpillars 
very nearly resemble the colour of the leaves upon 
which they feed ; and the wonder rather is, that so 

* See “Insect Arrhiteclure,” p. 174-5. 
f Fabr. Vorlcsun^. in Kirby and Sjience, ii. 220. 

[]. Brahm, Inscclcn, in ibid. p. 221. 




many others should not be similarly coloured, when 
we consider that their stomachs occupy the greater 
portion of their bodies, and are generally gorged with 
food. It would be no difficult matter, therefore, to 
enumerate several hundred examples of caterpillars 
resembling in colour the substances upon which they 
feed. It strikes us as more singular to find a great 
many which, though they feed on green leaves, re- 
semble in colour the grey or brown bark of the 
branches where they usually rest when not feeding. 



Caterpillar^ of the CUfden nonpareil feeding on the grey poplar. 

A marked instance of this occurs in the caterpillar of 
one of our largest and most beautiful moths, the Clif- 
den nonpareil {Catocala frajcin/. Sen rank), which 
feeds on the ash and the poplar, and is so similar to 
a stripe of brown lichen dotted with black, that it 
would not be readily discovered by any person but a 
naturalist^. 


*J. R. 




Caterpillars of the Clifden nonpareil in a more advaneod stagfe of jjrowth. 

Of the extraordinary tropical insects popularly 
termed Walking-leaves, belonging to several orders 
and families (Lon/s/fif, MantiSy Phaamay &c.), the 
wing-cases, not only in colour, but in texture, and 
even in veining, are so exactly like leaves, from the 
fresh green of those newly expanded to the faded 
brown of those withered and fallen, that botanists 
themselves might be deceived if they were detached 
I'rorn the insects and exhibited as real leaves. Among 
the locusts of Fabricius (Plerojihyllay Kiiiby) alone, 
we find the various species with wing-cases re- 
sembling in this m.anner the leaves of the laurel, the 
myrtle, the citron, the lily, the sage, the olive, the ca- 
mellia, thyme, and grass. 

The Spectres (P/iasmata% Lichtenstein), on the 
other hand, resemble the smaller branches of trees 
with their spray ; and so minutely detailed is this mi- 
micry that the very snags and knobs, as Kirby and 
Spence remark, are accurately imitated. Those who 
are curious in such matters may readily find similar 
instances in some of our native caterpillars, by no 
means uncommon. In the latter part of summer, for 
example, by beating the bushes of a hawthorn hedge 
while an umbrella is held under, the caterpillar of the 
brimstone moth {Rumia Crat(E^at(i? Duponchet) 
may often be found, appearing, as it stalks along the 


 



Wfilkinff-leaf insert {Vhyllia fu^mta., Dumerii.), mag;nified. 

whalebones ol’ the umbrella, like a self-moving withered 
branch, the skin being wrinkled and furrowed like 
the bark, while the bulgings of the rings and a notched 
protuberance on the back add much to the resem- 
blance. 



Transfonnations of the hrimstonc moth (Rumia Cratgf>gafa), 
a, the caterpillar in its resting position. 6, the moth, c, the eggs. 
d, the young caterpillar. 

We found during last summer, on an elder, at Lee, 
several specimens of a similar walking-branch cater- 
pillar, that of llie swallow-tail moth {Oiirapivryx 
Samhucaria, Leach), not so conmion as the preced- 
ing, but equally remarkable ; for the ringed bulgings 
on the body are precisely like those of an elder branch, 
while the longitudinal stripes arc like the cracks in 
the bark^. It is likewise worthy of remark that these 
caterpillars, when not feeding, rest upon their pro- 
legs, with their body stretched out at various angles 
from the branch, their only support being a thread of 




silk, from which the head haTifii;s, in order that they may 
always be ready to drop down in safety, by extending 
this thread, on the sndclen ajiproach of enemies. As 
they feed chiefly in the nie^ht, they may be seen con- 
tiiiuins; in this stiff atid singular attitude for a whole 
day without movinpr, “ So that, doubtless,’’ say 
Kirby and Spence, “ the sparrows and other birds 
are frequently deceived by this manoeuvre, and thus 
baulked of their prey. Rosel’s p^ardener, mistakinp^ 
one of these caterpillars for a dead twip^, started back 
in great alarm, when upon attcm})ting to break it he 
found it was a liviiiff animal*.’’ We are well 



Caterpillars of the swallow-tailed moth, resembling the twigs on 
which they rest. 

* Intr, ii, 236 3 Jlosel; lusecten; i. v. 27. 






persuaded, however, that neither a bird, an ichneumon, 
nor a naturalist, would have been apt to fall into such 
a mistake. 

This family of caterpillars (Geometridoi, Stephens) 
have been by collectors not inappropriately named 
surveyors, loopers, and geometers, from their peculiar 
manner of inovinf^, which may readily be conceived 
by those who have not seen them, when we mention 
that at the commencement of each step their bodies 
present a pretty exact tip^ure of the Greek letter Q. 
In this position, laying hold with their hinder prolep^s, 
they stretch out their lieads to the full extent of their 
body, layinpf hold with their fore legs while they bring 
forward their body into the O form again. 

Such are among the most prominent examples ad- 
duced by naturalists who advocate the theory that 
these resemblances to inanimate objects are intended 
to conceal insects from their enemies*. We shall 
now gi\e a lew instances which have suggested 
themselves as no less coiToborative of the opposite 
doctrine. The first which occurs to us is one of the 
surveyor caterpillars, whose movements we have just 
been describing, found very commonly on the cur- 
rant, the gooseberry, and the black thorn, and called 
by collectors the magpie (^Abraxas (h'ossulariata, 
Leach). This caterpillar is very conspicuous from 
being spotted, somewhat like the ])erfect insect, with 
black upon a bright yellow ground, and contrasting 
strongly both with the deep green of the leaves upon 
which it feeds, and the dark-coloured bark upon 
which it usually rests. The caterpillars of the water 
betony moth {CuevUia Scrophiflarifp, Hubncr), 
and of the burnet moth {Eudidia G/yphica, Och- 
SENHEIM.), are similarly marked with deep black on a 
yellow ground, which must render them \ery conspi- 
cuous. The caterpillars of the small tortoise-shell 
* See Kirby and Spence, Intr. ii. 219-237. 




butterfly (Vanessa Urticce)^ are, we admit, very simi- 
lar in colour to the nettles they are found on ; but we 
cannot, surely, say the same of the dark black ones 
of the peacock (V. Io)y also nettle feeders, particu- 
larly as these are not only larg^e, but keep top;ether in 
numerous companies ; which also applies to the cater- 
pillar of the Camberwell beauty (V. Antiopa)^ as 
well as to the conspicuous caterpillar of the buff tip 
(Pij^rera bvccphala^ Ochsenh.), so very destructive 
in certain years to beeches, oaks, limes, filberts, and 
other trees Some of those just mentioned, indeed, 
are provided, as vve shall afterwards see, with better 
means of defence than their colours ; but if peculiar 
colours be ^iven by nature for the purpose of conceal- 
ment, as in the instance of the caterpillars of the 
small tortoise-shell, why are these studded with thorns 
in the same way as the conspicuous caterpillars of the 
peacock and the Camberwell beauty ? In this, as 
in many other instances, the theory evidently proves 
too much. 

To the examples which we have here p;iven of 
conspicuous caterpillars, we could easily add some 
hundreds more ; but thinking these sufficient, we 
may be permitted, by way of farther illustration, to 
allude to the instances remarkable in perfect insects. 
Kirby and Spence mention a different kind of imita- 
tion of form and colour, which they think “ affords 
beautiful instance of the wisdom of Providence in 
adapting means to their end.’* One of those two- 
winged flies (Volucella'y Geoffroi), which bear a 
considerable resemblance to humble bees, lives during 
the larva state in the hives of the latter; and it is 
inferred, that as the flies “ strikingly resemble those 
bees in shape, clothing, and colour, the Author of 
nature has provided that they may enter these nests 

* All these caterpillars are figured in this volume : see contents 
pf the engravings, 





and deposit their e^^s undiscovered;” for “did 
they venture themselves amongst the humble bees in 
a less kindred form, their lives would probably pay 
the forfeit of their presumption 



A two-winged fly ( Volucella j)lumata, Mkigkv). 

We do not conceive that any dissent from this 
doctrine has a tendency to weaken or destroy the 
smallest link in the beautiful chain of causes which 
leads us upwards to the admirable superintendence 
of the p:reat First Cause; and, therefore, we state 
that, in the case before us, our justly eminent authors 
surely forgot, that bees wtII know strange individuals 
of their own species, and beat them off when they 
attempt to plunder their hives; and these robber bees 
are not only like but identical with tbeiiiselves in 
shape, clothing, and colour. Indeed, when it is con- 
sidered that in the designs of Providence, as e\idenced 
by the economy of nature, the nourishment of the 
stronger species of carnivorous animals is as much 
regarded as the means which the weaker have of 
escaping from them, such general rules cannot be but 
of very limited application. 

Darwin, as we formerly mentioned, maintained 
that butterflies resembled the coloins of the flowers 
which they frequent; and many of them may be 
granted to do so without leading us to adopt the 
Intr. ii. 223. 




inference of the theorists that they are thus coloured 
to conceal them from their enemies. Were this, in- 
deed, the true cause of these colours, the butterflies 
ou^ht to remain stationary on the flowers, without 
sportinc^ about in the sunshine, as if on purpose to 
show the birds and the drap^on flies that they are 
living insects, and not inanimate flowers. In the 
instance of many moths which fly by twilight, this is 
no less obvious; for instead of being of dark dusky 
colours, which would have effectually concealed them 
from the bats and the fern-owls, they are frequently 
white, or at least of such light colours as show well in 
the dusk. There is but small need of enumerating 
examples of this, and it will be suflicient to name the 
white-ghost moth (Hepialus Hnmvli)^ which may 
often be seen, where hops or burdocks grow, hovering 
on the wing for hours together; the satin moth 
(Lev coma Salicis, Stephens), which floats about the 
air like an animated flake of snow-white down, or 
flits conspicuously from tree to tree among the higher 
branches of a row of })oplars; and the magpie moth 
(^Abraxas grossi/lariaia), usually abundant in every 
garden, though liberally sprinkled with black spots, 
has enough of white to distinguish it in its heavy, 
lumbering flight, even when the last rays of the 
twilight are disappearing. That these are not strained 
examples of insects so coloured as to be conspicuous 
to their enemies, will farther be obvious from a com- 
mon contrivance of schoolboys to catch bats. They 
chalk the seed-heads of burdocks in such a manner 
as to resemble the white moths alluded to; and 
throwing these up where a bat is observed flying, he 
fails not to dart upon the supposed moth, and the 
bur adhering to his wings, brings him down to pay 
the penalty of his mistake*. 

If wc leave colouring out of consideration, and 
^ J. R. 





look merely at the forms of caterpillars, we think it 
must be apparent to the most indifferent observer, 
that, though they have often a rather ungainly, 
repulsive, and sometimes a formidable aspect, yet 
this renders them in numerous instances very conspi- 
cuo\is. The forms, also, we may remark, which ay^pear 
disagreeable or threatening to us, may not seem so 
to birds and ichneumons which make them their prey. 
One of the most singular of these forms of caterpil- 
lars occurs in that of the pebble moth {Notodonta 
Ziczac^ Stephens^), the form being such that it is 
not easy for one unacquainted with it to tell which is 
the head and which the tail. The puss {Centra Vi- 
7iula) is another whose form and attitudes cannot fail 
to attract the notice of the most indifferent observer. 
Dr. Shaw, in his Zoological Lectures, quotes from a 
country newspaper a most ludicrous account of this 
“ monster,’* as it is there called, having a head like a 
lion, jaws like a shark, a horn like a unicorn, and 
two tremendous stings in its tail. The gross exag- 
geration of this description will be obvious from the 
following accurate figures ; yet how formidable soever 
this caterpillar may appear to us (even Rosel, the 
entomologist, was afraid of it at first), we know that 
no one is more readily pounced upon by at least two 
syiecies of ichneumons, which seem, therefore, not to 
be afraid to deposit their eggs in its body t ; and it is 
no doubt often made prey of by birds, at least in its 
young state ; for when full grown, being about as thick 
as a man’s thumb, it may prove rather too bulky a 
morsel J. 

Our readers may like to see, by way of contrast 
to the exaggerated account quoted by Shaw, the 
excellent description of the puss caterpillar given 
by old Isaac Walton. “ The very colours of caterpil- 

? Figured in Insect Architecture, p. 172. 
t See ibid., pp, 195 and 325-6. J J. R. 






lars/’ says he, as one has observed, are ele^nt and 
beautiiuL I shall, for a taste of the rest, describe 
one of them; which I will, some time the next 
month, shew you feedinpf on a willow tree ; and you 
shall find him punctually to answer this very descrip* 
tion: his lips and mouth somewhat yellow; his eyes 






black as jet; his forehead purple; his feet and hinder 
parts g;reen; his tail two-forked and black; the 
whole body stained with a kind of red spots, which 
run alon^ the neck and shoulder-blade, not unlike the 
form of St. Andrew’s cross, or the letter X made thus 
crosswise, and a white line drawn down his back to 
his tail; all which add much beauty to his whole 
body. And it is to me observable, that at a fixed a^e 
this caterpillar g’ives over to eat, and towards winter 
comes to be covered over with a strant^e shell or crust, 
called an aurdia^\ and so lives a kind of dead life 
without eating all the winter. And as others of 
sevenil kinds turn to be several kinds of flies and 
vermin the spring following; so this caterpillar then 
turns to be a painted butterflyt.” 

Another caterpillar, called by collectors the lob- 
ster {Siauropus FagU Germar.), which is rarely 
met with, has not only very long legs, a circum- 
stance uncommon among caterpillars, hut assumes 
an attitude similar to the puss just figured, though 
the shape of the creature renders it much more 
strange. This caterpillar was known to Mouffet, 
and is indifferently figured by him, as well as by 



Lobster caterpillar (^Stauropus Fagi, Gehmab.) 

* See Insect Architecture, p. 194. 
f Walton’s Angler, chap, v 



Albin and Donovan; but Rosel’s figure, which we 
here copy, is more accurate. 

Looking at these very singular forms of caterpil- 
lars, we could not anticipate, without previous know- 
ledge, that all of them produced insects of nearly the 
same shape, though ditfering considerably in size 
and colour. It is not a little remarkable, also, 
that the colours of caterpillars, with a few excep- 
tions, such as the magpie moth {Abraxaa grossi/la- 
riata), are very different indeed from the insects into 
which they are transformed. Plain and inconspicu- 
ous caterpillars will sometimes give splendidly co- 
loured insects, as in the case of the Vanessa butter- 
flies ; while finely marked caterpillars will give 
plain insects, as the one whose gaudy stripes of sky- 
blue, scarlet, and black, has obtained it the appro- 
priate name of the lackey (Clisiocampa nenslria, 
Curtis), though the moth is of a dull brownish 
yellow. Two of our finest native insects, however, 
the swallow-tailed butterfly and the emperor-moth, 
are produced from beautifully coloured caterpillars ; 
but neither the colours nor the markings of these 
have any resemblance. 

A more extraordinary difference, however, between 
the first and the last stage of insect life occurs in the 
case of those insects whose larvae are acpiatic. One 
of our commonest families of insects, the gnats (Cw- 
licida\ Latr.), whose ingenious mode ol’ constructing 
a floating raft of eggs we have already described, 
affords a very strikingillustration of our position. When 
these eggs are hatched, the grubs appear ; but they 
do not, as is said by older naturalists, “ make them- 
selves little lodgments of glue, which they fasten to 
some solid body at the very bottom of the water, unless 
they meet with chalk, whose softness permits them to 
burrow into its substance^.” On the contrary, they 
* Spectacle de la Nature, i. 123. 






usually swim near the surface of the water, with their 
heads downwards and their tails in the air, for a pur- 
pose which will presently be obvious. These grubs, 
called scvrrs in the north, may be met with in abun- 
dance during the summer in ditches or in water- 
butts^, appearing like minute, whitish, semi-trans- 
parent shrimps or fishes, when their bodies are a little 
bent, as they frequently are. 



Aquatic grubs of gnats in a glass vessel of water. 

The organs for breathing, which are very remark- 
able in the grub of the gnat, are not situated along the 
sides, as in caterpillars, but in the tail. A tube for 
the purj)ose of respiration goes off from the terminal 
ring of the body at an angle. Its main buoys, also, 
arc its tail and its breathing-tube, both of which end in 
a sort of funnel, composed of hairs, in form of a star, 
anointed with oil, so as to repel water. Sw^ammer- 
dam remarks that when, by handling it too roughly, 
this oil is removed, the grub “ can no longer suspend 
itself on the surface of the water ; 1 have, on these 
occasions, observed it put its tail in its mouth, and 
afterwards draw it back, as a water-fowl will draw 
its feathers through its bill to prepare them for resist- 

* See Insect Art^hitecturei p, 20^ bottom figure^ on the right. 





mg water* ” The air, which enters through several 
dpenings in the breathing-tube, passes onwards to 
two lateral wind-pipes, very similar to those of cater- 
pillars, as above described. When it wishes to descend 
lo the bottom of the water, it folds up the hairs of the 
funnel, but by means of its oil retains at their ends a 
globule of air ; and when it wishes to re-ascend, it 
has only to open its hair funnel again. 



Larva of the common ^nat (Culex pipiensf ) floatinjf in water, 
fO'eatly magnified, a a, the body and head of the larva, h, the 
respiratory apparatus, situated in the tail, c, the larva, not mag- 
nified. 

A similar but more elegant apparatus for the same 
purpose occurs in the water-grub of a two-winged 
fly, which Goedart called the chameleon fly (Straiio^ 
9nys cham(pleoiu Meigen), because he found it could 
live nine months without food. The terminal ring of 
this grub is extended to a considerable length, and 
fringed at the end with a beautiful star-like funnel of 
thirty feathered hairs. Whether the creature oils these, 
* Biblia^ Naturec^ i. I54« 



like the g^rub of the gnat, we know not, but they 
perfectly repel water; and at the point where the 
insect hangs suspended, a small dimple may be 
observed on the surface. When it wishes to dive to 
the bottom, it has the power of bringing the ends of 
the hairs together, without diminishing the capacity of 
the funnel below ; and a globule of air, for the pur- 
pose of breathing under water, is thus enclosed and 
carried down, appearing, as Swammerdam says, like 
a brilliant pearl or polished silver. “ As for my 
part,” he adds, “ I dare boldly affirm, that the incom- 
prehensible greatness of the Deity manifests itself in 
these mysterious operations in a particular manner, 
and affords us an opportunity of examining, as it 
were, with our senses, the divine nature*.'* 



Buoy-like structure in tlie tail of a water-gjub of a two-wlnged fly 
i^Stratiumys Chamcelcon). 

* Swammerdam, part ii* 




The preceding’ grub may occasionally be found in 
shallow ditches, and about the edges of ponds, in 
summer ; but a remarkable larva, with a very dif- 
ferent apparatus for breathing, is much more common 
in similar situations, and also in the open drains from 
dunghills, &c. The latter is the maggot of a two- 
winged, bee-like fly (Helophibis pendulus, Meigen), 
and from its shape is appropriately termed rat^ tailed 
by Reaumur. The tail is the part of the grub which 
most merits attention, being formed somewhat after 
the telescopic model of the ovipositor of the breeze flies*. 



Telescopir-tiiiled water larvae. «, a i^lass vessel of water con- 
tiininjf the larvae, natural size, ft, inaffnjfied view of the tail, 
with The breathing-tube partially contracted, c, a still more ea. 
larged view of the tail. 

^ See Insect Architecture^ p, 403. 





but consisting only of two tubes, the outer one serv- 
ing as a sheath, within which the inner one can be 
retracted at pleasure. Both of these are composed of 
fibrous rings ; and are so very extensile, that Reaumur 
has seen them pushed out to twelve times the length 
of the body of the maggot. The contrivance by which 
the inner tube is pushed out is no less simple than 
ingenious. It is furnished at the base with two 
flexible pipes, coiled up, when it is sheathed, into 
several folds, and communicating with the double 
wind-])ipe {Trachea) in the body. When it wishes 
to extend this breathing- tube, therefore, it inflates, by 
means of air from the wind-pipe, the flexible pipes, 
and in this way pushes them outward, and with them 
the breathing- tube, to the extent required. The 
breathing-tube itself is very slender, but terminates 
similarly to those of the grub of the chameleon fly, in 
five bristles. This breathing apparatus is admirably 
adapted to the economy of these maggots ; as from 
their seeking their food amongst ooze and mud, they 
would often be exposed to suffocation, which their 
extensile tube effectually prevents. 




Water worms {Nats), a a half-concealfd in the sand, 
b b b, their sand-tubes exposed. 




It may not be improper to guard our younger 
readers against mistaking for these telescopic-tailed 
larv ae, an animal, found in the same situations, which 
has a considerable general resemblance to them, 
though it is not even an insect, but a water-worm 
(iVais),upon which Bonnet made numerous curious ex- 
periments. The nais may he easily known by its being 
reddish, while the maggot is of a dirty white colour. 

It ai)pears to be the nais^ or some similar fresh- 
water worm, which medical men, unacquainted with 
natural history, have supposed to get into the human 
stomach through the medium ol‘ water, as we shall 
presently notice. 

A no less singular structure for respiration than that 
just described, occurs in the aquatic larvae of the 
dragon-flies (Lihellulidfr, Leach), which difler so 
remarkably from the perfect insects in the beauty of 
colour and elegance of jbrrn that has procured for 
them the gallant appellation of damsels (demoiselles) 
in France. This title agrees as badly with their 
habits as the popular English name of horse-sthigers, 
since they have no apparatus for stinging; “and so 
far,” says Reaumur, “ from seeking an innocent nutri- 
ment ill the pulp of fruits, or the nectar of flowers, 
they are more like amazons than damsels, hovering 
in the air only to pounce upon other insects, which 
they crush with their powerful mandibles. Should 
they quit the margin of a pond or the banks of a 
rivulet, where they may be seen hawking about in 
multitudes, it is only to pursue and seize the moth or 
the butterfly, that has fled for shelter to the bushes.” 

Though these larvae are furnished with six feet, 
they not only move very little, but do not use them 
for walking so much as for capturing their prey. 
Their motion is effected by a very peculiar method. 
When one of these larvae is procured from the bottom 
of a pond or ttie pool of a brook, let it be put into a large 



 

saucer with water, with some of the dead leaves or sticks 
it previously employed as a covering ; these will soon 
be seen floating towards the tail, and afterwards re- 
pelled, as a floating feather will be by a stick of sealing- 
wax, or a bit of amber, when electrically excited. When 
the insect has been kept out of the water for a short 
time, the desire, or necessity, of respiration is increased, 
and when again put into the water, the pumping is 
repeated with unusual force and frequency. If it be 
held in the hand, head downwards, and some drops 
of water be let fall on its tail, it instantly sucks it in, 
and the dimensions of its body become visibly aug- 
mented ; blit it collapses again when the water is ex- 
pelled, which is effected by the same appamtus. 

While in the water, if a solution of cochineal, saf- 
fron, indigo, or any other coloured fluid, be let down, 
with great care, by means of a glass tube, just over 
the tail of the insect, it will soon be seen to eject a 
stream of the coloured solution to the distance of 
several inches. Or the same may be seen by remov- 
ing it suddenly out of a coloured fluid into limpid 
water ; when the coloured jet stream will be still more 
cons])icuous. The most extraordinary circumstance 
respecting this jet is, that it jiropels the creature 
through the water in coiisecpience of its being resisted 
by the stationary mass of the fluid behind it, and a 
contrary current being thence produced by this singu- 
lar ])uniping. As the insect, between every stroke of 
the internal piston, is obliged to draw in a fresh sup- 
ply of water, an interval consequently occurs between 
the strokes, during which it will sometimes elevate its 
tail above water and squirt out a small stream like 
that from a little syringe. 

This wonderful apparatus serves several purposes; 
for, besides aiding the insect to move, the reverberatory 
current brings small water insects within its reach : 
it is also it would appear, partly appropriated to 




respiration, like the g;ills of fish, thons^h there are 
several other spiracles in other parts of the body com- 
municating with the large convoluted windpipes. 
The anal apparatus is surrounded with five hard, 
moveable, triangular pieces, all fringed with hairs, 
which it can open or shut at pleasure. The largest 
of these pieces is placed above, while the two smallest 
stand at the sides, and two of the middle size below. 
When they are shut close they form a blunt cone 



a, grub of a dragon fly ; h ft, tho body laid open and magnified, 
to show the windpipes ; c, the ]minping appaiatus shut ; d, the 
same open ; £?, head of the insect. 


It may. not be out of place to take notice here of 
another singular structure in the same species of lar- 
vae, which is probably unmatched in the insect world. 
In the larvae of most insects the under-lip is small 
and inconspicuous, but in those of the dragon-flies, 

* De Geer, ii, 066; and Reaumur; vi. 393, &c. 





“ it is,” to follow the excellent description of Kirby 
and Spence, “by far the largest organ of the mouth, 
which, when closed, it entirely conceals, and it not 
only retains but actually seizes the animal’s prey, by 
means of a very singular pair of jaws with which it is 
furnished. Conceive your under-lip (to have recourse, 
like Reaumur on another occasion, to such a compa- 
rison) to be horny instead of fleshy, and to be elon- 
gated perpendicularly downwards, so as to wrap over 
your chin, and extend to its bottom, — that this elonga- 
tion is there expanded into a triangular convex plate, 
attached to it by a joint, so as to bend upwards 
again and fold over the face as high as the nose, con- 
cealing not only the chin and the first-mentioned 
elongation, but the mouth and part of the cheeks : 
conceive, moreover, that to the end of this last-men 
tioned ])late are fixed two other convex ones, so broad 
as to cover the whole nose and temples, — that these can 
open at pleasure transxersely like a pair of jaws, so as 
to ex])ose the nose and mouth, and that their inner 
edges where they meet are cut into numerous sharj) 
teeth, or spines, or armed with one or more long 
shaip claws ; — you will then have as accurate an 
idea as my powers of description can give of the 
strange conformation of tlie under-lip in the larvae of 
Libdlulina, which conceals the mouth and face pre- 
cisely as I have supposed a similar construction of 
your lip would do yours. You will, probably, admit 
that your own visage would present an appearance 
not very engaging while concealed by such a mask ; 
but it would strike still more awe into the spectators, 
were they to see you first open the two upper jaw 
plates, which would project from each temple like the 
blinders of a horse ; and next, having, by means of 
the joint at your chin, let down the whole apparatus, 
and uncovered your face, employ them in seizing any 





food thiLt presented itself, and conveying it to your 
mouth. Yet this procedure is that adopted by the 
larvae of the dragon-fly provided with this strange 
organ. While it is at rest, it applies close to and 
covers the face. When the insects would make use 
of it, they unfold it like an arm, catch the prey at 
which they aim by means of the mondibuliform plates, 
and then partly refold it so as to hold the prey to the 
mouth in a convenient position for the operation of the 
two pairs of jaws with which they are provided. R(;au- 
mur once found one of them thus holding and de- 
vouring a large tadpole ; a sufficient proof that Swam- 
merdam w^as greatly deceived in imagining earth to be 
the food of animals so tremendously armed and fitted 
for carnivorous purposes. In the larvae of Libellula, 
Fabr., it is so exactly resembling a mask, that if en- 
tomologists ever went to masquerades, they could not 
more effectually relieve the insipidity of such amuse- 




The mask of the drag;on*fly icrub, in four different states of 
opening and shutting. 


ments and attract the attention of the demoiselles than 
by appearing at the supper table with a mask of this 
construction, and serving themselves by its assistance. 
It would be difficult, to be sure, by mechanism, to 




supply the place of the muscles with which in the in- 
sect it is amply provided; but Merlin, or his suc- 
cessor, has surmounted greater obstacles^/’ 

The larva) of the dragon-fly do not, however, 
trust to this mask alone for surprising their prey, but 
steal upon it, as De Geer observes, as a cat does 
upon a bird, very slowly, and as if they counted their 
steps ; and then, by suddenly unmasking, seize it by 
surprise: so artful are they that insects, and even 
small fishes, find it difficult to elude their attacks f. 

The larva of a very singular insect {Reduviua per- 
sonatifs, Fabr.), which preys upon the bed bug 
(Cwicx ledulariufi)y not being furnished with a mask, 
is at the pains to construct one, composed of dust, 
particles of sand, fragments of wool or silk, and simi- 
lar matter, which makes it assume so very grotesciue a 
figure, that the animal would at first be taken for one 
of the ugliest spiders. Its awkward motions add not 
a little to the effect of its odd appearance. It can, in- 
deed, if it so chooses, move with considerable speed; 
but for the purj)oses of successful hunting, it endea- 
vours to assume the aspect of an inanimate substance, 
and hitches along in the most leisurely manner possi- 
ble. It only moves one leg at a time, and having set 
one foot forward, it pauses a little before it brings up 
the contiguous one, proceeding in the same way witli 
its other legs. It is no less carefully cautious in 
moving its antennas striking, as it were, first with 
one, and then, after a short pause, with the other. 
By means of a camel’s hair pencil, or a feather, it is 
easy to unmask the insect, for, when touched, it 
usually abandons its covering. 

* In trod, to Ent. iii. 12G. 


t De Geer, ii, 6/4. 




Growth, Moulting, Strength, Defence, and Hybernation of Larvap, 


From the facts beiiipf commonly known, we are not 
surprised, that an ostrich, nine feet hi|i’h and 150 lbs. 
weiii^ht, should be ])roduced from an eji^p^ about the 
size of a cocoa-nut, or that “a G;min of mustard-seed 
— the least of all seeds — when it is «;rown,” should 
become “a tree (Phytolacca dioica?),m that the 
birds of the air come and lodo;e in the branches 
thereof*.” But when similar facts are recorded by 
natumlists respecting* insects, general readers are apt 
to wonder, because they are less familiar with these 
details, than with the economy of trees springing from 
seeds and birds being produced from eggs. When we 
repeat, after Lyonnet, that the caterpillar of the goat- 
moth (Cossus ligniperda, Fabr.) becomes 72,000 times 
heavier than when newly batched t, we do not state 
anything more striking and admirable than that an 
embryo of small dimensions should become an ele- 
phant, or that an acorn should produce a lofty and 
magnificent oak. The facts respecting the growth of 
insects have an adventitious interest, because, in con- 
sequence of the minuteness of the objects to which 
they relate, they are less familiar to popular observa- 
tion. In the instance of the silk-worm, the progress 
of growth has been accurately ascertained by scientific 
cultivators. It appears that a single caterpillar, 
weighing when first hatched only the hundredth part 
of a grain, consumes in thirty days above an ounce of 
leaves, — that is to say, it devours in vegetable sub- 

* See Irby and Mangle’s Travels, letter v. 

f Traite Anat. de la Chenille, p, 11. 


 


stance about 60,000 times its primitive weight. In 
warmer climates, silk-worms consume a rather less 
quantity of leaves, because these are perhaps more 
nutritive ; but, in that case, the silk produced is not 
so delicate and fine. The following statements are 
the result of experiments made by Count Daiidolo ; — 

Progressive increase of silk-worms in weight. 

GRAINS. 


A hundred worms just hatched weigh about 

After the first moulting  

After the second moulting 

After the third moulting  

After the fourth moulting 

On attaining their greatest size and weight 


They have, therefore, in thirty days increased  
times their primitive weight. 


Progressive increase of silk-worms in length. 


A silk-worm just hatched measures about 



After the first moulting 



After the second moulting . . 



After the third moulting 



After the fourth moulting 



After the fifth moulting it may reach 




The length of the silk-worm, therefore, increases 
about forty times in twenty-eight days*. 

By recalling to memory the comparisons of the 
eggs of insects with the seeds of plants, and of cater- 
pillars with buds, which ought to be taken (if we 
may trust Swammerdam) literally rather than 
poetically, we shall arrive at more distinct notions of 
the manner in which the growth and changes of 
larvae are accomplished. The buds of plants are 
composed of successive leaves closely embosomed 
within each other’s foldings, the outer one being 
generally hard and corneous, from the exposure of 
its vessels to the colds of winter, while the inner 
? Count Dandolo on Silk-worms, p. 326, Eng, Trans, 






leaves, bein^ thence protected, remain soft and 
pulpy. But as soon as the inner leaves receive 
an accession of sap, which rises from the roots 
on the return of spring, their vessels swell 
and their nervures exj)and; while the outer leaf, from 
its vessels being' shrunk and partly obliterated, 
undergoes little change besides being pushed out 
and sometimes entirely thrown off by the growth of 
the inner leaves, which it had previously enclosed. 
It may be remarked, also, that this outer envelope of 
a bud is not united with the inner leaves by any 
interlacing of their substance or of their vessels, 
though ill some cases there is an adhesive gluten 
which partly binds them together ; but this is never 
so strong as to prevent the expansion of the leaves. 
On comparing one of the bud envelopes thus thrown 
off, we can scarcely persuade ourselves that so small 
a covering could ever have contained the large 
spreading leaves which have burst from them. 

A caterpillar con’esponds in several circumstances 
with the leaf * bud. The outer skin encloses a 
succession of several other skins, each becoming more 
delicate, soft, and indistinct than the one exterior to 
it, but gradually, like the expanding leaves, growing 
more substantial and firm as it receives a supply of 
nutriment. The chief mechanical difference be- 
tween the leaves folded up in the bud and the suc- 
cessive caterpillars enveloped within the skin of one 
newly hatched, is that the leaves in the bud receive 
all their nourishment through their foot-stalks from 
the root of the tree, whereas the caterpillar is nour- 
ished from within by the food digested in its stomach. 
The superfluous nourishment, usually in considerable 
quantity, and called the fat of the caterpillar, appears 
to lie between the successive skins, in a similar way 
to the adhesive gluten in the leaf bud. But as the 
first inner skin expands and increases in consistence^ 





the fat which lies between it and the outer skin 
seems to be absorbed into the body of the cater- 
pillar, and of course swellinp^ it out; while its abstrac- 
tion from the interior of the outer skin renders this 
much more dry, separates it from the inner skin, 
and disposes it to harden and shrivel. 

The absoq)tion of the fat also produces the re- 
markable consequence of gorginj:^ all the channels of 
nutrition, so that there is no lonp;er any demand 
upon the stomach for fresh supplies of food; and 
hun«-er (which wc imagine is caused either by the 
want of the accustomed pressure of food on the 
terminal nerves in the stomach, or of the irritation of 
the absorbents when they are left empty) is no 
longer felt. The caterpillar accordingly ceases to 
eat, and having no incentive to action remains motion- 
less. The outer skin, in the meanwhile, being 
deprived of its internal moisture by the absorption of 
the fat, goes on to harden and shrink, while all the 
internal organs become enlarged by the nutritive fat. 
The expansion, therefore, of the body of the cater- 
pillar on the one hand, and the shrinking of the old 
skin on the other, produce a mutual struggle, which, 
from the continued operation of the causes, must, it 
is obvious, be soon brought to a termination. 

The skin, from losing its internal moisture, loses 
also a portion of its colour, and becomes obscure 
and dull ; and the caterpillar, from being girt and 
squeezed by its pressure, begins to turn and twist 
itself in various directions, to rid itself if possible of 
the inconvenience. By continuing these movements, 
the creature succeeds at length in rending the old 
skin at its weakest part, which is usually on the 
back, just behind the head ; and in a lew minutes, 
using its body as a wedge, it may be seen issuing 
through the breach* The old skin is thus abandoned 
* E^aumur^ Mem. i. 185. 



 


like a worn shirt ; and the caterpillar appears in an 
entire new dress, the tints of which are fresher and 
brifi^hter, and the colours and markings often con- 
siderably different from the former. The insect, 
also, in consequence of the quantity of fat which has 
gone to augment its several parts, becomes all at 
once so much enlarged in size, that we can with diffi- 
culty conceive how it could have been contained in 
the old skin, out of which it has just crept. The 
cast skin is frequently so very perfect that it might 
almost be supposed to be the caterpillar itself, par- 
ticularly in those which are hairy, as this contributes 
to conceal the shrivelling. 

That the above account of the process of casting the 
skin is correct, appears both from the careful dissections 
which have been made by Swammerdam, Lyonnet, 
and Ramdohr, and also from the diseases incident 
to caterpillars from deficiency of food or of pure air. 
It is a circumstance of common occurrence to those 
who are in the habit of breeding insects, that when 
they are not supplied with a sufficient quantity of 
food, their bodies do not increase enough in thick- 
ness to rupture the old skin ; yet this becomes in due 
time hard and shrivelled from the absorption of the 
fat, though the insect, from its inability to break 
through, remains imprisoned. It might be sup- 
posed, that if plenty of food were at this moment 
supplied, it would subsequently acquire sufficient bulk 
and strength to rupture and escape from the old skin ; 
but this is impossible, as we have repeatedly found 
to our great disappointment. In the instance of 
the caterpillar of the moth, called by collectors the 
glory of Kent (Endromis versicolora, Stephens), 
which we found on a lime-tree at Lee, and were 
anxious to rear, fresh food was neglected to be 
given to it a short time before its third moult; and 
from that time it refused to eat, and soon died. By 





minute examination we found that it was impossible 
for it to eat, as all its organs were in a state of 
forward preparation for throwing off their exterior 
coat, — the old skin, in fact, covering them as a glove 
does the hand, and the new head lying distinctly 
farther back than the old. Neither the old man- 
dibles therefore, which were become dry and stiff* 
nor the new ones, which were encased in these, 
could bite the leaves ; and even if this had been 
accomplished, the entrance to the gullet was ob- 
structed by the shrivelling of the old skin there, 
and deglutition could not have taken place. The 
j)Oor caterpillar was in consequence starved to death 
in the midst of abundance of food, which it could 
neither chew nor swallow. Had it been skilfully 
assisted (as it was not) to get rid of the encum- 
brance of its old skin, we doubt not that it might 
ultimately have recovered^. Ileaumur mentions the 
very singular circumstance of a caterpillar of the 
six-spot burnet moth {Aiithrocera Filipendiiltpy 
Stephens) liaving actually, before its last moult, bit 
off portions of its old skin, which it first raised up 
and afterwards detached and tossed away. He did 
not, however, ascertain whether this was an 
accidental manoeuvre, or the usual process of this 
species of caterpillar t ; though the first, we think, is 
the more probable. 

The disorder called the Reds by the breeders of silk- 
worms, shows itself in red-coloured stains and blotches 
upon the skin ; while the caterpillars seem cramped, 
stupified, and suffocated, their rings dry up, and they 
look exactly like mummies. Count Dandolo refers this 
and most other diseases of silk- worms to cliemical 
agency. The great quantity of vegetable food 
devoured by caterpillars must be liable during hot 
weather to fermentation, if it be not digested 
* J.ll. t Reaumur, Mem. ii. 75. 




soon after it is swallowed, — a process which often 
terminates in the production of an acid; and as 
acids have a tendency to redden vegetable colours, 
the red blotches are plausibly ascribed to that 
cause. This conjecture, which originated with 
Count Dandolo, has been proved to be the fact by 
Professor Bnignatelli ; who made the very unexpected 
discovery that the red matter contains uric acid 
combined with ammonia, and consequently that the 
disorder is similar in its proximate cause to what is 
called the red gravel {Lithia renalis Goon) in 
man. This acid, then, from its excess in diseased 
caterpillars, impedes the process of nutrition, and 
prevents the animal from acquiring sufficient 
strength to throw off the old skin when the time for 
this arrives. 

It ap])ears, also, from the exi)eriments of Count 
Dandolo, that though caterpillars can live longer in 
air deprived of oxygen, or otherwise contaminated, 
than warm-blooded animals, yet they do not thrive, 
and are very liable to diseases, when they have not 
access to fresh air. In other words, the food which 
has been digested cannot without oxygen be con- 
verted into the fluid analogous to blood ; and in such 
cases, as we have repeatedly witnessed, instead of 
being appropriated to nourishment, it is thrown into 
the intestines, producing diarrhoea, or scour, as it is 
termed by the cultivators of the silk-worm. In this 
case the inner skin never acquires sufficient consist- 
ence, nor can the old one ever become dry enough to 
be cast. 

One of the most singular circumstances respecting 
the moult of caterpillars, is the manner in which the 
hairs are disposed in the new skin before moulting. 
These are not, like the feet and other organs, sheathed 
in the hairs of the old skin, but smoothly folded 
down in separate tufts; and if the old skin be 





removed a short time before it would be naturally 
cast, these tufts may be seen in a moist state, very 
similar to small wetted camel’ s-hair pencils lying 






close to the inner skin, — those on the fore part of the 
bo(fy laid towards the head, and fi’om the fourth rin^ 
backwards in a contrary direction. 

Swammerdam, Reaumur, and other naturalists, 
repeatedly tried the experiment of cutting off the 
hair from caterpillars about to moult, without in the 
least affecting; the hairs on the new skin ; but when a 
foot or any other member is accidentally mutilated, it 
is also wanting in the moulted caterpillar, facts 
which stronfl^ly corroborate the details we have given 
above. 

It is a still more singular circumstance, ascer- 
tained by Swammerdam, De Geer, Lyonnet, and 
Bonnet, that caterpillars and grubs not only cast 
their external skins, but also that which lines their 
breathing-tubes and intestines. “ Some days,” says 
Bonnet, “before the change, the caterpillar voids 
along with its excrements the membrane which in- 
vests the interior of its stomach and intestines. I 
have also remarked, that during the moult, packets of 
the tracheal vessels may be seen attached to the cast 
skin, and thrown off along with it.” De Geer has 
distinctly seen white fibres proceeding from the inte- 
rior spiracles of a butterfly remain attached to the 
pupa-case. He conjectures that these fibres consist 
of the delicate membrane which lines the wind-pipes ; 
and that they are moidted like the lining of the sto- 
mach of a lobster, or of a caterpillar. Lyonnet, in 
some measure, confirms this conjecture*. 

In his admirable description of the rhinoceros- 
beetle {Orycics jiasicoimis^ , Swammerdam says of 
the grub : “ Nothing in all nature is, in my opinion, a 
more wonderful sight, than the change of skin in 
these and other the like grubs. This matter, there- 
fore, deserves the greatest consideration, and is wor- 
thy to be called a specimen of Nature’s miracles. For 
? Bonnet, CEuvres, vol, \iii, pp.303>311. 





it is not the external skin only that these ^bs cast, 
like ser]:>ents ; but the throat and a part of the sto- 
mach, and even the inward surface of tlie great gut, 
change their skin at the same time. Yet this is not 
the whole of these wonders ; for at the same time 
some hundreds of breathing-pipes within the body of 
the grub cast also each its delicate and tender skin. 
These several skins are afterwards collected into 
eighteen thicker, and, as it were, compounded ropes, 
nine on each side of the body, which, when the skin 
is cast, slip gently and by degrees from within the 
body through the eighteen apertures or orifices of the 
tubes before described, having their tops or ends 
directed upwards towards the head. Two other 
branches, also, of the breathing-pi])es, that are 
smaller and have no point of respiration, cast a skin 
likewise. If any one separates the cast little ropes or 
congeries of breathing-pipes with a fine needle, he 



Exuvia and pulmonary vessels of the rhinoeeros beetle (Ori/ctes 
nnsivurnis^. A, magnified view of a pulmonary braiirli and 
vesicle; a «, pulmonary branch, composed of a membranous 
fcheath and cartilaginous rings; //, vesicle. B, laiwa; c c, nine 
reddish breathing-holes. C, exuvia, or cast skin of the larv^; 
dd ddf shins of the pulmonary tubes* 





will very distinctly see their several branches and 
ramifications, and also their rino^ed structure^/’ 

The caterpillars of moths and butterflies G;enerally 
cast their skins five times ; but some cast them seven 
and even ten times, as in the case, accordinp; to 
Cuvier, of the ^reat tio:er-moth {Arctia Caja, Ste- 
phens). By the breeders of silk-worms this natural 
process is ranked among their maladies ; and not alto- 
gether without reason, as it frequently proves fatal, 
from causes to which we have already alluded. 
For several hours, often for a whole day, after cast- 
ing the skin, the caterpillar continues sluggish and 
moves little ; and as the vessels are still replete with 
the fat previously absorbed, there is no stimulus for 
it to eat. But as soon as this supply is exhausted, 
it commences again to eat voraciously, in order to 
supply another store of fat for its succeeding moult. 

The moulting of caterpillars, it may be remarked, 
bears but a slight resemblance to the casting of 
the feathers in birds, and the hair in quadrupeds. 
Birds generally cast their feathers once, and many 
twice, a-year, namely, in autumn and in spring t ; 
and quadrupeds in a similar way cast their hair. But 
in both these cases the process is gradual, and 
resembles that of shedding the milk-teeth when the 
jaw enlarges. All of these changes, however, pro- 
duce considerable derangements in the animals ; and 
they are seldom accomplished without disordering 
health, and sometimes endangering life. The great 
difference between the changes in insects and the 
other classes of animals evidently arises from the 
difference of their internal structure. It must be 
obvious to all, for example, that the human body 
wears. As old age advances the bones waste away 
and become smaller, the muscles and skin shrink and 

* Swammerdam, Bib. Nat. yol. i. p. 135. 

f Temrainck, Manuel d’Omithol. Intr. 





grow dry and shrivelled, and the stature grows shorter 
and more diminutive. Even in youth similar changes 
are in progress, a system of absorbent vessels being 
provided for removing worn materials from all parts 
of the body, and carrying at least one portion of these 
along with the blood into the lungs, whence it goes 
off in minute particles with the breath. No similar 
process of removing worn materials has, so far as we 
know, been discovered in caterpillars; and it is, in- 
deed, improbable, as the successive changes of the 
skin accomplish all that is wanted in this respect. That 
the worn materials, however, of the cast skins are 
not altogether useless, appears from the singular 
circumstance of the new-clothed caterpillar often 
devouring them, as that of the hawthorn-butterfly 
(Pieris Craimgi, Stephens) does the shell of the 
egg it has Just been hatched from^. It may be 
remarked, that it is chiefly the larger caterpillars of 
the puss and some of the hawk-moths which have 
been observed to eat ihcir skins ; none of the spi- 
nous or liairy ones seem to relish this strange sort of 
food. In the case of the warty-eft (Triton palustris, 
Elem.), wliich frequently casts its outer skin, we have 
observed that it is frequently eaten by the animal 
itselff. 

The grubs of some two-winged flics (Muscidee), 
and of wasps, bees, ants, and ichneumon flies, do 
not change their skins like the larvae we have just 
been considering ; but spiders and other allied tribes 
(Arachnidre), though they exhibit no other appear- 
ance of larvae, moult frequently during their growth. 
Goldsmith, amongst other curious mis-statements 
respecting a house-spider which he himself observed, 
asserts tliat it “lived three years, every year it 
changed its skin, and got a new set of legs: I 
have sometimes plucked off a limb, which grew 
* JBonnetj QSuvres, vol. ii. p, 18. *}• J. R. 






again in two or three days” The fact is, that 
few spiders live one year, much less three ; and all 
their changes of skin are gone through in a few 
months, and their acquiring new legs for mutilated 
ones takes some weeks. It is probable, indeed, that 
Goldsmith never thought of ascertaining the iden- 
tity of this spider ; if the whole story be not a mere 
fancy, like his assertion that spiders, “ when they 
walk upon such bodies as are ])erfectly smooth, as 
looking-glass or polished marble, squeeze a little 
sponge which grows near the extremity of their 
claws, and thus ditiusing a glutinous substance, 
adhere to the surface till they make a second 
step*.” Neither spiders nor any insects with 
which we are acquainted can thus produce gum 
from their feet to aid them in walking upon glass, 





thoii^li the house-fly can walk thus by causing a 
vacuum between its feet and the glass, as we shall 
subsetiuently describe at length. But the spider and 
all caterpillars can only climb in such cases by con- 
structing a ladder of ropes, as is represented by 
Rosel in the instance of the goat moth caterpillar. 

One of these caterpillars, which we possessed* * * § , 
made its escape in a manner much more unexpected, 
if not so ingenious, by means of its great muscular 
power, in which, it is not a little singular, that 
insects, as Baron Haller remarks, appear to excel in 
proportion to their dimiriutiveness. Of this we have 
a remarkable example in the common flea, which 
can draw seventy or eighty times its own weight t* 
The muscular strength of this agile creature enables 
it not only to resist the ordinary pressure of the 
fingers in our endeavours to crush it, but to take 
leaps to the distance of two hundred times its own 
length ; which will appear more surprising when we 
consider that a man, to equal the agility of a flea, 
should be able to leap between three and four hun- 
dred yards. The flea, however, is excelled in leap- 
ing by the cuckoo-spit frog-hopper {Teiligonia spu- 
maria, Olivier), which will sometimes leap two or 
three yards, that is, more than 250 times its own 
length 1; as if (to continue the comparison) a man 
of ordinary stature should vault through the air 
to the distance of a cjuarter of a mile. The minute 
observation by which such unexpected facts are dis- 
covered has in all ages been a fertile source of ridi- 
cule for the wits, from the time when Aristophanes 
in his Clouds introduced Socrates measuring the 
leap of a fiea§, up to Peter Pindar’s lampoon on 

* See Insect Architecture, p. 189. 

Haller, Physiol., vol. ix. p. 2. 

X De Geer, Mem., vol. iii. p. 178. 

§ Aristophanes, /S. 






Sir Joseph Banks and the emperor-butterfly. To 
all such flippant wit we have merely to retort the 
question of the Abbe de la Pluche, “ if the Deity 
thought insects worthy of his divine skill in form- 
ing them, ought we to consider them beneath our 
notice* ?” 

MoulFet, in his Theatre of Insectsf, mentions that 
an English mechanic, named Mark, to shew his skill, 
constructed a chain of gold as long as his finger, 
which, together with a lock and key, were dragged 
along by a flea ; and he had heard of another flea 
which could draw a golden chariot, to which it was 
harnessed. Bingley tells us that Mr. Boverich, a 
watchmaker in the Strand, exhibited some years ago 
a little ivory chaise with four wheels, and all its 
proper apparatus, and the figure of a man sitting on 
the box, all of which were drawn by a single flea. 
The same mechanic afterwards constructed a minute 
landau, which opened and shut by springs, with 
the figures of six horses harnessed to it, and of a 
coachman on the box, a dog between his legs, four 
persons inside, two footmen behind it, and a postilion 
riding on one of the fore horses, which were all 
easily dragged along by a single flea | . Gold- 
smith remarks upon these displays of pulician 
strength, that the feats of Samson would not, to a 
community of fleas, appear to be at all miraculous §. 
Eatreille tells us a no less marvellous story of 
another flea, which dragged a silver cannon twenty- 
four times its own weight, mounted on wheels, and 
did not manifest any alarm when this was charged 
with gunpowder and fired olf ||. Professor Bradley, 
of Cambridge, also mentions a remarkable instance 
of insect strength in a stag-beetle {Lucanus Cervus) 

Spectacle de la Nature, i. 3. f Page 275. 

J Auimal Biography, iii. 468. § Animated Nature, iv. 178. 

II Nouv. Diet. d'Hist. Nat. xxviii. 249. 






which he saw carrying a wand a foot and a half long, 
and half an inch thick, and even flying with it to the 
distance of several yards 

It has been remarked, with reference to these facts 
of comparative size and strength, that a cock-chafer 
is six times stronger than a horse; and Linnaeus 
observes, that if an elephant were as strong in 
proportion as a stag-beetle, it would be able to 
tear up rocks and level mountains. The muscular 
power of fish, however, seems to bear a near compa- 
rison with that of insects. “ I have seen,” says Sir 
Gilbert Blane, “ the sword of a sword-fish sticking 
in a plank which it had penetrated from side to side ; 
and when it is considered that the animal was then 
moving through a medium even a thousand times 
more dense than that through which a bird cleaves 
its course at different heights of the atmosphere, and 
that this was performed in the same direction with 
the ship, what a conception do we form of this dis- 
play of muscular strength It should, however, 
be observed, that the muscular power of the sword- 
fish is principally shewn in the rate of swimming, by 
which the animal overtakes the ships, and thus ac- 
quires the momentum which determines the force 
of the blow. We may understand the proximate 
cause of the strength of insects, when we look 
at the prodigious number of their muscles — the 
fleshy belts or ribbons by whose means all animal 
motions are performed. The number of these in- 
struments of motion in the human body is reckoned 
about 5*29 ; but in the caterpillar of the goat-moth, 
Lyonnet counted more than seven times as many : 
in the head, 228 ; in the body, 1647 ; and around 
the intestines, 2186 ; which, after deducting 20, 

* Bradley, Phil. Account, p. 184. 
f Sir Gilbert Blatie, Select Diss. p.281. 

R 







common to the head and gullet, gives a total of 
4061 * 

“ Any lady,"' says Kirby and Spence, “ fond of 
going to be tempted with an exhibition of fine lace, 
would experience an unexpected gratification could 
she be brought to examine the muscles of a caterpillar 
under the microscope; with wonder and delight she 
would survey the innumerable muscular threads that 
in various directions envelope the gullet, stomach, 
and lower intestines of one of those little animals — 
some rumiing longitudinally, others transversely, 
others crossing each other obliquely, so as to form 
a pattern of rhomboids or squares ; others, again, 
surrounding the intestine like so many rings, and 
almost all exhibiting the appearance of being woven, 
and resembling fine lace, — one pattern ornamenting 
one organ ; another, a second ; and another, a 
third 

We put the caterpillar of the goat-moth, to which we 
have before alluded, under a bellglass, which weighed 
nearly half a pound, and of course more than ten 
times the weight of the insect ; yet it raised it up 
with the utmost ease. We then })laced over the 
glass the largest book which we had at hand — 
“ Loudon’s Encyclopaedia of Gardening,” consisting 
of about IhOO j)ages of strong paper, and weighing 
four pounds ; but this did not succeed in preventing 
the escape of the animal, which raised the glass, 
though loaded with tiie book, nearly a hundred 
times its own weight, and made good its exitj. 
The multiplicity of its muscles above enumerated, 
two hundred and thirty-six of which arc situated in 
the legs alone, will enable us to understand how this 
extraordinary feat was performed. Even this power 
of muscle, however, would doubtless have been un- 

^ Lyonnet; Traite Anat. dela Chenille, pp. 108, 584. 
f Intr. iv. 18G. J J. K. 





availing in raising the loaded glass, except in con- 
nexion with tw^o favourable circumstances under 
which the experiment was performed, and which are 
necessary to be borne in mind to render the opera- 
tion perfectly credible : — 1st, that the wedge-like 
form of the caterpillar’s head, in connexion with the 
peculiar shape of the glass, enabled it to lift it ; — 
and 2d, that, one side of the glass resting on the 
table, the insect only bore half the weight of the glass 
and book. 



Caterpillar of Cossus efecaping from under a loaded glass. 

A peculiar toughness of external covering some- 
times supplies the place of this muscular power in 
caterpillars. A singular instance occurs in the 
history of a common downy two-winged fly, with 
grey shoulders and a brown abdomen, (Eristalis 
itiiaxy Fahr.). The grub, which is rat-tailed, lives 
in muddy pools, with the water of which it has some- 
times been taken up by paper-makers, and, though 
subjected to the immense pressure of their nia- 





cflinery, it has survived in a miraculous manner. 
Such is the account oripnally ^iveu by Linneeus *. 
A recent compiler, mistaking Kirby and Spence's very 
apt comparison of this ^rub to a London porter 
nicknamed Leather-coat- J ack, from his being able to 
suffer carriages to drive over him without receiving 
any injury, forthwith fancies the porter to be 
“ another insect, called leather-coat-jack,” which 
“will bear heavy carriage wheels to pass over 
it with impunity.” Since the grub in question 
is ratlier soft, it must be the tough texture of the 
skin which preserves it, as in the similar instance of 
the caterpillar (figured at page 1*25) of the privet 
hawk-moth {Sphinx Li^nstri^, which Bonnet 
squeezed under water till it was as flat and empty as 
the finger of a glove, yet within an hour it became 
plump and lively as if nothing had happened t* 

The instances, however, which we have just re- 
corded are peculiar rather than general, for cater- 
pillars are for the most part very easily bruised and 
otherwise injured. Tliose which are large and heavy, 
therefore, such as the cater])illars of the hawk-moths 
{Sphingidce), have the power of attaching themselves 
very firmly to the spots where they feed and rest by 
means of the numerous hooks of tlieir pro-legs J, so 
that it is almost impossible to detach them from the 
branch to which they are clinging ; and hence col- 
lectors always cut tfie branch itself. All of them 
have the means of breaking their fall by spinning a 
cable of silk, which they uniformly do when acci- 
dentally forced to quit their situation. Their method 
of climbing up this cable again is wmrthy of observa- 
tion, for it differs consiclerably from the maiimuvre 
of spiders, under the same circumstances ; as must be 

* Fauna Suecica, 1799. 
t Bonnet, (Euvres, vol. ii. p. 124. 
t See Insect Architecture , p. 307, right-hand figure. 

r3 



 

obvious when we consider that the spinneret of the 
spider is placed near its tail, while that of the cater- 
pillar is in its mouth. The spider accordingly drops 
head downwards*, but when it wishes to remount 
the line, it turns round, and raising its head, it 
stretches its long tri])le-clawed legs t up the line, 
which it bundles up while it ascends. The cater- 
pillar, on the other hand, having very short legs, with 
only one smooth claw J, would make but slow pro- 
gress in this manner, which it does not attempt ; but 
bending its head downwards till it can grasp the 



Methods used by spiders and caterpillars for ascending: their 
threads. The caterpillars are those of the einperor>nioth 
QSatumia Pavonid), 


* Insect Archit., page 336. f Ibid., p, 367# 
X Ibid., p. 307, left-hand figure. 


 


cord with its hinder pair of feet, and then raisins: its 
head to the perpendicular position again, it thus 
effects one step, and proceeds in the same manner 
till it reaches the top. 

Other caterpillars, when they are disturbed, employ 
a different method of breaking their fall without 
spinning a thread, taking advantage, for this purpose, 
of the long hairs which cover their body. Those 
who have seen a hedge-hog {Ermaceus Europeej/s'), 
when attacked by a dog, roll itself up into a prickly 
ball, will readily conceive the manoeuvre of the cater- 
pillars to which we allude, it being precisely similar. 







Should one of those hairy caterpillars, when feeding 
near the top of a plant, be disturbed or alarmed, it 
instantly coils itself up into a ball and drops among 
the grass. Here it is not only difficult to discover, 
but equally so to lay hold of it ; for the pliancy and 
smoothness of the hair causes it to slip through the 
fingers as readily almost as quicksilver. The grub 
of the museum heciXe {A nthrenus Miiseorum^ Fabr.), 
the pest of our cabinets, affords another example of 
the same circumstance, being covered with tufts of 
diverging hairs which cause it to glide through 
the fingers as if they had been oiled. The six long 
tufts at the tail, which it can erect at pleasure, are 
composed of hairs, which rise from a bulb of the 
form of a halberd, and are curiously jointed with 
cones through their whole extent. The bead wood- 
louse {Armadillo vulgaris, C'uvieh), though not 
furnished with hairs, rolls itself up into a round ball, 
trusting to the fine polish of its back for escape, and 
to its hardness for defence. “ One of our maid-ser- 
vants,’* says Swammerdam, “ once found a number 
of these wood-lice in the garden contracted into 
round balls, and thinking she had found a kind of 
coral beads, she began to put them one after another 
on a thread ; it soon happened that the little crea- 
tures, being obliged to throw off the mask, resumed 
their motions : on seeing which, she was so greatly 
astonished, that she flung down both them and the 
thread in great haste, crying out, and running 
away 

The hairs with which the caterpillars of some of 
our finest native butterflies are furnished, are some- 
what of the nature of bristles or thorns, being hard, 
inflexible, and sharply pointed. This is the case with 
the caterpillars of all the fan-winged butterflies 
{Vanessce), We have alluded to that of the pea- 
* Swammerdam, pt. i. p. 174. 






cock’s eye, which must be conspicuous to birds from 
its dark black colour, prettily dotted with white, aided 
besides by the gregarious habit of feeding in a 
colony of several dozens together; but if a thrush or 
a sparrow pounces upon one of them, the formidable 
spines must present an obstacle somewhat unex- 
pected, perhaps, to the making of a comfortable 
meal. The ass, indeed, seems to relish the piquant 
stimulus of the thorns or thistles, and sheep, goats, 
and deer will browse on the still sharper leaves of 
holly*; but we think none of our soft-billed birds 
would venture on a thorny caterpillar. Madame 
Merian says “that the spines of the caterpillar of 
Urania Leilas are as hard as iron wiret*” Abbot 
tells us that many American caterpillars sting like a 



VVilhei’ingj Cot. Arrangement. Note on Ilex aquifolium. 
f Merian, Inject. Surinam; xxix. 





nettle, and blister the skin when touched ; which is 
also partly exemplified in that of our own ^ipsey moth 
(Jlypogymna dispar) ^ the slender hairs of which 
irritate and inflame the skin. The spines, in some of 
the caterpillars alluded to, are like smooth thorns or 
prickles ; but on others, they are beset, or feathered 
with shorter spines. 

It is probably for some purpose of defence or con- 
cealment that the larvae of several insects form a sin- 
gular covering for themselves of their own excrements, 
which they pile up for that purpose upon their backs. 
This material, as Kirby has observed, is not always so 
offensive as might be supposed, being in some in- 
stances (Cassida maculata et Imatidium Leayamim) 
formed into fine branching filaments, like lichens or 
dried fucus^. Others, however, which Reaumur 
aptly terms Hottentots, do not appear quite so cleanly. 
One of these, rather uncommon, was observed, 
many years ago, by Vallisnieri, which he calls the 
cantharidis of the lily {Crioceris inerdi^era^ Leach), 
and may be found in May on Solomon’ s-seal, and 
other liliaceous plants, which it devours and renders 
unsightly. Under its singular canojiy, it has no 
resemblance to an insect, but looks like an oblong 
ball of chewed grass stuck on the lily. The beetle 
which is produced from the grub is of a fine brownish 
scarlet, and elegantly sculptured with minute dots. 
Another species, more abundant, similar in man- 
ners, and less than half the size of the preceding 
(C. cyandla. Panzer), is of a fine blue colour, with 
similar dottings. The grub of the green tortoise- 
beetle (Cassida equestris, Fabr.), usually found on 
burdocks, is furnished with a more ingenious me- 
chanism for this purpose, consisting of a fork in its 
tail, which it can depress or elevate, so as to carry its 
strange canopy higher or lower, at pleasure. Like 
? Linn, Trans, iii. lO. 






the two preceding insects, this grub is also most unex- 
pectedly transformed into a very pretty green beetle, 
of the form of a tortoise, the wing-cases of which 
project all round as a covering for the legs. 






A, Cassida eqiiestris. B, its jjrub magnified to shew its anal 
forks. C, the same with its canopy of excrements. 

The larva of the golden-eyed fly {Chrysopa perla, 
Leach), whose very singular eggs we formerly men- 
tioned, covers itself with the fragments of the aphides 
which it has devoured, — a moving sepulchre of dry 
bones 

A very familiar instance of this mode of defence 
occurs in the larva of the cuckoo-spit frog-hopper 
{Tettigoiiia spvmaria, Olivier), so frequently seen 
in Runimer on willows, rose-trees, lychnis, grass, and 
other plants. This creature is of an exceedingly soft 
structure ; and it is probably, therefore, as a protection 
from the sun, that it throws up all around it the little 
tuft of white froth, called, from a popular mistake, 
cuckco-s])it. The peifect insect is covered with hard 
wing-cases, of a brown colour, with a white spot and 
pale double band. 

It would appear that the hair, which we have de- 
scribed above as covering the bodies of some cater- 
pillars, is paitly intended by nature to defend them 
Ifoni cold during the winter. The truth of this 
? R^aumuF;^ hi, 380 &c. 







amounts almost to demonstration, from a circumstance 
discovered respecting* ants by the younger Huber. 
“ The larvae of some ants,” says he, “ pass the 
winter heaped up in the lowermost floor of their 
dwelling. I have found, at this period, very small 
larva? in the nests inhabited by the yellow ant {For- 
mica Jlavd), the field ant {F, ccespiium ?), and some 
other species. Those that are to pass the winter in 
this state are covered with hair, which is not the case 
in summer ; affording another proof of that Provi- 
dence at which naturalists are struck at every step^.” 
The same growth of a warmer clothing for the 
winter is well knowui to occur among quadrupeds, 
particularly those which inhabit the higher northern 
atitudes f. 

Upon the same principle, a number of the cater- 
pillars which are hatched late in autumn, and are 
destined to live over winter, are provided with a 
warm clothing of hair or down. This is the case 
even with most of those which construct for them- 

*** M. P. Huber on Ants, p. 82. 
f See MenagerieS; vol. i.; p. 50. 





selves a snu^ nest of silk, such as the caterpillars of 
the brown-tail moth (Porthesia auriflya), and those 
of the mallow butterfly (Hesperia malvm). But there 
are others which are provided with no extraneous 
coverin*^, farther than the occasional shelter they 
may obtain by crawling under withered leaves, the 
copings of w^alls, or the bend of a branch. Among 
these some are thickly covered with hair, of which 
we have an instance in the caterpillar of the great 
tiger moth (Arctia caja, Stephens), whose mode of 
rolling itself up into a ball we have already described ; 
but a more remarkable example occurs in the cater- 
pillar of the drinker moth (Odo/ieslUi potatoria^ 
Germar.), whose very feet are covered with fine 
shaggy down. It is this, no doubt, which preserves 
it from becoming torpid during winter; and as it 
feeds on grass, it can alw^ays procure food during 
the severest weather. When a fine sunny day chances 
to break in upon the gloom of winter, this pretty 
insect may be often seen stretched at its full length 
on a low twig, or the withered stem of a nettle, 
basking in the sunsliine with apparent delight. We 
kept one of them in our study during the winter of 
1827-8 ; and it continued to feed sparingly till Febru- 
ary, when, owing to neglect, it unfortunately died*. 

There are several other caterpillars, however, 
which live during the winter, in a no less exposed 
manner, without being provided with any covering of 
hair ; though some of these, we may remark, do not 
continue to feed, but become w^holly or partially tor- 
pid, such as the caterpillar of the magpie moth 
(Abraxas grossulariata). Of this species we have 
observed numbers, about as thick as a crow-quill, 
remaining in the same position for weeks together, and 
never moving, except when some very considerable 
change of temperature, either colder or hotter, took 
place. They do not seem to select the warmest places 
? J. R, 





within their choice, bein^ usually found on an exposed 
currant branch, or under the upper cross-bar of a 
paling*. We observed one, during several months of 
the winter of 1828-9, stationary under the lintel of a 
door, where a continual current of air must have ren- 
dered it exceedingly cold. We have endeavoured 
to rouse some of these from their semi-torpidity by 
keeping them in a warm room ; but though they 
would make a few lethargic and unwilling move- 
ments, none of them would eat, and the change 
always proved fatal*. 

We might be led from this instance to conclude 
that caterpillars, not covered with hair, become tor- 
pid during winter; but such general conclusions 



a, Young caterpillar of the drinher, 6, the same full grown, 
c, smooth caterpillar of the angle shades, (f, the moth of the 

tame. 

? J.R. 




from particular facts seldom accord with actual 
nature, and ought never to be indulged in by natural- 
ists who study accuracy. Another caterpillar, not 
uncommon in gardens, on the hollyhock and other 
plants, would at once disprove such an inference: 
we allude to that of the angle shades (Phlo^ophora 
7neticnlosa, Ochsrnheimeu). This caterpillar, which 
is exceedingly smooth, and is remarkable for chang- 
ing in its last moult from a clear green to a yellow- 
ish brown, we have found during the whole winter in 
the folds of the fresh leaves of hollyhocks, cabbage- 
lettuce, savoys, &c., quite lively, and feeding in open 
weather by no means sparingly. Its defence from 
cold may perhaps consist in a superabundant supply 
of fat, which we may infer that it possesses from the 
soft flabby aspect. It is this circumstance which seems 
to protect whales from the polar cold ; as well as 
bears during their torpidity. 

Some caterpillars seem to have no less power of 
resisting severe cold than eggs ; as authentic in- 
stances are recorded of their revival after being frozen 
stitf, — a circumstance also rej)orled of some serpents 
in North America Dr. Lister in this way revived 
caterpillars frozen so hard as to chink like stones 
when thrown into a glassf ; and Mr, Stickney ex- 
posed some grubs of a common crane-fly {Tipvla 
oleracea, Linn.) to a severe frost, till they were con- 
gealed into masses of ice, yet several of them sur- 
vived];. Reaumur, however, was unsuccessful in 
similar experiments on the gregarious moth of the 
fir {Cnethocampa Piiyocampa^ Stephens), so cele- 
brated among the ancients as a poison §; for none of 
them survived a cold of 2" below zero, Fahr., by 
which they were frozen to ice||. 

* John Hunter, Obs. on Anim.Econ. p. 99. 

Goedart, Ins>crt. p. 79. ] Kirby and Speme, Intr. ii. p.453. 

§ Pill). Hist. Nat. 38, 9. || Mem. ii. 





Voracity of Caterpillars, Grubs, and Maggots. 


Insects, in the early stag;c of their existence, may 
be compared to an Indian hunter, who issues from 
his hut, as they do from the cfrs;, with a keen 
appetite. As soon as he is successful in finding 
game, he gorges himself till he can eat no more, 
and then laying him down to sleep, only bestirs 
himself again to go through a similar process of 
gorging and sleeping; just so the larvie of insects 
doze away a day or more when casting their skins, 
and then make up for their long fast by eating with 
scarcely a pause. Professor Bradley calculates 
(though upon data somewhat questionable) that a 
pair of sparrows carry to their young about three 
thousand caterpillars in a week ^ ; but this is nothing 
when compared with the voracity of caterpillars. Of 
the latter we have more accurate calculations than that 
of Bradley, who multiplied the number of caterpillars 
which he observed taken in one hour by the hours of 
sunlight in a week. Redi ascertained by experiment 
that the maggot of the common blow-fly {Musca car- 
naria) becomes from 140 to 200 times heavier within 
twenty-four hours f ; and the culthators of silk- worms 
know the exact quantities of leaves which their broods 
devour. “ The result,^' .says Count Dandolo, “ of 
the most exact calculations is, tliat the quantity of 
leaves drawn from the tree employed for each ounce 
of eggs amounts to 1609 lbs. 8 oz., divided in the 
following manner — 

? Account of the Works of Nature. 

f Esperienze de Inselii, p. 23. 






First age . . 
Second age 
Third age . 
Fourth age 
Fiftli age . . 


Sorted leaves. Refuse. 

lbs. oz. lbs. oz. 
.60 18 
.. 18 0 3 0 

.. GO 0 9 0 

..180 0 27 0 

..1098 0 102 0 


Per ounce of eggs of sorted leaves . . . .lbs. 1 362 0 1 42 8 

Refuse 142 8 

Lost from the lea\es by evaporation, &c.. . 105 0 

1G09 8 


He adds to this curious table, that from the 1362 lbs. 
of sorted leaves 2 :iven to the caterpillars, it is neces- 
sary to deduct 155 lbs. 7 oz. 4 drs. of litter, consist- 
injr of fragments of uneaten leaves, stalks, fruit, &c., 
and consequently that they actually devour only 1206 
lbs. 4 oz. 4 drs. It is necessary also to mention that 
of this quantity 745 lbs. 8 oz. of diin^ are carried from 
the hurdles; and consequently there is only dijrested 
771 lbs. 7 oz. 4 drs. of pure leaves, which produce 
120 lbs. of silk cocoons, — cciviup: a loss by evaporation 
from the worms in and vapour of 406 lbs. 4 oz., 
nearly three parts of this loss occurring^ iji the six last 
days of the tilth age 'J'hese deductions, however, 
do not aliect the amount eaten by the caterpillars 
produced from 1 oz. of eggs, which is upwards of 
1200 lbs. A single silk-worm, as we before men- 
tioned, consumes within thirty days about 60,000 
times its primitive weight. 

When we take these facts into consideration, we 
need not be surprised at the extensive ravages com- 
mitted by other caterpillars, many of which are much 
larger than the silk-worm, and all of them produced 
in broods of considerable numbers. Mr. Stephens, 
in his valuable catalogue of British insects, a work of 


? Count Dandolo’s Art of rearing Silk-Worms, p. 322-24, 
Eng. Transl. 




very extraordinary accuracy, enumerates nearly 2000 
species of native moths and butterflies ; and as the 
females of these are for the most part very prolific, we 
have little reason to be surprised at the occasional 
extent of their depredations. The 2000 species just 
mentioned are, besides, not more than a fifth of our 
native insects, most of the gTu])s and maggots of 
which are exceedingly voracious and destructive. 

It appears to be indispensable for most insects to 
feed copiously during their larva state, in order to 
supply a store of nutriment for their subsequent 
changes ; for many of them eat nothing, and most of 
them little, after they have been transformed into pu- 
pae and perfect insects. What is no less wonderful, a 
corresponding change takes place in the internal 
formation of their organs of digestion. A cater- 
pillar will, as we have seen, devour in a month 
60,000 times its own weight of leaves, while the 
moth or the butterfly into which it is afterw^ards trans- 
formed may not sip a thousandth part of its weight 
of honey during its whole existence. Now, in the 
caterpillar, nature has provided a most capacious sto- 
mach, which, indeed, fills a very large portion of its 
body ; but in the butterfly the stomach is diminished 
to a thread. By a series of minute dissections, 
conducted with great .skill, Heroldt traced these 
changes, as they successively occur, from the cater- 
pillar to the butterfly. In the caterjnllar he found 
the gullet, the honey stomach, the true stomach, and 
the intestines capacious. Two dajs after its first 
change all these are visibly diminished, as well as the 
silk reservoirs, which, in a chrysalis eight days old, 
have wholly disappeared ; while the base of the gullet 
is dilated into a crop, and the stomach still more con- 
tracted into a spindle form. When near its change 
into the perfect insect the gullet is jjftill more drawn 
out, while the crop, still small, is n^w on one side of 





View of tbe npper side. 



A, B,C, The »8o- 
pliagus Hnd its ap* 
pendages. 

D, K, The sto- 
mach; — a pair of 
muscles wind spi- 
rally round it, and 
Ly their contraction 
squeeze the digested 
food into the intes- 
tines. 

K, F, The first 
large intestine. F, 

G, the second. G, 

H, the third. 

I, I, The six small 
intestines. 


View of the under side. 



Viscera of the Cossns. 







A, A, Caterpillar of Vanessa urticae mag^nifiecl. a — ft, the 
intestines of the same, a, the gullet, h h h b, pulmonary tubes, 
cc, ligament of the stomach, d rf (2d, transparent rings of the 
.atme. k f, small intestines. //, their origin, y gh/i^ their wind- 
ings. t ft, the rectum. 






the gullet ; and in the butterfly is enlarged into a 
honey stomach. 



Intestinal canals of the caterpillar, pnpa, and butterfly.i 

1. Caterpillar, a, the ttsophagiis. b, the stonmcb, e rf, the 

two large intestines. 

2. Pupa /mo days old. o, the oesophagus. the stomach, ccf, 

H e two large intestines. 

3. Pupa dajs old. o, dilation of the oesophagus, forming 

the crop or honvy^stomat //• 

4. rn])a iniuiediatcly before its transformation, o, the honey- 

sloiiiaeh become a lateral appendage ot the oesophagus. 6, 

tlie stomach, c d, the laige intestines. 

5. Butterfly, o, honey-stoinach. h, the digesting stomach, c'd, 
the large intestines, become very long. 

It is remarkable that in men of such extraordinary 
appetite as amounts to a di.sease {Bviimia, Cullen), 
the natural capacity of the stomach, which, accord- 
ing to Blumenbach, contains about three pints*, 
is very much enlarged. This was peculiarly the 
case with Tarare, an Italian juggler, who, from swal- 
lowing flints, whole baskets of fruit, &c., seems 
to have enlarged the capacity of his stomach so as 
to render his appetite insatiable. M. Tessicr, of the 
Infirmary at Versailles, where Tarare died of con- 
sumption, found on examination that his stomach 
? Blumenbach, Physiol., s. xxiii. 





was prodigiously distendfed*. The same must have 
been the case with the French prisoner at Liverpool, 
who, on the testimony of Dr. Cochrane, consumed, 
in one day, sixteen pounds of raw meat and tallow 
candles, besides five bottles of porter 

The mandibles of caterpillars, which do not act 
perpendicularly like the jaws of quadrupeds, but ho- 
rizontally, are for the most part very sharp and stron*^, 
bein^ of a hard, horny substance, and moved by 
powerful muscles. They are, fbr the most part, 
slightly bent in the form of a reaping-hook ; having 
the concavity indented with tooth-shaped projections, 
formed out of the substance of the jaw, and not socketed 
as the teeth of quadrupeds. These are made to meet 
like the blades of a pair of pincers ; and in some cases 
they both chop and grind the I'ood J. Besides these 
there is a pair of jaws (maxi Her) placed on each side 
of the middle portion of the under lip; and from their 
being of a softer substance they seem to be more for 
the purpose of retaining the food, than for mastication. 
This formidable apparatus for masticating {Trophi) 
is well ad jpted to supply the large demands of the 
capacious stomachs ot larva'; and when we consider 
that all of them are employed in eating at least for 
ten or twelve hours in the day, and a great number 
during the night, we need not wonder at their ex- 
tensive ravages upon the substances on which they 
feed. It may be interesting, however, to give a few 
examples of their destructiveness ; and w ith this v iew 
it will be convenient to consider them under the three 
popular names of caterpillars, grubs, and maggots. 

Caterpillars. 

The ravages of caterpillars are amongst the most 

* M. Percy in Rapport d'institute Nalionelle. 

T Med. and Phys. Journ,, iii.^ 209. X Cuvier, Anat, Coin., ili., 322. 






conspicuous of insect depredations, in consequence 
of their beinp^ committed upon the leaves of trees, 
bushes, and plants, which are often stripped as bare 
as in winter. E\en tlie smaller sorts of caterpillars 
become, from their multiplicity, sometimes as destruc- 
tive as those which are of considerable magnitude. 
During the summer of 1 827 we were told that an extra- 
ordinary bli^rjithiid suddenly destroyed the leaves of all 
the trees in Oak of Honour Wood, Kent. On going 
thither, we Ibund the report had been little exagge- 
rated ; for though it was “ in the leafy month of 
June,” there was scarcely a leaf to be seen on the 
oak-trees, which constitute the greater portion of the 
wood. But we were rather surprised when we dis- 
covered, on examination, that this extensive destruc- 
tion had been effected by one of the small solitary 
leaf-rollers (Tortrix I'iridana^ Haworth) ^ ; for one 
of this sort seldom consumes more than four or five 
leaves, ii* so much, during its existence. The num- 
ber, therefore, of these caterpillars must have been 
almost beyond conception ; and that of the moths, 
the previous year, must also have been very great: 
for the mother moth only lays from fifty to a hundred 
eggs, which are glued to an oak branch, and remain 
during the winter. It is remarkable that in this 
wood during the two following summers these cater- 
pillars did not abound t- 

Instances like this, however, from solitary species, 
are, we believe, less common than those of the ravages 
of gregarious caterpillars. In 1826, colonies of the 
buff-tip {Fygara byctphala, Ochsenheim.) were in 
some parts of the country very abundant. We re- 
marked them particularly at Harrow-on-the-Hill, and 
at Compton-Basset in Wiltshire. From their feeding 
in company, they strip a tree, branch after branch, 

* See figures of this caterpillar and its moth in “ Insect Archi- 
tecture,” pp. 162-3. t J* Ik 





scarcely leaving the fragment of a leaf, till a great 
portion of it is completely bare. Some of the magni- 
ficent beeches in Compton Park, from this cause, ap- 
peared with the one-half of their branches leafless 
and naked, while the other half was untouched. 
Besides the beech, these caterpillars feed on the oak, 
the lime, the hazel, the elm, and the willow. When 
newly hatched they may be readily discovered, from 
their singular manner of marshalling themselves, like 
a file of soldiers, on a single leaf, only eating it half 
through ; and in their more advanced stage, their 
gaudy stripes of yellow and black render them very 
conspicuous on the branches which they have nearly 
stripped bare. The cuckoo feeds as greedily upon 
them as they do on leaves , and may be seen early in 



Ravages of the bnflf-tip caterpillar {Pi/geera bucephala). fl, the 
fall'grovrn caterpillar, b, the moth, c c, a line of young cater* 
pillars, advancing along a leaf and devouring it half through as 
they march, d, the eggs. 




the morning perched in the midst of their colonies, 
and devouring them by dozens*. 

Those caterpillars which feed upon fruit-trees and 
hedge shrubs are still more likely to attract attention ; 
since, when any of these are abundant, it is scarcely 
possible to stir out of doors without observing them. 
Thus, in the suburbs of London, in the summer of 
1S29, not only the orchards and gardens, but every 
hedge, swarmed with the lackey caterpillars {Clisio- 
campa neustria)^ which are what naturalists term 
polypha^om feeders, that is, they do not confine them- 
selves to a particular sort of tree, but relish a great 
number. The hawthorn, the black thorn, and the 
oak, however, seem to be most to their taste ; while 
they are rare on the willow, and we have never ob- 
served them on the poplar, or the elder. 

Another of what may be appropriately termed 
the encamping caterpillars, of a much smaller size, 
and of a different genus, is the small ermine {Ypo- 
nomeuta padetla), which does not, besides, feed quite 
so indiscriminately ; but when the bird-cherry (Pru- 
nus padus), its peculiar food, is not to be had, it 
will put up with black thorn, phim-tree, hawthorn, 
and almost any sort of orchard fruit-tree. With re- 
spect to such caterpillars as feed on different plants, 
Reaumur and De Geer make the singular remark, 
that in most cases they would only eat the sort of 
plant upon which they were originally hatched f. 
We verified this, in the case of the caterpillar in ques- 
tion, upon two different nests which we took, in 1806, 
from the bird-cherry at Crawfordland, in Ayrshire. 
Upon bringing these to Kilmarnock, we could not 
readily supply them with the leaves of this tree ; and 
having then only a slight acquaintance with the ha- 
bits of' insects, and imagining they would eat any 
sort of leaf, we tried them with almost every thing 
* J. R. 1 1^® Geer, Mem. i. 3 1 9. 

T 






green in the vicinity of the town ; but they refused to 
touch any which we offered them. After they had 
fasted several days, we at length procured some fresh 
branches of the bird-cherry, with which they gorged 
themselves so that most of them died. Last sum- 
mer (1829) w e again tried a colony of these cater- 
pillars, found on a seedling plum-tree at Lee, in 
Kent, with black thorn, hawthorn, and many other 
leaves, and even with those of the bird-cherry; but 
they would touch nothing except the seedling plum, 
refusing the grafted varieties^. 



Encampment of the caterpillar of the small ermine (Yponomeuta 
padclla) on the Siberian crab. 

A circumstance not a little remarkable in so very 
nice a feeder is, that in some cases the mother moth 
will deposit her eggs upon trees not of indigenous 
growth, and not even of the same genus with her 


 

Rfiual favourites. Thus, in 1825, the cherry-apple, 
or Siberian crab (Pyrw.? y)r7^7z?yo/7*«, Willdenow), 
so commonly ^rown in the suburbs of London, 
swarmed with them. On a single tree at Islington, 
we counted above twenty nests, each of which would 
contain from fifty to a hundred caterpillars ; and 
though these do not grow thicker than a crow-quill, 
so many of them scarcely left a leaf undevoured, and, 
of course, the fruit, which shewed abundantly in 
spring, never came to maturity. The summer fol- 
lowing they were still more abundant on the haw- 
thorn hedges, particularly near the Thames, by Bat- 
tersea and Richmond. Since tlien we have only seen 
them sparingly ; and last summer we could only find 
the single nest upon which we tried the preceding 
experiment*. This present spring (1830) they have 
again appeared in millions on the hedges. 

R(^aumur says that in some years they were ex- 
ceedingly destructive to his a]>ple-trees, though they 
did not touch his pears, plums, or apricots f, which 
agrees precisely with our own remarks. We are well 
aware that there are several species of the small er- 
mines, all similar in manners, such as the one which 
feeds on the spindle-tree, {Euonymiis), and pro- 
duces the prettiest moth of the genus {Yponomeuta 
Euonymella) ; hut our preceding remarks all apply 
to one species. 

In 1829 we remarked a very extraordinary num- 
ber of webs of some similar caterpillar, of which we 
did not ascertain the species, on the willows in Hol- 
land and the Netherlands, from Amsterdam to 
Ostend. In some districts, particularly near Bruges 
and Rotterdam, the leaves were literally stripped 
from whole rows of trees ; while other rows, at no 
considerable distance, were entirely tree from their 
ravages. A foreign naturalist, quoted by Harris in 
* J. R. t Reaumur, Mem. ii. 198. 




his Aurelian, says, that the caterpillar of the Camber- 
well beauty {Vanessa Antiopa), which feeds grega- 
riously on the willow, sometimes defoliates the trees 
of a whole district in the Low Countries ; but the 
ravages observed by us were evidently made by the 
caterpillars of some small moth*. 

None of the preceding details, however, appear so 
striking as what is recorded of the brown-tail moth 
(Porthesia avriflva)^ by Mr. W. Curtis f, whose 
multitudinous colonies spread great alarm over the 
country in the summer of 1782. This alarm was much 
increased by the exaggeration and ignorant details 
which found their way into the newspapers. The ac- 
tual numbers of these caterpillars must have been im- 
mense, since Curtis says, “ in many of the parishes 
near London subscriptions have been opened, and 
the poor people employed to cut off the webs| at one 
shilling per bushel, which have been burnt under the 
inspection of the churcliwardens, overseers, or beadle 
of the parish : at the first onset of this business four- 
score bushels, as I was most credibly informed, were 
collected in one day in the parish of Clapham.” 

It is not, therefore, very much to be wondered at, 
that the ignorant, who are so j>rone to become the 
victim of groundless fears, should have taken serious 
alarm on having so unusual a phenomenon forced 
upon their attention. Some alarmists accordingly 
asserted that the caterpillars “ were the usual presage 
of the plague ; ” and others that they not only pre- 
saged it, but woidd actually cause it, for “ their 
numbers were great enough to render the air pesti- 
lential,’^ while, to add to the mischief, “ they would 
destroy every kind of vegetation, and starve the cattle 
in the fields.” “ Almost every one,” adds Curtis, 

* J. R. 

f Curtis, Hist, of Brown-iail Moth, 4to. London, 1782. 

J See Insect Architecture, page 330, for a figure of the nest. 





“ i^orant of their history, was under the ^atest 
apprehensions concerning them ; so that even prayers 
were offered up in some churches to deliver the 
country from the apprehended approaching cala- 
mity/’ 

It seems to have been either the same catei*pillar, or 
one very nearly allied to it, probably that of the 
golden-tail {PorthesiaChrysorrh(ea)^vjh\ch. in 1731-2, 
produced a similar alarm in France. Reaumur, on 
going from Paris to Tours, in September 1730, Ibund 
every oak, great and small, literally swarming with 
them, and their leaves parched and brown as if some 
burning wind had passed over them ; for when newly 
hatched, like the young bufl-tips, they only eat one 
of the membranes of* the leaf, and of course the other 
withers away. These infant legions, under the shelter 
of their warm nests*, survived the winter in such 
numbers, that they threatened the destruction not 
only of the fruit-trees, but of the h>rests, — every tree, 
as Reaumur says, being over-run with them. The 
Parliament of Paris thought that ravages so widely 
extended loudly called for their interference, and 
they accordingly issued an edict, to compel the people 
to uncaterpillar {decheniller) the trees ; which Reau- 
mur ridiculed as impracticable, at least in the forests. 
About the middle of May, .liowever, ^ succession of 
cold rains produced so much mortality among the 
caterpillars, that the people were ha]>pily released 
from the edict ; for it soon became difficult to find a 
single individual of the species t- In the same way the 
cold rains, during the summer of 1 829, seem to have 
nearly annihilated the lackeys, which in the early part 
of the summer, swarmed on every hedge around 
London +. The ignorance displayed in France at the 
time in question, was not inferior to that recorded by 

* See Insect Architecture, p.331, for a figure. 

t Reaumur, ii.p. 137. - J Insect Architecture, p. 329. 




Curtis; for the French journalists ffravely asserted 
that part of the caterpillars were produced by spiders ; 
and that these spiders, and not the caterpillars, con- 
structed the webs of the slime of snails, which they 
were said to have been seen collecting for the pur- 
pose ! “ Verily,^’ exclaims Reaumur, “ there is 

more ignorance in our age than one might believe.” 

It is justly remarked by Curtis, that the caterpillar of 
the brown-tail moth is not so limited a feeder as some, 
nor so indiscriminate as others ; but that it always 
confines itself to trees or shrubs, and is never found 
on herbaceous plants, whose low growth would seldom 
supply a suitable foundation for its web. Hence the 
absurdity of supposing it would attack the herbage 
of the field, and produce a famine among cattle. 
Curtis says, it is found on the “ hawthorn most plen- 
tifully, oak the same, elm very plentifully, most fruit- 
trees the same, black thorn plentifully, rose-trees the 
same, bramble the same, on the willow and poplar 
scarce. None have been noticed on the elder, walnut, 
ash, fir, or herbaceous plants. With respect to fruit- 
trees the injuries they sustain are most serious, as, in 
destroying the blossoms as yet in the bud, they also 
destroy the fruit in embryo ; the owners of orchards, 
therefore, have great reason to be alarmed.” 

The suddrti appearance of great numbers of these 
caterpillars in particular years, and their scarcity in 
others, is in some degree explained by a fact stated 
by Mr. Salisbury. “ A gentleman of Chelsea,” he 
says, “ has informed me that he once took a nest 
of moths and bred them; that some of the eggs 
came the first year, some the second, and others of 
the same nest did not hatch till the third season *.” 
We reared, during 1829, several nests both of 
the brown-tails and of the golden-tails, and a num- 
ber of the females deposited their eggs in our nurse- 
? Salisbury, Hints on Orchards, p. 53, 





caffes ; but, contrary to the experiment just quoted, 
all of these were hatched during the same autumn*. 
The diflerence of temperature and moisture in par- 
ticular seasons may produce this diversity. 

An alarm, similar to those we have recorded, was 
produced in France in 1735 by the green striped 
caterpillars of a moth very common in Britain, called 
by collectors, from a mark on its upper wings, the Y, or 
more properly the 7 moth (Plvsia Gamma^ Ochs.). 
Though ranked in some classifications amongst the 
nocturnal moths, it flies chiefly by day, and maybe seen 
in Battersea-fields, or other moist meadows, flitting 
from herb to herb and flower to flower, in short and 
low flights; for it seldom soars higher than the tallest 
grass-stem, or the crimson flower-heads of the knap- 
weed, upon whose honey it sometimes regales, re- 
maining on the wing all the while it is sipping it. 
During the cold rainy summer of 1829 it was almost 
the only moth which appeared plentiful f. At least 
two broods seem to be produced during the season; 
which may account for its being found from May till 
the setting-in of the winter frosts. 

Notwithstanding it being so plentiful, however, 
we have not heard of its having ever been so destruc- 
tive here as in France, where, as usual, the most 
improbable causes were assigned for- its increase. 
“ In some places,” says Reaumur, “ they assured 
me they had seen an old soldier throw the spell ; and 
in other places an ugly and mischievous old woman 
had wrought all the evil J.” These supposed super- 
natural agents, however, must have been either very 
numerous or very active to fill, not only the gardens, 
but every field, with legions of those caterpillars, 
which devoured almost every green thing, and left 
only the stalksas monuments of their devastation. The 
alarm proceeded farther, for it began to be whispered 
? J. R. t R* t Reaumur, ii. 336. 


 


that they were poisonous ; and many were in conse- 
quence afraid to touch soups or salads. Reaumur 
thought it incumbent on him to refute this notion at 
some length; but we cannot accept his doctrine as 
very palatable, when he tells us that few dishes of soup 
or salad arc ever prepared without containing cater- 
pillars, and yet all the world are not poisoned there- 
by, any more than by eating oysters or viper broth. 
*He endeavoured also to account by calculation for 
their excess, ii'om the data of the female moth lay- 
ing about four hundred eggs. Now, if there were 
only twenty caterpillars distributed in a garden, and 
all lived through the winter, and became moths in 
the succeeding May, the eggs laid by these, if all 
fertile, would produce 800,000, a number much more 
than sufficient to efiect great destruction^. Did 
*ot Providence, therefore, put causes in operation to 



Transformations of the y moth (^Plusia Gamrud). a, the egg, 
rreatly magnified, on a morsel of leaf. 6, the egg on a leaf, na^ 
Ural size, c, the larva, d, the pupa, e, the moth. 


? R6aumur^ ii. 337. 


 

keep them in due bounds, the caterpillars of this 
moth alone, leaving out of consideration the 2000 
other British species, would soon destroy more than 
half of our vegetation. 

The caterpillar just mentioned, amongst other pot- 
herbs attacks coleworts and cabbage ; and may 
sometimes be found there along with another, not 
uncommon, but seldom very destructive, called by col- 
lectors the burnished brass (Plvsia chrysitis), which 
differs little from the caterpillar of the 7 moth, except 
in being of a brighter green. Another, called the old 
gentlewoman {Mamestra brassic<B, Treitsche), is so 
destructive to cabbages in Germany, that the gar- 
deners gather whole baskets full and bury them ; 
but as ROsel remarks, they might as well endeavour 
to kill a crab by covering it with sea-water, for it 
is natural to them to burrow under ground when 
they change into chrysalides We have seen this 
caterpillar, as well as that of the brown-eye {Mames- 
ira oleraced), do considerable damage in Wiltshire, 
but nothing to what is reported of it in Germany. 

The leaves of cabbages, cauliflower, brocoli, cole- 
worts, and turnips, are frequently devoured to a 
more considerable extent by the sub- gregarious cater- 
pillars of the white butterflies (Po/itia brassicee, P. 
7iapi, &c.) From the great multiplicity of the but- 
terflies, indeed, and from there being two broods in 
the year, we have reason to Monder that their 
ravages are not more extensive. But we have re- 
marked, that they seem more partial to wild than 
cultivated plants ; for we have seen, near Islington, 
the oleraceous weeds, such as rape {Brassica vopvs)^ 
over-run with them in the very same fields with cul- 
tivated cabbages, which were not touched t ; so that 
the caterpillars are not always so injurious as we 
might at first suppose, since in this case they tend to 
* Rbsel, liiseckten, i. iv, 170, f J K. 




keep down the weeds, while the birds and the 
ichneumon flies keep them in check by making prey 
of them. 

The gregarious caterpillars of an allied species, 
called the black-veined white butterfly (Pieri$ 
Crateegi^ Stephens), is in some seasons and districts 
no less destructive to orchards and hawthorn hedges 
than the preceding ones are to the kitchen -garden. 
Salisbury, who wrote at Chelsea in 1815, says it 
“ commits great destruction every spring, and not 
only to the apple-trees, but other kinds of fruits*/^ 
Mr. Stephens, writing in 1827, says, “ in June 1810, 
I saw it in plenty at Coombe Wood, and in the fol- 
lowing year I captured several at Muswell-hill, since 
which time I have not seen any at large t*’’ Mr. 
Haworth also says, “ it has not of late years been 
seen at Chelsea, where it formerly abounded.’’ We 
have never met with it at all. According to Salisbury 
the female butterfly lays her eggs near the extremity 
of an old rather than a young branch, and covers 
them with a coating of gluten, which is both imper- 
vious to moisture and impenetrable (this we doubt) 
to the bills of birds. “ In this state,” he adds, “ we 
have instances of their remaining without losing 
their vitality for several years, until a favourable oppor- 
tunity of their being brought into existence arrives*.” 
The caterpillars, which are at first black and hairy, 
live in common in a silken tent. They become sub- 
sequently striped with reddish brown, and disperse 
over the trees. This caterpillar and its butterfly 
are figured in a subsequent page. 

Our gooseberry and red-currant bushes are very 
frequently despoiled of their leaves, both by the 
speckled caterpillar of the magpie moth {Abraxas 
grossiilarlata), and by what Reaumur terms the 

* Hints on Orchards, p. 56. f Illustrations,!. Hauslellata, 27. 

J Hints on Orchards, p. 57. 






pseudo-caterpillars of one of the saw-flies (Nematus 
Ribesii, Stephens). The latter insect has a flat 
yellow body and four pellucid wings, the two outer 
ones marked with brown on the edge. In April it issues 
from the pupa, which has lain under ground from 
the preceding September. The female of the goose- 
berry saw-fly does not, like some of the family, cut a 
groove in the branch to deposit her eggs ; — “ of 
what use, then,” asks Reaumur, “ is her ovipositor 
saw*?” In order to satisfy himself on this point, he 
introduced a pair of the flies under a bell-glass along 
with a branch bent from a red-currant bush, that he 
might watch the process. The female immediately 
perambulated the leaves in search of a place suited to 
her purpose, and passing under a leaf began to lay, 



a a a, Saw-6y of the ffooseberry (Nemafu<i Pffccsii, Stkhhkvs). 
J, its effffs on the nerviireg of a leaf, d d, the caterpillars eating, 
c, one rolled up. /, one extended. 


? See Insect Architecture, chap.vii. fora description of-thir 
curious instrument. 





depositing six eggs within a quarter of an hour. 
Each time she placed herself as if she wished to cut 
into the leaf with her saw; but, upon taking out 
the leaf, the eggs appeared rather projecting than 
lodged in its substance. They adhered so firmly, 
however, that they could not be detached without 
crushing them. He could not discover any groove * ; 
but we think it likely that a minute cut is made in 
the exterior membrane of the leaf, the edges of which 
grasp and hold firm the part of the egg which is 
thrust into it by the insect. Be this as it may, the 
caterpillars are hatched in two or three weeks ; and 
they feed in company till after midsummer, frequently 
stripping both the leaves and fruit of an extensive 
plantation. The caterpillar has six legs and sixteen 
prolegs, and is of a green colour mixed with yellow, 
and covered with minute black dots raised like sha- 
green. In its last skin it loses the black dots and 
becomes smooth and yellowish white. The Caledo- 
nian Horticultural Society have published a number 
of plans for destroying these caterpillars. 

An allied species of saw-fly {Nematus CapretB, 
Stephens) frequently becomes extensively destruc- 
tive to several species of willow, sallow, and osier. 
It is so like that of the gooseberry and that of the 
willow {Nematus saucin') , which is not British, that it 
has been confounded with these by Pabricius, Stew- 
art, Gmelin, and other authors. In the summer of 
1828, we observed a considerable group of young 
standards of the golden osier {Salix vitellina)^ in a 
nursery at Lewisham, rendered quite leafless by these 
caterpillars ; which, when feeding, throw themselves 
into singular postures by holding only with their 
fore feet. The fly appears in spring, and places its 
eggs in a round patch on the back of the leaf, and 
not along the nervures, like the gooseberry saw fly. 

Reaumur^ V, 125. 





During the three last summers, we also remarked 
that the alders (^Alnus glutinosd) along the banks of 
the Ravensbourne, in Kent, were extensively stripped 
of their leaves by a saw-fly caterpillar, very like the 
preceding, but of a larger size*. It appears to be 
the same as one figured by RtSaumurt {Selandria 
Alni? Stephens). 



a, Nematus caprcepy on the otiieF ; J>, Selandria alni ? on the alder. 

Another slimy caterpillar of a saw-fly, allied to 
that of the cherry {Tenthredo Cerasi), is called the 
slug worm in North America, where it has increased 

* J. R. f Reaumur; vol. v.; pi. 11; fig. 1, 2* 

u 


 


SO numerously as to threaten the entire destruction of 
fruit trees, including the cherry, plum, pear, and 
quince. Where they are numerous, the air becomes 
loaded with a disagreeable and sickly effluvium. The 
history of this orchard pest has been admirably 
written by Professor Peck*. 

When a turnip crop has been fortunate enough to 
escape the ravages committed on it in the seed leaf 
by a small jumping beetle (Haltica nemorum, IiiLi- 
ger), and by a root weevil (Nedyus contr actus ^ 
Stephens), a no less formidable depredator some- 
times appears in a caterpillar belonging to the saw- 
fly family (Tenthredividfr), and apparently of the 
genus Athalia. An instance is recorded hj Mar- 
shall, in the Philosophical Transactions, of many 
thousand acres having had to be ploughed up on 
account of the devastations caused by these insects. 
It is, he informs us, the general opinion in Norfolk, 
that they come from over-sea ; and a farmer averred 
that he saw them arrive in clouds so as to darken 
the air, while the fishermen reported that they had 
repeatedly witnessed flights of them pass over their 
heads when they were at a distance from land. On 
the beech and the cliffs, indeed, they lay in heaps, 
so that they might have been taken up with shovels ; 
while three miles inland they crowded together like 
a swarm of bees t. 

We have little doubt, however, that these details 
are put in an inverse order ; as frequently occurs in 
histories of the proceedings of insects by those but 
little acquainted with their habits. Insects of this 
family, indeed, seldom fly far, and could not at all 
events cross the sea, unless it might be a narrow bay 
or inlet ; and if they had, we ought to have heard of 
their departure as well as their arrival, since their 

* Nat. Hist, of the SlugWorio, Boston, 1799. 
t Phil. Trans, vol. Ixxiii. p. 31 7, 





extraordinary number could not have failed to at- 
tract public notice on other shores. The nature of 
these insects is to lie in the pupa state during the 
winter under ground ; and when, at its appointed 
time, the fly comes forth, it only lives to lay its eggs, 
usually dying within a few days or weeks. It must 
have been, therefore, after the laying their eggs on the 
turnips, and not before, that clouds of the flies were 
seen at sea and on the shore, though not arriving, 
but going away. They were, doubtless, impelled by 
that restless desire of change felt by all animals 
when death is approaching, and which in tropical 
countries is yearly exemplified in the destruction of 
locusts, for these always make for the sea, and 
perish there. But though they were thus got rid 
of in August, 1782, they left a progeny behind them 
in the black caterpillars which were hatched from 
their eggs. In the summer of 1783, accordingly, 
we are told by Mr. Marshall, that whole districts 
were ravaged by them, — the descendants, of course, 
in the second generation, of the saw-flies which pe- 
rished on the beach and at sea the preceding au- 
tumn. 

Some caterpillars, which either conceal them- 
selves under ground, or feed on roots and the wood 
of trees, do considerable injury, without apparent 
cause ; and often give occasion to the popular notions 
respecting mysterious blights. In this manner will 
the caterpillars of the ghost moth {Hepialus Humuli) 
gnaw the roots of the burdock, and, what is of more 
consequence, of the hop plant, tjU the shoots are 
weakened and the leaves droop in bright sunshine. 
We have repeatedly seen, in the gardens about Lee, 
a large branch of the red-currant bush, though pre- 
viously healthy and loaded with fruit, all of a sud- 
den droop and wither, giving good cause to sur- 
mise, except in the leaves not being brown or 




parched, that it had been struck with lightning. On 
cutting into such branches, however, the cause was 
uniformly found to be the ravages of the caterpillar 
of the currant hawk-moth {Mgeria tipuliformis^ 
Stephens), which abounds in the vicinity. But we 
have also remarked that it only occasionally produces 
this effect upon the trees ; for several bushes upon 
which we have found old pupa-cases projecting from 
the bark, remained healthy and uninjured*. Sir 
Joseph Banks showed Mr. Kirby a currant branch 
perforated by this caterpillar to the pith, and said the 
size of the fruit was in consequence diminished f. 
In Germany it is reported to destroy even large 
bushes of the red currant. There can be no doubt 
that the caterpillars of the goat moth frequently 
destroy willow, poplar, and oak trees, of considerable 
magnitude; but the mother moth seems to prefer 
laying her eggs upon those which have already 
begun to decay. A black poplar tree, not thicker 
than a man’s leg, and stripped on one side of more 
than a foot of the bark, was bored by above a dozen 
caterpillars of the clear underwing i^Mgeria asilu 
formis, Stephens), without seeming to have its 
growth at all retarded J. 

It does not appear that a minute moth, called by 
Leeuwenhoeck, who writes its history, the wolf, and 
by Haworth the mottled- woollen (Pk. Tinea granella, 
Linnaeus), is so abundant in Britain as to do much 
damage to the grain stored in granaries, upon which 
it feeds. But it seems to have created considerable 
alarm on the Continent. It has been found near 
London, and may increase with us. The cater- 
pillar, which is smooth and white, ties together with 
silk several grains of wheat, barley, rye, or oats, weav^ 

t Kirby and Spence, vol. i. p. 197. 

X See Ins. Arcbit., p. 192, 


J. R. 


 

in^ a ^llery between them, from which it projects its 
head while feedings ; the grains, as Reaumur remarks, 
being prevented from rolling or slipping by the silk 
which unites them. He justly ridicules the absurd 
notion of its filing off the outer skin of the wheat by 
rubbing upon it with its body, the latter being the 
softer of the two ; and he disproved, by experiment, 
Leeuwenhoeck’s assertion that it will also feed on 
woollen cloth. It is from the end of May till the 
beginning of July that the moths, which are of a 
silvery grey, spotted with brown, appear and lay their 
eggs in granaries. 

The caterpillar of another still more singular 
grain moth {Tinea Horded Kirby) proves some- 
times very destructive to granaries. The mother 
moth, in May or June, lays about twenty or more 
eggs on a grain of barley or wheat ; and when the 
caterpillars are hatched they disperse, each selecting 
a single grain. M. Reaumur imagines that san- 
guinary wars must sometimes arise, in cases of pre- 
occupancy, a single grain of barley being a rich 



Transformatioas of the'^fprain moths, a, grain of barley includ- 
ing a caterpillar ; 6, c, the grain cut across, seen to be Tiollow ed 
out, and divided by a partition of silk; d, the moth (iftaea 
Hordei) ; e, j^ains of wheat tied together by the caterpillar,/ ; 
//, the moth ^uplocamvM fftaneila). 






heritage for one of these tiny insects ; but he con- 
fesses he never saw such contests*. When the 
caterpillar has eaten its way into the interior of the 
grain, it feeds on the farina, taking care not to gnaw 
the skin nor even to throw out its excrements, so that 
except the little hole, scarcely discernible, the grain 
appears quite sound. When it has eaten all the 
farina, it spins itself a case of silk within the now 
hollow grain, and changes to a pupa in November f. 

Two other caterpillars of a different family, the 
honeycomb moth {Galleria cereana^ Fabr.), and the 
honey moth {G. alvearia, Fabr.), the first having 
square, and the second rounded wings J, do very 
considerable damage to the hives of bees. The 
moths of both, according to Reaumur, appear about 
the end of June or beginning of July; and when in 
danger they run rather than fly, gliding with such 
celerity that they can easily elude the vigilance of 
the bees, which, indeed, if we may trust Swam- 
merdam, never attack them, nor prevent their en- 
trance into the hives, unless they chance to brush 
against them in their passage. But Reaumur ac- 
tually saw the bees pursue one, though without 
success. It becomes easy for a moth, at all events, 
to lay eggs among the combs ; or as Keys says, at 
the entrance of the hive: this writer adds, “she 
spins a close and strong web to defend the young § 
which is impossible, as no insect, subsequent to its 
larva state, can spin. 

The caterpillar of the first species, “ wherever it 
passes,’’ says Swammerdam, “ gnaws round holes 
through the waxen cells, one caterpillar sometimes 
breaking open and destroying fifty or sixty cells. 

See Insect Architecture, p. 231. 
f Reaumur, Mem., vol. ii. p. 486, &c. 

1 Stephens’s Catalogue, vol. ii. p. 213. 

§ Keys, Treatise on Pees, p. 178, edit. 1814. 





Wherever it penetrates it always fabricates a hollow 
tubulated web, in which, as a rabbit in its burrow, 
it can very swiftly pass from one part to another, 
and speedily run back again. It fills the whole 
comb with such webs, and turns itself in them 
every way into various bendings and windings ; so 
that the bees are not only perplexed and disturbed in 
their work, but they frequently entangle themselves 
by the claws and hairs of their legs in those webs, 
and the whole hive is destroyed.” 

The other species he accuses of being not only 
destructive to the wax, but to the bees themselves. 
“I saw one of these little caterpillars,” he says, 
“ whilst it was still small, and was breaking the cells 
in which the pupa of the bees lie, and eating the wax 






there, cover up these pupse with its excrements, so 
that they could scarcely be known.” He adds with 
great naivete, “ I have learned these matters much 
against my inclination, and have been full of wrath 
against the insect for thus defiling and killing some 
bee pupae which I had designed to observe in their 
changes*.’* 

M. Bazin, a friend of Reaumur’s, discovered the 
caterpillar of a moth of this order feeding on choco- 
late, of which it seemed very choice, always pre- 
ferring that which had the finest flavour. The moth 
is sometimes produced in September, and some- 
times in the beginning of the following summer. 
It is probable that, like the cheese-fly, it might, in 
default of chocolate, select some other aliment f. 

? Swammerdam, vol. i, p. 225. f Reaumur, vol, iii, p, 277 






Voracity of Caterpillars, Grabs, and Maggots continued. 

Grubs. 

We frequently hear farmers and gardeners com- 
plaining that their produce is destroyed by “ the 
grub ; ’’ they might with equal propriety accuse 
“ /Ae bird'’ when their ripe seeds are devoured 
by sparrows, chaffinches, linnets, and other seed- 
eaters. Instead of one sort of grub, as the expression 
seems to indicate, we are far under the mark in 
reckoning a thousand species indigenous to Britain, 
each peculiar in its food and its manners. We shall, 
however, adhere as nearly as possible to the terms in 
common use; but as the larvic of the crane-flies 
(Tipulidai, Leach), being without legs, cannot be 
accurately ranked with the legged grubs of beetles, 
we shall consider them as maggots, though they are 
usually termed grubs by the farmers. 

The most destructive, perhaps, of the creatures 
usually called grubs, arc the larv® of the may-bug 
or cockchafer (Melolontfia vulgaris), but too well 
known, particularly in the southern and midland 
districts of England, as well as in Ireland, where 
the grub is called the Connaught worm*; but fortu- 
nately not abundant in the north. We only once 
met with the cockchafer in Scotland, at Sorn, in Ayr- 
shire t- Even in the perfect state, this insect is not 
a little destructive to the leaves of both forest and 
fruit trees. In 18*23, we remember to have observed 
almost all the trees about Dulwich and Camberwell 
? Bingley, Anim. Biog. vol.iii, p. 230. t J* Ik 






defoliated by them ; and Salisbury says, the leaves 
of the oaks in Richmond Park were so eaten by 
them, that scarcely an entire leaf was left. But it is 
in their previous larva state that they are most de- 
structive, as we shall see by tracing their history. 

The mother cockchafer, when about to lay her eggs, 
digs into the earth of a meadow or corn-field to the 
depth of a span, and deposits them in a cluster at 
the bottom of the excavation. Rosel, in order to 
watch their proceedings, put some females into 
glasses half-filled with earth, covered with a tuft of 
grass, and a piece of thin muslin. In a fortnight, 
he found some hundreds of eggs deposited, of an 
oval shape and a pale yellow colour. Placing the 
glass in a cellar, the eggs were hatched towards 
autumn, and the grubs increased remarkably in size. 
In the following May they fed so voraciously that 
they required a fresh turf every second day; and 
even this proving too scanty provender, he sowed in 
several garden pots a crop of peas, lentils, and salad, 
and when the plants came up, he put a pair of grubs 
in each pot ; and in this manner he fed them through 
the second and third years. During this period, 
they cast their skins three or four times, going for 
this purpose deeper into the earth, and burrowing 
out a hole where they might effect their change un- 
disturbed ; and they do the same in winter, during 
which they become torpid and do not eat. 

When the grub changes into a pupa, in the third 
autumn after it is hatched, it digs a similar burrow 
about a yard deep ; and when kept in a pot, and pre- 
vented from going deep enough, it shows great un- 
easiness and often dies. The perfect beetle comes 
forth from the pupa in January or February ; but it is 
then as soft as it was whilst still a grub, and does 
not acquire its hardness and colour for ten or twelve 
days, nor does it venture above ground before May, 





on the fourth year from the time of its hatching. At 
this time, the beetles may be observed issuing from 
their holes in the evening, and dashing themselves 
about in the air as if blind. 



TTansfomialions of the cockchafer {Melolontha vtdgaris), a, 
newly hatched larvae, b. larva, one year old. c, the i>aine larva 
at the second year of RTOWtb. d, the same three years old. c, 
section of a hank of earth, containing: the chrysalis of the fourth 
year, the chafer first emerging: from the earth, g, the perfect 
chafer in a sitting posture, h, the same flying. 

During the three summers then of their existence 
in the grub state, these insects do immense injuiyr, 
burrowing between the turf and the soil, and devour- 
ing the roots of grass and other plants ; so that the 




turf may easily be rolled off, as if cut by a turfing 
spade^ while the soil underneath for an inch or more 
is turned into soft mould like the bed of a garden. 
Mr. Anderson, of Norwich, mentions having seen 
a whole field of fine flourishing grass so under- 
mined by these grubs, that in a few weeks it became 
as dry, brittle, and withered’ as hay *. Bingley also 
tells us that “ about sixty years ago, a farm near 
Norwich was so infested with cockchafers, that the 
farmer and his servants affirmed they gathered eighty 
bushels of them ; and the grubs had done so much 
injury, that the court of the city, in compassion to 
the poor fellow’s misfortune, allowed him twenty- 
five poundsf.” In the year 1785, a farmer, near 
Blois, in France, employed a number of children and 
poor persons to destroy the cockchafers at the rate 
of two liards a hundred, and in a few days they col- 
lected fourteen thousand 

“ I remember,” says Salisbury, “ seeing, in a nur- 
sery near Bagshot, several acres of young forest 
trees, particularly larch, the roots of which were com- 
pletely destroyed by it, so much so, that not a single 
tree was left alive §.” We are doubtful, however, 
whether this was the grub of the cockchafer, and 
think it more likely to have been that of the green 
rose beetle {Cetonia auratd), which feeds on the roots 
of trees. 

The grub of an allied genus, the midsummer 
ch&feT (Zantheumia Solstitialis, Leach), has for the 
last two years been abundant on Lewisham Hill, 
Blackheath, doing considerable injury to herbage 
and garden plants. > This beetle may be known from 
being smaller and paler than the cockchafer, and 
from its not appearing before midsummer. The grub 
is very similar. 

? Philosopb. Trans, xliv. 679. f Anim. Biog. iii. 233. 

t Anderson’s Beer, in Agricult, iii, 420. $ HiuU^ 74. 






The best way of preventing the ravages of these 
insects would be to employ children to collect the 
perfect insects when they first appear, before they lay 
their eggs ; but when a held is once overrun with 
the larva, nothing can be done with it, except paring 
and burning the surface, or ploughing it up, and 
turning in a hock of ducks or other poultry, or a 
drove of pigs, which are said to eat these grubs, 
and to fatten on the fare. Drenching the field with 
stable urine* by means of reservoir carts, like those 
used for watering roads, would, if sufficiently done, 
both kill the grubs, and beneficially manure the land. 

The grub called the wire worm, though not very 
appropriately, is the larva of one of the spring or 
click beetles (Hemirhipus lineatus^ and H, obscurus^ 
Latreille), known by their long flattish body, and 
their power of springing with a clicking sound out 
of the hand when caught. In some works on agri- 
culture, the larva of a common crane fly (Tipula 
oUracea or T. crocatd) is called the wire worm^ — we 
suppose by mistake f. The grubs of the click bee- 
tles, just alluded to, are said by Bierscander | and 
by Mr. Paul of Starston, Norfolk §, who watched 
their transformations, to continue five years before 
producing the perfect insect. During this time the 
grub feeds chiefly on the roots of wheat, rye, oats, 
barley, and grass ; but seems also sometimes to attack 
the larger roots of potatoes, carrots, and salads. Its 
ravages are often so extensive as to cut oflT entire 
crops of grain. It appears to be most partial to land 
newly broken up ; and has not been found so abun- 
dant in meadows and pastures, unless in fields recently 
laid down with grass. “ The wire worm,” says 
Spence, “ is particularly destructive for a few years 

* See the Harleian Dairy System, p. 222. 
f See Loudon’s Encycl. of Agricult. 6921. 

X Act, Holm, 1779, p.284« ^ Kirby and Spence, i, 182, 





in gardens recently converted from pasture ground. 
In the botanic garden at Hull, thus circumstanced, a 
great proportion of the annuals sown in 1813 were 
destroyed by it. A very simple and effectual remedy, 
in such cases, was mentioned to me by Sir Joseph 
Banks. He recommended that slices of potatoes 
stuck upon skewers, should be buried near the seeds 
sown, examined every day, and the wire- worms, 
which collect upon them in great numbers, de- 
stroyed 

The wire worm is long, slender, and very tough 
and hard ; but otherwise it has no resemblance to 
wire, being whitish in colour, of a flattish form, and 
jointed or ringed. Its breathing spiracles, two in 
number, are on the back of its last ring. 




a. Wire worm ; 6, Click beetle. 


An insect of this family (Elater noctilucus, Linn.) 
is exceedingly destructive, in the West Indies, to the 
sugar-cane ; the grub, according to Humboldt and 
Bonpland, feeding on its roots and killing the 
plants t* 

Instances are by no means rare, however, of in- 
sects being accused of depredations of which they are 
not guilty, from the mere circumstance of their being 


* Intr. i. 182-3. f Geog, des Plantes, 136. 






found in abundance where ravages have been com- 
mitted by others that have naturally disappeared. It 
is not improbable that this was the case with a grub 
of some beetle (Staphylinidee?)^ mentioned by 
Mr. Walford, and mistaken by him for the wire 
worm. Out of fifty acres of wheat sown in 1802, 
ten had been destroyed in October, by this grub 
eating into the centre of the young stem an inch 
below the surface and killing the plant^. It seems 
still more probable that the grub of a native beetle 
{Zabrus gibbus, Stephens), which has been found 
in considerable numbers near Worthing, Brighton, 
Hastings, and Cambridge, has been unjustly blamed 
as a destroyer of corn ; though we have the respect- 
able authority of Germar, who, with other members 
of the society of Natural History of Halle, ima- 
gined he had ascertained the fact. In the spring of 
1813, about two hundred and thirty acres of young 
wheat are said to have been destroyed by it ; and it 
is farther supposed to be the same insect which 
caused great destruction in Italy in 1776. This grub 
is said to take probably three years in coming to a 
beetle, in which state it is alleged to clamber up the 
stems at night, to get at the corn. It is important 
to remark, that along with these grubs were found 





those of a chafer (Mdolontha rujicomis^ Fabr.), ia 
the proportion of about a fourth 

To this account, Mr. Stephens appends the shrewd 
questions — “ May not these herbivorous larvae [of the 
chafer] have been the principal cause of mischief to 
the wheat, while those of the Zabrus rather contri- 
buted to lessen their numbers, than to destroy the 
corn ? And is it not probable that the perfect insects 
ascend the corn for the purj>ose of devouring the 
insect parasites thereon? This is a subject,” he 
justly adds, “that requires investigation, as it is 
highly important, for the interests of the agricul- 
turist in those districts where the insect abounds, 
that the question should be thoroughly set at rest ; 
because, should the Zabri depart from the habits of 
the group to which they belong, and become herbi- 
vorous instead of carnivorous, their destruction would 
be desirable ; while, on the contrary, if they destroy 
the devourers of our produce their preservation 
should be attempted f.” 

We have little doubt that Mr. Stephens is right, 
and Germar wrong ; but it would be improper to 
decide the question by analogy unsupported by direct 
experiment. One thing is certain, that both this 
iamily {Harpalidce, MacLeay) and the whole sec- 
tion {Adephaga, Clairville) are not herbivorous, 
but carnivorous Similar errors will come under 
our notice, as we proceed, not more defensible 
than that of the old soldier causing caterpillars in 
France. 

Even when agricultural produce escapes being 
devoured at the root, or the young shoots eaten up, 
the seeds are often made the prey of the grubs of 

* Germar, Mag. der EntomoL, i. 1-10 ; and Kirby and Spence, 
i. 169. 

f Stephens, Illustrations, i. Mandib. pp. 4 and 140. 

I See an Illustration in Insect Architect., p. 207-8. 



beetles and weevils. Amon^ the first, the gnawing 
beetles {Bruchidce, Leach) are very destructive. 
In North America, the pea beetle (Bruchw Pisi, 
Linn.) commits such extensive depredations on 
pulse, that in some districts the sowing of peas has 
been abandoned as useless. Kalm, the Swedish 
traveller, having witnessed these depredations in 
America, became quite alarmed when he discovered 
the insect among some peas he had brought to 
Sweden, lest he should be the means of introducing 
so formidable a pest*. His fears seem to us to have 
been in a great measure groundless ; for, probably, 
the insect may be indigenous to Sweden, as it is to 
Britain, though from circumstances of climate, and 
other causes, it is seldom produced in such numbers 
with us as to occasion extensive damage. It may have 
been the same or an allied species of grub mentioned 
by Amoroux as having spread an alarm in France in 
1780, when the old fancy of its being poisonous 
induced the ])ublic authorities to prohibit peas from 
being sold in the marketsf. The insect most 
destructive to our peas is the pulse beetle {Bruchus 
^ranarius, Linn.), which sometimes lays an egg on 
every pea in a pod, which the grub, when hatched, 
destroys. In the same way, clover seed is often attacked 
by two or more species of small weevil {Apion^ 
Herbst), known by the yellow colour of their 
thighs or their feet ; and when the farmer expects to 
reap considerable profit, he finds nothing but empty 
husks. 

We have mentioned the ravages committed in 
granaries by the caterpillars of small moths; but 
these are rivalled in the work of destruction by 
several species of grubs. One of these grubs is 

? Kalm’s Travels, vol. i, p. 173. 

t Amoroux, Insectes Venimcux, 288, Kirby and Spence, 
i. 177. 





called by the French cadelle (Trogosita mauritanica, 
Olivier), and is reported to have done more damage 
to housed grain than any other insect*. The pest 
of the granaries, which is but too well known in this 
country, is the grain weevil (Calandra granaria^ 
Clairville), the same, probably, which is mentioned 
by Virgil, 

— — PopuJatque ingentem farris acervum 
Curculio. Georg, i. 87 . 

The high stacks of corn 

Are wasted by the weevil, Trapp, 

Kirby and Spence calculate that a single pair of 
weevils may produce in one season 6000 descendants ; 
and they were told by an extensive brewer that he 
had collected and destroyed them by bushels t,— 
meaning, no doubt, insects and damaged grain 
together. 



Com weevil {Calandra granaria), magnified. 


Another beetle gnib, popularly called the meal 
worm, the larva of Tenehrio molitor^ Linn., which 
lives in that state two years, does no little damage to 
flour, as well as to bread, cakes, biscuit, and similar 
articles. Accounts are also given of the ravages com- 
mitted by the grubs of other beetles, of several species 
apparently not well ascertained, upon different sorts of 
provisions, such as bacon, ham, dried tongues, ship- 
biscuit, &c. Sparrman tells us, that he has wit- 
. essed the ground peas on ship-board so infested 
? Olivier, ii. 19. i. 173. 





with these grabs, that they were seen in every 
spoonful of the soup. In the case of soup, or of other 
food which has been exposed to heat, the only 
inconvenience is the disgust which must ensue; 
but, unfortunately, there may sometimes occur cir- 
cumstances of a more serious nature, — from either 
the eggs or the insects themselves being incautiously 
swallowed alive. We do not wish, however, to 
create, so much as to allay, the fears entertained by 
those who are unacquainted with the habits of 
insects ; and nothing we are persuaded will do this 
more effectually than a statement of facts well 
ascertained. “ Several people,” says the Abb^ de la 
Pluche, “ never eat fruit because they believe that 
spiders and other insects scatter their eggs upon it 
at random* but even if this were so, as it is not, 
it would be impossible for the young, should they be 
hatched in the stomach, to live there for an instant. 
The possible cases in which this may occur we shall 
now briefly notice ; they are fortunately very rare. 

The meal worm, and some of the grubs which 
feed on grain and other provisions, are recorded to 
have been swallowed, and to have given rise to 
disorders in the stomach and bowels ; but in all such 
cases it is plain, that if the insects did survive 
the increased temperature of the stomach, they 
could only live on the food swallowed from time to 
time, for, not being carnivorous, they would not attack 



Meal worm, and the beetle produced from it. 


* Spectacle de la Nature^ i. 65. 






the stomach itself. The same remark will apply no 
less forcibly to the herbivorous larvae, which might 
chance to be swallowed in salad, &c. The cater^ 
pillar of the tabby moth {Aglossa pinguincdU^ 
Latreille), which feeds on butter, the leather on 
book-boards, &c., is said, on the authority of Lin- 
naeus, to get sometimes into the stomach, and to 
produce considerable ‘disorder*; but this insect is 
very common in houses t, and, from the rarity of 
such accidents, we are led to doubt the evidence 
usually brought forward. In this case we are 
the more induced to question the authority of Lin- 
naeus, from his having made an evident mistake in a 
similar case respecting intestinal worms. 





Transformations of the tabby moth {Aglossapinguinalis). a, the 
caterpillar feeding on butter ; 6, c, d, feeding on leather under 
galleries} c, the moth with the down rubbed off; /, the same 
perfect. 

Linnsus affirms, that in the presence of seven of 
his companions he discovered, near Reuterholm, in 
Dalecarha, a tape worm in acidulous ochre (jOchram 
addularem)^ at which he marvelled the more since 

? Linnseus, quoted by Kirby and Spence, i. 136. 
t Latreille^ Hist, uv. 229. 





acidulous water of this kind had been drank with 
the design of expelling these worms This 
account, however, proves too little ; for, as Bonnet, 
Rt^aumur, Pallas, and other eminent naturalists 
remark, if such were the fact, we should find in- 
testinal worms (so very numerous in most animals) 
swarming in such places, and from their size 
(Boerhaave saw one thirty ells long) they could 
not escape observation ; whereas this was at that 
time the only instance recorded of one found 
out of the body. We are of opinion that Lin- 
neeus must have been deceived by similarity of 
form. A subsequent instance is recorded by Dr. 
Barry, of Cork, who imagined he had found the 
origin of the common small thread worm (fixyuru 
vermicidaris, Bremsek) in the water of a well — the 
aquatic only differing from the intestinal worms 
in colour. But were all descriptions as loose as this 
the grossest mistakes must ensue; for it is quite 
clear that Dr. Barry’s aquatic worms were a very 
common species {Nais)^ and though similar in 
external form, altogether different in internal 
structure from the OxyuridtB of the intestines. 
Were the latter, indeed, introduced into the body 
from water, they would not only be found in this 
particular well, two miles from Cork, but would 
swarm in all the waters in the empire ; since there 
are few individuals who are not affected with these 
worms at some period of their lives. According to 
our experiments, the ndis ceases to exist in a tem- 
perature considerably less than that of the human 
body; besides, as it lives on minute fresh-water 
molluscae, it could find no food in the intestinest- 
The celebrated Dr. J. P. Frank is no less mistaken 
in referring us for the origin of intestinal worms to 
“minute insects flying in the airj ;” for, if so, the 

* Linnaeus, quoted by Bonnet, QSuvres, iii. 137. f J. R, 
X Frank. De Curand. Homin. Morb. lib. vi. 





worms would naturally produce similar insects to 
their parents ; whereas tViey are either oviparous, as 
Goetze affirms, or, as Bremser thinks, ovo-viparous * 
both agreeing that they are not transformed into 
flying insects. Reaumur made the more plausible 
conjecture, that they might be introduced by eating 
tench and other fish, in which they are known to 
abound t ; but, independently of their being destroyed 
by heat in cooking, this has been subsequently dis- 
proved by experiment ; for M. Deslonchamps says, 
that “ when animals are fed for some time on in- 
testinal worms (Entoozaria) alone, and then killed, 
they are not found infested with these worms J.’* 
Valisnieri and Hartsocker suppose, without a shadow 
of proof, that worms are transmitted from parents 
to children like other hereditary disorders ; while 
the late M. Lamarck refers their production to “ the 
march of nature in the production of all living 
beings § !” This indefinite doctrine is also held 
by Geoffroi St. Hilaire, Cuvier, Blumenbach, and 
other distinguished living naturalists ; but we think 
it more philosophical and more manly, in such 
obscure cases, at once to confess our ignorance of the 
ways of nature, and to wait for further observation, 
than to frame idle theories, supported only by vague 
analogies and doubtful facts. 

It may not be uninteresting to mention, however, 
that upwards of 1200 species of intestinal worms 
have been discovered: and probably there may be 
twice as many more of whose existence nothing is 
yet known. Sixteen of these species have been 
found in the human body ; the rest are peculiar to 
other animals ||. Some of the more singular species 

* Bremser, Uber Lebende Wiirmer in leb. Mcnsch. 
f Letter to Bonnet, CBuvres, vol. iii. p.344. 

J Diet. Ciassique, vol. viii. p.589. 

$ Anim. sans Vertebres, vol,i. p. 15. 

II Diet. Ciassique, vol. viii. p.593. 





are here represented, from the splendid work of 
Bremser. 



Intestinal worms. 


That insects are, in some rare cases, intro- 
duced into the human stomach, has been more than 
once proved; though the greater number of the 
accounts of such facts in medical books are too 
inaccurate to be trusted*. But one extraordinary 
case has been completely authenticated, both by me- 
dical men and competent naturalists ; and is pub- 
lished in the Dublin Transactions, by Dr. Pickells 
of Corkt. Mary Riordan, aged 28, had been much 
affected by the death of her mother, and at one of 
her many visits to the grave seems to have partially 
lost her senses, having been found lying there on 
the morning of a winters day, and having been ex- 
posed to heavy rain during the night. When she 
was about fifteen, two popular Catholic priests had 
died, and she was told by some old women that if she 

* See Good’s Nosologia, Helminthia Alvij and Study of Mcd« 
vol. i. p. 336. 

+ Trans, of Assoc. Phys, in Ireland, iv. vii, and p. 177, 8vo. 

Dublin, 1824—1626, 


 


would drink daily, for a certain time, a quantity of 
water, mixed with clay taken from their graves, she 
would be for ever secure from- disease and sin. Fol- 
lowing this absurd and disgusting prescription, she 
took ^m time to time large quantities of the draught; 
some time afterwards, being affected with a burning 
pain in the stomach (Cardialgia)^ she began to eat 
large pieces of chalk, which she sometimes also mixed 
with water and drank. 

Now, whether in any or in all of these draughts she 
swallowed the eggs of insects, so be affirmed ; 
but for several years she continue ^ ^ throw up incre- 
dible numbers of grubs and magt ts, chiefly of the 
churchyard beetle (Blaps mortisaga^ Fabr.). “ Of 
the larvae of the beetle,” says Dr. Pickells, “ I am 
sure I considerably underrate, when I say that not 
less than 700 have been thrown up from the stomach 
at different times since the commencement of my 
attendance. A great proportion were destroyed by 
herself to avoid publicity; many, too, escaped im- 
mediately by running into holes in the floor. Up- 
wards of ninety were submitted to Dr. Thomson's* 
examination ; nearly all of which, including two of the 
specimens of the meal worm {Tenebrio molitor)^ I 
saw myself, thrown up at diflferent times. The aver- 
age size was about an inch and a half in length, and 
four lines and a half in girth. The larvae of the dip- 
terous insect, though voided only about seven or eight 
times, according to her account, came up almost 
literally in myriads. They were alive and moving.^' 
Altogether, Dr. Pickells saw nearly 2000 grubs of 
the beetle, and there were many which he did not 
see. Mr. Clear, an intelligent entomologist of Cork, 
kept some of them alive for more than twelve months. 
Mr. S. Cooper cannot understand whence the con- 
tinued supply of the grubs was provided, seeing that 
* The weU-kDOwa author of Zoological Researches/’ &c. 






Wv® do not propagate, and that only one pupa and 
one perfect insect were voided*; but the simple fact 
that most beetles live several years in the state of 
larvae sufficiently accounts for this. Their existing and 
thriving in the stomach, too, will appear less wonder- 
ful from the fact that it is exceedingly difficult to kill 
this insect ; for Mr. Henry Baker repeatedly plunged 
one into spirits of wine, so fiital to most insects, but it 
revived, even after being immersed a whole night, 
and afterwards lived three years t* 



^Churchyard beetle (^Biaps mortisaga), in the grub and perfect state, 
from the figures of Dr. Pickells. 


That there was no deception on the part of the 
woman, is proved by the fact that she was always 
: anxious to conceal the circumstance ; and that it was 
‘Only by accident that the medical gentlemen, Drs. 
Pickells, Herrick, and Thomson, discovered it. More- 
over, it does not appear that, though poor, she ever 
took advantage of it to extort money. It is interest- 

* Cooper's edition of Good’s Study of Medicine, i. 358. 
t Philotoph. Trans., No. 457. 

Y 





ing to leam that by means of turpentine, in large 
doses, she was at length cured. 

The grub of the nut weevil {Balaninus Nucuntj 
Germar) might, perhaps, by rare accident, get into 
the stomach, either of man or of the quadrupeds 
which feed oii nuts ; but as it is by no means so 
tenacious of life as the grub of the churchyard-beetle 
(Blaps mortisaga) above described, it is unlikely 
that it would produce any considerable disorder. 
The weevil in question, like the rest of its congeners, 
is furnished with an instrument for depositing its 
eggs considerably different from those of the ichneu- 
mons and saw-flies. For this purpose the weevil 
makes use of its long horny beak {Rostrum) to drill 
a hole in filberts and hazel-nuts, while in their young 
and soft state, about the beginning of August. The 
mother weevil may then be seen eagerly running 
over the bushes, and it would appear that she always 
rejects the nuts in which one of her neighbours may 
have previously laid an egg ; at least we never find 
two grubs in the same nut. The egg, which is thus 
thrust into the young nut, is of a brown colour, and 
is hatched in about a fortnight, the grub feeding on 
the interior of the shell as well as the soft pulp, till 
the one becomes too hard and the other too dry to be 
nutritive. It is remarkable that, during this period, 
he takes care not to injure the kernel, but permits it 
to ripen before he attacks it Had he done this pre- 
maturely, he would have ultimately been starved, as 
he has not the power of perforating another nut 
when the first is consumed. It is said also that he 
is very careful to preserve the original hole made by 
the mother, by gnawing around its inner edges, in 
order to facilitate his exit*, which he effects when the 
* Bingley, Auimal Biography, vol. iii,, p. 251. 





nut falls to the ground in September or October. 
The hole found in the nut appears much too small 
to have admitted of its passage ; but from being very 
soft it no doubt stretches itself out for the purpose, 
using its short claws as instruments of motion. 

Rosel, in order to observe the transformation of 
these nut grubs, put a number, of them, at the com- 
mencement of winter, into glasses half filled with 
earth, covered with green turf. All of them dug 
directly down into the earth, remained there all 
the winter, and did not change into pupae till the fol- 
lowing J une ; the perfect weevils appeared from the 
1st till about the 20th of August, but still kept under 
ground for the first week after their change. 



Nut and apple-tree beetles. A, a branch of the filbert-tree, 
a, egg hole in the nut ; 6, exit hole of the grub. B, the lanrse of 
the nut beetle. C, the same in the pupa state. D, female beetle. 

E, male beetle, c, the beetle that destroys the bloom-bud of the 
apple-tree ; a, the same in the larva state ; 6, the chrysalis of 
the same. 

“ During the autumn,” says Salisbury, “ we fre- 
quently observe a small red weevil busily employed 
in traversing the branches of apple-trees, on which 
it lays its eggs by perforating the bloom buds. In 
the spring, these hatch, and the grubs feed on the 




petals of the flowers, drawing up the whole flower 
into a cluster by means of their web. The bloom 
thus becomes destroyed, and the grub falls to the 
ground, where it lays itself up in the chrysalide state ; 
and in the autumn afterwards we find the weevU 
renewed, which again perforates the buds, and causes 
a similar destniction in the following spring. Mr. 
Knight, in his treatise on the apple, mentions a beetle 
which commits great destruction on the apple-trees in 
Herefordshire ; but I do not think it the same as the 
one I have described above, and which is very common 
in the gardens near London*.** Salisbury’s weevil 
is probably the Anthonomvs Pomorum oi Germar; 
and Knight’s, his Polydrvsm Mali, Another weevil 
(Rkynchites Bacchus, Herbst), one of our most 
splendid but not very common native insects, bores 
into the stone of the cherry, &c. while it is young 
and soft, and deposits an egg there, as the nut weevil 
does in the nut. 

Perhaps the most voracious grub on record is that 
of a large and beautiful beetle (Calosoma syco- 
phanta, Weber), which is rare in Britain. It is 
sometimes found in the nests of the processionary and 
other gregarious caterpillars, so gorged with those it 
has devoured that it can scarcely move without 
bursting. Not contented with this prey alone, how- 
ever, the younger grubs are said “ often to take ad- 
vantage of the helpless inactivity into which the glut- 
tony of their matiirer comrades has thrown them, 
and from mere wantonness, it should seem, when in 
no need of other food, pierce and devour themf.” It 
is a familiar occurrence to those who breed insects to 
find caterpillars, whose natural food is leaves, devour- 
ing others in the same nurse-box ; and without any 
* Salisbury's Hints on Orchards, p. 92. 
t Kirby and Spence; vol. i.p. 277. 





apparent discrimination whether these are the progeny 
of their own mother, or of a diflFerent species *. 

We have frequently observed a very remarkable 
instinct in the grubs of a species of beetle (Scolyius 
Destructor, Geoffrov), which lives under the dead 
bark of trees. The mother insect, as is usual with 
beetles, deposits her eggs in a patch or cluster in a 
chink or hole in the bark ; and when the brood is 
hatched, they begin feeding on the bark which had 
formed their cradle. There is, of course, nothing won 
derful in their eating the food selected by their mother; 
but it appears that, like the caterpillars of the clothes 
moth, and the tent insects, they cannot feed except 
under cover. They dig, therefore, long tubular galleries 
between the bark and the wood ; and, in order not 
to interfere with the runs of their brethren, they 
branch off from the place of hatching like rays from 
the centre of a circle : though these are not al- 
ways in a right line, yet, however near they may ap- 
proach to the contiguous ones, none of them ever 



Bark mined in rays by beetle grabs. 

* J. R, See also De Geer, i, 533, &c., and Reaumur, ii. 413. 




break into each other’s premises. We cannot but ad- 
mire the remarkable instinct implanted in those grubs 
by their Creator ; which guides them thus in lines di- 
verging farther and farther as they increase in size, 
so that they are prevented from interfering with the 
comforts of one another. 

The various instances of voracity which we have 
thus described sink into insignificance, when com- 
pared with the terrible devastation produced by the 
larv® of the locust (Locusta migratoriay Leach), 
— the scourge of oriental countries. “ A fire de- 
voureth before them,” says the Prophet Joel, “ and 
behind them a flame burneth : the land is as the 
garden of Eden before them, and behind them a 
desolate wilderness ; yea, and nothing shall escape 
them. The sound of their wings is as the sound of 
chariots, of many horses running to battle ; on the 
tops of mountains shall they leap, like the noise of a 
flame of fire that devoureth the stubble, as a strong 
people set in battle-array. Before their faces, the 
people shall be much pained, all faces shall gather 
blackness. They shall run like mighty men ; they 
shall climb the wall like men of war ; and they shall 
march every one in his ways, and they shall not break 
their ranks; neither shall one thrust another*.” 

The intelligent traveller. Dr. Shaw, was an eye- 
witness of their devastations in Barbary in 1724, 
where they first appeared about the end of March, 
their numbers increasing so much in the beginning 
of April as literally to darken the sun ; but by the 
middle of May they began to disappear, retiring into 
the Mettijiah and other adjacent plains to depo- 
sit their eggs. “ These were no sooner hatched 
in June,” he continues, “ than each of the broods 
collected itself into a compact body, of a furlong or 
more in square ; and marching afterwards directly 
? Joel ii. 2, &c. 





forwards toward the sea, they let nothing escape 
them, — they kept their ranks like men of war; climb- 
ing over, as they advanced, every tree or wall that 
was in their way ; nay, they entered into our very 
houses and bed-chambers, like so many thieves. 
The inhabitants, to stop their progress, formed 
trenches all over their fields and gardens, which they 
filled with water. Some placed large quantities of 
heath, stubble, and other combustible matter, in rows, 
and set them on fire on the approach of the locusts ; 
but this was all to no purpose, for the trenches were 
quickly filled up, and the fires put out, by immense 
swarms that succeeded each other. 

“ A day or two after one of these hordes was 
in motion, others were already hatched to march and 
glean after them. Having lived near a month in this 
manner, they arrived at their full growth, and threw 
off their nympha-state by casting their outward skin. 
To prepare themselves for this change, they clung 
by their hinder feet to some bush, twig, or corner of 
a stone ; and immediately, by using an undulating 
motion, their heads would first break out, and then 
the rest of their bodies. The whole transformation 
was performed in seven or eight minutes ; after which 
they lay for a small time in a torpid, and, seemingly, 
in a languishing condition ; but as soon as the sun 
and the air had hardened theirwings by drying up the 
moisture that remained upon them after casting their 
sloughs, they resumed their former voracity, with an 
addition of strength and agility. Yet they continued 
not long in this state before they were entirely dis- 
persed 

It is difficult to form an adequate conception of 
the swarms of locusts which, in 1797, invaded 
the interior of southern Africa, as recorded by Mr. 
Barrow. In the part of the country where he was, 
* Shaw’s Travels, p. 287. 




the whole surface of the ground, for an area of 
nearly two thousand square miles, might literally be 
said to be covered with them. The water of a very 
wide river was scarcely visible, on account of the dead 
carcases of locusts that floated on the surface, drowned 
in the attempt to come at the reeds that grew in it. 
They had devoured every blade of grass, and every 
green herb, except the reeds. But they are not pre- 
cisely without a choice in their food. When they at- 
tack a field of corn just come into ear, they first, ac- 
cording to Mr. Barrow, mount to the summit and 
pick out every grain before they touch the leaves and 
stem, keeping the while constantly in motion, with the 
same intent of destruction always in view. When the 
larvae, which are much more voracious than the perfect 
insects, are on a march during the day, it is utterly 
impossible to turn the direction of the troop, and this 
seems usually to correspond with that of the wind. 
Towards the setting of the sun the march is discon- 
tinued, when the troop divides into companies that sur- 
round the small shrubs, or tufts of grass, or ant- 
hills, in such thick patches, that they appear like so 
many swarms of bees ; and in this manner they rest till 
day-light. At these times it is that the farmers have 
any chance of destroying them ; this they sometimes 
effect by driving among them a flock of two or three 
thousand sheep, by whose restlessness great numbers 
of them are trampled to death. The year 1797 was 
the third of their continuance in Sneuwberg; and their 
increase had been more than a million-fold from year 
to year. 

This district, however, had been entirely free from 
them for ten years preceding their visit in 1794. 
Their former exit was singular : all the full-grown 
insects were driven into the sea by a tempestuous 
north-west wind, and were afterwards cast up on the 
beach, where they formed a bank of three or four feet 





high, and extending to a distance of nearly fifty miles. 
When this mass b^ame putrid, and the wind was at 
south-east, the stench was sensibly felt in several parts 
of Sneuwberg, although distant at least a hundred 
and fifty miles 

Pallas gives a more detailed account of the daily 
proceedings of the lar\^ffi of the Italian locust (Lo- 
custa Italica, Leach). “ In serene weather,” he 
tells us, “ the locusts are in full motion in the morn- 
ing, immediately after the evaporation of the dew ; 
and if no dew has fallen, they appear as soon as the 
sun imparts his genial warmth. At first, some are 
seen running about like messengers among the re- 
posing swarms, which are lying partly compressed 
upon the ground at the side of small eminences, and 
partly attached to tall plants and shrubs. Shortly 
after the whole body begins to move forward in one 
direction, and with little deviation. They resemble a 
swarm of ants, all taking the same course, at small 
distances, but without touching each other : they uni- 
formly travel towards a certain region as fast as a fly 
can run, and without leaping, unless pursued ; in 
which case, indeed, they disperse, but soon collect 
again and follow their former route. In this manner 
they advance from morning to evening without halt- 
ing, frequently at the rate of a hundred fathoms, and 
upwards, in the course of a day. Although they pre- 
fer marching along high roads, foot-paths, or open 
tracts, yet, when their progress is opposed by bushes, 
hedges, and ditches, they penetrate through them : 
their way can only be impeded by the waters of 
brooks or canals, as they are apparently terrified at 
every kind of moisture. Often, however, they en- 
deavour to gain the opposite bank, with the aid of 
overhanging boughs ; and, if the stalks of plants or 
shrubs l3e laid across the water, they pass in close 
? Barrow’s Travels in South Africa, p. 257. 





columns over these temporary bridges, on which they 
even seem to rest, and enjoy the refreshing coolness. 
Towards sun-set, the whole swarm gradually collect 
in parties, and creep up the plants, or encamp on 
slight eminences. On cold, cloudy, or rainy days, 
they do not travel. As soon as they acquire wings, 
they progressively disperse, but still fly about in large 
swarms*.” 

When Captains Irby and Mangles were travelling 
round the southern extremity of the Dead Sea, in the 
end of May, they had an opportunity of observing 
these insect depredators. “ In the morning,” say 
they, “ we quitted Shobek. On our way we passed a 
swarm of locusts that were resting themselves in a 
gully they were in suflBcient numbers to alter ap- 
parently the colour of the rock on which they h^ 
alighted, and to make a sort of crackling noise while 
eating, which we heard before we reached them. 
Volney compares it to the foraging of an army. Our 
conductors told us they were on their way to Gaza, 
and that they pass almost annually 

Even our own island has been alarmed by the ap- 
pearance of locusts, a considerable number having 
visited us in 1748; but they happily perished without 
propagating. Other parts of Europe have not been 
so fortunate. In 1650 a cloud of locusts were seen 
to enter Russia in three diflerent places ; and they 
afterwards spread themselves over Poland and Li- 
thuania in such astonishing multitudes, that the air 
was darkened, and the earth covered with their num- 
bers. In some places they were seen lying dead, 
heaped upon each other to the depth of four feet ; in 
others they covered the surface of the ground like a 
black cloth : the trees bent with their weight, and the 


? Travels in Russia, ii, 422-6. 
t Irby and Mangles’ Travels in Egypt and Syria, p. 443. 





damage the country sustained exceeded computation 
They have frequently come also from Africa into 
Italy and Spain. In the year 591 an infinite army 
of locusts, of a size unusually large, ravaged a con- 
siderable part of Italy, and being at last cast into the 
sea, (as seems for the most part to be their fate,) 
a pestilence, it is alleged, arose from their stench, 
which carried off nearly a million of men and beasts. 
In the Venetian territory, likewise, in 1478, more 
than 30,000 persons are said to have perished in a 
famine chiefly occasioned by the depredations of 
locusts t- 

* Bingley, Anim. Biog., iii., 280. 

f MoujOTetj Theatr. Insect., 123. 




Voracity of Caterpillars, Grabs, and Magfgots conducted* 

Maggots. 

Adhering to the distinction of terming those larvae 
which are destitute of feet, maggotSy we shall notice 
here a very destructive one, which is sometimes popu- 
larly called the grub, and sometimes confounded with 
the wire worm*. We allude to the larvae of one or two 
common species of crane flies {Tipulid(B)y well known 
by the provincial names of father-long-legs, Jenny- 
spiniiers, and tailors. These insects are so common 
in some meadows, that, being very shy and fearful of 
danger, they rise in swarms at every step — some of 
them flying high, others only skipping over the grass, 
and others running and using their long legs as the 
inhabitants of marshy countries use stilts, and em- 
ploying their wings like the ostrich to aid their 
limbs. 

These flies deposit their eggs in the earth ; some- 
times in grass fields or moist meadows, and some- 
times in the tilled ground of gardens and farms. 
For this purpose the female is provided with an ovi- 
positor well adapted to the opeiation, consisting of a 
sort of pincers or forceps of a horny consistence, and 
sharp at the point. By pressure, as Reaumur says, 
the eggs may be extruded from this in the same way 
as the stone can be easily squeezed out of a ripe 
cherry, as in the following figure. 

* See Stickney’s Observ, era the Grub, 8vo. Hull, 1800. 



Maggots of crane plies. 




Ovipositor and eggs of the crane fly {Tipula), 

The eggs are exceedingly small and black, like 
grains of gunpowder, and each female lays a good 
many hundreds. The position which she assumes 
appears somewhat awkward, for she raises herself 
perpendicularly on her two hind legs, using her ovi- 
positor as a point of support, and resting with her 
fore-legs upon the contiguous herbage. She then 
thrusts her ovipositor into the ground as far as 
the first ring of her body, and leaves one or more 
eggs in the hole ; and next moves onwards to ano- 
ther place, but without bringing herself into a hori- 
zontal position. The maggot, when hatched from 
the egg, immediately attacks the roots of the grass 
and other herbage which it finds nearest to it ; and 
of course the portion of the plant above ground 
withers for lack of nourishment. 

The maggots of this family which seem to do most 
injury are those of Tipula oleracea and T, cornicina. 
In the summer of 1828, we observed more than an 
acre of ground, adjoining the Bishop of Oxford’s 
garden, at Blackheath, as entirely stripped, both of 
grass and every thing green, as if the turf had been 







Crane fly ovipositing, and the larva beneath, in the earth, feeding' 
upon grass roots. 

pared off from the surface, the only plant untouched 
being the tiny bird tare {Ornithopus perpusillm): 
On digging here to learn the cause, we found these 
larvae already full-fed, and about to pass into pupae, 
after having left nothing upon which they could subsist. 
It was not a little remarkable that they seemed to be 
altogether confined to this spot ; for we did not meet 
with a single foot of turf destroyed by them in any 
other part of the heath, or in the adjacent fields- So 




very complete, however, was their destruction of the 
roots on the spot in question, that even now, at the 
distance of two years, it is still visibly thinner of 
herbage than the parts around it 

Reaumur gives a similar account of their ravages 
in Poitou* where, in certain seasons, the grass of the 
low moist meadows has been so parched up in conse- 
quence, as not to afford sufficient provender for the 
cattle. He describes the soil in Poitou as a black 
peat mould; and it was the same in which we found 
them at Blackheath, with this difference, that the spot 
was elevated and dry. According to M. Rt^aumur, also, 
their only food is this sort of black mould, and not the 
roots of grass and herbage, which he thinks are only 
loosened by their burrowing t* This view of the matter 
appears strongly corrolx)rated by the fact that several 
species of the family feed upon the mould in the holes 
of decaying trees, particularly the larva of a very 
beautiful one {Ctenophora Jlaveolata^ Meigen), 
which is very rare in Britain. It is proper to men- 
tion, however, that Mr. Stickney’s experiments J, 
contrary to the conclusions of Reaumur, indicate 
that these larvae devour the roots of grass ; and Stew- 
art says they “ feed on the roots of plants, corn, and 
grasses, and are thence destructive to gardens, fields, 
and meadows. They prevailed in the neighbourhood 
of Edinburgh, and other places in Scotland, in the 
spring of 1800, when they laid waste whole fields of 
oats and other grain §.” 

In many districts of England these insects cut off 
a large proportion of the wheal crop, particularly, it 
would appear, when it had been sown on clover leys. 
“ In the rich distiict,'’ say Kirby and Spence, “ of 
Sunk Island, in Holderness, in the spring of 1813, 
hundreds of acres of pasture have been entirely de- 

* J. R. t Reaumur, v. 12, &c. 

Obs. on the Grub, ^ ^ Elements, ii., 267. 




^troyed by them, being rendered as completely brown 
as if they had suffered a three months’ drought, and 
destitute of all vegetation except a few thistles. A 
square foot of the dead turf* being dug up, 210 grubs 
were counted on it ; and, what furnishes a striking 
proof of the prolific powers of those insects, last year 
it was difficult to find a single one 

It is worthy of remark that the mandibles of these 
destructive creatures, which are claw-shaped and 
transverse, do not act against each other as is usual 
among insects, but against two other pieces which are 
immoveable, convex, and toothed, — as if the under- 
jaw in quadrupeds were divided into two, and should 
act vertically on the two portions of the immoveable 
upper-jaw thrown in between them. 

The maggot of a minute fly of the same family, 
known by the name of the wheat fly (Ceddo- 
myia Tritici, Kirby), is frequently productive of 
great damage in the crops of wheat. Its history was 
first investigated by Marsham, and subsequently by 
Kirby, and several other intelligent naturalists The 
parent fly is very small, not unlike a midge (Ciilicoi- 
des punctata, Latr.), of an orange colour, and wings 
rounded at the tip, and fringed with hairs t. The 
female is furnished with a retractile ovipositor, four 
times as long as the body, and as fine as a hair, for 
depositing her eggs, which she does in the glumes 
of the florets of the grain. The following account of 
its proceedings is given by Mr. Shireff, an intelli- 
gent farmer of East Lothian. 

“ Wheat-flies,” he says, “ were first observed here 
this season on the evening of the 21st of June, and, 
from the vast number seen, it is probable a few of 
them may have been in existence some days previous. 

• Intr. i. 318, note. 

f Linn. Trans., iii., 243 — iv., 234-240 ; v., 96. 






The eggs were visible on the 28d, the larvae on the 
80th of that month, and the pupae on the 29th of 
July. The flies were observed depositinp^ egc^s on 
the 28th, and finally disappeared on the 30th July ; 
thus having existed throughout a period of thirty- 
nine days. 

“ The flies were observed to frequent the wheat- 
plant, including the thick-rooted couch-grass (Triti- 
cum repens). They generally reposed on the lower 
parts of the stems during the day, and became active 
about sunset, except when the wind was high. I 
have, however, seen them flying about on cloudy 
mornings, till seven o’clock ; and, upon one occasion, 
witnessed them de])ositing their eggs, in a shaded 
situation, at two in the afternoon. Their movements 
appear to be influenced by the rays of light, of which 
they seem impatient, being active when the sun is 
below or near the horizon : they frequent the most 
umbrageous part of the crop, and shun that which is 
deficient in foliage. 

“ The flies almost invariably preferred the ears 
emerging from the vagina to those farther advanced, 
for depositing their eggs on ; and as one side only 
of the ear is exposed when the plant is in this stage 
of growth, the other side generally remained unin- 
jured. The fly deserted the fields as the crop ad- 
vanced towards maturity, and were found longest 
on the spring-sown portion of the crop. It seemed 
to feed on the gum adhering to the newly emerged 
ears ; and as there is a great diversity in the time of 
sowing wheat in this neighbourhood, and conse- 
quently of the ears escaping from the vagina, I 
attribute the unusual length of time it has existed 
this season, to the supply of food thus gradually 
fiirnished. 

“ The fly deposits its eggs with much intensity, 
and may easily be taken when so employed. Upon 




one occasion, I numbered thirty-five flies on a single 
ear ; and, after carrying it a distance of a quarter of 
a mile, six of them still continued to deposit eggs. 
At another time, I placed a fly, then laying, between 
the face and glass of my watch, where it deposited 
several eggs, although invariably interrupted by the 
revolution of the moment hand. 

“ The eggs of the fly are generally found in clus- 
ters, varying in number from two to ten, upon the 
inner chaff, in which the furrowed side of the grain is 
embedded, and are also occasionally to be seen in 
the interior parts of the flower and chaff The eggs 
are deposited by means of a long slender tube, and 
fixed with a glutinous substance possessed by the fly. 
A thread of glutinous matter frequently connects a 
cluster of eggs with the style, where the larvae seem 
to subsist on the pollen ; in one instance, fifteen eggs 
were numbered on such a thread, several of which 
were suspended on the portion extending between 
the chaff and the style. The fly not only seems thus 
to provide a conveyance from the larvae to the style, 
but also food for their support. The anthers are 
prevented from leaving the style in consequence of 
being gummed down by the glutinous matter of the 
fly, and the pollen thereby detained for the use of the 
larvae, which otherwise would, in part, be carried out 
of the glumes by the expansion of the filaments, — 
known to fanners by the term bloom. In the exertion 
of gumming down the anthers, many of the flies are 
entangled in the vascules of the corolla, and thus 
become a sacrifice to their maternal affection. 

“The larvae are produced from the eggs in the 
course of eight or ten days : they are at first perfectly 
transparent, and assume a yellow colour a few days 
afterwards. They travel not from one floret to an- 
other, and forty-seven have been numbered in one. 
Occasionally there are found in the same floret larvae 



 

and a grain, which is generally shrivelled, as if de- 
prived of nourishment ; and although the pollen may 
furnish the larvae with food in the first instance, 
they soon crowd around the lower part of the germen, 
and there, in all probability, subsist on the matter 
destined to have formed the grain* 



Germination of a prain of wheat, n, the heart of the grain, 
the part devoured by tlie insect, b, ha? of the seed, c, the root, 
d, vessels to convey the nutriment for the root, e, feathers con- 
veying the pollen to fructify the seed. 

Another intelligent observer, Mr. Gorrie, of Anna! 
Gardens, Perthshire, found that by the first of August 
all the maggots leave the ears, and go into the ground 
about the depth of half an inch, where it is probable 
they pass the winter in the pupa state t.” 

, It is interesting to learn that this destructive iu- 

? Loudon’s Mag. of Nat. Hist., Nov. 1829, p. 450. 
f Ibid. September, 1829, p. 324. 





IVansformations of the wheat jSjt. a, the female fljr magnified ; 
ft, lafvse, natural faize, feeding ; c, one magnified. 

sect is providentially prevented from multiplying so 
numerously as it might otherwise do, by at least two 
species of ichneumons, which deposit their eggs in the 
larvae. One of these {Encyrtus imerensy Latr.) is 
very small, black, and shining. The other {Platy- 
gaster Tipul^B, Latr.) is also black, with red feet, and a 
blunt tail. These have been frequently mistaken for 
the wheat-iiy ; but as it has only two wings, while they 
have fouTy the distinction is obvious. In order to 
observe the proceedings of the ichneumons, Kirby 
placed a number of the larvae of the wheat-fly on a 
sheet of white paper, and set a female ichneumon in 
the midst of them. She soon pounced upon her vic- 
tim, and intensely vibrating her antennae, and bending 
herself obliquely, plunged her ovipositor into the body 
of the larva, depositing in it a single egg. She then 
passed to a second, and proceeded in the same man- 
ner, depositing a single egg in each. Nay, when 
she examined one which she found had already been 
pricked, she always rejected it and passed to another *. 
Mr. ShirefF repeated these experiments successfully, 
except that he saw an ichneumon twice prick the 
same maggot, which “ writhed in seeming agony,*' 
and “ it was again stung three times by the same 
fly.*’ He adds, “ the earwig also destroys the larvee, 
three of which I successively presented to an earwig, 
which devoured them immediately f.*’ Mr. Gorrie 
describes these ichneumons as appearing in myriads 
^ Linn, Trans, vt supra* f Loudon’s Mag, ut supra* 





on the outside of the ear ; but as impatient of bright 
light, sheltering themselves from the sun's rays 
among the husks. 

Our English naturalists were for many years of 
opinion, that the insect called the Hessian-fly, so 
destructive to wheat crops in America, belonged to 
the same family (Muscidis) with the common house- 
fly ; and Mr. Markwick, an intelligent naturalist, by 
a series of observations on a British fly (Chlorops 
pumilionis, Meigen) which attacks the stems of 
wheat, created no little alarm among agriculturists. 
Markwick’s fly is less than a fourth of an inch in 
length, with dark shoulders striped with two yellow 
lines, and the maggot is white. He planted roots of 
wheat containing larvae in a small flower- pot, and 
covered them with gauze. Each stem produced one 
of the above flies. The crop of wheat attacked by 
this maggot, though at first it appeared to fail, 
turned out well in consequence of numerous side 
shoots. It is only the early wheat sown in October 
that is affected by it *. 




a. The Hessian fly (^Cecidomyia destructor); b, Markmck fly 
Chlurups pumilionis) magnihed. 

It now appears that Markwick was altogether 
mistaken in identifying his insect with the Hessian 
fly (Cecidomyia destructor y Say), which has been 
accurately described by Mr. Say in the “ Journal of 
the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia” 
* Mag. Nat. Hist. July 1829, p. 292. 






for 1817. It is a little larger than our wheat-fly, 
more slender in the body, has longer legs, and is 
not orange, but black and fulvous. The female 
deposits from one to eight or more eggs on a single 
plant of wheat, between the sheath of the inner leaf 
and the stem nearest the roots ; in which situation, 
with its head towards the root or first joint, the 
young larva passes the winter, eating into the stem, 
and causing it to break 

The devastation committed by the Hessian fly 
seems to have been first observed in 1776, and it 
was erroneously supposed that the insect was con- 
veyed among straw by the Hessian troops from Ger- 
many. It was first noticed in the wheat fields of 
Liong Island, from which it spread gradually at the 
rate of fifteen or twenty miles round ; and in 1789 it 
had advanced two hundred miles from its original 
station in Long Island. Other accounts state that it 
did not travel more than seven miles annually, and 
did little serious damage before 1788. Their num- 
bers seem almost incredible. The houses in the 
infested districts swarmed with them to so great a 
degree, that every vessel was filled with them ; five 
hundred were actually counted on a glass tumbler 
which had been set down for a few minutes with a 
little beer in it. They were observed crossing the 
Delaware river like a cloud ; and even mountains do 
not seem to interrupt their progress f. We can well 
understand, therefore, that so formidable a ravager 
should have caused a very great alarm ; and even our 
own government was in fear lest the insect should be 
imported. The privy council, indeed, sat day after 
day in deep consultation what measures should be 
adopted to ward off the danger of a calamity more to 
be dreaded, as they well knew, than the plague or 
the pestilence. Expresses were sent off in all direc- 
* Mag. Nat. Hist., vol. i. p.22S. 





tions to the officers of the customs at the different out- 
ports respecting the examination of cargoes,-— de- 
spatches were written to the ambassadors in France, 
Austria, Prussia, and America, to gain information, — 
and so important altogether was the business deemed, 
that the minutes of council, and the documents col- 
lected from all quarters, fill upwards of two hundred 
pages 

As in the case of the English wheat-fly, the Ame- 
rican Hessian fly has a formidable enemy in a 
minute four-wingedfly destructor. Say), 

which deposits its eggs in the larvae. Were it not 
for the Ceraphron, indeed, Mr. Say is of opinion that 
the crops of wheat would be totally annihilated in 
the districts where the Hessian fly prevails t. 

Those who have, from popular associations, been 
accustomed to look with disgust at the little white 
larvae common in cheese, well known under the name 
of hoppers, will be somewhat surprised to hear the 
illustrious Swammerdam say, “ 1 can take upon me 
to affirm, that the limbs and other parts of this 
maggot are so uncommon and elegant, and con- 
trived with so much art and design, that it is impos- 
sible not to acknowledge them to be the work ot infi- 
nite power and wisdom, from which nothing is hid, 
and to which nothing is impossible J” But who- 
ever will examine it with care, will find that Swam- 
merdam has not exaggerated the facts. 

The cheese-fly {Piophila Casei, Fallen) is very 
small and black, vidth whitish wings, margined with 
black. It was one of those experimented upon by 
Redi to prove that insects, in the fabric of which so 
much art, order, contrivance, and wisdom appear, 

* Young, Annals of Agric., vol. xi. 
t Journ. of Acad. Philadelph. ut supra, 

J Bibl, Naturae, vol. ii. p. 63. 





could not be the production of chance or rottenness, 
but the work of the same Omnipotent hand which 
created the heavens and the earth. This tiny little 
fly is accordingly furnished with an admirable instru- 
ment for depositing its eggs, in an ovipositor, which 
it can thrust out and extend to a great length, so 
that it can penetrate to a considerable depth into the 
cracks of cheese, where it lays its eggs, 256 in 
number. “ I have seen them myself,’* says Swam- 
merdam, “thrust out their tails for this purpose to an 
amazing length, and by that method bury the eggs 
in the deepest cavities. I found in a few days after- 
wards a number of maggots which had sprung from 
those eggs, perfectly resembling those of the first 
brood that had produced the mother fly, I cannot 
but also take notice that the rottenness of cheese is 
really caused by these maggots ; for they both crum- 
ble the substance of it into small particles and also 
moisten it with some sort of liquid, so that the 
decayed part rapidly spreads. I once observed a 
cheese which I had purposely exposed to this kind of 
fly grow moist in a short time in those parts of it 
where eggs had been deposited, and had afterwards 
been hatched into maggots; though, before, the 
cheese was perfectly sound and entire*.” 

The cheese-hopper is furnished with two homy 
claw-shaped mandibles, which it uses both for dig- 
ging into the cheese and for moving itself, being 
destitute of feet. Its powers of leaping have been 
observed by every one ; and Swammerdam says, “ I 
have seen one, whose length did not exceed the 
fourth of an inch, leap out of a box six inches deep, 
that is, twenty-four times the length of its own 
body: others leap a great deal higher t.** For this 
purpose it first erects itself on its tail, which is fur- 
nished with two wart-like projections, to enable it to 

? Swammerdam, vol. ii. p. 69. f Bibl. Nat., vol. ii. p. 65, 





mamtain its balance. It then bends itself into a 
circle, catches the skin near its tail with its hooked 
mandibles, and after strongly contracting itself from 
a circular into an oblong form, it throws itself with a 
jerk into a straight line, and thus makes the leap. 



Cheese hoppers (^Piophila casein Fallen), the maggot ex- 
tended ; 6, in a leaping position; d, the same magnitied ; e, the 
fly magnified ; /, g, the fly, natural size. 

One very surprising provision is remarkable in 
the breathing-tubes of the cheese maggot, which are 
not placed, as in caterpillars, along the sides, but a 
pair near the head and another pair near the tail. 
Now, when burrowing in the moist cheese, these 
would be apt to be obstructed ; but to prevent this, 
it has the power of bringing over the front pair a 
fold of the skin, breathing in the meanwhile through 
the under pair. Well may Swammerdam denomi- 
nate tliese contrivances “ surprising miracles of God's 
power and wisdom in this abject creature.” 

Like the other destructive insects above men- 
tioned, the multiplication of the cheese fly is checked 
by some insect, whose history, so far as we are 
aware, is not yet known. Swammerdam found 
many of the maggots with other larvae in their 
bodies ; but he did not trace their transformations. 
If they were the larvae of an ichneumon, it must be 
exceedingly minute. 

It must have attracted ^he attention of the most 




incurious, to sec, during the summer, swarms of flies 
crowding about the droppings of cattle, so as almost 
to conceal the nuisance, and presenting instead a 
display of their shining corslets and twinkling 
wings. The object of all this busy bustle is to 
deposit their eggs where their progeny may finil 
abundant food ; and the final cause is obviously both 
to remove the nuisance and to provide abundant 
food for birds and other animals, which prey upon 
flies or their larvae. The same remarks apply with 
no less force to the blow flies which deposit their 
eggs, and in some cases their young, upon carcasses. 
The common house fly ^Musca domeiticd) belongs 
to the first division, the natural food of its larvae 
being horse-dung ; consequently it is always most 
abundant in houses in the vicinity of stables, cu- 
cumber beds, &c., to which, when its numbers 
become annoying, attention should be primarily 
directed, rather than having recourse to fly-waters. 

Another common insect {Bibio horiulanus, 
Meigen) lives in the larva state in cesspools, along with 
rat-tailed larvae, &c. The maggot of the bibio is very 
peculiar in form. They are hatched from eggs with 
shells as hard as Paris plaster, deposited on the adja- 
cent walls, and frequently upon the pupa case which the 
mother has previously quitted. Like the larvjE of the 
crane flies above described, this one moves itself chiefly 
by means of its mandibles, and therefore it can make no 
progress on a piece of smooth glass. Its skin, it may 
be remarked, is so exceedingly hard and tough, that 
it is no easy matter to kill it We have introduced 
this insect here, however, chiefly for the purpose of 
refuting an erroneous popular accusation against 
it, which is supported by the high authorities of 
Ray and Rt$aumur. Our great English naturalist 
calls it the deadliest enemy of the flowers in spring, 
and accuses it of despoiling the gardens and fields of 
* Swammerdam, x. 212. 






^very blossom*. iU^aumur is less decided in his opi- 
nion ; for though he perceived that, not being fur- 
nished with mandibles, they could not, as is supposed, 
gnaw the buds of fruit-trees ; yet, from their being 
found crowded upon flowers and buds, he thinks they 
may suck the juices of these, and thus cause them to 
wither f. Wc are satisfied, by repeated observation, 
that the fly only uses its sucker {havMellum) for sip- 
ping the honey of flowers, or the gum with which 
the opening bud is usually covered. The damage 
of which it is accused is more probably done by 
cateri)illars, snails, or other night-feeding insects, 
which, not being seen by day, the fly is blamed for 
what it is entirely innocent ofj. 



Transformations of Bihio hortulanus^ Meigen. a* the ogg 
inagnififed ; h, the same when Imtched ; c, d, the maggot and 
pupa magnified ; e, /, the same, natural size ; ji, the fly. 

In the case of the blow-flies, Linnaeus tells us that 
the larvae of three females of Musca vomitoria will 
devour the carcase of a horse as quickly as would 
a lion ; and we are not indisposed to take this 

* Rsai Hist. Insect, Pref, p. xi., + Reaumur, v, 56. 

1 J. R. 


2 A 2 






literally, when we know that one mother of an allied 
species {M, carnaria) produces about 20,000, and 
that they have been proved by Redi to increase in 
weight two-hundred-fold within twenty-four hours. 
The most extraordinary fact, illustrative of the voracity 
of these maggots which we have met with, is the 
following, given by Kirby and Spence, from “ Bell's 
Weekly Messenger — 

“ On Thursday, June 25th, died at Asbornby, 
Lincolnshire, John Page, a pauper belonging to 
Silk-Willoughby, under circumstances truly singular. 
He being of a restless disposition, and not choosing 
to stay in the parish work-house, was in the habit of 
strolling about the neighbouring villages, subsisting on 
the pittance obtained from door to door : the support 
he usually received from the benevolent was bread and 
meat ; and after satisfying the cravings of nature, it 
was his custom to deposit the surplus provision, par- 
ticularly the meat, betwixt his shirt and skin. Hav- 
ing a considerable portion of this provision in store, 
so deposited, he was taken rather unwell, and laid 
himself down in a field, in the parish of Scredington ; 
when, from the heat of the season at that time, the 
meat speedily became putrid, and was of course 
struck by the flies : these not only proceeded to 
devour the inanimate pieces of flesh, but also literally 
to prey upon the living substance ; and when the 
wretched man was accidentally found by some of the 
inhabitants, he was so eaten by the maggots that his 
death seemed inevitable. After clearing away, as 
well as they were able, these shocking vermin, those 
who found Page conveyed him to Asbornby, and a 
surgeon was immediately procured, who declared that 
his body was in such a state, that dressing it must be 
little short of instantaneous death ; and, in fact, the 
man did survive the operation but a few hours. 
When first found, and again when examined by the 





surgeon, he presented a sight loathsome in the ex* 
treme ; white maggots of enormous size were crawl- 
ing in and upon his body, which they had most 
shockingly mangled, and the removing of the exter- 
nal ones served only to render the sight more horrid.” 
Kirby adds, “ in passing through this parish last 
spring,. I inquired of the mail-coachman whether he 
had heard this story ; and he said the fact was well 
known*.” The year in which this remarkable cir- 
cumstance occurred is not mentioned. 

The importance of the insects just mentioned, in 
removing with great rapidity what might otherwise 
prove nuisances of considerable magnitude, naturally 
leads us to notice another sort of larva, no less useful 
in diminishing the numbers of the plant-lice (^Aphides) 
which do so much damage to cultivated vegetables. 
We do this also the more readily, that these very 
insects, which are so beneficial to the husbandmau 
and the gardener, are often erroneously accused of 
being themselves the cause of the mischief. A corre- 
spondent of the Natural History Magazine, for exam- 
ple, says, “ the lady-bird is remarkably abundant this 
season. The shriraji (larva) of this insect destroys 
both turnips and peas in many parts of England t-*’ 
The truth is, however, that all the species of lady- 
birds (CoccinellidfPy Latr.), both in the larva and the 
perfect state, feed exclusively on aphides, and never 
touch vegetable substances. The eggs are usually 
placed in a group of twenty or more upon a leaf, 
where aphides a^und; and when the young are 
hatched they find themselves in the midst of their 
prey. There are a considerable number of species of 
this family (Mr. Stephens enumerates fifty) ; but the 
most common, perhaps, is the seven- spotted lady- 
bird (Coccinella septempunctata)y whose larva is of 

? Intr.1. 140, and note. f Mag. of Nat. Htst. i. 191. 




oonsiderabie size, and, of course, when abundant, 
must destroy a vast number of aphides. 



Transformations of the lady-bird {Coccinella ^-punctata., 
Linn.) a, the eggs, b, the larva, c, the pupa, d, the beetle, 
e, the same flying. /, Coucinella 20-punctata, Linn., flying. 


The mai^gots of many species of a beautiful femily 
(^Syrphid<s, Leach) of two-winged flies are also 
voracious devourers of the aphides. These larvee are 
of a tapering form, and they can contract or lengthen 
their bodies to a considerable extent ; while they have 
a retractile instrument, armed with three prongs like 
a trident, with which they transfix their helpless and 
hapless victims. “ When disposed to feed,” says 
Kirby, “ he fixes himself by his tail, and being blind, 
gropes about on every side, as the Cyclops did for 
Ulysses and his companions, till he touches one, 
which he immediately transfixes with his trident. 




elevates into the air, that he may not be disturbed with 
its struggles, and soon devours. The havoc which 
these grubs make amongst the aphides is astonish- 
ing. It was but last week that 1 observed the top 
of every young shoot of the currant-trees in my gar- 
den curled up by myriads of these insects. On ex- 
amining them this day, not an individual remained ; 
but beneath each leaf are three or four full-fed larvae of 
aphidivorous flies, surrounded with heaps of the skins 
of the slain, the trophies of their successful warfare 
The larvae of the lace-winged flies {HemerohidtEj 
Leach) are even more destructive to the aphides 
than either of the preceding ; insomuch that Reaumur 
was induced to call them the lions of the aphides. 
The mandibles of the larva of Hemerobius are some- 
what crescent-shaped, and, like those of the ant-lion, 
are hollow, by means of which they suck the juices 
of their victims. These are rarely so numerous as 
the two preceding families, but they make up for 
their fewness in the voracity with which they devour 
the little destroyers of our vegetables. 

* Intr. i. 264. 




Meclianiim of luspendin^ Chrysalldtis. 


A SAILOR would find it no easy process to cut for 
himself a suit of clothes out of a set sail, holding, the 
Awhile, only by the portion that he Was cutting. 
This is an operation which is performed every day by 
the tent-making caterpillars^. Difficult, however, 
as this may be considered to be, it appears as nothing 
when compared with another problem performed by 
a different family of caterpillars. “ Country fellows, 
for a prize,” says Kirby, “ sometimes amuse the 
assembled inhabitants of a village by running races 
in sacks : take one of the most active and adroit of 
these, bind him hand and foot, suspend him by the 
bottom of his sack, head downwards, to the branch 
of a lofty tree ; make an opening in one side of the 
sack, and set him to extricate himself from it, to de- 
taieh it from its hold, and suspend himself by his feet 
in its place. Though endowed with the suppleness 
of an Indian juggler, and promised his sack full of 
gold for a reward, you would set him an absolute 
impossibility; yet this is what our caterpillars, in- 
structed by a beneficent Creator, easily perform f.*’ 
The manner in which this is effected we shall now 
describe. 

A caterpillar, when about to change into a chry- 
* See Insect Architecture; p. 223. f Intr. iii. 209. 





salis, usually steals away from the plant on which it 
has been feeding, to find some secluded corner where 
it may undergo its transformation unmolested ; as if 
it were previously aware that it would no longer be 
able to escape from its enemies. Those which we 
shall first notice climb up the highest objects near 
them, such as walls, gates, palings, and trees, under 
the projections of which they think they may begin 
their operations in safety. Thus we once found a ca- 
terpillar of the small tortoiseshell butterfly upon the 
branch of a fir-tree, in Epping Forest, from ten to 
twelve feet above its native patch of nettles below ; 
and we have seen the cabbage butterfly under the 
lintel of a window on the third story*. 

Having thus selected a safe spot, the caterpillar 
begins, in order to attach itself securely, to weave a 
mooring of silk, the structure of which is well worthy 
of notice. The threads of which this is composed are 
so fine, that they are not easily distinguished ; and 
we recollect being not a little astonished at seeing a 
chrysalis of the admirable butterfly {Vanessa Ata- 
lanta) hanging within an inverted glass tumbler, 
where we had confined it, the silk being transparent, 
and all but invisible. It is necessary, therefore, in 
order to see it distinctly, to confine the caterpillars 
within a black box or other vessel. The silk threads 
are not drawn tight along, so as to be parallel with 
the surface, but are formed into a sort of projecting 
button, the caterpillar, for this purpose, alternately 
raising and depressing its head over the spot so as to 
draw out the threads, in the same way as a tambour- 
ing needle is worked in making a dot upon muslin : 
the base is accordingly made the broadest part, and 
the centre the most projecting, for a reason which 
will immediately appear. 

When it has flnished this little button of silk 

? J.R. 





(i, Caterpillar of Vanessa Antiopa weaving its button of silk. 
h, suspended by its hinder pro-legs irom the silk button . e, bend- 
ing in order to spUt the old skin. 

which is thickly interlaced and strongs, it turns round 
to examine it with its hinder pair of pro-legs ; and if 
it judges it to be sufficiently firm, it thrusts these 
among the meshes, taking secure hold with the nu- 
merous hooks with which these are fringed*, and 
swings itself fearlessly into the air, hanging with its 
head downwards. Ail this seems easy enough of 
perfbrmance, but it is only preliminary ; for it has 
still to throw off its skin, together with the hooks by 
which it is suspended, and this without losing its 
hold. The old skin is rent by the forcible bending 
round of the upper part of the body, which pushes 
through some of the angular projections of the chry- 
salis — a tedious and probably a painful operation, in 
See Insect Architecture^ p. 307, right hand figure. 





which it is often engaged the greater part of a day, 
and sometimes two, according to its strength. 'When 
the first rent is made, however, the included chrysalis 
soon wedges itself through the breach, the lower por- 
tion swelling out greatly more than the upper, so as 
to form an inverted but somewhat irregular cone. 
The included insect continuing its laborious exertions, 
by successively contracting and dilating the rings of its 
body, pushes off the now rent skin by degrees from the 
head towards the tail, as the sack-racers mentioned 
by Kirby would disengage themselves from the sacks 
in which they were inclosed, or as one would roll 
down a stocking from the leg. There are two cir- 
cumstances worthy of notice in this process : the 
position of the insect in hanging with its head down- 
wards, throws a greater portion of the fluids of the 
body towards the head, by means of their weight, 
which swell out the part that splits ; and also pushes 
back the old skin, while the sloughing skin is pre- 
vented from resiliating by a series of pegs, which act 
like the toothed rack of a sluice-gate. The old skin, 
being by these means pushed towards the tail, is of 
course compressed into several folds, which in some 
degree prevent the extension of the rent, and serve 
to keep the chrysalis from falling ; for being now 
detached from the skin, it has no hold upon the 
meshes of the silk button, and is, in fact, at some 
distance from it. 

This, then, is the part of the process where the 
nicety of the mechanism is most worthy of admira- 
tion ; for the hooks by which the insect i^ in the first 
instance suspended from the meshes of the silk are 
sloughed off, together with the skin, the grasp of 
whose folds becomes then the only support of the 
chrysalis. But this chrysalis, now deprived of feet, 
and some distance from the suspensory cordage of silk, 
has still to reach this, fix itself there, and cast off the 





sloughed skin altogether. This operation causes, says 
Bonnet, a spectator to tremble for the consequences, 
for every movement seems to render its iall almoK;^^ 
certain. It is, however, provided with means which 
answer the same purpose as hands, to enable it to 
climb ; it can elongate and contract at pleasure the 
rings of its body. It accordingly, with two con- 
tiguous rings, lays hold, as with a pair of pincers, of 
the portion of the sloughed skin nearest the head ; and 
elongating the rings beyond this, seizes upon a more 
distant portion, while it lets go the first. Repeating 
this process several times, it at length arrives at the 
silk button. 



pupa. 

The tail of a chrysalis, to an ordinary observer, 
would appear smooth, and quite unfitted for being 


Suspension op PuPifl. 





fixed to the silk in such a manner as to sustain its 
weight ; but careful examination discovers that it has 
been furnished with an efficient apparatus ibr this 
purpose, in a number of very minute hooks, similar 
to those of the pro-legs which have been sloughed off. 
Feeling about then with its tail for the silk, it insinu' 
ales these hooks among the meshes, and being no 
longer in danger of falling, it can swing secure, 
as it had previously done in the caterpillar state. 

Reaumur has, however, seen some chrysalides 
fall before they completed the process, in conse- 
quence, as he thinks, of having spun too slight a 
mesh-work of silk. In order to ascertain the cor- 
rectness of this inference, we tried a series of experi- 
ments upon a considerable number of a brood of the 
peacock butterfly {Vanessa lo), the same upon which 
Reaumur made his observations. We allowed some 
to spin only half the usual portion, and removed them 
to another station. Here they eagerly recommenced 
the task, and, if left unmolested, never fell from the 
spot; but if previously removed a second time, they 
seldom succeeded in completing the process in the 
usual way. They did not, indeed, in such cases, 
attempt spinning an imperfect silken suspensory; but 
abandoning in despair what they felt themselves in- 
capable of performing, they crept down to the bottom 
of the nurse box, and cast their skins without having 
anything to which they could attach themselves*. 

When the hooks of a chrysalis have been properly 
fixed among the meshes, it remains suspended con- 
tiguous to the skin which it has just cast ; but not 
liking the neighbourhood of its now useless spoil, it 
sets itself to get rid of it. For this purpose it con- 
torts itself in various ways, sometimes assuming a 
figure similar to an S, so that it may push against 
* J. R, 






the spines of the old skin ; ancl then giving itself a 
sudden jerk, it spins itself rapidly round a dozen or 
twenty times. Rt^aumur says that this gyration 
usually throws off the slough, in consequence of its 
being farther from the centre of motion, and there- 
fore exposed to a greater centrifugal force ; but un- 
luckily for this refined philosophy, it is not the silk 
button, but the chrysalis which spins round, and con- 
sequently the old skin does not twirl at all, and only 
moves like a pendulum ; — ^the best method, evidently, 
of disengaging the hooks it hangs by. Besides, the 
threads of the silk are not broken by the gyration, as 
Reaumur, followed by Kirby and Spence, asserts ; 
otherwise the weight of the chrysalis would to a cer- 
tainty break its threads, more easily than the sup- 
posed centrifugal force would break those which 
suspend the slough. Repeated observation has satis- 
fied us, therefore, that the twirling of the chrysalis is 
both for the purpose of disengaging the old skin and 
strengthening its own hold*. Bonnet may be right 
or wrong in thinking the stimulus of the spines of the 
old skin is the cause of the twirling : we have ob- 
served that the insects which change into chrysalides. 



a, 6, front and side view of chrysalides of Vanessa urticee sus- 
pended by their anal hooks, c, anal hooks magnified, d, old 
skin fallen off. 


* J. R. 






after being removed from their suspensories, also roll 
about and manifest great uneasiness* 

But this is only one mode by which chrysalides 
are suspended ; for nature, rich in variety, has taught 
others to employ a different mechanism, and consi- 
derably more complicated, not only fixing themselves 
by the tail, but throwing around their body a girdle 
of silk, which binds it firmly to the spot selected, and 
frequently in a horizontal position. Amongst those, 
the caterpillars of the pretty butterflies called by col- 
lectors hairstreaks (ThecleBy Fabr.), are remarkable, 
both for their resemblance in shape to the common 
woodlouse (Oniscus), and for their singular proceed- 
ings. In order to construct a silken cincture around the 
middle of its body, after it has secured itself at the tail, 
the Theda draws back its head, and pushing out its 
spinneret on one side, forms an arched thread by pass- 
ing it over to the other side. It then insinuates its 
head under this thread, and pressing the fore part of its 
body down as closely as possible, it contrives to place 
the girth over its middle. This circumstance is the more 
remarkable when it is considered that the silk is so 
fine as scarcely to be distinguishable to the eye, and 
that the back of the caterpillar over which it has to pass 
is thickly bestudded with spines. Th^ caterpillars, in- 
deed, of this whole family (LyccBncdidm, Leach), 
which includes our splendid blue and copper butter- 
flies, seem to follow the same process, repeating it 
from thirty to fifty times, in order to strengthen the 
band. As the caterpillars of the family just men- 
tioned are but seldom found, those who are desirous 
of observing the formation of the cincture of a chry- 
salis may readily gratify their curiosity by watching 
a brood of any of the native white butterflies, as 
those of the cabbage or of the hawthorn (Pieris 
Crateegiy Stephens). A caterpillar of this kind, 
* Bonnet; CEuvreS, vol. ii., p. 109. 

2 B 2 



 


however, though it forms a silken suspensory girth 
similar to the LyccRnmdtB^ constructs it in a different 
manner. Instead of retracting its head, it takes 
advantage of its great pliability, and bending itself 
nearly double, fixes a thread, carrying it over to the 
other side simply by turning its head. It repeats 
this process a great number of times, till it has 
formed a packet of threads sufficient for its cincture. 
It then stretches its head out into a right line with 
the body, and remains in this position till it casts its 
skin. The usual position of the chrysalides belong- 
ing to the family {Papilionidm^ Leach) in question, 
is horizontal ; but they frequently also hang vertically, 
and at different angles. We possess one of the large 
garden white butterfly {Pontia BrassictB)^ which 
was bound horizontally on the upper surface of a 
leaf of the abele tree (Populus alba)y being laid, and 
not hung, as is almost the invariable practice of the 
species. The leaf, moreover, is drawn together in 



a, Caterpillar of the black-veined white butterfly spinning its 
gUKpensory band. 6, chrysalis horizontally bound to a branch. 
c, we butterfly (^Pieris Cratceffi)^ siualler than in nature. 




the manner of the leaf-rollers, another most unusual 
and remarkable circumstance 

Another caterpillar of the same family, that of 
the swallow-tailed butterfly (Papilio Machadn^ 
liiNN.), one of our finest but local native insects, 
having a body less pliable than the preceding, has 
recourse to a still different method of forming a 
cincture. The proceedings of this beautiful cater- 
pillar, distinguished by two retractile horns, like 
those of a snail, may be illustrated by the mode in 
which a skein of silk is wound from the hand. The 
insect first attaches the end of his thread to the spot 
selected for hanging up the chrysalis, such as the 
bend of a branch of fennel or wild carrot, on which he 
has been feeding ; and extends it outwards by the 
hooks on his claws, by whicih means he keeps it 
stretched till he fixes it on the other side, forming a 



Caterpillar of the swallow-tailed butterfly, weaving its sus- 
pensory cincture, ft, . the caterpillar suspended for its change, 
c, the chrysalis sospeaded in a similar manner. 


* J. R. 




loop about twice the diameter of his body. He re- 
peats this process successively till he has spun forty, 
sixty, or as many threads as he deems strong enough 
for his cincture ; and then throwing it over his head 
towards the middle of his body, he proceeds to dis* 
encumber himself of his old skin. 

As the numerous threads composing the cincture 
are not glued together, but remain separate, it some- 
time happens that they slip, in whole or in part, from 
the claws of the caterpillar ; and Rt$aumur had one 
which was foiled in all its efforts to repair such an 
accident. It did not, indeed, make any attempt to 
spin a fresh cincture, probably from its materials 
being exhausted or from want of strength ; so that 
when it could not recover the fallen and entangled 
threads, it collected a few of them, suspended in 
which it cast its skin, but they, being too weak to sus- 
tain it, gave way, and it fell and perished *. 

We will not revert in this place to the varied con- 
trivances of those insects which construct coverings 
either of silk or other materials for inclosing their 
pupae, such as the silk worm, the puss-moth cater- 
pillar, the tent-makers, &c. ; but there is one family 
whose proceedings are so singular that they well 
merit investigation. We refer to the numerous spe- 
cies of what are indefinitely termed common flies, 
(Muscidai), and some families allied to them. Un- 
like most other larvae, these never cast their skins, 
not even when they change into pupae. The mag- 
got of the common blow-fly (Musca vomitorid)^ for 
example, when about to undergo its transformation, 
quits the carcase where it has been feeding, and bur- 
rows for an inch or two into the first soft earth it can 
meet with. Here it draws in its body into a shorter 
compass, and the soft skin being thus condensed, 


* Mem. 8ur les lasecte?, vob. i. ix« 






it acquires in thickness what it loses in extension : its 
moisture, also, disappearing by evaporation, or more 
probably by internal absorption, it becomes hard and 
tough, like thin parchment, and of a dull reddish- 
brown colour. The form is now that of an oblong 
ball ; and it was from that circumstance termed an egg 
by Redi and other early naturalists, — a term at which 
Swammerdam takes great offence in this instance. 
The various changes undergone by the included insect 
were traced from hour to hour by Reaumur with his 
usual patience and accuracy: but few of the minute 
circumstances detailed by him would probably interest 
our readers; except that in casting its mandibles, 
which are henceforth useless, they are not thrown off 
on the outside of the case, but remain on the inside. 

Were such an extraordinary transformation as this 
to happen to one of the larger animals, it would be 
held forth as altogether miraculous. Were a lion or 
an elephant, for example, to coil itself up into a ball, 
compressing its skin into twice the thickness and half 
the extent, while it remained uniform in shape and 
without joinings or openings ; and, at the same time, 
were it entirely to separate its whole body from this 
skin, and lie within it, as a kernel does in a nut, or a 
chick in an egg, throwing off its now useless tusks 
into a corner, — and then, after a space, should it 
acquire wings, break through the envelope, and take 
its flight through the air, — there would be no bounds 
to our admiration. Yet the very same circumstances 
in miniature take place every day during summer, 
almost under the eye of every individual, in the case 
of the blow fly, without attracting the aticntion of one 
person in a million. 

The maggots of the genus of two-winged flies 
(Syrphidee) mentioned above as feeding voraciously 
on aphides, do not, like those of the blow fly, burrow 
in the earth, but attach themselves to a leaf or a 




branch. Bein^ furnished with a species of adhesive 
gluten, a maggot of this sort applies a portion of this 
with its mouth to the spot which it has selected fbr 
its transformation, and, pressing its body upon it, 
becomes immoveably glued down there. When thus 
securely fixed, it contracts and shortens its body 
similarly to the maggot of the blow-fly ; but, instead of 
becoming like that, uniformly oblong, the head swells 
out and the tail becomes slender, till it terminates in 
a point, just reversing the previous form of the mag- 
got, which is rounded at the tail and pointed at the 
head. When the change is completed, indeed, it 
is a good deal in the form of one of Prince Rupert’s 
glass drops. When we first met with these pup», in* 
deed, we concluded they were galls, and were not a 
little surprised to see large wasp-looking flies issue 
from them ; but as they may be found in considerable 
abundance, it becomes easy to gratify curiosity and 
to confirm the facts just stated. It may not be out of 
place to remark, that several species of ichneumon 
b 



tt, Fnpa of blow fly. h, the same magnified, c, head of pupa- 
rium opened to shew the cast mandibles, dt, pupa.of syrphut* 






flies make reprisals upon them for their destruction of 
the helpless aphides. Swammerdam observed eight 
of these parasites issue from one pupa of a Syrphus^ 

The lady-birds (Coccinellidee) glue their pupae to 
leaves in much the same manner with the flies just 
mentioned : but their skin, instead of becoming smooth, 
wrinkles up by the shortening of the body of the 
grub ; because it is not so soft and pliable, and 
cannot, therefore, be compressed. The interior, how- 
ever, is smooth t. 

Those insects which live during their first stages 
in the water, exhibit a very different economy when 
they change from larvae into nymphs, as may be 
exemplified in the May-flies (Ephemeridas) and the 
dragon-flies (Libellulina). But as these will require to 
be described in a future page, we shall content our- 
selves at present with an account of an interesting 
but minute species of tipulidan gnat {Corethra plu~ 
micornisy Meigen), of a straw colour, whose history 
was first given by Reaumur and De Geer. The 
latter was induced, from the beautiful transparency 
of the larva, to name it Tipvla cristallina , — a qua- 
lity which renders it, its size being also very minute, 
rather difficult to discover : it is, however, a good 
subject for microscopical observations. Taking ad- 
vantage of the recent improvements in microscopes. 
Dr. Goring has accordingly given coloured figures 
both of the larva and pupa, as observed by him, in 
which he has added a few minute details | that are 
not in the otherwise very accurate figures of Reau- 
mur. 

The larva is rather less than a quarter of an inch 
long, and somewhat resembles in form those of the 
same family, particularly in the parts about the head, 

* Part ii., p. 99. t J. R. 

X Goring and Pritchard’s Nat. Hist., No. 1 ; and Reaumur, vol. 
V., mem. 1. 


 


the mandibles being horny, jointed, and capable of 
uniting into one pointed borer. The tail is furnished 
with plumed bristles, which appear to serve the pur- 
pose of fins. The nearer this crystalline larva is to 
its transformation, the more distinctly may be seen 
four kidney-shaped transparent bodies, of a brown 
colour, a pair on the fourth ring from the tail, and 
another pair at the shoulders. The former, perhaps, 
serve to inclose the tail fins of the pupa ; the latter 
the horns of the pupa, which again encase the an- 
tenna of the gnat ; but in another species (fiorethra 
culiciformis) De Geer supposed these to be respi- 
ratory organs. We are not aware that this larva has 
been actually seen to cast its skin, but there can be 
no doubt of the fact, for Rt^aumur found exuviae at 
the bottom of the glasses where he kept them* ; and 
we are not, consequently, authorized to assert that its 
transformation is “ not effected, as in other insects, 
by casting the outer skin, but by an actual conver- 
ijiou of' one form of matter into another We 
watched above a hundred of them without being so 
fortunate as to see their transformation into pupse, 
though we more than once observed the emergence 
of the fly. 

Our chief reason, however, for introducing it here, 
is to shew tlie mode in which the pupa is suspended, 
or rather buoyed up, in the water, by means of its 
foliated tail and the shape of its body, which is 
bulged out above, and narrowed as it approaches the 
lower extremity. It is, besides, very lively in the 
pupa state, and jerks about with great agility, but 
usually keeps close to the surface of the water, so as 
to project its horns or antenn® cases above it. In 
the figures we have endeavoured to combine the 
details of Reaumur and Dr. Goring. 

* Reaumur, vol. v., p. 41-2. 

•f Goring and Pritchard, Nat. Hist., No, 1, p.23. 




a a, larva of Corethra plumicornis magfnified. h, theraan- 
dibles and palpi, c, the respiratory fins, d, the pupa ma^rnified. 
e, pupa, natural size, f, larva, natural size, the female fly. 
A, the male fly. 


We possess a small aquatic pupa which is furnished 
at the tail with four horny hooks resembling* the 
prickles on the stem of a rose-tree, and evidently 
intended as suspensory appendages. It was found 
hanging to a deal board, which had been immersed 
in running water, and seems from its form to be the 
pupa of a moth (fiydrocampa ?)*. 


* J.R. 






Form and Structure of Pupa, 


The figures delineated in the preceding chapter shew 
how different in form many pupae are, both from 
their larvae and from the insects to be afterwards 
evolved from them, — as different, indeed, as the form 
of a bud from the seedling tree, or from the leaf, 
branch, or blossom, which is destined to shoot from it. 
Pupae, as we formerly remarked, have as striking an 
analogy to the buds of plants, as eggs have to seeds ; 
— and this is the more necessary to be insisted on, 
that their nature .has been grossly misrepresented 
even by authors of eminence, and, in other matters, of 
unquestionable accuracy. The term Metamorphosis^ 
so long applied to the various stages of insect life, 
has been one of the chief means of propagating the 
erroneous views in question, inasmuch as it implies 
a supernatural change like those described in the 
poetical fables of Ovid. The term Traiirformation, 
though not perhaps free from a similar implication, 
is much less strong and less likely to mislead. 

That our objection does not originate in hypercri- 
tical nicety, but is of no little importance with regard 
to the accurate knowledge of the history of insects, 
could be proved by reference to many well-known 
works of natural history; but we shall limit our 
illustrations to one or two of those strange fancies 
which have obscured and perplexed this branch of 
our subject. 

We shall begin with the illustrious Harvey, — the 
discoverer of the circulation of the blood, — ^who, in 





his exercitations on the generation of animals, says — 
“ There are two ways in which we observe one thing 
to be made out of another (as out of matter), both 
in art and nature, especially in the generation of 
animals: one is, when a thing is made out of ano- 
ther already in being, as a bed out of wood, and 
a statue out of a stone ; when, for example, all 
the materials of the workmanship exist before the 
workman begins the work or attempts to give it any 
form. The other way is, when the stuff receives both 
being and form at the same time. As, therefore, the 
works of art are performed two ways ; the one by the 
workman’s dividing, cutting, and paring away the 
matter prepared for those operations, so as to leave 
behind, like a statuary, the figure of the thing he 
intends to make : the other, by the workman’s adding 
and moulding, as well as paring away, the materials, 
and at the same time tempering the matter itself, so 
as to produce, like a potter, the figure ; which, for 
this reason, may be said to be made, rather than 
formed; — in the same manner it happens in the 
generation of animals ; some of which are formed and 
transfigured out of matter already digested and in- 
creased for this purpose, all the parts springing out 
together distinctly by a kind of metamorphosis, and 
thus forming a perfect animal, while other animals 
are made piece by piece.” 

He proceeds to tell us, that the generation of insects 
is performed after the first manner; the egg, by 
metamorphosis, producing the worm ; or matter in a 
state of putrefaction, when it becomes too dry or too 
moist, producing the primary rudiments ; and these 
again, by metamorphosis, a caterpillar, which, when 
grown to its full size, is metamorphosed into an aurelia 
{pupa)y a butterfly, or a common fly. “ Bees,” he 
subjoins, “ wasps, hornets, or butterflies, and whatever 




Other animals are generated by metamorphosis from a 
creeping insect, are said to be the offspring of chance, 
and therefore never to keep up their species. But 
the lion or cock are never produced spontaneously or 
by chance. In the generation by metamorphosis, 
animals are fashioned as it were by the impression of 
a seal, or framed in a curious mould, all the matter 
of which they consist being transformed 

Goedart, a later naturalist of eminence, both falls 
into the foolish fancy of supposing that the form of 
the human face can be traced in the chrysalis, of 
which he has actually given a figure in his plates, 
as Rtjaumur has done after him ; and also tells us, 
“ that wherever the legs are situated in the cater- 
pillar, there is placed the back of the insect which is 
to arise by transmutation; and, on the contrary, 
where the back of the caterpillar was, there are the 
legs in the insect to be produced from it. This 
metamorphosis,” he adds, “ is performed in a short 
space of time, so that it may be distinctly seen ; be- 
cause, immediately after shedding its skin, this change 
appears to the eyet-’’ 

Had this most absurd and untrue doctrine passed 
into oblivion, or become obsolete, we should have 
passed it by in silence ; but as, like many of the 
theories of former *ages, it often meets us even in 
modern books J, where we might least expect to find 
it, we deemed it proper to give it in the language of 
two of its most eminent advocates, which Swammer- 
dam justly says contains almost as many errors as 
words. The best method of opposing and over- 
turning error being the simple explanation of the 
truth, we snaii proceed to describe the form and 

* Harvey, de General. Anim., Exercit. xlv. 
f De Insectis, Exp. 77. 

* Sec our quotation from Goring and Pritchard; p. 286. 





structure of pupas, rather than stop to refiite cir- 
cumstantially the preceding theory of Harvey and 
Goedart. 

In the pupa state, then, we may remark, that the 
legs, wings, and other external appendages of the 
insect, are, in the greater number of instances, closely 
folded up and enveloped by an external covering, 
usually of a membranous structure, and differing 
considerably both from the skin of the larva and from 
that of the perfect insect. It is as different, indeed, 
as the winter envelope of the bud of a tree is from 
the bark or from the cuticle of a leaf. The angular 
forms exhibited in some chrysalides, are for the pur- 
pose of encasing particular limbs, &c. of the insect 
which Providence has not seen meet to fold down 
smoothly to the body. The spines, hooks, and hairs, 
again, which are also of occasional occurrence, and 
which Goedart strangely enough mistook for feet*, 
are manifestly for aiding the animal in casting its old 
skin, as has been explained in a preceding page; 
while the grooves, ridges, and other markings, are 
the indications of the various members of the insects 
folded up, or otherwise disposed under them. 

As we have shown all the parts of the perfect insect 
contained in the caterpillar, so these can be much 
more easily exhibited in the pupa, particularly when 
near its final change ; for in more early periods the 
substance is so soft and pulpy — almost fluid indeed 
— that it would be next to impossible to develop 
them artificially. In some pupae the parts can even 
be seen through the membranous envelope, which in 
other cases requires, for this purpose, to be removed. 
In order to exhibit this, we shall select a few instances 
in which the facts may be readily verified, by those 
who will take the trouble of breeding the insects. 

The first we shall advert to is that of the chame- 
* Goedart, de Insectis, 77. 



leon fly {Stratiomys chameleori), whose singular 
larva we formerly described When this draws near 
the period of its transformation, it leaves the water, 
betaking itself to the adjacent bank, or to the plants 
which float on the water, creeping up so as to leave 
only a part of its tail submersed. In this position 
it remains, contracting itself by degrees in a manner 
scarcely perceivable, and losing all power of loco- 
motion. The internal portion of the tail at the same 
time separates gradually and insensibly from the 
exterior skin, becoming greatly contracted ; and, ga- 
thering into three or four curvatures, the extremity is 
thereby left empty. Into this space the air penetrates 
and soon fills the place previously occupied by the 
body, which is now contracted to one-third of its 
former size. When the air is prevented by too much 




A, Pupa of diameleon fly, with the lid of the pnpariuxn raised. 
B, the same maRiiifled, and the puparium laid open to shew the 
embryo fly. C, tlie embryo fly magfnified : — a a, antennae ; b 6, 
the eyes; c, sucker; d d, first pair of leffs ; <? e, second pair; 
//, the wings folded up ; gh u rings of the body j A A, breathing- 
tubes. 





moisture from entering and distending the «kin, it 
shrivels up; but this occurs seldom. If the old skin, 
now become detached and forming a tubular enve- 
lope, be cut open, the pupa will be brought into view, 
exhibiting the parts of the future fly neatly folded 
down upon the body, as may be seen in the figure. 

This is one of the larvae which Swammerdam ob- 
served to cast, along with its external skin, the lining 
of the intestines, and breathing-tubes likewise, which, 
he remarks, “ is very singular, and amazingly shows 
the miracles of God, teaching at the same time how 
the former body is entirely cast off and renewed 
The pupa, when exposed in the preceding manner, is 
of a bright green colour, interspersed with white 
transparent particles, and the spiracles of the wind- 
pipe glittering like pearls. 

When the pupa of the lappit moth {Gastropacha 
quercifolia) is disengaged from the cocoon, it has 
much the appearance of an Egyi^tian mummy, or an 
infant in the old-fashioned swaddling bands. The 
feet are crossed over the breast, and folded closely 
down nearly in the same manner as in the instance 
of the chameleon fly just mentioned ; but the wings 
are compressed into a very small compass. This 
appears the more remarkable as the wings of the 
moth are large and conspicuous, and so like the 
withered leaf of an oak, both in form and colour, that 
the insect would readily impose upon a careless 
observer. It is, we believe, the only British example 
of what have been popularly termed leaf insects, — 
which have given origin to the fanciful and untenable 
theory of intentional deception on the part of Provi- 
dence. It was by opening one of these pupae that 
R(?aumur first discovered the various sheaths appro- 
priated to the feet, the antennae, and the wings ; the 
sheath of the suck^ (haustellum) being wanting, as it 
* Bibl. Nat. vol. ii. p. 54. 

 


is obsolescent in the moth. It is furnished, however, 
with a peculiar horn or projection on the forehead, 
—the palpi — which the theorists to whom we have 
alluded might term its leaf stalk. 



a. Pupa of lappit moth, under side of the moth, with its 

feet folded up. c, side view of the same. 

We can demonstrate the same position still more 
obviously in the chrysalis of a butterfly, — ^for ex- 
ample, in that of the peacock {Vanessa Jo), whose ca- 
terpillars feed on the nettle. This chrysalis is an- 
gular like the others of the genus, — the two termi- 
nating angles encasing the eyes, and the four lateral 
ones the marginal folds of the wings, the contour of 
which is disposed on what may be called the shoulder 
of the chrysalis (Ptero-theca, Kirby). The legs, an- 
tennae, and sucker, are folded down longitudinally 
upon the breast, very similarly to what occurs in the 
moth just described. When the membranous cover- 
ing, which is thinner but more firm and elastic than 
Indian paper, has been carefully removed, — selecting 
for this operation an advanced period of the chrysalis, 
— the several members of the butterfly may be seen 



folded up in the manner we have here indicated. 
The wings are still covered with moisture, so that the 
powdery down which clothes them is scarcely visible, 
and they have not yet assumed their beautiful colours 
and elegant markings, but are of a dusky ash-grey. 
The legs, however, are already so firm that the insect 
moves them about, and also coils up its sucker, and 
plays its antennae. It is worthy of remark, that the 




a, under side of the clirjsalis of the peacock butterfly. the 
wines and antennae traced out from the same, c, the perfect in* 
sect t Vanessa lo) fully developed* 



ixtecabmi^e which i^overs the more prominentl|c exposed 
parts, such as the legs, is considerably thicker than the 
other portions Our description will be rendered 
more intelligible by the preceding figures. 

It will obviously appear from these details, in what 
manner superficial observations led to the fancy of 
one insect being on a sudden miraculously metamor- 
phosed or transmuted into another. Those, indeed, 
who persuaded themselves that a morsel of tainted 
beef, or a bit of rotten wood, could, by some inexpli- 
cable chemistry, grow into limbs, wings, eyes, and all 
the other parts of an insect, with its admirable orga- 
nization of muscles, nerves, and digestive apparatus, 
had no difficulty to overcome in believing that the 
green pulpy mass of a chrysalis could be transmuted 
into the light airy wings of a butterfly: — nay, they con- 
sidered the matter as proved, and admired the sup- 
posed metamorphosis, without giving themselves the 
trouble of investigating whether it was real or possi- 
ble t- Accurate observation, founded on the princi- 
ples of the Baconian philosophy, gradually put to 
flight the reveries of those who (to use the words of 
Harvey) “ philosophize by traduction, who are not a 
whit wiser than the inanimate books through which 
they come at their ill-digested notions J.” Yet this 
distinguished physiologist, though he could so express 
himself, occasionally struck upon the very sand-bank 
of which he here warns us to take care ; perhaps in 
consequence of a cause shrewdly and profoundly 
assigned for philosophical errors by Des Cartes, in 
his Essay on Method, who says, “ I was always of 
opinion, that more truth is to be found in those 
reasonings which men make use of in the common 
affairs of life, whose bad success may prove a kind ot‘ 
punishment for their reasoning ill, than those which 
* Swammerdam, vol. li. p. 17 . 

t Reaumur, vol. i. p. 350. f Harvey, De Gen. An., Exer. 44. 






some idle doctor, cooped up in his study, has in- 
vented, that conduce nothing to the ease and happi- 
ness of life, and from which he expects no other ad- 
vantage unless that of reaping so much the greater 
harvest of empty glory from his arguments ; as they 
contain less of truth and common sense, on account 
of the extraordinary strength of genius and applica- 
tion requisite to give an imposing air to such ab- 
surdities.** 

It was the decided opinion of Swammerdam that 
the several transformations of insects, particularly the 
change from the egg to the caterpillar, and from the 
pupa to the perfect insect, are chiefly effected by the 
evaporation of the superabundant fluids. Thus he 
tells us that the nit, or egg of the louse {Pediculus 
kiimanus), is nothing more than the insect itself, 
which only requires the evaporation of the surround- 
ing moisture and the casting of the old skin, to bring 
it to its perfect form *, It is not a little surprising 
that so very accurate a naturalist should never have 
thought of investigating the truth of such an opinion 
by experiment. That he neglected this precaution, is 
an instance, among thousands more, of the imperfec- 
tion of human studies ; for his very first trial would 
have demonstrated the error, which pervades every 
page of his great work. He was evidently misled 
into the opinion by perceiving how fluid the contents 
of an egg or of a pupa are when opened previous to 
their change, and how dry the insect is upon its 
evolution. 

It is much more surprising to find Kirby and 
Spence repeating the same, or nearly the same opi- 
nion, at the very time, too, when they are in the act 
of quoting the experiments of Rt5aumur, by which it 
is refuted, though the great experimenter himself mis- 
interpreted them. “ If you open a pupa,** say they, 
^ Swammerdam, passim. 





“ soon after its assumption of that state, you will find 
its interior filled with a milky fluid, in the midst of 
which the rudiments of its future limbs and organs, 
themselves almost as fluid, swim. Now the end to 
be accomplished during the pupa’s existence is, the 
gradual evaporation of the watery parts of this fluid, 
and the developement of the organs of the enclosed 
animal by the absorption and assimilation of the resi- 
duum*.” The evaporation, however, is so very 
inconsiderable, that it is evidently only of secondary 
consequence. 

When the great quantity of fluid in the body of thp 
chrysalis is taken into consideration, we must infer 
that if it were evaporated to any extent, the insect 
would be reduced to a mere shadow. We are dis- 
posed, therefore, to agree with Rt^aumur in thinking 
it more probable that the fluids of pupte become 
united to the more solid parts, in the same way 
as the blood and lymph in oui* own bodies go 
to the extension or to the repair of our bones and 
muscles. To put this to the test of experiment, 
Reaumur, in the month of J uly, accurately weighed 
two chrysalides the instant they were disencumbered 
of the sloughs of the larvae. The lightest weighed a 
trifle less than 18, and the heavier a trifle less than 
19 grains. Putting them aside separately, with a 
note of their respective weights, he re-weighed them 
every two or three days for sixteen days successively, 
that is, till they were transformed into perfect insects. 
On the last day, the lighter weighed more than 17, 
and the heavier more than 18 grains ; consequently 
the fluid evaporated during this peried did not amount 
to a grain, perhaps not to more than f of a grain. On 
weighing the insects themselves which issued from 
these pupa, together with the cast slough, the weight 
was not sensibly diflerent. The fluid, therefore, 
* Introd. iii, 262. 



which escapes by what is termed insensible perspi- 
ration, is not so great as might have been supposed. 
To ascertain what it was, Reaumur enclosed several 
chrysalides, whose envelope seemed very dry, hi se- 
parate glass tubes, terminating at one end in a bulb, 
and at the other hermetically sealed. He kept these 
in a temperature of from 14° to 15° of his own 
thermometer, corresponding to 63° — 65° Fahr. ; and 
in a few days minute drops of water appeared on the 
sides of the tube, which rolled down into the bulb 
in form of a larger drop — not “ eight or ten large 
drops,’* as Kirby and Spence, by some oversight, 
have stated 

It would certainly be considered a strange and 
untenable doctrine to maintain that it is the evapo- 
ration produced from the egg by the heat of the in- 
cubating mother, which causes the development of 
the chick in the egg ; yet this is precisely similar to 
what is maintained by Swammerdam, Kirby, and 
Spence, — the chief difference being, as Reaumur ob- 
serves, that the chick has obvious organs for appro- 
priating the nutriment contained in the egg, while the 
insect in the pupa is surrounded, and, as it were, 
bathed by the fluid, whose passage into the interior 
vessels we cannot trace by the eye t- That they do 
find their way thither, the experiments above recorded 
unanswerably demonstrate. 

The pupae of insects, though they, in most in- 
stances, cease from locomotion, and appear torpid, 
are by no means really so ; for it would be no less 
incorrect to look upon them in such a light, than to 
consider an ox torpid when reclining in a meadow to 
ruminate and digest the grass he had just been de- 


• Reaumur, vol. i. p.S^S, “ Une goutte beaucoup plus grosse j” 
and Kirby and Spence, Intro, iil. 262, 
t Mem, yol, i, p, 362; &c. 






vouling. This is, in fact, the nearest analogy which 
occurs to us among the other classes of animals ; 
for the pupa, though it does not chew the cud like 
the ox, assuredly rests for the purpose of digesting or 
(if the term be preferred) of assimilating the cruder 
fluids stored up by the caterpillar, and forming or 
perfecting therefrom the organs and members of the 
mature insect 

Some pupaB have a slight motion, particularly of 
the lower parts of the body, and a few others differ 
little from the perfect insect, continuing to move and 
feed ; but the greater number remain apparently mo- 
tionless. That they have internal though impercep- 
tible motions, however, is proved by their possessing 
similar organs of respiration with caterpillars and 
perfect insects. We have adverted, in a former page, 
to the eighteen spiracles which communicate with 
the double windpipe of caterpillars, and the same ap- 
paratus is always found in chrysalides, situated on 
the sides of the abdominal rings. This we think 
might have convinced such distinguished observers 
as Lyonnet andMuschenbrok, that the most quiescent 
pupae could not exist without breathing. 




0 , Chrysalis of Oonepteryx Rhamni. 6, pupa of Lariafascelina, 
Cf pupa of Spkifue Ligwtri. 

* J. R. 






m 

Reaumur and De Geer proved this position by 
numerous experiments. When a chrysalis, for in- 
stance, is suspended by a thread and immersed in oil 
up to the tip of the wing-cases, it does not seem to 
be much injured, and the perfect insect is disclosed 
in due time. If respiration, therefore, be essential to 
the life of the chrysalis, it appears as if it could exist 
with at least the greater number of its spiracles ob- 
structed ; but this does not happen with a chrysalis 
just formed, which always dies. By immersing the 
whole chrysalis in oil, it is certainly killed ; and even 
by immersing its head downwards as far as the first 
pair of spiracles situated near the head. This seems to 
indicate accordingly that this first pair is more essen- 
tial to the insect than all the rest ; and in other ex- 
periments it is also found to emit a much greater 
quantity of air by this first pair* It seems of much 
importance in such experiments to attend to the age 
of the pupa ; for when near the change the function 
of respiration is carried on more feebly, and at length 
nearly ceases. 

Besides the decisive experiments of immersion in 
oil, Rtfaumur placed pupee of various species in the 
exhausted receiver of an air-pump, and at every 
fresh stroke of the piston their bodies both bulged 
out and became elongated : because, as he inferred, 
the envelope is not pervious to the air contained in 
the body, and the spiracles do not allow of its escape 
with sufficient rapidity to keep pace with the ex- 
haustion of the receiver ; — contrary to what happens 
when caterpillars are subjected to the same circum- 
stances. Varying his experiments, he placed in the 
exhausted receiver a vessel containing water deprived 
of its air, and in this plunged a chrysalis, keeping 
it immersed by means of a weight attached by a 
thread. At the two or three first strokes of the pis- 
ton, bubbles of air appeared at each of the spiracles, 



idsum^ by jets, ^fld a few smaller bubbles over the 
body of the chrysalis, probably from not taking the 
precaution afterwards suggested by Bonnet, of 
moistening it before immersion* 

Upon examining the structure of the spiracles, 
M. Reaumur farther discovered that their mouths are 
furnished with ciliary valves, which are shut when 
the pupa is plunged into water, but opened again 
when it is taken out. This circumstance accounts 
for the swelling of the body under the exhausted 
receiver of the air-pump, for it may be supposed the 
animal would closely shut the valves when it felt the 
air forcibly extracted from its body. It is remarkable, 
however, that though the shutting of the valves pre- 
vents the entrance of water, it has not the power of 
excluding oil ; because, as Reaumur conjectures, 
it is not in the ordinary course of its nature exposed 
to such an accident, and therefore Providence made 
no provision for itf. It may be recollected that the 
larvae of the cheese-fly and of blow-flies are provided 
with a sort of valve with which they can cover such 
of their spiracles as become immersed in any greasy 
matter J, 



Spiracles of pupae, a, the valve open ; 6 , tbe same shut. 


In the aquatic pupa of the ringed China-mark 
moth {Hydrocampa stratiotata, Stephens) De Geer 
? Bonnet, CEuvres, voL iii., p. 39, &c. f Mem. i, 407, &c. 

I See page 205, 


found three pairs of conspicuous spiracles, occupying 
the second, third, and fourth rings, and placed on 
cylindrical tubes. It is worthy of remark, that the 
caterpillar spins a double cocoon, the outer of a thin, 
and the inner of a close texture ; and when the re- 
spiratory gills of the larva are cast otf with the old 
skin, the insect knows how to surround itself with an 
atmosphere of air in the midst of the water where it 
resides, the inner cocoon being impervious to 
moisture. How it contrives to renew this air when 
vitiated is not yet known, but that it derives it from 
the water is proved by its always dying if removed 
in^) the air *. 

We have formerly described the beautiful appara- 
tus for respiration in the larvae of the gnat family 
(CHlicicidd, Latr.) t ; but this is rivalled by the organs 
destined for the same purpose in their pupa?, which 
organs are situated in the head instead of the tail. The 
pupa, ip the same way, changes its position in the water, 
swimiping with its head upwards instead of down- 
wards as before. To enable it to maintain this position, 
the pupa is farther provided with a fin-tail^ Uke a fish, 
by which it can move itself at pleasure in the water. 
It no longer, indeed, requires to take food, but air is 
indispensable to it ; and water being so unstable, 
were the pupa incapable of swimming, it w'ould sel- 
dom escape being drowned. Its respiratory appara- 
tus consists of two tubes, situated behind the head, 
on what may be called the shoulders. They are of a 
funnel shape, and project very sensibly, though we 
should not be disposed to compare them, as Reaumur 
does, to asses’ ears. The transparency of this pupa 
renders it easy to see in it the parts of the gnat. 

An apparently more simple, though no less re- 
markable, apparatus for respiration, was observed by 
Reaumur in the pupa of a small crane-fly (Tipula^ 
* DeQeer, Mem. i. 531. f 




This consisted in a singfle tube, two or 
three times longer than the body of the pupa, and as 
fine as a hair. The point of this hair always remains 
above or at the surface of the water, for the purpose 
of carrying on respiration, till the perfect fly is ready 
to emerge from the water. 



a, Tipula, f h, telescopic-tailed pupa of the same. 

c, front view of the pupa of the common gnat (^Culex pipient), 

d, side view of the same. 

In another genus of this family the external organs 
of respiration are very elegant in form, resembling 
more the fibrillae of minute aquatic mosses (Coti- 
fervoidem) than the appendages of an animal. The 
larva of this insect is well known to anglers, under 
the name of the blood worm; though we do not find 
it mentioned by Walton, Brookes, Best, Sir H. Davy, 
or any of the other writers upon angling. It is 
usually less than half an inch long, flat, and jointed 
like the wire worm, with several small appendages at 
the tail, which appear to be breathing- tubes, of the 




nature of gills ; for the larva lives under water in 
streams and ditches, enclosed for the most part in a 
tube of earth. It is of a fine crimson colour, the 
origin of its popular name ; but it becomes more 
dark and opaque in the pupa state. 

The appendages which are thrown off by the larva 



o, Chironomus plumoms. 6, larva of the same, called the 
blood worm, c d, pupae of the same, maguified to sheiv their 
plumed spiracles. 


 


are replaced by a brush-like bunch of bristles, the 
points of which, it is probable, have the power of 
extracting air from the water ; and a similar coronet 
is produced on each side of the head, disposed in a 
five-rayed star of plumes. It is not a little remark- 
able, that a double envelope for the feet projects 
from each side of the breast, a circumstance which 
seems peculiar to this insect. In a few days it is 
transformed into a pretty gnat, with feathered an- 
tennas fChironomus pluTnosuSy Meigen). 

Such are a few examples of the beautiful con- 
trivances for carrying on the important process of 
respiration in that stage of life during which few 
insects take any food. Considering the great diffi- 
culties presented to us in the investigation of this 
subject, we may well wonder that experiments have 
elucidated and proved so many facts. We are still 
ignorant, however, of the nature of the effects pro- 
duced by respiration on the fluids of pupae. 






Transformation of Fnpm into perfect Insects. 


The period which pupae require to come to maturity 
seems to depend mainly on temperature and size, 
though there are several other causes at work appa- 
rently inscrutable to human research. Those who 
adopt, after Swammerdam, the untenable theory of 
evaporation being all that is requisite to bring an 
insect to maturity, tell us that these two circum- 
stances will account for all the phenomena ; but we shall 
immediately have to record several curious facts quite 
at variance with such a conclusion. “ It is plain,'* 
say Kirby and Spence, “ that this necessary transpi- 
ration, other circumstances being alike, must take 
place sooner in a small than in a lar^e pupa. Since 
the more speedy or more tardy evaporation of fluids 
depends upon their exposure to a greater or less 
degree of heat, we might, d priorU conclude that 
pupai exposed to a high temperature would sooner 
attain maturity, even though larger in bulk, than 
others exposed to a low one : and this is the fact. 
The pupa of a large moth, which has assumed that 
state in the early part of summer, will often disclose 
the perfect insect in twelve or fourteen days ; while 
that of an ichneumon, not one-hundredth part of its 
size, that did not enter this state till late in autumn, 
will not appear as a fly for seven or eight months. 
But this is not the whole. The very same insect, 
according as it has become a pupa at an earlier or a 
later period of the year, will at one time live but 





a few weeks, at another several months in that 
state 

But though we admit all these facts, which are 
known to every naturalist, and too well ascertained 
to be denied, we submit that the inference of evapo- 
ration being the exclusive effect, is, upon the whole, 
inadmissible. Reaumur, though he does not abso- 
lutely state his belief in such an inference, shows by 
his reasoning that he was strongly disposed to adopt 
notions closely bordering upon it. The theoretical 
doctrine, it may be perceived, takes for granted that 
evaporation is the only result of heat ; overlooking 
the no less obvious effect of expansion, besides 
the disposition it produces in chemical principles to 
combine or be decomposed. But these are only 
spme of its inanimate results, which would occur 
npon material objects independently of life ; whereas 
in living bodies, what may be called chemical changes 
are frequently very difierent from what can be effected 
out of the living body, and consequently we cannot 
trace all the effects produced by heat in the two great 
internal processes of secretion and consolidation. 
In detailing, therefore, the interesting experiments 
of Reaumur on pupee, which he subjected to different 
degrees of heat and cold, we shall not adopt his in- 
ferences respecting evaporation. The accuracy of 
the experiments themselves is unquestionable. 

Reasoning from some of the facts above stated, 
Reaumur thought it might be possible to hasten or 
retard the exclusion of insects from their pupae, in 
the ^an^e way as some flowers are forced to blow 
early, and others kept back from blowing at their due 
season ; apdhe commenced a series of experiments to 
ascertain the facts. In January, 1734, he accordingly 
placed p g^eat number of the chrysalides of moths 
and bnUe^ies of various species in one of the royal 
^ f Imr. iii. 263. ... 





hot-houses at Paris. His success was equal to his 
expectations, for the insects appeared in the middle 
of winter, some in ten or twelve days, and others in 
from three to six weeks from the time of their removal 
into a warmer atmosphere. Five or six days, indeed, 
seemed to be equal to a month of natural temperature. 
A week was even equal to a month for the chrysalides 
which naturally required the temperature of mid- 
summer to bring them to maturity; because the arti- 
ficial temperature was both high and more uniform, 
particularly during the night. The butterflies and 
moths thus forced into premature appearance, were 
equally full grown, healthy and lively, with those 
produced in the usual way ; and the females deposited 
their eggs and soon afterwards died, as they always 
do in summer in the open fields. The life of these 
insects was, therefore, shortened by some months. 

The following November, Reaumur tried a similar 
experiment, which was consequently begun two 
months earlier than the former ; and the insects were 
also evolved proportionally sooner. Those, for ex- 
ample, which ought naturally to have appeared in 
May, he obtained in December. In butteries which 
have a double brood, such experiments become still 
more interesting to the physiologist. The beautiful 
swallow-tailed butterfly (Papilio Machaoii) is one of 
those which are double brooded, the first going into 
chrysalis in July, and the butterfly appearing in 
thirteen days ; — the second, in the autumn, and the 
butterfly not appearing till the succeeding June. But 
if placed in an artificial temperature of due warmth, 
and properly regulated, the second brood will appear 
in about the same time as the first. 

Reaumur tried some experiments, still more inge- 
nious, with chrysalides, which were suggested by the 
effects produced by birds sitting upon their eggs in 
order to hatch them. He concluded, that if chry- 





saUdes were placed under a sitting bird, they woul4 
be matured in a sinular way as he had found them 
to be the green-house. The difficulty was to pre- 
vent them from being bruised and crushed by the 
bird, as they are much softer and more easily injured 
than eggs. This he obviated by enclosing them ip 
hollow glass balls about the size of a hen's egg, which 
at the same time as readily deceived the bird as a piece 
of chalk passes with the eggs set to hatch under a hen. 
The chrysalides which he first tried were those of the 
small tortoiseshell butterfly {Vanessa Urticce), eight 
of which, attached to square pieces of paper, were sus- 
pended within the glass egg as near to each other as 
possible, and placed under a hen on the 22d of June. 
The aperture of the glass egg was closed, but in such 
a manner as to leave a communication with the ex- 
ternal air. The effect of the heat manifested itself 
the first day, in the moisture exhaled from the chrysa- 
lides, all the interior of the glass being covered with 
minute drops of water, which he allowed to evaporate 
by unstopping the glass, lest the moisture might spoil 
his experiment. When it was dry, he replaced it 
under the hen, and he observed no moisture exhaled 
on the following days, the chief transpiration having 
occurred in the first twenty-four hours. In about 
four days the first butterfly that, perhaps, was ever 
hatched under a hen made its appearance. He found 
four more evolved next morning, and one on the suc- 
ceeding day, the 28th of J une. Those of the same 
brood which were contained in a nurse-box placed in 
a window, did not appear before the 5th, and some 
ppt before the 8th of J uly, which was ten or twelve 
days later. Two out of eight of the chrysalides which 
had been enclosed in the glass egg died. He made 
a similar experiment with the same success upon 
several c^salides of the peacock butterfly (Vanessa 
Jo). With the pupae also of twp-winged flies and 






other insects, he tried all the preceding etperirheiits 
with very similar results. The heat cortimuhicated to 
the glass egg was very considerable, amounting to 
31® or 32® of Re^aumtir’s thermometer % or about 100® 
Fahr. It was not surprising, therefore, that some Of 
the pupae perished : we think it more wonderful that 
any of them survived. 

Rt^aumur suggests, from these experiments, that 
those who are curious in obtaining the productions 
of summer during winter, may add to the gaiety 
of their forced flowers, by forcing a brood of butter- 
flies into life to sport amongst them ; and he records 
an instance in which a friend of his at Strasburgh in 
this way hatched, by means of a stove, all the pupae 
he could obtain. We have in several instances suc- 
ceeded in obtaining butterflies in winter, by keeping 
chrysalides under glasses on a mantel -piece in a room 
with a constant tire ; but during the winter of 1829-30, 
all which were thus kept died, probably ftom the firCs 
required by the unusual severity of the season being 
too great for them. Several, on the other hand, 
which we found on walls, and which had been ex- 
posed to all tlie rigours of the winter, were disclosed 
in due lime in a perfect state. 

Having thus ascertained that heat produced the 
effects which he had anticipated, Reaumur next tried an 
opposite series of experiments, by placing chrysalides 
in diminished temperatures. He accordingly en- 
closed in nurse-boxes a number of pupae fornied in 
August 1733, and in the following January placed 
them in a coal-cellar : their natural period of appear- 
ing in the perfect state being July 1734. During the 
hot months of this year he wetit from time to time to 
see whether these pupae indicated an approaching 
change, but they remained in their original state 
during July and August, and continued so till the SUC- 
* E^aumuf; Mem* vol. ii* p* 17* 





ceedin^ August, 1735, at the time he was writing this 
account, when he found them still living and healthy, 
but not transformed into perfect insects. We are not 
aware whether he ever published the termination of 
the experiment 

In another instance, he placed in a coal-cellar the 
pupee of the emperor moth {Saturnia pavonid)j about 
a fortnight or three weeks before the usual time of 
their evolution ; and they were in consequence retarded 
to five or six weeks later than those of the same 
brood which he had kept in his cabinet. The chry- 
salides of the large garden white butterfly (Pontia 
Braasicee)^ when placed in the cellar in January, 
appeared two months later than those in the tem- 
perature of the atmosphere. A still more decisive 
experiment was made with the chrysalides of the 
small tortoiseshell butterfly (Vanessa UriioB), which 
require fourteen days of summer heat to mature 
them, and which, when hatched under a hen, had 
appeared in four days. Some of these he placed in 
the cellar the 12th of June, and they did not appear 
till the 2d and 3d of August, — about six weeks later 
than in their natural temperature. 

Reaumur, still haunted by the notion of the ex- 
halation of moisture being the only cause of the 
development of chrysalides, tried upon them similar 
ingenious experiments to those which he had success- 
fully made upon eggs, by varnishing them in order to 
prevent the escape of moisture. His experiments 
upon varnishing eggs have led to a most useful dis- 
covery, now extensively acted upon in practice for 
the preservation of eggs all over Europe. Those 
upon chrysalides, however, were not conducted with 
the same degree of acute accuracy. To prevent the 
chrysalides from coming to maturity at the usual 
time, by preventing the exhalation of their moisture, 
he conceived it would be sufficient to varnish over 





the envelope, taking care to leave the respiratory 
spiracles unobstructed. But it is most obvious, that 
the greater part of all the evaporation which occurs 
must be through the spiracles, in the same way as a 
large proportion of the moisture of the human body 
passes off by the breath. The result, however, of 
R«5aumur’s experiments with the varnished chrysalides 
was, that they were developed several weeks later 
tlian when placed in their natural circumstances, — 
which proves, we think, that the envelope has consi- 
derable influence on the transformatory process going 
on in the interior, even were we to leave the trans- 
piration of moisture out of the question 

We may remark, that the results of these experi- 
ments afford interesting illustrations of the torpidity 
of both the larger animals and of plants. In the 
United States of America, for example, many species 
of animals which become torpid in Pennsylvania, and 
other more northern parts of the country, remain 
lively in the Carolinas, and other southern parts of 
the continent t. Mr. Gough found that the dormouse 
may be prevented from becoming torpid by supplying 
it plentifully with food; and Dr. Reeve, of Norwich, 
observed the same circumstance in a hedge-hog, 
which being kept warm and well fed, showed no dis- 
position to become torpid even during severe wea- 
ther J. Pallas had a tame marmot, also, which having 
become very fat during the summer, showed no dis- 
position to torpidity, though exposed to a tempera- 
ture which threw the whole species into a torpid 
state in that part of Siberia, In the vegetable king- 
dom, again, it is a very common phenomenon to see 
plants revive after exposure to severe frosts. Mr. 

* Reaumur, Mem. vol. ii. p. 56. 
f Barton, in Amer. Phil. Trans, vol. iv. 

J Reeve on Torpidity, p, 73. 



Gough made some ingenious experiments in proof of 
this upon several plants, such as the small duck^s 
meat (Lemna minor) y and the viviparous fescue 
grass (Festuca vwipara)y which led to the conclusion 
that they could accommodate themselves without 
perishing to the vicissitudes of variable situations*. 

We observed a no less marked instance than those 
recorded by Mr. Gough, in a plant of the geranium, 
named Prince Leopold (Pelargonium macranthon. 
Sweet), the whole of whose leaves were so hard 
frozen as to break rather than bend. We immersed 
the whole of the plant in cold water, a few degrees 
above freezing, till it was thawed, and it recovered 
so completely, that not a single frosted spot appeared 
on any of the leaves t. 

Several extraordinary facts relating to insects 
prove that temperature alone will not account for the 
variations of the periods of their disclosure. It is 
stated by Marsham, that Mr. Jones of Chelsea, in one 
of his excursions, caught a female of the spotted 
muslin moth (Diaphora mendicuy Stephens), which 
laid a number of eggs, and he fed thirty-six of the 
caterpillars hatched from these, till they spun their 
tocoons and became pupae. At the usual season 
only a third of these produced moths, and he con- 
cluded the rest were dead : but, to ^^is utter astonish- 
ment, twelve more made their appearance the second 
season ; and the remaining twelve were evolved the 
third season, as jierfect and healthy as those which 
had been first produced J. 

The same extraordinary fact has been obsehred in 
the pupae of the small egger-moth {Eriogaster la- 
ne8tris)y the greater number of those which spin up 
in summer appearing in the succeeding February ; 

* Manchester Trans. f J, R. 

J Linn. Trans, vol. x, p , 402. 





but others of them requiring two, three, and even 
four years* * * § . Meinecken kept several pupse of the 
emperor-moth (Saturnia pavonia) through the winter 
in a room heated daily by a stove, and others in a cpld 
chamber. Some of both these appeared in March, 
and others, though evidently healthy, had not ap- 
peared in J uly t. 

It is certain, however, that this is not the natural 
order of things, even in this species ; for we have 
reared several broods of the species respecting which 
the preceding facts are recorded, without having 
observed them. In a large brood of the small egger 
(Eriogaster lanestris) five or six of the cocoons did 
not produce insects, and we consequently anticipated 
their appearance next year, but we have now kept 
them five years without any change, and therefore 
conclude they are deadj. The inference deduced, 
however, from the facts observed, is very plausible, 
namely, that it is intended by Providence to preserve 
the species : for were all the individuals of a brood to 
appear in the same season, it might happen to be so 
ungenial, particularly in the early months of spring, 
as to destroy them before they could deposit their 
eggs ; whereas, by their appearing in different seasons, 
some of them have the chance of coming forth in 
mild weather §. Yet, perhaps, this may be an unne- 
cessary though ingenious refining upon a final cause : 
for even in the most ungenial spring weather, there 
always occur some fine days, and, further, a brood of 
insects does not all appear on one day, but more usually 
on many successive days, as may be seen by the experi- 
meqts of Reaumur recorded at the beginning of this 

* Scriba, Journ. i., vol. iii. p. 222 ; and Haworth, Lepidopt. 

Brit., vol. i. p. 125. 

f Naturf., vol. viii. p. 143. J J. R. 

§ Kirby and Spence, vol. iii. p. 267. 

2 £ 2 






chapter. In the instance of the clear underwing (JEge- 
ria asiliformis, Stephens), we discovered a brood of 
above a dozen of the pupae in the trunk of a black pop- 
lar; but though, from feeding on the wood of the tree, 
the caterpillars must have been well protected from the 
vicissitudes of the seasons, there was nearly a month 
between the appearance of the first and the last*. 
This, indeed, is so very common an occurrence that 
it is almost superfluous to mention particular in- 
stances. 

The moths just mentioned, we may remark, were 
only observed to appear about noon ; and many 
other insects are known to emerge from the pupa 
only at one particular time of the day, similar to the 
flowers, such as the goat’s-beard {Tragopogon), and 
the night-flowering cereus {Cactus grandijiorus)^ 
which only blow at particular hours. Some insects 
are produced at sunrise, others at noon, and others 
again only at night. Several species are extremely 
regular in their appearance, such as the orange-tip 
butterfly {Poniia Cardamines)^ which is usually seen 
about the end of April, varying but few days in the 
course of many years. The various species, also, of 
May-flies {Ephemerae) are confined in their appear- 
ance to two or three days ; and those observed by 
Reaumur appear at no other time than between 
eight or ten in the evening. Those which we no- 
ticed on the Rhine in August, 1829, began to 
appear at sunset, and before morning were all dead. 
In the great square at Wiesbaden, their bodies were 
so thickly strewn about that it seemed as if a shower 
of snow had fallen during the night, their wings 
being white, and about the size of a broad snow- 
flake t» • 

The pupae of these May-flies, when about to un- 
? J. R. t J. R. 





dergo their transformation, emerge from their suba- 
queous galleries and come to the surface of the 
water. As they must keep their wings dry, the pro- 
cess would appear to be one of considerable aiffi- 
culty ; yet an observer may remark that they perform 
it with the utmost ease. In the instance of the gnat, 
this process of emerging from the water is still more 
conspicuous on account of the difference of form in 
the pupa and the fly. 

About eight or ten days after the larva of a gnat is 
transformed into a pupa, it prepares, generally to- 
wards noon, for emerging into the air, raising itself 
up to the surface so as to elevate its shoulders just 
above the level of the water. It has scarcely got into 
this position for an instant, when, by swelling the 
part of its body above water, the skin cracks between 
the two breathing tubes, and immediately the head of 
the gnat makes its appearance through the rent. 
The shoulders instantly follow, enlarging the breach 
so as to render the extrication of the body compara- 
tively easy. The most important and indeed indis- 
pensable part of the mechanism, is the maintaining 
of its upright position so as not to get wetted, which 
would spoil its wings and prevent it from flying. Its 
chief support is the rugosity of the envelope which it 
is throwing off, and which now serves it as a life-boat 
till it gets its wings set at liberty and trimmed for 
flight. The body of the insect serves this little boat 
for a mast, which is raised in a manner similar to 
moveable masts in lighters constructed for pass- 
ing under a bridge, with this difference, that the 
gnat raises its body in an upright direction from the 
first. “ When the naturalist,” says Reaumur, “ ob- 
serves how deep the prow of the tiny boat dips into 
the water, he becomes anxious for the fate of the 
little mariner, particularly if a breeze ripples the 

2 F 3 






surface, for the least agitation of the air will waft it 
rapidly along, since its body performs the duty of a 
sail as well as of a mast : but as it bears a much 
greater proportion to the little bark than the largest 
sail does to a ship, it appears in great danger of 
being upset ; and once laid on its side, all is over. 
I have sometimes seen the surface of the water 
covered with the bodies of gnats which had perished 
in this way ; but for the most part all terminates 
favourably, and the danger is instantly over*.*’ 
When the gnat has extricated itself all but the tail, 
it first stretches out its two fore-legs t, and then the 
middle pair, bending them down to feel for the 
water, upon which it is able to walk as upon dry 
land, the only aquatic faculty which it retains after 
having winged its way above the element where it 



^ The gnat {Culex pipiens) escaping from the pupa. 

? Mem., vol. iv. p. 613. 

t Kirby and Spence, by mistake, say it ‘‘draws’’ these out of 
their case,'* vol. iii, p. 288. 





spent the first stages of its existence. “ It leaves,* 
says Swammerdam, “ its cast skin on the water 
where it insensibly decays*.” Reaumur doubts 
whether Swammerdam ever actually saw this inte- 
resting transformation. We have seen it twice only. 

The beautiful pupa formed from the blood worm, 
as before described, proceeds in its transformation 
much in the same way as the common gnat. But 
how, it may be asked, can the insect raise its 
shoulders above the surface of the water, than which 
it is specifically heavier, and suspend itself there 
without motion? “ By a most singular and beau- 
tiful contrivance, which,” says Kirby, “ I shall ex- 
plain, the more particularly because it has escaped 
Rt^aumur, and, as far as I know, all other entomo- 
logical observers. The middle of the back of the 
thorax has the property of repelling water, appa- 
rently from being covered with some oily secretion. 
Hence, as soon as the pupa has once forced this 
part of its body above the surface, the water is seen 
to retreat from it on all sides, leaving an oval space 
in the disk, which is quite dry. Now though the 
specific gravity of the pupa is greater than that ot 
water, it is but so very slightly greater, that the mere 
attraction of the air to the dry part of the thorax, 
when once exposed to it, is sufficient to retain it at 
the surface ; just as a small dry needle swims under 
similar circumstances. That this is a true solution 
of the phenomenon, I am convinced by the result of 
several experiments. If, when the pupa is sus- 
pended at the surface, a drop of water be let fall 
upon the dry portion of the thorax, it instantly sinks 
to the bottom t, the thorax, which belongs to the 
heaviest half, being the lowest ; and if the pupa be 

* Part i. p. 156. 

f But, if so, we may ask what has become of the power of the 
thorax to repel water ? J. R. 


 

a^in brought to the sutface, so that the fluid is 
r^elled from its disk, it remains there, without 
enort, as before. Just before the exclusion of the 
fly {Chironomus plumosusy Meigen), the dry part 
of the thorax is seen to split in the middle. The 
air enters, and forms a brilliant stratum, resembling 
quicksilver, between the body of the insect and its 
puparium ; and the former pushing forth its head 
and fore- legs, like the gnat, rests the latter upon the 
water, and in a few seconds extricates itself wholly 
from its envelope*.’’ 

The grubs of several of the four-winged water 
flies (PhryganidtE, Stephens), popularly called 
case worms and caddis worms, construct a remark- 
able apparatus for protecting the pupa during its 
state of inactivity and helplessness. So long as it 
remains in the grub state it can withdraw itself within 
its case of shells, stones, or reed-stems ; but as soon as 
it feels its change approaching, it contrives additional 
security. It weaves, for this purpose, at the entrance 
of its gallery, a grating of its singular sill^, which 
hardens in water and remains indissoluble, as was 
first observed by Vallisnieri. The strong threads 
are made to cross each other, forming a small 
thiekish circular plate of brown silk, which becomes 
as hard as gum, fitting exactly into the opening, 
and placed a little within the margin. One of these 
gratings (described by De Geer) is pierced all over 
with holes, disposed in concentric circles, separated 
by ridges running from the centre to the circum- 
ference, though not quite so regularly as the spokes 
of a wheel. Other ridges, again, are made to tra- 
verse the concentric rays, following the course of the 
circles of holes, in such a manner as to form com- 
partments, each having a hole in its centre f. Reau- 
mur found that these holes were for the purpose of 
? Intr., iii. p. 290. f 1^® Geer, Mem,, vol. ii. p. 519 — 45. 






breathing, by admitting a current of fresh water, 
effected, no doubt, by the spiracles of the pupa ; and 
he actually saw the grate-work in alternate motion 
from convex to concave, as the water passed out 
and in. 

Our motive, however, for introducing a notice of 
these structures is for the purpose of explaining the 
contrivance by which the pupa makes its exit through 
the grating. To effect this, it is provided with a pair 
of curved mandibles, which appear to be applied 
to no other use, for they are thrown off upon its 
transformation into a fly, as was observed by Vallis- 
nieri. These facts may be verified by searching for 
caddis worms during the early spring months, as 
most of them are transformed in the first part of the 
summer. 



a. Pupa of a case-fly (Phryganea). v d, grate-works of the 
same at the openings of the cases, greatly magnifled. b, the 
perfect insect. 


In the common blow-fly (Musca carnaria)^ and 
many of the same family, the exit of the perfect 
insect from the pupa case is effected by a very dif- 
ferent, but no less admirable contrivance. The head 
of the perfect fly, it may be remarked, is hard and 
unyielding ; but in the pupa it is soft, and capable 



 

of great distension. When the insect, therefore, 
becomes desirous of escaping from its prison, it 
blows out the extensile part of its head like a bladder, 
alternately pushing it forward in the form of a muzzle, 
and swelling it out at the sides in the form of a ball, 
till it succeeds in rupturing the pupa case. As this 
envelope is too opaque to see the process distinctly 
on the outside, it is necessary to open the pupa just 
before its transformation, when the movements be- 
come obvious. The same mechanism occurs in the 
pupae of some of the fibrous gall flies (Tephritea) , 
for the purpose of dissevering the woody fibres 
which imprison the insects. In the instance of the 
thistle gall fly (Tephritis Cardui)^ Reaumur found 
that those kept in his study often became too rigid 
for the insects to force their passage, and after 
making repeated efforts they gave up the task in 
despair and died *. In the open air this accident is 
prevented by the rain moistening the galls. We 
have more than once had occasion to make the same 
remark in the woody galls, such as the bedeguar of 
the rose, in which the flies have to gnaw for them- 
selves a passage, but which they cannot always 
efiect when the galls are kept through the winter in 
a dry roomf. 

In another genus of flies, the pupa does not 
make use of its head, but turns round and employs 
its tail to force a passage. This may be observed 
in the pupa formed from the rat-tailed maggot of 
the common-sewer fly {Erisialis tenax, Fabricius), 
which was observed by Reaumur to push off the lid 
of its pupa case by means of its tail. 

The caterpillar of the clear- wing hawk moth 
{Mgeria asiliformis, Stephens), before going into 
pupa, gnaws away the wood of the poplar tree, 
where it is lodged, till it leaves only a plate of it as 
* Reaumur, iv., Mem. 8. t 






thin as writing-paper. The head of this pupa being 
obtuse, it cannot of course cut through this wooden 
covering, thin as it is, but can only push against it 
till it burst it open, which we have more than once 
seen it actually do*. It is enabled to exert consi- 
derable force in this process, by means of the beauti- 
fully serrated structure of its rings, resembling in this 
tespect the caterpillars of cossms and other wood- 
borers. 



Pupae of Cossus, a, and JEgeria^ Bhewing the serratiiTes of 
their rings. 

Lyonnet justly remarks that in the cosms there 
are sharp points upon the head for the purpose of 
making the first breach, the rest of the body acting 
as a wedge to tear open the cocoon. Professor Peck 
has given a very interesting account of similar pro- 
ceedings in the case of the locust moth (Cossus Ro~ 
binicB, Peck). “ In the silk moth,” he says, “ and 
all others which I have had an opportunity to ob- 
serve, the chrysalis bursts in the cocoon, and the fluid 
which surrounded the new insect in it escaping at the 
same time, so weakens or dissolves the fibre and 
texture of the silkt, that the moth is able to extri- 
cate itself, leaving the chrysalis behind it ; but this is 
liot the manner in the locust moth. After remaining 
till all its parts are fully grown, and it is ready to 
quit its prison, a certain quantity of exercise is ne- 
cessary to break the ligaments which attach the moth 
? J. R. 

f See some observations on this doctrine; Insect Architec- 
ture,” pages 316,317, and 195, 






to the shell of the chrysalis, and to loosen the folds 
of the abdomen. In taking this exercise, it can 
only move the abdomen in various directions; as 
one side of the rings is moved forward, the hooks in 
the serrated lines take hold of the silk and prevent 
their sliding back ; the next flexure brings forward 
the opposite side of the rings, which are prevented 
by the points on that side from slipping back in the 
same manner, and the chrysalis is forced out of the 
slightly-woven extremity of the cocoon, and through 
the silk-lined cavity, till it is protruded for about one- 
third of its length out of the opening in the bark and 
into the air*.” i 

A no less ingenious contrivance for escape was 
observed by Bonnet in one of the leaf-rollers, which 
feeds on the leaves of young ash trees. It rolls up the 
leaf into a cone, and is transformed into a small pupa, 
resembling a grain of oats. The chamber which it 
forms is not only extensive in proportion to the size 
of the insect, but is so very compact, that it does not 
appear in what manner it is to effect its escape. 
Within the capacious chamber of the leaf it hangs 
itself up by two lines, after the manner of a sailor's 
hammock. But, previous to this, it gnaws a cir- 
cular piece half through the leaf, taking care not to 
injure the exterior membrane. In order to render 
this little door easy to be found, the caterpillar, as if 
foreseeing that the blind pupa could not otherwise 
discover it, fixes one of the suspensory threads near 
its margin, guided by which the insect makes its 
exit with the utmost ease, for the head is uniformly 
swung up by the door thread f. 

A very similar proceeding is recorded of the mi- 
nute granary moth (Tinea granella)^ which we 
have before mentioned as destructive to grain. The 

* Peck, quoted by Kirby and Spence. 

+ Bonnet, (Euvres, vol, ii., p. 207. 





eggs being laid on the outside of the grain, the 
entrance of the caterpillar into the interior is not 
larger than a pin’s point, and of course entirely use- 
less as a passage for the moth ; but, before its trans- 
formation into the pupa, it shapes out a door in the 
skin of the grain, so that it may be easily broken open 
from within, while it appears entire on the outside. 
By pushing it accordingly it at once gives way. 

A prospective contrivance of the same kind occurs 
in the economy of a caterpillar which lives on the 
dry pith in the seed heads of the wild teazle fDipsa- 
CU8 sylvestrisj. The hole by which the newly hatched 
caterpillar enters is so minute, that in some hun- 
dreds of teazle heads, containing full-grown ones, 
we have never been able to detect it ; but its subse- 
quent proceedings are easily traced. From the first 
it is not contented with the protection afforded by 
the walls of the seed head, but always spins a gallery 
of thick silk to cover it while feeding, the outside of 
which is generally covered with its ejectamenta. Up 
to the period of its approaching change, the walls of 
the seed head are left quite entire, as it only eats the 
dry pith contained in their cavity ; but through these 
it would be impossible for the moth to make its way, 
inasmuch as it is unprovided with mandibles for 
gnawing. The provident caterpillar, therefore, takes 
care before its change to cut a circular hole into the 
teazle at the end of its own silken gallery, through 
which the nascent moth may find an easy passage. 
Bonnet gives it farther credit for a piece of ingenuity 
which we have not been able to verify. After cutting 
the hole, he tells us, it carefully fortifies it on the out- 
side by amassing the fibres and seeds of the plant in 
a loose manner over the hole, to prevent the intrusion 
of rapacious insects from without ; and he gives a 
very minute detail of his discovery of this fortifica- 





tion** But we have only to examine the arrange- 
ment of the teazle seeds to perceive that he must 
have been mistaken. In a dozen specimens now 
before us we find that, besides gnawing through the 
wall, the insect has eaten about an eighth of an inch 
into the seeds themselves and the chaff which sur- 
rounds them, leaving on the outside the extremities 
untouched, but lining the whole with a slight tissue 
of silk, — the circumstance, no doubt, which misled 
Bonnet. As these are extremely common in the 
vicinity of London, almost two-thirds of the seed 
heads of teazle containing a caterpillar, the pro* 
ceedings of the insect may be easily examined t* 

A similar prospective contrivance occurs in the 
instance of a caterpillar which feeds on the cow 
parsnip (Heraclevm ftpondylivm)^ and makes a cir- 
cular hole in the stem for the exit of the moth. 

In all the preceding instances, the pupa is left to 
effect its extrication by its own unassisted efforts. 
But amidst the variety which claims our admiration 
in the economy of insects, we have to notice pro- 
ceedings no less remarkable in the case of those 
pupae which require extraneous assistance in their 
transformations. An instance of this is mentioned 
by Kirby and Spence, on the authority of the Hon. 
Captain Percy, K.N., who, while he was watching 
some female crane flies (Tipvlte oleract^ee ?) busily 
employed in depositing their eggs amongst the roots 
of grass, saw one quitting her pupa case. She had 
already, by her own efforts, got her head, shoulders, 
and fore-legs disengaged, when two male flies arrived 
to assist in her extrication. They immediately laid 
hold of her pupa case with their anal forceps and hind- 
legs, while with their fore-legs and mouths they 
seemed to push her upwards, moving her backwards 
* Bonnet, (Earres, vol. ii., obs. xix. f J.ft. 






and forwards, and shifting their hold till she was 
entirely extricated, when they left her to recover her 
strength by herself. “ Probably,'* say our authors, 
“ the extreme length of the two pair of hind-legs of 
these animals may render such assistance necessary 
for their extrication*.** We, however, imagitie 
that Captain Percy’s instance was accidental and 
anomalous ; for the insect having already extricated 
her head, shoulders, and fore-legs, all the difficulties 
were surmounted. From the insect being so very 
common, also, the circumstance of such assistance, 
if it did happen, must be matter of frequent ob- 
servation ; but we have witnessed a considerable 
number of several species of this family undergo the 
change without any assistance whatever f. 

The best ascertaitied case of assistance occurs 
among ants, and was first observed by the accurate 
Swedish naturalist De Geer, though the best ac- 
count of it is given by the younger Huber. “ The 
greater part of the pupse,” says he, “ are enclosed in 
a tissue spu i by themselves before their change; 
but they cannot, like other insects, liberate themselves 
from this covering by effecting an opening in it with 
their teeth. They have scarcely the power of mov- 
ing ; their covering is of too compact a texture, and 
formed of too strong a silk, to allow of their tearing 
it without the assistance of the workers. But how do 
these indefatigable attendants ascertain the proper 
moment for this process? If they possessed the fa- 
culty of hearing, we might imagine they knew the tit 
time, from some noise produced in the interior of the 
prison by the insects whose developement has com- 
menced ; but there is no indication favouring this 
opinion ; it is probable they have a knowledge of it 
from some sight movements that take place within, 
which they ascertain through the medium of their 
* Intr. iii. 286. f J. R. 

 

antennee ; for these organs are endowed with a sensi- 
bility, of which it would be difficult to form a just 
idea : whatever it be, they are never deceived. 

“ Let us still follow them in that labour in which 
are displayed a zeal and attachment that would justly 
merit our attention, even were they the real parents 
of these pupae ; how much greater then must be our 
astonishment, when we consider that they bear no 
further relation to them than that of being born under 
the same roof. Several males and females lay in 
their envelopes in one of the largest cavities of my 
glazed ant-hill. The labourer-ants assembled toge- 
ther and appeared to be in continual motion around 
them. I noticed three or four mounted upon one of 
these cocoons, endeavouring to open it with their 
teeth at that extremity answering to the head of the 
pupa. They began to thin it by tearing away some 
threads of silk where they wished to pierce it, and at 
length, by dint of pinching and biting this tissue, so 
extremely difficult to break, they formed in it a vast 
number of apertures. They afterwards attempted to 
enlarge these openings, by tearing or drawing away 
the silk ; but these efforts proving ineffectual, they 
passed one of their mandibles into the cocoon through 
the apertures they had formed, and by cutting each 
thread, one after the other with great patience, at 
length effected a passage, of a line in diameter, in the 
superior part of the web. They now uncovered the 
head and feet of the prisoner, to which they were de- 
sirous of giving liberty, but, before they could effect 
its release, it was absolutely necessary to enlarge the 
opening. For this purpose these guardians cut out 
a portion in the longitudinal direction of the^cocoon,* 
with their teeth alone, employing these instruments 
as we are in the habit of employing a pair of scissors. 
A considerable degree of agitation prevailed in this 
part of the ant-hill A number of labourer-ants were 






occupied in diaen^ging the winged individual from 
its envelope; they took repose and relieved each 
other by turns, evincing great eagerness in seconding 
their companions in the task. To expedite the work, 
some raised up a little slip cut out in the length of 
the cocoon, whilst others drew the insect gently from 
its imprisonment. When the ant was extricated from 
its enveloping membrane, it was not, like other in- 
sects, capable of enjoying its freedom and taking 
flight; it could neither fly, nor walk, nor, without 
difficulty, stand ; for the body was still confined by 
another membrane, from which it could not by its 
own exertions disengage itself. 

“In this fresh embarrassment, the labnurer-ants 
did not forsake it: they removed the satin-like- pel- 
licle which embraced every part of the body, drew 
the antennae gently from their investment, then dis- 
engaged the feet and the wings, and lastly the body, 
with the abdomen and its peduncle. The insect was 
now in a condition to walk and receive nourishment, 
for which it appeared there was urgent need. The 
first attention, therefore, paid it by the guardians was 
that of giving it the food I had placed within their 
reach. 

“ The ants in every part of the ant-hill were occu- 
pied in giving liberty to the males, females, and 
young iabourer-ants, which were still enveloped. Ou 
being disencumbered of their coverings, the rem- 
nants were collected and placed aside in one of the 
most distant lodges of their habitation ; for these in- 
sects observe the greatest order and regularity. 
Some species of ants remove these shreds to a dis^ 
tauce from the ant-hill, others cover the exterior sur- 
face of their nest with them, or collect them in parti- 
cular apartments*.** 

A very interesting experiment upon this subject 
was tried by f)r. J. R. Johnson, of Bristol. “Among 
' ? Huber on Ants, p. 88. 



those ants I kept in confinement,^* says he, I ob- 
served that considerable bustle prevailed when any of 
the pupse were about to quit the cocoon. For the 
most part two or ‘three stationed themselves on 
or near each cocoon. From seeing, more than 
once, two engaged in the operation, I placed 
in a wine-glass, with a little moistened earth, 
one of the yellow ants (Formica flavd)^ with 
three or four pupae ; the first object with this little 
creature was that of excavating a chamber for the 
deposition of its treasure. The pupae were then 
brought up, and laid on the surface of the earth from 
day to day, to receive the sun’s warmth. In a few 
days I saw the scattered remnants of one of the 
cocoons, and the worker, with his assistant, engaged 
in giving liberty to the remaining ants. I did not, 
at the time, notice whether the pupae were or were 
not capable of effecting their own liberation ; but ac- 
cording to the statement of De Geer, the pupa dies 
when neglected by the workers*.” 

The latter circumstance is contradicted by the 
testimony of Swammerdam, one of the highest 
authorities which could be adduced. The species he 
describes as flesh-coloured, and he was not a little 
surprised that they spun a cocoon like the silk- worm. 
“ This web,” he says, “ was of an oval figure, and 
wrought with delicate and fine threads about the 
body, being of a rusty iron colour, and when I opened 
it I found a pupa in the interior. I likewise carried 
some of these enclosed pupee to Amsterdam, which 
after some days gnawed their way out of their webs, 
and produced some male ants ; this happened on the 
eighteenth of Julyf.*' It is obvious, therefore, that 
at least some species can extritate themselves with- 
out assistance ; though this seems to be the regular 
process. 

? Notes to Huber, p. 87. 
t Swammerdam, Biblia Nat, vol i. p. 130. 



 


We might have been led by analogy to suppose 
that bees would adopt a similar method of extricating 
their young ; but observation shows that they do 
not, for they break through their cocoon by means of 
their mandibles, at the same time forcing their way 
through the wax that is fastened down above to the 
web and bursting it into several jagged pieces, which 
they throw off on all sides. The other bees carry 
these broken pieces away, and clear the cells so tho- 
roughly as to make them quite smooth and even. 
The male, as well as the queen bees, force their way 
also out of their cells in the same manner as the 
common or working kind, and all undergo the same 
change*. But there is one very remarkable difference 
peculiar to the royal cocoons, first observed by the 
elder Huber, which well merits to be mentioned. 

A hive of bees is so essentially monarchical, that 
when more queens than one are produced they ex- 
hibit mutual and deadly animosity, which leads them 
to destroy one another. When there are several 
royal pupae, therefore, in a hive, the first transformed 
attacks the rest and stings them to death ; though, if 
these pupae were enveloped in complete cocoons, this 
murder could not be perpetrated ; — for the silk is of 
so close a texture, that the sting could not penetrate 
it; and if it did, the barbs would stick fast in the 
meshes, and the royal assailant, unable to retract her 
weapon, would become the victim of her own fury. 
In order, therefore, that she may destroy her rivals, 
it is necessary for the hinder rings to remain unco- 
vered, and on this account it is inferred the royal 
grubs spin only imperfect cocoons, open behind, and 
enveloping only the head, shoulders, and first ring of 
the abdomen. » 

H uber was exceedingly anxious to discover whe- 
ther the royal grubs spun their cocoons imperfect in 
consequence of a particular instinct, or of the greater 
* Swammerdam; vol. i. p. 187. 




width of the cells preventing them from stretching 
the thread up to the top. To ascertain this he dis- 
lodged several royal grubs about to spin their 
cocoons, and introduced them into glass cells blown 
of varying dimensions. “ They soon prepared to 
work/* he says, “ and commenced by stretching the 
fore part of the body in a straight line, while the 
other was bent in a curve, — thus forming an arc of 
which the sides of the cells afforded two points of 
support. It next directed the head to such parts of 
the cell as it could reach, and carpeted the surface 
with a thick bed of silk. I remarked that the threads 
were not carried from one side to another, which 
would have been impracticable, for the larvae, being 
obliged to support themselves, had to keep the pos- 
terior rings curved ; and the free and moveable part 
6f the body was not long enough to admit of the 
mouth reaching the opposite sides. The first expe- 
riments obviated the probability of any particular in- 
stinct in the royal larvae, and proved that they spin 
incomplete cocoons, because they are forced to do so 
by the figure of their cells. But desirous of evidence 
still more direct, I put them into cylindrical glass 
cells, where I had the satisfaction of seeing tliem 
spin complete cocoons in the same manner as the 
larvae of workers. In fine, I put plebeian larvae into 
very wide cells, and they left the cocoon open, as is 
done by the royal larvae. I also found that royal 
larvae, when lodged in artificial cells, where they can 
spin complete cocoons, undergo all their transfoi ma- 
tions equally well. Thus the necessity which nature 
imposes on them of leaving the cocoon open, is not 
on account of their increment ; nor does it appear to 
have any other object than that bf exposing them to 
the certainty of perishing by the wounds of their 
natural enemy ; — ^an observation truly new and sin^ 
giilar 


? Hub«r on Bees, p. 133. 




Expansion of the Body and Wings in Insects newly transformed. 

The mechanism by which winged insects, as well as 
birds, are enabled to support themselves in the air, is 
one of the most admirable instances of providential 
wisdom, to facilitate the locomotion and the distribu- 
tion of the smaller animals. The great agent em- 
ployed for this purpose is air, which is made to 
serve the double purpose of assisting in the assimi- 
lation of nutriment by the supply of oxygen and the 
removal of carbon, and of diminishing the weight of 
the body in order to render it buoyant. In birds, 
the lungs have several openings communicating with 
corresponding air-bags or cells which fill the whole 
cavity of the body from the neck downwards, and 
into which the air passes and repasses in the pro- 
cess of breathing. This is not all : the very bones of 
birds are hollowed out with the design of receiving 
air from the lungs, from which air-pipes are con- 
veyed to the most solid parts of the body, and even 
into the quills and plumelets of the feathers, which are 
hollow or spongy for its reception. As all these 
hollow parts, as well as the cells, are only open on 
the side communicating with the lungs, the bird 
requires only to tak§ in a full breath to fill and dis- 
tend its whole body with air, which, in consequence 
of the considerable heat of its body, is rendered much 
lighter than the air of the atmosphere. By forcing 
this air out of the body again, the weight becomes so 


 


much increased that birds of large size can dart down 
from great heights iu the air with astonishing velocity. 

In insects a similar mechanism occurs, though it 
is more difficult to trace it, on account of the great 
minuteness of the several organs ; but so far as ihe 
circumstances can be observed, they well merit our 
attention. The most remarkable nf these is the 
expansion of ihe body and wings on the perfect 
insect emerging from the pupa case. A very 
striking exemplification of this occurs in the trans- 
formation of the ant-lion (Myrmeieon formicarium), 
whose singular stratagems in the grub state are so 
familiar to the readers of books on natural history*. 
When it is about to change into a pupa it constructs 
a cocoon of sand, which it lines with a beautiful 
tapestry of silk, the whole being less than half an 
inch in diameter, the pupa itself, when rolled up, 
filling only a space of about half this dimension. 
When it has remained in the cocoon about three 
weeks, it breaks through the envelope and emerges to 
the outside, as the chrysalides of wood-borers make 
their way to the exterior of a tree to facilitate the exit 
of the perfect insect ; with this difference, that the 
nascent myrmeleon-fly makes use of its mandibles to 
gnaw the cocoon. When it has arrived on the out- 
side it only requires to expand its wings and body to 
complete its transformation. But this is the process 
most calculated to excite our admiration ; for though 
it is not on its emergence more than half an inch in 
length, it almost instantaneously stretches out to an 
inch and a quarter, while its wings, which did not 
exceed the sixth of an inch, acquire an immediate 
expansion of nearly three inches 

To the real wonders attending the history of this 
remarkable insect, it has been fancifully added, that, 
as it has cast off the spoils and cumbersome weight 
* See Insect Architecture/’ page 209, &c. 






of its first form, so is it likewise divested of its bar- 
barity and ravenous malignity ; but the formidable 
structure of its mandibles, as Rtkiuinur justly re» 
marks, evidently disprove this opinion. A lady dis- 
covered that it would eat fruit, and Rt^aumur ac- 
tually saw one munch part of a pear ; but he thinks 
that this is not its natural food*. Its close resem- 
blance, indeed, to the dragon-fiies (Libellulina)^ 
except in being more slow in flight, affords a strong 
analogical indication of its carnivorous propensities. 




a, Myrmeleon formknrivm, the fly of fhft ant rion. 6, the head 
mafi'nitied to thew the caliiper formed mandibles, c. the pupa, 
d, the pupa ekcaping; from its cocoon. 


A still more striking difference of size may be 
remarked in the pupa and the perfect insect of a lace- 
winged fly {Chrysopa Perla, Leach), by no means 
uncommon near London, and well known by its 
golden eyes and green wings t. The cocoon of this 

* Mem., vd. ri. p. 375. f See page 45. 


 


insect is not bigger than a small pea, while the fly is 
nearly an inch in length, and the expanse of the 
wings about two inches. 

In some aquatic insects this transformation is the 
more conspicuous from the change of element, the 
pupa emerging into the dry atmosphere, where the fly 
is evolved. In the case of the dragon-flies just men- 
tioned, the approaching change is evinced by the 
increasing transparency of the pupa, exhibiting the 
growing brilliancy of the large lustrous eyes of the in- 
cluded insect, which may be then brought into view 
by removing the envelope. At this period it may be 
seen removing out of the water to a dry place, such 
as a grassy bank or the stems of aquatic plants, into 
which it pushes its sharp claws, and remains for a 
short time immoveable. By the swelling of the 
upper part of the body the envelope is soon distended 
and burst asunder on the back of the head and 
shoulders, and, through the opening, first the head 
and then the legs of the perfect fly make their exit, 
whilst the empty slough of the legs continues fixed 
in its place. After this first part of the process is 
accomplished, it hsOigs down its head and rests for 
a space, as if exhausted by previous exertion, or 
rather to allow the newly excluded parts to dry and 
become more firm. It next erects itself, and laying 
hold of the upper part of the slough with its feet, 
pulls the parts still enveloped further out, then 
creeping forward by degrees, it disengages the en- 
tire body, and again rests for a time immoveable. 
The wings now begin to expand themselves, and 
their plaits and folds become gradually smooth. 
The body, also, becomes insensibly larger and 
longer, and the limbs acquire their just size and pro- 
portions. While the wings are undergoing this 
operation of drying and expanding, the insect takes 
care to keep them from coming into contact with the 




A, the drajcon fly, beginning to escape from the pupa ; a, the fly ; 
6, the pnpa case. B, the process further advanced ; c, the fly ; d, 
the pupa case. C, the fly nearly free, and forming an arch ; e, the 
» /» pupa case. I), the fly bending back its body, so as not 
to oMtruct the expansion of the wings. ¦ 



body, by bending itself into the form of a crescent ; 
for if they were obstructed, whilst wet, they could 
not afterwards be set to rights. 

All these changes are perfected, according to 
Swammerdam, by the force of the circulating fluids 
and the air, impelled by respiration, a fact of which, 
we think, there cannot be any doubt It is very 
seldom, however, that we can surprise insects at the 
precise moment of their transformation, as it is for 
the most part very speedily accomplished, for the 
whole of the preceding evolutions are usually com- 
pleted in ten or fifteen minutes. “ It happened by 
mere chance,** says Swammerdam, “ that I observed 
them for the first time : one of these verm ides 
adhered to a stone-wall in the river Loire, and it was 
so softened by the water dashing up against it, that it 
could only half perfect its change, so that I took it 
partly free and partly yet fixed in the skin. I once 
afterwards saw this change in the large kind of 
dragon-fly {Mshna f) which had crept to land out 
of a small lake, and cast its skin sitting in the 
grass * ’* 



a, newly-hstcbfd blow-fly inaKnified, shewing the jmlpy, 
eniinpled state of the wings, tlie wings, dry and fully ex* 
pand^ 


* BibL Nat., vol. i. p. 98. 






Some species of flies have their win^s shortened 
very considerably in the pupa state by zia^-zag or 
transverse folds ; so that, when newly e\olved, it 
might be supposed, from their moist and crumpled 
appearance, that they could never become so fine, 
gauzy, and translucent, as they are actually seen to 
do. This will be better understood from the above 
figures than by description. 

We have taken the preceding examples of expan- 
sion of the wings from those insects in which these 
are more or less transparent, and consequently the 
branching of the tubes {nervurex) through them is 
more obvious th^n in moths and butterflies, in 
which the wings are covered with feathery scales. 
It is, however, less rare to see the latter transformed 
than the former, from the greater facility of rearing 
them, and on that account, it may be proper to take 
some notice here of their transformation. We 
cannot in this find better guides than Swammerdam 
and the celebrated Italian anatomist, Malpighi, in 
his account of the silk-worm. “At length,” says 
the latter, “ within four days, the heart {dorsal vessel) 
of the silk-worm continues moving slowly, and the 
body growing bigger ; having thrown off the out- 
ward skin like a slough, the pupa appears a new 
creature. The throwing off the old and assuming 
this new form, is completed in the space of one 
minute and ten seconds ; and it is thus done, as I 
chanced to see it. The motion of the heart {dorsal 
vessel) is very quick at first, and the whole frame of 
the body appears convulsed ; so that the several cir- 
cular folds of the segments emerge, and by the 
transverse contraction of the sides, the external 
skin is separated from the inner; hence, upon 
making an effort, and thrusting the body, which now 
appears particularly thick towards the head, the skin 




is driven backward and downward ; and the portions 
of the windpipe being separated from their external 
proper orifices, are thrown away with the skin which 
is then cast off. By this motion, a cleft or opening 
is made in the back near the head, and through the 
aperture the body makes its way, the skin being by 
degrees drawn back towards the tail. This process 
is assisted greatly by a yellow kind of ichor which 
exudes from the cavities of the skull ; and the pupa 
appears then free and disengaged. 

“ While the insect is making its passage out, the 
antennae are separated from the body of the pupa, 
and are torn, as it were, out of two cavities of the 
skull ; and their length, as they become unfolded, 
occupies the same place which the two muscles of the 
mandibles formerly occupied. The wings, also, and 
the legs appear to be circumscribed in their limits ; 
the wings being drawn from their situation near the 
fore-legs, and the legs from the lateral parts of the 
back. But as these unfolded parts are yet mucous, 
they easily stick to each other, and, insensibly grow- 
ing dry, they become so closely united that the pupa 
appears like one entire garment. Now as these parts 
are peculiar to the moths, and are destined for their 
use, the nature of the moths seems to be to emerge 
sooner from the state of the caterpillar than is com- 
monly believed, and also to be earlier implanted 
in it ; for evidently, in the silk-worm, the beginnings 
of the wings may be seen under the second and 
third ring of the body, before the texture of the 
web. The antennae are likewise delineated on the 
skull, and the web being finished, they have their 
own termination ; nor will it be improper to suppose 
that the new kind of life in the pupa is only a mask 
or veil of the moth, which is already perfect within, 
the intent of which is, that it should not be struck or 


 

destroyed by external injuries, but might grow strong 
and ripen*” 

While the little creature remains in this condition, 
there is produced, as Swammerdam tells us, a vio* 
lent agitation in its fluids, so that they are driven 
from the internal vessels through the tubes in the 
wings, which are likewise supplied with air from the 
windpipe. The insect, besides, labours violently with 
its legs, and all these motions concurring with the 
growth of the wings, it is impossible that the tender 
skill which covers it should not at length give way, 
which it does by bursting in four distinct and regular 
pieces. When the legs become disengaged they 
much assist in freeing the body and other parts that 
are yet bound up ; at the same time, the skin on the 
back flies open and uncovers the wings and shoulders. 
The insect, after this, remains for sometime in a state 
of rest, with its wings drooping down hke wet paper, 
and its legs fixed in the skin which it has just cast 
off, together with the lining of the windpipe and 
breathing spiracles. This latter circumstance enables 
the insect to take more air into its body, and thereby 
renders it the better able to fly, and perform the 
other functions dependant on a good supply of air. 
In consequence of this the wings expand so rapidly, 
that it is by no means easy to trace their unfold- 
ing ; for in the space of a few minutes, they increase 
in dimensions about five-fold. Their spots and 
colours at the same time, previously so small as to 
be scarcely discernible, become proportionally ex- 
tended, so that what but a few minutes before ap- 
peared as a number of confused and indistinct points, 
acquires many varied beauties of colour and form. 
From the wings extending themselves so suddenly, 
their soft wrinkled appearance is, in less than half 
? Malpighi, De Bombyce. 

 


an hour, no longer visible, and the insect becomes 
fitted for flight*. 

Kirby, in speaking of the swallow-tailed butterfly 
(Papilio Machaon)^ says, “ I had the pleasure of 
seeing it leave its puparium the 16 th of May. With 
great care I placed it upon my arm, where it kept 
pacing about for the space of more than an hour ; 
when all its parts appearing consolidated and deve- 
loped, and the animal perfect in beauty, I secured it, 
though not without great reluctance, for my cabinet 
—it being the only living specimen of this fine fly I 
had ever seen. To observe how gradual, and yet 
how rapid, was the developement of the parts and 
organs, and particularly of the wings, and the perfect 
coming forth of the colour and spots, as the sun gave 
vigour to it, was a most interesting spectacle. At 
first, it was unable to elevate or even move its wings; 
but in proportion as the aerial or other fluid was 
forced by the motions of its trunk into their nervures, 
their numerous corrugations and folds gradually 
yielded to the action till they had gained their greatest 
extent, and the film between all the nervures became 
tense. The ocelli, and spots and bars, which appeared 
at first as but germs or rudiments of what they were 
to be, grew with the growing wing, and shone forth 
upon its complete expansion in full magnitude and 
beauty t.” 

The probable object of the movements which an 
insect makes, upon just escaping from the chrysalis, 
is to impel the fluids that had been compressed 
during its confinement, and more particularly air, 
into the various parts of the expanding body and 
wings. The wings, it may be remarked, are not, on 
the exclusion of the insect, folded up as are the long 
wings of an earwig {Forjicula auricularia)^ but are 
• Swammerdam, ii. 7, &c. f Intr. iii. 293. 





of a thick structure and easily expanded. They differ in 
this from full-formed wings, which cannot be stretched 
a hair’s breadth without tearing them ; whereas we 
have taken the wing of a butterfly on its emerging 
from the chrysalis, and extended it to four times its 
original expansion. That the fluids of the body are 
at this period impelled into the wings, is proved by 
an experiment first tried, we believe, by Swammer- 
dam, on the wings of bees. “ The blood in the bee,” 
he says, “.is a limpid fluid, as maybe observed, if a 
little part be at this time cut off from the wings ; for 
then the fluid exudes from the cut part, appearing, by 
reason of the extreme smallness of the blood-vessels, 
under the form of little pellucid globules, which in- 
sensibly and by degrees increase into considerable 
little drops.” — “ The wings of the bee have likewise 
many pulmonary tubes, which, when the nymph is 
casting its last skin, have also, together with all the 
other parts, once more to throw off* their exuvise. 
After this, when these tubes are again distended by 
the freshly impelled air, and the air-vessels, which 
have hitherto been contracted, are inflated and dis- 
tended with the same air, it follows that the whole 
wing afterwards expands itself, and becomes thrice, 
nay, four times larger than it was before. This 
expansion of the wings depends, therefore, both upon 
the impulsion of the air and of the blood ; for at the 
same time when the air is impelled into the wings, a 
considerable quantity of blood is likewise driven into 
the vessels of the wings.” — “ The female bees do not, 
as the common bees and the male, come forth with 
their wings folded up, but expanded and displayed, 
and in a state ready for flight. On this account, the 
all-wise Author of Nature has provided for them a 
more spacious mansion, in which they may expand 
their wings conveniently and properly ; so that after 
they have burst from their cells they may be pre- 





pared forswarmingf immediately, if there be a necessity 
for it, or that the youn^ queen may be in a condi- 
tion to drive out her royal mother and take her place 
if there be occasion*.” 

It does not appear, however, that Swammerdam 
proved by dissection the simultaneous existence of 
air and blood vessels in the wings, but merely infers 
this, as Reaumur afterwards did, from the phenomena. 
Blit Jurine has since actually demonstrated that every 
vein (nervure) of a wing contains an air-tube, which 
originates in the windpipe, and follows in a serpen- 
tine form, without filling, every branchlet of the 
nervures. Those who have not paid attention to this 
curious subject have little conception of the great 
diversity of forms which are exhibited by the branch- 
ings of these nervures, not only in different orders, 
but even in different species of insects. They differ, 
indeed, as much in this respect as the leaves of plants 
do in their mode of veining. 



Wiogs of insectti a, wiog of » beetle ; 6, wing of an earwig ; 
c, wing of a saw fly; d, wing of a crane fly ; e, wing of a com- 
mon fly (^Musca) ; /, wing of a midge iPsychuda). 


* Swammerdam, i. 187. 






In moths and butterflies the nervures are in a ^reat 
measure concealed by the feathery scales but when 
these are removed they are rendered apparent, and 
appear to resemble in some measure the arrangement 
observed in the two-winged flies. To this arrange- 
ment there occurs a remarkable exception in the 
family of plumed moths (^AlucitideB, Leach), of 
which Stephens enumerates twenty-nine British 
species. One of the most common of these is the 
large white plume (Pterophorus pentadactylus^ 
Leach), which maybe seen, during the summer, in 
hedges and gardens, flitting about like a tuft of down 
or a snow-white feather dropt from the breast of the 
eider duck. From being slow in its motions it is 
easily taken; but if rudely handled all its snowy 
plumage will come off. Another of the family, also 
very common, is the twenty-plume moth {Alucita 
hexadactyla^ Leach), which may be seen from March 



a, the twenty-plume moth. 6, the same magnified, c, the white 
plume moth. 

till October, on windows and the walls of rooms, or, 
still more probably, on the leaves of honey-suckles, 




on which its caterpillar feeds. Relaumur, who had 
never found the caterpillar, thought that so delicate 
an insect could not exist out of doors during the bleak 
weather of spring; and concludes that it feeds like 
the clothes nioth.in>doors — an instance among hun- 
dreds more how frequently our most plausible reason- 
ings are far removed from the facts. This moth is so 
small that it is not ready to catch the eye of those who 
are unacquainted with it, and even when it is found 
it requires a magnifying-glass to perceive all its 
beauties. 

The movements of insects just escaped from the 
chrysalis appear, then, to be analogous in their design 
to the restless motions of the young of larger animats. 
In Darwin’s fanciful language, the accumulation of 
excitability in the sensorium impels the creature to 
be frisky for the purpose of getting rid of the super- 
abundant stimulus ; but whatever the exciting cause 
may be, we are certain that the final cause and certain 
effect is the brisker impulsion of fluids, and particu- 
larly air, through the vessels appropriated to their 
circulation, and consequently the more perfect 
nourishment and speedy growth of the several mem- 
bers. The analogy between the larger animals and 
insects is, that th« latter, when they have undergone 
their last change from the pupa into the perfect 
insect, never increase in size, as the former remain 
stationary soon after puberty. 

We notice this the more readily, as those who are 
but little acquainted with insects are exceedingly 
apt to think they grow like other animals, and from 
this cause commit many mistakes, not perhaps of 
great moment, but which in a work like this it may 
prove interesting to rectify. “ The most common 
British butterflies,” it has been remarked, “ most 
persons may have observed to be those which are 
white; and all these are usually looked upon as 





of the same species, differing in nothing, except, 
perhaps, in the size ; the latter being erroneously 
ascribed to difference of age. But the fact is, that 
there are a considerable number of species of our 
white butterflies, as well as several genera, and pro- 
bably more varieties even of these than have yet been 
ascertained or described. It is certain, indeed, that 
butterflies do not, like the larger animals, increase 
in size as they grow older; for every individual, 
from the moment it becomes a butterfly, continues 
invariably of the same size till its death. Butter- 
flies, indeed, seldom live longer than a few days, or 
at most a few weeks, and during this time they eat 
little, except a sip of honey : and since this is so, it 
would be absurd to expect that they could increase in 
size. It must not, however, be understood from this, 
that the same species will always measure or weigh 
precisely the same ; for though this will hold as a 
general rule, there are many exceptions, arising from 
the accidents the caterpillar may have suffered from 
which an individual butterfly originated. It is only 
during the caterpillar state that the insect eats vora- 
ciously, and grows in proportion ; and if it is, during 
this stage of its existence, thrown upon short allow- 
ance, it cannot acquire the standard magnitude, and 
the butterfly will be dwarfed from the first. The 
same remarks with respect to growth apply to insects 
of every kind, and the fact cannot be better exemplified 
than in the uniformity of size in the house fly {Mvsca 
domeslica) among which scarcely one individual in a 
thousand will be found to differ a hair’s breadth in 
dimensions from its fellows*.’* 

We may add, that there are many flies occasion- 
ally found in houses both larger and smaller than the 
Mvsca domestica, but these are of a different spe- 

• J. Rennie on the White Butterflies of Britain, Mag. Nat. Hist. 
Tol. ii. p. 225. 






cies, and not, as is popularly believed, the old or 
the young of the house fly; no more than the mid- 
summer ( Zanihenmia solstitial^, Leach) 

is the young of the common cockchafer (Melolontka 
vulgaris). It would be equally correct to say that 
an ass is the young of a blood-horse, or a mouse the 
young of a rat. Nor is this mistake confined merely 
to popular belief, for we find it not only stated in 
books of natural history, but reasons assigned for its 
correctness. “It is held by some apiarians,” says 
Huish, “ that the bee, in emerging from its cell, has 
attained its full growth ; I would, however, recom- 
mend to those gentlemen to try to thrust either a 
bee or a drone into one of the breeding-cells, and 
he will find that the capacity of their bodies is too 
large for the dimensions of the celP.” This experi- 
ment would not, of course, succeed ; but that does 
not prove the doctrine, for the author does not take 
into consideration the great quantity of air by which 
the body is distended ; and even if this were ex- 
pelled by putting the bee under the exhausted 
receiver of an air-pump, the wings and other parts, 
now become dry and rigid, could not be folded up 
in the very compact manner in which they existed in 
the pupa state. 

Tile fact of the expansion of the wings by the 
impulsion of air and fluids into their nervures, 
may be illustrated by the accidental circumstances 
into which chrysalides may fall. We have men- 
tioned in a preceding page, that the thread by which 
a chrysalis is suspended may sometimes snap asun- 
der. When this happens, and the chrysalis is allowed 
to remain, it will not usually produce an insect com- 
plete in all its parts ; for the side upon which it lies 
being pressed against an unyielding substance by its 
own weight, instead of hanging lightly suspended 
* Huish on Bees, p. 43. 





by R silken cord, is prevented from becoming duly 
expanded, and when the insect is excluded it is found 
to be deformed. This might by some be imagined 
to be a mere theoretical view deduced from physio- 
logical reasoning; but we can prove it by specimens 
of moths and butterflies which we have reared. A 
colony of the brown- tail moth (Portheda aurijlua)^ 
which we reared during the summer of 1829, spun in 
the corner of a nurse-box a common web of several 
chambers for containing the pupae. One of these 
chambers being accidentally torn, a pupa fell upon 
the earth in the bottom of the box, and in due time a 
female moth was produced from it ; but she never 
succeeded in expanding her wings, which remained 
till her death shrunk, rumpled, and totally useless for 
the purpose of flying, though in every other respect 
she was full grown, and deposited in the box a group 
of fertile eggs, covered with down from her tail as 
neatly as was done by her sisters of the same brood. 
In the summer of 1825, the chrysalis of a small tor- 
toiseshell butterfly (Vanessa UrticceJ lost its hold of 
its silken suspensory, and fell upon the pasteboard 
bottom of a nurse-box, resting in a sort of angular 
position, so that the case of the upper wing on the 
left side pressed upon the box with the whole weight 
of the chrysalis above it. When the butterfly made 
its appearance, it expanded its wings as usual, but 
the wing upon which it had rested was not half the 
size of the one on the right side which had lain 
uppermost. Another of the same brood had by 
some cause not grown so large in the caterpillar 
state as the rest. It was transformed, notwithstand- 
ing, into a chrysalis, which appeared healthy and 
well formed ; but when the butterfly appeared, though 
it did not ditier from the usual appearance, its wings 
never expanded a single liair’s breadth, and remained 




always in the same state as when it issued from the 
chrysalis*. 



0, Vnnetfa utiica^ with one wlnff imperfect, h, brown-tlil 
moth, Purthcsia auriflua, with vhriTelied wings, c, Fanesia vrttcce, 
with unexpanded wings. 


It is not a little remarkable, that when insects are 
evolved from the pupa state, they always discharge 
some substance. It is important to remark, that the 
matter voided at this period by many butterflies {Va- 
nessa, &c.) is of a red colour, resembling blood, while 
that of several moths is orange or whitish. It could 
not readily be supposed that this should become the 
object of superstitious terror, yet so it has been in 
more instances than one. M outlet tells us, from 
Sleidan, that in the year 1553 a prodigious multitude 
of butterflies swarmed throughout a great portion of 
Germany, and sprinkled plants, leaves, buildings, 
clothes, and men, with bloody drops as if it had rained 
blood t. Several historians, indeed, have recorded 
showers of blood among the prodigies which have 
struck nations with consternation, as the supposed 
omen of the destruction of cities and the overthrow 
of empires. About the beginning of July, 1608, one 
of these showers of blood was supposed to have fallen 
* J.R. f Mouflet, Theatr. Ins. 107* 






In the suburbs of Alx. and for many miles around 
it. and particularly the walls of a churchyard were 
spotted with the blood. This occurrence would, no 
doubt, have been chronicled in history as a super- 
natural prodigj, had not Aix possessed at this time, 
in M. Peiresc, a philosopher, who, in the eager pur- 
suit of all kinds of knowledge, had not neglected the 
study of insects. It is accordingly related, in the 
curious life of Peiresc by Gassendi, that he had, 
about the time of the rumoured shower of blood, 
happened to find a large chrysalis, the beauty of 
which made him preserve it in a box. Some time 
after, hearing a noise in the box, he opened it and 
found a fine butterfly, which had left upon the bottom 
a red stain of considerable magnitude, and apparently 
of exactly the same nature with the drops on the stones, 
popularly supposed to be blood. He remarked, at 
the same time, that there were countless numbers of 
butterflies flying about, which confirmed him in the 
belief of his having discovered the true cause ; and 
this was further corroborated by his finding none of 
the red drops in the heart of the city, where the butter- 
flies were rarely seen. He also remarked, that the 
drops were never on tiles, and seldom on the upper 
part of a stone, as they must have been had they 
fallen from the heavens, but usually appeared in 
cavities and parts protected by some angular projec- 
tion. What Peiresc had thus ascertained, he lost 
no time in disclosing to many persons of knowledge 
and curiosity, who had been puzzling themselves to 
account for the circumstance by far-fetched reason- 
ings, such as a supposed vapour which had carried 
up a supposed red earth into the air that had tinged 
the rain ; — no less wide of the truth than the popular 
superstition which ascribed it to magic, or to the 
devil himself^. Those who are curious to verify the 
* R^aumur^ voi. i. p. 638. 




discovery, as we may well call it, of Peiresc, may 
easily do so by rearing any of the spinous caterpillars 
which feed on the nettle till they are transformed into 
the butterfly. We have witnessed the circumstance 
in innumerable instances. 

It is a curious and interesting probability, that the 
crimson snow of the Alpine and Arctic regions, which 
has recently excited so much scientific inquiry, should 
be referable to a somewhat similar cause, — a circum- 
stance which will apologize for our taking some notice 
of it here by way of illustration. According to 
Professor Agardh, red snow is very common in all 
the alpine districts of Europe, and is probably of the 
same nature w^ith that brought from the polar regions 
by Captain Ross. Saussure saw it in abundance on 
Mont Brevern, in Switzerland, and elsewhere ; 
Ramond found it on the Pyrenees ; and Sommerfeldt 
in Norway. In March, 1808, the whole country 
about Cadone, Belluno, and Feltri, is reported to 
have been covered in a single night with rose-coloured 
snow ; and at the same time a similar shower was 
witnessed on the mountains of Valtelin, Brescia, 
Carinthia, and Tyrol. But the most remarkable red 
snow shower was that which fell on the night between 
the 14th and Ibth of March, 1823, in Calabria^ 
in Abruzzo, in Tuscany, at Bologna, and through the 
whole chain of the Apennines. 

Upon the return of Captain Ross from the Polar 
expedition some years ago, the specimens of red 
snow which he brought home were examined by 
three of our most distinguished observers, Wollaston, 
Bauer, and Robert Brown, w'ho all came to the 
conclusion that it was of a vegetable nature, but 
diftered as to its botanical characteristics. Dr. 
Wollaston supposed it to be the seed of some moss ; 
Mr. Brown was inclined to consider it an algse, re- 
lated to Tremella cruentay a common native plant ; 





while Mr. Bauer thought it was a fungus of the genus 
Uredo. Professor Agardh refers it with Brown to 
the lowest order of algse, but standing as a distinct 
genus upon the very limits of the animal and vegeta- 
ble kingdoms. Saussure, indeed, from finding that 
the red snow of the Alps gave out, when burnt, a 
smell like that of plants, concluded that it was of 
vegetable origin, and supposed it to consist of the 
farina of some plant, though he could not trace it to 
its source. Baron Wrangel, again, who discovered a 
production similar or identical with Agardh’s Proto- 
€occus nivalis growing upon limestone rocks, men- 
tions that it was easily detached when placed under 
water, and in three days it was converted into ani- 
mated globules like infusory animalcules, which 
swam about and were made prey of by other infusoria. 
Professor Nees von Esenbeck, of Bonn, is inclined 
to think that the minute red globules, of which 
the Protococcus consists, are the vegetable state of 
bodies which had gone through a previous animal 
existence. 

The Rev. W. Scoresby, on the other hand, conjee 
lures that the red colour of the snow may be traced 
to the same cause as the orange- coloured ice of the 
polar seas, which arises from innumerable minute 
animals belonging to the Radiata, and similar to the 
Beroe globulosa oi' L’dnmrvk. It is about the size of 
a pin’s head, transparent, and marked with twelve 
brownish patches of dots. In olive-green sea water, 
he estimated 110,592 of these in a cubic foot*. 

Agardh remarks, that it is agreed upon all hands 
that the crimson snow always falls in the night, from 
which he infers that it has not been actually seen to 
fall. He thinks it is called into existence by the vivi- 
fying power of the sun’s light, after its warmth has 
caused the snow to dissolve, accompanied by the 
* JaiMson’t Bdin. Jouro., Jan. 1829, p. 55. 

 

incomprehensible power in white snow of producing 
a colour*. 

Rt^aumur says, with much justice, on another oc- 
casion, that an ordinary spectator frequently discovers 
what has escaped the notice of the best observers, 
and so it should seem it has happened in the present 
case, — the learned naturalists just mentioned having 
gone as wide of the facts, as the philosophers at Aix 
in accounting for the supposed shower of blood. 
Mr. Thomas Nicholson, accompanied with two other 
gentlemen, made an excursion the 24th July, 1821, 
to Sowallick Point, near Bushman’s Island, in Prince 
Regent’s Bay, in quest of meteoric iron. “ The 
summit of the hill,” he says, “ forming the point, is 
covered with huge masses of granite, whilst the side 
which forms a gentle declivity towards the bay was 
covered with crimson snow. It was evident, at first 
view, that this colour was imparted to the snow by a 
substance lying on the surface. This substance lay 
scattered here and there in small masses, bearing 
some resemblance to powdered cochineal, surrounded 
by a lighter shade, which was produced by the co- 
louring matter being partly dissolved and diffused by 
the deliquescent snow. During this examination our 
hats and upper garments were observed to be daubed 
with a substance of a similar red colour, and a mo- 
ment’s reflection convinced us that this was the excre- 
ment of the little auk ( Uria alle^ Temminck), my- 
riads of which were continually flying over our heads, 
having their nests among the loose masses of granite. 
A ready explanation of the origin of the red snow 
was now presented to us, and not a doubt remained 
in the mind of any that this was the correct one. 
The snow on the mountains of higher elevation than 
the nests of these birds was perfectly white, and a ra- 
vine at a short distance, which was filled with snow 
* liOudon's Encycl. of Plants^ Pfvtococcus,^ 





from top to bottom, but which afforded no hiding-place 
for these birds to form their nests, presented an ap- 
pearance uniformly white*.” 

This testimony seems to be as clear and indisput- 
able as the explanation given by Peiresc of the 
ejecta of the butterflies at Aix. But though it will 
account, perhaps, for the red snow of the polar re- 
gions, it will not explain that of the Alps, the Apen- 
nines, and the Pyrenees, which are not, so far as we 
know, visited by the little auk. Thus the matter at 
present rests, till it be elucidated by further obser- 
vations. 

* Mag. of Nat. Hist. vol. ii. p. 322. 



NeTHiNG that has life seems capable of existing long 
without motion. The oyster fixed upon the rock 
must open and shut its shell, and the most gnarled 
oak must wave its branches, otherwise their fluids 
will stagnate, and disease will ensue. In our own 
case, we cannot, if we would, put a stop for any 
length of time to all our motions. We have the 
power, indeed, of interrupting the nictitation of the 
eyelids ; but if we keep our eyes fixed for a few mi- 
nutes they become dry and painful for want of the 
regular sufjply of moisture spread over them by the 
process of winking. Breathing, again, being a more 
important operation, cannot be long inlerruyited, 
without serious consequences ; and when the motion 
of any of the limbs is prevented by the accidental 
injury of its joint, it usually shrinks and dwindles 
into less than half its natural magnitude, because the 
proper quantity of the nutritive fluids is not impelled 
thither in consequence of its deficiency of motion. 

We have already seen how indispensable the mo- 
tions of insects are to the due expanding of their 
wings upon emerging from the pupa state; and 
several remarkable circumstances show that, inde- 
pendent of change of place in search «)f food or of 
other localities for their progeny, motion is necessary 
to their well-being. At least there does not seem 
any other plausible explication of what we may term 
stationary motions. Kirby and Spence’s “ motions of 
insects reposing*,” appears to be a phrase which 
would not apply, for example, to an ox chewing the 
cud, or a cat washing her face with her paw, — mo- 
tions precisely similar to many of those of insects 
* Introd. vol. ii. p. 304. 




mentioned by them under this head. The mode 
adopted by cats of cleaning themselves with their 
paws, is, indeed, not a little similar to that of the 
house fly (Musca domestica), which, while it is bask- 
ing in a window and enjoying the heat of the sun, 
may be frequently seen not only brushing its feet 
upon one another to rub off the dust, but equally 
assiduous in cleaning its eyes, head, and corslet with 
its fore-legs, while it brushes its wings with its hind- 
legs*. At the time of writing this, March, 1830, 
we have just witnessed a similar process in a water 
measurer {Hydromeira stagnorum^ Latr.), which 
we had put into a glass containing water, with a 
leaf for it to rest upon. Not liking the narrow pool 
in the glass so well as the brook at Lee, from which 
it had been taken, it began to climb the edges of the 
glass, for which its feet were far from being well 
adapted, and it slipped at every step ; but, deter- 
mined not to be baulked, after several unsuccessful 
trials, it betook itself to the leaf as if to survey the 
obstacles before it again attempted the steep ascent. 
After deliberating for a moment, the thought seemed 
to strike it that its feet were not in the best trim for 
climbing ; and it forthwith began with great assiduity 
to clean them somewhat in a similar way to the fly 
by wiping them upon one another, but with this dif- 
ference, that it did not, like the fly, cross its legs from 
opposite sides, the length and rigidity of the thighs 
preventing such a movement. It did not forget at 
the same time to clean with much care its long an- 
tennae, in order, no doubt, to fit them the better for 
exploring an unknown path. It spent several mi- 
nutes in this preliminary trimming, when it again be- 
gan to mount, and we were no less pleased, perhaps, 
than itself, to see its perseverance rewarded; for, 
aided either by the greater cleanness of its feet, or by 
* iSee Insect Architecture, p* 368. 




some particles of slime and sand adhering to the 
glass, it triumphantly gained the brim, which it began 
to perambulate with an apparent air of proud exul- 
tation *. This insect is figured at 6, page 3S2. 

The process of cleaning and brushing the legs, as 
birds are seen to preen their feathers, is, however, 
the most remarkable, though, perhaps, but seldom 
taken notice of among spiders. The same process, as 
we have recently discovered, is employed by the Pha- 
langia. The apparatus for this is admirably con- 
trived. In the common garden geometric spider 
{Epeira diadem a), the teeth are used as a comb, 
the smooth mandible being employed to hold down 
the limb while it is slowly drawn between the teeth, 
to free it from flue and dust. In some other species, 
instead of smooth teeth, there is a thick-set brush 
of hairs, which is used in the same manner, and 
must be a still more efficient instrument. The former, 
if we do not mistake, chiefly occurs among the 
geometric spiders, whose webs are meshed and thin ; 
while the brush prevails among those which weave 
thick webs, such as the red spider {Dysdera try- 
ihrina, Walckenaeh), which we found in the cre- 
vice of a chalk rock near Erith, in Kent, but which is 
by no means common in Britain, though abundant in 
France. We kept this one for some time in a glass, 
and observed that it spent the greater part of its 
time in brushing its legs. The eyes are placed in 
form of a horse- shoe f. 

It must have struck those who have visited a 
menagerie of wild animals, that, even while they are 
standing in their cages, they frequently throw their 
heads, and also their bodies, into a sort of oscillatory 
movement, evidently not for the purpose of getting 
through the bars, but to supply the place of their 
Ratur^ exercise which conhuement prevents them 
? J. R. t K 







^ red spider (Dyiiera erythrina). 6, the head 6f the red 
spider, magiiitied. c c, the mandibles, fringed on the inside with 
hair, d, the eight eyes, in form of a horse-shoe, e, the head of 
the garden spider \Aranea diadema). fjf, the eight eyes. 
g gt the upper mandibles. A, tojtbed comb. 

from taking*. Perhaps this may help us to account 
for the singular motions of some of the crane flies 
(Tipulid(B)j while stationary upon a window or a 
wall, their whole body vibrating alternately outwards 
and inwards from the wall, with a pendulum-like 
movement, as rapid, or more so, than the clicking of 
a Watch. Kirby and Spence say, this is produced by 
the weight of their bodies and the elasticity of their 
legs ; and that, unless it be connected with respira- 
tion, it is not easy to say what is its object^. To us 
it appears, like the motion of the caged animals just 
mentioned, to be for the purpose of exercising them- 
selves and of driving the fluids into their long legs, 
which may not be ettected in the exercise of flying on 
account of their legs then remaining almost motion- 
less. Others of the same family may be seen hang- 
ing from a wall or ceiling by their fore-legs, whde the 
hind ones are perked out into the air, and moving up 
and down in a slow manner, probably to watch against 
approaching danger, as they are very timid ; and if 
the door of the room where they are be hastily opened 
or shut, or if any other agitation of the air be pttH 

Intr. ii. 306. 

 


duced, they immediately fly o(F*. The long-legged 
spiders, popularly called shepherds and harvest men 
(PhalangidtB, Leach), have a similar mode of ele- 
vating their legs, particularly the second pair, which 
they move about in all directions. 



a, Phalangium ; 6, Hi/drometra stagnorunit magnified. 

It can scarcely have escaped the remark of the 
most indifferent observer, that when butterflies (par- 
ticularly those of the genus Vanessa) alight during 
sunshine on a leaf or a pathway, they flirt their 
wings as a lady does her fan, and perhaps, as has 
been conjectured, for the similar purpose of cooling 
their bodies. But to us it appears more probably with 
the design of impelling air into the tubes of their 
wings to fit them the better for flight ; for we have 
remarked that they uniformly fan their wings when 
about to rise, though they had previously remained 
motionless for an hour together. A pretty family of 
two-winged flies {Syrphid(E'\) may frequently be 
remarked in lanes and on the borders of woods, 
hovering on the wing for a considerable time without 
shifting a hair's-breadth from their place, though the 
motion of their wings is all the while so rapid as to 
be almost imperceptible, similar to some moths 
{Sphingida, Plusia gammaXy whilst sipping 
? J. R. f Seep, 4. • t See p. 214. 




the honey of flowers. The vibratory motion of the 
wings in these instances is only to buoy them up so 
as to retain their place; but the instant they are 
alarmed by the approach of danger, they may be 
seen to take several long slrokes with their wings, 
and dart off with the rapidity of lightning. This is 
well illustrated by the motions of birds preparatory 
to flight, as they may be observed always to take se- 
veral deep inspirations, at the same time often rising 
on tiptoe, and puffing out and balancing their bodies 
to feel whether they have thrown enough air into 
their bones and feathers to float them along. Birds 
of prey (Raptores^ Vigors) seem to have the 
greatest power both of filling their bodies with air 
and of expelling it again at pleasure. Hence the kes- 
tril (Falco tinnuncxdus) may be seen floating about 
for a considerable time without moving a wing, or per- 
haps drawing a breath, till it can hold out no longer, 
when it flutters its wings rapidly, not for moving to 
a different place, for it remains stationary, but to 
recover its decreasing buoyancy by inhaling a fresh 
supply of air. For the same reason a trout will 
oscillate its body when losing ground by the rapidity 
of a stream. The osprey {Falco ossifragus), on the 
other hand, we have seen, at the Kyles of Bute and 
elsewhere, shoot down like a thunderbolt from the 
air into the sea, plunging far into the water upon a 
fish she had marked for her prey^, — a movement only 
to be explained by the rapid expulsion of the air 
which had been the chief agent in keeping her pre- 
viously afloat in the region of the clouds. Many 
birds which prey on smaller game have somewhat 
similar methods of poising and balancing their 
bodies, of which the water-ouzel {Cinclus aquaticus^ 

* ‘‘Super est Haliaetos,” says Pliny, “clarissimsl oculorum 
acie, librans ex alto sese, visoque in inari pisce, pra^cepa in eum 
ruens, et discussis aquis, rapiens.’*— //{«/. Nat, 




Bechstein) furnishes a good example, putting itself 
in a constant state of preparation, jerking its pie- 
bald head up and down as it skips from stone to 
stone of the brook, to pounce under water upon the 
first grub it espies swimming. In the same way 
the red-breast (Sylvia rubeeula) pops jerking about 
when on the look-out for caterpillars ; and so habitual 
does this become, that he does not fail to go through 
the manoeuvre when he pecks up a crumb at the cot- 
tage door, as well as when he pounces upon a cater- 
pillar in the woods, where it is often indispensable to 
secure the aim to prevent the insect putting in force 
some stratagem of escape*. 

We may next turn to a small two-winged fly, 
which, though equally common in gardens and else- 
where with the fanning butterflies {Vanessts) just 
alluded to, we can scarcely (considering its size) ex- 
pect to have attracted the notice of tliose who pay 
little attention to insects. We allude to the vibrating 
fly (Seioptera vihravs^ Kirby), which is not above a 
third of the size of the house-fly, but may be known 
by its shining black body, scarlet head, and transpa- 
rent wings, tipped with black. This tiny little crea- 
ture whether it trips over a leaf, or remains sta- 
tionary basking in the sunshine, is continually vi- 
brating its wings. “This motion,’^ says Kirby, “I 
have reason to think, assists its respiration but as 
he has not stated his reason, we are led, from an 
experiment which we tried, to doubt the conclusion. 
Having always seen the fly vibrating its wings in 
the sunshine only, as if it enjoyed the warmth and 
rejoiced in the feeling of existence, we wished to see 
how it would comport itself at night, and enclosed 
one under an inverted wine glass for observation. 
The conjecture which we had formed appeared to be 
correct ; for though, when moving about the glass, 
?J.R. 


 


it vibrated its wings as much by candle-light as in 
the sunshine, probably from the habit of associating 
the two movements, yet, whenever it remained sta- 
tionary, it kept the wings motionless. Had the 
motion been indispensable to respiration, and analo- 
gous to the motion of the gills of fish, or the panting 
in the anal scale of the water-louse (Asellus aqua- 
ticus^ Leach), this cessation would not have taken 
place at night. 

We are, therefore, perhaps justified in concluding 
that the vibration of the wings in this little fly is an 
indication of being pleased ; in the same way as a 
nestling sparrow, when fed by its dam, will half 
stretch its wings, and, as Thomson finely expresses 
it, will 

Quiver eveiy feather with desire 

or as a lamb when sucking will vibrate its tail, as 
well as the pretty birds popularly termed wagtails 
{Motacillce), when they perambulate the margin of a 
stream and find a plentiful banquet of insects to 
their liking. 

It may prove still more interesting, we think, to 
turn our attention to some other movements of in- 
sects which seem to be expressive of pleasure when 
they are not stationary, and leaving out of considera- 
tion, also, their foraging for food. A familiar in- 
stance of what we allude to (occurs in the aerial 
dances of the tipulidan gnats and some other in- 
sects. These are performed not only in summer, but 
frequently even in winter and in the earlier months 
of spring, — in sheltered places, indeed, such as under 
trees and hedges, in lanes, and when a day chances 
to be finer than usual, though the mildest day is of 
course at these seasons comparatively chill. The 
most common of these winter dancers is called by 
Harris the tell-tale {Trichocera hiemalis, Meigen), a 




troop of which may be occasionally seen gamboling 
in a sunny nook, though the ground be covered with 
snow. When the weather is warm and mild, how- 
ever, the dancing TipxdidfB prefer the decline of day; 
and we have remarked them keeping it up as long 
as we could distinguish them between the eye and 
the waning light of the western horizon : how much 
longer they continued to dance we cannot tell. 

It is a very singular fact connected with these 
gnat dances, that the company always consists exclu- 
sively of males. This any person who will take the 
trouble may verify by enclosing a group of them in 
a butterfly-net. If this be not at hand, )\e may pro- 
cure good evidence by wetting the hand, and passing 
it quickly amongst the thickest of the crowd ; when 
several will be caught, and will uniformly exhibit the 
beautifully fringed or plumed antennae, which in the 
female are without the hairs or the plumelets. What 
it may be, besides the same delighted and buoyant 
spirit which causes lambs to group together in their 
frolics, that induces those tiny gnats to sport in this 
manner on the wing, is, perhaps, inexplicable. 

Wordsworth^s opinion, though adopted by Kirby 
and Spence, is, perhaps, as we shall presently endea- 
vour to show, more poetical than correct. His words 
are:— 

** Nor wanting here to entertain the thought, 

Creatures that in communities exist, 

Less, as might seem, for general guardianship, 

Or through dependence upon mutual aid, 

Than by participation of delight, 

And a strict love of fellowship combined. 

What other spirit can it be that prompts 
The gilded summer flies to mix and weave 
Their sports together in the solar beam. 

Or, in the gloom and twilight, hum their joy.” 

T/ie Excursion, 

Tlie evening gamboling of rooks on the wing, 






when they return from their more distant excursions 
during the autumn, may with more certainty be re- 
ferred to this cause. White says, they rendezvous 
by thousands over Selborne Down, wheeling round 
and diving in a playful manner in the air, and when 
this ceremony is over, with the last gleam of light, 
they retire to the deep beech woods of Tisted and 
Kepley. It may not be improper, however, to dis- 
tinguish between this and the restless tossing about 
and flapping of the wings, often exhibited by rooks 
previous to a storm, which more usually occurs in the 
morning, and closely resembles the tossing of sea- 
birds on the billows during a gale*. 

The quickness of the vision of tipulidan gnats, and 
the rapidity as well as the dexterity of their motion, 
may be considered not a little remarkable, from the 
circumstance of their flying unwetted in a heavy 
shower of rain, whose drops — bigger than their own 
bodies — if they fell upon them, must dash them to the 
ground t ; unless it may be that the drops glide off 
their wings as they do off the feathers of a duck, while 
the elasticity of their bodies may save them from 
accidents, even when they chance to be pelted. 

Avery pretty species of these choral flies (CAzro- 
nomvs aterrimm\ Meigen), is exceedingly common 
in the vicinity of London, appearing about the close 
of winter, and readily distinguished by its shining 
snow-white wings, rendered more conspicuous by the 
contrast of its black body, while the male has his 
antenna} adorned with beautiful lead* grey plumelets. 
Though groups of these may be found sporting on 
the borders of woods and near water, even in January, 
proving that, though not half the size of the common 
gnat {Culex pipiens), they can brave the bleak winds 
of winter, — yet they often crowd into our apartments, 
like many others of the family. We have just been 
* J. R. -j- Kirby and Spence, vol.ii. p. 374. 




watching the proceedings of a pair of these elegant 
little creatures by candle-light, when they are more 
lively and alert than in the sunshine. We were 
reading a large quarto book with wide print and very 
broad margins, the white colour of which seemed not 
only to attract but to deceive them in the same way 
as a bird or a blow-fly will mistake a pane of glass 
for the “ viewless air,** and dash recklessly against 
it. Our little snowy-winged flies, apparently from a 
similar mistake, dashed themselves about on the 
pages of the book. We have been accustomed, from 
boyhood, to see gnats and other insects tumbling 
about in a similar manner when we have been read- 
ing at night, a circumstance which few of our readers 
can have failed to observe ; but we always pitied them 
on the supposition that it was in consequence of their 
heedlessly singeing their wings in the candle, and 
thus unfitting themselves to fly. This, no doubt, is a 
frequent cause of their falling on a book ; but it was 
not so with the two flies which we observed, for they 
remained quite perfect and uninjured. The most 
remarkable circumstance was, that they almost uni- 
formly fell on the back, which seems to indicate that 
they fly with the back downwards, a mode of flight 
not a little singular, though it has an analogy to the 
swimming of some aquatic insects {Notojiectidee^ 
Leach). When they felt the paper, they spun round 
in circles and half circles with great rapidity, and 
evidently not so much for the purpose of getting 
upon their feet as of continuing the gyrations they 
had been performing while on the wing. This we in- 
ferred from their being in no hurry to get up, and 
from their continuing, even when they got upon their 
feet, to wheel round and round, as if waltzing with 
the express design of showing that they could dance 
on the “ light fantastic toe,** as well as on the wing. 
Their circular movement is not peculiar to them, 





being observable in several others of the family, par- 
ticularly in a still smaller fly with black pellucid 
wings {Molobrus?)^ and not uncommon in sum- 
mer, whose extremely rapid motion we have often 
admired as it performs its minute gyrations on a 
leaf or the petal of a flower. 

It was no less remarkable, that the two snowy- 
winged gnats just mentioned were male and fe- 
male, as the latter is seldom seen, and when the 
males swarm upon a window, a single female can 
scarcely be found ; but though they were flirting 
about on the same page, they took not the slightest 
notice of one another, and each went through its 
gyrations as if unconscious of the other’s presence. 
The female, besides, contrary to what is usual among 
insects, was by far the most alert and agile of the 
two ; in so much that, though it was early in March, 
we at first mistook her for the minute summer fly 
alluded to in last paragraph *. 

From all we have observed, we think it probable, 
that notwithstanding the apparent sociality of the 
dancing gnats {Tipvlida'^, they do not congregate 
in consequence of any gregarious feelings, or for 
mutual assistance ; but merely because they are pro- 
duced in numbers in the same places, and individually 
prefer similar haunts. The individual sportive move- 
ments of the two snowy-winged flies just described, 
which were performed on the contiguous pages of a 
book, or severally at the top and bottom of the same 
page, prove that they do not consider the presence 
of numbers indispensable. This position is farther 
illustrated by the proceedings of an insect of a very 
different family — the whirlwig beetles {GyrinidcBy 
Leach), which may be seen on the surface of every 
pool weaving their eccentric dances, and twinkling 
their polished corselets in the sun, both in summer 
and, as we have remarked, throughout the winter. 

? J.R. 


 


These are most frequently observed frolicking in 
parties of from two to a dozen or more ; but we 
have very frequently seen an individual performing 
his gyrations with the same alacrity when alone as 
when mingling with his companions. We conclude, 
therefore, that the apparent sociality of these insects 
has no closer bond than that of the vultures which 
crowd to devour the same carcase, or of the unsocial 
sea-birds which congregate near a shoal of fish*. 

Kirby and Spence appear to be of a different 
opinion : — these “ little beetles,” say they, “ which 
may be seen clustering in groups under warm banks 
in every river and every pool, and wheeling round 
and round with great velocity ; at your approach 
dispersing and diving under water, but, as soon as 
you retire, resuming their accustomed movements, — 
seem to be under the influence of the social principle, 
and to form their assemblies for no other purpose 
than to enjoy together in the sun-shine the mazy 
dance t.*’ 

The following account of the manners of this 
beetle, by Mr. Knapp, is well worth extracting; 
though it is much more lively and interesting than 
strictly correct : 

“ Water, quiet, still water, affords a place of action 
to a very amusing little fellow (^Gy rimes natator)^ 
which, about the month of April, if the weather be 
tolerably mild, we see gamboling upon the surface 
of the sheltered pool ; and every schoolboy, who has 
angled for minnows in the brook, is well acquainted 
with this merry swimmer in his shining black 
Jacket. Retiring in the autumn, and reposing all the 
winter in the mud at the bottom of the pond, it 
awakens in the spring, rises to the surface, and com- 
mences its summer sports J. They associate in small 

* .T. R. f Intr. vol. ii. p. 4. 

J We have seen them throughout the severe winter of 1829-30, 
sporting on the unfrozen springs at Lee, in Kent, J. R. 





parties of ten or a dozen, near the bank, where some 
little projection forms a bay, or renders the water 
particularly tranquil ; and here they will circle round 
each other without contention, each in his sphere, 
and with no apparent object, from morning until 
night, with great sprightliness and animation ; and so 
lightly do they move on the fluid, as to form only 
some faint and transient circles on its surface. Very 
fond of society, we seldom see them alone, or, if 
parted by accident, they soon rejoin their busy com- 
panions. One pool commonly affords space for the 
amusement of several parties ; yet they do not unite 
or contend, but perform their cheerful circlings in 
separate family associations. If we interfere with 
their merriment they seem greatly alarmed, disperse, 
or dive to the bottom, where their fears shortly sub- 
side, as we soon again see our little merry friends 
gamboling as before. This plain, tiny, gliding 
water- flea seems a very unlikely creature to arrest 
our young attentions; but the boy with his angle has 
not often much to engage his notice, and the social 
active parties of this nimble swimmer, presenting 
themselves at these periods of vacancy, become in- 
sensibly familiar to his sight, and by many of us are 
not observed in after-life without recalling former 
hours, scenes of, perhaps, less anxious days: for 
trifles like these, by reason of some association, are 
often remembered, when things of greater moment 
pass off* and leave no trace upon the mind^.” 

“ The gyrinus,’’ say Kirby and Spence, “ seems 
the merriest and most agile of all the inhabitants of 
the waves. Wonderful is the velocity with which 
they turn round and round, as it were pursuing each 
other in incessant circles, sometimes moving in 
oblique, and indeed in every other direction. Now 
and then they repose on the surface as if fatigued 
* Journal of a Naturalist, p.307. 





with their dances, and desirous of enjoying the full 
effect of the sunbeam: if you approach, they are 
instantaneously in motion again. Attempt to entrap 
them with your net, and they are under the water and 
dispersed in a moment. When the danger ceases, 
they re-appear and resume their vagaries. Covered 
with lucid armour, when the sun shines they look like 
little dancing masses of silver and brilliant pearl 
The gyrations of the whirlwig are equalled in 
rapidity by its diving, when its sports are intruded 
upon by our approach. Its great quickness of sight, 
indeed, is quite surprising ; and is to be accounted for 
by one of the most striking instances of providential 
contrivance with which we are acquainted. Land 
animals see indifferently under water, and aquatic 
animals imperfectly in air ; and an animal with an 
eye equally fitted for seeing in water and in air, 
can, on account of the great difference of the me- 
diums, possess but imperfect vision in either. The 
little whirlwig, to obviate this difficulty, is furnished 
with two sets of eyes, one pair being placed on the 
upper part of the forehead for seeing in air, and 
another pair on the under part of the forehead, ex- 
actly under the first, and separated from them by a 
thin membrane, for seeing in water. As it swims 
half submerged, the latter pair of eyes must be 
very useful in warning the insect of approaching 
danger, from fishes or rapacious larvae below, while 
the former watch with equal keenness the ap- 
proach of enemies above. The hind feet are no less 
admirably formed for swimming, being broad, thin 
and elastic ; while the fore feet are constructed to 
answer the purpose of hands for the seizing of prey. 
The little animal is, besides all these wonderful 
organs, furnished with a pair of ample wings for 
transporting itself, should the water of its native 
? Intr, voU ii. p, 372, 





pool chance to dry up in summer, and force it to 
emigrate. 

The sporting of butterflies in pairs, trios, or more, 
has been looked upon by some as pugnacious skir- 
mishing. “ A few of our lepidopterous creatures,” 
says Mr. Knapp, “ especially the common white 
butterflies of our gardens, are contentious animals, 
and drive away a rival from their haunts. We see 
them progressively ascending into the air, in ardent 
unheeding contest ; and thus they are observed, cap- 
tured, and consumed in a moment by some watchful 
bird ; but we have few more jealous and pugnacious 
than the little elegant blue argus butterfly {Polyom- 
matus Alexis^ Stephens), noted and admired by all. 
When fully animated it will not sutfer any of its 
tribe to cross its path, or approach the flower on 
which it sits, with impunity ; even the large admirable 
(Vanessa atalania^y at these times, it will assail and 
drive away. There is another small butterfly, the 
copper (Lyccena Phlceas^ Fabr.), however, as hand- 
some and, perhaps, still more quarrelsome, frequent- 
ing too the same station and flowers ; and a constant 
warfare exists between them. We shall see these 
diminutive creatures, whenever they come near each 
other, dart into action, and continue bulFeting one 
another about till one retires from the contest ; when 
the victor returns in triumph to the station he had 
left. Should the enemy again advance, the combat 
is renewed ; but should a cloud obscure the sun, or 
a breeze chill the air, their ardour becomes abated 
and contention ceases. The copper butterfly enjoys 
a combat even with its kindred. Two of them are 
seldom disturbed, when basking on a knot of asters 
in September, without mutual strife ensuing. Being 
less aflected by cold and moisture than the argus, 
they remain with us longer, and these contentions 
are protracted till late in the autumn. The pugna- 
cious disposition of tlie argus butterfly soon deprives 


 


it of much of its beauty ; and, unless captured soon 
after its birth, we find the margins of its wings torn 
and jagged, the elegant blue plumage rubbed from the 
wings, and the creature become dark and shabby*.” 

We are of opinion, on the other hand, that these 
butterfly skirmishings are not prompted by testiness 
nor Jealousy, but by the spirit of gaiety and frolic — 
the buoyant feelings arising from the air expanded 
in their wings and bodies by the warm sunshine, 
causing the living principle to increase even to exu- 
berance. Were these, indeed, actual combats among 
the males, like those which take place among game- 
cocks or ruff’s {Tringa pygnax, Linn.), nature 
would probably have furnished them with weapons 
suited to such warfare. But butterflies have neither 
spurs, claws, nor sharp bills, wherewith to assail an 
enemy ; and though they might flap one another with 
their wings, till their tiny feathers flew about like a 
snow-shower, yet we never have observed them do 
so, as Mr. Knapp’s description seems to imply. On 
the contrary, they appear actually to take care that 
such an accident should not occur while they frisk 
about one another, rising, falling, and performing 
zigzag pirouettes in the air, as we see kittens or 
puppies do on the ground, in their more clumsy but 
no less frolicksome gambols. Did these skirmishes, 
besides, originate in rivalry or jealousy, we should 
always see the butterflies combating in couples, for we 
never see two or three game-cocks set upon an indi- 
vidual ; but it is by no means uncommon to see three 
and we have observed as many as five butterflies, all 
equally engaged in these supposed battles, and each 
bouncing and popping indiscriminately at the others 
without ever coming to blows. It seldom happens 
that they actually touch one another, however long 
they may be at play, — a circumstance which of itself 
is sufficient to prove our position. 

? Journ, of a Naturalist, p. 277. 





A more extraordinary display of insect dancing-, 
and which in some instances seems better entitled to 
the name of a balU than our own dancing parties, 
occurs amongst the day-flies (EphemeridiB), whose 
short-lived existence renders it necessary for them to 
make the most of the few hours at their disposal. 
The narrative of the observations made by Reaumur 
upon this subject is too interesting to admit of much 
abridgment. It is not a little singular, he remarks, 
that moths, which fly only in the night, and shun the 
day, should be precisely those that come to seek the 
light in our apartments ; but it is still more wonderful 
that the ephemerie — which, appearing after sun-set 
and dying before sun-rise, are destined never to 
behold the dawn of day, — should have so strong an 
inclination for any luminous object. 

It is usually about the middle of August that 
the ephemerae of the Seine and Marne are ex- 
pected by the fishermen, and when their season is 
come they talk of the manna beginning to appear, 
calling the insects by this term on account of the 
quantity of food for the fish, which falls as the manna 
is recorded to have done in the desert. On the 
19th of August, ReJaumur, having received notice 
that the flies had begun to appear, and that millions 
of them were coming out of the water, got into his 
boat about three hours before sunset ; but after stay- 
ing in the boat till eight o’clock without seeing any, 
he resolved, as a storm was foreboded, to return. 
He had previously detached from the banks of the 
river several masses of earth filled with pupa?, which 
he put into a large tub full of water. His servants, 
who were carrying the tub home, had scarcely set it 
upon one of the steps of the stairs leading from his 
garden to the Marne, when he heard them exclaim, 

“ What a prodigious number of ephemerae are here!” 
He immediately seized one of the torches and ran to 

 


the tub, where he found every piece of earth above 
the surface of the water swarming with the flies, 
some just beginning to quit their old skin, others 
preparing to fly, and others already on the wing, 
while every where under water they were seen in a 
greater or less degree of forwardness. The threatened 
storm of rain and lightning at length coming on, he 
was compelled to leave the interesting scene ; but, to 
prevent the escape of the insects, he had the tub 
covered with a cloth. The violence of the rain ceased 
in about half an hour, when he returned to the garden, 
and as soon as the cloth was removed from the tub 
he perceived that the number of the flies was pro- 
digiously augmented, and continued to increase for 
some time as he stood watching them. Many flew 
away, and many more were drowned, but the number 
which had already undergone their transformation 
from the earth in the tub w^ould have been sufiicient 
to fill it, exclusively of crowds of others which the 
light had attracted from a distance. He again spread 
the cloth over the tub, and the light was held above 
it: immediately the cloth was almost concealed by 
the vast multitudes which alighted upon it, and they 
might have been taken by handfulls ifom the candle- 
stick. What he had observed, however, at the tub, 
was nothing to the scene now exhibited on the banks 
of the river, to which he was again attracted by the 
exclamations of his gardener. 

“ The countless numbers,’' he says, “ of ephe- 
merae which swarmed over the water can neither be 
conceived nor expressed. Wlien snow falls thickest 
and in the largest flakes, the air is never so com- 
pletely full of them as that which we witnessed filled 
with ephemersB. 1 had scarcely remained a few 
minutes in one place, when the step on which I stood 
was covered in every part with their bodies, from two 
to four inches in depth. Near the lowest step, a 





surface of water, of five or six feet dimensions every 
way, was entirely covered with a thick layer of them, 
and those which the stream swept away were more 
than replaced by the multitudes that were continually 
falling, I was repeatedly compelled to abandon my 
station, from not being able to bear the shower of 
insects, which, not falling perpendicularly like rain, 
struck me incessantly and in a manner extremely 
uncomfortable, pelting against every part of my face, 
and filling iny eyes, nose, and mouth almost to suffo- 
cation. On this occasion it was no pleasant post to 
hold the light, for our torch-bearer had his clothes 
covered with the insects in a few moments, which 
rushed in from all quarters to overwhelm him. 

“ The light of the torch gave origin to a spectacle 
which enchanted every one who beheld it, and alto- 
gether different from a meteorological shower; even the 
most stupid and iinobserving of my domestics were 
never satisfied with gazing at it. No armillary sphere 
was ever formed of so many circular zones in every 
possible direction, having the light for their common 
centre. Their number seemed to be infinite, crossing 
each other in all directions, and in every imaginable 
degree and inclination — all of which were more or less 
oblique. Each of these zones was composed of an 
unbroken string of ephemera?, which followed each 
other close in the same line as if they had been tied 
together head and tail, resembling a piece of silver 
ribbon deeply indented on its edges, and consisting 
of equal triangles placed end to end — so that the 
angles of those that followed were supported by the 
base of those which preceded, the whole moving 
round with incredible velocity. This spectacle was 
caused by the wings of the insects, which alone could 
be distinguished. Each of these flies, after having 
described one or two orbits, fell to the. earth, or into 


 


the water, though not in consequence of having been 
burned*.” 

It is conjectured by Kirby and Spence, that 
Reaumur, though he was unquestionably a most 
accurate observer, may have mistaken the rapid 
movements of single flies, and the deception of 
vision thence arising, for a numerous troop, following 
one another in zoned circular lines, — a mistake which 
they were once upon the point of committing when 
observing the dances of certain small flies which 
moved in spirals ; closer observation, however, proved 
that what appeared to be a continuous line of flies, 
was produced by the rapid motion of an individual. 
Be this as it may, it will not alter the singularity of 
the spectacle. Some of our British ephemerae begin 
their dances with the dawn, instead of waiting till 
sun-set, — rising and falling continually over the 
meaidows in May, sometimes beating the air rapidly 
with their wings, and sometimes skimming about like 
hawks t. Those again which we observed in August, 
rising from the Rhine, did not dance at all, but flew 
in a heavy, unsteady, and lumbering manner above 
the current of the river 

In speaking of what appear to be the sports of 
insects, we cannot omit taking notice of the very 
singular proceedings of some species of ants, which, 
at the intervals of busy industry, amuse themselves 
with something apparently analogous to our wrest- 
ling and racing matches. Bonnet says, he observed 
a small species of ants, which employed themselves 
in carrying each other on their backs, the rider hold- 
ing with his mandibles the neck of his bearer, and 
embracing it closely with his legs§, the position 

? Reaumur, Mem. vol. vi. p. 485. 

f Kirby and Spence, vol. ii. p. 373. J J. R. 

§ Bonnet, CEuvres, vol.ii. p. 407. 




which the renowned John Gilpin may have some- 
times been disposed to assume in his famous race 
throui^h Edmonton. But thou<^h the very palpable 
mistakes committed by Bonnet respecting^ these very 
ants* may, perhaps, tend to invalidate his authority 
with respect to their riding*, we have the undoubted 
testimony of both Gould and Huber for their wrest- 
lings. “ Yon may frequently,** says Gould, “ per- 
ceive one of these ants (Formica ntfa, Latr,) run 
to and fro with a fellow-labourer in his Ibrceps of 
the same species and colony.** Mr. Gould observed, 
that, after being carried for some time, it was let go 
in a friendly manner and received no personal injury. 
This amusement is often repeated, particularly among 
the hill ants, who are very fond of this sportive 
exercise t- 

It was amongst the same species, that Huber ob- 
served similar proceedings,which he has describedwith 
his usual minuteness and accuracy. “ I approached,** 
he says, “ one day to the formicary of wood ants, 
exposed to the sun and sheltered from the north. 
The ants were heaped upon one another in great 
numbers, and appeared to enjoy the temperature on 
the surface of the nest. None of them were at work, 
and the immense multitude of insects ])resented the 
appearance of a liquid iii the state of ebullition, upon 
which the eye could scarcely be fixed without diffi- 
culty; but when I examined the conduct of each 
ant, 1 saw them approach one another, moving their 
antenna? with astonishing rapidity, while they patted 
with a slight movement the cheeks of other ants. 
After these preliniinary gestures which resembled 
caressing, they were observed to raise themselves 
upright oil their hind legs by pairs, struggle together, 
seize each other by a mandible, foot, or antenna, and 

? Huber on Ants, pref, and pp. 21 1 and 233. 
f Gould on Ants, p. 102, &c. 

 


then immediately relax their hold to recommence the 
attack. They fastened upon each other’s shoulders, 
or bellies, embraced and overthrew each other, then 
raised themselves by turns, taking their revenge 
without producing any serious mischief. They did not 
spurt out their venom as in their combats, nor retain 
their opponents with that obstinacy which we observe 
in their real quarrels. They presently abandoned 
those which they had first seized, and endeavoured to 
catch others. I have seen some who were so eager 
in these exercises, that they pursued several workers 
in succession, and struggled with them a few 
moments, the skirmish only terminating when the least 
animated, having overthrown his antagonist, succeeded 
in escaping and hiding in one of the galleries. In 
one place, two ants appeared to be gamboling 
about a stalk of grass,— turning alternately to avoid 
or seize each other, which brought to my recollection 
the sport and pastime of young dogs when they rise 
on their hind-legs, attempting to bite, overthrow, and 
seize each other, without once closing their teeth. 
To witness these facts, it is necessary to approach the 
ant-hills with much caution, that the ants should 
have no idea of our presence; if they had, they 
would cease at the moment their plays or their occu- 
pations, would put themselves in a posture of defence, 
curve up their tails, and ejaculate their venom*.” 

? M. P. Huber on Ants, p. 203. 





Peculiar Looomotioni. 

Those who have attended to the paces of the larger 
animals, are well aware of their almost infinite 
variety ; but the differences between the heavy tread of 
the elephant or the waddling roll of an overgrown 
pig, the elegant pace of a blood-horse or the 
sprightly trip of an antelope, will bear no comparison 
with the infinite diversities observable among the 
movements of insects. We look upon the long legs 
of the giraffe and the crane as inelegant and dispro- 
portionate, how well suited soever they may be to 
their mode of life : but what should we think of a 
species of giraffe, with legs long enough to enable it 
to overtop the tallest trees, so as to browse on their 
tops as oxen do on the grass of a meadow, while it 
walked at ease through woods and forests ; or of a 
wren or sparrow with legs as long as the hop-poles 
among which it prowled to prey upon aphides and 
lady-birds. But animals of such descriptions, wildly 
imaginary as they must be confessed to be, may be 
readily matched in the insect world. The pendulum 
crane fly (Tipula motitatrix), formerly mentioned, 
as well as the shepherd spider fPhalavgivm 
opilioj, described in the same place, are remarkable 
examples of this; and we have still more striking 
instances in the large clouded-winged crane fly 
(Tipula gigantea, Meigen), popularly termed father 
longlegs, or jenny-spinner, their stilted legs enabling 
these insects to overtop the grass as they walk in the 
meadows, in the same way as our imaginary giraffe 



 


would overtop the trees in a forest. We have been 
more struck with instances of this in some of the 
bug tribe, because here it was least to have been 
expected. In our earlier entomological researches, 
we frequently noticed, upon a white-washed wall, a 
very strange looking insect, if insect it might be 
called, moving about in the most awkward manner 
imaginable. It looked, however, more like a slip of 
gray tree bark, not half the breadth of a wheat-straw, 
that had been accidentally caught on some straggling 
films of spiders’ web, which allowed it to oscillate 
irregularly in the air, than a real living creature, — for 
the long gossamer legs did not, to the unassisted eye, 
appear to move at all, and the slender awkward 
body progressed by interrupted jerks (if such 
slow motions may be so termed), resembling the 
movement of the minute-hand of a clock. The 
glass, however, showed that the body was covered by 
the folds of four membranous wings, prettily mottled, 
which lay in a hollow groove on the back, while the 
long slender legs were elegantly ringed with white. 
It was, in short, one of the numerous family of plant- 
bugs (Neides elegans? Curtis) which had strayed 
from the adjacent garden to the wall. Another 
occurred in the same place somewhat similar, but 
considerably smaller, and stalked along with equally 
awkward jerks, upon only its four hind-legs, while it 
kept its two fore-legs, which were greatly shorter, 
folded up under its belly, in readiness, probably, to 
seize on the first luckless mite or aphis that came in 
its way*. The latter appears to be the wandering 
plant-bug (Ploiaria vagabunday Scopoli). 

Many insects are capable of performing a feat 
which no other animal could accomplish without the 
aid of the water-shoes lately invented — we allude to 
walking on the water, as distinct from swimming, 
* J. R. 



a h 


a, Ploiaria vagabunda^ magnified, b, Ncides elegans^ magnified. 

which most, if not all animals, save man, can do 
without instruction. The whirl wig beetle (fiyrinus 
natator) can scarcely be said either to walk, run, or 
swim, — for, as we have taken some pains to ascertain, 
it appears not to keep its “ oary feet^' plunged in 
the water as it flits about, but strikes smartly out, 
and suddenly folds them flat under its belly ; on the 
same principle as a waterman on the Thames may 
be seen to give two or three quick pulls with his oars, 
to put way, as he calls it, upon his wherry, and then 
perking them up out of the water, lets it skim along 
while he rests motionless. Thus does the little 
whirlwig glide along the water as if by magic, for 
we cannot see its I’eet moving on account of the 
border of the wing cases {elytra) which overlap 
them ; no more than we can discern the feet of a swan, 
from their dark colour, resembling that of the water, 
even when she skims about at a small distance from 
the shore*. 

Most people must have been amused by observing 
the groups of water insects which seem to delight in 

* J.R. 







swimminir against small streams, and apparently 
more for the purpose of maintaining their place than 
of making farther progress upwards. The most 
common of these are two aquatic bugs of different 
genera — the one {Gerris locustris, La.tr.) with a 
long blackish body and legs, and white belly, though 
more clumsy in form than the water measurer (Hy- 
drometra stagnorum) formerly mentioned ; and the 
other (Velia currens^ Latr.), with short body 
and feet, black, with a red line running along each 
side. We have been still more amused with a 
dark greenish grey spider {Lycosa Saccata, Latr.), 
which, when we approach near its haunts on the 
margin of a stream, does not take shelter in the grass, 
nor in the holes of the bank, as most of its kindred 
would do, but trips away over the water, where it 
appears to know instinctively that we cannot so easily 
pursue it. This is not, however, the diving water 
spider (Argyroneta aqnaiica)^ for though it can 
dive and remain under water, it does not seem to 
relish this, except when driven to the measure 



A Hydrmctra stagnorum. c rf, Hydrachnn Geographicay Lath., 
front and back Tio)v, both magnibeo. 0, Vclia rivuhrum^ Lata. 

* J. R. 





Some of these water insects have such slender feet, 
that we can only explain their not sinking in the water 
on the same principle as that of a small needle float- 
ing when very dry and laid exactly level. Others 
again have their feet fringed with fine hairs which 
buoy them up; while the tipiilidan gnats {Chironomi) 
and other flies, are, perhaps, aided by their wings in 
keeping them afloat; for we have observed several 
aquatic flies skimming on the surface of the water, 
apparently half running, half flying. Linnaeus saw 
one of these little tipula% of a black colour, per- 
forming gyrations on the water similar to those of 
the whirlwig {Gyrinvs): others use their wings as 
the swan does, by way of a sail. 

Other insects walk both through the water, and at 
its bottom, in a similar manner to walking on land, 
and not by striking with their feet, as is done in 
swimming. It is in this manner that the minute 
pretty water-mite {Hydrachna geographical Mul- 
ler), may be seen in every ditch and pond around 
London, pacing along, often in company with a still 
more showy one {Limvochares holoacricca, Latr.), 
whose bright scarlet colour renders it very easily re- 
cognised, and may readily lead a young naturalist to 
suppose that the scarlet satin mite {Trombidium 
holosericeiim^ Latr.), so frequent on dry banks in the 
spring, has abandoned the laud for the water. The 
latter, however, is much larger. 

The amphibious nature ol' those winged beetles 
which can walk at the bottom of water, is matched, 
if not out-rivalled, by the water-ouzel {Cinclus 
aquations, Bechstein), which we have repeatedly seen 
walk deliberately under water, and continue its pace 
for many yards, as if it had been on land*. As this 


* J.R. 



 


little bird lives on water insects and the fry of fish, 
its amphibious powers are indispensable. 

Some of these aquatic insects, such as the whirl wig, 
are so highly polished, that the water will not adhere 
to their bodies ; while others (Hydrophilic &c.) are 
covered below with a thick coating of silky hair, which 
repels the water and usually surrounds them with a 
globule of air that shines under v\ ater like quicksilver. 
The spider mentioned above is similarly furnished 
with downy hair for the same purpose. 

In walking, insects exhibit endless peculiarities. 
The hunting spiders, and many of the midges (Psy- 
chod(By Latr.), instead of walking straightforwards, 
most usually walk obliquely, and often at right-angles 
to the line of their own bodies ; while most insects 
can, when it is necessary, walk directly backwards 
with almost as much facility as forwards. Wlien 
the centipedes (Scolopeiidridce, Leach) walk back- 
wards, they only use their four hind-legs, and these, 
when they walk in the usual way, are not employed, 
but dragged after them like the locked wheel of a mail- 
coach in driving down a steep hill. It was first 
observed, we believe, by Kirby, that a millepede 
common under stones, the bark of trees, and the 
hollow stems of decaying plants, and provincially 
called maggy-manyfeet (Julus terrestris)^ performs 
its serpent-like motion by extending alternate por- 
tions of its numerous legs beyond the line of the 
body, while those in the intervals preserve a vertical 
direction. So long, then, as it keeps moving, little 
bunches of the legs are alternately in and out from 
one end to the other of its long body, the undulating 
line pf motion successively beginning at the head and 
passing off at the tail*. We may ^d, that the form 
and structure of this insect are admirably adapted 
* Intr, vol, ii. p. 309. 





to its mode of life, it being long and of small dia- 
meter, to enable it to thread its way through narrow 
holes ; while its covering is highly polished to facili- 
tate its passage, and so hard as to prevent it being 
lacerated by any splinter of wood which it might 
chance to encounter, while it is at the same time so 
flexible, that it can coil itself up into a circle of very 
small diameter. The hardness and the flexibility, 
though apparently incompatible, are produced by a 
similar contrivance to that of the spine in man — the 
whole body of the julus being composed of small 
hard rings united by flexible joints*. 

Instances have occurred in which a sheep or a 
cow has come into the world with legs upon its back: 
this, of course, is a monstrosity out of the usual course 
of nature; but in a very singular insect, the bat- 
louse (JSfycteribia Hermanniy Leach), the legs 
appear to have their usual place on the back. “It 
transports itself,” says Colonel Montagu, “ with 
such celerity, from one part of the animal it inhabits 
to the opposite and most distant, although obstructed 
by the extreme thickness of the fur, that it is not 
readily taken.” — “ When two or three were put into 
a small phial, their agility appeared inconceivably 
great ; for, as their feet are incapable of fixing upon 
so smooth a body, their whole exertion was employed 
in laying hold of each other ; and in this most curious 
struggle, they appeared actually flying in circles: 
and when the bottle was reclined, they would fre- 
quently pass from one end to the other with astonish- 
ing velocity, accompanied by the same gyrations : if 
by accident they escaped each other, they very soon 
became motionless ; and as quickly were the whole 
put in motion again by the least touch of the bottle 
or the movement of an individual t.” 

Many of the beetles run with great velocity, and 
I*R. f Linn, Trans, vol, xi. p. 13. 

2 I 






dart off into holes and comers so suddenly, as often 
to escape the quickest movements of an insect 
hunter. It is remarkable, however, that those swift- 
footed insects seldom run far without making a full 
pause to reconnoitre their position, as a deer may be 
seen to arch his neck from behind a tree to examine 
a stranger, and, after tripping off to some distance, 
turn round again to take another peep at the intruder. 
The same habit is observable among spiders, parti- 
cularly the hunters, and those which run about 
meadows and the margins of water (Lycosa saccaia, 
&c.) Some of the mites are still more rapid in their 
movements, and we have often admired a very com- 
mon one {Gamniasus Baccanim^ Fabr.) which fre- 
quents strawberry-beds in gardens, and, as Kirby 
and Spence justly say, appears rather to glide or fly 
than to use its legs^. Its minuteness adds to the 






0, terrettris. h. tlie tame roiled np. c, oil beetle 
ioatxibaui vulgariM). d, Ngcttrihia H$rmanHi. 

* Intr. vol.ii. p.311. 





surprise produced by its movements, for it is litUe 
larger than a grain of sand, of a pale reddish colour, 
with two black dots on the back ; — and though the 
clods of garden-mould are mountains in comparison 
to its size, it gallops over them at a thousand times 
greater proportional speed than the swiftest race- 
horse*. 

As a contrast to the quick moving insects just 
mentioned, we may turn for a moment to those which 
move very slowly. The hunting spiders, though they 
can dart with the rapidity of lightning upon their 
prey, yet take care to approach a victim with such 
extraordinary caution, that the shadow upon a sun-dial 
advances not more imperceptibly t. Some of the 
beetles again move very slowly, particularly the one 
popularly called the oil-beetle (Proscarab (BU s vul~ 
Stephens), on account of the oily-looking 
fluid which oozes out from it when seized or alarmed. 
The unwieldy bulk of this animal makes it almost 
painful to look at the efforts it apparently has to 
make as it lumbers along. It always reminds us 
of those bees which, during autumn, may often be 
seen crawling lifelessly upon flowers, as if so over- 
gorged with the honey which they had extracted, that 
they are unfit to fly. How the oil-beetle becomes 
so fat, it is not easy to say, when we consider that it 
feeds upon plants, and is seen very early in spring. 
After the severe winter of 18:29-30, we found several, 
in the beginning of March, feeding on the bulbous- 
rooted buttercup (Ranunculus biilbosus), at Charl- 
ton, in Kent, and as plump as if there had not been 
a day’s frost during the winter. 

Another very common insect, popularly called the 
bloody-nosed beetle (Timarcha ienebricosa, Me- 
gerle), from its ejecting a red fluid from its mouth 
when caught, is one of the very slow walkers ; but 
? J.E. j- Insect Architecture, p. 355, 

2 r 2 






it is furnished with feet most admirably contrived for 
taking hold of the catchweed {Galium Apariue)^ 
and other trailing plants, on which it feeds. This 
contrivance consists of cushions, formed of a slightly 
concave mass of thick soft hair, which both adheres 
by its points, and also produces somewhat of a va- 
cuum, which enables it to walk as easily with its head 
perpendicularly downwards as upwards. 

The most perfect contrivance of this kind, however, 
occurs in the domestic fly {Musca domestica), and 
its congeners, as well as in several other insects. 
Few can have failed to remark, that flies walk with 
the utmost ease along the ceiling of a room, and no less 
so upon a perpendicular looking-glass ; and though 
this were turned downwards, the flies would not fall 
off, but could maintain their position undisturbed 
with their backs hanging downwards. The conjectures 
devised by naturalists, to account for this singular 
circumstance, previous to the ascertaining of the 
actual facts, are not a little amusing. “ Some sup- 
pose,’^ says the Abbe de la Pluche, “ that when the 
fly marches over any polished body, on which neither 
her claws nor her points can fasten, she sometimes 
compresses her sponge and causes it to evacuate a 
fluid, which fixes her in such a manner as prevents 
her falling without diminishing the facility of her 
progress; but it is much more probable, that the 
sponges correspond with the fleshy balls which ac- 
company the claws of dogs and cats and that they 
enable the fly to proceed with a softer pace, and con- 
tribute to the preservation of its claws, whose pointed 
extremities would soon be impaired without this 
prevention t.*’ — “ Its ability to walk on glass, says 
S. Shaw, “ proceeds partly from some little rugged- 
ness thereon, but chiefly from a tarnish, or dirty 

* See Menageries, Lib. of Entertain. Knowl. vol, i. p. 173. 
f Spect. cle la Nat. vol. i. p. 116. 






smoky substance, adhering to the surface; so that, 
though the sharp points on the sponges cannot pene- 
trate the surface of the glass, it may easily catch hold 
of the tarnish*.** This is evidently borrowed from 
Hookf. But it is singular that none of these fanciers 
ever took the trouble to ascertain the existence of 
either a gluten squeezed out by the fly, or of the 
smoky tarnish on glass. Even the shrewd Reaumur 
could not give a satisfactory explanation of the 
circumstance. 

The earliest correct notion on this curious subject 
was entertained by Derham, who, upon mentioning 
the provision made for insects that hang on smooth 
surfaces, says, “ I might here name divers flies and 
other insects, who, besides their sharp-hooked nails, 
have also skinny palms to their feet to enable them 
to stick to glass and other smooth bodies, by means 
of the pressure of the atmosphere — after the manner 
as I have seen boys carry heavy stones with only a 
wet piece of leather clapped on the top of the stonej.” 
The justly celebrated Mr. White, of Selborne, ap- 
parently without the aid of microscopical investiga- 
tion, adopted Derham’s opinion, adding the interest- 
ing illustration, that in the decline of the year, when 
the flies crowd to Avindows and become sluggish and 
torpid, they are scarcely able to lift their legs, which 
seem glued to the glass, where many actually stick 
till they die; whereas they are, during warm weather, 
so brisk and alert that they easily overcome the 
pressure of the atmosphere §. 

This singular mechanism, however, is not peculiar 
to flies, for some animals, a hundred times as large, 
can walk upon glass by the same means. St. Pierre 

? Nature Displ. vol. iii. p. 98. Lond. 1823. 
j- Micrographia, p. 170. 

J Physico-Theology, vol.ii. p. 194, note (6), 11th ed. 

§ Nat. Hist, of Selborne, vol. ii. p. 274. 

2 l3 






mentions a very small handsome lizard, about a 
finger’s length, which climbs along the walls, and 
even along glass, in pursuit of hies and other in- 
sects*;” and Sir Joseph Banks noticed another 
lizard, named the gecko (Lacerta Gecko^ Linn.) which 
could walk against gravity, and which made him 
desirous of having the subject thoroughly investigated. 
On mentioning it to Sir Everard Home, he and Mr. 
Bauer commenced a series of researches, by which 
they proved incontrovertibly, that in climbing upon 
glass, and walking along the ceilings with the back 
downwards, a vacuum is produced by a particular 
apparatus in the feet, sufficient to cause atmospheric 
pressure upon their exterior surface. 

The apparatus in the feet of the fly consists of two 
or three membranous suckers connected with the last 
joint of the foot by a narrow neck, of a funnel shape, 
immediately under the base of each claw, and move- 
able in all directions. These suckers are convex 
above and hollow below the edges, being margined 
with minute serratures, and the hollow portion 
covered with down. In order to produce the vacuum 
and the pressure, these membranes are separated and 
expanded, and when the fly is about to lift its foot, 
it brings them together, and folds them up as it were 
between the two claws. By means of a common 
microscope, these interesting movements may be 
observed when a fly is confined in a wine-glass f. 

It is a very remarkable analogy, that many flying 
insects, as well as many birds, instead of walking, 
leap or hop along somewhat in the manner of a 
kangaroo or a jerboa. But the most common and 
best known instance of a leaping insect, is the flea 
(Pulex irritans)^ whose wings are, according to 
Kirby, obsolescent. The structure of this annoying 

* Voyage to the Tsie of France, p. 73. 

f Philosoph, Trans, for 1816, p. 325. 






Feet of the blue-bottle fly, 6400 times. A, a view of the under 

side of the last joint of the toe, with the two suckers expanded, as seen 
when the fly is walking against gravity. B, side of ditto. 



^ Feet of the hihio febrilts^ C^ATR.Omagnified 6400 times. A, the under 
side of the last joint of the toe, with the three suckers expanded. B, 
side view of ditto. 



 


creature is well fitted for its mode of life — it being 
furnished with so tough a skin that it is no easy 
matter to crush it, while it is so smooth that it would 
almost glide through a pin-hole. The extraordinary 
muscular power of the thighs, again, combined with 
their elasticity, enable it to perform most astonishing 
leaps, as we have remarked in a preceding page ; 
while its comparative lightness and the toughness of 
its skin prevent it from receiving any injury, from 
whatever height it may fall. It is very doubtful, 
indeed, as it appears to us, whether it observes the 
good old proverb of looking before it leaps, for we 
have seen fleas leap from the bottom of a deep pill- 
box, where they could not possibly perceive whither 
they were leaping It may not be out of place here to 
mention, that fleas (Piilicidip?) undergo similar trans- 
formations to other insects, laying their eggs at the 
roots of the hair of animals, the feathers of birds, or 
in woollen stuffs. These, in a few days, produce a 
minute whitish grub, which, in warm weather 
changes to a perfect flea in about six weeks : as may 
be verified by whoever will take the trouble of en- 
closing some female fleas, which are always the 
largest, in glass tubes, and feeding them with flies or 
raw beef, as was done by ROsel, De Geer, and many 



Flea magnified, to allow the moseular atructoie of the leai* 
• J.B. 






others. Mr. Stephens enumerates no less than twelve 
species, from which it appears that those found on 
the dog, the pigeon, and other animals, are quite 
ditferent from the common flea, and it is probable 
these will not readily pass from their natural habit to 
infest us, as is commonly believed. 

The extraordinary power of leaping in grasshoppers 
and their congeners is matter of common observa- 
tion. The motion is ettected by means of very 
strong muscles with which the hind thighs are fur- 
nished ; and it is a similar structure which enables the 
frog-hoppers {CercojyidcB, Leach), so common on 
plants during summer, to perform leaps of extraor- 
dinary extent, in which, however, they have likewise 
the assistance of their wings. Some species make 
use of their faculty of leaping to escape from their 
enemies, as well as for the purpose of changing 
place, while others use it to spring upon their prey. 
Among the former we may mention a family 
of small insects (Poduridm, Leach), some of them 
inhabiting water or damp places, though most of the 
species are found under decaying bark or vegetable re- 
fuse. The one that is most likely to attract attention 
is a very small gregarious one, the water spring-tail 
(Podura aquatica)^ which may often be seen, during 
the summer, crowded upon the rain-water collected 
in the footsteps of cattle, the ruts of cart-wheels, or 
by the edges of small ponds, and looking precisely 
as if one had strewed about a handful of coal-ashes 
or gunpowder ; but, though at first glance they seem 
inanimated, closer inspection will show that they are 
in active motion, and particularly if they be alarmed 
— leaping about and upon one another, and on the 
water, like so many minute fire-works. Those which 
are solitary are much larger, among which we may 
mention the velvet spring-tail {Podura holosericea)^ 
of which we here give a magnified figure, to shew 





the spring in the tail, by means of which it leaps* 
jerking it downwards and outwards from its body as 
the flea does its legs. 



Leaping position of the velvet spring-tail, magnified. 

Amongst the insects which spring upon their prey 
like the cat and the lion, the most commonly observed 
is the little hunting spider {Salticusi scenicus) , whose 
zebra stripes of white and brown render it easily 
discovered on our window-frames and palings*. 
But all the spiders — even those which form webs — 
are accustomed to spring in a similar way upon what 
they have caught ; and when we are told of the 
gigantic American one {My gale avicularia), which 
even makes prey of small birds {Trochilidee), the 
necessity of extraordinary agility must be obvious; 
for these tiny birds are described to move with 
almost the velocity of light, — the eye, notwithstand- 
ing the brilliancy of their metallic colours, being 
frequently baffled in tracking their flight. The 
spider itself, however, being three inches in length, 
one and a half in breadth, and eleven inches in the 
expansion of its legs, is little less than the bird upon 
which it pounces, as may be seen from the following 
figure, taken from the splendid work of Madame 
Merian upon the insects of Surinam. 

All animals which fly are furnished with powerful 
muscles for moving their wings, in the same way as 
the limbs of those which leap are similarly provided ; 

?^See Insect Architecture, p. 355. 






My gale avicularia, rom Madame Merian. 


and we may, therefore, remark, in passing, that any 
invention for enabling men to fly must take the 
comparative weakness of our muscles into primary 
consideration. Let any one try merely to stretch out 
his arm as a hawk, or a swift fly {Fotucplla), does its 
wings, when hovering apparently motionless in the 
air, — and the quick recurrence of weariness, speedily 
increasing to pain, will atford unequivocal jjroof ot 
the apparently exhaustless vigour of their volitant 
muscles, compared with ours. It would be no very 
difficult matter to give voluminous illustrations on 
this curious subject. A French naturalist, M. C ha- 
brier, has actually written an elaborate quarto vo- 
lume, on the flight of insects*. Though Chabrier 
has unquestionable talents of the first order for re- 
search, it is unfortunate that he permits his fancy to 
travel somewhat beyond the boundaries of fact ; and 
to this, no doubt, we are to ascribe his retracting his 
* Essai 8ur le Vol d«5 Insectes, 4lo. Paris, 1801. 


 


former opinions on the fligfht of insects ; yet it might 
have been supposed, that in writing so voluminously 
on the subject, he had left no point uninvestigated. 
Nothing, however, can be more praiseworthy than 
the candour (not very common in such cases) with 
which Chabrier corrects his own mistake. 

In the two-winged flies {Dipterd) Chabrier de- 
scribes two sets of Ihuscular ribbons for putting the 
wings in play — the dorsal^ placed lengthwise, and 
used to lower the wings, and the stcrno-dorsal^ placed 
obliquely across these for raising the wings. In the 
dragon-flies {Libcllulina) , again, the disposition is 
somewhat different, the sterno-dorsal muscles being 
placed intermediate, while another set of powerful 
muscles, called pectoral^ are placed lengthwise, and 
are inserted immediately into the wings. In his first 
work, our autlior thought these muscles acted sepa- 
rately, but he now says they act in concert; and he 
is not now inclined to ascribe, as he at first did, 
so much influence to the air in the interior of the 
body, nor to the spring of the harder parts of the 
back and breast. “ Certainly,” he adds, “ the elas- 
ticity of these parts, and the re-action of the interior 
air have their use : the fluid, particularly, contained 
in their numerous vesicles, is, perhaps, very light, and 
contributes to reduce the specific gravity of the 
insect. Besides, by enveloping the interior organs, 
it appears to me intended to protect these against 
the violent motions of flight, and to contribute to 
the expansion of the chest, dilating immediately 
after being compressed by the contraction of the 
muscles in the act of raising the wings*.” 

It will appear, from this brief abstract, that the 
subject is not a little interesting ; yet it is not so easy 
to throw it into a form likely to be understood by a 
general reader. Flying with wings, however, is a 

* M. Chabrier in Ann, des Soc. Nat., Avril 1829, p. 505. 








Majfnified views of the muscular ribbons for moving the wings 
in Sj/iphus inanit. a, part of the belly. 6, the costo dorsal mus- 
cles.* V, df the isternu dorsal, e, part of the head. 

less difficult subject of investigation than flying with- 
out wings, as is practised by the gossamer spider 
(Aranea obtextrix, Bechstein), and its congeners. 
We do not allude merely to the threads carried out 
from a spider by a current of air, till it is fixed and 
forms a bridge, along which the creature can pass, 
nor to the similar lines which are lell to float freely, 
in the case of the gossamer, without attachment*. 
We refer to the power which the spider apparently 
possesses of directing its flight. Let any one endea- 
vour to catch one of the spiders which may frequently 
be seen dropping from the ceiling of a room, the 
branch of a tree, or other elevated object, and he will 
find it no easy task to lay hold of the little web spin- 
? See Ingect Architecture, pp, 339-54, 





ner, for it will not only drop perpendicularly by 
spinning a longer thread (it seldom tries to escape 
by remounting)* but it will swing itself away from the 
approaching hand, in a manner which it seems not a 
little difficult to comprehend, for it does not move a 
limb to produce an impulse in the air, as the diving 
spider {Argyroneta aquatica) does when it moves 
through the water. In instances when no escape is 
intended, when spiders, even of considerable size, 
drop from a height, we have often seen them swing 
out of the perpendicular without any apparent aid 
from the wind. It is highly ptolmble that this 
movement is effected by some internal apparatus 
analogous to the swim-bladder of fishes; but at 
present we are not aware that anything beyond con- 
jecture has been published upon the subject. We 
may state, however, that they cannot in this manner 
move far. 





Rest of Insects. 

Mr. Bright well is reported to have once observed 
an individual living specimen of Haltica concinna, 
which appeared to remain motionless on the same 
spot of a wall for three successive days * ; but though 
this is given as something unusual, we liave made 
similar observations in the case of numerous insects 
of all orders and families. The continual stationary 
appearance, however, is, in most of such cases, quite 
fallacious. To use a familiar illustration, we might 
as well think the snail stationary which we see 
every day, perhaps for weeks together, coiled up in 
the same niche of the garden-wall, as if it were glued 
to the spot, and had never moved from it a hair’s- 
breadth, — were it not that the depredations committed 
upon a contiguous lettuce, prove that it does not 
always sleep, though its excursions from its chosen 
niche, as they take place only at night, are seldom, if 
ever, observed. Like a very large portion of the 
whole insect world, snails always sleep throughout the 
day, unless roused by an accidental shower of rain, 
which tempts them to banquet on the refreshed 
herbage. Upon butterflies, and some other day insects, 
again, the occurrence of rain or cloudy weather 
usually operates like a continuance or a renewal of 
night ; and this seems to happen even in-doors, where 
the air is warm and comparatively dry. We had a 
female of the brimstone butterfly {Gonepteryx 
Rhamni) in our study, which we were desirous of 
? Kirby and Spence, Intr, vol. iv. p. 193. 




having deposit her eggs on a plant of the buckthorn 
{Rhamnus franguld)^ which we had placed in a 
garden-pot for this purpose ; and we remarked that 
she manifested no inclination to move from the same 
leaf, except for an hour or two in the forenoon, and 
when it was damp or cloudy, not even then. If 
disturbed in her repose, she would fall down as if life- 
less, and continue her sleep — (if sleep it was), without 
being awakened by the fall, till her regular period of 
animation returned. 

We have used the qualifying phrase — “ if sleep it 
was;” because the rest of insects, though correspond- 
ing, in the circumstance of remaining without motion, 
with the sleep of the larger animals, may not agree 
in any other respect, — and particularly in the 
quiescence of the senses. In the important point of 
the state of the brain, it does not appear how there 
could be any agreement in the phenomenon ; as may 
be inferred from comparing the structure of insects, 
as respects their nerves and blood-vessels, with that 
of man. 

Insects, though possessed of nerves, have nothing 
similar to our brain and spinal cord, the two sources 
of our nerves of feeling and of motion, as so beauti- 
fully explained by the recent discoveries of Mr. Charles 
Bell. Instead of this, they have a chain of what are 
called ganglia, or bundles of nervous substance, and 
from each of these bundles nerves branch out to the 
parts contiguous, — each ganglion forming the centre 
of feeling to the parts to which its nerves run ; and 
hence it is that insects will live, and (so far as we 
can perceive) feel comparatively little general pain 
and inconvenience from the loss of their limbs or 
even of their heads. Thus the tail of a wasp or a 
bee will sting long after it is severed from the body, 
and the head of a dragon-fly will eat as voraciously 
fifter it is Qut oft‘, as if it had to supply an insatiable 


 


fitomach, — phenomena easily accounted for from the 
want of a brain, and from each ganglion having it# 
own set of nerves. This may be better understood by 
looking at the central chain of ganglia in the larva of 
the day-fly before figured*. 

Insects again differ from man in having no heart 
nor circulating blood, at least so far as has hitherto 
been discovered f. Dr. Carus, of Dresden, is, indeed, 
at present endeavouring to establish a claim to the dis- 
covery of the circulation of the blood in insects ; but 
this circulation, which is most probably only partial, 
has, we think, been observed by naturalists of a former 
age. “ De Geer,” say Kirby and Spence, “ whose 
love of truth and accuracy no one will call in 
question, saw the appearance of blood-vessels in 
the leg of the larva of a caddis fly (Phryganea^ 
Linn.), as Lyonnet did in those of a flea|, and in 
the transparent thigh of the bird fly (Ornithomyia 
avicularia) he discovered a pulse like that of an 
artery §. Baker, whose only object was to record 
what he saw, speaks of the current of the blood 
being remarkably visible in the legs of some small 
bugs II; what he meant by that term is uncer- 
tain, but they could not be spiders, which he had 
just distinguished. This author has likewise seen 
a green fluid passing through the vessels of the wing^ 
of grasshoppers *![ ; and M. Chabrier is of opinion 
that insects possess the power of propelling a fluid 
into the nervures of their wings, and withdrawing it 
at pleasure, as they are elevated or depressed**: but 

? See page 139. 

f See Cuvier, Anat. Corap. vol. iv. p. 478, &c. And Marcel 
de Serres, Mem. du Mus. pour 1819. 

X Lesser, vol. ii. p. 84, note. 

§ De Geer, vol. ii. p. 505 ; vol. vi. p. 287. 

II On the Microscope, vol. i. p. 130. ^ Ibid, 

?* Sur le Vol des Inssctes. 




these two last facts must be accounted for on other 
principles, as there is clearly no circulation 

The statement recently published by one of these 
authors (Mr. Spence), respecting the alleged dis- 
covery of insect circulation by Dr. Cams, is founded 
on facts which were shown and explained to him 
by the doctor himself. “ The first insect,” says 
Mr. Spence, “ to which Dr. Cams directed my 
attention, was the larva of ephemera vulgata (or an 
allied species), in which, near to the bronchiae and 
parallel with each side of the body, was very distinctly 
visible a constant current, towards the tail, of oblong 
globules swimming in a transparent fluid, propelled 
with a regular pulsating motion ; and on cutting the 
body of the larva across near the tail, three globules 
were most plainly seen pushed out of the divided 
vessels in a distinct mass, which increased at each 
pulsation. I cannot express the pleasure which it 
gave me, to see thus clearly this ocular demonstra- 
tion of one of the most important physiological dis- 
coveries of modern times ; and my gratification was 
heightened by the next object which Dr. Cams placed 
before his microscope, viz. — a specimen of semblis 
viridis (the green lace-winged fly), in which pre- 
cisely the same phenomena, but, if possible, more 
clearly, were seen in the nervures of the wings and 
in the antennae, in both which the constant current 
of globules was most apparent ; and in the former, 
the sudden turning of these globules, at the apex of 
the wing, out of the exterior nervure into a central 
one, with which it joins and forms an acute angle, 
was equally curious and striking. On cutting off the 
end of the antennae, precisely the same emission of 
globules (which soon assume a greenish tint) took 
place as in the former case, forming a mass, which 
was increased with a sudden gush at each pulsation. 

? Introd* vol. iv. p. 86. 





Dr. Cams has observed the same phenomena in the 
wings of Semblis hilineata^ and in the elytra (wing 
cases) of Lampyris iwctiluca (the glow-worm), and 
L, Italica^ as well as in the fin-like appendages at the 
tail of the larva of Agrion puella (the damsel dragon 
fly), in which he first made the discovery, and in 
which the circulation is remarkably distinct * ” 

We apprehend, as far as we can collect from this 
description, that the alleged discovery of Dr. Carus 
does not advance a step in demonstrating a circu- 
lation in insects similar to that of other classes of 
animals ; for it is to be recollected, that the dorsal 
vessel, the only organ in insects analogous to a 
heart, although it pulsates irregularly, has no ap- 
parent arteries or veins connected with it : and 
therefore the impulsions described by De Geer, the 
current mentioned by Baker, and the phenomena 
exhibited by Carus, furnish no proof whatever of 
a general circulatory system, though they appear to 
indicate local movements in the fluids of insects, 
agreeably to the original views of Chabrier, or those 
of Swammerdam formerly quoted t. 

It may appear to some, that the preceding has but 
a very remote connexion with the subject immediately 
before us; but we shall presently show its con- 
nexion with the phenomena of insect sleep. We 
agree with Professor Blumenbach, that sleep in man 
most probably consists in a diminished or impeded 
flow of arterial blood into the brain. For example, 
if, by cold feet, a fit of passion, or a heavy supper, 
a gush of blood is forced into the brain and stag- 
nates there, the consequence will be the snoring 
death-like sleep of apoplexy; and the same will 
happen, if a blow on the head, or a fever, throws 
a quantity of blood upon the brain. Blumenbach 

? Spence in Mag. of Nat. Hist., Jan. 1830, p.49. 
t See page 343. 




had ocular demonstration of the fact contended for, 
with respect to the diminished flow of blood, in a 
man whose brain was exposed by the accidental re- 
moval of a part of the skull ; for, whenever this man 
fell asleep, the brain was seen to shrink and subside, 
but the moment he awoke a tide of blood was seen 
rushing through the vessels and swelling the brain. 
The same is also proved by the fact, that in madness 
and inflammation of the brain, when the blood flows 
rapidly, the unhappy sufferer is altogether deprived 
of sleep, unless the current of the blood is retarded 
by strong doses of opium, or by taking away a large 
quantity by the lancet. It will follow, that when the 
blood-vessels of the brain are gorged, as well as when 
they are not sufficiently full, — sleep will be equally 
produced. Force more blood into the brain than can 
find room to flow, and drowsiness, sleep, perhaps 
apoplexy, will follow; — diminish the quantity, so that 
it may lack force to keep up the current, and sleep 
will also come on. On these principles it it is that 
thinking, by bestirring the brain and driving thither a 
brisker current of blood, prevents sleep; while, 
bathing the feet in warm water, eating a moderate 
supper, or rubbing the body with a flesh-brush, by 
drawing a superabundance of blood to the feet, to the 
stomach, or to the skin, will cause sleep. Again, it 
is a general law of animated nature, for rest to suc- 
ceed fatigue, as temporary insensibility succeeds vivid 
sensations. The pain of a burn, for example, comes 
and goes alternately; and by holding out the arm 
from the body, the feeling of fatigue and pain soon 
become so insupportable, that rest cannot be dis- 
pensed with. Sleep, then, seems to be a general 
consequence of this rest after fatigue. 

Wifti regard to insects, it is evident that many of 
the above facts will not at all apply ; for as insects 
have neither a heart nor a brain, their sleep cannot 





be proximately caused by a retarded current of blood. 
We want data also for determining whether similar 
effects are produced upon the senses of insects during 
their quiescence, or apparent sleep, as take place in 
ourselves. Tlie shutting of the eye-lids, next to 
motionless rest, is one of the most obvious charac- 
teristics of sleep in man ; but in insects nothing like 
this can be observed, because they have nothing 
analogous to eye-lids. The senses of insects, indeed, 
may not sleep at all — and what renders this the more 
probable is, that in the case of gnats, crane-flies 
(Tipulide^, moths, butterflies, &c., however long they 
may have been observed to be quiescent, or sleeping, 
in the same place, they are instantly on the alert at 
the approach of danger, though no noise be made to 
alarm them *. It may serve to illustrate this state of 
wakefulness in the senses of quiescent insects, that 
the senses in man do not all sleep in the same degree 
of profundity. This very curious fact was first, we 
believe, observed by M. Cabanis, who also found 
that some of our senses and members go to sleep 
sooner than others — in proportion, it may be pre- 
sumed to their fatigue from their waking exertions, 
and to the flow of blood through them. According 
to Cabanis, then, the muscles of the legs and arms 
are the first to become drowsy, and next those that 
sustain the head, which, losing its support, falls for- 
ward ; the muscles of the back follow, and it becomes 
bent. Among the senses, the eye is the first that 
goes to sleep ; and after it the smell, taste, hearing, 
and touch, become drowsy in succession. The sense 
of touch never sleeps so profoundly as the others,— 
a fact inferred from our frequent change of position 
during sleep, which must be the consequence of 
uneasy sensations of touch. Besides this, it is well 
known that a slight tickling of the soles of the feet 
* J.R, 





will waken a person whom no noise could rouse. In 
the order of their awaking again, taste and smell are 
always last, and sight appears more difficult to awaken 
than hearing ; for a slight noise will often rouse a 
sleep-walker, who had borne an intense light on his 
unshut eyes, without seeming in the least to feel its 
influence *, 

The torpidity of insects during winter, which in 
some of its circumstances is analogous to sleep, will 
require the less to be discussed here, that we have, 
under our three former divisions of Eggs, Pupae; and 
Larvae, considered it very amply. The number of 
insects, indeed, which hybernate in the perfect state 
are comparatively few. Of the brimstone butterfly 
(Gonepteryx Rhamni), Mr. Stephens tells us the se- 
cond brood appears in autumn, “ and of the latter,*' 
he adds, “ many individuals of both sexes remain 
throughout the winter, and make their appearance on 
the first sunny day in spring. I have seen them 
sometimes so early as the middle of February t*” 
The commonly perfect state of the wings in such 
cases might, we think, lead to the contrary con- 
clusion, that the butterfly has just been evolved 
from its chrysalis. Several other species, however, 
chiefly of the genus Vanessa, do live through the 
winter in the perfect state; but this, as far as ge- 
neral observation extends, can only be affirmed 
of the female. Yet will insects bear almost incre- 
dible degrees of cold with impunity. Out of the 
multiplicity of instances of this on record we shall 
select two. In Newfoundland, Captain Buchan saw 
a lake, which in the evening was entirely still and 
frozen over, but as soon as the sun had dissolved the 
ice in the morning, it was all in a bustle of anima- 
tion, in consequence, as was discovered, of myriads 

? Cabanis, Rapports du Physique ct Moral, 
f Illustrations, vol. i. p. 9. 




of flies let loose, while many still remained “ infixed 
and frozen round.” A still stronger instance is men- 
tioned by Ellis, in which a large black mass, like 
coal or peat upon the hearth, dissolved, when thrown 
upon the fire, into a cloud of mosquitoes (^Culicidai) 

It has been remarked by most writers upon the 
torpidity of warm-blooded animals, that cold does 
not seem to be its only cause, and the same appa- 
rently holds in the case of insects. Bees, indeed, 
which remain semi-torpid during the winter, may be 
prematurely animated into activity by the occurrence 
of some days of extraordinary mildness in spring ; 
but, what is not a little wonderful and inexplicable, 
they are not roused by much milder weather when 
it occurs before Christmas, — on the same principle, 
perhaps, that a man is more easily awakened after he 
has slept six or seven hours than in the earlier part 
of the night. Immediately after the first severe frost 
in the winter of 1829-30, we dug down into the 
lower chaml>ers of a nest of the wood-ant {Formica 
rufd)j at Forest Hill, Kent, which we had thatched 
thickly with fern-leaves the preceding November, both 
to mark the spot and to protect the ants in winter. 
About two feet deep we found the little colonists all 
huddled up in contiguous separate chambers, quite 
motionless till they were exy^osed to the warm sun- 
shine, when they began to drag themselves slug- 
gishly and reluctantly along. Even upon bringing 
some of them into a warm room, they did not awaken 
into summer activity, but remained lethargic, un- 
willing to move, and refusing to eat, and continued 
in the same state of semi-torpidity till their brethren 
in the woods began to bestir themselves to repair the 
damages caused by the winter storms in the out- 
works of their encampments t- 


? Quarterly Review, April 1821, p,200, t ^ 




The younger Huber has given an interesting ac- 
count of the hybernation of ants, which differs in 
some particulars from what we have observed of the 
wood-ant ; but he speaks of ants in general. The 
subject, indeed, derives importance from the popular 
opinion, that they amass wheat and other grain as a 
winter store, having been refuted by the experiments 
of Gould and other accurate observers. “We 
have endeavoured,” says M. Huber, “ to explain 
their preservation, by supposing them to fall into a 
state of torpor at this period. They, in fact, be- 
came torpid during the intense cold, but when the 
season is not very severe, the depth of their nest 
guards them from the effects of the frost : they do 
not become torpid unless the temperature is reduced 
to the second degree of Reaumur under the freezing 
point, (27° Fahrenheit). I have occasionally seen 
them walking upon the snow, engaged in their cus- 
tomary avocations. In so reduced a temperature, 
they would be exposed to the horrors of famine, 
were they not supplied with food by the pucerons, 
who, by an admirable concurrence of circumstances, 
which we cannot attribute to chance, become torpid 
at precisely the same degree of cold as the ants, and 
recover from this state also at the same time : the 
ants, therefore, always find them when they need 
them. 

“ Those ants that do not possess the knowledge of 
the mode of assembling these insects, are, at least, 
acquainted with their retreat ; they follow them to the 
feet of the trees and the branches of the shrubs they 
before frequented, and pass at the first degree of frost 
along the hedges, following the paths which con- 
duct to these insects. They bring back to the re- 
public a small quantity of honey ; a very little sufficing 
for their support in winter. As soon as the ants 
recover from their torpid state, they venture forth to 





procure their food. The aliment contained in their 
stomach is, on their return, equally distributed to 
their companions. These juices scarcely evaporate, 
during this season, owing to the thickness of the 
honey rings investing the body. I have known ants 
preserve, during a considerable time, their interhal 
stock of provisions, when they could not impart it to 
their companions. When the cold increases in a 
gradual manner, (and this is commonly what the 
ants experience, who are screened from it by a thick 
wall of earth,) they collect and lie upon each other 
by thousands, and appear all hooked together. Is 
this done in order to provide themselves a little heat ? 
I presume this to be the case, but our thermometers 
are not sufficiently delicate to indicate if this be really 
the fact*.” 

During the frosts of 1629-30, we opened two 
nests of the yellow ant (Formica jflavd), in which we 
found the inhabitants by no means torpid or inactive, 
although not so lively as in summer; but these 
nests were in a peculiarly warm situation, being both 
in the old trunks of willows, rendered quite spong}^ 
by the dry-rot, and facing the south-west, where they 
had the benefit of every glimpse of sunshine. We 
searched with great minuteness for the eggs of the 
aphides mentioned by Huber, but without success, 
and we cannot account for their means of subsist- 
ence, unless they fed on the various insects and crus- 
taceous animals which abounded in the trees, 
(Onisciy JulidtBy &c.) They were also, in both in- 
stances, within a yard of a stream of water, to the 
vicinity of which we have observed that this species 
is partial, and it is not improbable that it may form 
an indispensable part of their subsistence. No spe- 
cies of ants, indeed, can live without drinking. In 
February of the same year, immediately after the 
* Huber on Ants, p. 239, See also this volume, pages 113-116. 




breaking up of the first fVost, we also observed num* 
bers of the small black ant {Formica fiisca) running 
about the sunny sides of hedge-banks ; and though 
we did not trace them to their winter quarters, we 
think it not improbable, from their very early appear- 
ance, that they had never been completely torpid 
The bee is popularly believed to hybernate, the seven 
winter sleepers being said to be, “the bat, the bee, the 
butterfly, the cuckoo, and the three swallows but, 
like many of the popular notions on natural history, 
this is almost wholly erroneous, for at least, out of 
these seven, the four birds certainly do not become 
torpid. With respect to the bee, again, we find some 
of the most distinguished observers at variance. 
Reaumur is an advocate for the popular opinion. 
“ It has been established,’* he says, “ with a wis- 
dom, which we cannot but admire, — with which 
everything in nature has been made and ordained, — 
that during the greater part of the time in which the 
country furnishes nothing to bees, they have no 
longer need to eat. The cold which arrests the ve- 
getation of plants — which deprives our fields and 
meadows of their flowers — throws the bees into a 
state in which nourishment ceases to be necessary to 
them : it keeps them in a sort of torpidity, in which 
no transpiration from them takes place, or at least 
during which the quantity of what transpires is so 
inconsiderable, that it cannot be restored by aliment 
without their lives being endangered. In winter, 
while it freezes, we may observe without fear the in- 
terior of hives that are not of glass ; for we may lay 
them on their sides, and even turn them bottom 
upwards, without putting any bee into motion. We 
see the bees crowded and closely pressed one against 
the other ; little space then suffices for them t-’’ — 
Again, when mentioning the custom of putting bee- 
• J.K. t Mem.v.p.667. 





hives during the winter into out-houses and cellars, 
he says, ‘‘that in such situations, the air, though 
more temperate than out of doors, during the greater 
part of the winter, is yet sufficiently cold to keep the 
bees in that species of torpidity which does away 
with the necessity of their eating He also says, 
positively, that the milder the weather, the more risk 
there is of the bees consuming their honey before the 
spring, and dying of hunger ; confirming his posi- 
tion by an account of a striking experiment, in 
which .a hive that he transferred during winter into 
his study, where the temperature was usually, in the 
day, 10° or 12° of Rt^aumur’s thermometer above 
freezing, or 59° Fahrenheit, though the bees were pro- 
vided with a plentiful supply of honey, that if they 
had been in a garden would have served past the 
end of April, had consumed nearly their whole stock 
before the end of February t. 

But the elder Huber records some observations 
directly opposed to these, affirming unequivocally, 
that, so far from being torpid in \^dnter, the heat in a 
well peopled hive is as high as 25° Rt^aumur, or 86° 
Fahrenheit, even when the thermometer in the open 
air is several degrees below zero, the heat thus ob- 
served being generated in the hive by their clustering 
together, and keeping themselves in motion ; and 
even in the middle of winter they may be heard 
buzzing as they always do when ventilating the 
hive, — a process which appears to have been origi- 
nally discovered by Huber, and of which, on account 
of its connexion with the disputed question before us, 
we shall give his own description : 

“ During fine weather,” (in summer), says he, “ a 
certain number of bees always appear before the en- 
trance of the hive occupied in vibrating their wings, 
but still more are found to be engaged in ventilating 
* Mem. voL v. p. 682. f Ib. vol. v. p. 668. 




the interior. The ordinary place of ventilation is on 
the board ; those outside of the entrance have their 
heads towards it ; those within have them in the 
opposite direction. 

‘‘ We may affirm that they arrange themselves re- 
gularly to ventilate more at ease, thus forming files, 
which terminate at the entrance, and sometimes dis- 
posed like ; so many diverging rays. This order is 
not uniform, but is probably owing to the necessity 
for the ventilating bees ^ving way to those going 
and coming, whose rapid course compels them to 
range themselves in a file, to avoid being hurt or 
overthrown every instant. 

“ Sometimes above twenty bees ventilate at the 
bottom of a hive, at other times their number is 
more circumscribed, and their employment of various 
duration. We have seen them engaged in it during 
twenty-five minutes, only taking breath, as it were, 
by the shortest interruption of the vibration. On 
ceasing, they are succeeded by others, so that there 
is never any intermission of the buzzing of a popu- 
lous hive. 

“ If under the necessity of ventilating during 
winter, being then united near the centre of the mass 
towards the top of their dwelling, doubtless the bees 
perform this important function among vacuities of 
the irregular combs, where there is room for their 
wings to expand, as at least half an inch is requisite 
for them to play freely. 

“ The ventilation of the bees, or the buzzing 
which denotes it, seems to me more active during 
winter than at any other time. It was easy to prove 
that this operation established a current of air ; for 
anemometers of light paper or cotton, hung by a 
thread, were impelled towards the entrance and re- 
pelled from it with equal rapidity. The action on 
them never was entirely interrupted, and its force 





appeared proportional to the number of bees &iming 
themselves. 

If some cultivators of bees shut up the entrance 
of their hives in winter without prejudice to the bees, 
it must be considered that the air will penetrate 
through the straw composing them. 1 confided an 
experiment on this to M. Burnens, then at a dis- 
tance from me. Having closed down a very popu* 
Ions straw hive fast on its board, he found that a 
piece of the finest paper, suspended by a hair before 
the entrance, oscillated above an inch off the perpen- 
dicular line. He poured liquid honey through an 
opening in the top, when a buzzing soon began, and 
a tumult increasing within, several bees departed. 
The oscillations now became stronger and more fre- 
quent. His experiments were made at three o’clock, 
the sun shining and the thermometer in the shade 
standing at 44®*.” 

Swammerdam also seems to indicate that bees 
remain active during the winter, and in order to 
enable them to bear its inclemency, they both fortify 
their hive and provide a store of honey. “ The order,” 
he says, “ in which bees that live in the winter 
months conduct themselves is this ; they first open 
the cells and eat the honey deposited in the lowest 
part of the hive, ascending by degrees to the upper 
parts. This they do in order to preserve a mutual 
warmth between them ; and the female deposits her 
eggs in the little cells as they are emptied. There- 
fore I discovered both stock and nymphs about the 
beginning of March. Let no one be surprised at 
this, since towards the beginning of August I have 
seen some thousand eggs enclosed in the ovary of a 
female bee ; so that it is natural for the bees at any 
time of the year to lay their eggs and increase their 
family t**’ 

Huber on Bees, p. 295. f Book of Nature, i. 160. 




John Hunter, whose authority stands as high as 
any on record, found a hive to grow lighter in a cold 
than in a warm week of winter, and that a hive, from 
November 10th till February 9th, lost more than 
four pounds in weight* , a loss which could not well 
be ascribed to evaporation. 

These discrepancies among naturalists so distin- 
guished as both shrewd and faithful observers, forbid 
us, we think, to come to any decided conclusion on the 
subject, till further researches and experiments have 
been made. It is not improbable, however, that the 
truth lies in the middle between the two extremes, — 
for it is quite accordant with what we know both of 
insects and other animals, that a high degree of cold 
should render them torpid, while they may continue 
active if there should be a certain degree of warmth. 
The following observations by the ingenious Mr. 
Gough, of Manchester, form an interesting illustra- 
tion of this curious subject with respect to another 
insect 

“ Those,” says he, “ who have attended to the 
manners of the hearth cricket {Acheta domesticd) 
know that it passes the hottest part of the summer 
in sunny situations, concealed in the crevices of walls 
and heaps of rubbish. It quits its summer abode 
about the end of August, and fixes its residence by 
the fireside of kitchens or cottages, where it mul- 
tiplies its species, and is as merry at Christmas as 
other insects in the dog-days. Thus do the comforts 
of a warm hearth afford the cricket a safe refuge, 
not from death, but from temporary torpidity, which 
it can support for a long time, when deprived by 
accident of artificial warmth. — I came to the know- 
ledge of this fact,” continues Mr. Gough, “ by plant- 
ing a colony of these insects in a kitchen, where a 
constant fire was kept through the summer, but 
* Phil. TransJor 1790, p. 161. 





which is discontinued from November tillJune,with 
the exception of a day once in six or eight weeks. The 
crickets were brought from a distance, and let go in 
this room, in the beginning of September, 1806 ; 
here they increased considerably in the course of two 
months, but were not heard or seen after the fire was 
removed. Their disappearance led me to conclude 
that the cold had killed them ; but in this 1 was 
mistaken ; for a brisk fire being kept up for a whole 
day in the winter, the warmth of it invited my colony 
from their hiding-place, but not before the evening : 
after which they continued to skip about and chirp 
the greater part of the following day, when they 
again disappeared ; being compelled, by the return- 
ing cold, to take refuge in their former retreats. 
They left the chimney corner on the 25th of May, 
1807,. after a fit of very hot weather, and revisited 
their wiixter residence on the 31st of August. Here 
they spent the summer merely, and lie torpid at 
present (January 1808) in the crevices of the chim- 
ney, with the exception of those days on which they 
are recalled to a temporary existence by the comforts 
of a fire 

* Reeve, Essay on the Torpidity of Animals, p. 84. 



[The subject of Insects will be completed in a Third 
Volume, which will comprise many Miscellaneous 
Facts that were not capable of being classed under 
the heads of “ Insect Architecture,’’ or “ Insect 
Transformations with directions for the collection 
and preservation of Insects for purposes of study ; 
and a popular account of the various Systems of 
Classification.] 






Page 

Comparative fignres of a bee and a syrphus 

Cell of a queen of the Termites bellicosit broken open in front  

Ihc labourers surrounding the queen, and carrying off the eggs 

Groups of eggs of the rose-leaf roller on a pane of glass 

Plants of sphofrohulus, natural size .

Ditto, magnihed view .. 

 Ditto, sectional view, with the seed just previous (o projection .

 Ditto, with the seed in the act of projection 

 Ditto, immediately after projection 

 Microscopic views of apple and pear mould . 

. Kggs of a butterfly and of a moth, magnified 

. Magnified egg of the angle-shades moth 

 Sea egg, natural size .. 

 Egg of the meadow brown butterfly, magnified  

 Egg of the briinstone moth, magnified 

 Dung-fiy, with its eggs magnified, and mode of deposition 

 Lace-winged fly, and position of its eggs on a twig of lilac 

 Ichneumon fly, with its ovipositor, magnified 

. Ichneamon flies ovipositing

. Generation of ichneumons, seven figures

 Magnified view of a parasite fly (^Evania apendigaster) 

 'Bee pAraaite (^Stglops Melittof) 

 Leaf-mining maggots and fly, four figures  

 Gnats forming their egg-boats 

 Magnified view of the boat of gnats’ eggs  

Female gypsey moths, and modes of depositing their eggs, four 

figures 

Females of the brown and gold-tailed moths, two figures .

 Tweezers of the brown and gold tailed moths, magnified, two 

figures 

 Spiral groups of eggs of an unknown moth .

 Eggs of the lackey moth wound spirally round a twig of hawthorn, 

natural size and magnified, two figures 

 Eggs of the coccus, covered with down, and with the bodies of the 

mothers 

 Magnified cochenille insects, male and female, two figures

 Eggs of the hawthorn coccus, covered by the body of the dead 

mother 

 Ditto, one of these magnified

 Section of ditto, showing the eggs within 

 Suspended spiders’ nests, three figures  

 VapourcT moth, male and female, and deposition of eggs, three figures
 Drum of the ear, shewing that there is no passage through it to 

the brain 

38. Chequered blow fly 






Abdomen of dittOy opened and magnified, shewing the coil of 

young larvn ib. 

Coil of larva of ditto, partly unwound ib. 

 Large grey blow-fly, with the abdomen opened, shewing the young 

maggots

 Breathing apparatus of the maggot of a large grey blow-fly . ib. 

 Spider flies, two figures 

Generation of a water-mite, four figures 

 Hatching of the egg of the garden spider, four figures 

 Egg of the privet hawk moth, magnified, shewing the inclosed 

embryo 125 

 Caterpillar of ditto, when grown 

 Construction of eggs to facilitate the escape of the larvae, three 

figures 

. Supposed animal and vegetable metamorphoses  

 Egg of the large cabbage butterfly 

 Embryo butterflies as they appear in the bodies of caterpillars, 

two figures

 Female of the perfect cabbage butterfly .... ib. 

 Magnified view of a section of the bud of a laburnum . 

 Section of a bean-seed ib. 

 Seed-leaves, root, and first true leaf of the beech • • . ib. 

 Dissection of the water grub of a May-fly . 

 Caterpillars of the Clifden nonpareil feeding on the grey poplar  

Ditto, in a more advanced stage of growth  

 Wnlking-leaf insect, magnified 

 Transformations of the brimstone moth  

. Caterpillars of the swallow-tailed moth 

 A two- winged fly (Foluceilapiumata)  

 Transformations of the puss moth  

 Lobster caterpillar 

Aquatic pubs of gnats in a glass vessel of water 

Larv» of the common gnat, floating in water, two figures 

 Buoy-like structure in the tail of a water-grub of a two-winged fly 

 Telescopic-tailed water larvae, three figures

WAter-worms, two figures 

 Grub of the dragon-fly, and various parts of its body magnified, 

five figures 

 Mask of the dragon-fly grub, four figures 

 Moulting of caterpillars, and magnified views of parts, ten figures 

 Exuvia and pulmonary vessels of the rhinoceros beetle 

 Goat moth caterpillar escaping from a drinking-glass . 

 Magnified view of the dorsal muscles of the upper half of the oossus

 Caterpillar of cossus escaping from under a loaded glass 

 Methods used by spiders and caterpillars for ascending their 

threads

 Caterpillar of the tiger-moth, two figures

 Grub of the museum beetle, natural size and magnified, two figures ib. 

. Tail of ditto, magnified 

 Hairs of ditto, magnified, two figures . 

 Thorny hairs of caterpillars, three figures 

. Green Wtoise beetle {Cam'da 

 Grub of ditto, magnified, to shew its anal forks .. 

 Grub of ditto, with its canopy of excrements  

Spit frog-hopper, and froth covering the grub of the same, two 

figures 

 Caterpillar of the drinker moth, two figures  

 Caterpillar of the angle-shades moth ib. 






 Moth of ditto ih. 

Viscera of the cosaust two figures

Caterpillar of KanesM itrticee, magnified .... 

 Intestines of ditto ib. 

Intestinal canals of the caterpillar, pupae, and butterfijr, five figures  

 Buff-tip caterpillar, and moth of ditto, two figures .

 Encampment of the caterpillar of the small ermine on the Siberian 

crab .

 Transformations of the gamma moth, five figures 

. Saw-fly of the gooseberry, and caterpillars, four figures 

 Caterpillar of the saw-fly {Nematus Caprca) on the osier  

 Caterpillar of the saw-fly (Selandria mni) on the alder . 

 Transformations of the grain moth, seven figures .  

 Transformations of the honeycomb moth, seven figures . 

 Transformations of the cockchafer, nine figures . 

. Wire-worm and click beetle 

 Zaltrus gibbus 

. Melolont/ui rujicornia ib. 
. Corn weevil 
 Meal-worm, and the beetle produced from it . 

 Transformations of the tabby moth, six figures . 

Intestinal worms, three figures

 Churchyard beetle, in the grub and perfect state, four figures 

. Nut and apple-tree beetles, eight figures 

. Bark mined in rays by beetle grubs 

 Locust 

 Ovipositor and eggs of the crane-fly 

Crane fly ovipositing, and the larva beneath in the earth feeding 

upon grass roots 

. Germination of a grain of wheat 

 Transformation of the wheat-fly, three figures 

 The Hessian fly . 

 The Markwick fly 

 Transformations of the cheese-hopper, seven figures 
 Transformations of Bibio hortulanus^ six figures 
. Transformations of the lady-bird, six figures 
 Transformations of the lace-winged fly and syrphus, five figures 
 Cateipillar of Vanessa Antiopay three figures 
 Suspended caterpillar of Vanessa Antiopa splitting its skin for 

the evolution of the chrysalis, four figures .
. Chrysalides of Vanessa urticee suspended, w'ith the anal hooks 

magnified, and old skin fallen off, four figures .
 Black-veined white butterfly, caterpillar, and chrysalis, three 

figures 

Caterpillar and chrysalis of swallow- tailed butterfly, three- 

figures 

 Pupae of blow-fly and syrphus, four figures 

 Transformations of the gnat (Corct/tra pfumtcomis), six figures

 Pupa of chameleon fly, three figures  

 Pupa of lappit moth, three figures 

Chrysalis of Gonepteryx li/tamni 

 Tapa of Laria fascelina ? 

 F uyifi of Sphinx Ligustri . 

 Spiracles of pupae, two figures

 Pupae of the gnat and Tipula . four figures

 Transformations of CV«ronoi»«sjj/ttnwm, four figures 

. Case fly, with the pupa, and the grate-works of the opening of 

the latter, four fibres


 

.

Fapm o( Coitnt wnd JEgfiria 

TlieOy and ^pa of the ant-lion, foai' figures 
Transformation of the dragon-fly, five figures

Blow-fly, magnified, two fignre

Wings of insects, shewing the nervnres, six figures 

Twenty. plume moth, two figures 345 

'^i^plume moth ib. 

Specimens of deformed batterflies and moth, three figures 
Red sptder, and the head, magnified, two figures  

Head of the garden spider magnified

PAalangium, 

Hydrometra stagnorum^ magnified. 

Floiaria vagahunda, magnified 

iVetdes magnified 

Hydrometra^ta^nortim, natural size 

J^dracAaajjf&o^rajsAtc'O, magnified, two figures 

Velia rivulorum ib. 

Jtt/ia terrestns, two figures 

Oil-beetle

Nycterihia Hermanni  

Feet of the fly, greatly magnified, four figures 

Flea, magnified 

Velvet spring-tail, magnified 

American snider (Mygale avwularia) destroying a bird 

Muscular ribbons for moving the wings in JSyi'phus inanis, mag- 
nified, two figures 

Syrphus  






as the emperor moth sat one evening in may fanned by numberless wings in the moons silver ray  while around him the zephyrs breathed sweetest perfume  thus he spoke to his dwarf with the ragged white plume that vain butterflys ball i hear was most splendid and as the world says very fully attended though she never asked us but assigned as a cause we were all much too heavy to gallope and waltz  what impertinence this want of grace to ascribe to the lord of the whole lepidopterous tribe i tooll give a ball and such folks to chastise  ill not be at home to these pert butterflies bid the empress come hither and well talk about  what arrangements to make for a capital rout the empress obeyed her lords summons with speed  and proceeded her visiting tablets to read  that those of her subjects whose homage was booked in that coveted record might not be oerlooked then the bufftip began to write each moth a card  having one for herself just by way of reward first ask says the emperor the glory of kent  on having much beauty my mind is quite bent the belle too of brixton the marvel du jour  and the peachblossom moth youll invite i am sure the sphinx too shall come who makes riddles so well and the gipsey be ready our fortunes to tell  mother shipton shall chaprone the lovely black i and those awkward greek girls lambda gamma and chi hebrew character too who for routs has a passion  and ill ask mrs gothic though shes out of fashion  for i love my old friends and had rather that they  should partake of our feast than the idle and gay  who flutter about without object or reason  just live for an hour and last but a season  how little alas do great moths bear in mind that their tenure of life is of just the same kind  youre right said the empress and truly twere shabby  texclude from our party poor old mrs tabby  and the rustics ill ask though not one has a gown  in which to appear save of black grey or brown  and some of them go too so feathered and flounced  that the coxcomb called prominent on them pronounced  a sentence of censure quite just but so tart  that i felt when i heard it quite cut to the heart  but now to proceed sire the leopard i vote  be razed from our list with that ugly old goat  who in youth made such terrible use of his jaws  that i dread i confess een the sight of his claws  and as to his muscles tis said that when counted  to four thousand and just fortyone they amounted  of musk too im told he sheds such perfume  that wherever he goes he fills the whole room  exclude him we will with the old dromedary  the elephant cunning and fox too so wary  that though i dont know it for certain im told  they cheat at ecarté like hermes of old  the ghost and deaths head and that terrible host  would but scare all the guestshere the emperor lost  for a moment his patience and cried to his spouse  if thus you proceed maam my anger youll rouse  like th egyptians of old ill have at my feast  a figure of death or his crossbones at least  to remind all our guests of the limited span  that to moths is allotted as well as to man  and how een in the midst of enjoyments gay hour  we are still in deaths stern and inflexible power  so let them have cards and ill go and prepare  for receiving our friends the best possible fare  the monarch then went with the eyed hawk his scout  to search for a spot fit for giving his rout  a green ring he found the work of a fairy  and thinking it looked both commodious and airy  he called to him brimstone to measure the ground  for another geometra could not be found  of this workman he knew the correctness full well  what he wrought was as nice as if done by a spell  the spot was judged proper and erected in haste  were some well fashioned rooms which displayed his good taste  carpet moths were appointed to stencil the floor  the clothes moths with gossamer covered the door  mahogany and wainscot were neither deficient  in offering their aid which proved most efficient  while veneers both rosy and yellow were able  timprove by their help the decayed supper table  for the crockery china mark promised to strive  and galleria offered to steal from a hive  profusion of honey pinguinalis brought butter  and with wax cereana came all in a flutter  these presents the emperor gladly accepted  save gallerias theft which with scorn was rejected  so little do moths of great minds patronise  the base who by fraud or extortion would rise  in the mean time the empress her swifts had sent out  to deliver the cards for this elegant rout  puss sent an excuse with the kitten engaged  and the eggar poor lady was highly enraged  that her numerous offspring requiring her care  prevented her joining a party so rare  the burnets brown pinioned the dingy brocades  the black raven feather and sweet angle shades  had promised that day with the tussock to dine  a lady of fashion whose hour was nine  but when they received their dread sovereigns command  they yielded to customs imperious demand  for moths with us mortals in this do agree  that all parties must bow to a monarchs decree  lady lappet being ill the poplar lutestring  the two misses nonpareil promised to bring  and the spectacle moth too near sighted to go  sent his ward the bright eye with the flame furbelow  whose young lover the beautiful brave unicorn  had been shot in a duel with the red striped hawthorn  not quite fit to appear the gallant swallow tail  at the doctors with anger continued to rail  he having been lamed by the awkward bulrush  to the serious alarm of the fair maidens blush  the day now arrived and at nine of the night  the glowworm being hired the highways to light  the guests gan to assemble and each was announced  by the herald who loudly their names all pronounced  the erminea lady of noble degree  introduced a long train of her large family  some in muslin some satin were chastely arrayed  while the emeraldthe pearl and the mocha  displayed  their jewels so costly that poor burnished brass  unnoticed was suffered the evening to pass  from the banks of the niger the blackamoor brought  a fat moorwho presented a tyger just caught  an old gentlewomanhad promised to bring  a musical miss who divinely could sing  but whose fair head no larger than that of a dot  was filled with the thought of a true lovers knot  so she hemd and she had then unblushingly told  how she caught as she came a most violent cold  and felt such oppression and pain in her throat  that she scarcely dared venture to utter a note  and thus with most misses of human creation  how often their colds are but mere affectation  the dancing began and soft music was heard  provided twas said by the sweet humming bird  old colonel gold spangle his dancing days past  volunteered with good humour the dances to cast  to the forward miss portland captain christian he brought  who aided by mars the young lady had caught  for moths like their betters as i have been told  are mightily taken with scarlet and gold  the foresters danced arrayed all in green  with the clear wingswhose beauty gave life to the scene  the mouse quite enamoured entreated in vain  the hand of the lovely pease blossom to gain  and the satellite though he till now had sat still  made up to the seraph to dance a quadrille  the quakers who neer had been seen at a ball  with the coronets galloped around the great hall  and the sad mourning widow her weeds put away  to waltz with the lustrous japan now quite gay  while the magpie obtained universal applause  by fluttering a hornpipe upon his hind claws  the vapourer came not but he was no loss  for wherever he went he was stupid and cross  and his wife an old dowdy bereft of all wings  was unfit to appear as th associate of kings  the daggercame armed and looked all around  but his charmer miss snout was no where to be found  for she had not been asked and the figure of eight  with his cousin the sprawler joined the party so late  that morn was forth peeping and the dancing had done  when spring usher announced the young beautiful nun  the gnomana now indexed the hour of four  the guests were assembled around the great door  which the lacqueys threw open and each in his rank  found a seat for himself and they all ate and drank  with a relish that would not disgrace the guildhall  to compare for a moment such great things with small  where londons lord mayor and his aldermen deign  to feast upon turtle and tipple champagne  old drinker the butler of wine served the best  and a footman was placed at the chair of each guest  in orange in yellow or black coats dressed out  for their liveries twas said were all made for the rout  the emperor began mirth and glee to inspire  when a loud cry was heard of the chimneys on fire  all started in fear from the table to learn  if the house was in flames or likely to burn  each snatched up a candle so left the room dark  and the moment was seized by the chamomile shark  to plunder the table the yorkshire magpie  strove also with his share of booty to fly  but was stopped by the lacqueys who then in a trice  demolished themselves every thing that was nice midst this glorious confusion a mischievous pug  contrived of the claret to empty each jug  but not unperceived by young miss exclamation  who by her loud cries caused immense consternation  meanwhile came the sweep with the chimney sweeps boy  and two other assistants who ran to employ  every means they could think of to put out the flame  in which they succeeded and found that the blame  belonged to the housewifewho had thrown in the fire  some grease which occasioned the accident dire  the guests in a panic had now left alone  the emperor and empress their ills to bemoan  said the empress my dear let us never more try  with the butterflies party so vainly to vie  for what with the heat the fatigue and the fright  i never before passed so trying a night  i would
 not again undergo the vexation  of such a soirée for the wealth of a nation  with you i agree the sage emperor replied  who deemed it a lesson to cure them of pride  and i trust that the thread of our lives will spin out  ere we ever again attempt such a rout alas we must own we were never designed  to flit in the sunshine or soar on the wind  natures changeless decree has allotted its share  to each beast of the field to each bird of the air to each reptile that creeps to each insect that flies and who dares to rebel against nature but dies




We must tell our little readers something about this number of their
Library. It was sent to us by a very kind old uncle of ours, who, when
we were young, was so much from home, visiting various places in the
world, that we do not remember seeing him very often at that period. At
last, the old man, finding that he could not bear fatigue as he had done
when young, determined to come home; and we had heard so much about him
that we were quite anxious to see him. He came to our house one evening,
and appeared rather odd to us; but he was so good-natured, and told us
so many curious things, that we soon forgot his odd appearance.

The old gentleman brought home with him a very large number of books,
and a great many strange things which he had gathered in his travels,
such as stones, and dried insects, and leaves, and flowers, and stuffed
birds, and animals. He did not stay with us long, but went to the
village where he was born, and built a small house to which he carried
all his books and curiosities, and said that he should spend the rest of
his days there.

We sometimes pay him a visit. The last time we were there, we found him
talking to several children around him. In the beginning of the book
there is a picture of the old gentleman. After you have looked at it,
you may read the letter which he sent us, and learn how he came to write
this book.

  Your friends,
            The Publishers.




UNCLE PHILIP'S LETTER.


  My dear Nephews,

I was very much pleased to receive the numbers of your Library for
Boys and Girls which you sent to me. You know I am now an old man,
and have travelled a great deal, and seen a great many strange things
in the course of my life. I am too old to travel any more, and so I
am quietly living in the cottage I built by the side of that pleasant
and shady little stream where I played when I was a boy. I read my
books, and especially that best of all of them, my Bible; and so am
patiently waiting till my Heavenly Father shall call me to take my last
journey; when I hope, for the sake of the blessed Saviour, to go to Him.
Sometimes I walk out into the village, and meet the children and have
a long talk with them. They all know me; and very often, some of them
will come to my house, and ask me to tell them about things which I have
seen in my travels or read of in books: and so I spend many happy hours
with the little creatures; for you know how much I love children. When
I had read the books you sent to me, I lent them to the children, who
were delighted; and I thought that if I should sometimes write down what
we here talked about, it might please the little boys and girls for whom
you print your books, and perhaps they might learn something from our
conversations which would be useful: and so I determined to send them to
you, from time to time, to print, if you pleased.

If you think fit to print what I send, just tell your little readers who
I am; an aged and quiet old man, who is very fond of little boys and
girls, and wishes them to be wise and good here, and happy hereafter,
and that I am your

                                          Uncle Philip.
  _Newtown, Feb_. 1833.

P.S. If you print what I send now, please to print the Preface to
Parents, which I also send; in order that they may, by reading it,
see what sort of a book Uncle Philip has been making for their dear
children, and may be satisfied that it will not harm them to read it.




PREFACE TO PARENTS.


The author of the following book avails himself of the opportunity
afforded by its publication, to address a word to those who sustain the
delightful and responsible relation of parents.

To such of that class as may honour by a perusal this humble attempt
to interest and instruct their offspring, the author need not say that
the subject of his book possesses for himself peculiar attractions: it
will readily be perceived that he has found a charm in the pursuits of
the naturalist. The votary of a favourite science would anticipate too
much, should he expect every one to partake of the enthusiasm which is
apt to stimulate him; it is wisely and kindly ordered that we shall
not all be enthusiasts in the same direction. The author, however,
still ventures to hope, that in his subject there is enough to attract,
though it may fail to fascinate. He hopes, too, that it will be found
not attractive merely, but profitable also to his young countrymen.
There are many reasons on which to found such a hope. If to entertain
reverence for our Maker, to admire and adore his wisdom and goodness
in the illustrations of nature, thankfully to acknowledge and duly to
improve the superiority which mind confers, be exercises in which a wise
parent would desire to train a child,--the study of natural science
is admirably adapted to the attainment of these objects. Again, if it
be desirable to encourage habits of patient observation, accuracy of
investigation, and soundness of thought; let the volume of nature be
opened before the youthful mind. If to learn _things_ be better than
to learn _words_, it is important to place things before the growing
intellects of the young. Let it not be supposed that to present matters
of science intelligibly to the minds of children is a hopeless task. It
requires not learning or maturity of understanding to perceive a _fact_;
it needs only the ordinary senses which God has bestowed alike upon
children and their parents. Natural science is emphatically the science
of _facts_; built upon any other foundation it becomes conjecture
merely: and he knows but little of the mind of a child who is not aware
of the facility with which a fact is impressed upon it. The secret of
instructing the young will be found to consist more in the mode of
communication than in the nature of the subject.

As to the style of this work a word may be said; not, of course, for
the purpose of disarming criticism (for truly the writer has never
supposed his trifle worth the critic's labour or notice), but simply to
remark, that the object has been to write for the minds of _children_;
if the book be intelligible to them, the utmost ambition of Uncle Philip
will be attained. Truth and plainness were all he sought. The first he
believes he has attained; and to determine his success in attempting
the last, he turns from the parents, and looks for the decision of the
question to the suffrages of the children. He would rather hear the
expression of satisfaction from the lips of one intelligent little
reader, than receive the words of approbation from many who are elders;
the first is testimony derived from experience, the last is but opinion.
Children always know better than any one else does what books they
understand.

In conclusion, the author owes it to himself to say to the parents
of his young countrymen, and to the patrons of the "Boy's and Girl's
Library," that what he has written will be found on the side of religion
and morals. So far as these important points are concerned, the writer
is not ashamed to avow himself a Christian; nor yet does he mean to make
it the subject of boasting. In his simple view, Christianity is a very
quiet and gentle thing, which eschews strife, and promotes practical
goodness; and truly can he say, that he has indulged in some of his
happiest and, as he trusts, his holiest musings when, in the solitary
pursuit of his favourite science,--to use the language of good old
Izaak Walton, that simple-hearted lover of God, and all his works,--"he
has looked upon the wonders of nature with admiration, or found some
harmless insect to content him, and pass away a little time, without
offence to God, or injury to man."






                                                                 
  About a Fly that can work with a Saw and a Rasp, like the Carpenter 


  About Grasshoppers and Bees that bore Holes with a Gimlet          


  About Animals that are Tailors                                    

 
  About the first Paper in the World made by Wasps                  


  A Story about Tom Smith, and of Bees with Brushes and Baskets, and
  of a Bird with a Chisel, and a Gnat with a Lancet                  

  About Animals that can do Mason's Work                             


  About Animals that throw Dirt with a Spade; and about an Animal
  with a Hook; and about one that is a Wire-drawer                   


  About a Door, with a Hinge and Spring to it, made by a Spider; and
  the Difference between God's Work and Man's                        

  A Story about a Philosopher and his Kite; and about Ants that
  have Awls, and build Cities, and Stairs, and Bridges, and many
  other Things                                                      

  
  More about the white Ants                                        

 
  About some other Ants that are very good Masons, and build Walls
  and Ceilings; and a Story about a very sensible Ant which seemed
  to think a little                                                

  About Ants that go to War, and fight Battles; and about some that
  are Thieves, and have Slaves                                     

 
  A Voyage; and an Animal that makes itself into a Ship; and of an
  Insect that builds a Boat, and floats about in a Canoe; and of
  another that pumps Water, and wears a Mask; and of a Spider that
  builds a Raft, and floats upon it                                 

  About an Insect with Tweezers, and another with Pincers; and how
  a Fly's Foot is made, so as to stick to the Wall                 

  How Hats are made; and about Animals that can make Felt
  like the Hatter                                                   


  About Birds that are Weavers, and the Politician Bird; a
  Story about some Philosophers; and what may be learned
  from these Conversations                                        




NATURAL HISTORY.






     _Uncle Philip tells the Children about a Fly that can work
     with a Saw and a Rasp, like the Carpenter._


"Well, boys, this is a beautiful day. The sun is shining brightly, and
the birds are singing, and the insects are flying about, and the grass
is green, and every thing appears pleasant, and you feel happy too, and
have come, I suppose, to see old Uncle Philip."

"Yes, Uncle Philip, we are tired of playing now, and so we have come to
ask you to talk with us, and tell us about some of the curious things
you know."

"Well, boys, I will tell you about some very strange things. I will talk
to you about animals that know how to work with tools like a man."

"Work with tools, Uncle Philip! That is strange; but we know it is so,
if you say so; because you will not tell us any stories but true ones.
But where do they get the tools?"

"Ah, boys, 'the hand that made them is _divine_!' They get them where we
get all that is useful and good,--from God. The Bible says that He '_is
wise in heart, and wonderful in working_;' and he has made many a poor
little insect, and given it tools to work with for its comfort, as good
and perfect as any that man can make. Yes, these poor little creatures
had tools long before man had. God cares for the insects, boys, as well
as for us."

"But, Uncle Philip, what sort of tools do you mean? Tell us about them."

"Very well, I will; do you think of some kind of tools that men use:
think of the carpenter and his tools, and let us see if we cannot find
some of them among the insects."

"Why, the carpenter has a saw. Is there any saw among these little
fellows?"

"Yes indeed, there is; and a capital saw it is. Now listen, and I will
tell you all about it. There is a kind of fly called the _saw-fly_; it
has four wings, and commonly its body is yellow, and its head is black;
but the most curious part of it is the saw. The young ones feed upon the
leaves of rose-bushes, and gooseberries, and raspberries, and currants,
and several other kinds of bushes; and the old ones always lay their
eggs on the branches of these bushes, so that the young ones may have
something to eat as soon as they come out. It uses its saw to make a
place in the branch to put its egg in."

"Uncle Philip, what is the saw made of?"

"It is made of something like horn, and is fixed very nicely in a case;
it resembles what the cabinet-makers call a _tenon-saw_ more than it
does the carpenter's common saw. The tenon-saw is made of a thin plate
of steel, and has a stiff brass back, to keep it from bending. The brass
back has a groove in it, and the saw is put in that groove, and then it
is fastened to it. But the fly's saw is fixed in another way: there is
a back to it too, but that back is not fastened to the saw. The groove
is in the saw, and there is a ridge all along the back-piece, which
just fits in the groove, and so the saw slides backwards and forwards,
and the ridge always keeps it in its place. Besides all this, boys, the
fly is better off than the cabinet-maker, for he uses only one saw at
a time; but our little workman has two exactly alike, and they are so
fixed that the creature first pushes out one, and when it is drawing
that back, pushes out the other; so that it is all the time cutting, and
does double work. I think the fly's saw is the best, too, for another
reason. The saws of the carpenter and cabinet-maker have their teeth
bent; first, one a little on one side, and then the next to it a little
on the other side, and so on to the end of the saw; so that when sawing,
the cut may be wide enough for the blade to move easily. Now the fly's
saw has the teeth a little bent, or twisted, too; but it has something
else: on the outside of every tooth there are a great many very small
teeth, so that the outside of every one is just like a _rasp_, or
_file_."

"But, Uncle Philip, it must take them a great while to saw a very little
cut; they are so small."

"Yes, it does; but they persevere. It takes them more than an hour and a
half to make one groove, and sometimes they will go on and make as many
as six without stopping. That shows, boys, what perseverance will do."

"And when it is done sawing, Uncle Philip, where does it keep its saws?"

"Oh, I told you they fitted in a case; but when the fly is done sawing,
it uses the saws to put the egg in the place cut for it, and then it
draws the saws almost entirely into the case, and drops upon the egg a
sort of frothy stuff like a drop of soap-lather."

"What is that for?"

"I suppose it is to glue the egg fast, or else to keep the juices in the
bush from hurting it."

"Well, this is a curious fly, Uncle Philip."

"It is strange, boys, because you never heard of it before; but it is a
cunning fly, as well as a curious one."

"What does it do, Uncle Philip?"

"Why, when it is frightened, it will fold up its case and saws under its
body, and draw up its legs, and pretend to be dead; and then it will not
move, even if you stick a pin through it."

"Can you tell us any thing more about this fly?"

"Nothing very strange, boys; but we have found out _two_ tools, I think,
a saw and a rasp, and that is enough for one poor little fly to give us.
Here, boys, are pictures of these saws; I have made them a great deal
larger than they are in the fly, so that you can see them plainly."






     _Uncle Philip tells the Children about Grasshoppers and Bees,
     that bore Holes with a Gimlet._


"Well, Uncle Philip, here we are again, to hear more about the tools
that animals work with; we have seen in the bark of trees, and old
wooden posts, little holes as round as a gimlet could make, and we
have been thinking whether any of these little creatures have augers
and gimlets, as well as saws. Do you know of any of them that can bore
holes?"

"Oh yes, boys; I know of more than one that can bore as smooth and round
a hole as any carpenter you ever saw. There are some of the grasshoppers
that have an excellent gimlet. The contrivance has five pieces in it;
two of the pieces make a case to keep the augers in, two more are the
augers or borers, and the other is a piece between the two borers on
which they slide; this piece has a ridge on each side of it, and the
augers have a groove which exactly fits the ridge. Besides this, each
auger ends in a knob, and that knob has teeth all around it. Here is a
picture of it."



"But, Uncle Philip, what is the piece with the ridge for?"

"Ah, boys, that piece shows the wisdom and the goodness of God. '_His
tender mercies are over all his works_:' he has placed that piece there
to keep the borers stiff, so that they cannot get out of joint, or be
broken, when the little workman is boring."

"Well, this is very curious."

"Yes; but there are some of these insect workmen more curious still.
Did you ever see a spy-glass? You know it is a round, hollow piece of
wood, with brass tubes in it, which are made smaller and smaller, so
as to slide into one another, when the glass is not used. Now there
is a sort of gadfly (she is a little creature, too) which has exactly
such a contrivance to keep her gimlet in. It is in four pieces, and the
smallest piece ends in five sharp points, three of which are longer than
the other two: she twists these five sharp points into one piece, and
as some are longer and some shorter, when they are all put together,
they make a sharp edge running all around, and are almost exactly like
an auger or gimlet. When she wants to use it, she just shoots out the
different tubes, so as to make a stem for the gimlet; and when she is
done, she puts all back into its case again.

"Here is a drawing of it, and I think that by looking at it you will
understand what I have been telling you: I do not know whether men
learned from this part of the fly how to make the case of a spy-glass;
but I know they might have learned.


"There is also a bee, boys, which is called the _carpenter-bee_, because
it is such an excellent wood-borer. It commonly looks for some old post,
or dry plank, or withered part of a tree, to work in. It never works in
wood that is green and has the sap or juices in it; for the bee knows,
just as well as any carpenter does, that it is very hard to get tools
through such wood. I expect that you have seen sometimes, when an old
post or dry board was split, a long hollow groove in the middle of it,
with little round thin pieces of something like paper, about as thick as
a wafer, fastened in it by their edges, one above the other, all the way
through. These show the work of the carpenter-bee: she bored the hole,
and she put those little partitions like paper in it, to separate the
cells; and more than that, she made the partitions out of the dust she
got by boring. She always likes, too, to get a piece of wood in a place
where the sun can shine on it; and when she has made her choice, she
begins to bore at first into the post in a slanting direction, and as
soon as she has gone far enough in, she then turns and bores straight,
with the grain of the wood."

"Does she do it quickly, Uncle Philip?"

"Not very quickly, for sometimes the wood is very hard; I have seen
one of these holes nearly twelve inches long in a very hard oak board.
Sometimes she has to work at it for months; but she works steadily,
boys, and that does a great deal. What makes it more tiresome is, that
the poor little creature has to bring out all the dust she makes by
boring."

"How large is the hole?"

"Oh, large enough to put my forefinger in, and sometimes fifteen inches
long. After she has bored it as deep as is necessary, she begins to
divide it into separate cells. So she commences at the bottom, and puts
in a quantity of what is called bee-bread, until it reaches about an
inch in height; on the top of this she lays an egg, and the bread is put
there to feed the young one as soon as it comes out of the egg. She then
makes a floor over it out of the dust, as I told you; she knows how to
glue this dust together, and she brings it grain by grain from the heap
in which she put it when she first brought it out: and she always begins
by gluing the dust around the outside of the hole she has bored, and
then glues another ring to that, and then another, and another, making
each ring smaller and smaller, until she has it all filled; so that her
floor, when it is done, appears like a parcel of rings of smaller and
smaller sizes placed within each other. On the top of this floor she
puts bee-bread, as before, and places another egg on it, and then covers
it with a floor again; and so she goes on making cells and filling them
with bread, and covering each with a floor, until she has filled up the
hole."

"Uncle Philip, how do the young bees get out when the egg is hatched? It
seems as if they were shut up for ever in prison."

"No, boys; there is a way for them to get out, and it shows the
wonderful wisdom of God in teaching this poor bee how to contrive the
matter. The egg which is put in the lowest cell being the oldest, the
little worm that is afterward to be a bee will come out of that one
first: now, you know, he never could get through all the cells over his
head, filled as they are with bee-bread, so as to come out at the top
of the hole. If he gets out at all, then, it must be at the bottom. The
old bee knows this, and she so arranges these eggs that when the worm
comes out it will be with his head pointed downwards; he falls to eating
his bread, and so eats himself down to the bottom of his cell, and there
he finds that his mother has bored a hole from his cell to the outside,
and through that he comes out. When his brother in the cell above him
has eaten his way down to the bottom of his cell, he just eats through
the floor and gets into the cell below, which is then empty, you know,
and walks out at the same hole which his older brother used before him.
And so all the rest one after another eat their way downwards into the
empty cells below them, and get out at the same back-door, which their
mother made by what we call her _instinct_, which just means the share
of wisdom which God gives to the lower animals to show them how to take
care of themselves."



"Why, that instinct, as you call it, Uncle Philip, is a curious thing."

"Very curious, very curious indeed, boys; and at some other time, if
you wish, we will talk more about it, and I will tell you a great many
stories of animals, which will show you their instinct. But for this
time I have told you enough to keep you thinking until we meet again. So
now just look at this picture of the carpenter-bee's house, and then you
may go home."






     _Uncle Philip tells the Children about Animals that are
     Tailors._


"Uncle Philip, we are very glad to see you, and we think we have found
out something to ask you, about a kind of work which men do, that no
other animal can accomplish. As we came along this morning to visit
you, and were talking of what you had told us of insects that, like
carpenters, could saw wood and bore holes in it, we passed by the
tailor's shop, near the church; 'and now,' said we, 'we have found out
something which will puzzle good Uncle Philip: there are surely no
tailors among the lower animals; so we will ask him to-day to talk about
creatures that can cut out cloth and sew it up with a needle.'"

"Ah, my dear children, there are a great many things which would puzzle
Uncle Philip. I do not know every thing; nor do I suppose that I can
find _every_ trade in the world among the dumb creatures which God has
made. But you have made a bad choice of a puzzle this morning, my boys;
for there are tailors among the inferior creatures, and some pretty nice
ones, too; at any rate, they always cut so as to fit exactly."

"Why, Uncle Philip! You do not mean to say that they can cut out
_cloth_, and then sew it up again with a needle and thread!"

"No, boys; I do not think it is to be expected that they should take
a pair of shears and cut a piece of cloth, or put a piece of thread
through the eye of a steel needle; any more than we expect the insect
that saws, to go to the cabinet-maker, and borrow his tool to work
with. But with the instruments which God has given to them, they will
cut what is cloth to them, the leaves of trees and flowers, and will sew
them together too: and, now I think of it, there is one that will cut
his garments out of our cloth."

"Pray let us hear about them, Uncle Philip."

"Softly, boys, softly. I have two things to say to you before I begin.
In the first place, I am very glad to hear that you think and talk among
yourselves about the things which I tell you: and in the next place, I
know that you love _me_, and, therefore would not wish, by _puzzling_
me, as you call it, to produce mortification or vexation; nor do I
think that I should have felt either vexed or mortified had I not been
able to find tailors among the lower animals; but I do not wish you to
take pleasure in puzzling people; for it is very apt to produce in you
a feeling of triumph, and to make you vain: and you must remember that
for _one_ of your questions which cannot be answered, a _thousand_ might
be put to you, of the answer to which you would be ignorant. No man, my
dear boys, knows every thing. Wise men talk with each other, that they
may learn from each other; and the wisest are not ashamed to acknowledge
their ignorance of some things; and I believe they take very little
pleasure in puzzling. It is our duty to learn all that we can, and to be
always willing at a proper time to teach others what we know."

"Thank you, dear Uncle Philip, for your advice. We did not mean to
triumph over _you_, if you had not been able to tell us of tailors among
the animals. But we see that you are right. We might get a foolish
habit, which would do us harm."

"Exactly what I meant, boys; and now let us begin. And first we will
talk of the cutting out, as the tailor always does that before he sews.
There is a kind of bee[1] which, like some of the insects we have
already spoken of, is furnished with a borer. With this she forms a
round hole, like that made with an auger or gimlet, in a hard-trodden
path, or sometimes in a piece of soft decayed wood. It is in making her
nest in this hole that she plays the part of a tailor, for the nest is
made of leaves, sometimes taken from the rose, at others from the birch,
ash, or other trees. The little creature cuts them commonly, and I
believe always, into two shapes. They are either half-oval, that is,
half the shape of the bowl of a spoon, or round, and are of different
sizes. Sometimes she makes a mistake in the size, and when she finds it
out, she alters it. These leaves are prepared to line the hole which
she has bored, and she begins with the largest pieces; taking them into
the hole, she winds around in it, until she has spread very smoothly a
tube of leaves the whole length of it; she then closes up one end of it
by rounding it off and doubling the pieces of leaf one over another.
In this case she sets about making her _cells_. She takes three of her
half-oval pieces which have been cut to fit, and contrives to roll them,
so that the edge of one piece will just lap over the edge of the next;
these, when she has finished rolling them, make the hollow of the cell,
which is not quite an inch high. She next turns up the ends of these
pieces, which are cut to fit, so as to form the bottom: she then sets to
work with three other pieces rolled in the same way inside of the cell
just finished, turning up their ends as before to form the bottom; and
within these she again works three others, so that her cell, when it is
done, is of nine thicknesses of leaves. And you see why, though she cuts
the pieces of the same shape, they are not all of one size: they are
of three sizes, so as to make the cells within each other smaller and
smaller."

"But, Uncle Philip, you have not said any thing about the round pieces
which she cuts; how does she use them?"

"I will tell you: after she has finished one cell she lays an egg in it,
and fills it all round with food nearly liquid; now as the cell is lying
down on its side, all this liquid food would run out if it were not
corked up, and the bee therefore uses her circular pieces to stop up the
cells."

"And does she really make these round pieces to fit the cell?"

"Yes, boys, exactly; and they are cut too as regularly as if they had
been first measured and marked with a pair of compasses. And, more than
this, the little creature will fit one in in less than a minute. But the
most curious thing is, that sometimes she will fly off to a distance
to get this round piece, and bring back one which will exactly suit;
so that it really seems as if she carried the size in her head. After
finishing one cell she will make another, until she has completed as
many as she wants; and then, as she always builds them one upon another,
they appear like a parcel of thimbles stuck into each other and put into
a case: and here is a picture of it."



"This is very wonderful, Uncle Philip; and it does seem like cutting out
pieces to fit."

"Very true: but this is not the only cutter-out of leaves among the
bees. There is another kind, called the poppy-bee,[2] because it uses
the scarlet leaves of the poppy-flower to line its cell. It makes its
hole in the ground, as smooth and regular and polished as can be, and
then proceeds to line it all around with pieces of the leaves, and cuts
them to fit as she goes on. If a piece is too large she will trim it
down to the proper size and shape, and always carries away the scraps.
Now if you should take a pair of scissors and try to cut the leaf of a
poppy-flower, you would wrinkle it, but this little workman will spread
out what she cuts as smooth as glass. When she has lined this hole
throughout, and carried the lining out beyond the entrance, she fills it
with honey and _pollen_, or bee-bread, as it is called, about half an
inch high, lays an egg, then folds down the leaves on it, and finally
fills the upper part with earth."

"Then she was not working for herself?"

"No; she was providing a house for her young, and God has taught her
thus to take care of it.

"I will now tell you of another little workman, which I have heard
called the cloak-maker, because it makes for itself a mantle which
really appears very much like a cloak; and, stranger still, this cloak
is lined throughout with silk."

"Can it be possible, Uncle Philip?"

"Listen, and you shall hear. These mantle-looking cases are made by
the _larva_, as it is called, or grub of a little moth which forms a
covering of pure silk; this silk it spins from itself; it is not woven
so as to appear like our silk, but still it is real silk, and is worked
into a great many thin scales, which lap over one another like the
scales of a fish. But this is only the lining of the cloak. This little
tailor is the field-moth, which first eats what it wants from a green
leaf, and then, from the thin membranes left, sets about making its
mantle: and it makes it of two pieces cut out and joined together with a
seam, just as a tailor would make it."

"How does it go to work, Uncle Philip?"

"Why, I will give you the account as it was given by a gentleman[3] who
was very fond of observing insects, and who watched one of these little
creatures. He says that from the thin membrane of the leaf it first
cut two pieces just equal in size and of exactly the same shape; each
of these pieces was to form one-half of the cloak, and this he says was
done wonderfully fast. He noticed, too, that one end of each piece, that
which was meant for the bottom of the cloak, was just twice as long as
the other end, which was the top. The insect then placed itself between
the two pieces while they were lying flat; it afterward brought the two
sides where the seam was to be, together, and fastened them at certain
places, still leaving, however, considerable spaces open. It then began
to turn and twist its body about in all directions, until it moulded
the pieces into a hollow form to fit. When it found that it would fit
its body, it brought the edges of the seam close together through the
whole length, and contrived to sew or fasten them so neatly together,
that when the gentleman looked, even with a magnifying-glass, he said he
could hardly find the seam. The whole was lined with the silk spun from
itself, and was finished in about twelve hours."

"Why, this little workman is the strangest of all: but, Uncle Philip,
you said there was one of these animal tailors that cut his garment out
of _cloth_: pray tell us of him."

"When I said that, boys, I was thinking of the clothes-moth.[4] They
make their coats of wool commonly taken from our cloth, and silk drawn
from their own mouths; and the strangest thing concerning them is,
that when they outgrow their clothes they will piece them to make them
larger. Suppose the insect wants it longer, it adds a new ring of wool
to the end: suppose it wants it wider, it slits the case or garment, not
from one end to the other, for this would leave it naked, but it splits
it half-way down the sides, and when it has filled it in with proper
pieces, it splits the remaining half, and puts other pieces in them.
There is another curious thing about this tailor: it always makes its
coat of the same colour with the cloth from which it takes the wool; so
that if it has first made its garment of a piece of blue cloth, and is
placed on a bit of red cloth when it wishes to enlarge it, you will see
its work exactly, for the pieces which it puts in will be red. This is
the little fellow, boys, which does so much mischief to our clothes."

"Well, Uncle Philip, one can almost forgive his mischief for the sake
of his ingenuity. But you have said nothing yet about _needles_; how do
these little creatures sew?"

"Why, they have what serves as a needle to them: but I can tell you of
another animal which sews with a needle a great deal plainer to be seen
than that of these little insects."

"Pray let us hear of him, Uncle Philip."

"I must go among the birds to find this workman. There is a kind of
starling, called the orchard starling,[5] about which, Mr. Wilson, a
gentleman who has written a great deal concerning the birds of our
country, gives a very curious account. He says that this bird commonly
hangs its nest from the twigs of an apple-tree, and makes it in a very
singular manner. The outside is made of a particular kind of long
tough grass, that will bend without breaking, and this grass is knit
or sewed through and through in a thousand directions, just as if done
with a needle. The little creature does it with its feet and bill. Mr.
Wilson says that he one day showed one of these nests to an old lady,
and she was so much struck with the work that she asked him, half in
earnest, if he did not think that these birds could be taught to _darn
stockings_? Mr. Wilson took the pains too to draw out one of these
grass threads, and found that it measured thirteen inches, and in that
distance the bird who used it had passed it in and out thirty-four
times."

"Why, this was sewing, sure enough."

"Yes; and I saw, when I was in the West Indies, another kind of
starling[6] which will cut leaves into a shape like the quarter of
an orange-rind, and sew the whole very neatly to the under side of a
banana-leaf, so as to make one side of the nest. But, boys, there is
another most beautiful little bird, which is called the tailor-bird,
because it sews so well.[7] It first picks out a plant with large
leaves, then it gathers cotton from the shrub, and with the help of
its fine long bill and slender little feet it spins this cotton into a
thread, and then using its bill for a needle, it will sew these large
leaves together to hide its nest, and sew them very neatly, too."

"Why, dear Uncle Philip, this is the most wonderful tailor of them all."

"He is, indeed: but, my children, what do we learn from all that I have
been telling you? Who made these little creatures with such curious
skill, and taught them to work so well? It was the same God who made us;
for such wonderful things never came from what people call _chance_.
Chance, boys, never made any thing: and how very wise he must be to
form such nice little workmen; and how very good thus to teach them how
to take care of themselves. The Bible says, truly, that '_his tender
mercies are over all his works_.' And I think, boys, we may learn
another thing: it is, not to be so very proud of what we know; for I
rather suppose that we shall often find that the lower creatures around
us understood many of our trades long before we found them out."

"Yes, Uncle Philip, it is likely that these little fellows you have been
telling us of this morning were the first tailors in the world."

"Very likely, very likely indeed, boys. But now I must bid you good
morning; for here comes our good clergyman, and I am going with him to
see a poor sick woman."

"Good morning, Uncle Philip; we will come again on Saturday."


FOOTNOTES:

[1] Megachile centuncularis.

[2] Osmia papaveris.

[3] Reaumur.

[4] Tinea sarcitella.

[5] Icterus mutatus.

[6] Icterus bonana.

[7] Sylvia sutoria.





     _Uncle Philip tells the Children about the first Paper in the
     World, made by Wasps._


"Ah, boys! how do you do? This is Saturday, and I have been expecting to
see you come for some time."

"Why, Uncle Philip, we should have been here sooner, but we went round
by the old mill; because we thought that perhaps we might find in some
of the old timbers, holes bored by some of those industrious little
carpenters you told us about."

"Well; and did you find any?"

"No; but we found something else, which we have brought to show you: and
we have been talking about it all the way. We have not discovered any
new _tools_ among the animals, but we think we have found out a _trade_
that some of them work at; and we wish you to tell us if we are right."

"Oh, that I will do, with pleasure, if I can. What is the trade that
you think you have discovered?"

"It is paper-making, Uncle Philip. We have found this part of a wasp's
nest, which we have brought along; and as you told us it was always best
to notice every thing closely, we examined this, and it appeared so much
like coarse paper that we thought (for we knew it was made by wasps)
that man did not make the first paper in the world."

"Well, boys, that was not a bad thought. Now you see the advantage of
taking notice of things, and of thinking about what you see. You are
perfectly right in supposing that wasps make paper; and, if you please,
we will talk this morning about the wasps."

"Oh yes, yes, by all means, Uncle Philip; and we will thank you, too."

"I must first tell you, then, that of the wasps there are several kinds.
Some build their nests under ground, and some hang theirs in the air to
the limb of a tree. This part of a nest which you have found belonged to
the last kind; but I will tell you something about both. But before I
begin let me get some drawings I have, which will help us to understand
better. I have them. And now, of the wasps which build under ground.
As soon as the warm season begins, the first care of the mother-wasp
is to look for a fit place in which to build; and in the spring of the
year she may very often be seen flying about a hole in the bank of a
ditch, and looking into it. These holes which she examines are the old
houses of field-mice or moles, and some persons have thought, what I
expect is true, that she likes to take such old holes, because they save
her a great deal of hard work. But still, as the holes are not large
enough for her use, she has a great deal of labour to make them do. So
she goes at once to work, digging in the hole she has chosen, and makes
a winding, zigzag gallery, about two feet long, and about an inch in
width. She digs out the earth, and carries it out, or pushes it out
behind her as she goes on. This gallery ends in a large chamber or hole
from one to two feet across when it is done: and now she is ready to
begin her nest."

"Now then, Uncle Philip, she will begin to make paper, will she not?"

"Yes; but here I ought to tell you that it was a long time before men
found out what she made it of. Do you remember my telling you of a
gentleman who watched the little cloak-maker to see how he made his
garment? Well, this gentleman, whose name was Reaumur, was trying for
twenty years, he says, to find out how the wasp made paper, before he
succeeded. At last, one day, he saw a female wasp alight on the sash
of his window and begin to gnaw the wood; he watched her, and saw that
she pulled off from the wood fibre after fibre, about the tenth part of
an inch long, and not so large as a hair. She gathered these up into a
knot with her feet, and then flew to another part of the sash, and went
to work, stripping off more fibres or threads, and putting them to the
bundle she had already. At last he caught her, to examine the bundle,
and found that its colour was exactly like that of a wasp's nest; but
the little ball was dry; she had not yet wetted it to make a pulp of it
which could be spread out. He noticed another thing, that this bundle
was not at all like wood gnawed by other insects; it was not sawdust,
but threads of some little length bruised into lint. He then set to work
himself with his penknife, and very soon scraped and bruised some of the
wood of the same window-sash, so as to make a little ball exactly like
the wasp's. Mr. Reaumur thought that this was the stuff out of which the
wasp made paper, and it has since been found out that he was right. The
animal wets its little bundle of bruised wooden fibres or threads with
a kind of glue that it has, and this makes it stick together like pulp
or paste; and while it is soft, the wasp walks backwards, and spreads it
out with her feet and her tongue, until she has made it almost as thin
as the thinnest paper. With this she lines the top of the hole in which
she is going to build her nest, for she always begins at the top. But
this is so thin that it would be too weak to keep the dirt from falling
in; and therefore she goes on spreading her papers one upon the other
until she has made the wall nearly two inches thick. These pieces are
not laid exactly flat on each other like two pieces of pasteboard, but
with little open spaces between, being joined at the edges only. This
is the ceiling; and when it is finished she begins to build what may be
called the highest floor of the nest; this she makes of the same paper
in a great number of little cells all joined together at the sides; and
instead of fastening this floor to the sides of the nest, she hangs it
to the ceiling by rods made also out of this paper: these rods are small
in the middle, and grow larger towards the ends, so as to be stronger.
Here is a drawing of one.



She then makes a second floor, and hangs it under the first by rods as
before; and the whole of it, when finished, if it should be cut straight
through the middle, would appear something like the following picture of
one which I made some years ago."


"This is a very ingenious little paper-maker. Uncle Philip."

"Yes, boys, it is so. This of which I have been telling you is the
ground-wasp. The tree-wasp makes its nest of paper prepared in the same
way; and the nests are of different shapes. One makes it in a round
flattened ball, not much larger than a rose, and when cut open it shows
layer upon layer of leaves of the same thin grayish-looking paper. This
kind is not so common, however. Here is one of their nests.



"Another makes its nest of cells placed in separate floors, but without
any outer wall to keep off the rain; and the most curious thing in this
nest is, that it is not placed in a horizontal way; that is, it is not
placed with the floors level, because then the cells would catch the
rain, and the nest would be spoiled; but it is always placed slanting,
so that the rain may run off. It is always placed, too, so as to face
the north or the west, and I suppose it is because the wasp knows that
it is in more danger of rain from the south and the east. Here is a nest
of this kind."


"Ah, Uncle Philip! this must be a kind of lazy wasp. It does not choose
to take the trouble to cover up the house, and so it hangs it slanting,
to make the rain run off."

"It may be so, boys; but I think that in making this wasp lazy, you make
it a very sensible wasp; else how should it know that water would run
down a slanting surface? But I cannot believe that it is so lazy; for,
though it does not cover up the whole house in a paper shell, yet it
does what no other wasp does, it covers its nest with a complete coat of
shining, water-proof varnish, to prevent the rain from soaking into the
cells. And putting on this varnish, I can tell you, is no trifling work.
It forms a pretty large part of the labour of the whole swarm belonging
to the nest; and sometimes you may see some of them at work for hours at
a time, spreading it on with their tongues. No, my lads, he who wants an
example of laziness, will not find it among the wasps.

"But let us come back to the paper. Hornets make paper for their nests
much in the same manner as the wasps do, only it is coarser. There is,
however, one kind of wasp which makes a sort of paper more curious than
this which you have found. It is not a wasp found in this country at
all. It is the Cayenne wasp, and so smooth, strong, and white is the
outside of his nest that it appears like a card, and he is for that
reason sometimes called the card-maker wasp. He hangs his nest on the
branch of a tree, and it is so hard and polished on the outside that
the rain rolls off from it, as if it were glass. A little hole in the
lower end is left for the animal to pass in and out; and in this picture
of it, which I have, a piece is left out of the side to show how the
cells within are fixed."



"Well, then, Uncle Philip, we were right in thinking that wasps were the
first paper-makers; and very glad we are that we saw this old piece of
a wasp's nest. Who would have thought that so much could be learned by
picking up this old scrap of a wasp's work!"

"Very good sense, boys, in that thought. A wise man will learn something
from almost any thing. Use your eyes, and think of what you see. Now in
this very trade of paper-making. I think that man would have found it
out a great deal sooner if he had watched the wasps at their work. They
have been excellent workmen at this business from the beginning; and man
has gone on learning little by little of this very trade, as I will tell
you at some other time, when he might have made a long step at once,
had he but noticed wasps and hornets. We go on very slowly sometimes in
learning to make a trade as perfect as it can be: the poor animal, with
its knowledge such as God gave it, is often our superior. These dumb
creatures cannot teach us every thing; there is a point to which they
can go, and no further: but as far as they do know, their knowledge is
perfect; and I make no doubt that a great many useful things not now
known will hereafter be found out by watching dumb animals."






     _Uncle Philip tells the Children a Story about Tom Smith; and
     of Bees with Brushes and Baskets, and of a Bird with a Chisel, and
     a Gnat with a Lancet._


"Uncle Philip, as the day is fine, instead of sitting here, will you
walk with us, this morning?"

"Yes, boys; let me get my cane and hat, and we will take a ramble;
perhaps we may see something, if we will use our eyes. Where do you wish
to go?"

"Oh, we do not care much, if you are with us, which way we walk; any
course will be pleasant."

"Come on, then; we will cross the river, and go down on the other side
beyond the old mill, where you found the wasp's paper. And now, such of
you as will, may keep a look-out for curious things, while the rest of
us will talk together.--Boys, do any of you know Tom Smith?"

"Know him! Why, Uncle Philip, everybody in this part of the country
knows him; he is such a shocking drunkard, and swears so horribly, that
nobody can forget him; and what makes it worse, he is an old man, too.
His hair is almost as white as yours, Uncle Philip."

"Yes; he is just about my age. We were both born here, and I have known
him ever since we were boys; and when we played together as children,
over this very field which we are now crossing, or caught fish in
the river down yonder by the rocks, there was not a more decent,
well-behaved, handsome boy among us than was Tom Smith. Poor Tom lost
his father when he was about twelve years old, and his mother, having
no other child, indulged him, until he was sent to the city to go into
a store. But Tom then, boys, had good principles; he neither swore nor
got drunk. In a little time he fell into bad company, and they led him
astray by degrees. He was so good-natured (as they call it), boys,
that he had never the firmness to say _no_ to the proposals of his
companions. He went with them to places of amusement; and instead of
spending his evenings in his own room, reading, he was at the theatre,
or dancing in some place, or at a supper with his young companions;
and finally he began to play cards and billiards with them; while the
inside of the church was a place which he never saw. He was cheated by
his companions; and too honest he was then not to pay what he lost by
gaming: he wrote to his poor mother, and told her the truth, as to his
losses, and she sent him money to pay his debts, and told him to come
home. He did come home; and even after all that had happened, poor Tom
might have been respectable and happy; for his friends were all willing
to forget the past, and encourage him for the future. For a time he went
on pretty well, and married an affectionate and good young woman, and
his prospects were bright enough: but one thing, boys--one single thing,
ruined his comfort for ever. In the city he had learned _to drink strong
liquors_.

"I remember, too, soon after he came home and married, that a man was
hung not far from here for murdering his wife. The man was a drunkard,
though he was quite sober when he killed the poor woman; and drunkenness
had hardened his heart. I have no doubt, as it will the heart of any
man. Tom was talking to me about that man, and I remember he said then
that when a man _began_ to drink, he could never say where it would end,
nor what he would do: 'therefore,' said Tom, 'beware of the _first_
drink.' But Tom, though he talked like a Christian and a man about it,
did not act like one: for it was not long before he began to follow his
bad habit, and he soon killed his poor mother; for she died of grief
and sorrow, I think. His excellent wife speedily followed her to the
grave; and Tom Smith left the village, a perfect vagabond, whom no one
cared for. Where he went, or what he did for a long time, no person
here knows. I went to other countries, and neither heard of nor saw Tom
Smith until my return home, when I found him wandering about here, a
gray-headed swearer and drunkard. He did not know me, and I never should
have known him, had not some one told me who he was. And last night I
received a letter from one of my nephews in the city, which informed
me that Tom Smith had been tried in the court, and found guilty of
stealing, and was sent to the state prison for ten years to hard work.
There I suppose he will die for he is now old; and it is awful to think
of what is then to become of his soul. Ah, my dear boys! I could not
help thinking, when I read my letter, of what that man said to me years
ago--and I have told you his story, hoping that you will remember his
words, 'Beware of the _first_ drink.' The man who does that will never
be a drunkard. And when old Uncle Philip is laid in the grave, boys,
which must be before many years, remember, as you look upon the place,
that he told you the story of Tom Smith, and charged you to 'beware of
the _first_ drink.'

"But here come some of the boys, running towards us; I suppose they have
found something."

"Oh, Uncle Philip! Uncle Philip! Do come with the boys this way. Under
that fence yonder there are a great many beautiful wild flowers, and a
number of bees are as busy as they can be about them; pray come and see
them."

"Well, I will; but not so fast, boys; you forget that I am an old
man, and cannot run as you do.--So, here are, indeed, a great many
industrious little workmen."

"What are they doing, Uncle Philip?"

"These are _workers_ among the bees, and they are gathering the dust out
of the flowers, to work it up into what is commonly called bee-bread.
More tools here, boys!"

"Tools, Uncle Philip! Ah, we like that: pray let us hear of them; what
are they?"

"Why, there is a brush and a basket in the legs of these little fellows;
but they are so small that you cannot see them without a microscope."

"What is a microscope?"

"It is an instrument, made by fixing glasses in such a way to look
through, that small things will seem to be very large. Do you not see
how some of these little fellows are rolling themselves over in the
inside of the flowers, so that the yellow dust is sticking to them?
Now their breasts, and legs, and many other parts of their bodies are
covered with very short hairs, which catch the dust. The last joint but
one of each leg is made exactly like a brush, the hairs being longer
there than on any other part; and with these they brush off the dust,
and get it into two little heaps. The bags into which they put it, or
rather the baskets, are in the thighs of the last pair of legs. These
are hollow, so as to form a three-sided basket. The bottom of it is
smooth and shining, and appears like horn, and all around the edges are
placed very strong, thick-set hairs, like bristles."

"What are these for?"

"To keep things from falling out of the basket; and these bristles are
so strong that even if they heap up more than the basket will hold, the
bristles will keep it from falling. Here is a drawing of these legs.



Besides carrying this dust, they also carry what is called _propolis_."

"What is propolis, Uncle Philip?"

"It is a gum which is found upon some trees. This they work up into
little balls, and knead it until it is a little dry, so as not to stick.
This takes the bee sometimes as much as half an hour. When the balls
are ready, she passes them backwards with her feet to the basket, puts
them in, and gives them a pat or two to make them lie close; and when
she adds more, she pats it still harder, and when the basket is full,
away she goes to the hive. But there is another curious instrument about
the bee. I mean its sting: this is like the head of a barbed or bearded
arrow. There is a sheath for it when the bee does not wish to use it;
and here is a picture of it.



But let us now continue our walk."

"Well, Uncle Philip, it is really very pleasant to walk with you: it
seems as if you met nothing which could not teach us things worth
knowing."

"Why, my dear boys, there are, as I told you once before, a great many
things which I do not know; and what I do know I am very willing to tell
you. But you may learn just as I did,--by reading, by taking notice of
things around you, and by thinking for yourselves. And I do not know any
thing more pleasant to notice than the works of God. I see his wisdom
and his goodness in every thing which he has made. I see them in the
insects, and the birds, and the larger animals; I see them in the grass,
and the flowers, and the trees; and I see them in the rocks and the
stones upon the ground. All these things are well worth our attention,
boys; the study of all these things around us is called the study of
'Natural History;' and I think it is apt to make him who loves it a
better man; at any rate, I believe that there have been very few who
have been fond of it, who have not been amiable and benevolent men. But,
hark! Do you hear that noise?"

"Yes, Uncle Philip; it is the sound of men chopping wood in that clump
of trees."

"No, boys; it is like the sound of a wood-cutter; and it is a
wood-cutter, but he does not use one of our hatchets."

"What is it that he uses, then?"

"He uses the tool which God gave him. It is a bird, boys, which you
hear: it is the woodpecker. See, there it is on yonder tree, and look,
at the foot of it, there is something like a bushel of the bird's chips
or dust. Its bill is a complete chisel; it is straight, hard, and sharp,
with edges too upon the sides. It is not a very broad chisel, but still
it is one, and used as we use ours. But the chisel is not the only
instrument of that workman. Its tongue is worth examining. It bores a
hole into a tree that is dead or decaying, to look for insects whose
nests are in the tree; and when it reaches the cell where the young
insect is, it uses its tongue to get it out, and it suits exactly for
the business. In the first place, it is so long that the bird can shoot
it out three or four inches longer than the bill is; in the next place
the end of it is tipped with a stiff, sharp, long thorn; and in the
last place, that thorn has little teeth on both sides of it, like that
which you see on the point of a fish-hook: these teeth are to keep the
insect from falling off when it puts its tongue in the hole and sticks
its sharp point into it to draw it out for food. So that besides the
chisel, the woodpecker has a spear, or lance, or arrow, barbed (as it is
called) or bearded at the point.

"But we are some distance, boys, beyond the old mill: suppose we now
turn back towards home; I find the gnats rather troublesome."

"So do we, Uncle Philip; they have been biting us for some time: it
would be well if there were no such tormenting things in the world."

"I am not sure of that, boys. We may not always be able to find out the
exact use of some of these little animals; but that only shows that we
are ignorant, not that they are of no use. God would never have made
them if he had not some wise purpose in doing so: I do not believe he
ever wastes his power in making useless things. But what will you say
about gnats, when I tell you that they have a tool to work with, and a
very perfect one, too?"

"Why, we will almost forgive them for biting us."

"Biting you! They have not been biting with teeth: they are doctors,
boys; they have only been bleeding you, and cupping you."

"And what have they been bleeding us with?"

"Why, with a lancet, to be sure; what should a doctor use but a lancet
to let blood?"

"And has the gnat really a lancet?"

"Yes, it has: this instrument forms a part of what you may call the
tongue of the gnat: it is made up of five pieces, which are shut up in
a case, split from one end to the other; these give steadiness to the
lancet when it is used. But the reason of the pain is not so much the
wound of the lancet, as it is the fluid or poisonous juice which the
gnat puts into the wound to make the blood thin enough for the insect to
suck it up through a tube or case, which makes part of its mouth. Here
is a drawing of part of a gnat's mouth.



And here is a picture of the lancet or knife of a horse-fly.



"We have now reached the bridge,--and here we must part; your homes are
in one direction, and mine is in the opposite. I hope, however, that you
have learned something in our morning's walk."

"We have, Uncle Philip, and we thank you much, and bid you, good day."

"Good day, boys."






     _Uncle Philip tells the Children about Animals that can do
     Mason's Work._


"Uncle Philip, we saw a very strange thing just now; as we were coming,
we saw a great many bees flying by us, and each one was carrying a
little stone."

"That was strange, indeed. Did you find out any thing about them?"

"We asked a man who was near what they did it for, and he said that they
carried the stones to prevent the wind, which is blowing pretty fresh,
from tossing them about too much."

"That is a very silly story, boys, though it is a very old one: for I
have seen them carrying what you call stones when it was quite calm, and
there was no wind to blow them away. The man was very ignorant, or he
would have told you another story, which would have been both strange
and true."

"Will you have the goodness, Uncle Philip, to tell us what it meant?"

"Very willingly, boys. What you saw I presume were bees. You remember
that I told you there were several kinds of bees; and this one is called
the mason-bee. This kind builds his nest of mortar, and was therefore
called the mason-bee by Mr. Reaumur first, I believe."

"Where does it get the mortar, Uncle Philip?"

"It makes it, boys. This kind of bee may be seen flying about, picking
up sand, grain by grain, putting it into a heap, gluing them together
with a sort of gum out of her own mouth, and building with them a
foundation for her house. This little workman commonly builds against
the side of a wall between two bricks where the mortar has fallen out;
and if you should see one of the nests, it appears exactly like a lump
of dry mud which has been thrown wet upon the wall out of a cart-rut:
but when you examine it closely, you may see a great many small stones
in it, more than is common in mud: a hundred people, though, might pass
by it, and never think it was any thing more than a lump of dirt, which
had been thrown upon the wall when it was wet, and had afterward dried
there. Here is a picture of one of these nests.



You see there is a small hole in it; this leads to a cell inside about
an inch deep, and shaped exactly like a lady's thimble; the inside of
this cell is polished smooth, and appears like a wall of plaster, except
that it has little yellow stains upon it. Here is the bee that makes it.



In making this mortar to build with, the bee will sometimes add earth
that is soft to its grains of sand, and when the lump is about the size
of a small shot, it takes it up and flies away with it, to work it into
the wall."

"Does it always use sand, Uncle Philip?"

"Not always: sometimes it takes wet clay, and will dig into a bank of
clay baked hard by the sun on the outside, so as to get that which is
wet.

"Mr. Rennie, a gentleman in England who is very fond of watching
insects, and has found out a great many curious things about them, has
given an account of some of these bees which he noticed at work. Every
one was carrying out of a hole in the clay-bank a small lump of clay;
and on catching one of them, he found that this lump was wetter than
the clay in the hole, so that the bee had moistened it, and worked it
together, to make it stick like good mortar. These lumps too were larger
than a shot; they were as large as a garden-pea."

"How long did it take them to work up the lump?"

"About half a minute, Mr. Rennie says. He watched one of these little
creatures, and found that she was building on the inside wall of a
coal-house, where the bricks and mortar were left rough: she was at work
between two of the bricks where the mortar had fallen out, or where the
bee had taken it out. And the conduct of the bee at her house was very
different from what it was at the clay-bank. She was not frightened,
but went on working when any one came near the clay-bank; but at her
house she seemed afraid that it should be found out where it was. She
would alight first on the roof outside, as if she merely wished to rest
herself; and when she flew into the coal-house she would not go directly
to her nest, but would settle on a shelf, and sometimes pretend to be
examining a great many places in the wall between different bricks; and
at last, when she supposed there was no risk, or when there was nothing
to alarm her, she would fly to her nest, and go to work with all her
might in fixing her piece of clay to the wall."

"Why did she wish her house not to be found out, Uncle Philip?"

"Mr. Rennie supposed it was her instinct: she had seen probably some of
the insects which would destroy her young, watching her to see where
she was building; and sometimes after flying nearly to her nest with a
load, she would turn back and fly towards the clay-bank, or take a large
sweep off in another direction, and so come to her house.

"Besides the mason-bee, boys, there is the mason-wasp, which I have
heard some persons call the _dirt-dauber_: it is very common, especially
in the southern part of the United States. It works very much like the
mason-bee, only it is apt to fix its nest under the eaves of old houses,
which I think the mason-bee never does.

"There is also another kind of mason-wasp which will actually break a
hard brick. Mr. Rennie says that he saw one at work on a brick of a hard
yellow kind. Whether the wasp found a hole in the brick to begin with,
he did not know; but if he did he was hard at work making it larger: he
would break off a piece as large as a mustard-seed at a time. Here is
a drawing of that kind of wasp; and the insect is no larger than the
picture.



It seems wonderful that so small an insect should have so much strength.
Here is a picture of its jaws, seen through a microscope, so as to
appear a great deal larger than they really are.



"I do not know, boys, that the masons we have been talking of, show us
any _tools_ like those with which men who are masons work; but they show
us, at any rate, how to make mortar by kneading or working it together;
and they certainly show us that we were not the first who built walls.
But there is another kind of mason who works in stone. He picks out
the stones which are of proper size, and he fastens them together with
mortar really as men do."

"Pray tell us of him, Uncle Philip."

"I will. The insect I mean is the caddis-worm, which is to be found
sometimes in ponds, and very often in springs of fresh water. There
are several sorts of them, but the one I am thinking of now, builds a
stone house to live in. These worms are in the habit of making a little
tube, sometimes of sand, or shell, or wood, or leaves, or stones, to
live in; and their skill consists in joining these perfectly, and
making them stick together. But we are talking now of the caddis-worm
that uses stone. What the worm has to do is to make a tube out of small
stones, that shall have a hollow about as large as a wheat straw, and be
perfectly smooth inside. This is a pretty hard task--at least it would
be very hard to us. When the stone-mason wishes a stone of a particular
size or shape, and cannot find it, he takes his hammer and breaks one
until it will suit; but the caddis-worm has no hammer, and must take
the stones just as it finds them. The little insect then has to pick
out a great many stones before he gets the right one, because they have
so many little rough points about them that it is very difficult to
get those which will make the tube perfectly smooth inside. Remember,
too, that the bottom or lower side of this stone case has to be pretty
nearly smooth, so that the worm can drag it along on the bottom of the
spring or pond (for it never comes out of it), and you will see that the
picking out of the stones alone is no trifle. But besides this, it has
to fasten them together with mortar."

"And can the worm really do this, Uncle Philip? Will not the water wash
the mortar all away?"

"It certainly would if it were like common mortar. It was a long time
that men lived before they found out a mortar that would remain, and
grow hard under water. When they want to build a wall that is to be
under the water, they use a cement which is called pozzolana; it is
made of lava out of a volcano, and is water-proof. Our caddis-worm has
a cement too, which is better than pozzolana, and though it has been
tried, it cannot be melted or dissolved in water. Here is a drawing of
the stone nest of a caddis-worm."



"Uncle Philip, you said that sometimes these worms built their nests
of other things besides stones; let us hear something of them, if you
please."

"Very willingly, boys. Some build of shells: here are pictures of their
nests.



Some build of leaves, and others of pieces of reed or light bark.



And a curious thing about those which build of light pieces of bark
or reed is this, that they will make the top-piece come over so as to
hide their heads, and prevent you from seeing them. Some build of sand;
and then as the house would be so light that the water running from
the spring might wash it down and carry it away, the wonderful little
creature takes care to anchor it by fastening a pretty large stone to it
when it has nearly finished it. And as the worm anchors it when it is
too light, so it lightens it when it is too heavy, by fixing a bit of
light wood or hollow straw to it to buoy it up."



"Well, this is truly a wonderful insect. Uncle Philip."

"Truly so indeed, boys. In all these cases it uses its water-proof
cement, and if you break its house to pieces, and will patiently watch,
you may see it build another. The insect always lives with its head out
of doors, and its body inside; so that its head is firm and hard, while
its body is soft."

"Uncle Philip," said one of the larger boys, "there is one thing I have
been thinking about, as you have been talking: these little masons have
no trowel, but I believe I know of one animal that uses something like
that tool."

"Ah! What animal is it?"

"Why, I was reading the other day something about the beavers building
their dams and their houses, and the book said that they built their
houses of logs first, and then plastered them with mud, and that they
used their tails for trowels."

"I am very glad to find that you remember what you read; but I am sorry
that your book did not tell you the truth. There have been very strange
stories told about the beaver; and these stories have been taken from
one book and printed in another, so that an untrue account has gone down
for a great many years. The beaver is very ingenious, but is not quite
so much of a mason as you suppose."

"Well, Uncle Philip, will you tell us the truth about it?"

"Yes, boys, I will, so far as I know it myself. I have seen these
animals, for they were once a great deal more common in our country than
they are now; and many of the stories told of them are not true. But
before I begin, let me tell you of one book which I think does tell the
plain truth about them; and the truth is curious enough."

"What book is it, Uncle Philip?"

"It is a book written on American Natural History, by Doctor John
Godman. I knew him, boys, and a most excellent man he was. He is now
dead--and he died a Christian. The book he wrote you will find worth
reading, when you get old enough to understand it. But now for the
beaver.

"His tail is very broad and flat at the end, and might be used very well
for a trowel; but when he builds his house he does not cut down trees,
and place them first, and then fill up the cracks with mud-mortar; but
all the sticks and mud (and stones too when the beaver can get them),
are first mixed up together, and the beaver builds his house with this
from the very foundation. As soon as he has placed a lump of this stuff
upon the wall, he turns round and gives it a blow with his flat tail;
and that, boys, is all he does with his tail for a trowel. Sometimes
he slaps his tail upon the water when he is swimming; and some persons
have supposed that this was done by the king, or ruler, to call his
workmen. It may be so, but I do not believe it, because they almost
always dive as soon as they have slapped the water; and I think it is
probably a part of their motion in diving. In the autumn they cover the
outside of their houses with mud, and they walk over it as they are at
work, and their tails drag along upon it; and this I expect made persons
first suppose that they were plastering it, with the tail for a trowel.
When they are caught and kept, boys, they still keep up this fashion of
slapping with the tail; so that I rather think it is part of the nature
of the animal.

"At another time, perhaps, I will tell you more about the beaver; but it
is now late, and I must bid you good morning."

"Good day, Uncle Philip."




     _Uncle Philip talks to the Children about Animals that throw
     Dirt with a Spade; and about an Animal with a Hook; and about one
     that is a Wire-drawer._


"Boys, I have some men at work digging a small ditch for me, and I wish
to see them; will you go with me?"

"Oh, yes--very gladly, Uncle Philip; for you will be sure to tell us of
something curious before we come home."

"Come on, then: yonder are the men at work; they have been very
industrious, I see."

"But, Uncle Philip, look! There is one of the men putting a bottle to
his mouth. Is that right?"

"Yes, boys, right enough; for the bottle has nothing but molasses and
water in it; and the man is thirsty, I suppose. I would not employ him
if he brought a bottle of spirits out with him, for two reasons. In the
first place, I think that I ought not to encourage a man who gets drunk,
by employing him; for I would rather give my money to a sober man who
will not spend it for rum and brandy, but will take care of his family:
and, in the second place, a drunkard would not work faithfully without
being watched all the time. I never knew a drunkard who was really and
honestly an industrious man."

"See, Uncle Philip, how strong that man is; what a large spadeful of
dirt he throws out!"

"Yes, I see, boys: do you think that men had the first spades in the
world?"

"Ah! now you are going to tell us something about tools among animals:
that is good; we like to hear of that. What animal is it that has a
spade?"

"Oh, a very common animal indeed in some parts of our country. The
country people call it a _woodchuk_, and sometimes a _ground-hog_:
its right name is the marmot; and as there are several sorts, ours is
called the Maryland marmot, to distinguish it; but it is in New-York,
Connecticut, New-Jersey. Pennsylvania, Virginia, and some of the other
states, as well as in Maryland. This is rather a mischievous animal,
and does harm to the clover-fields; but it is in making his house that
he uses his spade."

"Then he digs his house in the ground. Uncle Philip?"

"Yes; he burrows, or digs his nest in banks of earth, or on the sides
of hills; and he has sense enough to make the passage to the inside
upwards, instead of downwards, so that water cannot run in. In digging
soft earth he uses his fore-paws to loosen the dirt, for his fore-legs
are very strong; and if the ground is hard he will use his teeth too.
As he gets farther in, he throws the dirt with his fore-paws under his
belly, and when he has a heap gathered, he balances himself on his
fore-feet, and begins to throw it out with his spades."

"What are his spades, Uncle Philip?"

"His hinder feet, boys, which are very broad, and just fit to take up
the dirt as a spade does, and to throw it from him: there is a skin
which grows between the toes of his hinder feet, so that he can spread
them out when he chooses, like a duck's foot."

"But, Uncle Philip, perhaps they are made so for the sake of _swimming_;
the duck's are."

"That is a sensible thought, boys. Always think for yourselves; and when
you make a mistake, try again: everybody is mistaken sometimes. Let it
teach you to be modest and humble; but do not be afraid to think again.
A person who is always thinking cannot _always_ think wrong. Now you
suppose the marmot's feet may be made like a duck's for swimming: let me
tell you something else, and we shall see what you will think then. The
marmot hates a rain as much as you would if you had no umbrella; he very
seldom even drinks water, and then only a little; and you cannot drive
him into a stream or pond; he is afraid of it. What do you think now?"

"Why, Uncle Philip, we think that he is no swimmer."

"Very true, boys: so his feet, then, you now think, were made for
spades, and not for paddles?"

"We do. Can you tell us any thing more about this animal, Uncle Philip?"

"Oh yes. The burrows or holes of the marmot run a great distance under
ground, and end in several chambers or rooms, according to the number
that is to live in them. They make beds in them of dry leaves, or
grass, or any thing soft and dry which they can find. They cram their
mouths full of it to carry, when they are making their nests. As soon as
cold weather begins, the animal goes into his house, and stops up the
hole on the inside; and there he stays till the warm weather has come
again.

"He is quite a thief at times. I saw one once which a gentleman had
tamed, and he played about the yard; but every thing that he could get
hold of which was fit to make his bed of, he was sure to steal, and
carry into his hole under ground. When clothes were hung out to dry
he would take them off the line, and as soon as any were missed the
washerwoman knew very well where they were. She kept a long stick with
a hook at the end of it, and with this she drew them out of the burrow.
He soon found out what it meant, and whenever she used the stick, it was
necessary first to tie him up; for he did not choose to have his bed
spoiled, and would run to the hole and try to get in, and prevent the
clothes from being drawn out. One day he stole eight pairs of stockings,
a towel, and a little girl's frock; and he carried them into his burrow
as far as six feet from the entrance.

"But, boys, as we have begun this morning upon the old subject of tools
among animals. I will tell you of something which, though not exactly
a tool, is a very useful instrument, and is found belonging to a very
common creature. Did you ever take notice of a bat?"

"Oh yes, Uncle Philip, often, as they were flying about in a room at
night, but not nearer."

"Then you never saw what I mean, I expect. Our common bat, boys, has
two very excellent hooks; one on each of what you call its wings: I
say what you call its wings, because the bat is not really a bird, but
a quadruped; that is, an animal with four feet: and when it is on the
ground, any one may see that it is a four-footed animal. If a monkey's
paw should be flattened out very much, it would be something like a
bat's paw or hand. The long finger-bones are just like the sticks of an
umbrella; there is a thin skin between them, and they stretch it out, so
that the air underneath will keep them up. When they are on the ground
all this is folded up. Their hinder feet have five toes, all small, and
ending in sharp claws. On the fore-feet there is but one finger which
the bat can use much, because the others are like umbrella-sticks, as I
told you; and the end of that one is a hook. Here is a picture, in which
you can see it plainly.



When the bat is on the ground, it is hard work for it to get along. At
first it will reach forward a little to one side the hooked end of its
fore-leg, and stick it in the ground; then it draws its hind-legs under
its belly, and raising itself up, just tumbles forward its whole body.
At the next step it stretches out the other fore-leg, and hooks it, as
it did before, and drawing itself up, tumbles forward again. The bat
does not like a level place, because it cannot raise itself in the air
from it. When they rest, they hang by the hooks; and here is a drawing
of one, resting. In the other picture which I showed you just now the
bat was flying."



"Uncle Philip, we did not know before that bats were such curious
things; we always thought that they were birds; but if these pictures
are like them, these hooks are as good as fish-hooks."

"The pictures, boys, are very much like the animal, and the hooks are
just as plain as they seem to be in the drawings. But how often do you
suppose that you have seen a bat?"

"Oh, many hundreds of times; for they are very common."

"True, boys; and yet you never knew before that they had hooks about
them. Suppose that everybody had done as you have, just passed by the
bats, without taking notice of them; I could not have told you then
what strange creatures they are, for no person would have known any
thing about them. You see, then, that men may have eyes, and yet not see
things; because they will not look for them. Use your eyes, boys; God
made them to be used."

"But, Uncle Philip, bats are such ugly things! and they can bite, too.
We are afraid of them."

"Ugly, boys! And what of that? Will you look at nothing but what is
handsome? If the bat could think and speak, I expect he would call
you very ugly. But it is foolish, boys, to be afraid of these smaller
animals. There are many creatures which might hurt you, and I would
advise you to keep out of their way: but it is silly to be afraid of
every poor little insect or animal which you see. I have seen a large
boy cry when he saw a poor little caterpillar or bug near him. Now
there are very few insects, indeed, which can or will hurt you; and a
great many of them you may watch without touching them at all. And I
think that he is a wicked and cruel boy who kills every poor bug that he
sees, merely because he is stronger than the bug. It would be a great
deal kinder and wiser in the boy to notice what the bug was doing, for
then he might learn something worth knowing."

"But, Uncle Philip, is it wrong to kill _spiders_?"

"Spiders! Why, boys, the spider is one of the very last of these little
creatures that I should wish to kill. There is not a more curious little
animal in the world, nor one that will pay a man better for watching its
motions. At some other time I will tell you all about spiders and ants,
for I have noticed them a great deal: but now, just to show you how much
you would lose if you should kill all the spiders, I will talk with you
about a tool which man uses, and which he might have learned to make
from a spider."

"Oh, do tell us; what is it?"

"The next time you go to Mr. Brown's, the silversmith, ask him to show
you his plate for drawing out wire. Tell him that I told you to ask
him, and he will show it to you. You will see a flat piece of steel with
holes made through it in regular lines, beginning with a large size, and
growing smaller and smaller until the last is very small indeed.

"Now the wire is drawn through these holes; beginning at the larger
ones, and passing every time through the next smaller one, it stretches
the wire out, until it becomes as small as the workman wishes it to be.

"The spider is a wire-drawer, too; for it has a contrivance to draw
out its threads, and make them smaller or larger, as it pleases. If
you will look at a very large spider, you can see with your naked eye,
just at the end of its body, four, and sometimes six, little knobs like
teats, with a circle around them. These are its spinners. Each one of
these small knobs, inside of that circle, is so full of little holes or
tubes, that Mr. Reaumur (of whom I told you before, you will recollect)
calculated that a place no larger than the point of a pin had a thousand
of these little holes in it. These holes are sometimes so very small,
that another gentleman,[8] who looked at spiders through a microscope
very often, thought it would take four millions of the threads which
came through those holes to make one thread as thick as a hair of his
beard. Here is a picture of a spider hanging by a thread coming out of
its spinner, or, as it is sometimes called, its spinneret."



"Then, Uncle Philip, the spider does not spin its thread all at once?"

"No, boys. Fine as you see that thread to be, it is not one single line,
but it is made of many thousands joined together. The spiders have
little bags of gum within their bodies, near their spinners, and out of
these they draw the threads: when they have come out about the tenth
part of an inch, they join them all into one with their claws; and they
can shut their spinners when they please, so as to make the threads
longer or shorter; and they can break them off, too, when they wish."

"But, Uncle Philip, we do not see why there should be so many threads to
make up one."

"I cannot exactly tell you, boys, why there are so many; but probably
to make the thread dry quicker, by letting the air touch so many parts
of it: and I expect, too, the thread is stronger, because we know that
in two pieces of cord of one size, if one is made of several smaller
cords put together, it will be stronger than the other, which was spun
all at once. The following is a picture of the spider's spinnerets, and
some of the threads as it appears through the microscope; only you must
recollect that _all_ the threads are not drawn: there are a great many
more than you see in the picture."




FOOTNOTE:

[8] Leuwenhoek.






     _Uncle Philip tells the Children of a Door, with a Hinge and
     Spring to it, made by a Spider; and shows them Pictures to let them
     see the Difference between God's Work and Man's._


"I was thinking, boys, last night, of what you said about killing the
poor spiders; and I was sorry that I did not then recollect one thing
about a spider which I could have told you, and which would have made
you like the poor little creatures better. However, I determined that
when you came to see me again, it should be the first thing I would tell
you, if you wished to hear it."

"Wish to hear it! Why, Uncle Philip, we always wish to hear you tell us
of any thing that you please to talk about. You have told us of a great
many strange things, about which we knew nothing before; and we will
thank you to tell us the story about the spider."

"Very well, boys; you shall hear it. Pray, do you not think that it is
a piece of difficult work to make a door to a house, and to make hinges
to hang it with, and to fit it so nicely that when it is done you cannot
see the joints where the door is shut?"

"Indeed it is a piece of very hard work. Uncle Philip, and it takes
the carpenter a long time to do it; and it is hard work, too, for the
blacksmith to make the hinges. But what has that to do with the story
about the spider?"

"Patience, boys, patience: you shall know presently. Never be in too
great a hurry: it is a bad plan. I have always noticed that those
persons who hurried most, went slowest in the end. Another question I
wish to ask you is this,--do you not think it was hard work for the
first man who ever made a spring, and put it on a door, to make it shut
itself again when it had been opened?"

"Yes, it was so: and the man who does it now gets well paid for it."

"Very good, boys. And now what will you say when I tell you that a poor
little spider did all these things long before man did?"

"What, Uncle Philip! A spider make a door with a hinge and a spring to
make it shut itself!"

"Yes, boys; a spider. Do you think he deserves to be killed for doing
it?"

"Oh no, no! But pray tell us all about it. Uncle Philip."

"This kind of spider, then, boys, I saw in Jamaica, and I saw its house,
too. It is called the mason-spider. The nest or house which I saw was a
tube made of very hard clay, about six inches long, and an inch across,
and was a little bent at one end. The inside of this tube was lined
all the way through with a kind of soft silky stuff, something like
silk-paper, but stronger, and it was of a yellowish colour; but the
curious part was the door. I never saw any thing which an insect had
made more strange than that. This door was round, about as large as a
quarter of a dollar, and was a little hollowed on the upper side like
a saucer; the inside of it was rounded like the outside of the saucer.
It was of the same stuff with the lining of the nest, and seemed to be
made of more than a dozen pieces of that lining, put one on the top of
another: it was shaped so, too, that the inside layers or pieces were
the broadest, and the outside ones became smaller and smaller, except
at the hinge, which was about an inch long. All the pieces in the door
were joined into this hinge, and then the hinge was joined and worked
into the lining in the tube. That made the hinge the thickest and
strongest part of the whole work. How the spider made it so, boys, I
cannot tell; but so it was, that this hinge not only was a hinge, but
was so good a spring, that whenever the door was opened it would shut
itself immediately: and when shut, it fitted so nicely that it was very
difficult to see the place of joining."

"Well, Uncle Philip, this is most wonderful! But will not the hinge wear
out at last?"

"Wonderful as it is, boys, it is all true. As to its wearing out, I
cannot tell you; but I know that a gentleman who had one, said that his
friends were very anxious to see it; and there were so many of them,
that he had to open the door and let it shut itself many hundreds of
times to satisfy them; and it did not hurt the spring at all."

"Uncle Philip, we shall not kill the poor spiders any more."

"A good resolution, boys: only let them alone, and they will not hurt
you. There is another kind of mason-spider, which I never saw, but I
have read of it. It is found in the south of France; I did not happen,
however, to meet with one while I was in that beautiful country. This
kind digs a gallery or hole under ground as much as a foot deep. She
lines it with a sort of silk glued to the walls, and makes her door,
which is round also, with many layers of mud or earth all kneaded and
bound together with some of her silk. On the outside, the door is flat
and rough, to make it appear like the dirt around it, and hide it; on
the inside it is shaped like the inside of the door of the other spider
I have told you about; and all covered with a coat of fine silk. The
threads of this silk are left long on one side, and fastened to the
upper part of the hole; and these make the hinge. There is no spring to
this; but when the spider pushes its door open and comes out, it shuts
again by its own weight. If this door is forced open by any one when
the spider is at home, she will catch hold of it and pull it in; and
sometimes even when it is half-opened; she will snatch it out of the
hand. Here is a picture which shows the nest open, and another of it
shut; and there is a drawing of the spider, too.



A gentleman says, in a book which he wrote about insects, that he once
broke one of these doors off, to see what the spider would do."

"And what did she do, Uncle Philip?"

"She made another door; but took very good care not to put any hinge
to it, for fear she should be disturbed again. But when she thought
all danger was gone, she could then put a hinge to it, you know; and
probably she did."

"Well, Uncle Philip, we thank you again for this account of the spiders,
and shall always look at them hereafter with more pleasure. Who would
have thought that we should ever find doors and hinges among such little
creatures, and these too so very well made and fitted!"

"Why, boys, I have noticed the works of God very often; and I will now
tell you one thing which I always found. It is this: a piece of the very
best work which man can make is really coarse when you compare it with
the work of God. The poor spider that we have talked about, when she
makes her door, makes it to fit perfectly; because in doing that one
thing, God made her to know perfectly how to do it. The knowledge is
God's, boys; but the work is the spider's: but in making any thing else,
except about her house, the spider knows nothing."

"Uncle Philip, you told us once that you were very fond of watching all
sorts of dumb animals, and we think now that we know the reason."

"Well, what is it?"

"It is because you see so much of God's knowledge in them; is it not?"

"Yes, my dear boys, it is. When I look at many things which man makes
or does, I think to myself, 'Now this thing is likely to have a mixture
of sense and nonsense in it; the sense is God's, and the nonsense is
man's.' But when I look at a thing made by one of the dumb creatures for
its own comfort and safety, like the spider's house, with its door and
hinge, for instance, I say to myself, 'Now here is the wisdom of God,
without any of man's nonsense.' And yet, boys, men are far wiser than
any other animal in this world."

"But, Uncle Philip, you said that a piece of man's best work was really
coarse: some things must be neat, we should think. Is the point of a
needle coarse? It does not seem so."

"Boys, you have mentioned the very thing which was in my mind when I
spoke. The point of the smallest needle is very coarse. You have heard
me talk of the microscope. I told you it was a set of glasses, so
fixed that when you looked through them, it made small things appear
very large: on some other day, perhaps, I will let you look through
my microscope for yourselves; but now, I just wish to show you the
difference between the work of God and that of man. Let us go home,
and I will show you some pictures I made, and you can see in them the
difference. Last winter, you know, was very cold, and there was a great
deal of snow: one day, while the snow was falling pretty fast, I was
obliged to go out; and as the flakes of snow fell upon the sleeve of my
coat (which was black), I thought they had a curious shape, and did not
all appear alike; so when I returned home I caught some of the flakes,
and looked at them through my microscope. They were so beautiful that I
made pictures of them; and as we have now reached home, just let me step
into my study, and I will bring them to you. Here they are, boys."



"Oh, Uncle Philip! these are very pretty; they are all so different,
too!"

"Yes, boys, I picked out different ones to draw: when I was done, I
began to look into my books to find out what others had written about
this thing; and I found that a gentleman named Dr. Hook had seen more
than a hundred different shapes and sizes of these flakes. This is God's
work, boys.

"Now I have brought you out another picture: it is the point of a very
small needle, seen through the very same microscope which showed me the
snow-flakes. Just look at it, boys. This is _man's_ work."




     _Uncle Phillip tells the Boys a Story about a Philosopher and
     his Kite.--He tells them, too, about Ants that have Awls, and build
     Cities, and Stairs, and Bridges, and many other things._


"So, boys, you have come again to see me. I am very glad of it; for as
this is a leisure day, we shall have time enough to talk: but what is
that you have there? Oh, I see now; it is a kite."

"Yes, Uncle Philip; it is a French kite that we have been making, and we
have come to ask you to go out with us this morning and see us fly it."

"Very good, boys; I will go. I am an old man now; but I remember that I
was a boy once, and loved to make a kite sail. It always makes me happy
to see boys and girls playing about in health, provided they are not
wasting time, and their play is not to do harm to anybody or any thing.
So come on; we will go out upon the green common yonder, behind the
church, and I think we shall have a grand kite-flying, for the wind is
about right.

"There, boys! up she goes! Let out the string. I think she behaves very
well; there, she is done pitching about: now she is steady; see how she
mounts. Ah, that is a very good kite."

"Uncle Philip, I was reading a book yesterday which said, 'A philosopher
once found great help from a kite.' What did it mean?"

"Do you know what a philosopher is?"

"Yes, Uncle Philip; a philosopher is the same thing with a very wise
man, is it not?"

"That is pretty near the meaning. Philosopher means a person who loves
wisdom; and such a person, you know, will always be trying to get
knowledge; and a person who is always trying to get knowledge is apt to
be a wise and learned man."

"Well, how could a kite help a man to get learning? Did he read the old
newspapers it was made of? I cannot see any other way."

"But there may be another way without your seeing it, you know. The
philosopher whom your book meant was Dr. Franklin. Did you ever hear of
him?"

"Oh, yes; he was born in Boston, and was a printer, and afterward became
a very great man."

"That is true. He was a man of excellent sense, who both read and
thought a great deal; and in the war which the people of this country
had with England to get their freedom. Dr. Franklin's sound sense was of
great use to his countrymen."

"But, Uncle Philip, how did the kite help him?"

"I will tell you. If you take a proper piece of glass, or sulphur, or
sealing-wax, or rosin, and rub it for some time, and then hold it near
to small bits of thread or paper, the thread or paper will fly towards
the glass or sealing-wax, and stick to it for a short time. That which
makes them fly to the glass and stick there, is called _electricity_.
After this was found out, men went on slowly finding out more and more,
until at last a man named Hawksbee made a large machine with a glass
barrel, which could be turned around by a handle like that which you see
to a grindstone; and with this machine (which I will show you at some
other time) he managed to get a great deal of this electricity, and it
would shoot off in sparks, which appeared like little lightning.

"And now, boys, what I am going to tell you will show you the use of a
man's eyes. Dr. Franklin knew all about the electrical machine, and was
very fond of drawing off the sparks from it, to see what he could find
out about it. And when he saw it appeared so much like lightning, and
could feel too a spark strike his hand a smart blow, he began to think
that perhaps it was exactly the same thing with the lightning which came
from the clouds; so he determined, if he could, to find out whether it
was or not. He was a great deal troubled for some time to know how he
should get down any of the lightning from the clouds; until at last,
one day, he saw a boy flying a kite; and that showed him the way. So
he took a large silk handkerchief, and stretching it upon sticks, soon
made his kite; and not long afterward, when he saw a black thunder-cloud
coming up, he took his kite and walked out of Philadelphia (where he
then lived) into the fields, and sent his kite up. He had a string like
yours, made of hemp, and to the end of this he tied an iron key, and
then fastening it to the post of a shed by a silk cord, which he tied
to the end of the hemp string, he got under the shed, and waited a long
time. Now, boys, if he had been impatient, all his work would have been
of no use. But he even waited, after a very heavy cloud had passed over
his kite without giving it any of its lightning. At last, when he was
almost ready to give it up and go home, he saw some loose threads on the
hemp string rise and stand up straight, just as he knew the electrical
machine would make them do. He directly put his knuckle to the iron key,
and off came the spark, which he knew at once was exactly like the spark
which he could get from the machine. And so, boys, he found out what
he wished to know; and this was the way in which the kite helped the
philosopher."

"Well, Uncle Philip, this is really a very pretty story about Dr.
Franklin and his kite. Was anybody with him?"

"Nobody but his son; he took him out to help him raise the kite. But,
boys, I see the other lads are walking on towards the bridge with our
kite; let us follow them, and as we go, I will tell you of an electric
_animal_."

"Oh, we shall be very glad to hear of him."

"Listen, then. There is a kind of eel, which when it is touched will
give a very hard blow, just like an electric shock, to the person who
touches it."

"Is there any spark, Uncle Philip?"

"No, boys; there is no spark,--but the blow is tremendous. I remember
reading of one of these fish which was caught in a net, and a foolish
sailor would take it up, though he was told it would hurt him. The fish
shocked him so violently that he fell down in a fit, and it was a long
time before he came to his senses; and his story was, that the moment he
touched the fish, 'the cold ran swiftly up his arm into his body, and
pierced him to the heart.' The fish has this power to defend itself, and
to kill other fish for food."

"But, Uncle Philip, how do they ever manage to catch them alive? I
should think they would be shocked to death."

"I will tell you. A very sensible traveller and learned man[9] gives an
account of the manner in which they catch them, by a way called, by the
South American Indians, 'fishing with horses.'"

"Fishing with horses! What does that mean?"

"The savannas, or large open plains, in South America have a great many
wild horses and mules running over them. M. Humboldt says that the
Indians caught about thirty of these, and drove them into the pond where
the electrical eels were. The horses made a great noise, and stirred up
the mud with their hoofs, and this brought up the eels from the bottom
in a great rage. They were very large, and looked more like water-snakes
than like eels; and rising to the top of the water, they crowded under
the bellies of the horses and mules, and began to shock them. The poor
horses would try to get out of the pond; but the Indians, with spears
and long reeds, would stand around to hinder them from coming out: some
of them, too, would climb upon the trees around the banks, and get out
upon the branches which were over the pond, and by crying out aloud,
and using their long reeds, kept the horses in the pond. The eels would
continue to shock them with tremendous blows, and a great many of the
poor creatures were either stunned or killed, and would sink. Those not
killed would pant and raise their heads, while their eyes would show
their pain, and they would try to get out. The Indians still drove them
back, but some few escaped, and reached the shore, stumbling at every
step, and would stretch themselves on the bank, tired out, and benumbed
in their limbs by the shocks they had received. M. Humboldt says that in
less than five minutes after the fight began, two horses were drowned;
and he thought that the end of it would be, that every horse which did
not get out of the water would be killed: but at last the eels became
tired, and began to disperse. This is just what the Indians wish. They
know that the eels have spent so much of their electrical power that
they will need a long rest. It takes them a great while to get back
their strength; so that if, the next day after such a fight, you send in
more horses, they cannot kill one. When the eels, tired out in this way,
begin to separate, they will swim to the edge of the pond, and there the
Indians take them with small harpoons fastened to long cords. When the
cords are dry, the Indian feels no shock in raising the eel out of the
water. In this way M. Humboldt got five, all alive, and very little
hurt. But here we are at the bridge."

"Uncle Philip, suppose we sit down under the shade of this tree, and
rest."

"I am willing, boys; but take care of the damp ground: there is an old
piece of timber that the men have taken out of the bridge, for I see
they have been mending it; we will sit on that."

"But, Uncle Philip, what shall we do with the kite? shall we draw it
down?"

"Do with it! Why, just tie the end of your string to that root, and it
will take care of itself in this wind."

"What a monstrous piece of timber this is. Uncle Philip! It must have
taken a great many men to move it; and see--there are some larger ones
still in the bridge. It must be a difficult work to build a bridge."

"Yes, it is so: but there are bridges much harder to build than our
little wooden one here. Some are built of stone, and it takes years to
finish them. None but a good workman can plan and build a good stone
bridge: but I know a little fellow that can make as good a bridge as
anybody; and yet no man ever taught him the trade."

"Ah! now we know what is coming. You are going to tell us of a dumb
animal that can make a bridge."

"Yes, I am: and a small animal it is, too, for it is an ant."

"What sort of an ant is it?"

"It is called the white ant; and as there is a great deal that is very
curious about this insect. I think that I had better tell you all about
it at once."

"Pray do, Uncle Philip; you know you promised to tell us about ants."

"True, boys; and I like to keep my promises. In my story about these
ants, I think, if you attend, you will find more tools; and besides
that, you will hear of a great many things which man makes, and which
show matters quite as strange as any of which I have yet told you."

"What are they, Uncle Philip?"

"They are the building of something like a city, and bridges, and
stairs, and roads, and tunnels under ground, and--"

"Oh, let us hear--let us hear! We have heard nothing equal to this yet."

"Well, then, I begin by telling you that these insects are very common
in Africa, and in the East Indies, and are troublesome enough, for they
eat almost every thing but metal and glass. They love wood, though,
better than any thing else; and they are so numerous that they destroy
it wonderfully fast. They are very cunning, too; they never eat the
outside of the wood first, but will work upon the inside, so as to leave
the outer part not thicker than a piece of pasteboard. But the curious
things I meant to tell you were about their city; so I will go on to
that. When they first begin to build you will see little hills shaped
like a sugar-loaf, and rising up above the ground about a foot, or a
little more. Here is a picture of them.



The highest of these little hills is always in the middle; and they go
on building more and more, and making them all higher, still keeping
the tallest one in the centre. When they have made them as high as
they wish, then they fill in the spaces between the tops of all these
sugar-loaf hills, so as to make one roof over all. Here is a picture of
one finished.



After this is done, they take down nearly all of the little sugar-loaf
hills inside; for they only wanted them for a scaffold to support the
top while they were building it."

"Uncle Philip, what is all this built of?"

"It is built of clay, which the ant makes almost as hard as stone."

"Are they strong, Uncle Philip?

"So strong, boys, that five men may stand on them; and it is a common
thing for the wild bulls to get upon them and look out, while the rest
of the herd are feeding below."

"Why, how high are they?"

"Oh, of different heights; some as many as five or six feet, others are
twelve, and the largest are as high as twenty feet, and would easily
hold a dozen men."

"And how large are the ants, Uncle Philip?"

"Not above a quarter of an inch high as they stand. Now, boys, just
compare the size of one of these nests with the size of the ant that
made it; and it is quite as large in proportion as the city of New-York
is when compared to a man's size; yes, it is a great deal larger in
proportion. These nests are sometimes five hundred times as high as the
ants which build them: now suppose that men built their houses five
hundred times as high as themselves, and as large at the foundation in
proportion to their height, what monstrous buildings they would be! But
let me go on. This outside shell, which I have been telling you how they
make, is nothing but the wall of the city; the buildings are all inside
of that."

"But, Uncle Philip, there is one thing I have been thinking of which
would make it more like a city still. But I hardly think they can have
that."

"What is it?"

"Why in a city, you know, where there are a great many people, there are
a great many trades: some do one thing and some do another to get money."

"Yes, that is true; and I am glad that you mentioned it, because it
reminds me of one thing I intended to tell you about these ants. Now,
it would not be reasonable, you know, to expect the ants to have many
different kinds of business to do, as the people in New-York have; but
still, boys, they are not all alike, and they do have work of different
kinds. There are in the city of the white ants a king and a queen, and
soldiers, and labourers, or workmen, and all these are different. Here
are pictures which will show them all to you. This is the king.



At first he has four wings, but soon loses them. He never grows any
larger after he loses them. The king may be known by his having two
large eyes. Here is the queen. She is the mother of the whole city;
and you see what a large body she has. It is full of eggs, and eighty
thousand will come from her in twenty-four hours. She also has two eyes.



"Here is a soldier: he has a large head, armed with two hooks, shaped
like a crooked awl, and very sharp.



"For every one of these soldiers there are about one hundred labourers.
The soldiers do the fighting; and though they are perfectly blind, they
fight well, and are very brave. The following is a picture, too, of the
soldiers' awls, seen through the microscope, to show you how sharp they
are.


"And here is a picture of the labourer; the largest part of the city is
made up of the labourers,--which shows us, I think, boys, that there is
more need of working than there is of fighting.


This class, like the soldiers, is blind, and scarcely ever go into the
open air; their work is mostly under ground or in the inside of wood.
Both, however, do come out when their city is attacked and broken: but I
will tell you of that presently."


FOOTNOTE:

[9] M. Humboldt.






     _Uncle Philip tells the Children more about the White Ants._


"Now, boys, as I have told you about the kinds of different work which
these ants do, we will go on, and I will tell you about the inside
of the city. The first thing to be done is to build a house for the
king and queen. This is the first house built in the city, and always
stands in the centre, directly under the point of the roof or top of
the outside wall. It is built nearly on a level with the ground, and is
shaped very much like a long oven, or the half of an egg split through
the long way. The floor is exactly level, and about an inch thick; the
roof is about the same thickness. The doors are on a level with the
floor, and just large enough to let one of the labourers go in."

"Why, Uncle Philip, how do the king and queen ever get out then."

"They never do get out, boys; they live in that house always, and they
are not the first kings and queens who have found that a palace is
sometimes a prison. Just around this house of the king and queen are
other houses built of clay, arched at the top, and of different shapes.
These are for the servants or labouring ants, who remove the eggs of
the queen as fast as she discharges them. The soldiers also live in
these houses. Next to these are the magazines, that is, the houses where
they keep their food, such as dry juices of trees and gums; and mixed
up with these are the nurseries. These are made by the labourers, and
are different from all the other buildings, for they are made of wood
gnawed or broken into fine threads, and joined together with some kind
of gum, and around each of them there is a case of clay. These nurseries
are to carry the eggs into for the young ants to be hatched. Between
all these different houses or parts there are thousands of galleries
or ways, which run among them and separate them from each other, and
these may be called the streets of the city. These streets run in all
directions, and extend as far as the outside wall; and houses are built
on top of houses, and streets run over streets, until they reach up
as high as two-thirds of the inside wall. But under the top of their
outside case they always leave a large open place that is never filled
up with houses. And around this space they will build three or four
large arches, sometimes two or three feet high; these I suppose are to
prevent the houses from falling in towards the centre of the city, which
is an open space, and on the other side they are fastened to the outside
walls, so that these houses are very firm."

"And what is all this made of, Uncle Philip?"

"All of clay, except the nurseries, which I told you were made of wood
and gum. Over the house of the king and queen there is a sort of flat
floor, some distance above it, with nurseries and magazines between the
under side of it and the top of the queen's house. This floor will not
let the water through it, so as to wet the palace where the king and
queen live, but will turn it off into large trenches or gutters under
ground, of which I will speak directly. The bridge I told you of they
build from this floor in the open space, directly under the top or dome
of the outside wall; it rises up and is joined to some hole in the side
wall of the houses above it."

"How large is it, Uncle Philip?"

"Why, sometimes it is half an inch broad, a quarter of an inch thick,
and ten inches long; all made of clay, so that it is very strange how
they manage to join it to the wall without its falling down by its own
weight while they were building it."

"And what do you suppose this bridge is for, Uncle Philip?"

"Why, I think there can be no doubt what it is for. When the city has
been growing for some time, some of the nurseries will be very high up
above the queen's house; but the labourers have to carry her eggs into
them, no matter how far off they may be. If they carry them through all
the streets, they will have to walk as many as fifteen or twenty feet,
for it would be five or six feet in a perfectly straight line, and these
streets are very crooked; but if they make a bridge in the open space
in the centre, they can then go from the queen's house over the bridge,
and get to the upper nurseries without travelling more than two feet. So
they made the bridge to shorten the way, to be sure."

"This is very wonderful: but you said something about large trenches or
gutters underground; what are they, Uncle Philip?"

"These galleries lead from the city under ground, and are as large as
the bore of a large cannon; they are thirteen inches across, and more
than a hundred yards long. I have already told you that the labourers
never come out into the light, when they can help it; and these
underground ways are the great roads to the city, to fetch in clay, or
wood, or water, or provisions: and now I will tell you another thing
which shows a great deal of sense. As some of their houses are very high
up, you know they would find it very hard to climb up through all the
streets with a heavy load in a straight line; so when these large ways
underground reach the outside wall, they just come through and keep on
winding around the inside of it like a corkscrew all the way to the top;
and there are other galleries opening from it at different places into
the city. One thing has been noticed about these ants; they can scarcely
climb at all up a perpendicular wall. Therefore on the upright side of
any part of the city you may see a road made, standing out from the wall
like a ledge; it is flat on the top, and half an inch wide, and goes
up gradually like a stair-case, or like a road cut out on the side of a
mountain.

"Here is a picture of one of their cities cut straight down through the
middle. At the bottom, in the centre, is the queen's house; over it is a
floor, and the two crooked things you see rising up from the floor, are
bridges."



"But, Uncle Philip, you said you would tell us about the soldiers and
labourers coming out when the city is attacked."

"Yes, I did. As soon as a hole is made in the outside wall, you will
see a soldier run out, and walk about as if to look around; but as he
is blind, it cannot be to see what the danger is. He may have some way
though of finding out without seeing. Presently he will go in, as if
to tell the others, and then out pour the soldiers in great numbers,
as fast as the hole will let them; and just as long as you strike the
outside wall, they will continue to rush out. They seem to be in a
terrible passion. They are in such a hurry that sometimes they slip, and
roll down the outside of the hill; but they jump up again instantly,
and begin to bite every thing they run against, for they are blind and
cannot tell a friend from an enemy."

"Do they bite hard, Uncle Philip?"

"Very hard indeed. They make their hooked jaws, which are like awls, you
know, meet at every bite; and if it should happen to be a man's leg they
get hold of, you would see upon his stocking a spot of blood an inch
long. At every bite too you may hear their jaws snapping together and
making quite a noise. Some of them too (perhaps they are the officers)
are constantly beating with their awls upon the outside wall, and make a
sound something quicker and sharper than the ticking of a watch. You may
hear it at a distance of three or four feet. When these biters lay hold,
nothing will make them let go; you must tear them away by pieces. After
you stop striking the wall, in about half an hour they seem to get over
their rage and go back into the city, and then out come the labourers.
While the noise continues you will not see one of them; they all fled
at the first appearance of danger. But now they come, each one with a
bundle of mortar in his mouth, ready made; and they stick it on the hole
so fast, and with such order, that though thousands and thousands are at
work they never interrupt each other. And while the labourers are busy,
if you look you may commonly see a soldier or two walking about; but
they never touch the mortar, nor help in any way to mend the hole. One
of these soldiers always stands near the spot where the labourers are at
work, and every now and then turns slowly around, and frequently lifts
up his head, and with his awls beats upon the building, and makes a
sort of hissing noise. As soon as that is done you may hear a loud hiss
from all the labourers, both on the outside of the wall and from the
inside of the city, and then the labourers run faster, and work as quick
again. If you attack the nest again, away run all the labourers as fast
as their legs will carry them, and out pour the soldiers as before; and
the same thing is always seen upon every attack, of soldiers to fight
and labourers to work."

"Well, Uncle Philip, this is a very strange story; much more interesting
than any we have yet heard."

"I thought it would please you, boys; but there are still stranger
things among animals, and perhaps you will say so when you know more.

"But it is now time to return home; so take in the kite and let us be
going."


FOOTNOTE:

[10] Mr. Huber the younger.






     _Uncle Philip tells the Children about some other Ants, that
     are very good Masons, and build Walls and Ceilings; and a Story
     about a very sensible Ant, which seemed to think a little._


"Good morning, good morning, Uncle Philip; we have been so much
delighted with the stories about the white ants, that we hope you have
more of the same kind to tell us."

"Why, as to that matter, boys, I can tell you much more about ants, for
there are many kinds of them; but I am not sure that I can show you any
of the _tools_ with which they work, though a large portion of their
work is like that of man; and they have, too, several customs which our
fellow-creatures have. I can tell you, however, of several other animals
which do use tools shaped like those used by men, if you would rather
hear of them."

"If you please, Uncle Philip, we will hear of them at another time; but
now we would rather have you tell us of the other kinds of ants."

"Oh, very well, boys; it shall be as you wish. All that I desire is to
instruct and amuse you, and I am sure that the ants can furnish a good
lesson to us. I shall begin with the mason ants. They always build their
nests either of clay which is damp, and dug from the inside of their
city under ground, or which has been made wet by the rain; and a part of
their building is always above the ground, so that you can easily see
it. There is no fixed rule for the ants to build by. Their cities are
not all alike in the inside. Sometimes the walls are larger and coarser,
and the ways and galleries are higher, than at other times. The rooms,
too, are different in shape and size, so that this industrious little
insect seems to have sense enough to work in the best way according to
circumstances. There is only one general rule which they seem to have,
and that is always to build in a number of different stories, one above
the other. If you examine one of these stories you may see a number
of large places or halls, some smaller rooms, and some long galleries
which serve as passage-ways. The tops of these large halls are covered
with an arched ceiling, and this ceiling is held up, sometimes by little
columns, sometimes by very thin walls, or by props built against the
side walls, just like buttresses. There are also chambers which have but
one door, which opens into the lower story, and large open places in the
centre of the nest something like a cross road, and all these little
galleries or streets come into that open place."

"Any bridges, Uncle Philip?"

"No, boys; no bridges among these ants, so far as I know. There will
sometimes be as many as twenty stories above ground in the ant-hill, and
as many below. The best time to see these little fellows at work is in a
gentle shower of rain, or directly after."

"Why do they work in the rain, Uncle Philip?"

"I suppose, boys, it is because the earth is then better for them; and
one thing that has been noticed about their work is, that the rain, when
it is not too violent, seems to make it solid, for these ants have no
gum or glue about them like some other insects, to make the earth stick
together. As soon as the rain begins, if you watch the brown ants, you
may see them come out of the ground in great numbers; and then running
in again, they will soon return, each one with a little piece of dirt
in his mouth, which he puts down upon the roof of the nest. A gentleman
who watched them very closely[10] says, that at first he could not think
what this was done for, but at last he saw little walls begin to rise up
with spaces left between them. In some places pillars were begun, placed
at regular distances, and he knew that these were to support ceilings;
so he found out that they were going to build another story to their
house, and they were laying the foundations."

"How I should have liked to see them. Uncle Philip. I would not have
cared for the rain."

"Ah, I see you are fit to be a naturalist. You know what that word
means, do you not?"

"It means, Uncle Philip, a man who loves to study about the animals and
insects, does it not?"

"It means a man or a woman either, boys, who loves to study the things
in nature no matter whether they are animals, or stones, or grass, or
flowers, or any of the things which God has made. Mark, boys, I said
to study the things, and you said to study _about_ the things. Now a
person may read a great deal that is interesting and true about all
these things in books; and it is very well to do so; but I think that
the real naturalist will never be satisfied with books only; he will
be looking to see things for himself. And I said a woman might be a
naturalist, because some ladies have been fond of natural history, and
have proved themselves to be very good naturalists. But let us go back
to the ants. Mr. Huber, in the account which he gives of his having
watched these little workmen, never thought of telling us whether he
got wet or not, because he was too busy to think or care much about it.
He had an opportunity of seeing what he might never see again, and a
little rain was not to spoil it. He says that each ant, as it brought
out its little lump of dirt, would place it on the spot where it wished
it to be, and press against it with its teeth, so as to make it fit
closely. It then rubbed its feelers all over it, and after that pressed
upon it lightly with its fore-feet. The walls went on very rapidly, and
it often happened that two little walls, which were to make a passage
or gallery, would be raised opposite and at a small distance from each
other. When they were about a quarter of an inch high, the ants would
set to work and cover them with an arched ceiling. After they had raised
all the walls as high as they wished, on the inside of each wall at the
top they began to put in pieces of wet dirt almost level, and in such a
way as to make a ledge; and by joining on more dirt to it, it would meet
the ledge made from the opposite wall so as to make a roof: these roofs
over the galleries were about a quarter of an inch across. The ceilings
over the large halls were sometimes as much as two inches in breadth,
and to support these they raised pillars; and beginning in the corner
where two walls joined, they would commence the ceiling with a ledge,
while from the top of each pillar they would also build out a layer of
earth a little rounded on the top; these they continued to add to until
all met and made a complete cover for the hall."

"I wonder it did not fall, Uncle Philip, before they could join it
together."

"Mr. Huber says that he thought several times it would fall, from the
rain which was dropping upon it all the time; but he found that the
pieces held together, and that the rain, instead of hurting it, only
made it more solid. All that it wants, when the ants have done, is a
little heat from the sun to bake it hard, and then it appears like a
piece of solid dirt. Sometimes, if the rain be violent, the apartments
will be destroyed, especially if the arches are not built strongly; and
when this happens, the little creatures go to work very patiently and
rebuild them."

"And how long, Uncle Philip, did it take the ants to put another story
on their house?"

"Between seven and eight hours; and they had hardly finished one before
they began another, but they had not time to finish it, for the rain
stopped before they had built much: however, they kept on, taking
advantage of the wet earth; but a cold drying wind soon sprang up, and
the earth would not stick; so they stopped: but what do you think they
did with the new story which they had not time to finish?"

"What _did_ they do, Uncle Philip?"

"Pulled every part of it to pieces, and scattered the dirt here and
there over the roof of the story which they had finished.

"I will tell you another story about these ants, boys, which I think is
most wonderful, because it appears so much like reason. These insects
all seem to work separately,--I mean without attending to the work of
others: of course sometimes the work done by different ants on opposite
sides of the same gallery or hall will not suit: one wall will be higher
than the other, so that the ceilings will not meet. Mr. Huber saw just
such a case; the ceiling which was begun from one wall would just have
reached the other wall about half-way up; and while he was wondering
how the ants would cure the fault, one of them came, and looking at the
work, seemed to know that it was wrong, and immediately began by taking
down the ceiling from the lower wall; he then raised it to the same
height with the opposite wall, and made a new ceiling in Mr. Huber's
presence with the pieces of the old one."

"Uncle Philip, if that ant did not know how to think, I am mistaken."

"I must confess, boys, it does seem very much like thinking; and if it
was not thinking, we must at any rate own that it was something which,
_in this case_, did quite as well; for no thought of man could have hit
upon a better plan. But if the ant knew how to think as a man does, do
you suppose it would ever have made the mistake? Would not the workmen
have all agreed beforehand what they were to do, and how it should be
done, so that there might be no need of pulling down any of the work
because it would not suit? I think that this story, boys, while it shows
us something like reason in _one_ particular instance, shows us also
that _in general_ the ant has not reason like ours. But I am tired now,
and can tell you no more this morning. When you come again I shall be
ready to talk with you about some other kinds of ants. But before you
go, tell me--can any of you inform me what the Bible says about the ant?"

"Oh yes, Uncle Philip: it says, 'Go to the ant, thou sluggard, consider
her ways, and be wise.'"

"Well, another question. Have you any lessons to say when you go into
school on Monday?"

"Yes, Uncle Philip; we have."

"Have you learned them, boys?"

"No, sir."

"Then remember what the Bible says to the sluggard, and go and learn
them at once. Good-by, children."

"Good-by, Uncle Philip: we will learn our lessons."






     _Uncle Philip tells the Boys about Ants that go to War and
     fight Battles; and about some that are Thieves, and have Slaves._


"Well, my lads, how do you do to-day?"

"Very well, Uncle Philip, we thank you. And we wish to let you know that
we kept our promise to learn our lessons. Our teacher was very well
satisfied with every one of us."

"That is well, boys. I am truly glad to hear this from you: and I make
no doubt that you also felt a great deal happier than you would have
done had you neglected to learn your lessons. Did you not?"

"Oh yes, Uncle Philip, much happier; and far more cheerful and
good-natured."

"Such are apt to be the feelings, boys, of those who have done their
_duty_. I am verily persuaded that there is no such thing as real, solid
happiness in this world, but in that man who acts from a sense of duty.
His is true peace, because it is 'the peace of God.' I do not say, boys,
that a man, even when he does his duty, _always_ feels comfortable or
happy _at once_; but he will be more apt to feel so than if he did not
do his duty: and I do say that no man who does not act from a sense of
duty, is likely to feel any thing like happiness very often or very
long."

"Then, Uncle Philip, a man who wishes to be happy will try in the first
place to find out what his duty is."

"To be sure, he will; and he need not try very long either, if he really
wishes to know it. The will of God, boys, is at the bottom of all our
duties; and an honest man, yes, or boy either, can commonly tell what
God will think to be right or wrong in his conduct. You know where a
great many of our duties are very plainly written down for us; do you
not?"

"Oh yes, sir; in the New Testament, which tells us of what our Saviour
said and did."

"True. And what our Saviour commanded, boys, God commanded; for He is
God. But besides this, when it is not exactly written down in the New
Testament what we should do, still if we will think, we shall very often
find out what to do, from what is written."

"Uncle Philip, we almost always know what you mean; but now, we do not
quite understand you."

"Thank you, boys, for telling me that you do not know what I mean:
always tell any person who is trying to teach you something, when you
do not understand what is said to you. Now I will try to make what I
said plainer to you. The New Testament does not say any thing about your
going to school; does it?"

"No, sir."

"Who sends you to school, boys, and pays your teachers for instructing
you?"

"Our parents, Uncle Philip."

"Very well. Now suppose that John Carter here, should wish, instead of
going to school, to do, what I am very sure he never did do: suppose he
should determine to play the truant. The Bible does not say a boy shall
not play the truant, does it?"

"No, Uncle Philip."

"But if John Carter should play the truant, he would, in doing so,
disobey what God has commanded in the Bible just as much as if the Bible
did say 'A boy shall not play the truant;' for the Bible does say,
'_Children obey your parents_,' and he could not be a truant without
disobeying his parents, who bade him go to school."

"Uncle Philip, we understand you very well now."

"There is another thing I wish you to understand, boys. John Carter, as
you see, would not only disobey his parents, which is wicked, but he
would also commit a _sin_ against God. That is always the thing to look
at first. When we are going to do something that we are not very sure
is right, we should always stop to ask ourselves whether God will be
pleased with it. But I have said enough to you about our duty for this
time. Now for the ants I promised to tell you of. And the first sort I
shall mention are great fighters."

"Fighters, Uncle Philip! What do they fight about?"

"About trifles, boys, just as men do. They have terrible wars, and
will dispute with and kill each other for a few inches of dirt, when
certainly this world is large enough for them all. But animals wiser
than ants, boys, act in the same foolish way. Men sometimes go to war
and kill each other to determine who shall have a river, or a small
town, or a fort, or some little spot of ground; while the poor creatures
who do the fighting, and get all the wounds, and lose their lives, had
they been let alone, would have lived on in peace, and never cared a
straw who had the miserable little spot they fight for. But let me go
on with the account of these ants. In the forests, where the fallow
ants live, you may see these wars. The battle will be between the ants
of different hills, but they are all ants of the same sort. Thousands
and thousands of them will meet on the ground between their hills, and
the battle begins by two ants, who seize each other by the claws (or
_mandibles_, as they are called), and rising up on their hind-legs,
they bring their bodies near together, and spirt a sort of venomous or
poisonous juice upon each other. These will be followed by thousands of
others on both sides, who seize each other in the same way, and fight
in pairs--ant to ant. Sometimes they will get so wedged together that
they fall down upon their sides, but they do not let go on that account;
they keep on fighting in the dust until they rise on their feet again.
Sometimes, too, a third ant will come in, and joining whichever of
them belongs to his nest, the two will begin to drag the third, until
some of his friends come to his help; and in this way, others joining
on both sides, they will form strings of six, or eight, or ten on a
side, pulling with all their strength. And while some are fighting,
you will see others leading off prisoners towards their hills, while
the prisoners are trying to escape. The field of battle is not more,
perhaps, than three feet square; multitudes of dead ants covered with
venom may be seen upon it, and there is a very strong scent which comes
from it. When night comes they go off to their hills. Before dawn the
next day they are at it again in still larger numbers, and they fight
with greater fury than before, until at last one side or the other
gives way. They are so busy that even if you stand near them they take
no notice of you, and not one stops fighting, or crawls up your legs."

"Do all of them that belong to the hill go out to fight, Uncle Philip?"

"No; near the hills all is peace and order, and work seems to be going
on as usual. Only on the side next to the battle, crowds may be seen
running backwards and forwards from both hills; some as messengers, I
suppose, and some to fight, or carry back prisoners."

"But, Uncle Philip, you said that these ants were all of one sort; how
then do they know one another so as to tell which party each one belongs
to? I should think that sometimes they would make a mistake, and fight a
friend instead of an enemy."

"This, boys, is one of the most wonderful things concerning them. They
are alike in form, and size, and weapons, and strength; and sometimes
it happens that they do make a mistake, but it is very seldom; and when
they do, Mr. Huber, who watched one of their battles, says that they
find it out directly, and caress each other with their feelers, and
make up the difficulty at once.

"Are you tired, boys, or do you wish to hear more?"

"Oh, let us hear more, by all means: we are not at all tired."

"I will then tell you of another kind of ants called legionary ants,
and sometimes amazons; but I am sorry to say that they are unlike other
ants, for they are lazy; and yet they live very comfortably."

"How is that, Uncle Philip? Can they be comfortable without working?"

"Yes, boys, if they can get others to work for them; and these have
their work mostly done by their slaves."

"By their slaves! what are their slaves, and where did they get them?"

"As to your first question, boys, their slaves are ants of another kind;
as to the second question--where they get them--they _stole_ them when
they were young."

"Why you surprise us, Uncle Philip."

"I dare say I do. There are persons much older than you are who have
never attended at all to the doings of insects, who would be very much
astonished by the history of the legionary ants; and probably would
laugh at the whole account as an idle story; and yet it is all true,
and those who have read and seen, know it to be true; and they know,
too, that to deny it shows nothing but ignorance. However, I always let
such persons alone. I can do them no good; for they are apt to be very
conceited, and will not be convinced. And now for the legionary ant.
This is a fighting ant, as well as the last I mentioned; and it actually
steals the young of another kind, rears them, and puts all the work on
them, so as to be idle itself. This curious fact was first found out
by Mr. Huber; another gentleman, named Latreille, afterward saw the
same thing; and now a great many naturalists know it, because they have
sought for and seen it. The ant which it steals is of a dark ash colour;
the legionary is of light colour. The dark-coloured ant is now called
the negro ant, and is a very industrious, peaceable insect, without any
sting. The legionary is a strong, brave ant, with a sting, but very
lazy. I shall relate to you the account which Mr. Huber gives of the
legionary. He was walking near the city of Geneva during an afternoon
in the summer of 1804, when he saw quite an army of these legionary
ants crossing the road; they passed through a thick hedge, entered a
pasture, and kept on through the grass without separating; and Mr. Huber
followed them until he saw them come near a nest of negro ants. Some of
these negro ants seemed to be guarding the holes into their nest; but as
soon as they saw the legionaries, they, with a great many more from the
inside of the nest, attacked the thieves. The legionary ants, however,
were too powerful for them, and after a short but severe fight they
conquered the negroes, who ran into the lower part of their nests. The
legionaries then mounted their ant-hill, some entered it by the holes
already made, and others began with their teeth to break other holes,
so that all the army might get into the hill. They went in and remained
but a few minutes, when they came out, each one having in his mouth a
young negro ant, and off they scampered, without any order among them,
every one going his own way, until Mr. Huber lost sight of them. The
next day he set out to go back and examine further, and on his way he
found a large ant-hill full of legionaries, and saw an army start from
it, which he followed. They made the attack as before, and each one
came off with a young negro ant in his mouth, and on going back to their
hill, from which Mr. Huber saw them start, he had an opportunity of
seeing them return, and was very much surprised to find all around the
nest of the legionaries a great many full-grown negro ants. At first he
thought that perhaps they had gone there to fight the legionaries, but
he soon saw that instead of fighting, the negro ants went out to meet
the legionaries returning, and would caress them, and give them food,
and finally take the young negro ants and carry them within the nest."

"But, Uncle Philip, why do the legionaries always take the young ones?"

"Because, boys, they know, I suppose, that the old ants would never be
satisfied to remove from their homes; and therefore they take the young.
These legionaries could work if they would, I think, but they depend
upon the negro ants for house and home, and food too; and nothing can be
more faithful and affectionate than these poor slaves are. To try them,
Mr. Huber took thirty of the legionaries, and put them with some of
the larvæ, or grubs of their own young, into a glass box with a thick
coat of earth at the bottom of it, and he put honey also in the box,
that they might not want food. At first the legionaries paid a little
attention to their young; but they soon stopped; and they neither tried
to make a house, nor took any food, so that in two days half of them
died. Mr. Huber then put in _one_ negro ant, and this little creature
set to work alone, made a chamber of the earth in the box, gathered the
young together, fed the old, and put every thing into complete order.

"At another time Mr. Huber broke one of the ant-hills of these
legionaries, to see how they would act, and in doing it, he, of course,
altered their galleries and chambers. The legionaries seemed to be
lost, and went wandering about, without knowing where to go; but the
negro ants appeared to understand very well where they were: they could
find such of the galleries as were not broken, and would take up the
legionaries in their mouths and carry them into them. If the negro
sometimes seemed for a short time to be lost, and not to know where it
was, it laid down its master, ran round and examined until it knew, and
then would come back, and pick up the legionary ant, and carry it off.
In one case Mr. Huber saw that the entrance to a gallery was stopped up
by a small lump of earth; the negro ant laid his master down, took away
the piece of earth, and then carried him in."

"Why, these poor negro ants are sensible as well as faithful, Uncle
Philip."

"Yes, boys, they are so; and I think it is likely that both kinds depend
in some way upon each other, but we have not yet found all about it. I
expect that in some things the legionary does for the negro ant what it
could not do for itself. God has made them necessary to each other, and
this is the reason they live together so kindly.

"But I think it is time now to leave the ants, and go back to our
business of seeking for something like man's inventions and tools among
the lower animals. Perhaps hereafter I may tell you more about ants; but
at present I must bid you good morning."

"Good morning, Uncle Philip."






     _Uncle Philip and the Boys make a Voyage, and he tells them
     of an Animal that makes itself into a Ship; and of an Insect that
     builds a Boat, and floats about in a Canoe; and of another that
     pumps Water, and wears a Mask; and of a Spider that builds a Raft,
     and floats upon it._


"Well, boys, I have a most delightful plan for us to-day."

"What is it, what is it, Uncle Philip?"

"Why, I have a little voyage to make, and my boat is on the river just
above the mill. I have the men there to row it, and every thing is
ready."

"Oh! dear Uncle Philip, this is charming! we shall be so happy!
But--but--"

"But what, boys?"

"Why, Uncle Philip, we have not asked leave at home. Now our parents are
very happy to have us visit you, and say that they are very much obliged
to you for telling us so many things; but they have told us, too, never
to get into a boat without asking their permission first. Uncle Philip,
we are sure they will let us go, if they know that you are going; only
let us run home and ask them."

"My dear boys, I am very much pleased with your conduct; and, what
is far better, my children, God is pleased; for he has commanded you
to honour your father and mother: but you need not go home to ask
permission, for you may depend upon it I would not take one of you upon
the water without the consent of your parents: so I went yesterday,
while you were all at school, and have got permission from your friends
for every one of you to go--only I asked them to tell you nothing about
it."

"Oh dear, Uncle Philip, you are so very, very good: thank you, thank
you, a thousand times over."

"Once is enough, boys. There is but one Being who deserves a thousand
thanks, and he, in truth, deserves a great many more than a thousand;
but I fear that from a great many he is just the Being who gets the
fewest,--it is our Heavenly Father: but come on, boys, let us be going
to the boat. We shall soon reach her. Ah, yonder she is; I see her
through the trees."

"Oh, what a beauty she is, Uncle Philip, with her green sides and white
belt near the top. We shall have a charming voyage."

"Come, then; get in, my little sailors, and seat yourselves yonder in
the stern. Now we are all ready; shove off, men, and use your oars. I
will take care of the helm."

"Oh, Uncle Philip, how smoothly we go along! this is charming. Is this
the way a ship goes, Uncle Philip?"

"A ship floats, boys, just as the boat does; but she is not rowed with
oars; she has sails, and the wind blowing upon them sends her along."

"Uncle Philip, there are no ships among animals, are there?"

"Oh no; but there is a very curious little animal which lives in the
water, and manages to rig out something like a ship, and to sail."

"What is it, Uncle Philip? pray let us hear of it."

"It is called the nautilus, and I saw a great many of them in the
Mediterranean sea. The shell is nearly round, and six or eight inches
across, not much thicker than paper, and of a whitish colour: it
has, too, a keel or ridge upon each side. When it wishes to sail, it
stretches upwards two of its legs: these have a very thin skin at the
end, which the nautilus spreads out for sails, and the other legs hang
over on each side of the shell for oars or rudders. When the sea is
calm, a great many of them may be seen playing about; but as soon as a
storm arises, or they are disturbed, they take in their sails and sink
to the bottom. But, boys, the most curious boat that I know, made by one
of the dumb creatures, is the work of the little insect that played the
doctor the other day, and stuck his lancet into us. Do you remember what
insect that was?"

"Oh yes, very well, Uncle Philip, it was the gnat."

"True, boys, it was the gnat, which is an insect that spends the first
part of its life in the water, and the latter part in the air. The grub
of the gnat lives in water, and I will give you the whole history of
this curious insect. We will first speak of the eggs, for out of these
it is that the boat is made. In order to see this boat made, you must
go early in the morning, between five and six o'clock, to a bucket, or
pond of stagnant water, where gnats are to be found: if you go later
you will not see it. The gnat's eggs are shaped something like a pocket
powder-flask, and it is by putting a great many of these together that
she makes the boat. To do this, the mother gnat stands by her fore-legs
upon the side of the bucket, or on a leaf or stick in the pond, and her
body is on a level with the water, and rests upon it, except the last
ring of her tail, which she raises a little. She then crosses her two
hind-legs in the shape of the letter X, and begins to put her eggs in
that part of the X nearest to her body. So she brings her legs, crossed
in this way, near to her body, and puts an egg in the angle, covered
with a kind of glue, which will make the eggs stick together. On each
side of the first egg she puts another in this shape .*., and here is a
drawing of the insect at this part of her work.



"She then goes on adding eggs, which are all put in the water with their
ends downwards, until she has got her boat half-finished; she then
uncrosses her legs, and just keeps one on each side of the boat as she
goes on, until she has completed it."

"And how many eggs, Uncle Philip, will she put together in this way?"

"From two hundred and fifty to three hundred and fifty, and when all are
laid they make quite a good boat, sharp, and raised at both ends, and
floating on the water. Then the mother gnat leaves it. Here is a picture
of one of these boats.


"Now I will tell you of what becomes of the young ones in these eggs.
They come out of the lower part of the egg, and commonly swim, with
their heads downward, near to the top of the water."

"With their heads downward, Uncle Philip! what is that for?"

"Why, they have a tube at the end of their bodies, near the tail,
through which they breathe; and that part must, you know, be at the top
to get air. Besides this, its tail and its breathing tube both end in a
sort of funnel, made up of hairs placed somewhat in the form of a star,
and covered with oil, so as to keep off water, and these buoy or float
it up. When it wishes to sink, it just folds up its funnels, and shuts
up in them a little bubble of air, which it breathes under the water;
and when it wishes to rise, it opens its funnels, and they float it to
the top again. Here is a drawing which will show it to you.



"They are hatched in a few days, and then the boat of empty eggs floats
about until it is destroyed by the weather. And to show you how good a
boat it is, I will tell you what a gentleman did to prove it. Mr. Kirby,
who is very fond of natural history, and has written a great deal about
insects, says that he put half a dozen of these gnat-boats in a tumbler
half full of water, and then poured upon them a stream from the mouth of
a quart bottle, held up a foot above them, and he could not sink them.
More than that, the water would not stay in them. If you push one to the
bottom with your finger, it will come up to the top directly, and you
cannot see any water in it."

"Why, this is a noble boat, Uncle Philip, that will never sink."

"True, boys; but listen, and you will find that before it can use its
wings the gnat has to sail in another boat still, much more dangerous
than this is. After it is hatched, it has to pass through several shapes
before it gets to be such an insect as you see. Here is a picture which
will show you its different shapes.



"The first is the same which you saw in the last picture, only in this
drawing the head is uppermost. But its last change, when it becomes
an insect with wings, is the most curious part of the whole. When it
is about to get its wings, and become a perfect gnat, it raises its
shoulders just above the top of the water, and its skin cracks, so that
the head of the gnat immediately comes through. The shoulders come next,
and make the crack larger; but it has yet all its body to get out, and
its legs and wings are as yet all shut up in its case. Now is the time
of danger for the gnat. It raises itself nearly straight out of the
crack, and by wriggling works its body along: and if a particle of water
should get upon the case, or touch its wings, it would be overset, and
must perish. Thousands and thousands die in this way. It is so very
light, too, that the wind will drive it about, and whirl it round and
round upon the top of the water; and when it is almost out, the insect
is tossed about in a canoe or boat of the very weakest sort, while its
body is a mast, which appears much too large for so small a boat. At
last it gets far enough out of the case to stretch its fore-legs, and
put them down upon the water (which will bear a gnat's weight), and then
it is safe; it spreads its wings, and soon leaves the little boat which
was so dangerous. Here is a picture of the gnat getting out of its case."



"Well, Uncle Philip, all this is very strange; we never knew before that
the gnat was a sailor."

"I suppose that you did not, boys. But as we are talking of boats, pray
can you think of any way of making a boat move through water without
oars, or paddles, or sails, or something to pull it along?"

"No indeed.--Oh yes, Uncle Philip, by steam."

"Ah, I mentioned paddles, boys, and a steamboat is forced along by them."

"No; Uncle Philip, we do not know."

"Well, I will tell you then of another way in which I have no doubt a
boat might be made to move. If there were any contrivance by which a
large quantity of water could be kept in the boat, and if this water
were forced out of tubes or holes at one end very violently, it would
push against the water in which the boat was floating, and force her
along. Some years ago a plan was thought of to make a steam engine throw
the water out of the stern of the boat, and thus to force her along; and
before that, Dr. Franklin tried some schemes for the same purpose, but
they never succeeded. Now there is an insect which adopts precisely this
plan, and perhaps some of those who thought of it got the notion from
the insect."

"What insect is it, Uncle Philip?"

"It is the grub of the dragon-fly. If you catch one of these grubs and
put it into a saucer of water with some of the dead leaves or sticks
it had for a covering, you will see these leaves or sticks floating
towards the tail of the grub, and afterward driven off again. This is
because the insect is pumping in water, and then throwing it out. If you
take one of them out of the water, and hold it with its head down, and
let a drop of water fall upon its tail, it instantly sucks it in, and
you can see it grow larger; and when it throws it out again it becomes
smaller."

"But, Uncle Philip, how can you see it suck the water in?"

"Very easily, boys. When it is in the water, if you will colour some
other water with indigo, or ink, or any thing else, and then hold a
glass tube just over the tail of the insect, and very carefully put some
of the coloured water into the tube, you will soon see the grub spirt
out a stream of it to the distance of several inches: or if you will put
the insect in a saucer of coloured water, and then suddenly move it, and
put it into one of clean water, you will see it spirt out the coloured
stream plainer still."

"Why, Uncle Philip, it must have a pump inside of it."

"It has, boys, something very like one. This stream of water is forced
out to help the insect along; for though it has six feet, it uses
them very little except for catching food. It drives the water out so
strongly against the still water behind it, that it sends it forward,
with a dart, very rapidly. Here are two pictures; one shows the pump
open, and the other shows it shut."



"Uncle Philip, is there any thing else curious about this insect?"

"There is, boys, something well worth attention; did you ever see a
mask?"

"Do you mean, Uncle Philip, a face made of pasteboard, very frightful
commonly, which you can wear over your own face?"

"That is a mask, boys; but so is any thing which is made to wear over
the face, and hide it. Now this little insect has a mask, not made
like a man's face, but which completely hides its mouth, and it is
exceedingly curious."

"How is it made, Uncle Philip?"

"Why, boys, I am not sure that I can tell you, so that you will
understand me; but I will try. Suppose your under-lip was horn, instead
of being flesh; and suppose it hung straight down until it reached the
bottom of your chin, so as to cover the whole of it, and that at the
bottom there was a large three-sided plate which was hollowed out, and
fastened by a joint or hinge to the bottom of your long lip, so that it
could turn up on the hinge and cover your face as high up as your nose,
and hide your long lip and your mouth and part of your cheeks: suppose,
too, that at the upper end of this long face-cover there were two other
pieces, so broad that they would cover all your nose and your temples,
and could open sidewise like jaws, and show your nose and mouth, so that
when they were opened they would appear like the blinders to a horse's
bridle; and then suppose that these jaws, upon their inner edges, were
cut into a great many sharp teeth, which fitted into each other, and you
will have some notion of this curious mask. Do you think you understand
me?"

"Why, pretty well, Uncle Philip, we think."

"Well, boys, here are some pictures, and with their help I hope what I
have been saying will be plain enough. In one picture the mask is shut;
and in the other, one of the jaws, like a blinder to a bridle, is open.
While the insect is at rest, it keeps the mask over its face; when it
wishes to use it, it unfolds it, and catches its food, and holds it to
its mouth. A gentleman once saw one of them holding and eating a large
tadpole."



"Uncle Philip, this mask is any thing but handsome."

"Very true; but you know we agreed when we were talking about the bats
to look at animals even if they were not handsome. And there is your
poor little ugly insect that you thought it right to kill, the spider;
did you know that the spider was a sailor, too?"

"No, indeed, Uncle Philip! Pray tell us of it, will you?"

"Yes; but wait a little, until we bring the boat's head right, for we
are near the landing-place. So--now, boys, I am ready. There is a very
large spider, about which not much is yet known, which actually builds
a _raft_, for the purpose of getting its food more easily. You may see
it sailing about upon the water, on a ball of weeds about three inches
across, which is held together probably by small silk cords spun from
itself; and the moment it sees an insect drowning, it leaves the raft,
gets the insect, and then returns to eat it at leisure. If you frighten
it, or it thinks danger is near, in an instant it is under the raft out
of sight."

"Ah, this is a cunning spider, Uncle Philip."

"Not half so cunning, boys, as the one we talked of which built a door
to its house. But here we are at land. Jump ashore, my lads, and give my
respects to your fathers and mothers, when you get home."

"We will. Good day, Uncle Philip."

"Good day, boys. I shall be glad to see you next Saturday."






     _Uncle Philip tells the Boys about an Insect with Tweezers,
     and another with Pincers; and shows them how a Fly's Foot is made,
     so as to stick to the Wall._


"How do you do, Uncle Philip, this morning?"

"Very well, boys, I thank you. You are all well, I suppose, or I should
not see you here."

"Yes, we are all well, thank you, Uncle Philip. But one of us would be
very glad to have your help."

"Why, what is the matter?"

"Charles Walker has run a splinter into his hand, and he wishes you to
get it out for him."

"Oh, certainly, I will do that, if I can. Let me see: but stay--I must
first put on my spectacles. Ah, now I see it; I can get it out, but I
must take my tweezers to it. There, it is out."

"Uncle Philip, those tweezers are very useful. If you had not had them,
you could not have taken hold of the splinter with your fingers; and
what would you have done then?"

"Tried to cut it out with the point of my penknife; but the tweezers are
better for such work; and that reminds me, boys, to tell you that there
are insects with tweezers."

"Why, what tool is it that you cannot find among them, Uncle Philip? It
really seems as if you found almost every kind among the lower animals."

"Oh, no--no, boys. There are a great many which I cannot find; but there
are several, too, which, as you know, we have discovered."

"And, Uncle Philip, we suppose that men learned to make their tools and
work at many of their trades from these dumb creatures."

"Stay, boys--I never said that, because I think that it is not true. We
know that in some things men did not learn from the insects, though they
might have done so. There is paper, for instance. How could men learn
to make it from the wasps, when it was a thins: in common use a long
time before Mr. Reaumur, of whom I told you, found out how the wasp made
it? So, too, with a great many tools; men invented them, and afterward,
perhaps, it was found out that insects had instruments like them:
and at other times the insects did show men how to make some things.
I will tell you of one which I think of just now. The city of London,
in England, is on the river Thames. Some time since a plan was adopted
to make what is called a tunnel under the river. This tunnel is a road
dug out of the earth, under the bottom of the river, across it; and of
course to keep the water from pressing in the earth as fast as it was
hollowed out, it was propped up by walls built on each side, with a very
strong arch at the top. The work has now stopped; but about half of it
was made. In building this arched road under the water, the workmen used
what they called a shield, to keep the water from coming through upon
them: and the gentleman who invented it, says that he first thought of
it, from examining a little animal named Taret, which will bore holes in
large pieces of timber under the water. This little animal has upon its
head a kind of shield, by which it keeps off the force of the water, and
works without being disturbed. So here was a case in which the insect
taught the man."

"Uncle Philip, that gentleman was a sensible man, in the first place to
watch the Taret and examine its head, and in the next place not to be
too proud to learn from it. I expect he was a naturalist; was he, Uncle
Philip?"

"I do not know, boys; but I should think his discovery of the shield
would make him an attentive observer, if he was not so before."

"Now, Uncle Philip, will you tell us of the tweezers?"

"Very willingly, boys. This instrument or tool belongs to the moths
which you see flying about at times. The tails are covered with a down,
which grows in the form of a thick brush or tuft, and has a shining
silky gloss, different in colour from the short hair upon the rest
of the body. The moth pulls off this hair to cover its eggs, and the
tweezers are used for that purpose. Here is a picture of the moths."



"Uncle Philip, you said that the moth pulled this hair off to cover its
eggs; are they easily frozen?"

"Not very easily, boys; but you are mistaken in thinking that the moth
covers these eggs to keep off the cold; for as she lays them in July and
August, and covers them at that time, it cannot be to keep off the cold."

"What is it for, then, Uncle Philip?"

"To keep off the summer heat, boys."

"Why, Uncle Philip! who ever heard of covering a thing up in hair or
wool to keep off heat?"

"I have heard of it, and seen it too, boys. It may seem strange, but
it is true, that down and wool, and such things, are nearly as good to
protect an animal from very great outward heat as they are to keep off
very severe cold. When I was at Naples, in Italy, it was summer;--the
climate is a very warm one.--The country people were in the habit of
bringing snow into the city from Mount Vesuvius, and every morning I
could see them coming in with their snow, which they sell to the rich
to use for cooling things: and they kept it from melting with straw
and wool. And in our own country, especially at the south, it is very
common when a large lump of ice is brought to the house to be used
through the day in midsummer, to wrap it up in a thick blanket until it
is wanted.

"But I have not yet told you of the tweezers. The moth has no jaws, like
bees and wasps, so that it cannot pull off these hairs as the bee would;
but, as I told you, it performs the work with its tweezers, which are
placed in its tail, and are like the points of a pair of sugar-tongs.
The insects, too, will use them very rapidly, and pull off a little of
the down, spread the egg upon it, and then cover it with more down, and
smooth it very neatly. Here are pictures of these tweezers."


"This is a curious instrument for the insect to have, Uncle Philip."

"True, boys, but a very useful one. I will tell you, however, of another
strange thing concerning moths with their tweezers; I mean the way
in which they will sometimes place their eggs. The kind of moth that
does this work is not exactly known, but naturalists think that the
eggs are moth's eggs, because they are covered with the down, exactly
like those which are known to be moth's eggs. These eggs are twisted
round a branch, like the thread of a screw, or like the curled end of
a corkscrew put over a small stick. Here is a picture of some of these
eggs."



"Ah, this is wonderful work indeed for a moth, Uncle Philip."

"As you seem to like this, boys, I will just mention to you that there
is another moth, called the lackey-moth, which winds its eggs also
around a branch. They are hard, however, and not covered with any down,
and are put on in the strongest possible way. If men wish to make an
arch of stone, you know that the stones will be more narrow at the
bottom than at the top, so that the bottom of the arch may make a small
circle, and the top a larger one: thus--

[

Now the moth goes on this principle. Its eggs are shaped like the bowl
of a wine-glass, and the smaller end is put next to the branch. They are
all glued together, too, with a kind of gum, which will not dissolve or
melt in water; so that the rain cannot injure them. Here is a picture of
these eggs.



"There is another insect, boys, which has something like tweezers;
though I think they resemble pincers most."

"What is it, Uncle Philip?"

"The boys call it father long-legs, and I dare say you have often seen
it. It is the crane-fly, and its pincers are used for putting its egg in
the hole it has made for it."

"Where does it put its eggs, Uncle Philip?"



"In the earth, boys; and to enable the insect to do this, the female has
the pincers I spoke of: they are made of something like horn, and are
sharp at the point. With these she first bores a hole in the ground, and
then puts the egg in. The egg is like a grain of gunpowder, and she puts
herself in a very curious posture to bore the hole. Here, boys, you may
see a picture of the pincers as they appear through a microscope, for
they are not near as large as the picture. And here is a drawing of one
boring."



"What good pincers those are, Uncle Philip: but will you tell us one
thing which we wish to know? Talking about the crane-fly has put me in
mind of it: the other day we were sitting together in school, and the
wall over our heads was covered with common flies; and when we came out,
we were talking about the way in which the fly stuck to the wall without
falling down; and as we could not tell what kept him up, we agreed to
ask you about it."

"I will tell you, boys, very willingly. I do not wonder that you were
unable to tell how the fly stuck to the wall; for you never tried to
find out, and therefore could only guess at it."

"And that is not a good way to find out any thing, Uncle Philip?"

"No, boys; though some persons much older than you are, did nothing but
guess about this very thing, and guessed very far from the truth too.
Some thought that the fly had a sponge in its foot, and squeezed a sort
of glue out of it which made it stick fast; others said that the glass
or wall was so rough that the fly's feet would catch hold of the little
points upon it; but both were wrong."

"How does it hold on, Uncle Philip?"

"Did you ever see what the boys call a sucker, made of a piece of soft
sole leather? That will show you how the fly's foot sticks fast. This
leather is cut round, and has a string through the centre; the boys wet
it, and then put it upon a board or something smooth, and stamp on it,
and try to raise it up from the board by the string; and it requires
some strength to pull it up: sometimes they put it on a small smooth
stone, and then lift up the stone by it. The reason why the leather
sticks so fast is because the air is pressing on it upon the outside,
and there is very little or no air between it and the board, to press
the other way."

"Why, Uncle Philip, is the air heavy?"

"Oh yes, boys, when there is so much of it as there is above the earth,
it presses down very heavily. Now the fly's foot is like the sucker;
when he puts it down he has a contrivance to drive out the air from
under it, so that there will be little or none between it and the wall;
and then the outer air presses upon it, and holds it fast."

"But, Uncle Philip, how does he get it up again?"

"Why, boys, by another contrivance, he can let air in under his foot
again, and then he can easily move it; for we do not feel the weight of
air when it presses upon both sides of us. The reason why you stand up
straight is because the air is pressing all around you; if it were on
one side of you only, it would press you down on the other side. Here is
a picture of the fly's foot, as it appears through the microscope. You
will see it has three suckers with the edges all like saws; these are
to make it stick the closer. This picture, boys, is sixty-four hundred
times as large as the fly's foot is."



"But, Uncle Philip, there is one thing yet hard to understand."

"What is it?"

"Why, the fly walks on the wall over our heads; now the air cannot press
down upon his feet there."

"Very true, boys: it cannot press _down_, but it can and does press
_up_ against his feet; for the air presses up and down and sidewise all
alike."

"Ah, now it is plain enough, and we are much obliged to you, Uncle
Philip, for telling us what we wished to know."

"You are quite welcome, my dear boys, to all that I can teach you: if it
makes you to be wiser and better men when you grow up, I shall be very
thankful to God that I have been able to do you any good."

"Good morning, Uncle Philip."

"Good day, boys; I shall expect to see you all in church to-morrow."

"We shall be there, Uncle Philip."





     _Uncle Philip tells the Boys how Hats are made; and then talks
     to them about Animals that can make Felt like the Hatter._


"Boys, do you remember my telling you of a remarkable bird, called the
tailor-bird, which sews very neatly?"

"Oh yes, Uncle Philip; it is not easy to forget such an excellent little
workman; but why do you ask--have you any thing more to tell us about
that bird?"

"No, boys, not any thing of that bird; but I was thinking last night
of the work done by several other kinds of birds, some of them quite
as good workmen as our little tailor; and I thought that, perhaps, you
might like to hear of them."

"We would, Uncle Philip, be very happy to hear of them, if you will have
the kindness to tell us about them. But what kind of work is it they do?"

"Various kinds, boys. There are some which make what is called _felt_,
just as the hat-maker does; and some are weavers, others basket-makers;
some build platforms to live on; and I assure you some birds' nests are
as curious as any of the things of which I have yet told you."

"Pray let us hear of them, Uncle Philip."

"Very well, you shall. I will begin with birds that make felt like the
hatter. Do you know how a hat is made?"

"Not exactly, Uncle Philip; but we know what it is made of."

"What is it, boys?"

"Of sheep's wool, and the hair of other animals: is it not?"

"Yes, commonly of these things; and to understand what I am going to
tell you, I think it will be necessary first to say something about the
hatter's trade. The business of the man who makes a hat is to mix up
wool or hair in such a way that it will stick together and make felt;
or something like a piece of thick, strong cloth. To do this, he does
not weave the hairs together, for they are of different kinds, and of
different lengths, and it would be endless work to weave every one in;
besides the cloth or felt would not be thick enough when it was done."

"How do they stick together then, Uncle Philip?"

"Why, boys, their sticking together is owing to something in the hairs
themselves. I will show you. Pull a hair out of your head; now hold it
just between the ends of your two fore-fingers, and rub the fingers
gently against each other."

"Why, Uncle Philip! see, the hair is moving towards my body."

"Very true; and if you will turn it with the other end towards you, and
rub your fingers as before, you will see it move from your body."

"This is very strange, Uncle Philip: the hair is smooth; how can my
fingers make it move so?"

"No, that is a mistake, boys, the hair is not smooth. If some kinds of
coarse hair are seen through the microscope, each one will seem to be,
not one hair, but ten or twelve smaller ones, which are joined at the
root, and form a hollow tube, like a straw; and sometimes it will have
joints just like some kinds of grass or straw. In some sorts of finer
hair you cannot see this even with the microscope; but you can feel it,
as you did just now when you moved your fingers. These joints overlap
one another, just as if you should take several pieces of straw and
stick them into each other. I will show you some pictures of hairs as
seen through the microscope, and then these joints will be plain enough."


"These are strange-looking hairs, Uncle Philip."

"Yes, they are curious; but now you may see why, when hairs are worked
together, they may be made to stick to each other. These rough parts
catch into each other, and hook themselves; and the more you press them
or move them, the more closely you work them into one solid mass, which
you cannot easily pull to pieces. Besides, you must remember that the
hairs will work only one way, as you found out just now when your finger
ends caught upon the little joints and moved them along. Now, suppose
that a very large heap of hairs, or wool, or fur, after it is made
ready, should be put upon a table, and covered with a linen cloth, and
pressed down in different directions. Each hair would begin to move in
the direction of its root, just as it did between your fingers, and so
all would be joined together at last into one solid piece."

"We understand you, Uncle Philip."

"Then you understand, boys, the way in which a hat is made. These hairs
are all worked together by the hands of the hat-maker, and to make them
work more easily (for curled hair, such as wool, does not move easily)
the hatter uses hot water, and dips his hat in it while he is working
it. After it is done, it is died, and then put upon a wooden block to
give it shape, and is ironed smooth."

"And this is the way, then, Uncle Philip, to make hats: it is curious,
is it not?"

"Yes, boys; but plain enough when you come to examine into it. And the
best stuff for the hatters is such hair as has most joints ready to
catch into each other: the rabbit's hair is very good, and for that
reason."

"And is it possible, Uncle Philip, that any bird can do such work as
this?"

"Not only possible, boys, but true. There are several birds very expert
at making felt, and their nest appears like a piece of hatter's felt, or
double-milled woollen cloth. I do not mean to say that it is as close
and solid as the hat or cloth; it would feel in your fingers looser than
either, still it is quite close; and when you examine it, you will find
it put together in the same way; it is all carded into one mass, and not
woven together thread by thread, or hair by hair."

"And are there many birds able to do such work, Uncle Philip?"

"I told you, boys, that there were several. The chief article which
they use is wool, but with this many other things will be found
mixed--sometimes, upon the outside, fine moss--sometimes pieces of a
spider's web rolled up into a little bundle--sometimes, when cotton can
be had, they will use small bunches of cotton-wool; but sheep's wool
they must have, and by means of that, they contrive to make, with the
other things I have mentioned, a felt wonderfully smooth."

"Is it smooth on the outside, Uncle Philip?"

"Sometimes quite so; but always as smooth on the inside, when it is
first made, as if it had been felted together by the hat-maker. There
is another thing curious enough in some of these nests. The hatter, you
know, binds the rim of his hat to make it stronger; and some of these
felt-making birds will make their nests stronger by a binding all around
them of dry grass stems, and sometimes of slender roots, and they take
care to cover these grass stems, or roots, with their felt-work of moss
and wool. But there is something else not less strange, I think, than
the binding. It is this: they will build their nests in the fork of a
shrub or tree; and to keep them from falling, they will work bands of
this felt round all the branches which touch the nest, both below and at
the sides. And those parts of the nest which touch the large branches
are always thinner than the other parts, which have no support; in those
parts the nest is nothing but a thin wall of felt, fixed around to
fit the shape of the branch, and that is enough to make that part of
the nest warm and soft. Here is a picture of one of these felt-nests,
fastened in the way of which I have been telling you."



"This, boys, is the nest of the chaffinch. The goldfinch makes a nest
of the same kind, only rather neater and smoother than that of the
chaffinch; for it takes pains to show nothing but the wool, and covers
up all the other materials which it uses."

"Uncle Philip, do these birds all use the same things to make their
nests?"

"All use wool, boys; but the truth is, that birds will commonly take
for their nests that article which they can get most easily, if it will
suit. A gentleman, named Bolton, tried this with some goldfinches. He
saw a pair of these birds beginning to build in his garden; they had
laid the foundation of their nest with moss, and grass, and such things,
as they commonly use: he scattered some wool about in different parts of
the garden; the birds took the wool: afterward he scattered cotton; they
took the cotton: on the next day he gave them some very fine down; they
took that, and finished the nest with it, and a very handsome nest it
was."

"How long were they in making it, Uncle Philip?"

"Three days. The canary-bird, boys, which you sometimes see in cages,
when free, builds a nest of the same kind. But the most curious
felt-makers among the birds, are in Africa. There is the Cape-tit,
a bird in the southern part of Africa, which builds a very strange
nest: it is shaped like a bottle of India-rubber, as thick as a coarse
worsted stocking, and made of cotton, and down, and other things felted
together. On one side of the nest there is something like a pocket, and
here is a picture of it."



"Uncle Philip, what is that pocket for?"

"Why, boys, some have supposed that it was for the male bird to sit on
and keep watch, while the female was inside of the nest sitting on the
eggs; but I think this is a mistake. And some have said, that when the
female leaves the nest, and the male wishes to go too, he sits in this
pocket, and beats against the side of the nest with his wing until he
has made the edges of the top meet, and thus shuts up the mouth of the
nest, and keeps off insects and other animals that would eat the young
ones; but I do not believe this story."

"Then what do you think the pocket is for. Uncle Philip?"

"I think, boys, that it is nothing but a perch, or place for the bird
to sit on before going into the nest. If the bird had no such place for
stopping, it might be troubled to get into its nest. The mouth is small,
and the bird could not enter it with its wings spread; and if it should
alight on the edge of the nest constantly, it would injure it, for it is
but slightly made. And I will tell you another reason why I think this
is the use of the pocket. There is another bird in South Africa, called
the pinc-pinc, which is the same species of bird as the Cape-tit; and
this bird we know uses its little nest built upon the side of the other
merely as a resting-place before going into the nest."

"Uncle Philip, does the pinc-pinc build its nest like a bottle, as the
Cape-tit does?"

"No, boys, not so smooth, but felted in the same way. The nest is
made mostly of the down of plants, and is either snowy white or
brownish, according to the colour of the down. On the outside it is a
clumsy-looking thing, but fastened, like the nest of the chaffinch,
very firmly to the branches near it, so that you cannot take it away
without breaking it to pieces. But rough as the outside is, you would be
astonished, if you were to look at the inside, and see how a bird, and a
small one too, with nothing but its wings, and tail, and feet, and bill
for tools, could ever have worked the down of plants together, so as to
make of it a piece of fine cloth. It has a narrow neck, something like
a chimney, at the top of it. This is the entrance; and at the lower end
of it there is a lump, which appears something like a small nest stuck
on to the larger one; sometimes there will be three or four of these
small-looking nests, and sometimes when there is a branch near the mouth
of the nest which makes a good resting-place, there will be none. Here
is a picture, boys, of the outside of one of these nests.



These birds are easily watched; and a French gentleman, who has written
the best account of the birds of Africa,[11] says that he has found
at least a hundred of these nests, and watched the birds for a whole
morning together, and never saw one sitting on the small nest as a
watch-bird; but has seen both the male and female arrive at the nest
together, perch upon the nearest branch, hop from this upon the edge of
the little nest, and then putting their heads into the hole, dart into
the large nest. And now, boys, what do you think about the use of these
little pockets?"

"Oh, Uncle Philip, we think that what you tell us is always right,
because you know a great deal more than we do."

"But, boys, you do not understand me. I may be mistaken, though I do
know more than you. I have been telling you my reasons for thinking
these little pockets are nothing but perches. Do you think the reasons
are good ones?"

"Why, yes, Uncle Philip, we do. The French gentleman who watched the
birds so much would have seen some of them using the pockets for a place
to keep watch in, if they were made for that."

"Right, boys. What I wish to teach you is to think for yourselves.
Whenever any one gives you a reason for a thing, just ask yourselves,
'Is this a good reason?'"

"But, Uncle Philip, how did it happen that the other people who saw
these birds should have said that these pockets were for the male bird
to sit in and watch?"

"I suppose, boys, that they really thought so; but then they had not
noticed the birds enough to find out the truth. It requires a great
deal of time and patience to find out the truth about animals: and this
is the reason why so many mistakes have been printed about them. It is
a pity that such mistakes have been made; for really there is enough
that is very curious about them, without men's making stories to appear
strange. But I think that there will be fewer mistakes made in future."

"Why so, Uncle Philip?"

"Because, boys, men are taking more pains to see for themselves. There
are more naturalists now than there were formerly; and I hope there
will be more still, especially in our own large and beautiful country,
where there have not yet been many. I hope that natural history will be
studied in all our schools before a great while. But let us go back to
our African birds.

"There is another kind which Mr. Vaillant speaks of, and I will tell you
of that. He calls it the capocier, and he had a very fine opportunity to
watch two of them. It is a bird easily made gentle, and he had managed
by feeding two of them to make them so tame that they would come into
his tent and hop about several times in a day, though he never had them
in a cage. When it became time for them to build a nest, they staid away
for some time, and would come to the tent once only in four or five
days. At last they began to come regularly, as before, and Mr. Vaillant
soon found out what they came for. They had seen upon his table cotton
and moss and flax, which he used to stuff the skins of birds, and which
were always lying there; and the capociers had come for these things,
to build their nest of them. They would take up large bunches of them
in their bills and fly away. Mr. Vaillant followed and watched them to
see the nest built, and found them at work in the corner of a garden, by
the side of a spring, in a large plant which grew under the shade of a
tree. They were building in the fork of the branches, and had laid the
foundation, which was about four inches high and six inches across. This
part was made of moss and flax, mixed with grass and tufts of cotton.
The next day this gentleman never left the side of the nest: the female
was at work building, and the male brought the materials. In the morning
the male bird made twenty-nine journeys to Mr. Vaillant's table for flax
and cotton and moss; and in the afternoon he made seventeen. He would
help his mate to trample down and press the cotton with his body, so
as to make it into felt. Whenever he came with a load, he would put it
either upon the edge of the nest or upon some branch within reach of the
female.

"After he began to help the female at her work, he would often break
off, and begin to play; and sometimes, as if in mischief, he would pull
down a little of her work. She would get angry, and peck him with her
bill: but he still continued to vex her, until at last, to save her work
from being pulled down, she would stop working, and fly off from bush
to bush, to tease him. They would then make up the quarrel, and she
set about her work, while he would sing most delightfully for several
minutes. After his song was finished, he would go to work again, until
he got into a new fit of mischief and frolic, and then he would torment
her as before.

"On the third day the birds began to build the walls, after having
repeatedly pressed the bottom, and turned themselves round upon it in
all directions, to make the nest solid. They first made a plain border
all around; this they trimmed, and on it they piled up tufts of cotton,
which they felted in by beating and pressing with their breasts and
wings; and if any part stuck out, they worked it in with their bills,
so as to make all perfectly smooth and firm. And they worked their nest
round the branches near it, just as the chaffinch does.

"In seven days they finished it. It was as white as snow, and on the
outside it was nine inches high, and not smooth or regular in its shape;
but in the inside it was shaped exactly like a hen's egg, with the small
end up: the hollow was five inches high, and between four and five
inches across; and it was so neatly felted together that it might have
been taken for a piece of fine cloth a little worn; and so close that
you could not take away any part without tearing the nest in pieces.
Here is a picture of the nest, boys, and it is wonderful work for a
small bird."



"Oh, Uncle Philip! we like the capociers very much. When they were tired
of working, they were ready to play; and when they had played enough,
they went back to work. Do not you think there was good sense in that?"

"Yes, boys, I do: it will not do, either to work all the time or to play
all the time. All that we have to do is to take care that we do not
spend more time than we should at either. But there is a sweet little
bird, boys, quite common in our own country, which makes felt: would you
like to hear of it?"

"Oh yes, Uncle Philip. What bird is it?"



"It is the humming-bird. Here is a drawing of its nest. It is about an
inch deep, and an inch across; and from a little distance, appears more
like a small knot upon the branch than like a bird's nest. The outside
of the nest from which this picture is made, was covered with a kind of
bluish-gray lichen, that grows in scales upon old trees and fences: this
seemed to be glued on by the bird in some way or other. The inside was
the felt, and was made of the fine down from seeds that float about in
the air, mixed with the down from mullein-weed and stalks of fine grass.
This, boys, is the smallest nest made by a bird, I believe; and some
insects make larger houses for themselves than this bird does.

"But I have not time at present to talk with you any longer, as I have
letters to write; and therefore I must bid you good morning."

"Farewell, Uncle Philip."


FOOTNOTE:

[11] M. Vaillant.






     _Uncle Philip tells the Boys about Birds that are Weavers; and
     about the Politician-bird; and a Story about some Philosophers; and
     what may be learned from these Conversations._


"Well, boys, were you pleased enough with our last conversation to wish
to hear more about birds' nests?"

"Yes, if you please, Uncle Philip. You said something about birds that
were weavers; we should like to hear something of them."

"Very well, then; I will talk about the weavers this morning. And the
first thing I have to say is that this is no uncommon trade among birds.
Take the nest of any of the common small birds that use hair for a
lining, and you will be apt to find some part of it woven."

"But, Uncle Philip, you do not mean that birds weave as smoothly and
regularly as people do!"

"Not quite, boys; but still it is very fair weaving, and done as our
weaving is, by working a hair or thread in and out between other hairs
and threads, or roots, or bits of stick and grass. The best way to see
it, is to remove the outside work of hay or roots very carefully, or to
take away the felt-work of wool or moss, and you may see a round piece
of hair-cloth, sometimes finer, and sometimes coarser, according to the
bird that made it, and the things of which it is made. In the common
sparrow's nest the hair-cloth is very thin, so that you can see through
it easily; but still every hair is woven in singly, and always bent,
so as to lie smooth in the bottom of the nest. And there are no ends
of hairs left sticking out; they are always worked into the moss which
makes the outside of the nest."

"Uncle Philip, how do the birds make the hairs lie smooth in their
places?"

"About that, boys, there is some uncertainty. Some persons think that
the birds have a kind of glue in their mouths by which they make them
stick; and others suppose that they wet the hairs, so as to make them
bend. But there are much better weavers than the common sparrow. The
red-breast and the yellow-hammer are both better workmen."

"Where do they get hairs. Uncle Philip?"

"They find bunches of them sticking in the cracks of a fence or post
where a horse or cow has been rubbing; and some of these little
creatures, when they find such a bunch, will pull it to pieces, and work
it in, hair by hair."

"Are there many of these weaver-birds. Uncle Philip?"

"Yes, boys, a great many: our country is quite full of them. There is
the mountain ant-catcher,[12] which will weave a nest of dry grass, and
wind the blades round the branches of a tree; and the king-bird,[13]
which first makes a basket frame-work of slender sticks, and afterward
weaves in wool and tow, and lines it with hairs and dry grass. There is
another, too, the white-eyed fly-catcher, which some have called the
politician. This bird builds its nest and hangs it up by the upper edge
of the two sides on a vine. The outside is made of pieces of rotten
wood, threads of dry stalks or weeds, pieces of paper, commonly old
newspapers; and all these are woven together with caterpillar's silk,
and lined with fine dry grass and hair."

"Uncle Philip, why do they call it the politician? What is a politician?"

"What is commonly called a politician, boys, is a person who is always
reading in newspapers about the government of the country, and talking
a great deal about the President and Congress, and the laws that are
made, and all such things: but the real politician is one who studies
the different kinds of government which have been in the world, and
endeavours to find out which is good and which is bad, and why they are
good or bad. He reads, too, a great deal of history, to learn how other
nations have done, what kind of laws they made, and why they made them,
how they became great nations, or how they became very poor; and he
_thinks_, too, a great deal, that he may find out what will be best for
his own nation. It requires hard study and thought, boys, to make a good
politician."

"Then, Uncle Philip, a man cannot learn how to be one out of the
newspapers."

"No, boys; not out of newspapers alone: but still he will read them,
and very often learn from them things very useful to him in his
business. Newspapers are valuable things, and I think it is always best
for a country to have a great many of them spread about in it. But they
will not, of themselves, make a man a politician; and if you should ask
the persons who print them, whether they expect them to teach men all
about governments, they will tell you, No: but they will teach people
what is doing in all the governments in the world. No good government,
boys, will ever be afraid to let the people have newspapers. They are
always fewest where the government is hardest upon the people. But let
us go back to the birds. Can you tell me now why some people call the
fly-catcher a politician?"

"Oh, yes; because he has so many bits of old newspapers about his nest."

"That is the reason, boys. There is another kind of fly-catcher, called
the hooded fly-catcher, and it weaves its nest of flax and strings
pulled from the stalks of hemp: but the best weaver in this country
is the Baltimore starling. This bird chooses the ends of high bending
branches for his nest, and he begins in a forked twig, by fastening
strong strings of hemp or flax around both branches of the fork, just
as far apart as he means the width of his nest to be: he then with
the same kind of strings, mixed in with pieces of loose tow, weaves
a strong, firm kind of cloth, which is like the hatter's felt in
appearance, only that you can see that the nest is woven, not felted.
In this way he makes a pouch, or purse, six or seven inches deep, and
lines it on the inside with several soft things, which he weaves into
the outside netting, and finishes the whole with horse-hair. Mr. Wilson
describes one of these nests which he had. He says that it was round
like a cylinder. Do you know what a cylinder is?"

"No, Uncle Philip."

"A smooth round pillar to hold up a porch is a cylinder; my walking-cane
is a cylinder; so is the straight body of a tree. When these are of the
same size all through their whole length, they are perfect cylinders;
and any thing in that shape is a cylinder."

"We understand you, Uncle Philip; a gun-barrel is a cylinder, and there
is a cylinder in your garden."

"What is it?"

"The heavy stone roller that you let us pull over the walks."



"Right. Well, this nest was like a cylinder, about five inches across,
and seven inches long. At the top the bird had worked a level cover, so
as to leave a hole only two inches and a half across; at the bottom it
was round. It was made of flax, tow, hemp, hair, and wool, and was woven
into a complete cloth; it was also tightly sewed through and through
with long horse-hairs, some of which when drawn out measured two feet.
Here is a picture of this nest. In the bottom it had bunches of cows'
hair, and these were also sewed down with horse-hairs. This bird, boys,
is a thief."

"A thief, Uncle Philip! What does it steal?"

"When I say it is a thief, boys, I mean that it takes what does not
belong to it: but it is not a thief as man is. When a man takes
something which belongs to another person, he _knows_ that it is not
his; and therefore he steals: but the poor bird does not know, and that
makes a difference. You asked me what it steals: I will tell you. At
the time for building its nest, it will take whatever suits for that
purpose; and therefore the country women are obliged to watch their
thread that they have put out to bleach: the farmer, too, who has cut
off young grafts from his fruit-trees and tied them up in bundles, must
be careful, or the bird will pull at the string till he gets it off; and
sometimes, when the bunch is not too large, he will fly off with the
whole. In autumn, when the leaves have fallen, you may sometimes see
skeins of silk and hanks of thread hanging about the starling's nest,
but so woven up and entangled in it that they are good for nothing. Now,
boys, before this country was settled by people from Europe, where do
you suppose the starling got silk and thread for his nest?"

"Why, Uncle Philip, are you sure he got them at all?"

"A very sensible question, boys. When you are asked _why_ a thing is so,
it is always well, first to be satisfied that it is so, before you begin
to look for a reason. I have read a story about this very thing: would
you like to hear it?"

"Oh yes, Uncle Philip."

"Well, then, I have read that there were once several philosophers
(I told you what a philosopher is, you know), who were in the habit
of meeting together to put questions to each other, and to make new
discoveries. At one of these meetings, one of them asked the others,
'_Why_ a fish weighed more _in_ the water than he did _out_ of it?'
Several of them gave very wise reasons, as they thought; and all the
reasons were different: so they could not agree. There was among them,
however, a very sensible old gentleman, who listened to them all, but
said nothing. When he went home, he got a fish and weighed it, out of
the water, and wrote down its weight; he then took a bucket of water,
and weighed that; and when he dropped the fish in the bucket, he found
that it increased the weight of the whole, precisely as many pounds as
the fish had weighed out of the water; so he found out that there was
no reason why a fish weighed more in the water than he did out of it,
because it was not true: his weight was the same either in or out of it."

"Ah, Uncle Philip, that is a pleasant story: he was a sensible old
gentleman."

"Yes, boys, he was; and it was sensible in you to ask first whether the
starling _did use_ silk and thread before Europeans came here; and after
that is answered, it is time enough to ask where he got such things. Now
the truth is, that he _did not_ use them until after Europeans brought
them here; because there were no such things in this country: for the
Indians who lived here could not make thread. I think; and I am sure
they could not spin silk: but I will tell you, boys, what it shows us;
and it is that I wish you to notice."

"What is it, Uncle Philip?"

"It is the wisdom of this bird in taking advantage of circumstances. No
doubt he built very good nests long before silk and thread were in the
country; but he had sense enough to know that they were exactly what
suited him, and he used them as soon as he could get them."

"Then, Uncle Philip, you think that the bird has reason?"

"No, boys, I do not: but you have reason, and I have something to say
to you about it. It is this: as God has given you reason, and so made
you better than the poor dumb animals, he expects more from you. That is
fair, is it not?"

"Yes, Uncle Philip; very fair."

"Then what I wish you to remember is this: that you must use your reason
in such way as to glorify God. He gave it to you to learn his will and
his commandments, and to live accordingly. So now you see the things
which our conversations about the animals can teach us. In the first
place, we see the goodness of God; in the second place, we see the
power of God; in the third place, we see the wisdom of God: and we see
in ourselves that God has done more for us than he has done for them,
and therefore we ought to love and serve him: we ought to believe what
he says in his Word; we ought to pray to him for his blessed help; we
ought, _first of all_, to seek the salvation of our souls, through our
Lord Jesus Christ.

"Now, my dear children, to-morrow I must leave home for a few weeks; but
when I come back we will talk together again: and as I am going to see
my nephews, I will get a book which they printed about insects; it is
called the History of Insects,[14]--and I will bring it to you; and some
of the largest boys among you may read it aloud, and I will explain to
you what you cannot understand. If you are pleased with what I have been
telling you, that book will tell you a great deal more."

"Oh, thank you, Uncle Philip. We shall like it very much."

"Farewell, boys."

"Good-by, dear Uncle Philip."


FOOTNOTES:

[12] Myiothera obsoleta of Bonaparte.

[13] Tyrannus intrepidus.

[14] Family Library, No. VIII.--_Publishers._









 