HYMNS 



FOR CHILDHOOD ON


THE WORKS OF NATURE, 



OTHER SUBJECTS 



FOR THE USE OF CHILDREN 



BY MRS. FELICIA HEMANS. 



PHILADELPHIA: 

HENRY F. ANNERS, CHESTNUT STREET. 

1840. 





PREFACE. 



The following very simple compositions 
were written by Mrs. Hemans several years 
before their publication, exclusively for her 
own family circle, and without the remotest 
idea of their being offered to the public. It 
has since been her wish to render them more 
extensively, however humbly, useful. The 
Hymns were designed to associate the first 



devotional thoughts of childhood with the 
solemnity diffused over the outward creation, 
and to awake in the tender mind a sense of 
the beauty and sublimity of the great works 
of God. 



INTRODUCTORY VERSES. 



Oh! blest are thou, whose steps may rove 
Through the green paths of vale and grove, 
Or, leaving all their charms below, 
Climb the wild mountain's airy brow ; 

And gaze afar o'er cultured plains, 
And cities with their stately fanes, 
And forests, that beneath thee lie, 
And ocean mingling with the sky. 



6 

For man can show thee nought so fair. 
As Nature's varied marvels there; 
And if thy pure and artless breast 



Can feel their E^randeur, thou art blest ! 



For thee, the stream in beauty flows, 
For thee, the gale of summer blows, 
And, in deep glen and wood-walk free. 
Voices of joy still breathe for thee. 

But happier far, if then thy soul 
Can soar to Him who made the whole, 
If to thine eye the simplest flower 
Portray His bounty and His power. 



If, in what'er is bright or grand, 
Thy mind can trace His viewless hand, 
If Nature's music bid thee raise 
Thy song of gratitude and praise ; 

If heaven and earth, with beauty fraught. 
Lead to His throne thy raptured thought, 
If there thou lov'st His love to read, 
Then, wanderer, thou art blest indeed. 



HYMNS 

ON THE WORKS OF NATURE 



THE RAEMBOW. 



I do set my bow in the cloud, and it shall be for a 
Token of a covenant between me and the earth. 

Genesis ix. 13. 



Soft falls the mild, reviving shower 

From April's changeful skies, 
And rain-drops bend each trembling flower 

Thev tinsre with richer dves. 



10 

Soon shall their genial influence call 

A thousand buds to day, 
Which, waiting but their balmy fall, 

In hidden beauty lay. 

E'en now lull many a blossom's bell 
With fragrance fills the shade ; 

And verdure clothes each grassy dell. 
In brighter tints arrayed. 

But. mark ! what arch of varied hue 
From heaven to earth is bowed ? 

Haste, ere it vanish, haste to view 
The Rainbow in the cloud. 



11 

How bright its glory ! there behold 
The emerald's verdant rays, 

The topaz blends its hue of gold 
With the deep ruby's blaze. 



Yet not alone to charm thy sight 
Was given the vision fair; — 

Gaze on that arch of colored light, 
And read God's mercy there. 



It tells us that the mighty deep, 

Fast by th' Eternal chained, 
No more o^er earth's domains shall sweep. 

Awful and unrestrained. 



12 

It tells that seasons, heat and cold. 

Fixed by his sovereign will. 
Shall, ill their course, bid man behold 

Seed-time and harvest still ; 

That still the flower shall deck the field. 

When vernal zephyrs blow ; 
That still the vine its fruit shall yield, 

When autumn sun-beams glow. 

Then, child of that fair earth ! which yet 
Smiles with each charm endowed, 

Bless thou His name, whose mercy set 
The Rainbow in the cloud I 



13 



THE SUN. 



The sun comes forth ; — each mountam height 

Glows with a tinge of rosy Hght, 

And flowers, that slumbered through the night, 

Their dewy leaves unfold ; 
A flood of splendor bursts on high, 
And ocean's breast reflects a sky 

Of crimson and of gold. 



14 

Oh ! thou art glorious, orb of day ! 
Exulting nations hail thy ray, 
Creation swells a choral lay, 

To welcome thy return ; 
Fruin thee all nature draws her hues, 
Thy beams the insect's wings suffuse. 

And in the diamond burn. 

Yet must thou fade; — when earth and heaven 
By fire and tempest shall be riven, 
Thou, froni thy sphere of radiance driven. 
Oh Sun ! must fall at last ; 
Another heaven, another earth. 
Far other glory shall have birth, 
When all we see is past. 



15 

But He, who gave the world of might, 
•'Let there be Hght" — and there ivas hght, 
Who bade thee chase the gloom of night, 

And beam, the world to bless ; — 
For ever bright, for ever pure, 
Alone unchanging shall endure, 

The Sun of Righteousness ! 



16 



THE RIVERS. 



Go! trace th' unnumbered streams, o'er earth 
That wind their devious course, 

That draw from Alpine heights their birth, 
Deep vale, or cavern source. 

Some by majestic cities glide. 
Proud scenes of man's renown, 

Some lead their solitary tide, 
Where pathless forests frown. 




^mii lEii^'igMo 



17 

Some calmly roll in golden sands, 

Where Afric's deserts lie; 
Or spread, to clothe rejoicing lands 

With rich fertility. 

These bear the bark, whose stately sail 

Exulting seems to swell ; 
While these, scarce rippled by a gale, 

Sleep in the lonely dell. 



Yet on, alike, though swift or slow 
Their various waves may sweep, 

Through cities or through shades they flow 
To the same boundless deep. 
2 



18 

< )h ! thus, whate'er our path of life, 
Through sunshine or through gloom. 

Through scenes of quiet or of strife. 
Its end is still the tomb. 



The chief, m hose mighty deeds we hail 
The monarch throned on high, 

The peasant in his native vale. 
All journey on — to die ! 



But if Thy guardian care, my God ! 

The pilgrim's course attend, 
I will not fear the dark abode. 

To which my footsteps bend. 



19 

For thence thine all-redeeming Son, 
Who died, the world to save, 

In light, in triumph, rose, and won 
The victory from the grave ! 



20 



THE STARS. 



The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firma- 
ment showeth his handy-work. 

Psalm xix. 1. 



No cloud obscures the summer sky, 
The moon in brightness walks on high, 
And, set in azure, every star 
Shines, like a gem of heaven, afar ! 




'irmm ^^^i^ 



21 

Child of the earth ! oh ! Hft thy glance 
To yon bright firmament's expanse ; 
The glories of its realm explore. 
And gaze, and wonder, and adore ! 

Doth it not speak to every sense 
The marvels of Omnipotence ? 
Seest thou not there th' Almighty name, 
Inscribed in characters of flame 1 

Count o'er those lamps of quenchless light, 
That sparkle through the shades of night ; 
Behold them ! — can a mortal boast 
To number that celestial host? 



22 

Mark well each little star, whose rays 
In distant splendor meet thy gaze ; 
Each is a world by Him sustained, 
Who from eternity hath reigned. 



Each, shining not lor earth alone, 
Hath suns and planets of its own, 
And beings, whose existence springs 
From Him, th' all-powerful Ivinj^ of kings. 



Haply, those glorious beings know 
Nor stain of guilt, nor tear of w^o ; 
But raising still th' adoring voice. 
For ever in their God rejoice. 



23 

What then art thou, oh! child of clay! 
Amid creation's grandeur, say 1 
— E'en as an insect on the breeze, 
E'en as a dew-drop, lost in seas ! 



Yet fear thou not ! — the sovereign hand. 
Which spread the ocean and the land, 
xA.nd hung the rolling spheres in air, 
Hath e'en for thee, a Father's care ! 



Be thou at peace ! — th' all-seeing eye. 
Pervading earth, and air, and sky. 
The searching glance which none may flee. 
Is still, in mercy, turned on thee. 



24 



CHRISTMAS CAROL. 



O lovely voices ol" the sky, 

That hymird the Saviour's birth ! 
Are ye not singing still on high, 

Ye that sang " Peace on earth ?" 
To us yet speak the strains 

Wherewith, in days gone by, 
Ye bless'd the Syrian swains, 
O voices of the sky ! 



25 

O clear and shining light, whose beams, 

That hour Heaven's glory shed 
Around the palms, and o'er the streams, 
And on the shepherd's head ; 

Be near, through life and death, 

As in that holiest night 
Of hope, and joy, and faith, 
O clear and shining light ! 

O star which led to Him, whose love 

Brought down man's ransom free; 
Where art thou? — midst ihe hosts above, 
May we still gaze on thee ? — 
In heaven thou art not set, 

Thy rays earth might not dim, 
Send them to guide us yet ! 
star which led to Him ! 



26 



A FATHER READING THE BIBLE. 



*Twas earlv day, and sunlight streamed 

Soft through a quiet room, 
That hush'd but not forsaken seem'd. 

Still, but with naught of gloom. 
For there, serene in happy age, 

Whose hope is from above, 
A father communed with the page 

Of Heaven's recorded love. 



27 

Pure fell the beam, and meekly bright, 

On his gray holy hair, 
And touch'd the page with tenderest light, 

As if its shrine were there ! 
But oh ! that patriarch's aspect shone 

With something lovelier far, 
A radiance all the spirits own, 

Caught not from sun or star. 

Some word of life e'en then had met 

His calm benignant eye, 
Some ancient promise breathing yet 

Of immortality : 
Some martyr's prayer, wherein the glow 

Of quenchless faith survives — 
For every feature said, " I know 

That my Redeemer lives /" 



28 

And silent stood his children by. 

Hushing their very breath, 
Before the solemn sanctity 

Of thoughts o'er sweeping death. 
Silent — yet did not each young breast 

With love and reverence melt? 
Oh ! blest be those fair girls, and blest 

That home where God is felt ! 




■if:: 



^To 



29 



THE OCEAN. 



They that go down to the sea in ships, that do busi- 
ness in great waters, these see the works of the 
Lord, and his wonders in the de6p. 

Psalm cvii. 23, 24. 



He that in venturous barks hath been 

A wanderer on the deep, 
Can tell of many an awful scene, 

Where storms for ever sweep. 



30 

For many a fair, majestic sight 
Hath met his wandering eye, 

Beneatli the streaming northern hght. 
Or blaze of Indian sky, 



Go! ask him of the whirlpool's roar. 

Whose echoing thunder peals 
Loud, as if rushed along the shore 

An army's chariot wheels ; 



Of icebergs, floating o'er the main, 
Or fixed upon the coast. 

Like glittering citadel or fane, 
'Mid the bright realms of frost ; 



31 

Of coral rocks, from waves below 
In steep ascent that tower, 

And fraught with peril, daily grow, 
Formed by an insect's power ; 



Of sea-fires, which at dead of night 

Shine o'er the tides afar. 
And make th' expanse of ocean bright 

As heaven with many a star. 



Oh God ! thy name they well may praise. 

Who to the deep go down. 
And trace the wonders of thy ways, 

Where rocks and billows frown. 



32 

If glorious be that awful deep, 
No human power can bind, 

What then art Thou, who bidst it keep 
Within its bounds confined ! 



Let heaven and earth in praise unite. 

Eternal praise to Thee, 
Whose word can rouse the tempest's might. 

Or still the raging sea ! 




ID)SI£ 2^©lSiMo 



33 



THE THUNDER STORM. 



Deep, fiery clouds o'ercast the sky, 
Dead stillness reigns in air, 

There is not e'en a breeze, on high 
The gossamer to bear. 



The woods are hushed, the waves at rest, 

The lake is dark and still. 
Reflecting, on its shadowy breast, 

Each form of rock and hill. 
3 



84 

The lime-leaf waves not in the grove, 

Nor rose-tree in the bower; 
The birds have ceased their songs of love. 

Awed by the threatening hour. 



'Tis noon ; — yet nature's calm profound 

Seems as at midnight deep ; 
— But hark ! what peal of awful sound 

Breaks on creation's sleep ? 



The thunder bursts ! — its rolling might 
Seems the firm hills to shake ; 

And in terrific splendor bright, 
The gathered hghtnings break. 



35 

Yet fear not, shrink not thou, my child ! 

Though by the bolt's descent 
Were the tall cHffs in ruins piled, 

And the wide forests rent. 



Doth not thy God behold thee still, 

With all-surveying eye 1 
Doth not his power all nature fill. 

Around, beneath, on high ? 

Know, hadst thou eagle-pinions free. 

To track the realms of air, 
Thou couldst not reach a spot where He 

Would not be with thee there ! 



36 

Jn the wide city's peopled towers, 

On the vast ocean's plains, 
"Midst the deep woodland's loneliest bowers, 

Alike th' Almighty reigns ! 

Then fear not, though the angry sky 
A thousand darts should cast ; — 

Why should we tremble, e'en to die. 
And be with Uiia at last? 




^lEB snoiE Eigro, 



37 



HYMN 
BY THE SICK BED OF A MOTHER. 



Father ! that in the olive shade; 
When the dark hour came on, 
Didst, with a breath of heavenly aid, 

Strengthen thy Son ; 

Oh ! by the anguish of that night, 

Send us down blest rehef ; 
Or to the chasten'd let thy might 

Hallow this grief! 



38 

And Thou, that when the starry sky 

Saw the dread strife begun, 
Didst teach adoring faith to cry, 

« Thy will be done !" 

By thy meek spirit, Thou, of all 

That e'er have mourn'd the chief. 
Thou Saviour! if the stroke must fall ! 
Hallow this grief! 



39 



THE CHILD'S FIRST GRIEF. 



" Oh ! call my brother back to me ! 

I cannot play alone ; 
The summer comes with flower and bee 

Where is my brother gone ? 

" The butterfly is glancing bright 
Across the sunbeam's track ; 

I care not now to chase its flight, 
Oh ! call my brother back ! 



40 

'* The flowers run wild — the flowers we sow'd 

Around our garden tree ; 
Our vine is drooping with its load, 

Oh ! call him back to me !" 



" He would not hear thy voice, fair child; 

He may not come to thee; 
The face that once like spring-time smiled, 

On earth no more thou'lt see. 



'• A rose's brief bright life of joy, 
Such unto him was given ; 

Go — thou must play alone, my boy 1 
Thy brother is in heaven." 



41 

" And has he left his birds and flowers ; 

And must I call in vain ? 
And through the long, long summer hours, 

Will he not come again 1 

" And by the brook and in the glade 

Are all our wanderings o'er 1 
Oh ! while my brother with me play'd, 

Would I had loved him more /" 



42 



EPITAPH 

OVER THE GRAVE OF TWO BROTHERS A CHILD 

AND A YOUTH. 

Thou, that canst gaze upon thine own fair 
boy, 
And hear his prayer's low murmur at thy 
knee, 
And o'er his slumber bend in breathless joy, 
Come to this tomb ! it hath a voice for thee ! 
Pray ! — thou art blest, ask strength for sor- 
row's hour. 
Love, deep as thine, lays here its broken 
flower. 



43 

Thou ! that art gathering from the smile of 
youth, 
Thy thousand hopes, rejoicing to behold 
All the heart's depths before thee bright with 
truth. 
All the mind's treasure silently unfold ; 
Look on this tomb ! for thee, too, speaks the 
grave, 
Where God hath seal'd the fount of hope 
he gave. 



44 



THE BIRDS. 



Are not five sparrows sold for two farthings, and not 
one of them is forgotten before God. 

St. Luke. xii. 6. 



Tribes of the air ! whose favored race 
May wander through llie reahiis of space, 

Free guests of earth aud sky ; 
In form, in plumage, and in song. 
What gifts of nature mark your throng 

With bright variety ! 



45 - 

Nor differ less your forms, your flight, 
Your dwellings hid from hostile sight, 

And the wild haunts ye love ; 
Birds of the gentle beak !* how dear 
Your wood-note, to the wanderer's ear, 

In shadowy vale or grove ! 

Far other scenes, remote, subHme, 
Where swain or hunter may not cHmb, 

The mountain-eagle seeks ; 
Alone he reigns, a monarch there, 
Scarce will the chamois' footstep dare 

Ascend his Alpine peaks. 

* The Italians call all singing birds, Birds of the 
rentle beak. 



• 46 

Others there are, that make tlicir home 
Where the white billows roar and foam, 

Around th' o'erhanging rock ; 
Fearless they skim the angry wave, 
Or sheltered in their sea-beat cave, 

The tempest's fury mock. 



Where Afric's burning realm expands, 
The ostrich haunts the desert sands, 

Parched by the blaze of day; 
The swan, where northern rivers glide. 
Through the tall reeds that fringe their tide. 

Floats graceful on her way. 



47 

The condor, where the Andes tower, 
Spreads his broad wing of pride and power, 

And many a storm defies ; 
Bright in the orient realms of morn, 
All beauty's richest hues adorn 

The Bird of Paradise. 



Some, amidst India's grove of palm. 
And spicy forests breathing balm, 

Weave soft their pendent nest ; 
Some, deep in western wilds, display 
Their fairy form and plumage gay, 

In rainbow colors drest. 



48 

Others no varied song may pour, 
May boast no eagle-[)lLmie to soar, 

No tints of light may wear; 
Yet, know, our Heavenly Father guides 
The least of these, and well provides 

For each, with tenderest care. 

Shall He not then thy guardian be? 
Will not his aid extend to thee ? 

Oh ! safely may'st thou rest ! — 
Trust in his love, and e'en should pain. 
Should sorrow tempt thee to complain, 

Know, what He wills is best ! 



49 



THE SKY-LARK. 



The Sky-lark, when the dews of morn 
Hang tremulous on flower and thorn, 
And violets round his nest exhale 
Their fragrance on the early gale, 
To the first sunbeam spreads his wings. 
Buoyant with joy, and soars, and sings. 

He rests not on the leafy spray, 
To warble his exulting lay, 
4 



50 

But high above the morning cloud 
Mounts in triumphant freedom proud. 
And swells, when nearest to the sky. 
His notes of sweetest ecstacy. 

Thus, my Creator ! thus the more 
My spirit's wing to Thee can soar. 
The more she triumphs to behold 
Thy love in all thy works unfold, 
And bids her hymns of rapture be 
Most glad, when rising most to Thee ! 



51 



THE NIGHTINGALE. 



When twilight's grey and pensive hour 
Brings the low breeze, and shuts the flower, 
And bids the solitary star 
Shine in pale beauty from afar ; 



When gathering shades the landscape veil, 
And peasants seek their village-dale, 
And mists from river-wave arise, 
And dew in every blossom lies ; 



52 

When evening's primrose opes, to shed 
Soft fragrance round her grassy bed : 
When crlow-worms in tlic wood-walk light 
Their lamp, to cheer the traveller's sicht: 



At that calm hour, so still, so pale, 
Awakes the lonely iNightingale ; 
And from a hermitage of shade 
Fills with her voice the forest-glade. 



And sweeter tar that melting voice. 
Than all which through the day rejoice 
And still shall bard and wanderer love 
The twilight music of the grove. 



53 

Father in Heaven ! oh ! thus when day 
With all its cares has passed away, 
And silent hours waft peace on earth, 
And hush the louder strains of mirth ; 

Thus may sweet songs of praise and prayer 
To Thee my spirit's offering bear; 
Yon star, my signal, set on high, 
For vesper-hymns of piety. 

So may thy mercy and thy power 
Protect me through the midnight hour ; 
And balmy sleep and visions blest 
Smile on thy servant's bed of rest. 



54 



THE NORTHERN SPRING. 



When the sott breath of Spring goes Ibrth 
Far o'er the mountains of the Nortli, 
How soon those wastes of dazzHng snow 
With life, and bloom, and beauty glow. 



Then bursts the verdure of the plains. 
Then break the streams from icy chains : 
And the glad rein-deer seeks no more 
Amidst deep snows his mossy store. 



55 

Then the dark pine-wood's boughs are seen 
Arrayed in tints of living green ; 
And roses, in their brightest dyes, 
By Lapland's founts and lakes arise. 



Thus, in a moment, from the gloom 
And the cold fetters of the tomb, 
Thus shall the blest Redeemer's voice 
Call forth his servants to rejoice. 



For He, whose word is truth, hath said, 
His power to life shall wake the dead. 
And summon those he loves, on high. 
To " put on immortality !'* 



56 

Then, all its transient sufferings o'er. 
On wings of light, the soul shall soar, 
Exulting, to that blest abode, 
Where tears of sorrow never flowed. 



57 



PARAPHRASE OF PSALM CXLVIII. 



Praise ye the Lord. Praise ye the Lord from the 
heavens : praise him in the heights. 



Praise ye the Lord ! on every height 

Songs to his glory raise ! 
Ye angel-hosts, ye stars of light, 

Join in immortal praise ! 



58 

Oh! heaven of heavens ! let praise far-swelling 

From all your orbs be sent ! 
Join in the strain, yc waters, dwelling 
Above the fu-mament ! 



For His the word which gave you birtii. 

And majesty, and might ; 
Praise to the Highest from the earth. 

And let the deeps unite ! 



Oh ! fire and vapor, hail and snow. 

Ye servants of His will ! 
Oh ! stormy winds, that only blow 

His mandates to fulfil ; 



59 

Mountains and rocks, to heavens that rise ; 

Fair cedars of the wood ; 
Creatures of Ufe, that wing the skies, 

Or track the plains for food : 



Judges of nations ! kings, whose hand 
Waves the proud sceptre high I 

Oh ! youths and virgins of the land. 
Oh ! age and infancy ! 



Praise ye His name, to whom alone 

All homage should be given; 
Whose glory, from th' eternal throne 

Spreads wide o'er earth and heaven ! 

968752A 



60 



CHRIST WALKLXG ON THE 
WATERS. 

Fear was within the tossing bark, 
When stormy winds grew loud, 

And waves came roHing high and dark, 
And the tall mast was bow'd, 



And men stood breathless in their dread, 

And baffled in their skill — 
But One was there, who rose, and said 

To the wild sea, " Be still /" 




^miEEi^ W-^EalSIIW© ©]W "iflllll W£^Wm'l!l§c 



61 

And the wind ceased — it ceased ! — that word 
Passed through the gloomy sky ; 

The troubled billows knew their Lord, 
And fell beneath His eye. 



And slumber settled on the deep, 

And silence on the blast ; 
They sank, as flowers that fold to sleep 

When sultry day is past. 



Oh ! Thou, that in its wildest hour 
Didst rule the tempest's mood, 

Send thy meek spirit forth in power, 
Soft on our souls to brood. 



62 

Thou that didst bow the billow's pride, 

Thy mandate to fulfil, 
Oh ! speak to passion's raging tide, 

Speak, and say, ''Peace, he still P' 



63 



TO ONE OF THE AUTHOR'S 
CHILDREN 

ON HIS BIRTHDAY, AUGUST 27, 1826. 

Thou wak'st from happy sleep to play 
With bounding heart, my boy ! 

Before thee lies a long bright day 
Of summer and of joy. 

Thou hast no heavy thought or dream 

To cloud thy fearless eye ; — 
Long be it thus — Hfe's early stream 

Should still reflect the sky. 



64 

Yet ere the cares of life lie dim 

On thy young spirit's wings, 
Now in thy morn forget not Him 

From whom each pure thought springs ! 

So in the onward vale of tears, 

Where'er liiy path may be, 
When strength hath bowed to evil years 

He will remember thee. 







THE 


INSECT WORLD; 

OR, 

A BRIEF OUTLINE 


OF 

THE CLASSIFICATION, STRUCTURE, 
AND ECONOMY OF INSECTS. 


“ The wisdom of the Workman is commonly perceived in that 


which is of little size.” 















The design of this little volume is to induce 
those young persons who deem the Insect In-
habitants of the earth fit rather for “ cleanly 



riddance,” than for curious regard, more atten¬ 
tively to observe the exquisite structure and 
astonishing instincts which they display. A 
close examination of the wonders revealed in 
the Insect World cannot fail to produce the 
conviction, that the power, the wisdom, and the 
superintending providence of God, are as truly 
manifested in the meanest fly that sports upon 
the gale, as in the magnificent forms and high 
endowments of the most exalted of created beings. 












































 Caterpillar of Nettle-butterfly, ( Papilio urtica.) 

Caterpillar of Phalsena Grossulariata ( Geometer 

caterpillar,) 
Larva of Ant-lion; 

Egg of Gnat, highly magnified. 

One lancet of the Proboscis of the Gnat, highly 

magnified. 

Spiral Tongue of a Butterfly, highly magnified. 

Magnified Head of a Locust, exhibiting the mouth. 

Part of the Membrane of a Nettle-butterfly’s 

Wing magnified, with a few Feathers on each 
side of it. 

Magnified Eye of a Fly. 

Part of a Butterfly’s Eye, magnified 200,000 times. 

Magnified Feathers from various Butterflies. 

Magnified Egg of a Nettle-butterfly. 

Ditto of Cabbage-butterfly. 

 

Larva of Dragon-fly. a . The Mask. 

 Leafy Cocoon of Phalaena Grossulariata. 

 Pupa of ditto. 

 Piece of Honey-comb, with cell of Queen Bee 

attached. 

Nest of Leaf-cutter Bee. 

 Detached segments of Calosoma Sycophanta. 

Foot of Blue-bottle Fly, highly magnified. 



 Coleoptera , —Fire-fly, (Elater noctilucus.) 
 ——— Burying Beetle, (Necrophorus hu - 

mator.) 

 Orthoptera,— Mole Cricket. ( Gryllo-talpa.) 

 Hemipteray — Field-bug, (Pentatoma rufipes.) 

 - - Lantern-fly (Fulgora laternaria,) 

reduced to one half the natural size. 

 Neuroptera ,— Dragon-fly, ( Libellula cancellata.) 
 Hymenoptera,— -common Humble-bee, (Bombus 

terrestris.) 

 Lepidoptera ,— orange-tipped Butterfly, (Pontia 
cardamines.) 

 Diptera,— Blue-bottle-fly, (Musca vomitoria.) 
 — —— Crane-fly, (Pedicia rivosa.) 


The Cicada Tibicen. 




 

















FIRST EVENING. 

Folly of prejudice against insects.—Their various claims 
on our notice.— Estimated number of distinct species.— 
Probability that their metamorphoses suggested many 
of the fables of the Poets, and the doctrine of a metemp¬ 
sychosis.— 1 The Butterfly's Birth-day. .  

SECOND EVENING. 

Four states of insects.—Eggs; varieties of form and 
colour, numbers, enemies.—Parental care of insects; 
of sand-wasps, of earwigs.—Explanation of the term 
larva; of annulose and articulated animals.—Muscular 
power of larvae, head, moutb, voracity, number of 
feet.—Apod larvae, their motions; grub of nut 
weevil; maggot of cheese-fly.—Climbing caterpillars; 
geometricians; processionaries.—Mode of breathing 
of insects.—Insects are nourished by fluids pervading the 
body without a circulating system.—Mask of larva of 
dragon-fly.—Larva of ant-lion.—Length of time that 
insects remain in the larva state. . .  




THIRD EVENING. 

Mode of obtaining pupae; breeding cage for insects.— 
Moulting of larvae .—Preparations for assuming the 
pupa; silk employed by numerous insects.—Explana¬ 
tion of the term pupa; chrysalis, nymph, cased-nymph, 
semi-nymph, complete pupa.—Length of time that 
insects remain in the pupa state.—Many have a fixed 
hour for disclosing the* perfect insect; the silk-worm, 
hawk-moth, ephemerae. 

FOURTH EVENING. 

Appearance of insects on first quitting the puparium — 
Principles of the classfication of insects.—Cuvier’s 
system.—-First four orders apterous , or without wings; 
Myriapoda, Thysanoura, Parasita, and Suctoria.— 
Eight orders with wings; Coleoptera, Orthoptera, 
Hemiptera, Neuroptera, Lepidoptera, Rhipiptera, and 
Diptera.—Distinctions of sex: females usually the 
larger; some wingless.—-Sexes sometimes differ in 
colour; males more ornamented; some have larger 
eyes and antennse; females alone sting; are the more 
industrious and skilful.—Age of insects.  

FIFTH EVENING. 

General form of insects.—Head: eyes; simple con¬ 
glomerate, compound.—Stemmata.—Hearing; antennse 
the probable organs of hearing; of conversation; of 
detecting changes in the atmosphere.—Touch probably 
resides in the palpi and tarsi.—Smell: organs of smell 
and taste probably in the head.—Insects divided into 
Haustellata , or those that suck, and Mandibulata , or 
those that chew.—Various organs of sucking insects; 
the promuscis of bugs, proboscis of flies and gnats, antlia 
of butterflies.—Jaws of insects differ in construction.— 
Lapping insects.—Insects have no voice.  






SIXTH EVENING. 

Structure of insects continued.—Divisions of the body : 
abdomen, trunk, legs.—Immense strength of insects ; 
instanced in locusts, fleas, beetles, &c., and proved by 
their great agility. Linne’s remark upon it. — Adapt¬ 
ation of the legs of insects to their modes of life.— 
Suckers of the feet of flies.—-Insects distinguished by 
the number of joints in their tarsi.— Claws, foot- 
cushions.—Wings of insects.—Flight of the Coleoptera, 
Orthoptera, Neuroptera, Hymenoptera, Lepidoptera, 
and Diptera.—Supposition respecting the employ¬ 
ment of flies.—Speed of their flight.— Covering of the 
wings of insects : of those of the Lepidoptera.—Proofs 
that insects are not endowed with much acuteness of 
feeling.—Modes of catching them. —Proofs that they 
have stated periods of repose analogous to sleep. —Best 
manner of killing and of setting them.  

SEVENTH EVENING. 

Spiders : — particulars in which they differ from insects.— 
Remarkable for their ingenuity in capturing their prey. — 
Eyes, legs, mouth.—Not injurious to man. — Spiders 
article of food.—Their apparatus for spinning.— 
Mode of weaving of the garden spider ; — of the house- 
spider.—Spiders air-balloonists.—Gossamer webs.— 
Spider-silk. -Trap-door spiders.—Diving spiders. 

 


EIGHTH EVENING. 

Pleasure to be derived from an acquaintance with 
nature.—Food of insects.—Vegetable-eating insects;— 
select different plants and different parts of plants;— 
wisdom of this arrangement.—Insects confer benefits 
on vegetation.—The chief cultivators of uninhabited 
lands.—Useful in the fertilization of plants, in 





pruning them of their redundant fruit and leaves; 
in loosening the soil around their roots.—The agency 
of insects valuable in forests.—Locusts; their oc¬ 
casional but fearful ravages.—Mrs. Howitt’s description 
of the locust; that of the prophet Joel.—Locusts 
serviceable within their native boundaries; frequently 
visit Africa; sometimes lay waste parts of Europe; 
have appeared in our own island: Dr. Clarke’s account 
of the different kinds of locusts.—Termites: great 
injuries sometimes sustained from their voracity; 
benefits they confer on tropical countries; manner of 
their operations.—Timber-eating insects in our own 
country.—Benefits conferred by insects on literature 
and the arts: galls; oak-apples; rose-willow; bede- 
guar; lac; kermes; cochineal. Influence of insects 
on commerce: silk; honey; wax; Chinese wax.— 
Insects once used in medicine.—Some useful in the 
present day: ant lint; cantharides.—Insects employed 
as food: various larvae; locusts extensively eaten 
in Africa and the East; termites, a favourite dish 
with the Hottentots and Hindoos.—Galls used as 
dessert.—Lemonade prepared from ants.—The acid of 
ants caused by the nature of their food. Page 


NINTH EVENING; 

Carnivorous insects.—Those that feed on living prey; 
cicindelae, carabi, water beetles, lady-birds; mantis, 
earwigs, nepidse, notonectidse; ant-lion, dragon-fly, lace- 
flies ; ichneumon flies, sand-wasps, ants.—Those that 
feed on dead or decayed substances; larvae of various 
insects; silphse, necrophori.—Those that suck the blood 
of other animals; parasitic insects, fleas, gnats, and 
mosquitoes.—Means employed to prevent the too great 
increase of insects: rains, frosts, inundations; insect- 
catching plants; animals that consume insects; bats, 
birds, fishes, &c.—Calculation on the probable number 
of unknown species. Page  



TENTH EVENING. 

Habitations of insects Structures of hive-bees; of humble 
bees; of carpenter-bees ; of mason-bees; of upholsterer- 
bees story connected with their nests.—Character of 
wasps-their structures; nests of hornets; of paper- 
wasps of Cayenne.—Ant hills ; peculiarity in hillocks 
of yellow ants.—Domestic economy of bees, wasps, 
and ants :—care of their young;—slave-dealiug ants ; 
pastoral ants.—Peculiarities in the instinct of bees:— 
honey; wax; bee-bread ; propolis, employed to fortify 

and defend their combs.—Sentinel bees; robber.bees._ 

Means of defence of insects :—stings ; secretions;—. 
disguisesnoises ;—death-watch; musical cicada,— 
grasshoppers.—Luminous insects :— scolopendra elec- 
trica, glow-worm, fire-flies, lantern-flies.—Various super¬ 
stitions connected with insects :—ignes fatui,—showers 
of blood,—Conclusion.  


OUTLINE 


OF 

BARON CUVIER’S CLASSIFICATION 

OF 

INSECTS & ARACHNIDS ; 

WITH EXAMPLES OF EACH ORDER. 


INSECTS. 

Order 1. Myriapoda,— Wood-lice, Scolopendrae, &c. 

2. Tfiysanoura,- -Spring-tails, &c. 

3. Parasita ,—Lice. 

4. Suctoria, —Fleas. 

5. Coleoptera ,—Beetles, Lady-birds, Fire-flies, 

Glow-worms, &c. 

6. Ortlioptera ,—Grass-hoppers, Crickets, Locusts, 

Earwigs, Mantes, Cock-roaches, &c. 

7. Hemiptera, —Bugs, Water-boatmen, Cicadae, 

Lantern-flies, Aphides, Cocci, &c. 

8. Neuroptera ,—Dragon-flies, Ant-lions, Lace- 

flies, White Ants, Ephemerae, Phryganeae, 
&c. 

9. Hymenoptera, —Bees, Ants, Wasps, Ichneumon- 

flies, Gall-insects, &c. 

10. Lepidoptera ,—Butterflies, Silk-worms, Moths, 

&c. 

11. Rhipiptera ,—Xenos, Stylops. 

12. Diptera ,—Gnats, Mosquitoes, House-flies, 

Gad-flies, Crane-flies, &c. 

ARACHNIDVE. 

Order 1. Pulmonaria— Spiders, Tarantulae, Scorpions. 

2. Trachearice,— Mites, Shepherd's Spiders, &c. 






FIRST EVENING. 

Folly of prejudice against insects—Their various claims 
on our notice—Estimated number of distinct species— 
Probability that their metamorphoses suggested many 
of the fables of the Poets, and the doctrine of a 
metempsychosis—The Butterfly’s Birth-day. 

Olil there is an earwig! said Emma B. jump¬ 
ing from her seat. Disagreeable things, how I 
hate them! I wish I could destroy them all. 

And every insect in existence;—you had better 
clear the earth of them all at once, said her 
brother Frederick, laughing. 

Emma. 

Well, Frederick; it would be a good thing, I 
think, if I could. Insects are odious creatures ; 
I cannot bear them. 

Frederick. 

You would soon have cause to wish for them 




back again, I fancy; not even excepting the 
“disagreeable earwigs.” For my part I consider 
them a most useful and ornamental part of 
creation : to say the truth, I am very fond of them. 

Emma. 

Fond of insects! Frederick ; I am sure nobody 
in their senses can ever be fond of such disagree¬ 
able things. 

Frederick. 

You put me in mind, Emma, of a law-case I 
was reading lately, which occurred nearly two 
hundred years ago, when people generally were 
about as wise on this subject as you are now. 
It was an attempt to set aside a lady’s will on 
the ground of lunacy, of wdiich the only symptom 
alleged was her taste for collecting butterflies. 
You would have pronounced a verdict against 
her without hesitation, I suppose. And yet I 
have often heard you admire the collection in 
the Study. 

Emma. 

O those are dead and cannot annoy any one; 
besides they are so pretty; they are very different 
from the odious things that are always buzzing 
and crawling about. 





Mr. B. 

What is that I just now heard about odious 
things that are always buzzing and crawling about? 
Who is speaking of my little favourites in that 
manner ? 

Emma. 

Papa! y our favourites! you are joking now. 

Mr. B. 

No indeed, Emma, I am not. And if instead of 
indulging in the silly prejudices against insects, 
so common to young ladies, you would examine 
their history a little, I think they would soon 
become your favourites too. 

You are fond of botanv; I have often been 
pleased to observe your skill and diligence in 
collecting and drying specimens, and I think 
your hortus siccus does you great credit; but the 
botanist, Emma, who is not also an entomologist, 
is like a traveller who should content himself 
with describing countries, without taking any 
notice of their inhabitants. 

Entomology has indeed attractions which 
botany cannot boast. A new plant is seldom 
to be met with, even by those who have 
opportunities for the most extensive researches; 





but the study of insects presents an inexhaustible 
fund of new and pleasing entertainment: every 
pool, every stone, every tree or plant, affords fresh 
subjects for curious examination; and how often 
soever our researches may be made, we shall never 
have exhausted this source of interesting amuse¬ 
ment.—But here comes Mamma. 

I am reasoning with your daughter, my dear, 
on the dislike to insects, which I am surprised to 
find her entertaining; I should certainly have 
given her credit for more taste and good sense. 

Mrs. B. 

I have often regretted the foolish prejudice 
which Emma has unhappily imbibed against this 
beautiful and elegant part of creation. She has 
learned it, I suspect, from some of her young com¬ 
panions at school. It is a great pity that girls 
who display good sense on other subjects, and even 
some sensible women too, should exhibit on this 
such unaccountable weakness. 

I well remember once sitting in company with 
a party of very intelligent women, when an unfor¬ 
tunate spider made its appearance on the hearth¬ 
rug. The sudden entrance of a tig er could scarce¬ 
ly have occasioned more consternation. “ Oh! 





there is a spider! ” one of them exclaimed; 
and in a moment they all jumped up on their 
chairs for safety, while I was left to encounter the 
terrific intruder alone. 

Frederick. 

I wish I had been there. How I should 
have laughed to see them! 

Mrs. B. 

Prejudice originates in ignorance: and perhaps 
the best method of correcting these prejudices in 
Emma, if you could spare the time for it, would be 
to give her some instruction on the subject. 
Could you now and then afford us an evening for 



the purpose? 

Mr. B. 

I would willingly make any effort to correct in 
mv dear girl a foible of so injurious a tendency, 
and shall be most happy to attend to your sugges¬ 
tion whenever I can find a leisure hour. She is 
interested in botany; but, as I have just been 
telling her, without an acquaintance also with 
those little inhabitants that confer animation on 
every tree, and shrub, and flower, I might add on 
eveiy stream, and every stone, she will enjoy but 

half the gratification it might afford her. 




6


I ask, for my part, no clearer proof of the exist¬ 
ence of an infinitely wise, skilful, and beneficent 
Creator than that which may be derived from the 
study of insects. As St. Basil beautifully says, 
tc If you speak of a fly, a gnat, or a bee, your 
conversation will be a sort of demonstration of his 
power whose hand formed them.” 

They present too a most striking and delightful 
proof of the minuteness of God’s providential care ; 
for we find that the structure, the food, the habita¬ 
tions, even of those of whose existence w r e were 
ignorant till the microscope discovered them, are 
regulated and provided in a manner as complete 
as those of the largest and apparently most favour¬ 
ed creatures. Surely we may infer from this, 
that nothing in which we are interested is too 
small to be regarded by his eye, and accom¬ 
plished by his love. 

Mrs. B. 

The smallest insects are as exactly finished as 
the most graceful beasts, or the birds of the 
brightest plumage, and often even more gaily 
ornamented. 

Mr. B. 

Your favourite writer, Mr. Kirby, I think says. 




“ These little creatures appear to have been 
Nature's favourite productions, in which, to mani¬ 
fest her power and skill, she has combined and con¬ 
centrated almost all that is either beautiful and 
graceful, interesting and alluring, or curious and 
singular in every other class and order of her 
children. To these, her valued miniatures, she 
has given the most delicate touch and highest 
finish of her pencil. Numbers she has armed 
with glittering mail, which reflects a lustre like 
that of burnished metals; in others she lights up 
the radiance of polished gems. Some she has 
decked with what looks like liquid drops or plates 
of gold and silver; or with scales or pile which 
mimic the colour and emit the rays of the same 
precious metals. To some she has given fins like 
those of a fish, or a beak resembling that of birds; 
to others, horns, nearly the counterparts of those 
of various quadrupeds. The bull, the stag, and 
even the vainly-sought-for unicorn, have, in this 
respect, many representatives among insects. 
One is armed with tusks, not unlike those of 
an elephant; another is bristled with spines, as 
the porcupine and hedgehog with quills; another 
has the disproportionate legs of the kangaroo; 
and a fourth the threatening head of a snake. 





The amazing variety both of ornament and 
form observable in the insect world is indeed 
an endless subject of interesting remark. And 
when we consider that in the structure, even of 
the smallest of them, there are many more com¬ 
ponent parts than in the enormous living masses 
of the elephant or the whale, and observe also 
the agility of their movements, their stratagems, 
their address, their skill, and their industry, we 
are lost in astonishment at the infinite wisdom 
and skill of their almighty Maker. 

Emma. 

I had no idea, Papa, that any thing so interest¬ 
ing could be said of insects. I begin to think 
I should like to know more about them. 

Mr. B. 

In introducing you to an acquaintance with 
insects, my love, I shall introduce you to an 
acquaintance with the first geometricians, the 
first architects, the first miners, the first weavers, 
the first employers of diving-bells and air-pumps, 
the first paper-makers; indeed, with the first 
practisers of various arts on the invention of 
which man vainly prides himself. 





It is not perhaps too much to say, that many 
of these tiny operatives, the bee and the ant for 
example, make a much nearer approach to the 
intellectual superiority of man than any others 
of the animal creation. 

It may also be safely asserted, that the influence 
of insects in the economy of nature is greater than 
that of any other of the inferior classes. They 
hold a kind of universal empire over the earth 
and its inhabitants; an empire to which even 
the proudest monarchs have been forced to bow. 
Often have their desolating hosts laid waste 
extensive -provinces, bringing in their train pesti¬ 
lence and famine. “ Before them,” as the 
prophet Joel speaks, “has been the garden of 
Eden; and behind them, a desolate wilderness.” 

But though sometimes the ministers of God’s 
displeasure, their more usual office is that of 
agents of his mercy. Unceasingly diligent in the 
province assigned them, they preserve the earth, 
the water, and the air, in a state of sufficient 
purity for the habitation and the use of man; and 
hence have been very properly termed, “ The 
great scavengers of nature . 99 




Frederick. 

Do you know, father, what is the number of 
distinct species of insects ? 

Mr. B. 

The number of distinct species already known 
and described cannot be estimated at less than 
twenty thousand; and there can be no doubt 
that numbers have escaped observation, and 
have never yet been described. This is perhaps 
the case even with British insects; with respect 
to exotics, we may well believe that our catalogues 
are far from being complete. Beauty of colour, 
or singularity of form, has generally directed 
the choice of travellers in making their collections; 
to the neglect of multitudes whose humbler guise 
or more retiring habits have concealed them from 
observation. 

Frederick. 

The insects of different countries vary very 
much, do they not? 

Mr. B. 

Yes: the different species of insects, like those 
of vegetables, are circumscribed within geogra¬ 
phical limits. Those of the East Indies, generally 
speaking, differ essentially from those of the West 


 


Indies, and the insects of Africa from both of 
these; the insects of temperate regions differ 
again from those of the torrid zone; and each 
region of the temperate zone has its own peculiar 
insects, which are rarely found elsewhere. 

The intertropieal countries, covered with 
immense forests, the trees of which are watered 
by a superabundant dew, are by far the most 
rich in these brilliant ornaments of nature : Brazil 
and Guiana are especially distinguished by the 
number and beauty of their insect inhabitants, 
and in this respect may perhaps be said to excel 
all other parts of the world. Many of the most 
beautiful specimens in my cabinet are from thence. 

Mrs. B. 

The metamorphoses of insects are to me among 
the most wonderful occurrences of creation. 

Mr. B. 

They are truly astonishing. That the animal, 
which, a few months ago was a wormlike cater¬ 
pillar, slowly crawling on the plant whence it 
derived its nourishment, should be now furnished 
with embroidered wings, 

“Through fields of air prepared to sail, ,r 
is so wonderful a fact, that were it not for its 





continual recurrence, and the minuteness of the 
objects in which it takes place, it would be viewed 
by all with eager curiosity and astonishment. 

Some have conjectured, and I think with a 
great appearance of probability, that the first 
idea of the marvellous metamorphoses which the 
poets recount, originated in an observation of the 
wonderful changes effected in the insect world; 
and that the doctrine of the metempsychosis, or 
transmigration of souls from one body to another, 
took its rise also from the same source. 

[ am the more disposed to think this conjecture 
right, from a quotation I have met with from 
the Institutes of Menu, which are held in high 
veneration by the Hindoos. 

In these Institutes it is declared, that “ A priest 
who hath drunk wine, shall migrate into a moth 
or fly, feeding on ordure. He who stealeth the 
gold of a priest, shall pass a thousand times 
into the bodies of spiders. If a man shall steal 
honey, he shall be born a great stinging gnat; 
if oil, an oil-drinking beetle; if salt, a cicada; 
if a househould utensil, an ichneumon fly.” 

Mrs. B. 

Thus the ignorant heathen, wandering among 





the wilds of an exuberant imagination, with no 
better light than that of human reason to guide 



them, misinterpret the wonders of nature; and 
deduce, from the most striking proofs of divine 
power and goodness, theories dishonourable to 
God, and degrading to man. 

Mr. B. 

And deduce them too from those very facts 
which, when viewed in the light of divine revela¬ 
tion, most pleasingly suggest to the Christian's 
mind the thought of that last, grand hope to 
which the gospel points. 

Frederick. 

You mean the Resurrection. 

Mr. B. 

Yes : I never witness these changes without 
being powerfully reminded of that glorious day 
when this mortal shall put on immortality; and 
feeling disposed to ask with the Apostle, Why 
should it be thought a thing incredible that God 
should raise the dead ?—that that divine energv, 
which thus continually revivifies nature, and repro¬ 
duces beings, after a period of death-like repose, in 

forms so totallv different from those under which 



they had previously existed, should also change 





these vile bodies, and raising them to a new life, 
should adorn them with a beauty and glory, and 
endow them with capacities and faculties of which, 
in our present state, we can form no conception. 

Mrs. B. 

You just now quoted a line from my favourite 
little piece, The Butterfly’s Birth-day. The poem 
would please the young folks ; perhaps you will 
favour us by reciting it. 

Mr. B. 

With pleasure. 

The shades of night were scarcely fled ; 

The air was mild, the winds were still; 

And slow the slanting sunbeams spread 
O’er wood and lawn, o’er heath and hill: 

From fleecy clouds of pearly hue 
Had dropt a short but balmy shower, 

That hung like gems of morning dew 
On every tree and every flower : 

And from the blackbird’s mellow throat 
Was pour’d so loud and long a swell, 

As echoed with responsive note 
From mountain side and shadowy dell: 

When, bursting forth to life and light, 

The offspring of enraptured May, 

The Butterfly, on pinions bright, 

Launch’d in full splendour on the day. 


 


Unconscious of a mother’s care, 

No infant wretchedness she knew ; 

But as she felt the vernal air, 

At once to full perfection grew. 

Her slender form, ethereal light, 

Her velvet-textured wings enfold ; 

With all the rainbow’s colours bright, 
And droptwith spots of burnish’d gold. 

Trembling with joy a while she stood, 
And felt the sun’s enlivening ray; 

Drank from the skies the vital flood, 
And wonder’d at her plumage gay ! 

And balanc’d oft her broider’d wings, 
Through fields of air prepared to sail; 
Then on her vent’rous journey springs, 
And floats along the rising gale. 

Go, child of pleasure, range the fields, 
Taste all the joys that spring can give, 
Partake what bounteous summer yields, 
And live whilst yet ’tis thine to live. 

Go, sip the rose’s fragrant dew, 

The lily’s honey’d cup explore; 

From flower to flower the search renew, 
And rifle all the woodbine’s store ; 

And let me trace thy vagrant flight, 

Thy moments too of short repose, 

And mark thee then with fresh delight, 
Thy golden pinions ope and close. 





But,hark! whilst thus I musing stand, 
Pours on the gale an airy note; 

And, breathing from a viewless band, 

Soft silv’ry tones around me float! 

They cease—but still a voice I hear, 

A whisper'd voice of hope and joy, 

“ Thy hour of rest’s approaching near,— 
Prepare thee, mortal! thou must die ! 

“ Yet, start not!—on thy closing eyes 
Another day shall still unfold, 

A sun of milder radiance rise, 

A happier age of joys untold. 

“ Shall the poor worm that shocks thy sight, 

The humblest form in Nature’s train, 

Thus rise in new-born lustre bright, 

And vet the emblem teach in vain ? 



” Ah ! where w r ere once her golden eyes, 
Her glittering wings of purple pride ? 
Conceal’d beneath a rude disguise, 

A shapeless mass, to earth allied. 

“ Like thee the hapless reptile lived, 

Like thee he toil’d, like thee he spun, 

Like thine his closing hour arrived, 

His labour ceased, his web was done. 

“ And shalt thou, number'd with the dead, 
No happier state of being know? 

And shall no future morrow shed 
On thee a beam of brighter glow ? 





“ Is this the bound of power divine, 

To animate an insect frame ? 

Or shall not He who moulded thine 
Wake at his will the vital flame ? 

Cl Go, mortal! in thy reptile state, 

Enough to know to thee is given; 

Go, and the joyful truth relate; 

Frail child of earth ! high heir of heaven !” 


Emma. 

Thank you, Papa; it is a beautiful poem. 
It makes me long to hear more about these 
changes. I really begin to be yerv much 
interested in insects. 

Mr. B. 

I am glad, my loye, if your interest is excited 
on a subject which I have myself pursued with 
so much delight. It will be, I assure you, a 
gratifying task to give you such a familiar intro¬ 
duction to it, as your Mamma proposes. I 
think you will find in the history of insects 
much to amuse and much to instruct you ; 
and that as we go on, you will acknowledge 
that I have not too warmly recommended a study 



so replete with interesting wonders. 




It is indeed matter of surprise to me, that 
subjects such as these, which have so direct a 
tendency to cultivate the taste, and to induce 
habits of observation, and a fondness for the 
simple pleasures of nature, are not more generally 
pursued by young ladies. 


SECOND EVENING. 


Four states of insects.—Eggs, varieties of form and 
colour, numbers, enemies.—Parental care of insects, 
of sand wasps, of earwigs.—Explanation of the term 
larva, of annulose and articulated animals.—Muscular 
power of larvse, head, mouth, voracity, number of 
feet.—Apod larvae, their motions; grub of nut 
weevil; maggot of cheese fly.—Climbing caterpillars; 
geometricians; processionaries.—Mode of breathing 
of insects.—Insects are nourished by fluids pervading the 
body without a circulating system.—Mask of larva of 
dragon fly.—Larva of ant lion.—Length of time that 
insects remain in the larva state. 

I am under a promise, Emma, said Mr. B., 
of giving von a little peep into the wonders of 
the insect world ; and if it will be agreeable to 
you and Mamma, I shall be happy to devote 
this evening to the subject. 

Emma. 

Thank you, Papa. I have been longing 
rather impatiently tor your first leisure evening. 

Mr. B. 

In giving you this peep, it is not my intention 





to burden you with any thing that you might 
consider dry . My only object will be to give 
you such a general and familiar view of the 
economy of this interesting part of creation, 
as may bespeak for it your favourable regard; 
and induce you still further to pursue a study 
so well calculated to amuse a leisure hour, and 
to fill up the vacuities of thought with profitable 
contemplations. 

Most insects pass through four distinct states: 
the egg, the caterpillar, the chrysalis, and the 
perfect insect; or, to speak scientifically, the 
egg, the larva, the pupa, and the imago. I 
am not fond of the pedantry of using scientific 
words, when those in common use would answer 
the purpose as well; but as we have no terms 
in our language that apply to the different states 
of all insects, it is more convenient, when we 
speak of them generally, to employ those whieh 
have been invented for the purpose. 

Emma. 

I suppose then caterpillars, maggots, and grubs, 
are all called larva ? 

Mr. B. 

Yes: the term larva is applied to all insects 





in their second state, and pupa in their third. 
The words caterpillar, maggot, grub, and chrysalis, 
nymph, semi-nymph, cased-nymph, &c. definitely 
pointing out the sort of larva or pupa meant; 
just as in botany, you know, the common term 
pericarp applies to all seed vessels; while the 
several kinds are designated by the names capsule, 
silicle, legume, berry, &c. 

To begin then with these little creatures where 
Nature begins, I must first tell you a little about 
them in their egg state; though some say that 
the egg ought not to be called a state at all; 
because the insect does not exist till it is hatched 
into life. We shall not attempt, however, to 
settle this question. 

The egg's of insects alone would furnish materials 



for an interesting little volume. 

One peculiarity in them is the great variety 
of their forms. The eggs of birds are, as you 
know, nearly all of the same shape; but those of 
insects present almost every conceivable variety 
of outline, as well as of ornament and colour. 

I have put a few into the microscope. This 
is the egg of a nettle butterfly.* 



Emma. 

How curious! it looks like a little melon. 

Mr. B. 

And this is one of a cabbage butterfly.* 

Emma. 

0 that is prettier still; it is in the shape of 
an oil-flask, and looks as if it were made of 
fine Indian wicker-work. How exactly and 
delicately all the longitudinal ridges are con¬ 
nected by lines crossing them ! 

Mr. B. 

This is a gnat’s eggf; can you find a com¬ 
parison for it? 

Emma. 

The form is extremely elegant; I think it 
is like some antique vase I have seen. 

Mr. B. 

The variety of colours is also remarkable. 
Most are white when first laid; but after a 
little exposure to the air, some turn red, others 
green, blue, orange, or black. Some too are 
beautifully speckled and others are striped. This 
gnat’s egg, you observe, already looks green¬ 
ish; it will soon become entirely green, and at 
length, before hatching will turn grey- 
* Plate I. Fig. 13. f Plate I. Fig. 4. 


Another peculiarity in the eggs of insects is the 
great number usually deposited. In this, how¬ 
ever, different species vary considerably. There 
is one kind of fly that lays only two eggs; and 
there are other flies that lay only six or eight. 



The flea lays, twelve; and the burying beetle 
thirty. There are exceptions to the remark. Of 
other insects the number varies from one hundred 
eggs to two hundred thousand and even more. 
The silk-worm moth lays, I believe, five hundred; 
the great goat moth, a thousand; the tiger moth, 
sixteen hundred; the female wasp, at least thirty 
thousand ; and the queen bee sometimes forty or 
fifty thousand. With the exception of fishes, in¬ 
sects exceed in fecundity all other orders of animals. 

Emma. 

It seems then unaccountable that they are not 
still more numerous than we find them to be. 

Mr. B. 

They have various enemies in every stage of 
their progress from the egg to the mature state. 
The unhatched eggs often fall a prey to the larvae 
first extruded; and of those that are hatched, 
vast numbers are destroyed by birds, and other 
insectivorous creatures. It has been calculated 





that a single pair of sparrows, having young ones 
to maintain, will destroy more than three thousand 
caterpillars in a week. They have also foes among 
their own class; of which the most remarkable 
are the little four winged flies, called by Linnaeus 
ichneumons , from the resemblance of their proceed¬ 
ings with caterpillars to the fabled proceedings 
of the Egyptian ichneumon with the crocodile. 
These little enemies, some of which are scarcely 
so big as ants, do the work of destruction among 
the larvae of different insects far more efficiently 
than could be done by any human means. 

One of these minute murderers has been seen to 
perch on the back of an unwary caterpillar, and 
gently piercing the insect’s skin in various places, 
to deposit as many as thirty eggs. The grubs of 
these eggs, when hatched, feed on the body of the 
caterpillar; and when full grown, eat their way 
out, leaving their victim to die. 

Another interesting subject of remark in connec¬ 
tion with the eggs of insects, is the care exhibited 
by the parent for their protection. 

Some, as the various species of spiders, and one 
family of water-beetles, spin a silken pouch in 
which to enclose them; others smear them over 





with varnish ; and many, whose eggs are tender, 
or have to resist the wet and cold of winter, defend 
them in a most skilful manner with a covering of 
different kinds of substance: I have read of one 
species of moth, of which the mother actually makes 
a shelter for them of hair stripped from her own 
bodv. She first forms a soft couch of this hair on 
the surface of some leaf; she then places upon it 
successive layers of eggs, and surrounds them 
with a similar downy covering; and when the 
whole number is deposited, covers the surface 
with a roofing of hairs. Those used for the interior 
are placed without order; but those employed 
externally are arranged with as much skill as 
the tiles on a house, and as effectually keep 
out the water; one layer resting partly on the 
other, and all having the same direction, so 
that the whole resembles a well-brushed piece 
of fur. 

Several insects make leaves, and other parts 
of plants serve as coverings for their eggs. 
Some of the saw-flies, for instance, make an 
incision with their saws in the green twigs of 
a shrub or tree, and fill it with a line of eggs 
placed end to end, taking care to leave room 
for the growth of the eggs. 



Mrs. B. 

What instinctive skill! But I was not aware 
that the eggs of insects grow. 

Mr. B. 

Some do; particularly those of the saw-flies, 
the gall-flies, and the ants. They usually in¬ 
crease to double their original size before they 
are hatched. 

Emma. 

Do all insects cover their eggs ? 

Mr. B. 

No, not all. The only care of some is to 
place them upon or near the food appropriated 
to the young larvae. This is never neglected; 
for there are no improvident parents in the 
insect world. Most butterflies and moths attach 
their eggs to the stems, twigs, and leaves, or 
embryo fruits of trees or plants. The lady¬ 
birds and some others deposit theirs in the 
midst of plant lice; the flesh-flies generally 
gum theirs upon flesh; the house-fly lays hers 
in horse-dung; those of crickets and grasshoppers 
are buried in the earth; and those of the gnat are 



set afloat upon the water; two or three hundred of 
them being glued together, side by side, so as very 
much to resemble in shape a little life-boat. 

 


Mrs. B. 

I believe few insects neglect order in the dis¬ 
posal of their eggs. 

Mr. B. 

No: “ Order is Heaven’s first law/’ and it 
prevails in all the unfallen parts of God’s creation. 
Sometimes, it is true, the eggs are placed in what 
appears a confused mass; but in most instances 
they are arranged in various, and frequently in very 
beautiful modes. The common cabbage butterfly, 
and many others, place them upon one end, side 
by side, like a close column of soldiers; the eggs 
of the emperor moth are piled in two or more 
lines like bottles of wine in a bin ; and the lackey 
moth, whose eggs you may often find in winter, 
surrounding the twigs of fruit-trees, arranges them 
in numerous circles with such admirable art, that 
you would take them rather for pearls, set by the 
hand of a jeweller, than for the eggs of an insect. 
The French gardeners call them bracelets. 

Some insects deposit their eggs singly; but still 
with the same attention to the safety of the egg, 
and the future wants of the offspring. The nut 
and the acorn-weevil pierce a nut or an acorn 
while soft, with the r long beak, and then deposit 




in the hole an egg, the maggot of which is supplied 
by the kernel with appropriate food. 

Emma. 

I have often found plums and other fruits 
maggoty. I suppose the egg was laid in the 
fruit by the parent insect. 

Mr. B. 

Yes: the eggs are often glued to the embryo 
fruit, even before the petals fall off; so that the 
caterpillars, on being disclosed, find themselves 
on a tender germ, which they easily pierce, and 
into the interior of which they can without 
difficulty introduce themselves. It is remarkable 
that the peach and the apricot are entirely free 
from such intrusions. 

But the most singular labour of the parent 
insect, in making provision for its offspring, is 
that of the sand wasps. It was first noticed 
by Ray, one of our earliest entomologists, nearly 
two hundred years ago, and has been frequently 
verified since. There are several species of these 
insects, but the proceedings of them all are similar. 
They first dig in the sand or earth a cylin¬ 
drical cavity of the requisite dimensions, and 
having deposited an egg at the bottom, enclose 




along with it one or more caterpillars, spiders, 
or other insects, as a provision for the young 
when hatched, and sufficiently abundant to nourish 
it till it becomes a pupa. These victims are put 
in alive ; and if, as is not unfrequently the case, 
they attempt to defend themselves, a few stings 
effectually deprive them of all power of resistance. 

The mason wasps do nearly the same. They 
bury with the egg eight or nine small green cater¬ 
pillars, selecting such as having attained their 
full size, will themselves require no more food. 
To prevent the possibility of injury to the egg, 
they coil the caterpillars one above another in 
a series of rings, and consolidate the earth so 
firmly around them, that they have not the 
slightest power of resistance. In this position 
the poor captives remain confined, till the grub 
of the wasp, awaking to life, devours them. 

But I am entering on an almost endless subject • 
for every different species of insect has some plan, 
peculiar to its kind, of making provision for its off¬ 
spring ; though, in most cases, that offspring it will 
never live to see. As I before remarked, there is 
no insect that u provides not for its own, ” 



Mrs. B, 

It would be well if some parents among mankind 
would take a lesson from them. 

Mr. B. 

It would indeed. 

Emma. 

Are the eggs in general long in hatching ? 

Mr. B. 

They vary very much in the time requisite 
for that purpose; some require only a few hours, 
others, several months. Much of course depends 
on the temperature of the atmosphere. 

The eggs of many flesh-flies are hatched in 
our climate in twenty-four hours; those of bees 
in three days; while those of beetles, and indeed 
of some butterflies too, require from one to nine 
months. The eggs of most insects laid in autumn 
remain unhatched till the following spring. 

Emma. 

I suppose no insects hatch their own eggs 
as birds do, 

Mr. B. 

Not exactly as birds do, certainly; for as 
insects generally have no vital heat, they cannot 
impart any. There are one or two.* however^. 





that have been observed to brood over their eggs 
and their voung ones too. One insect to which I 



believe you have a peculiar aversion does this. 

Emma. 

0 Papa! never refer again, if you please, to my 
silly prejudices. I am quite ashamed of them. 

Mr. B. 

Then I may venture to introduce to you a female 



earwig, as an insect that very nearly approaches the 
habits of the anxious hen in her care of her 
family. She absolutely sits upon her eggs, as if 
to hatch them ; and when they are hatched, broods 
over her young ones with the greatest tenderness, 
suffering them to creep under her and to push 
between her feet, just as chickens do under a hen. 

Emma. 

I should much like to see it for mvself. 



Mr. B. 

You seem a little sceptical on the subject; but I 
can assure you it has been repeatedly observed. 
Should you ever be so diligent an entomologist as 
to turn up stones embedded in the earth to discover 
the inhabitants that may be under them, you will, 
in all probability, at some time be gratified by the 
sight of a mother earwig thus brooding over a 
cluster of young ones. 





Here comes Frederick. I hope he has been 
successful in his search. I requested him to go 
this afternoon into the shrubbery and gardens, or 
wherever he thought he should be most likely to 
succeed, to find for us as many caterpillars and 
grubs as he could; for it is always best, where it 
is practicable, to have the living insect before us. 

Frederick. 

Well, Father : I think you will say that I have 
executed your commission with some success. 
Here are caterpillars, grubs, and maggots of various 
sorts and sizes. Thomas went with me, and 
having provided ourselves with a large cloth which 
we fixed underneath the boughs and as close to 
them as we could, we brushed nearly every shrub 
and tree in the grounds and in the neighbouring 
copse; and I can assure you we have literally 
left no stone unturned. 

Mr. B. 

We are all much obliged by your diligent ex¬ 
ertions. You have indeed brought a variety of 
larvae, and I am glad to see that you have put into 
the box with each a supply of its appropriate food. 

Emma. 

I never saw such a collection of caterpillars 
and grubs before! 





Mrs. B. 

Do you not admire their beauty and variety '? 
There are scarcely two at all alike. Some are all 
of one colour, others are of different colours, very 
bright and gaily contrasted; some are marked in 
longitudinal stripes; some, in bands; and some, in 
waves. Some again have a soft smooth skin; 
others have it rough, almost like shagreen; and 
others have as beautiful a coat of hair as our 
tortoise-shell cat. 

Mr. B. 

One colour, so far as utility to the insect is com 
cerned, would probably be as good as another. 
The only assignable reason for such a variety there¬ 
fore, appears to be our gratification. And thus it 
is in every department of nature; wherever we 
look, we find the beautiful as well as the useful ; 
that which is pleasant to the sight, as well as that 
which is necessary to the purposes of creation. It 
is remarkable that the colours of caterpillars, with 
few exceptions, are very different indeed from those 
of the insects into which they are transformed. 
Plain and inconspicuous caterpillars will some¬ 
times give splendidly coloured flies ; while finely 
marked caterpillars will give plain ones. This 
caterpillar, (Bombyx Neustria) for instance, 




whose gaudy stripes of blue, white, and red, have 
obtained for it the name of lackey , will disclose a 
yellowish moth, with stripes on the wings of 
yellow brown. 

Emma. 

The caterpillars are certainly very pretty; but 
do not you think, Mamma, that some of the grubs 
are disgusting looking creatures ? 

Mrs. B. 

I do not call them disgusting , Emma. Nothing 
deserves to be so called that keeps the place, and 
fulfils the purpose, for which providence designed 
it. Their naked, unadorned appearance is not 
perhaps inviting; but you should remember that 
they have been brought from their hiding places 
under the turf or stones; and that they were not in¬ 
tended to meet the human eye till, on attaining their 
perfect state, they assumed their beautiful covering. 

Mr. B. 

You understand, Emma, that these are insects in 
their second or larva state. But I ought to ex¬ 
plain to you that larva is a Latin word signifying 
a mask; and that it was adopted by Linn£, be¬ 
cause the insect, such as it afterwards appears, lies 
masked as it were, or concealed, under this extern 
nal form 9 




Emma. 

Do you mean to say, Papa, that a butterfly lies 
concealed in this caterpillar ? 

Mr. B. 

Yes, my dear. The butterfly, with its organs in¬ 
deed in an almost fluid state, but still perfect in all 
its parts, lies encased within the caterpillar. Of 
this fact it would be easy to convince you, by 
boiling a full grown caterpillar for a few minutes, 
or by laying it for a few days in vinegar or spirits 
of wine, for the purpose of giving consistency to 
its parts; a veiy rough dissection would then 
discover to you the future butterfly. Its wdngs 
you would see rolled up into a sort of cord, and 
lodged between the first and second segment 
of the body; the antennae and trunk, coiled up in 
front of the head ; and the legs, however different 
in form, actually sheathed in the present legs of 
the insect. 

You observe that instead of an internal skeleton, 
the covering of the body in these larvae is divided 
into a certain number of rings jointed together. 
On this account, insects are sometimes called 
annulose animals, from annulus , a ring; and some¬ 
times articulated animals, from articulus , a joints 




These rings are united by bands of muscles, 
which enable them to bend the body with ease, in 
any direction, as you see they all can do. 

Mrs. B. 

The muscular power of caterpillars must be 
very great. I have frequently observed them 
fixed by their hind legs only, to a branch, and 
looking like a little twig of it, and in that position 
sustaining themselves for a considerable time with¬ 
out the least motion.* 

Mr. B. 

The number of muscles which their bodies 
contain is immense. Lyonet counted those in the 
body of the caterpillar of the great goat moth, 
(Cossus Ligntyerda) and found altogether four 
thousand and sixty-one. In the human subject, 
I believe, not more than five hundred and twenty- 
nine have been counted; so that this minute animal 
has three thousand five hundred and thirty-two 
muscles more than a man. 

The various attitudes they assume, are indeed a 
sufficient proof of the number and strength of their 
muscles. 

Let us look for a minute at the heads of these 
larvae. They are, you observe, of a horny sub- 




stance, and are all naked, whatever may be the 
covering of the other parts of the body. 

Emma. 

And where not of the same colour as the body, 
they seem to be all of a reddish brown. 

Mr. B. 

That is the most usual colour of the head. 

Frederick. 

Have insects in the larva state the sense of sight ? 

Mr. B. 

Many have not; but a still greater number have. 
With few exceptions, however, the eyes are simple, 
and do not present the same complexity of struc¬ 
ture as in the perfect insect. Most caterpillars 
have twelve such eyes, but so minute that they 
are nearly invisible without the aid of a microscope. 
They have also, most of them at least, that 
beautiful appendage to the head of the perfect 
insect, antennae: though generally speaking, of a 
much smaller and plainer form. 

Emma. 

It is unnecessary to ask whether they have 
mouths: how rapaciously most of them are de¬ 
vouring the leaves! 




Mrs. B. 

O yes: they have all mouths, and mouths well 
furnished with implements of destruction. Most 
of them have something analogous to jaws and 
teeth, of a hard horny substance, and moved by 
powerful muscles. The jaws of a caterpillar do 
not act perpendicularly, as ours do, but horizon¬ 
tally, or from side to side. Generally speaking, 
they are slightly bent, something in the form of a 
reaping hook, and are made to meet like the blades 
of a pair of pincers. Altogether they are a 
formidable apparatus, well adapted to their purpose. 

Emma. 

Only look, Frederick, this caterpillar has nearly 
consumed this large leaf already! 

Mr. B. 

A caterpillar may be compared to an Indian 
hunter; it issues from the egg, as he does from 
his hut, with a keen appetite. The quantity larvse 
eat is astonishing. A cabbage caterpillar will 
consume more than twice its own weight in twenty- 
four hours; and the maggots of many flesh flies 
will in a night and day, devour so much as to in¬ 
crease their weight two hundred fold. 




Mrs. B. 

I tliink I have read that a silk worm consumes 
within thirty days, about sixty thousand times its 
original weight. 



Mr. B. 

The weight of the silk worm at first, is to be 
sure, very minute, and its growth rapid; so that 
it is difficult to institute a comparison between it 
and other creatures; but it appears a prodigious 
consumption. A human being in health would 
require I suppose in the same time, about once 
his own weight of solid and liquid aliment. 

Frederick. 

Did not Linne say that the larvae of three 
blue-bottle flies would consume the carcass of a 
horse as quickly as a lion would ? 

Mr. B. 

Yes: and I do not think it is an exaggerated 
description of their voracity. Some flies of that 
species produce twenty thousand larvae. Sixty 
thousand of these insects, each consuming in 
twenty-four hours two hundred times its own 
weight, would do something towards demolishing 



even a larger carcass. 

It appears indispensable for most insects, in 




this stage of their existence, to feed copiously, 
in order to supply a store of nutriment for their 
future changes; and their intestines are almost all 
stomach for receiving and digesting the masses of 
food they consume; but when they attain their 
perfect state, the stomach is reduced to a thread, 
and many of them eat nothing at all. 

Emma. 

What a number of legs the caterpillars have! 

Mr. B. 

None of them have more than six proper legs, 
which are placed in three pairs near the head. 
The other little processes which you take for legs, 
are merely tubercles, or false feet, wdiich serve to 
support the length of the body, and sometimes act 
as cramps in walking; but, generally speaking, they 
have no joints, and consequently no free motion. 

It is only the caterpillars, you observe, that have 
these jirolegs, as they are called. These grubs of 
beetles, you see, have only the six proper legs; 
and the grubs and maggots of many other kinds 
of insects have no legs at all. Those larvae that 
have legs are called pedate larvae, or larvae with 
feet; those that have none, apod larvae, or larvae 
without feet. 





You must not, however, suppose that those 
without feet are therefore incapable of motion. In 
general, their mode of life makes a frequent 
change of place less necessary to them than it 
is to the pedate larvae ; but, I assure you, they 
can move when occasion requires it, and some 
of them verv nimbly too : some walk, others 
jump, and others swim, notwithstanding their 
want of limbs. 

Emma. 

I suppose the grubs we meet with in nuts 
are among; the walkers. I have often wondered 
how thev manage to move so fast without feet. 

Mr. B. 

The grub of the nut-weevil is a good specimen 
of them. It walks by the alternate contraction 
and extension of the segments of the bodv; 
assisted, perhaps, by the fleshy protuberances 
of its sides; and the maggots of the cheese-fly, 
commonly called hoppers, which revel in our 
richest cheeses, afford an example of the jumpers. 
They effect their tremendous leaps, for truly they 
are so when compared with their size, nearly as 
salmon are said to pass over cataracts, by taking 
the tail in the mouth, and then suddenly letting 





it go. Swammerdam saw one, whose length 
did not exceed the fourth part of an inch, jump 
thus out of a box, six inches in depth; which 
is equal to a leap of a hundred and forty-four 
feet to a man six feet high. 

Mrs. B. 

Swammerdam was a great admirer of this little 
maggot. He speaks, I remember, in high terms 
of its elegance, and of the art and design dis* 
played in its formation, as conveying a strong 
proof that it is the production of infinite power 
and wisdom. 

Mr. B. 

I quite agree with him. Only think how 
wonderful must be the muscular structure that 
enables it to exert such activity! 

Emma. 

You say, Papa, that some larvae swim—are 
there any insects in the sea ? 

Mr. B. 

No: there are no insects inhabiting the sea; 
but many pass the first stage of their existence 
in fresh water. You remember the little boat 
of eggs which the gnat entrusts to the watery 
element; and there are many others, the dragon 





flies, for example, that begin their existence in 
water; where, by feeding on the impurities of 
stagnant ditches and pools, they render us services 
of incalculable value: preventing by their vigi¬ 
lance, putrid exhalations which might produce 
fatal disorders. 

I have here in a tumbler, as a specimen of 
the swimmers, a few grubs of the common gnat. 
During this hot summer weather they may be 
met with in abundance in ditches and waterbutts, 
or any stagnant water. 

Emma. 

They look something like little, transparent, 
whitish shrimps or fishes. 

Mr. B. 

If disposed to descend, you observe, they 
appear to sink by the weight of the body: but 
when they would rise again, it is done by alternate 
contortions of the upper and lower halves of it. 
They thus swim with much celerity. 

It would take long to enumerate all the different 
motions observable in insects, even in their larva 
state; in the pedate larvae especially; some are 
remarkable for the slowness of their pace; others 
run with extreme swiftness ; some jump, and 
others swim. But I cannot dismiss the subject 





without mentioning one species of motion pecu¬ 
liar to them;—I mean their mode of climbing. 
I will put this cabbage-caterpillar on a pane of 
glass, and he will show you their plan. Do 
you not perceive that he has left a visible track 
behind him? Apply the magnifying glass, and 
you will see that that track consists of little silken 
threads, spun in a zigzag manner, and forming 
a sort of rope-ladder, by which he ascends a 
surface he could not otherwise adhere to. The 
silk, as it proceeds from the caterpillar, is a 
gummy fluid which hardens in the air; so that 
the insect has no difficulty in making it stick 
to the glass. 

Many caterpillars that feed upon trees, use 
ropes instead of ladders; particularly the Geo - 
metricians , as they are called. I am glad to 
find that Frederick has brought us specimens 
of them. As these insects have frequent occasion 
to descend from branch to branch, and sometimes 
to the ground, if they were obliged to traverse 
the rugged trunk, their journeys would be tedious 
and fatiguing; but by means of a silken cord 
which they can let down from their own internal 
stores to any length, they can descend conveniently 




and expeditiously, travel where they please, and 
when they wish to return, can find their way 
back to the leaf they had left. Thus they can 
drop themselves from the most lofty trees ; and by 
gathering in, as they go home, the thread they 
spun on their way out, can ascend again with 
great facility. 

Emma. 

I have often seen them hanging by their little 
threads; there is one tree in the garden at school 
famous for them; but we always avoid going 
under it, for fear they should fall upon us.— 
In future I shall look at them with different 
feelings. 

Frederick. 

Just like young ladies at school! 

Mr. B. 

You see then one of the advantages of science; 
it sometimes gives even an attractive charm to 
that which otherwise would be an object of 
disgust. Many caterpillars, however, drop them¬ 
selves in this manner besides those properly called 
Geometricians. 

Emma, 

Why are they called Geometricians ? 




Mr. B. 

Because they seem to imitate geometricians 
by measuring the surface they pass oyer as if 
with a chain. Place this on your hand, and 
you will find that it draws a thread as it goes; 
when it moves, its head is extended as far as 
it can reach with it; then, fastening the thread 
there, it brings up the rest of its body, and 
takes another step; never moving without leaving 
this clue behind it. 

Mrs. B. 

The Processionary caterpillars are the most 
amusing to me in their movements. I remember 
once, as we were travelling, stopping at a plant¬ 
ation of pine-trees to observe some; and very 
interesting it was to see them all issuing from 
their tent in company, and maintaining as exact 
an order in their march as a regiment of soldiers. 
They defiled one by one with an equal and rather 
slow step, the head of the caterpillar which 
followed, touching the tail of its predecessor. 
Sometimes they went in a straight line; some¬ 
times they described a variety of curves, 
resembling beautiful festoons or garlands. Their 
path they carpeted with a silken tapestry of a 




lustrous white, nearly a quarter of an inch in 
breadth. Indeed, they appeared unable to walk 
but on this silken carpet;—for a young friend 
who was with me, was mischievous enough to 
draw her finger across the path, so as to tear 
out a piece of it, by which the poor little travellers 
seemed to be thrown into the greatest embarrass¬ 
ment. They all suddenly stopped, and the march 
appeared suspended, until one, bolder or more 
impatient than the rest, dared to cross the gap. 
The thread it spun in crossing, became a bridge 
for another; and each one, as it successively 
passed, contributing its thread, the path was soon 
repaired. 

Mr. B. 

There is another species of gregarious cater¬ 
pillar that inhabit oak trees, though not found 
in our country, which are more particularly 
called Processionaries. During the heat of the 
day they usually repose, seven or eight hundred 
of them together, in their common habitation ; 
but when the evening hour of repast arrives, 
they quit the nest in procession, and may be 
seen traversing the distance from one tree to 
another, in search of food. A single caterpillar 





opens the march, the others follow in file, and 
sometimes two, three, or four abreast. Such 
perfect order is observed among them that the 
head of one never passes that of another. When 
they find a branch covered with fresh leaves, 
they spread themselves over it, still remaining 
close to each other ; and when they have ter¬ 
minated their repast, they march back to their 
nest in the original order, the same caterpillar 
still taking the lead. 

Emma. 

How pretty it must be to see them! 

What are these little dots or spots along the 
sides of the caterpillars ? I see they all have them, 
and the grubs too. Through the magnifying 
glass they have a very curious appearance. 

Mr. B. 

I am glad you have asked the question. They 
are called spiracles , and are the little apertures 
through which the insect breathes. 

Emma. 

Indeed! 

Mr. B. 

Insects in all their states breathe through these 
spiracles, or something analogous to them, and 






in most, they are placed along the sides. Some 
larvae that are intended to feed on flesh or dung, 
or other adhesive food, have instead respiratory 
plates, two at the head and two at the tail, and so 
arranged as to secure them from being stopped up 
by any unctuous matter; and the larvae of gnats 
and other aquatic insects have a curious breathing 
apparatus near the tail. You see these all have 
their tails at the surface of the water. Spiders 
also are an exception; they have gills instead of 
spiracles. 

The discoveries of modern science have satis¬ 
factorily proved that the physiology of insects 
differs in many essential particulars from that of 
the higher orders of animals. It was once 
supposed that 

. -each within its little bulk contains 

A heart that drives the torrent through the veins 

but it is now clearly ascertained that as the minute 
structures and short-lived existence of insects do 
not require so complicated an apparatus of life as 
is needed by creatures of larger size and longer 
duration, they have neither veins nor heart, and 
consequently no “torrent” passing through them : 
and that they are nourished by fluids pervading 




every part of the body without circulation; while, 
a s I have just said, they receive air by apertures 
conveniently placed along the sides. 

Frederick. 

I went down to the river to see if I could 
find the larva of a dragon fly, that Emma might 
be entertained with a sight of its curious mask; 
but I am sorry to say, I did not succeed. 

Mrs. B. 

I have in my portfolio a sketch of one, from 
which, with Papa’s assistance, she will form a 
very good idea of it.—Here it is. 

Mr. B. 

This is a very correct delineation of one of these 
murderous insects. The mask* is represented as 
applied close to and covering the face : it does so 
while the insect is at rest, or waiting for prey; 
but no sooner does the unwary victim approach, 
than the ferocious little animal first opens the 
upper part of it, which is formed of two jaw¬ 
like plates; then, having by means of [a joint 
at the chin, let down the whole visor, and un¬ 
covered the face, it catches up the prey by means 
of these plates, which it uses as arms, and conveys 



it to its mouth. Reaumur once found one of 
them thus holding and devouring a large tadpole. 

Emma. 

What a giant Grim ! 

Frederick. 

I was unexpectedly successful in capturing 
another larva, belonging, I believe, to the same 
order as the dragon-fly, and one that equally 
deserves the name of giant Grim . As I passed 
by the southern wall of the old castle, I spied 
a hole in the sand-bank; seeing two horns 
peeping out, I guessed at the tenant, and seized 
the giant in his lurking place, I have him here 
in a box filled with sand. 

Mr. B. 

An ant-lion, have you! You have indeed been 
very successful this evening. 

Emma. 

I am glad of that. I have often read of the 
cunning contrivances of the ant-lion; but I have 
no idea what sort of a creature it is. 

Mr. B. 

We will open the box, and you shall see.* 
You observe that it is of a greyish colour; and 




that it has six feet, and a body remarkably thick, 
in proportion to the corslet and head. The head, 
you see, is very small, and is armed with two 
horns, which answer the purpose of pincers and 
suckers. 

Emma. 

How very slender the legs are in comparison 

with the body ! 



Mr. B. 

It could not catch its prey by running, as you 
will easily believe; for it cannot run at all; and 
when it walks, it w r alks backwards, and very 
slowly; it therefore has recourse to stratagem. 
Forming in a dry sandy situation a funnel-shaped 
hollow of suitable dimensions, it hides itself 
in ambush at the bottom, projecting only its 
horns, ready to seize its unwary prey. Woe 
to any imprudent insect, the ant especially, that 
in proceeding on its way, dares to approach 
this cavern. On coming near the edge, it in¬ 
evitably slides into the pit; or if it keep at a 
cautious distance, the lurking enemy, as soon as 
he sees it, showers upon it with his head, which 
he uses as a shovel, such a quantity of sand that 
the ant becomes completely stunned; and, tumbling 


to the bottom of the hole, is seized between the 
murderous pincers of the foe, and dragged under 
the sand, to be sucked to death at leisure. Having 
drawn from it all that is nutritive, the ant-lion 
places the dried carcass upon its head and legs, 
and by a sudden jerk, casts it beyond the outer 
circle of this pitfall. 

Emma. 

What a horrid little murderer! But its historv 
is interesting. 

Mr. B. 

Unlike most other insects in this respect, 
the ant-lion is far more interesting in its larva 
than in its mature state. When it arrives at 
maturity, and assumes its elegant form and light 
gauze wings, forgetting all its carnivorous pro¬ 
pensities, it gaily sallies forth, chiefly in the 
evening, to revel on the honeyed juices of fruits 
and flowers ; and its life is henceforth a perpetual 
feast of ambrosial sweets. 

Frederick. 

How long do insects usually remain in the larva 
state ? 

Mr. B. 

The length of time varies considerably; but it 
is, in all cases, nicely adapted to their several 



functions and modes of life. The grubs of the 
flesh-fly have attained their full size and are ready 
to become pupae in six or seven days; the larvae 
of bees in twenty days; while those of the great 
goat moth and cock-chafer live three years 
before their changes. Some live even longer than 
this: the wire worm, which is one of the great 
enemies of the farmer, and is the larva of a species 
of beetle, remains in this state five years; and the 
stag beetle is said to remain in it for even six years. 
With few exceptions it is found that those larvae 
which live on dead animals, in fungi, in dung, 
and in similar substances, are of the shortest 
duration in this state; and those that live under 
the earth on the roots of grass and plants, or in 
wood, the longest: the former becoming pupae in a 
few days or weeks, the latter, requiring several 
months or even years to bring them to maturity. 
Those which live on the leaves of plants, seem to 
have a middle term between the one and the other.* 
But it is almost time to say good night. Should 
nothing prevent, I hope to-morrow evening to 
resume the subject, and to give you a few particulars 
of insects in their pupa state. 


* Kirby. 


THIRD EVENING. 


Mode of obtaining pupae; breeding cage for insects.— 
Moulting of larvae.—Preparations for assuming the 
pupa; silk employed by numerous insects.—Explana¬ 
tion of the term pupa; chrysalis, nymph, cased-nympb, 
semi-nymph, complete pupa.—Length of time that 
insects remain in the pupa state.—Many have a 
fixed hour for disclosing the perfect insect; the silk¬ 
worm, hawk-moth, ephemerae. 


I have endeavoured, Father, said Frederick as 
he entered, to be present at the commencement of 
your lecture this evening ; for if you will allow me, 
I shall much like to share with Emma, in the 
instructions you have engaged to give her. 

Supposing that the contribution of a few 
specimens would again be acceptable, I have been 
hunting in every hollow tree and over every piece 
of wall and paling to find you a few pupae; but I 
have met with only two. 

I have found however a veiy curious caterpillar, 
it seems covered over with little yellow silken 
balls. 





Mr. B. 

This is a caterpillar, Emma, which has been 
destroyed as I described to you, by an ichneumon 
these little yellow balls are cocoons, which 
the grubs that fed on the body of the insect, 
formed for themselves, on eating their way out 
of it. 

To obtain pupse, the best way is to dig for 
them under the spreading branches of trees, 
or under turf: but it is almost too early yet; 
they are found most abundantly at the end of 
July, or the beginning of August; and some 
species in January and February. An6ther good 
plan is to take the insects in their larva state, and 
provide them with such accommodation as their 
habits require. 

Mr. F. who is, you know, a very curious 
observer of insects, has a box, about two feet 
long, twelve inches high, and six broad, divided 
into six compartments. The lower half is con¬ 
structed entirely of wood, and the upper, of 
coarse gauze stretched upon wood or wire frames. 
Each compartment has a separate door, and is 
filled to the height of six inches, with a mixture 





of fine earth, and the dust from the inside of rotten 
trees; it is moreover furnished with a phial in the 
centre for the purpose of containing water, in which 
the food is kept fresh; and on the surface of the 
mould he places a thick layer of moss, which he 
saturates with water, as often as is needful, for the 
purpose of preserving a sufficient degree of moisture. 
Into the different compartments of this cage, he puts 
any caterpillars or grubs he may find, taking care to 
keep each supplied with its appropriate food in a 
fresh state. By this means he has been successful 
in making valuable observations on the habits and 
changes of various insects. 

I would advise you to procure such a box, if 
you wish to become a good practical entomologist. 

Frederick. 

I suppose the rotten wood is for the use of such 
larvae as construct their cocoons of that substance. 

Mr. B. 

Yes : and to make the soil less binding upon 
others. 

I purposely omitted last evening one curious 
particular relating to larvae, because it is intimately 
connected with the change to the pupa state : I 
mean their moulting or change of skin. 





A change in the exterior covering of the body 
takes place, as you know in other animals. Quad¬ 
rupeds renew their hair, and birds their feathers ; 
and even in the human species there is a gradual 
scaling off and renewal of the outer skin ; but in 
insects the whole outer skin is thrown off alto¬ 
gether, like an old garment that is out grown. 

The opinion of Swammerdam was, and it 
appears to be correct, that the larva includes a 
series of cases or envelopes one within the other, 
containing in the centre the germ of the future 
perfect insect, whose developement and final exclu¬ 
sion take place only when these cases have been 
successively thrown off. Each skin is perfectly 
formed from the first: in hairy caterpillars each 
has even the little tufts of hair lying in order 
something like so many minute hair pencils : and 
within these successive coverings, is the envelope 
which covers the insect in the pupa state. 

Different insects vary in the number of these 
skins. The silkworm has four. 

Frederick. 

I remember to have observed when I once kept 
silk worms that the first skin was cast at about 
twelve days from the birth; and the remaining 





three, each at the end of about six days from the 
moulting that preceded it. 

Mr. B. 

I am glad that you made such accurate ob¬ 
servations. 

Most caterpillars have four changes of skin : but 
some have only three, and there are some few 
that have a much greater number; some moult 
five, six, seven, and even ten times. Now only 
think of such a number of skins, not produced 
from time to time, as is the case with serpents, 
from the integument of the bodv, but lving one 
within the other, each separately and perfectly 
formed from the first, and provided with its 
various appendages for ornament or defence. 

Mrs. B. 

And not only is the body provided with this 
succession of coverings, but the head, the eyes, 
the antennas, and even the jaws, have, I believe, 
the same provision for change. I have seen 
the whole covering of the insect cast so entire, 
that it might be mistaken for the larva itself; 
there were the very skull, eyes, antennas, palpi, 
jaws, legs,—all hollow and empty. 





Emma. 

X should think it must be painful to the insect 
to undergo so entire a change of skin. 

Mr. B. 

There is no doubt that it is; and not unfre- 
quently fatal too. A day or two previous to 
each moult, the larva ceases eating altogether; 
it becomes languid and feeble; its beautiful 
colours fade; and it seeks for a safe retreat in 
which to undergo the operation. When it is 
over, the little creature is at first extremely weak; 
and it is not until after some hours, and, in some 
cases, even days, during which it lies without 
motion, that all its parts become consolidated, 
and it recovers sufficient strength to betake 
itself to its accustomed food; but when a few 
meals have invigorated its languid powers, the 
renovated insect makes up for its long abstinence 
by eating with double voracity.* 

Frederick. 

Do all larvae undergo these changes ? 

Mr. B. 

There are some exceptions. The maggot of 
the common flesh-fly never changes its skin; 

* Kirby. 





and the grubs of bees, wasps, and ants, do not 
change it till they assume the pupa. 

When the last time of casting the skin arriyes, 
and the pupa is about to be disclosed, the insect 
quits the plant or tree, on which it had liyed, and 
appears quite unsettled. You may often see one 
in this condition wandering about, and crossing 
the paths and roads, as if in quest of some new 
dwelling. The little creature has done with its 
former food and its former habits, and is prepar¬ 
ing to enter a new stage of existence. 



Some that feed under ground, or in the in¬ 
terior of trees, fruits, and seeds, such as beetles, bees, 
wasps, and some species of flies, merely rest in a 
state of inactivity in the midst of the substances 
which have supplied their nutriment. But a 
far greater number, when about to exchange their 
state of vigour and activity for the long period 
of death-like repose, exhibit the greatest anxiety 
about the choice of a safe retreat. Many, after 
wandering about, as if bewildered, retire to any 
small hole on the surface of the earth, and cover 
themselves with dead leaves or moss; or into 
the chinks of trees, or niches in walls, and other 
buildings. Others provide themselves with a 
grave, or rather a vault under ground, which they 




excavate by pushing away the surrounding earth, 
and the walls of which they render firm by means 
of a viscid fluid, poured from the mouth. The 
larva of the death’s head moth (Sphinx Atropos) 
thus inters itself at a depth of more than a foot 
from the surface. 

Having reached their selected retreat, many 
employ no other precaution. Some, however, 
as the lady-birds and tortoise-beetles, gum them¬ 
selves by the tail to the leaves or twigs, which 
they have chosen as a place of concealment. 
Many of the butterflies suspend themselves by 
silken cords, in a manner that would baffle the 
utmost effort of human ingenuity to contrive; 
and a great number wholly enclose themselves 
in cases or cocoons, composed of silk and various 
other materials. 

Emma. 

Do any insects besides silk-worms spin silken 
coverings ? 

Mr. B. 

Yes: many. For though Nature, when, as 
Milton speaks, she 

--“ Set to work millions of spinning worms, 

That in their green shops weave the smooth-hair’d silk, 

To deck her sons/' 






gave to silk-worms, if I may so express it, the mo¬ 
nopoly of this manufacture, yet she did not confine 
the power of producing silk to them, but con¬ 
ferred it, in inferior degrees, on various other 
insects. Most of the bee and ant tribes, some of 
the weevils and beetles, the ant-lions and others, 
fabricate for themselves silken cocoons. Even 
when other materials, such as leaves, decayed 
wood, sand, &c. are employed, silk is usually 
the cement that unites them together. 

Frederick. 

I remember you once showed me the cocoon 
of an ant-lion; it was round, and externally 
composed of grains of sand, cemented with silk; 
the interior was lined with silk of a satiny white, 
just fit to be the abode of the elegant insect that 
emerged from it. 

Mrs. B. 

I have a drawing of the cocoon of a species 
of moth, one of th e jihalejice, which I think remark¬ 
ably elegant. It is composed of leaves and flowers 
tied together with silk, and is suspended to a twig 
by layers of silken threads.* 




Mr. B. 

The phalenae are our little geometrical acquaint¬ 
ance. Many of them are industrious spinners, 
and very elegant in their habits. 

The most extensive silk manufacturers, however, 
are the various species of Bombyx . The Bom - 
byx proper is the common silk-worm, (Bombyx 
Mori;) but there are several nearly allied genera 
in our own country, whose strong white webs 
you must have observed upon the hedges and 
fruit trees, covering hundreds of caterpillars. Of 
these the webs of the Bombyx Chrysorrhcea are 
the most common. 

Emma. 

O ! I have seen them; but I always thought 
they were spiders' webs, which caterpillars had 
crept into. 

Mr. B. 

I do not suppose you ever thought much about 
the matter; or you would have thought how very 
different they are from spiders’ webs in form and 
substance too. 

Frederick. 

The lackey caterpillar, which I brought you 
yesterday, I took from among a large party that 




were regaling themselves under such silken tent 
upon the leaves of an apple-tree. 

Mr. B. 

The webs of the lackey caterpillars ( Bortibyx 
Neusti'ia) are frequently to be found on the fruit 
trees, and hedges too, for nothing comes amiss 
to them. 

The caterpillars inhabiting pine-trees, ( Bombyx 
Ablet is,) which your Mamma was describing 
yesterday as marching in such order, and carpet¬ 
ing their paths so curiously, dwell also together 
under an ample web or tent, formed of a strong 
kind of white silk. 

Wherever indeed you see a thick web on the trees, 



the grass, or the hedges, you may be pretty sure 
to find that there is or has been under it a colony 
of caterpillars. Some remain imder the web only 
for a time, and separate before the period of 
metamorphosis arrives, each to live in solitude; 
others remain in society through all their changes, 
and do not leave each other till they have 
attained maturitv. 



Emma. 

Are their productions of any use to us ? 




Mr. B. 

W e are not to estimate their use merely by their 
value to us. God cares for the wants of the insect, 
my dear Emma, as well as for those of the man. 

That we have not vet found a use for these webs 



is no proof that they might not be made of 
of service to us. I am inclined to think that some 
of these productions might, if cultivated, be em¬ 
ployed to advantage. The Bombyx Abietis forms 
a silken cocoon which could, it is believed, be 
manufactured, if proper pains were taken in pre¬ 
paring it. There is a species of these insects 
in Madagascar, whose silk is employed by the 
inhabitants. 

Well, after this digression on silk, let us return 
to the principal object for which it is produced by 
the insect,—the preparing of a secure retreat in 
which to pass through its greatest change. 

The insect forms the cocoon, you understand, 
while still in the larva state. Having done this, 
or made such other provision for security as in¬ 
stinct has dictated, after a time, the skin once 
more separates, and discloses an oblong body, 
which Linne called a pupa , from its resemblance 
in miniature to a child trussed up like a mummy, 




in swaddling bands, as young infants are in 
many parts of the continent :—pupa is the latin 
word for baby. In this state most insects 
require no food, and exhibit no other sign of life 
even when touched, than that of a slight move¬ 
ment of the abdomen. If opened, they seem 
filled with a watery fluid, in which no distinct 
organs can be traced. 

The pupae of different orders and species vary 
considerably; and different names, as I have 
already told you, have been applied to them. 
u Those of the beetle and bee tribes are covered 
with a membranous skin, inclosing in separate 
and distinct sheaths the antennae, legs, and wings, 
which are consequently not closely applied to the 
body, but have their form for the most part clearly 
distinguishable : these are called nymphs. 

Butterflies, moths, and some of the two-winged 
insects, are also inclosed in a similar membran¬ 
ous envelope ; but their legs, antennae, and wings, 
are so closely folded over the breast and sides, that 
they bear a strong resemblance to the mummies 
of ancient Egypt; and the whole body is inclosed 
in a case or covering of a horny consistence, which 
admits a much less distinct view of the organs be¬ 
neath it. To these the name of chrysalis is given. 




Frederick. 

The two pupae that I have found are of that 
description. 

Mr. B. 

Let us see them. This, which is of a greenish 
yellow, marked with spots of black, is the chrysalis 
of a cabbage butterfly; and this, which I should 
think you found not far from a bed of nettles, is 
that of a nettle or tortoise-shell butterfly. Only 
see, Emma, it shines as though gilded with bur¬ 
nished gold. 

The angular pupae of butterflies, of w T hieh these 
are examples, are among the most beautiful of 
pupae. They are often not only gaily decorated, 
but tinged of a golden colour, which obtained for 
them among the Romans the name of aurelice ; 
and among the Greeks, that of chrysalis . Linn6 
called them obtected pupae. 

The pupae of insects in general, however, do 
not present much that is beautiful in colour. 
The nymphs of bees, &c., which I have just 
described, are usually white, or whitish; and 
the cased-nymphs, as they are termed, of flies 
and some other two-winged genera, are generally 
of a reddish brown. The pupae of most moths 




are brown, of various shades, sometimes varying 
to black. 

Frederick. 

You said just now, Father, that most insects in 
the pupa state require no food, I thought there 
were none that did. 

Mr. B. 

In the metamorphoses of insects, as in other 
things, nature has observed no invariable rule. 
To by far the greater number the remark strictly 
applies, that in the pupa state they take no food; 
still it was necessary to qualify the assertion, 
because the pupae of a very considerable number 
including all the orthoptera, that is to say, the 
w r ell-known tribes of earwigs, grasshoppers, crick¬ 
ets, and locusts, with cockroaches, lanthorn-flies, 
froghoppers, bugs, plant-lice, dragon-flies, white 
ants, &c., are equally capable of moving and 
eating with the larvae, which they resemble, 
except in having the rudiments of wings bound 
down under a skin that keeps them confined. 
These are called semi-nymphs, or semi-complete 
pupce . 

Frederick. 

Then all insects do not lie for a time in a state 





of death-like repose. I think the terms larvae and 
pupae ought to be applied only to those that 
undergo these distinct changes, and not to such as 
preserve nearly the same form throughout their 
existence. 

Mr. B. 

It would perhaps be more strictly correct so to 
confine them: but as all insects vary more or less 
in their progress from the egg to the perfect state, 
these terms are found generally convenient. 

Emma. 

Spiders do not undergo any change do they ? 

Mr. B. 

Yes, they do \ and so do millepedes, centipedes, 
mites, scorpions, harvestmen, and various other 
wingless insects that to a casual observer appear 
always the same. Some differ in the number and 
length of their legs; some, in the number of the 
segments of the body; and some, in other particulars, 
which when you become a practised entomologist, 
you will understand : they all too in their progress 
to maturity cast their skins. Linn6 called such 
insects complete pupce } because they so nearly 
resemble the perfect insect. 

Now, Emma, can you enumerate the different 
kinds of pupae ? 





Emma. 

Yes, I think I can. The larva of the butterfly 
and moth becomes a chrysalis; that of the beetle 
and the bee, a nymph; that of the fly, a cased 
nymph; that of the grasshopper and dragon-fly 
a semi-nymph; and that of the spider a complete 
pupa . 

Frederick. 

Do insects remain in the pupa state long ? 

Mr.B. 

They vary very much in this respect. Gener¬ 
ally speaking, the pupae of large insects continue 
pupae a longer time than those of smaller size. 
Those of beetles and butterflies, for example, 
longer than those of bees and flies. Some species 
remain in this state only two or three days; others, 
as many weeks or months, or even years. The 
period depends on various circumstances, such as 
the season of the year, and the temperature of the 
climate. The same insects will remain pupae as 
long again in our country as they will in India. 
You probably observed that your silk-worms were 
about a month in escaping from their prisons ; in 
their natural climate they would have become 
moths in fifteen davs. 




Emma. 

One thing puzzles me, Papa, and that is, how 
these insects that bury themselves deep in the earth 
or in the heart of trees, manage to find their way 
out of their tombs. 

Mr. B. 

Coleopterous insects, that is, insects of the beetle 
kind, thus circumstanced, wait until their organs 
have acquired sufficient strength and their elytra or 
horny coverings are sufficiently hardened to protect 
their filmy wings from damage in forcing their 
way out. Some are known to be at least a month 
in reaching the surface after quitting the puparium. 
It is evident, however, that no delay would enable 
those without elytrse, such as moths and flies, to 
make their way out without considerable injury. 
Many therefore while still within the hard case of 
the pupa take the precaution, a few days previous 
to leaving it, to wriggle themselves up to the 
surface, or when they reside in the interior of trees, 
to the entrance of their hole. The pupa of the 
great goat moth may often be seen projecting from 
openings in willow trees, and that of the common 
crane fly from the surface of the earth in which 
it has been buried several inches deep. 





Mrs. B. 

It is a singular fact, that the pupae of silk¬ 
worms appear to have a fixed hour of the day for 
disclosing the perfect insect; Frederick, I remem¬ 
ber, constantly found that his broke forth at sun¬ 
rise. 

Mr. B. 

Many besides the silk-worm observe a fixed 
period of the day. The hawk moth of the evening 
primrose comes forth also at sunrise; the hawk 
moth of the lime tree as certainly at noon. But 
the most remarkable insects for punctuality in this 
respect are the ephemerae, so interestingly described 
by Reaumur. “ Myriads of these insects issue in 
clouds from the banks of the Seine somewhere be¬ 
tween the tenth and eighteenth of August. They 
are all disclosed in two or three days, and in¬ 
variably between the hours of eight and ten in the 
evening. The seasons of the different crops are 
not better known by agriculturists, than the time 
when the ephemerae are about to shew themselves 
on the banks of the rivers which they inhabit, is 
by fishermen. Whatever during the day may 
have been the temperature of the atmosphere, the 
hour at which they emerge from the nymph is the 





same with the greater number of them: and 
another hour appears marked beyond which it is 
no longer allowed them to rise to life and gaiety. 

Emma. 

I have often heard of the ephemerae ; what sort 
of insects are they ? 

Mr. B. 

They are elegant fragile little creatures with 
light transparent wings, belonging to the same 
order as the dragon-fly and the ant lion. 

In the larva and nymph state they are aquatic, 
occupying holes in the banks of streams and rivers, 
in which during an existence of two or three 
years they perform the task assigned them by 
their Maker. That task accomplished, they enter 
at the appointed hour, on all the joyousness of 
conscious life. But brief is its duration. At sun¬ 
set they begin to live; before sun-rise the short 
course of most of them is over. 

Mrs. B. 

Short as their life is, it is gaily passed. Their 
choral dances, viewed by the last rays of the 
setting sun, have been described as scarcely 
resembling any thing material. 




Mb. B. 

Allowance must be made for the tints in which 
a poet dips his pencil, when he describes them as 

“Transparent forms, too fine for mortal sight, 

Their fluid bodies half dissolved in light, 

With airy vestments of etherial hue, 

And glittering textures of the filmy dew, 

On whom each beam new transient colour flings, 
Colours that change whene’er they wave their wings/’ 

Still all who have observed them agree that the 
rapid motion of myriads of them performing their 
gyrations round any luminous object cannot be 
witnessed, by the dullest spectator, without as¬ 
tonishment. They completely fill the air like 
thickly falling flakes of snow, and when seen in 
the beams of the declining sun, appear like brilliant 
gems showered down from heaven. 

The fishermen call them manna . When their 
brief life terminates, a very large proportion of 
them fall into the river, affording the fish a grand 
festival, and the fishermen a good harvest. 

But we are a little anticipating our next 
evening’s entertainment; when the structure and 
habits of insects in the imago or perfect state, will 
I hope pleasantly engage our attention. 


FOURTH EVENING. 


Appearance of insects on first quitting the puparium.— 
Principles of the classification of insects.—-Cuvier’s 
system.—-First four orders apterous, or without wings; 
Myriapods, Thysanoura, Parasita, and Suctoria.— 
Eight orders with wings; Coleoptera, Orthoptera, 
Hemiptera, Neuroptera, Lepidoptera, Rhipiptera, and 
Diptera.—Distinctions of sex: females usually the 
larger; some wingless.—Sexes sometimes differ in 
colour; males more ornamented; some have larger 
eyes and antennse; females alone sting; are the more 
industrious and skilful.—Age of insects. 

I hope, Papa, you are at leisure this evening, 
said Emma; for the sight of such numbers of 
insects fluttering and sporting in every direction 
during this beautiful weather, makes me long 
still more to become acquainted with them. 

I have determined, my love, replied Mr. B., 
to defer other engagements as far as possible 
while you are at home, and to make leisure for 
the gratification of my own inclinations, as well 
as of your wishes. 

We will meet in the study and open the cabinet. 




We left our little acquaintance at the point 
when they are first disclosed from the puparium, 
or pupa case. At this moment the insect is soft, 
weak, and languid; its parts are covered with 
moisture, and have so little the appearance 
which they are about to assume, that the unprac¬ 
tised observer can scarcely believe such a change 
possible as that which he is soon to witness. I 
have often, when a boy, watched beetles and 
butterflies emerging to life; and when I have 
seen the elytrse of beetles, for instance, instead of 
being, as I expected, stiff and brilliant, and in 
their proper place upon the back, feebly folded 
over the breast, and of a soft leathery substance, 
and a whitish colour, which exhibited no traces 
of the several tints that were to adorn them, I have 
felt, for the moment, bitter vexation at the apparent 
failure of my hopes. 

Frederick. 

You remind me, Father, of a disappointment 
I once had, when a little boy. I had taken 
great care of a chrysalis all the winter, and 
expected in the spring to see a beautiful butterfly 
make its appearance, with large and gaily-painted 
wings; but to my great mortification, the wings, 





when it came out, for I watched it coming out 
of the pupa, were scarcely bigger than my finger 
nail, and were of such a dull muddy colour, and 
fell so helplessly over the breast, that I thought 
it could never come to anything, so I threw 
it away. 

Mr. B. 

If you had had but a little patience, these 
symptoms of debility and imperfection would 
soon have vanished, and your hopes would have 
been realized by the gradual expansion of the 
wings, and the exhibition of their various lines 
and markings. An hour or two generally suffices 
to give to the insect its proper texture, form, and 
colour. 

Before we proceed to consider insects in their 
imago state, it will be desirable that you should 
have such a general idea of their classification, 
as an inspection of specimens will furnish. 

Emma. 

What does imago mean, Papa ? 

Mr. B. 

It is a term applied to the perfect insect by 
Linne, because having laid aside its mask, and 
thrown off its swaddling bands, it is become a true 
representative or image of its species. 





The classification of insects, like other artificial 
classifications, has been founded by different 
naturalists on various distinctive peculiarities. 

Some have arranged them according to the loca¬ 
lity in which they are found; whether on land or in 
water, on plants or on animals. Others, according 
to the character of their metamorphoses ; and 
others, according to the structure of the mouth; but 
the system now generally adopted is that of Linne, 
who founds it on the variety observable in the 
number and texture of the wings. By the termina¬ 
tion ptera , you will perceive that Cuvier, whose 
plan I have followed, adopted the principle of his 
arrangement.* 

Emma. 

Will you tell me Papa, the exact meaning of 
the word insect ? 

Mr. B. 

It is derived from the Latin insectus , which 
means indented or notched. If you look at a bee 
or a fly, you will at once perceive that its body is 
insected or partially divided into three parts, the 
head, the trunk, and the abdomen. In Greek, 
insects are called entoma for the same reason; and 
hence the study of insects is called entomology . 




Cuvier divides insects into twelve orders, of 
which the first four are apterous or wingless. 

Emma. 

They consist of spiders and such things, I 
suppose. 

Mr. B. 

Xo : on account of various peculiarities in the 
structure of spiders, he places them in a class by 
themselves called arachnidce. 

His first order of windless insects are the 
Myriapods , vulgarly named Millipedes; to this 
belong the various kinds of Scolopendra, Wood- 
lice, &c. 

His second order he names Thysanoura . You 
have seen insects of this order, I dare say; one 
genus of them, the podura or spring-tails, may be 
compared to little silvery fishes ; they run very 
fast, and are to be found in moist places, under 
planks and stones. The sugar louse also belongs 
to it. 

His third order, called Par as it a, is formed of 
those insects that exist on the bodies of other 
animals. As thev are too disgusting to be dwelt 
upon, I shall only remark respecting them, that 
there is no cpiadruped which has not its particular 
louse; and that some nourish several. 





His fourth order of wingless insects, which 
he terms Suctoria , is composed of the different 
species of fleas ; but as they are nearly as unin¬ 
viting as the Parasita , I shall pass them over also 
in silence. 

My collection begins, you perceive, with his 
fifth order, the Coleoptera ,* which comprehends 
the various species of beetles. 

Emma. 

What a great number you have! Papa. 

Mr. B. 

I have some of all the four sections, and of each 
of the twenty families into which Cuvier divides 
the beetle tribes ; but when I tell vou that these 
families are again divided into sixty-eight genera, 
and more than six-hundred sub-genera, you will 
readily believe that I have not specimens of 
one-tenth of the varieties they include. 

The Coleoptera far exceed in number of species 
eveiy other order of insects; for this, and for 
other reasons, among which I might name the 
completeness of the metamorphosis they all under¬ 
go, from a dull heavy worm to a brilliant beetle, 
they have always attracted the particular attention 




of naturalists. Aristotle gave them the name 
Coleoptera because their wings are so strongly 
protected by a sheath; they are, in fact, clothed 
in a complete suit of natural armour. 

This drawer contains the sixth order of Cuvier, 
which are called Orthoptera , from their wings 
being folded in a straight or longitudinal direction. 



Emma. 

You have some very curious looking creatures 
among them. Some of them might yie with 
kangaroos, in the length of their hind-legs;— 
what is this which has fore-legs almost like 
hands ?* 

Mr. B. 

A mole cricket. A creature as mischievous 
in its habits, as it is curious in its appearance. 

A characteristic of this order more marked 
and distinguishing than the form of the wings, 
is that the metamorphosis of insects belonging 
to it is only partial. 

Emma. 

I remember you told me that crickets, locusts, 
grasshoppers, earwigs, and other insects of that 
sort, are equally able to walk and feed in all 
their states. 



Mr. B. 

Yes: the pupa differs from the larva only in 
having the rudiments of wings, which the larva 
has not; and the perfect insect differs from the 
pupa, only in having those wings fully matured. 

The Orthopte?'a , you see, are divided into two 
tribes;—the helpers, such as crickets and grass¬ 
hoppers ; and the runners, such as earwigs. 

This drawer contains specimens of Cuvier’s 
seventh order, the Semiptera,* or those with 
half-cased wings; that is to say, those in which 
only half of the outer wing is homy. They 
terminate the wing-cased insects. In the Semi - 
ptera, however, as in the preceding order, the 
wings are not the most remarkable feature; 
some of them indeed, as the bed-bug, have none 
at all; they are more distinguished from the two 
previous orders, by not having jaws, but mouths 
formed wholly for suction. Among them are 
some disagreeable, and some extremely elegant 
insects. Like the Ortlioptera, the larva and 
pupa very nearly resemble the mature insect 
in form. 




Frederick. 

There are several species of bugs among them, 

I perceive. 

Mr. B. 

Yes: the first division consists almost entirely 

of bugs. In the second, I have several valuable 

specimens of a tribe that have long been famous 

for their musical powers. I mean the Cicadarice 

including the Fulgora , Cicada , Tettix , and 

Tettigonia genera. Some of them, particularly 

the lanthorn-flies, are also remarkably luminous; 

so that this tribe of insects may be said to 

“ Beautify and cheer the night 

With sprightly song and brilliant light/ 7 

The various species of plant-lice also belong to 
this order. 

The eighth order is called Neuroptera* 

Emma. 

How light and pretty their gauze wings are! 

Mr. B. 

We have already noticed the larvae of one or 
two insects belonging to them;—the murderous 
ant-lion, the dragon-fly with his mask, and the 
fragile ephemerae. These are, perhaps, the most 




interesting genera belonging to this order, if we 
except the termites or white ants, of whose remark¬ 
able architectural skill, and equally remarkable 
destructive power, I shall have something to tell 
you another evening. What does Neuroptera 
mean, Frederick? 

Frederick. 

I suppose it means nerve-winged. 

Mr. B. 

You are right. The wings consist of a verv 
 

fine reticulated substance. Many insects of this 
order are carnivorous. Some, as the ant-lion, 
undergo a complete metamorphosis; while in 
others, as the dragon fly, it is incomplete. 

Frederick. 

This drawer contains my favourites, the Syme - 
noptera .* 

Mr. B. 

I quite agree with you in your preference. It 
is indisputably the order most deserving attention. 
Two distinguished naturalists, Mr. Huber and his 
son, spent their lives in observing the manners 
and habits of two of the genera belonging to it : 
the father devoting himself to the study of bees; 
the son, to that of ants. 




The characteristics of the Hyynenoptera are 
four membranous and naked wings, of which the 
upper pair are always the larger; and an auger 
or a sting at the end of the abdomen of the 
female. They all undergo a complete metamor¬ 
phosis, and the nursing and care which some of 
them bestow on the larvae and pupae, is an interest¬ 
ing part of their economy. 

Emma. 

Well, Frederick, you may have the stinging 
bees and wasps to yourself as you like them so 
much; for my paid, I greatly prefer the delicate 
beautiful creatures in this drawer. 

Mr. B. 

The Lep'idoptera * are your favourites, are they ? 
I am afraid, Emma, you are too much influenced 
by appearances. Do you not think intelligence 
and industry preferable to beauty ? 

Emma. 

But, Papa, are not butterflies and moths intelli¬ 
gent and industrious ? Almost all you have vet 
told me of the skill of insects, has been connected 
with them—with their caterpillars at least. 

Mr. B. 

A very good defence, Emma. I must grant 



that in their larva state they are the most interest¬ 
ing order of insects. Popular opinion too seems 
to be in their favour; for no other order, with the 
exception of beetles, has been so generally studied. 
Still, I cannot allow butterflies to be at all equal 
in intelligence to bees and ants. You will be of 
my opinion when you know more of the economy 
of these wonderful little creatures. 

Emma. 

I do not exactly know the distinction between 
butterflies and moths. 

Mr. B. 

There are two or three remarkable points of 
difference. Butterflies when stationarv, hold their 
wings erect, so that you can see only the under 
sides of them ; moths drop theirs in a manner that 
displays their beauty. The antennae of the butter¬ 
fly are very slender, and terminate in a kind of 
knob; those of moths are often elaborately adorned. 

Butterflies fly by day; moths chiefly by twi¬ 
light, and many only by night. 

The. order is called Lepidoptera from the scaly 
or feathery covering of the wings. 

Frederick. 

You have no specimens of Cuvier’s eleventh 
order, the Rhipiptera . 




Mr B. 

The insects belonging to it are few, minute, and 
difficult to obtain. In the larva state they are 
parasitic, living between the segmentary scales of 
wasps and some other insects. 

Emma. 

None of the insects in this drawer, which appear 
to be different kinds of flies, have more than two 
wings, I think. 

Mr. B. 

They are distinguished by that circumstance; 
The twelfth order is called Diptera ,* or two 
winged. 

The Diptera have, however, something instead 
of a second pair of wings. Look at this fly 
which I have put into the microscope; do you 
not see something like a small wire with a ball at 
the end projecting from each side of the trunk 
behind the wings? These little projections are 
called poisers , because some have supposed that 
they enable the fly to balance its body and obviate 
all unsteadiness in flight; others, however, are of 
opinion that they assist respiration; and others, 
with perhaps more probability, that they are only 
the rudiments of wings. 




You have now, I hope, a tolerably correct idea 
of the twelve orders of insects according to Cuvier’s 
classification; the first four, you will bear in mind, 
are apterous , or without wings: and are called 
Myriapoda , Thysanoura , Parasita , and Suctoria . 
Of the eight following orders, all of which have 
wings, three, the Coleoptera , Orthoptera , and 
Hemiptera y have wing-cases; two, the Neuroptera 
and Hymenoptera , have four naked wings; one, 
the Lepidoptera , has four scaly wings; and of the 
two last, the Rliipiptera has two large crossed 
wings, and the Diptera two naked wings, which, 
though comparatively small, are formed for rapid 
flight, 

Emma. 

I see, Papa, that in several instances, you have 
two specimens of apparently the same insect, only 
that the one is smaller than the other; the small 
ones, I suppose, are not full grown. 

Mr. B. 

Another random guess, my young ladv-philoso- 
pher. Insects do not grow after they leave 
the pupa. 

Emma. 

Well now, Papa, you surprise me very much. 
I always thought the small flies, for instance, 





which we sometimes see on the window, were 
young ones, that had not done growing. 

Mr. B. 

Then, my dear girl, you have always been 
under a great mistake. They are an entirely 
different species. With regard to the insects 
in the cabinet, where one is rather smaller than 
the other, they are male and female specimens 
of the same insect. I shall perhaps surprise you 
again when I tell you, that the larger insect is, 
with few exceptions, th e female» 

Emma. 

Indeed! 

Mr. B. 

The disproportion is not, in general, very great; 
yet sufficiently observable for a practised eye to 
determine, even in the larva and pupa states, 
which will become females. There are a few 
instances, however, in which the female is immense¬ 
ly larger than the male. Reaumur tells us of one 
species of beetle, of which the male is so small in 
comparison with his mate, that a bull not larger 
than a hare contrasted with a large cow, would 
aptly represent their proportions. The little 
beetle, he says, has wings and elytrse, while the 





giant female is without either. In some species 
of white ants, (termites) the females are even 
some thousands of times larger than the males. 

The mention of Reaumur’s beetles reminds me 
that the females of some other species are also 
without wings; the common glow-worm, for 
example, (Lampyris noctiluca;) the female 
cock-roach (Blatta;) and the neuters or workers, 
among the ants. 

The sexes sometimes differ also in colour, and 
that, in some instances, so greatly, that they have 
been mistaken for different species. This is very 
often the case in the Hymenoptera; you may 
frequently find males and females among the 
ichneumons and saw-flies that are wholly dis¬ 
similar in colour; and I have here two species 
of wild bees, in the one, (Anthophora retusa,) 
the male is wholly black, and the female wholly 
grey; and in the other, (Osmia coerulescens,) 
the male has, you see, a bronzed, and the female, 
a violet abdomen. 

There are several instances of the same difference 
among the Lepidoptera . In the common brimstone 
butterfly, (Gonepteryx rhamni,) which is one 
of our earliest visitants in spring, the wings of the 





male are yellow, those of the female greenish 
white; and in the common orange-tip butterfly 
(Pontiu cardamines,) one sex has not the orange 
tip to the upper wings. Inattention to this fact 
led even Linn6 into mistakes; his Trojans and 
Greeks are now ascertained to be, in many instances 
at least, only different sexes of the same species. 

Frederick. 

I have often noticed common dragon-flies ( Li - 
bellula depressa) hawking over a pool of water 
in company, in some of which the abdomen was 
of a slate colour, while in others, it was yellow 
with darker side spots. 

Mr. B. 

Those of a slate colour were the males. The 
LibellulidcB are remarkable for the differences of 
colour in the sexes. In one species, (Calepteryx 
virgo ,) the female is green, and her mate, of a 
lovely silky blue. 

Generally speaking, male insects, though in¬ 
ferior to the females in size, and in another 
important particular, which I have yet to mention, 
have a decided advantage with regard to form; 
they have one segment more in the body than 
the female, and some are furnished with various 


defensive appendages : some have one, two, or 
even three threatening horns, either on the head 
or trunk; others have enormous upper jaws. 
In some, the hive-bee for example, the eyes of 
the male are much larger than those of the female : 
while in nearly all, those wonderful organs, whose 
use is little known to us, the antennae, are both 
more complete and more elegant. Look, for 
instance, at these capricorn beetles; the antennas 
of the males are twice the length of those of the 
females. 

Emma. 

Now you mention it, Papa, I remember that 
I have often observed a difference in the antennas 
of gnats. In some, they were thickly fringed with 
hair on each side, like little plumes; and in others, 
quite naked and plain. They are not then two 
different kinds of gnats ? 

Mr. B. 

No : they are the male and female of the same 
species. You never need to be afraid of those 
with the handsomely plumed antennas ; they are 
gentle creatures, content with sipping the nectar 
of flowers. It is the females alone, both among 
gnats (Culices) and horseflies (Tabanidce) whose 
blood-thirsty disposition there is reason to dread. 


Frederick. 

And it is the females only, I think you just 
now said, among the Hymenoptera that wear a 
sting. 

Mr. B. 

Yes: to speak the truth, female insects are 
often of a very unamiable disposition. 

Emma. 

After all this, Papa, it is but fair that you 
should tell us the “ important particular” in 
which as you just now said, female insects are 
superior to the males. 

Mr. B. 

Well then, Emma, it must be confessed that the 
females are very superior in industry. They are 
the workers; and while pleasure is the whole 
pursuit of the other sex, it is on them that the 
care of providing for future generations devolves. 
Look at a hive of bees* While the queen and 
the honey-makers, which are now considered to 
be also females, are skilful and diligent, wise, 
active, prudent, laborious and courageous, the 
males take no part whatever in their cares ; but 
indolently suffer themselves to be maintained at 
the expense of the community, till their idleness 




and cowardice cause them to be expelled from 
the hive. 

Emma. 

Then I do think, Papa, that on the whole, 
though the males may be the prettier and the 
more gentle, the females are by far the most 
deserving of notice. 

Mr. B. 

I think so too, Emma. 

Frederick. 

What is the average term of the life of insects ? 

Mr. B. 

It would perhaps be difficult to say. In some, 
the life is longest in the first states; in others, 
in the last. It may be taken, I think, as a 
pretty general rule, that those, whose existence 
as larvae is the most extended, live for the shortest 
period when they attain maturity; and the reverse. 
Most of the ephemerae, you know, live as larvae 
and pupae two or three years; as perfect insects, only 
an hour or two. The cock-chafer, (Melolontha 
vulgaris ,) which in its first state lives four years, 
as a beetle, lives only eight or ten days; while the 
flesh-fly, whose larva has attained to maturity in 
three or four days, will exist for several weeks. 





A small number of the larger species of insects, 
particularly of the Coleoptera and Orthoptera , 
have been known to live six, nine, twelve, or even 
fifteen months; and a very few, two or three 
years, or even more. Rosel informs us, that he 
kept a rose-beetle (Cetonia aurata) alive for 
three years, by feeding it with fruit and moist 
white bread; and Esper kept one of our most 
common water-beetles (Dytiscus marginalis ) for 
three years and a half, by placing it in a large 
vessel of water, and feeding it with meat. The 
average life of insects, generally speaking, however, 
is but a few weeks; and of many species, but a 
few days or hours. 

And yet, though the very type of frailty, though 
born only to 

.— --Sport in the sunbeam, 

And be seen no more, 

insects are more complex in their formation, that 
is to say, their muscles are far more numerous, 
their nervous system is far more ramified, and 
they are furnished not only with more com- 
plicated, but with a greater variety of organs, 
than the elephant, the rhinoceros, or the hippopo¬ 
tamus ; and all compressed into so minute a bulk. 



as scarcely to counterpoise a ten-millionth part 
of either of those mighty xnonarchs of the forest 
and the flood.* 

To-morrow evening we will examine more 
minutely their astonishing structure, so far at 
least as their external organs are visible to us. 
The microscope will disclose to our view a world 
of wonders. 


* Kirby. 


FIFTH EVENING. 


General form of insects.—Head.—Eyes • simple, con¬ 
glomerate, compound.—Stemmata.—-Hearing.—Anten¬ 
nae the probable organs of hearing; of conversation; of 
detecting changes in the atmosphere.—Touch probably 
resides in the palpi and tarsi.—Smell: organs of smell 
and taste probably in the head.—Insects divided into 
Haustellata , or those that suck, and Mandibulata , or 
those that chew.—Various organs of sucking insects; 
the promuscis of bugs, proboscis of flies and gnats, antlia 
of butterflies.—Jaws of insects differ in construction.— 
Lapping insects.—Insects have no voice. 


We are this evening, said Mr. B., as he took 
his seat at the cabinet, to examine the structure 
of insects, as it is presented to us in their ex¬ 
ternal forms. And first, let us notice in what 
particulars all insects are alike. Some are so 
obvious that you cannot fail to observe them. 

Frederick. 

The bodies of all appear to be divided into 
three partsthe head, the trunk, and the ab¬ 
domen ; and they all, I mean all winged insects, 
have six legs and two antennae. 




Mr. B. 

And all, with the exception of the last two 
orders, have four wings; so that we might define 
an insect as a little creature with six legs, four 
wings, two antennae, and a body divided into 
three distinct parts. 

But though bearing this general resemblance, 
how dissimilar are the different orders! Contrast 
a beetle or a bee with a butterfly, and either of 
these with a grasshopper or a dragon-fly; how 
totally unlike! And yet, take each part sepa¬ 
rately, and you will find, amidst all this variety, 
a strict adherence to one general plan. This you 
will perceive more distinctly by looking at them 
through a microscope. 

We will first examine the part which in all 
animals is the most interesting,—I mean the head. 
I am not going to point out their lips, and temples, 
and cheeks, and noses; you laugh, Emma, but, I 
assure you, grave entomologists do point them 
out; nor shall I pretend to decide which have 
incisor , which laniar , and which molar teeth, or 
whether, like ourselves, any are furnished with 
them all.—This is beyond my ability, as well 
as my purpose. 





The head is usually larger in the perfect insect 
than in the larva; and is supposed to be in insects, 
as in most other animals, the principal seat of the 
senses. Internally, it contains the brain; and 
externally, the mouth, eyes, and antennae. Its 
form is generally that of a triangle, with the angles 
rounded, the point forming the mouth; and its 
substance is harder than the rest of the crust. 

The most remarkable and distinguishing features 
of the head are the eyes and the antennae. Some 
apterous insects, as fleas, lice, spiders, scorpions, 
&c., have from two to sixteen simple eyes, differing 
in shape, colour, size, and situation, and placed 
singly upon the head; others have what are called 
conglomerate eyes, that is to say, simple eyes 
collected together: in the common millepede, 
(lulus terrestris,) there are twenty-eight eyes thus 
placed together in seven rows, and forming a tri¬ 
angle. But the most common kind of eye, at least 
in winged insects, is the compound eye, of which, 
generally speaking, they have two. These eyes 
are composed of a set of transparent crustaceous 
lenses, so hard, as to require no covering to protect 
them, and have thus, like multiplying glasses, 
innumerable surfaces, on every one of which the 


 


object is distinctly formed; so that if a candle be 
held opposite to them, it appears multiplied almost 
to infinity. 

Emma. 

Then they see every single object multiplied to 
an immense number. 

Mr. B. 

0 no : I do not suppose that. You have two 
eyes, but you do not see things double; do you ? 
By the compound structure of their eyes their 
power of vision is strengthened and their field of 
viewed enlarged; without it indeed, as their eyes 
are immoveable, they could have seen but little; 
but some one or other of these minute hemispheres 
being always directed towards objects from what¬ 
ever quarter they present themselves, nothing can 
pass unobserved. These lenses, which amount to 
a greater or less number in the eyes of different 
insects, give to them the appearance of net-work. 
Look at the eye of this fly* in the microscope; it 
appears traversed, you observe, by numberless 
parallel lines, with others, equally numerous, 
intersecting them at right angles, so as apparently 
to form myriads of little partitions each with a 
lens set in it. 




I have here a drawing of a small part of a butter¬ 
fly’s eye, magnified two hundred thousand times,* 
which will give you some idea of the manner in 
which these lenses are set. The sockets, you see, 
are hexagonal, and are fringed with eye lashes; 
the lenses are circular and transparent, convex on 
the outer surface and concave within, but thicker 
in the middle than at the edge. Of these lenses, 
thus curiously formed, and exactly set, no less 
than seventeen thousand three hundred and twenty- 
five have been counted in one eye of a butterfly. 

Frederick. 

I had no idea that they were so immensely 
numerous. 

Mr. B. 

In one genus of beetles, (Dynastes,) they are 
said to be even much more numerous than this: but 
the number varies in different insects. In the eye 
of another species of beetle Mr. Leeuwenhoek 
counted three thousand one hundred and eighty 
one; in that of the common house-fly, eight 
thousand; and in that of a dragon-fly, twelve 
thousand five hundred and forty four. 

Emma. 

I could never have thought that the eye even 

 

of a little insect contained such inconceivable 
wonders. 

Mr B. 

The wisdom of God is displayed, my dear 
Emma, in the minuteness of his works as much 
as in the vastness of them : in the myriads of 
perfect lenses composing the eyes of each of the 
millions of insects that sport in the cheering 
warmth of the summer’s sun, as much as in the 
structure of those suns and worlds with which the 
wide expanse of the universe is filled. 

Frederick. 

You just now mentioned the number of lenses in 
the eye of a dragon-fly;—I think I have read of 
some curious experiments which Mr. Leeuwenhoek 
once made with the eye of one of these insects. 
With the aid of a microscope used as a telescope 
he viewed the steeple of a church through it; he 
could plainly see the spire, though not apparently 
larger than the point of a fine needle: he also 
looked at a house, and could discern the front, 
distinguish the doors and windows, and perceive 
whether they were shut or open. 

Mr. B. 


So he fancied. 





Besides these compound eyes, which from their 
high magnifying powers, are probably intended 
chiefly for surveying more distant objects, a large 
portion of insects are provided with a kind of 
auxiliary eyes, called by Linn6 stemmata; they 
are simple, usually three in number, and placed 
between the other eyes, for the purpose, it is 
thought, of enabling the insect to examine more 
distinctly objects that are near. These organs 
are very conspicuous in the common hive-bee. 

Emma. 

Insects have the sense of sight then in great 
perfection. 

Mr. B. 

And all the other senses. They can not only see, 
but, it is evident, that they can also hear, and touch, 
and taste, and smell; though in what manner, 
that is to say, through the medium of what organs, 
it is not so easy to decide. The remark of Fa- 
bricius, the distinguished Danish naturalist, that 
u nothing in natural history is more abstruse and 
difficult than an accurate description of the senses 
of animals,” is especially true with regard to 
insects. That they possess all the senses, there 
can be little doubt; but where they are placed, 





and how they are exerted, will perhaps ever remain 
matter of enquiry and speculation. 

Frederick. 

Is it certain that they can hear ? 

Mr. B. 

Yes. Some larvae even appear to have the 
power of hearing. Bonnet tells us of a species 
of caterpillar that was moving very swiftly, but 
instantly stopped, and put the anterior part of 
the body into brisk motion, at the sound of a 
small bell. That insects possess this faculty in 
their mature state, is still more strongly confirmed 
by facts. Mr. Kirby says that at brisk and dis¬ 
tinct sounds, he has observed flies to move all 
their legs, and spiders to quit their prey, and 
retire to their hiding places. A very satisfactory 
proof, as Mr. K. remarks, that insects can hear, 
is to be had from those Orthoptera and Uemi- 
ptera , whose males are vocal. Brunelli kept and 
fed in a closet several male grasshoppers, (Acrida 
viridissima,) which continued singing merrily all 
the day; but a rap at the door would stop them 
instantly. By practice, he learned to imitate 
their chirping. When he did this at the door, 
at first a few would answer him in a low note, 




and then the whole party would take up the tune, 
and sing with all their might. He once shut 
up a male in his garden, and gave the female 
her liberty ; but as soon as she heard the male 
chirp, she flew to him immediately. If you wish 
to catch a grasshopper, you must approach very 
gently; it will cease chirping at the sound of 
a footstep, even at some yards distant. Goldsmith 
tells a story of a house being cleared of crickets, 
with which, to the annoyance of the inmates, 
it, had long been infested, by a loud band of 
music at a wedding. 

Emma. 

But where are their ears, Papa ? 

Mr. B. 

That, Emma, as I just now stated, is a question 
more easily asked than answered. It seems pro¬ 
bable, I think, that the antennae answer this 
purpose. They stand out from the head in a 
manner analogous to the ears of vertebrated ani¬ 
mals ; and their number, always two, corresponds 
to them. Some experiments that have been made 
appear also to prove that whatever other purposes 
these wonderful organs may answer, that of hearing 
is at least an important one. Mr. Kirby tells us 





that on making a quiet, not a loud but a distinct 
noise, a little moth, that was reposing upon his 
window, immediately moved towards him the 
antenna that was nearest to him. He repeated 
the noise at least a dozen times, and it was 
followed every time by the same motion of that 
organ; till at length, the insect being alarmed, 
became more agitated and violent in its motions. 

It is very difficult, as I just now remarked, 
even to conjecture on the senses of animals, whose 
perceptions are so much more delicate and keen 
than our own, and appear indeed to commenoe 
where ours terminate. There is little doubt that 

“They hear a sound we cannot hear, 

They see a sign we cannot see 

but how, it is beyond our power to determine. 
As we know, however, that their eyes are ad¬ 
mirably adapted for sight, it is not unreasonable 
to suppose that their antennae may be equally 
well adapted for hearing. Who can tell that 
every joint of some of them at least is not an 
acoustic implement? 

Let us examine these organs a little more 
particularly. You observe that every insect has 
two, and only two antennae; which are placed 





in most cases, in the space between, or a little 
below the eyes, not behind them; and that they 
consist, in general, of a number of tubular joints. 
Though in structure alike, they vary exceedingly 
in size and shape. Some resemble slender threads, 
others are thick and broad; some are very 
long, others remarkably short; some are what 
botanists would call 'pectinate; others, palmate; 
others, serrated . Kirby and Spence describe 
thirty-two different sorts of them, 

Frederick. 

Yes: I perceive they are very various. In 
dragon-flies they are scarcely perceptible; while 
in crickets, they are longer than the body. The 
beetles seem to have the greatest variety of them. 
Why are they called antennce , Father? Antenna 
in Latin means the yard of a ship’s mast. 

Mr. B. 

The name was probably adopted from an idea 
long since exploded, that they are useful to insects 
in flight. Aristotle called them by the scarcely 
more suitable name of horns. The truth is, that 
we know so little of their uses, that it is difficult 
to agree upon an appropriate name. 



M. Huber and his son supposed that, in the 
Hymenoptera order at least, the antennae are the 
organs of conversation, as well as of hearing. 
They tell us of “ the antennal language,” as they 
call it, both of bees and ants. According to them, 
ants have been observed to intimate to their friends 
the approach of danger; to ascertain their 
own party when mingled with the enemy; to 
warn their companions in the interior of the ant 
hill of the presence of the sun; to indicate their 
route in their excursions; to give the signal for 
departure; and even when hungry, to ask of 
others food, by striking those they meet in an 
impressive manner with these organs, the effect 
of which intelligence has been immediately per¬ 
ceptible. 

With regard to bees, the elder Huber made 
some curious experiments, which seem to prove 
this use of the antennae. Wishing to ascertain 
whether, when these sagacious insects have lost 
a queen, (intelligence of which is conveyed through¬ 
out the hive in about an hour,) they discovered 
the sad event by their smell, their touch, or any 
unknown means, he first divided a hive bv a 
grate, which kept the portions about a quarter 



of an inch apart, so they could have no intercourse, 
though scent could pass. In that part in hich 
there was no queen, they were soon in great 
agitation, and in a short time began to construct 
royal cells. He then separated a hive by a par¬ 
tition, through which they could pass their 
antennae, but not their heads. In this case, 
the bees all remained tranquil. To assure them¬ 
selves that their queen was in their vicinity, and 
to communicate with her, they passed their an¬ 
tennae through the openings of the grate, and 
a great number of these organs might be seen 
at once, enquiring as it were in all directions, 
while the queen was observed fastened by her 
feet to the grate, and assiduously replying to 
these solicitous enquiries of her subjects, by 
crossing her antennae with those of the enquirers. 

Emma. 

I wonder what would be the effect of depriving 
an insect of its antennae. 

Mr. B. 

It would become listless and inactive; for 
these remarkable and inexplicable appendages seem 
to be intimately connected with its sentient 
powers. It is probable, that by means of them, 



as Mr. Kirby remarks, they not only receive 
from the atmosphere notices of sounds, but dis¬ 
cover alterations in its state, and foretel, by certain 
prognostics, when a change of weather is approach¬ 
ing. Bees, Mr. K. says, possess this prophetic 
faculty in a wonderful degree. When engaged 
in their daily labours, if a shower is approaching, 
though we can discern no signs of it, they foresee 
it, and return suddenly to their hives. If they 
wander far from home, and do not return till 
late in the evening, it is a prognostic to be de¬ 
pended on that the following day will be fine; 
but if they remain near their habitations, and 
are seen frequently going and returning, although 
no other indications of wet should be discoverable, 
clouds will soon arise, and rain come on. 

Frederick. 

I have sometimes observed that on the approach 
of a tempest, the air is unusually full of insects. 

Mr. B. 

And have you not also observed that before 
the storm comes on, all disappear, and scarcely 
one is to be seen? 

Emma. 

Their antennae then answer the purpose of 
barometers as well as of ears. 



Mr. B. 

So it has been conjectured. But perhaps the 
hairs with which many are thickly covered, 
also assist them in discovering the electric and 
other fluids dispersed in the atmosphere. 

Frederick. 

Are not the antennae their instruments of touch ? 
1 have observed that some keep them in continual 
motion. 

Mr. B. 

They are perhaps in part; but most insects 
are also furnished with palpi or feelers, which, 
as well as their tarsi or paws, appear to be 
employed for this purpose. The palpi are these 
projections near the mouth; they are usually 
four in number, cylindrical, smooth, and ending 
in a softish point. The upper pair, you see, are, 
in most cases, rather longer than the under, so 
that they reach the ground at the same time. 
If you place an insect on your hand, you may 
perceive that it continually applies its palpi to 
feel the surface on which it is moving. When it 
feeds also, it keeps them in constant activity 
upon the substance on which it is feeding. 




Frederick. 

Perhaps then the palpi assists insects in smelling 
and tasting. 

Emma. 

I can scarcely believe that they can smell and 
taste : they often eat such disagreeable things. 

Mr. B. 

Things that are disagreeable to us, Emma; and 
so are the train oil and putrid seahs flesh of the 
Greenlander, and the assafcetida that gives so 
high a gout to the dishes of the Affghans. That 
insects can both taste and smell, is abundantly 
evident from the preferences they shew, and the 
intrusions of which they are guilty. To say 
nothing of the odours which many of them emit, 
what but the sense of smell can attract them to 
our choicest fruits and flowers, and enable them to 
distinguish the grocer’s shop, and thebutcher’s stall? 
However carefully we conceal its favourite viand, 
the insect comes, lured by the scent, and uses 
every effort to gain access to the place from 
whence it emanates. 

Some physiologists have conjectured that the 
sense of smell resides in the palpi; others, in the 
antennae; and others have maintained that, as 




insects breathe through their sides, they must 
needs smell through them too, not considering 
that though we breathe most freely through the 
mouth, the faculty of smell resides only in the 
nose. Mr. Spence thinks that the senses both 
of smell and of taste are seated in the head, 
and perhaps pretty much in the same situation 
that they are in other animals; and an experiment 
which M. Huber made, inclines me to be of the 
same opinion. He applied with a fine hair pencil, 
some oil of turpentine, to tire smell of which bees 
have a particular dislike, to the abdomen, the 
trunk, the eyes, the antennae, and the head of a 
bee, without any effect; but when he pointed 
the pencil near the cavity of the mouth above the 
insertion of the proboscis, the little animal ex¬ 
hibited the most extraordinary agitation. 

Emma. 

Then insects really have noses !—Perhaps they 
have also tongues and palates for tasting. 

Mr. B. 

They have tongues, Emma, certainly; and 
therefore in all probability they are the organs 
of taste. 

The mention of the tongue leads me to make 




a remark or two on the mouths of insects. I have 
before hinted that, in reference to the structure of 
the mouth, insects are divided into two extensive 
groups:—the Haustellata , as they are called, or 
those that take their food by suction; and the 
Mandibulata , or those that bite it. Among the 
Haustellata are the wingless inseets, such as lice and 
fleas, with the Hemiptera , Lepidoptera, and 
Diptera ; or bugs, butterflies, crickets, and flies. 
The Mandibulata include the insects most dis¬ 
tinguished for character and intelligence;—that 
is to say, the Coleoptera, Orihoptera , Neu- 
roptera , and Hymenoptera orders, among which 
are beetles, locusts, dragon-flies, and bees ; though 
as bees never use their jaws for mastication, but 
really lap their food with the tongue, they may 
more properly be denominated tappers. 

I cannot enter into a minute description of the 
varieties observable in either of these divisions. 
In the Hemiptera , the insect has a hollow grooved 
beak, containing four slender threads, which the 
little creature inserts into the substance, whether 
animal or vegetable, on which it feeds, and through 
which it sucks up the juices that form its nutriment. 
Entomologists call this sort of mouth the promuscis. 



When at rest, it is usually laid between the legs. 
You may see it in this bug which I have put into 
the microscope. 

Gnats, horseflies, and other Diptera are provided 
with a proboscis or trunk, on the same general 
plan, but of a more complicated structure, by 
means of which they puncture the skin, and suck 
in the blood. You may easily watch the process 
for yourself, if you will allow one to settle on your 
hand. Some of these have but one lancet; others 
three; the horse-fly has four, and the blood-thirsty 
gnat five: some acutely pointed at the extremity, 
others jagged on one side like a saw. 

Butterflies and moths are still more elegantly 
furnished with a tube, or antlia , as Mr. Kirby 
calls it; in some, not less than three inches long ; 
which is admirably fitted for extracting the honey 
secreted in the nectaries of flowers. This tube, 
when not in use, is coiled up under the head, 
like the spring of a watch. You see it in this 
nettle-butterfly,—with the point of a pin, Emma, 
you may easily unroll it. The antlia , which is 
a cartilaginous substance, apparently composed of 
a series of minute rings, and moved by an equal 




number of distinct muscles, is in fact composed of 
three distinct tubes; two on the sides for the 
reception of air, and one in the centre, through 
which alone the honey is conveyed, formed of 
two separate grooves, which, by a most curious 
apparatus of hooks, like those in the lamina of 
a feather, can either be united into an air-tight 
canal, or instantly separated at the will of the 
insect. I have here a highly-magnified drawing of 
it.* By darting this organ, which the insect has 
the power of instantly unrolling, into the bottom 
of a flower, it draws up through it a supply 
of the delicious nectar. 

Emma. 

How very wonderful ! 

Mr. B. 

It is indeed. How different this trunk from 
the voracious jaws of the larva ! 

Frederick. 

It is remarkable that the instruments of nu¬ 
trition in insects in the larva and perfect states 
should often differ so much. While larvae, I 
suppose, all the Lepidoptera are furnished with 
jaws. 

 


Mr. B. 

Yes: and so are some of the Diptera. 

Frederick. 

Is there much variety in the mouths of those 
insects that masticate their food ? 

Mr. B. 

Yes: their jaws are of very different construc¬ 
tions ; but all, as Mr. Kirby remarks, admirably 
adapted for their intended services. u Some are 
sharp, and armed with spines and branches, for 
tearing flesh ; others are hooked for seizing, and 
at the same time hollow for suction; some are 
calculated like shears for cutting leaves; others, 
more resembling grindstones, are of a strength 
and solidity sufficient to reduce the hardest wood 
to powder.” One singularity attending the major 
part of masticating insects is, that they possess 
in fact two pairs of jaws, an upper and an under 
pair; both opening, as I told you was the case 
in the larva, not vertically as ours do, but hori¬ 
zontally, or from side to side. The upper pair 
are apparently for the seizure and mastication 
of their prey; the under, when hooked, for 
retaining and tearing, while the upper comminute 
it, previously to its being swallowed. 





I have here a front view of a locust’s head,* 
taken so as to exhibit the mouth, which will give 
you a general idea of this construction. 

Emma. 

You said just now, Papa, that bees do not use 
their jaws for mastication;—then of what use are 
they? 

Mr. B. 

They find them very useful as tools in their 
various mechanical arts and labours; to some of 
the Hymenoptera , “they supply the place of 
trowels, spades, and pickaxes; to others, that 
of saws, scissors, and knives,—with many other 
uses.” A piece of honeycomb, or a wasp’s nest, 
will furnish you with ample proof of their utility. 

Would you like to see a bee lap? One has 
just flown in at the window, which we will put 
under a tumbler, placing a drop of water on the 
edge, and with a magnifying glass you may 
readily witness it. Do you not perceive its long 
tongue darted out from the sheath, and already 
employed in quaffing the refreshing beverage ? 

Frederick. 

I was not aware that any insects took water. 



Mr. B. 

To several, particularly bees and ants, it is 
nearly as essential as it is to ourselves, and they 
lap it with great eagerness. Locusts are very 
fond of drink 5 they search with their antennae 
for the dew-drops that hang upon the leav'es, 
and sip them with avidity; many butterflies, and 
moths too, especially in warm climates, are so 
eager for water, that they are chiefly to be taken 
near the margin of drains. Even some larvae 
have been seen to swallow it; there is one species, 
it is said, ( 0denestis potatoria,) that after drink¬ 
ing, lifts up its head like a hen. 

Well, we have spent more than an hour upon 
the tiny insect’s head, and must defer till to¬ 
morrow the examination of the equally interesting 
body and limbs. 

Emma. 

It has been an agreeable hour, Papa, and 
seems to have passed away very quickly. 
Perhaps you will answer just one more question, 
and that is, how such little creatures manage to 
make so much noise, as many of them do. 

Mr. B. 

Not with the voice, Emma, for they have none ; 





that is to say, no insect emits any sound from 
the mouth. 

Frederick. 

Does not the death’s-head moth? I once 
caught one, and as long as I held it in my 
hand, it uttered a strong sharp cry, resembling 
the squeaking of a mouse, only more plaintive. 

Mr. B. 

The sound was not produced by the mouth, 
but by the friction of the palpi against the antlia 
or spiral tongue, which I just now described 
to you. 

Insects of booming or humming flight appear 
to produce the sound by the vibration of their 
wings, occasioned probably by their friction 
against the trunk. If you watch a bee, as she 
passes from flower to flower, you will observe 
that when she alights to collect the nectared 
treasure, the hum ceases, but that it is resumed 
the moment she leaves it, and her wings are 
again in motion. The chirping of the cricket 
tribes is caused by the Auction of the bases of their 
elytra , or wing-cases, against each other. 


SIXTH EVENING. 


Structure of insects continued.—Divisions of the body: 
abdomen, trunk, legs.—Immense strength of insects; 
instanced in locusts, fleas, beetles, &c., and proved by 
their great agility. Linn6’s remark upon it.—Adapt¬ 
ation of the legs of insects to their modes of life.— 
Suckers of the feet of flies.—Insects distinguished by 
the number of joints in their tarsi.—Claws, foot- 
cushions.—-Wings of insects.—Flight of the Coleoplera, 
Orthoptera, Neuroptera, Hymenoptera, Lepidoptera, 
and Diptera.—Supposition respecting the employ¬ 
ment of flies.—Speed of their flight.—Covering of the 
wings of insects: of those of the Lepidoptera.—Proofs 
that insects are not endowed with much acuteness of 
feeling.—Modes of catching them.—Proofs that they 
have stated periods of repose analogous to sleep.—Best 
man ner of killing and of setting them. 

Now, Papa, will you open the cabinet again, 
and let us go on with the structure of insects. 
We have had only the head yet, you know: you 
must have a great deal more to tell us. 

Mr. B. 

A great deal more remains to be told, my love, 
than you could possibly understand. I have 
selected, however, a few obvious facts, which 
cannot fail to interest you. 




I pointed out to you in the larva, that the body 
is divided into rings or segments.* The number 
of them, including the head, is usually thirteen. 
In the perfect state, the insect still retains these 
thirteen segments; they are, however, no longer 
all alike, but combined into the separate divisions 
of head, trunk, and abdomen ; the trunk contain¬ 
ing three, and the abdomen nine. 

Of the abdomen, I shall say little. Along the 
sides of it are arranged a principal part of the 
organs of respiration, that is to say, of the spira¬ 
cles or orifices, by means of which, as I before 
told you, insects breathe; it may therefore be 
considered as the chief seat of the vital powers. 
In the majority of insects, it is united to the trunk 
by the whole diameter of its base; but in most of 
the Hyynenoptera , and in some of the Diptera , 
the union is formed by a kind of pedicle or foot¬ 
stalk. As you are familiar with botanical terms, 
I will just say, that this slender pedicle is called 
the petiolus. 

Emma. 

I have observed it in wasps. In some of the 
Hymenoptera you have here, it is long, but in 
others it is very short. 




Mr. B. 

The mechanism of the petiolus, by means of 
which the insect is enabled to lift the heavy 
abdomen, is, according to Mr. Kirby, very wonder¬ 
ful. “ You would be surprised,” he says, “were 
I seriously to assert, that these insects lift their 
weighty posteriors by means of a rope and pulley, 
yet something like this really does take place.” 

The trunk is a still more remarkable part of the 
insect; it is the great centre of motion, and the 
support and prop both of the head and the 
abdomen. 

Frederick. 

It contains I suppose the muscles by which all 
the limbs are moved. 

Mr. B. 

Yes: and if you should ever study entomology 
with the eye of an anatomist, you will be surprised 
at its complex and varied mechanism. 

The trunk or thorax consists, as I have just 
said, of three principal divisions; of which the 
first, or that nearest the head, is usually more 
distinct from the other two, than they are from 
each other. This is sometimes called the mani- 
trunky because the fore-legs, or arms, are attached 





to it. The other two/which in many insects form 
but one piece without any separation, are called 
the alitrunk , because while below they each bear 
a pair of legs, above they bear the organs for 
flight. I have partially dissected a beetle*, (Calo - 
soma sycophantis,) in order to give you a clearer 
idea of these sections:—the first, you perceive, 
bears, as I just now said, the two arms; the 
second, the intermediate legs, and the elytrae or 
primary wings; and the third, the hind legs and 
the secondary wings. 

Emma. 

I never observed that there was any difference 
between the fore legs of insects and their hind ones. 

Mr. B. 

Your observations hitherto, my dear Emma, 
have been of a very superficial character.—Look 
at any of the insects before you, or at the positions 
of any living ones you may happen to meet with, 
and you will perceive that the anterior legs 
uniformly point towards the head. If you observe 
them in motion, you will see that almost all not only 
employ these legs for taking hold of substances, 
but that they also climb by them, something as 




monkeys do. Some use them to seize and despatch 
their prey; and others, the mole cricket for 
example and other burrowing insects, employ 
them for digging. In the mole cricket, you see, 
they are really formed something like hands. Did 
you never notice flies cleaning themselves, how 
busily they rub and wipe the head and trunk with 
these arms ? 

Frederick. 

Moses describes insects as going upon four legs*, 
which seems as if he considered the two front legs 
as you do. 

Mr. B. 

Very well remarked, Frederick : In this case, as 
in numerous others, the inspired penman corrobo¬ 
rates the observations on nature which we make 
in the present day. 

In one respect, the arms and legs of insects are 
alike. They both generally consist of five pieces 
or joints,—the coxa or hip,—the trochanter 
the femur or thigh, which is usually the longest 
and most conspicuous partthe tibia or shank, 
—and the tarsus or foot. 


* See Leviticus xi. 20—23. 



Frederick. 

The coxa or hip is, I suppose, the joint that 
connects the leg with the trunk. 

Mr. B. 

It is; and its form bears a strong resemblance 
to the ball and socket joints by which our limbs 
are united to the body. The trochanter is the 
second joint of the leg, and may be considered 
analogous to what is vulgarly called the kneepan . 

Frederick. 

One thing that strikes me in looking over the 
cabinet is, that the legs of different insects, though 
composed of the same number of parts, are often 
very different in size and conformation. 

Mr. B. 

Adaptation is adistinguishing feature in all the 
works of God. So uniformly is this regarded, 
that from the form of the animal, it is generally easy 
to predicate its habits and modes of life. The 
large thick thighs observable in the hind-legs 
of many beetles, and of all the locust tribes, 
allowing space for the action of powerful muscles, 
indicate them to have great strength of limb for 
running and leaping; while the light and slender 

 


legs of others prove that they are not designed 
for long sustained pedestrian efforts. 

Frederick. 

All the beetles appear to have rather stout 
strong legs when compared with those of some 
other orders. 

Ms. B. 

The Coleoptera are altogether very powerful 
insects; the strength of a cock-chafer has been 
computed to be, bulk for bulk, six times that of a 
horse; and that of some beetles a thousand times 
that of a man. You soon perceive a beetle’s 
strength if you attempt to hold one in your hand. 
I may add, that insects generally in their perfect 
as well as in their larva state, are endowed with 
great muscular power, as their activity sufficiently 
evinces. A locust or a flea will leap two hundred 
times its own length; and Rosel asserts that the 
mole cricket is capable of pushing forward with 
his fore feet on an even surface a weight of six 
pounds. 

Emma. 

I remember, now you mention the strength of 
fleas, reading of one that drew a silver cannon 
supported on two little wheels which weighed 





eighty times as much as itself, and with which 
it ran along with the greatest ease. 

Mr. B. 

Hook tells us something more wonderful still.—* 
An English artist constructed an ivory coach with 


six horses, having a coachman on the box, with a 
dog between his legs, a postillion, two footmen 
behind, and four persons within, which was also 
drawn by a single flea ! 

The agility of insects is also, as I have just 
said, a proof of their immense strength. Not 
only do beetles, those predaceous ones especially, 
which Linn6 has denominated 66 the tigers of the 
insect world ” run with astonishing rapidity, but 
some more minute insects, ants and flies for instance, 
move with inconceivable speed. Mr. Delisle ob¬ 
served a fly, so small as to be almost invisible, 
which ran nearly three inches in a demi-second, 
and in that space made five-hundred and forty 
steps; which is equal to the speed of a man, who 
should run at the far more than railroad pace of 
twenty miles in a minute. 

Frederick. 

It is fortunate for us that animals of large size 
have not been endowed with a muscular power 
proportionable to that of insects. 



Mr. B. 

It is indeed. If the elephant, as Linn6 has 
observed, were strong in proportion to the stag- 
beetle, it would be able to pull up rocks by the 
root, and to level mountains; and were the lion 
and the tiger as strong and swift for their magni¬ 
tude as those tigers among insects, the Cicindela 
and the Cardbus , nothing could have escaped 
them by precaution, or withstood them by strength. 
But to return to the legs of insects.— 

Emma. 

Why have crane-flies such long legs ? 

Mr. B. 

You have heard of the shepherds of Les Landes, 
in the province of Bourdeanx, who, to make their 
way over the deep mire of winter and sands of 
summer, always walk on high stilts;—the long 
legs of these flies answer a similar purpose, and 
enable them to move with ease over and among 
the grass, for the purpose of depositing their eggs. 

If you attentively examine the legs of insects, 
you will see that their adaptations consist not alone 
in their proportions. Look, for example, at the 
hind-legs of this water-beetle, (Dytiscus margi¬ 
nalise) or of this water-boatman (Notonecta,) 





how peculiarly they are fitted for swimming by 
a dense fringe of hair on the shank and foot; 
while those of others, of the stag-beetle (Lucanus) 
for instance, with their jointed tarsi and claws, are 
equally well adapted for walking. 

Emma. 

I have often wondered how flies and other 
insects of that sort manage to stand and walk, 
not only on the window and wall, but even on 
the ceiling, as they do. 

Mr. B. 

They are furnished, my dear, with an apparatus, 
by which they can form a vacuum, so as to adhere 
by atmospheric pressure to the surface on which they 
are moving. You remember that when you laid 
your hand over the tube of the air-pump the other 
day, as soon as the air under it was exhausted, 
the vacuum caused it to adhere to the tubejust in 
the same manner a vacuum which is produced 
under the skinny palms of some insects’ feet, 
enables them to walk or to repose on the ceiling, 
with as much ease as they could do on the floor, 
and with more safety. This highly magnified 
drawing of the foot of a large fly* (Musca vomi - 

 


toria) will give you an idea of this structure. It 
is formed, you see, of “two suckers connected 
with the last joint of the tarsus by a narrow in¬ 
fundibular neck, which has power of motion in 
all directions, immediately under the root of each 
claw. These suckers consist of a membrane capa¬ 
ble of extension and contraction; they are concavo- 
convex, with serrated edges, the concave surface 
being downy, and the convex, granulated. When 
in action, they are separated from each other, and 
the membrane is expanded, so as to increase the sur¬ 
face; by applying this membrane closely to the 
plane of position, the air is sufficiently expelled to 
produce the pressure necessary to keep the animal 
from falling. When the suckers are disengaged, 
they are brought together again, so as to be confined 
within the space between the two claws ” One 
of these large flies has just alighted on the table; 
we will put a tumbler over him, and by the assist¬ 
ance of a common microscope you may see, as he 
moves on the glass, the action of these suckers for 
yourself. It is the fixing of them that produces 
the stinging sensation you sometimes feel,when 

flies alight upon you. 

Emma. 

But when my hand was held down on the 





air-pump, I could not possibly move it; which 
I did not wonder at when you told me that a 
column of air of more than two hundred pounds 
weight was resting on it:—how is it that flies 
do not find the weight of the air an impediment 
to them ? 

Mr. B. 

Do you not remember what we just now said 
about the immense muscular power of insects? 
Flies are far stronger than you, you know. In 
the autumn, however, when the chilly weather 
makes them torpid and feeble, you may observe 
that they move with difficulty, and are scarcely 
able to lift their legs, which seem as if glued to 
the glass,—just as your hand seemed glued to 
the air-pump,—and by degrees, many do actually 
stick till they die on the place. 

Frederick. 

Looking attentively at the feet of insects, I 
perceive that they vary in the number of joints. 

Mr. B. 

They do. Some, and indeed the greater number, 
have jive joints in all their tarsi;-“these are termed 
pentamerous insects : in others, the number of joints 
differs in the different pairs of legs; these are called 




heteromerous insects: in others, all the tarsi con¬ 
sist of four joints; they are said to be tetramerous: 
in others, the lady-bird ( Coccinnella ,) for instance, 
they consist of only three joints; these are called 
trimerous others, that have only two joints, are 
called dimerous ; and the very few that have bat 
one 9 monomerous . 

Frederick. 

I see the arrangement of the Coleoptera de¬ 
pends on this circumstance. 

Mr. B. 

Yes: that class is divided into four sections 
according as the insects belonging to it are pen - 
tcmerousy heteromerous , tetramerous ,or trimerous . 
You observe that th epentamera and the tetramera 9 
those with five joints, and and those with four, 
are by far the most numerous. 

The claws of insects are of too great use to 
them to be passed by unnoticed. It is by means 
of these implements, that the tree-chafer, ( Melo - 
lontha vulgaris ,) the rose-chafer, ( Cetonia aurata ,) 
and other predaceous tribes, ascend the plants and 
trees in pursuit of their prey, and maintain their 
station on the vegetable beauties they are laying 
waste. Look through the microscope at those 





of this beautiful though ferocious insect ( Colo - 
soma sycophanta) which I have dissected, and 
you will judge how useful they must be in enabling 
it to mount the rugged trunk and branches of the 
oak, and to retain its grasp of the leaf or spray, 
of which it has taken hold. See how very acutely 
hooked they are. It is no wonder that it is so 
difficult to detach a beetle from the plant on which 
it is found. These claws, however, prevent their 
walking with equal ease on very smooth surfaces. 
Beetles cannot climb the window as they climb 
a tree; those at least that have no other climbing 
implements than their claws. 

Frederick. 

I have observed some to climb smooth surfaces, 
and even to support themselves against gravity. 
The bloody-nose beetle (Timarcha tenebricosa ) 
can; I have seen it adhere to the under part of 
the trailing plant on which it feeds, with the 
greatest ease. 

Mr. B. 

Many tribes are able to do this; but in this 
case they are furnished with foot cushions , com¬ 
posed of thickly-set hairs, with which the under 
side of the joints of the tarsi are covered. These 




cushions are particularly conspicuous in the Chry - 
somelidcB , a beautiful tribe of plant-beetles. 

Let us now look for a few moments at the wings 
of insects. 

Every wing consists of two transparent mem¬ 
branes, applied to each other. Between these 
membranes lie the veins or nervures , as they 
are termed, that sometimes give to the wings of 
insects a reticulated appearance. These nervures, 
which are most numerous in the wings of those 
insects that are of the most untiring and rapid 
flight, are hollow tubes, that take their origin 
in the trunk, and being furnished with air- 
vessels, which can be filled with air at the 
will of the insect, give tension to the wings, 
and render them buoyant; so that the little 
creatures can soar aloft, join in the choral dance, 
and hum their notes of joy at an elevation in the 
air which is beyond the ken of human vision. 

Emma. 

I should think beetles with their stiff horny 
wings, cannot fly either very high or very fast. 

Mr. B. 

Very few of them can. In regard to flight, the 
Coleoptera are considered the most imperfect of 





four-winged insects; they use their wings indeed 
only upon great emergencies, and as a last re¬ 
source, If you touch, or but attempt to touch, 
a moth, a bee, or a fly, or other winged insect, 
he flies away in a moment; but if you touch a 
a beetle, he either throws himself on his back 
and counterfeits death, or he run3 off with all 
possible speed. It is indeed to the strength of 
his legs, far more than to his wings, that he trusts 
on all occasions. 

The elytrce or stiff 1 horny wings, as you call 
them, are not, however, implements of flight. 
They are only the covers or cases of the wings, 
and in flight are generally motionless. The 
proper wings, which you will find folded up under 
them, are usually very ample, and present in their 
substance, which is generally of a character be¬ 
tween membrane and parchment, and in the large 
nervures that traverse and extend them, that 
appearance of strength for which this class of 
insects is pre-eminently remarkable. Did you 
ever observe a beetle flying ? It maintains a 
nearly vertical position, which gives to the larger 
sorts a very singular appearance. 

Very few people are aware that earwigs {For- 
 


ficula) have wings; but they are furnished with 
very curious, and in proportion to their size, with 
very ample ones. I will endeavour to open one, 
that you may see it. It lies very neatly folded 
up under the little elytra. Its shape, and the 
arrangement of the nervures, give it a fan-like 
appearance. 

Emma. 

Can the other Orthoptera , such as locusts and 
crickets, fly ? 

Mr. B. 

Have you forgotten, my love, that locusts some¬ 
times fly in such clouds as to darken the air? 
House crickets, and also field and mole crickets 
have been observed to fly with an undulating 
motion, like a woodpecker, alternately ascending 
with expanded wings, and descending with folded 
ones; locusts probably fly in the same manner. 

Frederick. 

The Neuroptera seem admirably formed for 
flight. How elegant the wings of these dragon¬ 
flies ( Libellulince ) are; all four nearly of a size, 
and formed of a pure, transparent, glassy membrane, 
closely intersected with nervures like a beautiful 
piece of network, or fine lace. 

 

Mr. B. 

They are insects of very rapid flight, I have 
sometimes been amused to watch a swallow in 
pursuit of one; and to see that, with all his swift- 
ness, he was unable to overtake and entrap it. 
Such indeed is the power of the long wings 
of these insects, and such the force of the mus¬ 
cles that move them, that they seem never to 
be wearied with flying. You may see them 
sailing for hours over a piece of water, sometimes 
to and fro, sometimes wheeling from side to side, 
without ever appearing tired or disposed to alight. 

Another faculty which dragon-flies in common 
with some other insects possess, and which enables 
them still more effectually to elude the pursuit of 
birds, is that of being able to fly in all directions 
without turning. By constantly facing the enemy 
they effectually prevent surprise. 

The Hy menoptera are also insects of active wing. 

Emma. 

Indeed they are. If you offend a wasp or a 
hive of bees, it is no easy matter to escape their 
vengeance. 

Mr. B. 

The peaceful and gentle humble-bees are the 





most powerful fliers among them. If you notice 
them in flight, you will see that they traverse the 
air in segments of a circle, and with a rapidity far 
exceeding in proportion to their size, that of 
any bird. 

Frederick. 

I love to watch butterflies fluttering on their 
broad painted wings from flower to flower, and 
from field to field. 

Mr. B. 

Their fluttering is occasioned by the weight of 
the scales with which their wings are covered. 
The distance to which some Lepidoptera will fly is 
astonishing. The male of one species of silk-worm 
(Attacus paphia) is said sometimes to travel to 
a distance of more than a hundred miles \ and our 
most beautiful butterfly, the purple emperor, (Apa- 
tura iris,) launching into the air from one of the 
highest twigs of some lofty monarch of the forest, 
often mounts to so great a height as to become 
invisible. 

“Above the sovereign oak a sovereign skims, 

The purple emperor, strong in wing and limbs. ” 

Frederick. 

He must indeed be cc strong in wing and limbs, 5 ' 
to be able to soar to such inaccessible heights. 




Mr, B. 

The wings of the Lepidoptera , particularly of the 
larger species, are exceedingly strong, both as to 
nervures and texture. How powerful must be those 
of hawk-moths (Sphinx,) for example, to enable 
them, notwithstanding the weight of their large 
bodies, to sustain such rapid flights ! 

Frederick. 

Hawk-moths fly very differently from butterflies. 
Their course is direct ; when that of butterflies is 
by dipping and rising alternately. 

Mr. B. 

They fly, you remember, in the twilight or by 
night, when birds are asleep; the zigzag course of 
the diurnal Lepidoptera is doubtless designed as a 
means of defence against these predaceous enemies. 
It is very difficult for a bird to catch a butterfly 
on the wing. 

Emma. 

I often watch with interest the aerial progress 
of flies, now dancing up and down, now darting 
first in this direction and then in that, as if in 
pursuit of prey. 

Frederick. 

Do you not think, Father, they really are in 





pursuit of prey ? Mr. Burnett, in his Outlines of 
Botany, states, you know, that the minute seeds 
or sporules of the fungi that produce blights and 
mildews, float about in the atmosphere in count¬ 
less myriads, only waiting for the presence of a 
fitting soil on which to alight and grow; and it 
has occurred to me, that the JDiptera with their 
microscopic eyes may be employed to lessen 
the number of these sporules; they certainly do 
seem, as Emma says, to be darting after prey, 

Mr. B, 

The thought has occurred also to me; but as I 
do not remember to have met with a supposition 
of the kind from any naturalist, I have hardly 
ventured to suggest it. Should it be proved that 
the clouds of flies and gnats that 

“ Sport together in the solar beam , v 
are actually engaged in thinning the ranks of 
those vegetable legions that bring mildew, blight, 
and famine in their train, it will afford additional 
evidence of the wise economy which the God of 
nature exercises in his works. I am certainly 
inclined to think that some of the Diptera are so 
employed: their motions and evolutions have more 
the appearance of business than of sport. 





It is very interesting, as Emma just now 
observed, to watch insects of this order on the 
wing. The gnat (Culex pipiens ) sailing along 
in different directions, upwards, downwards, ob¬ 
liquely, with a motion of the wings so rapid as 
to be imperceptible; the slender crane-fly stretching 
out its arms and hind-legs, the one forming the 
prow and the other the stem of the vessel in its 
voyage through the ocean of air ; and the fly tribes 
(. Muscidce) sometimes remaining for a moment 
stationary, and then darting along with the celerity' 
and directness of an arrow. 

Frederick. 

You have told us the rate of speed at which 
some flies can run, —has that of their flight been 
estimated ? 

Mr. B. 

I have met with a calculation respecting the 
flight of the common fly (Masca domestica .) 
It is said that it usually makes with its wings 
six hundred strokes, which carry it five feet, every’ 
second; but that, if alarmed, its velocity can be 
increased six or seven fold, or to thirty or thirty® 
five feet, in the same period. 




Frederick, 

Astonishing! Why the celebrated race-horse 
Childers, which went at the rate of more than 
a mile in a minute, cleared only ninety feet in 
a second;—this little creature then can actually 
traverse in the same length of time one-third 
the distance of the most rapid race-horse! 

Mr. B. 

Did it equal the race-horse in size, retaining 
its present powers in the ratio of its magnitude, 
it would speed over the globe with the rapidity 
of lightning. 

Another particular to which I intended to direct 
your attention this evening is the clothing of insects, 
especially of the Lepidoptera . 

Frederick. 

I never observed that any others have clothing. 

Mr. B. 

All whose wings are not defended by a case, 
have some protective or ornamental covering. 
Pass your finger over the wing of this dragon-fly, 
do you not perceive that the longitudinal nervures 
are set with very minute bristles, pointing towards 
the extremity? The darkening which you may 
observe in the point of the wing of the humble-bee, 



is occasioned by a large number of hairs which 
seem to spring from a minute tubercle. In the 
common gnat, when the wings have not been 
rubbed, you may perceive that the nervures are 
adorned by a double series of scales, and that 
a fringe of them also ornaments the margin. 

The wings of the Lepidoptera are, however, 
by far the most gorgeously adorned. They are 
covered, as you are aware, with an infinite 
number of minute plumes or scales, so thickly 
planted in their upper and under surface as for 
the most part entirely to conceal the membrane. 
These scales, which at first view resemble dust, 
give to the insect the colours with which it is 
adorned. Scrape a little piece of this nettle- 
butterfly’s wing lightly with a pen-knife and 
put it into the microscope, and you will easily trace 
the lines in which they were planted.* You have 
left, you see, a few on, which will shew you the 
manner of their insertion. I must remark, how¬ 
ever, that though in some species the scales are 
arranged with great regularity, in others they 
are placed without any order. Their number is 
immense. The patient Leeuwenhoek counted 



more than four hundred thousand of them on 
the wings of a silk-worm moth; and in many 
larger species, they must be even far more nu¬ 
merous. I have here outlines of some* highly- 
magnified, by which you may see that they vary 
greatly in form as well as in arrangement. 

Frederick. 

How wonderful that there should be such variety 
in the habiliments, and that so much pains should 
be taken with the attire of even a butterfly ! 

Emma. 

Really, Papa, now I know how wonderfully 
formed and beautifully adorned insects are, I do 
not think I can ever bring myself to destroy 
one again. 

Mr. B. 

I hope, my love, you will never kill one with¬ 
out a sufficient reason ; but you must not indulge 
in undue sentimentalism on this subject. 

Frederick. 

I have often thought that I should like to 
make a collection of insects; but I have felt 
a little as Emma does:—I have not liked to 
kill them. 




Mr. B. 

If they are killed in a proper manner I do 
not apprehend that the mere loss of life occasions 
them pain. 

Frederick. 

You do not think then with our great poet, that 

-“The poor beetle that we tread upon, 

In corporal sufferance finds a pang as great, 

As when a giant dies.”— 

Mr. B, 

No: observations are all against such a sup¬ 
position. The unconcern they manifest at the 
loss of their limbs, sufficiently proves that the 
pain they suffer cannot be very acute. A crane- 
fly (Tipula,) as Mr. Kirby remarks, will leave 
half its legs in the hands of an unlucky boy, who 
has endeavoured to catch it, and will fly here and 
there with as much agility and indifference as if 
nothing had happened; and an insect impaled 
upon a pin will often devour its prey with as 
much avidity as when at liberty. Mr. K. says 
that he has seen the common cock-chafer move 
about with apparent unconcern after some bird 
had nearly emptied its body of the viscera; and 


 

an ant walk when it had lost its head. A 
humble-bee will eat honey greedily, though 
deprived of its abdomen; and the head of a wasp 
will attempt to bite, and the abdomen to sting, 
after separatiou from the rest of the body. These 
facts sufficiently prove that insects do not possess 
that irritability of nerve, and capability of pain, 
which are possessed by higher orders of animals. 

Frederick. 

But there are other difficulties in the way of 
making a collection :—it is difficult to catch insects; 
and when they are caught, it is difficult, to kill 
them without crushing them. 

Mr. B. 

A little adroitness is certainly required to catch 
them. For the Lepidoptera and other flying 
insects, you should have a net, made of gauze or 
coarse muslin, fixed to two rods about four feet 
long, and so contrived, that you can draw it to¬ 
gether in a moment, and secure your captive. 
For catching Diptera and Hymenoptera , when 
they alight on the leaves of plants and flowers, 
a kind of forceps is very useful. You may make 
it of an old pair of curling irons, by fixing to the 
ends octagonal brass hoops about six inches in 





diameter, covered with catgut or green gauze. 
With such an instrument, you may indeed take 
almost any insect that is for a moment stationary. 
The gauze should be sufficiently coarse to admit 
the head of a pin through the interstices, as it is 
sometimes necessary to transfix your victim before 
you attempt to take it out. Many beetles and 
moths may be easily taken, during their season of 
repose, by the hand. You may gather the leaf 
with the moth on, and quickly shut up leaf and 
moth together in a little tin box, with several of 
which you should be provided for the purpose. 

Emma. 

You speak of their season of repose:—do you 
mean that insects are sometimes to be found 
asleep ? 

Mr. B. 

I do not mean to assert that they sleep as we 
do; they cannot shut their eyes, for they have no 
evelids ; but from the fact that at certain intervals 
of the day or night they withdraw for a time 
from activity and observation, it is natural to 
conclude that during those intervals they resign 
themselves to a state of oblivious repose. You may 
indeed often find them in this state \ I have seen 



the cock-chafer which, as you know, flies only in 
the evening, roosting in a tree during the day, 
still and motionless, with his antennae folded to 
the breast; and I have often found moths on the 
north side of the trunk of a tree, perched on 
the lichens, with their wings and antennae folded, 
and themselves without motion, and perfect¬ 
ly insensible of the approach of my hand to 
capture them. Huber states with regard to bees, 
that he has frequently seen them when apparently 
wearied with exertion, even in the middle of the 
day, insert the half of their bodies into an empty 
cell, and remain there, as if taking a nap, for 
half an hour or more. At night, as you may ob¬ 
serve, the whole hive regularly assumes a state 
of sleep-like silence. It seems pretty evident, 
therefore, from these and from other facts that 
might be adduced, that insects have their periods 
of rest analogous, at least, to sleep; and if you 
can discover them during these periods, they may 
very easily be taken. 

Frederick. 

But then the killing , Father;—that seems the 
most difficult part of the affair. Killing them, 
I mean, so as not at all to injure their beauty. 





Mr. B. 

I have generally found immersing them in 
spirits of wine the easiest and most certain plan. 
When you go on your entomological researches, 
vou should take with vou a small wide-mouthed 

v * 

bottle full of this liquid, and as you catch your 
insects, put them in. They will soon be dead; 
and you may put all sorts and sizes together, 
without fear of their devouring each other. 
When you come home, strain your spirits of 
wine through a piece of muslin, return them to 
the bottle for future use, and lay your insects on. 
blotting paper to dry. Spirits of wine, however, 
will not do for the Lepidoptera; you must expose 
them to the action of heat; a low degree of which 
will be sufficient. Those you have in tin boxes, 
you may immerse in a basin of boiling water. 
Another good way of killing some insects that 
you do not wish to wet, is to impale them on a 
piece of elder, or some other soft wood which 
you have fixed tightly at the bottom of a jar ; 
and then, having inverted the jar in a deep basin, 
to pour in boiling water till it is covered; taking 
care, of course, to hold it down, so that the 
expansion of the included air may not overturn 





it. In two minutes or less, the insect will be 
found quite dead, and not at all wetted. 

When you have killed your insects, the next 
thing is to set them. You must have for this 
purpose a thin piece of cork with white paper 
pasted upon it, and some lace-pins of various 
sizes; with one of these pins you must fix each 
insect on the cork, passing your pin through the 
back of butterflies and some others, and through 
the left-hand elytra of beetles, and taking care 
that the legs do not touch the cork. Then, 
with narrow slips of thin card, you must brace 
down the legs, wings, and antennae, in the attitude 
most usually assumed by the living insect. Having 
done this, and taken care to secure your insects 
from the rapacity of earwigs, you must leave them 
for a few days exposed to the air to dry and stiffen. 
Some very small ones you will find it best to 
gum upon card; the attempt to pass a pin through 
them would probably quite destroy their beauty. 

Having completed the setting of your insects, 
and removed the braces, you must place them in 
your cabinet; the drawers and cases of which 
should be about an inch and a half, or two inches 
deep, and covered with glass; and together with 





them put in a little piece of camphor, to preserve 
them from the attacks of mites and other insect 
depredators. I should advise you first to arrange 
your specimens simply with reference to the orders 
to which they belong; as you become more 
practised in distinctions, you will easily separate 
them further according to their respective families, 
genera, subgenera, and species. You will bear in 
mind that by far the most numerous order, amount¬ 
ing to at least one half of the whole insect world, 
is th eColeoptera; and next to this, the Lepi - 
doptera and the Symenoptera . 

Being now in some measure acquainted with 
the physical history of insects, you will follow 
them, I hope, with increased pleasure and inte¬ 
rest into the field, the garden, and the forest, 
to inquire more particularly into the employments 
and social economy of these free-born denizens of 
earth and air. 

Emma. 

You said, I remember, that among insects were 
to be found the first geometricians and architects; 
the first weavers and spinners; the first paper- 
makers and fabricators of diving-bells and air- 
pumps ; indeed, the first practisers of several arts 
of which the invention is the boast of modern times. 




Mr. B. 

As we proceed, I hope to have the pleasure of 
introducing these little mechanics to your notice; 
and of proving to you their claims to precedency 
in the several arts they are found to practise. 


SEVENTH EVENING. 


Spiders :—particulars in which they differ from insects.— 
Remarkable for their ingenuity in capturing their prey.— 
Eyes, legs, mouth.—Not injurious to man.—Spiders 
an article of food.—Their apparatus for swimming.—• 
Mode of weaving of the garden-spider;—of the house- 
spider.—Spiders air-balloonists.—Gossamer webs.— 
Spider-silk.—Trap-door spiders.—Diving spiders. 

I am looking forward with high expectations to 
this evening, Papa, said Emma as she met her 
parents in one of the walks of the shrubbery. 

Mr. B. 

You are thinking of the little primitive artisans 
to which I have engaged to introduce you. 

Well, if it will be agreeable to Mamma, suppose 
we all take our seat in this arbour, and begin our 
evening’s entertainment at once. I see a member 
of one of the most skilful of the insect tribes, 
watching the web which he has woven between 
the boughs of the clematis: I do not know that 
we could have a better subject. 

Emma. 

But I thought, Papa, you did not reckon 
spiders among insects. 




Mr. B. 

They differ in so many particulars from other 
insects that naturalists have placed them, with 
some others, in a class by themselves, called, as I 
have told you, Arachnidce; but still, they have 
so many points of resemblance to insects in 
general, as well as connection with them, that no 
account of the insect world can be considered 
complete which does not include them. 

Frederick. 

In what particulars do spiders differ so much 
from other insects, Father ? 

Mr. B. 

Insects, you know, have no circulation of fluids: 
spiders have; their heart and blood-vessels are 
clearly perceptible; and in consequence they do 
not breathe through spiracles in the sides as insects 
do, but have organs that answer the purpose of 
lungs. In insects, the head is united to the body 
by means of slender threads : in spiders it is joined 
immediately to it. Insects, all hexapod insects 
at 'least, have two compound eyes: spiders have 
simple eyes more resembling the organs of vision 
in the higher orders of animals. Insects have 
only six legs: spiders when they have attained 




to maturity have eight. Spiders also have no 
antennce which, as you know, form an important 
part of the insect’s structure. 

The natural history of spiders is highly interest¬ 
ing, not only with regard to their physiology, 
but also to the wonderful instincts displayed by 
the different species in the construction of their 
webs, and the surprise and destruction of their 
victims. No sagacity exhibited by the higher 
orders of animals, not excepting even that of the 
“ half-reasoning beaver,” is at all equal to the skill 
displayed by spiders in forming their habita¬ 
tions and capturing their prey. Some bore 
tunnels for themselves in wood, earth, or any 
other penetrable substance, lining them with a 
silken tapestry of most beautiful texture adapted 
to resist humidity, and actually guarding the 
entrance by a trap-door. Others, of which we 
have a specimen before us, make large nets of the 
most regular conformation and curious fabric, 



near which the little fowler lies completely hidden 
from view, “ making semblance, ” as a quaint 
writer remarks, u as though he meant nothing less 
than that he doth, and as if he went about some 
other business! nay, so close lieth he, that it is 





Impossible to see whether any one be within or 
no/ ? until warned of the neighbourhood of his 
game by a line passing from the centre of the web 
to his place of concealment, he darts forth and 
attacks the unfortunate victim entangled in his toils. 
Others, that may be termed hunters , neither 
dig dens nor form nets; but conceal them¬ 
selves within a flower or a rolled-up leaf, or 
behind a stone, and dart upon any insect that 
chances to pass; while others employ various 
stratagems to decoy their victims, such as pretend¬ 
ing to be dead; and others, possessing peculiar 
agility, openly search after and seize their prey, 
springing upon it with the precision and ferocity 
of a tiger. One of these has been seen to spring 
upon a humble bee at a distance of two feet. 

Mrs. B. 

Spiders appear to be to the insect world, what 
beasts of prey are to quadrupeds. 

Mr. B. 

They very much resemble them. They are 
equally solitary and ferocious in their habits; like 
them they live entirely by prey, and like them too 
they hunt chiefly by night. 

I have a good magnifying glass in my pocket; 




and while this spider is quietly watching his web, 
we will examine him through it. 

Emma. 

How beautiful his skin appears ! it looks like a 
hard polished crust. 

Mr. B. 

You perceive that he has eight eyes on the top 
of the head. This number of eyes is common 
with few exceptions to all spiders; but they are 
differently placed in the different species. In 
some, they lie in two rows; in others, they form 
two sides of an angle; indeed, they assume every 
imaginable difference of position. It is chiefly by 
the arrangement of the eyes that the different 
species are distinguished. 

Emma. 

Are there many different species ? 

Mr. B. 

Naturalists have enumerated upwards of fifty. 

Frederick. 

Do spiders undergo any essential change in 
their progress to maturity ? 

Mr. B. 

Yes, in common with all articulated animals, 
they cast the outer skin several times and at stated 





periods ; and in the earlier stages of their existence 
they have a smaller number of legs: the last pair 
do not make their appearance until the spider has 
attained a certain size. 

I was going to shew you this spider’s mouth. 
It is furnished with two fangs, each terminating 
in a sharp talon, which stand out horizontally, and 
when not in use, are concealed in two cases 
contrived for their reception, into which they fold 
like a clasp knife. Each fang has at the point a 
a minute aperture, through which, when the victim 
is lacerated, a poisonous fluid is emitted that 
quickly dispatches it. 

Frederick. 

His legs also seem admirably well adapted for 
sanguinary encounters. 

Mr. B. 

They have each, you see, three joints, and 
terminate in two crooked claws, with a smaller one, 
something like a spur, between them. Every 
thing, indeed, in the structure of spiders points 
them out to be most ferocious little animals; and 
their habits do not contradict the inference we 
draw from their appearance. They attack and 
devour not only other insects, but each other; 




and that without mercy. Even the female does 
not spare her mate, unless he speedily make his 
escape out of her clutches. 

Emma. 

Then, Papa, it is not without reason that 
people are afraid of spiders. 

Mr. B. 

You mean, Emma, that insects are afraid of 
them. I never heard of a spider, however 
fierce and treacherous, killing and eating a man. 
They take pretty good care not to come near 
enough to do us any injury, even if they had 
the power to do it. If you approach one, and 
he is aware of you, he will run off as fast as he 
can 5 and if he find he cannot otherwise escape, 
he will fall down, curl up his legs, and assume 
the appearance of death. Depend upon it, a 
spider will never engage in the unequal warfare. 

Frederick. 

Do you mean to say, Father, that spiders never 
injure us ? 

Mr. B, 

I do not mean positively to say that; there may 
be, and probably there are, in warm countries, 
individual species whose bite is poisonous, but in 




very few, I apprehend, to a fatal extent. With 
regard to those in our latitude, M. Kollar, the 
distinguished German entomologist, says, that 
he had caught in his hand most of the native 
species without receiving the least injury from 
them; and that he had once been bitten by one, 
but that the bite produced no inflammation, and 
the pain of it passed away without the application 
of any remedy. Spiders, like other creatures, 
when persecuted and captured, will of course 
bite to defend themselves. 

Frederick. 

Is not the bite of the tarantula frequently fatal ? 

Mr. B. 

O ! no. Sad tales are related of its death¬ 
dealing powers; but it is now pretty clearly 
proved that these pretended effects were a long 
practised cheat put upon credulous travellers. 

There is, I believe, a species of spider found 
in Popayan, of a fiery red colour, called by the 
natives Coy a, the juices of whose body when 
crushed, are extremely venomous; but these 
spiders, like our own, are perfectly harmless 
while living. The Indians are wisely careful 
not to crush them. 


 

I have read of a woman being much injured 
by the juices of spiders in our own country; but 
then the silly cruel creature had only herself to 
thank for it. It was her custom, every time 
she went into the cellar with a candle, to bum all 
the cobwebs and spiders she could see. She had 
often felt dizzy and faint from the smell of the 
burning spiders, but nothing could cure her 
inhumanity till one day the legs of one of her 
unfortunate victims happening to stick in the 
candle, so that it could not disengage itself, the 
body burst in the flame; and the contents of it 
being thrown upon her eyes and lips, caused 
such swelling and inflammation that it was 
several weeks before she recovered. 

Frederick. 

The stupid old woman was rightly served. 

Mrs. B. 

The dislike many people feel to spiders lies, 
I am persuaded, rather in prejudice than in any 
conviction of their disposition to hurt us. For 
my own part, I have been so long in the habit 
of admiring the skill, the patience, and the per¬ 
severing industry of these so generally-hated little 





creatures, that a spider is to me an attractive 
rather than a repulsive object, 

Frederick. 

How should you like to eat spiders, Emma ? 

Emma. 

O Frederick! how can vou mention such a 



thing! 

Frederick. 

Some people eat them, I assure you. Labil- 
lardiere tells us, that there is a spider in New 
Caledonia, nearly an inch long, which the in¬ 
habitants collect in large quantities, roast over 
the fire, and eat with great relish. Some of the 
inhabitants of South Africa also reckon spiders 
among their dainties. 

Emma. 

Spiders may be very suitable dainties for the 
inhabitants of New Caledonia and the savage 
Bushmen. They will eat anything. 

Mr. B. 



Spiders have been considered dainties, Emma, 
even in civilized life, and among literary persons. 
That female of singular talents, the celebrated 
Anna Maria Schurrman, used to eat them like 
nuts ) which she said they very much resembled 





in taste: and Reaumur tells us of another young; 
lady who could never resist the temptation of 
such a bon bon as a garden-spider. Lalande, the 
French astronomer, was also very fond of their 
flavour; and Rosel mentions a German who 
used to spread them on his bread like butter.— 
But enough of spider-eating; we will turn to 
some more agreeable subject. 

The apparatus for spinning, with which spiders 
are furnished, is a curious part of their mechanism. 
It consists of four or six little tubercles at the end 
of the abdomen, each of which contains a multi¬ 
tude of tubes, so numerous and so exquisitely fine, 
that a space, often not bigger than the point of a 
pin, is furnished, according to Reaumur, with a 
thousand of them. From each of these minute 
tubes the spider emits a glutinous silky thread 
of inconceivable tenuity; the threads from them 
all uniting together, form that which they employ 
employ in weaving their webs. 

Emma. 

Then each spider’s thread that is visible to us 
is formed of four or perhaps six thousand others! 

Mr. B. 

Yes: even those of the smallest species, some 




of which, you know, are so fine as to be almost 
imperceptible to us, are in reality ropes, composed 
of at least four thousand strands. 

Emma. 

And these complicated threads are not after 
all so thick as a hair! 

Mr. B. 

So thick as a hair! my dear;—a thousand of 
them would scarcely form one so thick as a hair of 
your head. 

The manner in which spiders employ this thread 
is, as I just now said, a sufficient proof that they 
possess superior instinctive intelligence. 

When the spider begins to form his web, (I 
speak now more particularly of the garden-spider, 
JEpeira diadema , because we have one before 
us,) he first fixes the end of his thread by apply¬ 
ing his spinners to anything that happens to be 
convenient; and the thread lengthening in pro¬ 
portion as he recedes from the point where he 
had fixed it, he fastens it again to something on 
the opposite side. In this way he forms the 
margin of his net, which he takes special care 
to render strong by gluing several threads together. 
The construction of this margin appears to be the 
most important and difficult part of the operation; 




when tMs is done, he quickly crosses the area he 
has described by the radiating lines, which give 
it a wheel-like appearance. These radii, which 
are generally about twenty in number, being 
finished, he goes to the centre, and tests their 
strength by pulling eaph thread with his feet; 
if any appear weak or defective, he breaks them, 
and supplies their place with others. 

Having thus formed the foundation of his web, 
he attaches around the centre five or six small 
concentric circles; and then, at greater distances, 
four or five larger ones, which are intended 
to serve as a sort of temporary scaffolding, 
and also to keep the radii properly stretched, 
while he glues to them the viscid threads intended 
to ensnare his victims. This done, he runs again 
to the centre, bites away the small cotton-like 
tuft that unites the radii, and in the circular 
opening thus produced, takes his station, and 
watches for his prey. 

Dryden beautifully describes his proceedings 

when his web is finished. 
The treacherous spider, when his nets are spread. 
Deep ambushed in his silent den doth lie, 

And feels, far off, the trembling of his thread, 

Whose filmy cord should bind the struggling fly; 




Then, if at last he find him fast beset, 

He issues forth, and runs along his loom, 

Eager to seize the captive in his net, \ 

And drag the little wretch in triumph home.” 

Frederick. 

The formation of his net must be a long process. 

Mr. B. 

No, it is not; indeed it cannot be; for when 
it is not destroyed by any accident, such as some 
great unmanageable insect perversely entangling 
itself in the threads, he renews it partially, if not 
entirely, every twenty-four hours; for the circles 
more especially designed to catch his prey, are 
composed of a peculiarly viscid material, which, 
when long exposed to the air, dries and loses its 
adhesive property. 

Emma. 

But I have seen what appeared to me the same 
cobweb hanging for months in the same place. 

Mr. B. 

Very likely you have. The web of the house- 
spider, which is a gauze-like substance, formed 
to entrap the claws of flies in its fine meshes, 
will serve, with occasional repairs, for a con* 
siderable period. 



Do you know, I expect a continuance of fine 
weather from the appearance of this spider’s web. 

Mrs. B. 

What do you judge from ? 

Mr. B. 

From the great length of the main threads which 
support it. Spiders are very dependant for success 
on weather; the web of many an one is destroyed 
by a storm of wind or a heavy shower, and as 
long as rain or wind continues, they must fast, 
though it be for weeks or months, for the web 
cannot be renewed. Availing themselves, there¬ 
fore, of every possible precaution against the 
destruction of their webs, it has been observed 
that if the weather is about to be changeable, wet, 
or stormy, they make the foundation threads short, 
that they may not so easily be broken; but that 
if fine settled weather be on the point of commenc¬ 
ing, they venture to extend their toils by making 
these threads long. 

Frederick. 

I have often wondered how they spin those 
long threads; I mean how they contrive to get 
across with the first thread; for the point to 
which they ultimately fasten it is often a very 





long way, sometimes a yard or more, from that 
where they begun. There is nothing for them 
to walk on, and they cannot fly. 

Mr. B. 

Spiders appear to have the power of darting 
their threads before them in any direction, and 
to almost any extent they please. Having fixed 
the thread, therefore, at one point, they throw 
it out towards some other, where they design to 
fasten it, judging, we know not how, of its 
position and distance. 

Mrs. B. 

And they have, I believe, the power of throw¬ 
ing out their threads not only in a horizontal 
direction, but up into the air; in fact, of forming 
for themselves air-balloons of them. 

Mr. B. 

Yes: the invention of Montgolfier has always 
been in the possession of spiders. Naturalists, 
who have paid attention to this interesting fact, 
have observed that when a spider purposes 
an aerial excursion, he throws himself upon 
his back, darts out a long thread, and vaults 
from the place on which he stood. As he ascends, 
he pulls in his thread with his fore-feet, so as to 



form it into a ball of flake, and thus increasing his 
surface without increasing his gravity, he some¬ 
times soars away to a prodigous elevation. Dr. 
Martin Lister, a curious observer of these little 
animals, states that he once saw from the top 
of the highest steeple of York Minster, numbers 
of these webs floating still very high above him. 

Frederick. 

Is this faculty common to all spiders, or only 
to some particular species ? 

Mr. B. 

It does not appear to be confined to any one 
species. It is only, however, in their young 
or half-grown state that they have been observed 
to make these aeronautical expeditions; from 
whence we may infer that when full grown, their 
bodies are too large and heavy. 

The fleecy webs thus spun in the air, as well 
as those we sometimes see in fine autumnal morn¬ 
ings spread in such profusion over fields of stubble, 
form what in our country are called gossamer webs; 
the French call them fils de la merge; and the 
Germans, from their constantly appearing in the 
autumn, der jliegender sommer , the flying or 
departing summer. 




Emma. 

I suppose the material of which spiders form 
their threads is of the same nature as the silk spun 
by the silk-worm and other caterpillars. 

Mr. B. 

Yes, it is; and a Frenchman once speculated 
on the possibility of employing it to a useful 
purpose. He contrived to manufacture from the 
bags or cones which the female spins for the 
reception of her eggs, (and which you have often 
seen, I dare say, like little yellow silken balls 
safely fixed in secure corners,) a pair of silk 
stockings and mittens. But he found it would be 
impossible to carry on the manufacture to any 
extent; for the work of twelve spiders is not equal 
to more than that of one silk-worm; and their 
ferocity is so great that they cannot be prevented 
from destroying one another. 

Mrs. B. 

I have heard that the spiders of the Bermudas 
spin webs between trees forty or fifty feet distant, 
and strong enough to ensnare a bird as large 
as a thrush. 

Mr. B. 

Where large insects are to be caught, there the 





spider is instructed to form his web of corresponding 
size and strength. Sir G. Staunton informs 
us, that in the forests of Java also, spiders 1 webs 
are to be found so remarkably thick and tena¬ 
cious as to require a sharp knife to divide them. 

Emma. 

I think, you said, Papa, that there are some 
spiders that do not spin webs. 

Mr. B. 

Many species do not; but devote their silken 
stores chiefly to the service of their young. All 
spiders lay their eggs carefully in silken cones; 
for they are tender, affectionate parents. 

Among those spiders that do not spin webs, 
two species are especially deserving to be placed 
among our primitive mechanics;—the trap-door 
spiders, as they are called, and the fabricators 
of the diving-bell . 

Emma. 

I was wishing to ask you, Papa, about the 
den and the trap-door you mentioned. 

Mr. B. 

There are, I believe, two or three varieties 
of the trap-door spider. That whose habitation 
I have seen, (Cteniza ecementaria 9 ) is found in 





the south of France. This sagacious little creature 
first digs by means of his strong jaws, a cylindrical 
gallery or tunnel, upwards of two feet long and 
about half an inch in diameter; selecting for 
the purpose a steep bank of bare clay from which 
the rain will readily run off. Having excavated 
the tunnel, he lines it throughout with a web of 
fine silk; this serves the double purpose of 
strengthening the walls and of forming such a 
communication with the door as may inform him 
of what is passing above. 

Emma. 

The door is what I am particularly curious to 
hear about.—You do not mean a real door, Papa, 
do you ? 

Mr. B. 

Yes, my dear: I do. This spider forms a real 
door; not of wood, but of several layers of clay or 
chalk cemented together with silk. When finished 
it is as perfectly circular as if it were traced with 
compasses; and fits so nicely into the aperture of 
the cell, that the casual observer cannot distinguish 
it from the surrounding earth. But the most 
marvellous circumstance is, that the clever little 
architect actually fixes it to the entrance by a hinge 





of silk; and as if acquainted with mechanical 
laws, invariably places the hinge at the highest 
side of the opening; so that the door, which is 
easily pushed open by^the spider from within, 
shuts again by its own weight; and there being a 
little edge, or groove, to receive it, it closes with 
such precision, that, as I said, it seems to make 
one surface with the earth in which it is formed. 
If any attempt be made from without to open it, 
the courageous little inhabitant, warned by the 
vibration of the threads which extend to the bottom 
of the gallery, runs to it with all speed, and 
fastening: his claws on one side to the door and on 
the other to the walls of his den, pulls with all 
his might against the intruder. 

Thus skilfully formed and defended, this curious 
subterrean furnishes a secure habitation for the 
spider and his family; which usually consists of 
his mate and twenty or thirty young ones. At 
night, they prowl about in search of prey; chiefly 
beetles; which they drag into their den and devour. 
The bottom of it is usually strewed with the 
remains of various coleopterous insects. 

The fabricator of the diving belly (Argyroneta 
aquatica) is a water-spider, and one of the largest 
of the spider-race. 





Emma. 

That I suppose was the insect you alluded to as 
the first employer of a diving-bell. But how is it 
possible, Papa, for the little creature to form such 
a machine and to lower it into the water ? 

Mr. B. 

She does not first form it and then lower it into 
the water, Emma: I did not mean to say that. 
She does what would puzzle our engineers far 
more; she actually builds it in the water. She 
first forms the frame-work of loose threads attached, 
to the leaves of aquatic plants. These threads 
she varnishes over with a glutinous transparent 
secretion resembling liquid glass, and so elastic as 
to admit of considerable distension and contraction. 
Having thus formed the bell , she spreads over her 
body a pellicle of the same secretion; and ascending 
to the surface, obtains, though in what manner is 
not exactly known, a bubble of air. Surrounded 
with this aerial mantle, which to the spectator 
seems formed of brilliant quicksilver, she plunges 
to the bottom, and introduces the bubble of air 
beneath the roof of her habitation. This process 
she repeats ten or twelve times; till, in about a 
quarter of an hour, having conveyed as much 





air as suffices to extend her dwelling to its pro¬ 
posed dimensions, she finds herself in possession 
of a little aerial edifice formed in the very midst 
of the waters. Here she dwells : and from this 
curious chamber, which is about the size and 
shape of half a pigeon’s egg, she issues forth, 
searching sometimes the water, and sometimes 
the land, for prey; which, when obtained, is 
transported to this submarine mansion, and de¬ 
voured at leisure. Both sexes form these lodgings ; 
but early in the spring, the male quits his own 
and seeks that of the female, which being enlarged 
by a bubble of air that he brought with him, 
becomes the abode of the happy pair, and a safe 
depository for their eggs; treasures which are pack¬ 
ed up in a silken cocoon in one corner of their dwell¬ 
ing and carefully watched over by the mother. 
This spider, in some countries, is not uncommon 
in stagnant pools. 

But the dews of evening are beginning to fall, 
and to remind us that it is time to return to 
the house. 

I shall henceforth look at spiders with feelings 
very different from those I used to have, said 
Emma, as they arose to leave the arbour# I see 




now the force and beauty of Solomon’s remark, 
that u though little upon earth, they are exceed¬ 
ing wise.” 

And exceedingly useful too, rejoined Mr. B. 
We owe much to their exertions, and ought to 
regard them with complacency and pleasure. 


EIGHTH EVENING. 


Pleasure to be derived from an acquaintance with 
nature*—Food of insects.—Vegetable-eating insects; — 
select different plants and different parts of plants;— 
wisdom of this arrangement.—Insects confer benefits 
on vegetation.—The chief cultivators of uninhabited 
lands.—Useful in the fertilization of plants; in 
pruning them of their redundant fruit and leaves; 
in loosening the soil around their roots.—The agency 
of insects valuable in forests.—Locusts; their oc¬ 
casional but fearful ravages.—Mrs. Howitt’s description 
of the locust; that of the prophet Joel.—Locusts 
serviceable within their native boundaries; frequently 
visit Africa; sometimes lay waste parts of Europe; 
have appeared in our own island : Dr. Clarke’s account 
of the different kinds of locusts.—Termites: great 
injuries sometimes sustained from their voracity; 
benefits they confer on tropical countries; manner of 
their operations.—Timber-eating insects in our own 
country.—Benefits conferred by insects on literature 
and the arts : galls; oak-apples; rose-willow; bede- 
guar ; lac ; kermes; cochineal; Influence of insects 
on commerce : silk; honey; wax ; Chinese wax.—. 
Insects once used in medicine.—Some useful in the 
present day : Ant lint; cantharides.—Insects employed 
as food: various larvae.—Locusts extensively eaten 





in Africa and the East.—Termites, a favourite dish 
with the Hottentots and Hindoos.—Galls used as 
dessert.—Lemonade prepared from ants.—The acid of 
ants caused by the nature of their food. 

I have been thinking Papa, said Emma, in 
connection with our late agreeable evenings, how 
much enjoyment we lose through ignorance. I 
never before this vacation looked at insects with 
any thing like interest; now it is always a real 
treat to me to watch one. 

Mr. B. 

Your remark, my dear Emma, is just. The 
volume of nature presents in varied profusion 
much that is curious, instructive, and beautiful; 
but we must learn to read it before we can derive 
the pleasure it is designed to yield. When, 
however, we are even in a small degree acquainted 
with its contents, we find that objects apparently 
the most trivial, a mere stone, a humble weed, or 
a busy insect, will often suggest trains of delightful 
contemplation, and afford us enjoyment of the 
purest kind. On the ground of pleasure, 
therefore, apart from the immediate benefit 
connected with a knowledge of the structure and 
properties of the objects by which we are surround- 





ed, I advise all young persons to cultivate an 
intimate and practical acquaintance with the works 
of God. As our favorite poet says :— 

“Tis sweet to muse upon His skill display’d 
(Infinite skill) in all that he has made! 

To trace, in Nature’s most minute design, 

The signature and stamp of powder divine.” 

We are now to enter a little more at large on 
the general history of insects. First, we shall 
consider them in relation to other parts of nature, 
and especially to ourselves; and then we shall 
take a glance at their habitations and social 
economy, which will include their modes of defence, 
their luminous and musical powers, and various 
other interesting and amusing particulars. 

Emma. 

Really, Papa, you make me smile : I should 
almost think you were speaking of rational beings, 

Mr. B. 

Several of the facts to which I shall refer will 
convince you that, as I have before remarked, the 
instinctive sagacity displayed by many insects 
more nearly resembles reason than that of most 
other irrational animals. Solomon, whose deep 
and comprehensive mind grasped the whole crea« 





tion, and accurately discerned the place and proper¬ 
ties of all its various parts, repeatedly sends us, 
you know, to the insect world to learn wisdom . 

As it is chiefly in providing for themselves or 
their young that this sagacity is manifested, we 
will look, in the first place, at their food; in their 
pursuit of which, their relation to other departments 
of nature, and to ourselves, is principally exhibited. 

Frederick. 

I know by experience that they are sagacious 
enough about food. I am generally quite puzzled 
to feed those I find, if I do not happen to discover 
them on the identical substance they prefer. 
Many will die of starvation rather than eat what 
I give them. 

Emma. 

What is become of the glow-worms you brought 
home the other night, Frederick ? 

Frederick. 

I rather think they are all dead. They would 
not touch any of the leaves I offered them. 

Mr. B. 

You should have given them some snails or 
slugs. Carnivorous insects will not eat leaves 
any more than carnivorous beasts. 




In the choice of food, insects have a much more 
extensive variety open to them than any other class 
of animals, perhaps I might say, than all other 
classes together; for their immense strength and 
aodlitv, combined with the minuteness of their 
forms, enable them to force their way into almost 
every substance, and to feast at pleasure on things 
inaccessible to all besides. The whole organic 
creation may indeed be considered as a stupendous 
table, at which the insect world sit down as guests, 
and at which no viand is left untasted by some 
or other of the numerous company. 

Some of these guests are exclusively vegetable 
eaters; others confine themselves to animal sub¬ 
stances ; while a very great number live at one 
period of their existence on animal, and at another, 
on vegetable diet; and a few will eat anything 
that comes in their way. Among all these classes, 
some prefer their food in a dead, and even in a 
decayed state; and others will eat it only when 
alive or fresh: some can live only on one kind 
of plant or animal, while others, and that a 
large proportion of species, are able to subsist on 
several kinds. 

Of phytiphagous insects, or those that feed on 




vegetables, very few, even of those that are not 
confined to one particular species, eat of all plants 
indiscriminately, or of all the parts of the same 
plant. Those that live under ground, among 
which are the larvae of several of the beetle tribes, 
find the roots most accessible, as well as most 
to their taste. Others prefer the stem and branches. 
A third division, more open in their depredations, 
live exclusively on the leaves. A fourth select 
the flowers. While a fifth choose the more sub¬ 
stantial fruit or seed. Even among each of these 
a still further selection takes place. 

Of those that feed on the roots, or stem and 
branches, some, as the bee-hawkmoth, (Sphinx 
epiformis,) eat only the rind; others, only the 
inner bark and alburnum; a third, and still larger 
party, consisting of the stag-beetle tribes, (Luca - 
nidcBy) some of the weevils, the capricorn-beetles, 
(CerambycidcBy) and the only larva among the 
Lepidoptera that feeds on wood, the great goat- 
moth, (hence called Cossus ligniperda,) with 
a few others, penetrate even into the solid heart 
of the tree. 

Of those that choose the leaves, the various 
kinds of Aphides , or plant-lice, take only the juice 





from the veins; the mining caterpillars only the 
parenchyma or fleshy substance between the 
cuticles: I dare say you have often seen the 
leaves ofthe bramble, the dandelion, and other 
plants, thus excavated, and looking almost as if 
they had been tatooed: many of the leaf-rolling 
caterpillars take only the lower surface of the leaf; 
while the more rapacious larvae of most lepidop- 
terous insects greedilv devour it entire. 

Among those whose more delicate taste leads 
them to prefer the flowers, some, as the mullein 
moth, select the petals ; others, as the rose-chafers, 
&c., the farina in a perfect state; bees also collect 
the farma to make of it bee-bread for themselves 
and their young; and a still greater number, among 
which are wasps and flies, with most butterflies 
and moths, revel on the honey in the nectaries. I 
need not add that from this bees elaborate their 
delicious stores. 

Mrs. B. 

We cannot fail to admire the wise economy 
that thus regulates the preferences of insects. 
Had all eaten exclusively of the roots, of the stem 
and branches, of the leaves or of the flowers, 
the whole vegetable world would perhaps have 





perished, or some at least of its productions would 
have become extinct in consequence of their 
depredations; but by this arrangement so little 
of each part is usually taken, that while the wants 
of insects are fully satisfied, vegetation, generally 
speaking, sustains no injury. 

Mr. B. 

So far from sustaining injury, it is greatly indebt¬ 
ed to insects for its fertility and beauty. Though 
they are sometimes permitted to exceed the 
boundary which the God of nature has assigned to 
them, and to prove to us what they could do 
if a watchful providence did not control their 
operations, they deserve to be regarded, in general, 
as the conservators of the vegetable creation. 
They dig and prune where human foot has never 
trod, and preserve the virgin soil of many an 
unexplored region in a state of rich and verdant 
cultivation, adapted to supply the wants of the 
numerous wild animals that range over it, and 
ready for the hand of man when he arrives to 
take possession. 

Even in cultivated lands, the benefits insects 
confer, greatly exceed in amount the injuries of 
which we sometimes so loudly complain. 





In many plants, particularly those of the Linnean 
classes, Monoecia , Dioecia and Polygamia , in 
which the stamens are in one blossom and the 
pistils in another, their agency in conveying the 
fertilizing pollen from the anthers to the germen, 
is essential to the production of fruit. 

Insects that attack our embryo fruits, or crop 
the luxuriant foliage of the trees, do us much 
service both by preventing an over growth of 
fruit, and by rendering its leafy covering more 
pervious to the air and sun. They do 
indeed just what the skilful gardener often 
does when he thins the fruit and prunes the 
leaves, that the tree may not be exhausted by too 
large a crop, and that the fruit which is left may 
be of finer quality. 

Even the burrowing insects, though when too 
numerous they do injury to our meadows and 
corn-fields, are of essential service by loosening the 
soil, and thereby enabling the young roots to 
shoot with greater ease. 

The agency of insects is also veiy important in 
forests, especially in the immense ones of tropical 
climates. When symptoms of decay among the 
veteran trees become apparent, their united service 





are soon employed to prevent them from long 
remaining a nuisance. A host of caterpillars 
take possession of the branches and consume the 
foliage. Another host of insects bore through the 
rind and pierce and destroy the inner bark; and 
a third, and still more numerous class, finally 
accomplish the dissolution of the dying trees by 
reducing the decayed wood to dust. 

Thus we find that, on the one hand, insects 
promote the strength and fruitfulness of plants, 
and on the other, that they present a constant 
and effectual check both to a too great exuberance 
of vegetation, and to an accumulation of decaying 
vegetable matter. They seem, indeed, to have it 
in charge to preserve the face of nature in youthful 
beauty and vigour. 

There are two species of phytiphagous insects 
which in this connection deserve especial notice: 
—Locusts and Termites. 

Frederick. 

I have always regarded locusts as among the 
most dreadful of invaders; as vieing indeed 
with human desolators in their ability to ravage 
and destroy. 





Mr. B. 

And such is their character when, commissioned 
by God, they leave their native boundaries. No 
visitation is more to be feared than 

-—-« A pitchy cloud 

Of locusts warping on the eastern wind.” 

The swarms in which they fly often measure 
several hundred fathoms in diameter and many 
miles in extent, so that in passing they thoroughly 
hide the sun, and produce a darkness as great 
as that of a total eclipse. These swarms are 
sometimes so vast as to be three or four hours in 
flying over a particular spot. Southey strikingly 
describes their progress in his Thalaba :— 

“ Onward they came, a dark, continuous cloud 
Of congregated myriads numberless, 

The rushing of whose wings was as the sound 
Of a broad river, headlong in its course, 

Plung’d from a mountain summit; or the roar 
Of a wild ocean in the autumn storm, 

Shattering its billows on a shore of rocks.” 

And when they arrive on cultivated lands it is 
awful to see the face of the country which but an 
hour before was smiling and joyous, entirely 
covered as with a living veil, extending as far as 






the eye can reach, and perhaps for many hundreds 
of miles beyond:—the trees bending beneath the 
weight of their destroyers, and every atom of 
verdure rapidly disappearing. And then to hear 
the noise of their powerful jaws, like the sound 
of a flame of fire driven by the wind, as meadows, 
corn-fields, vineyards, orchards, and forests, are 
rapidly falling victims to their irresistible sway. 

Nor is this all. The effluvium from the dead 
bodies of these countless myriads fills the air with 
impurity, and often produces pestilence of a fear¬ 
ful character. Mr. Barrow, speaking of their 
ravages in the southern part of Africa, towards the 
close of the last century, says that an area of 
nearly two thousand square miles was literally 
covered by them; and that when driven into 
the sea by the wind, they formed upon the shore 
for fifty miles a bank three or four feet high, 
the scent of which was so powerful as to be smelt, 
when the wind lay in the right direction, at a 
distance of a hundred and fifty miles. 

Emma. 

You recal to my recollection Mrs. Howitt's 
description of the locust. 





Mr. B. 

Will you favour us by reciting it ? 

Emma. 

" The locust is fierce, and strong, and grim, 

And an armed man is afraid of him; 

He comes like a winged shape of dread, 

With his shielded back and his armed head, 

And his double wings, for hasty flight, 

And a keen, unwearying appetite. 

He comes with famine and fear along, 

An army a million million strong ; 

The Goth, and the Vandal, and dwarfish Hun, 
With their swarming people, wild and dun, 
Brought not the dread that the locust brings, 
When is heard the rush of their myriad wings. 

From the deserts of burning sand they speed, 
Where the lions roam and the serpents breed ; 

Far over the sea, away, away ! 

And they darken the sun at noon of day ; 

Like Eden the land before they find, 

But they leave it a desolate waste behind. 

The peasant grows pale when he sees them come, 
And standeth before them weak and dumb ; 

For they come like a raging fire in power, 

And eat up a harvest in half an hour ; 

And the trees are bare, and the land is brown, 

As if trampled and trod by an army down. 





There is terror in every monarch's eye, 

When he hears that this terrible foe is nigh ; 

For he knows that the might of an armed host 
Cannot drive the spoiler from out his coast, 

That terror and famine his land await, 

And from north to south 'twill be desolate. 

Thus the ravening locust is strong and grim, 

And what were an armed man to him ? 

Fire turneth him not, nor sea prevents, 

He is stronger by far than the elements ! 

The broad green earth is his prostrate prey, 

And he darkens the sun at noon of day !” 

Mr. B. 

Thank you. One or two lines put me in mind of 
a passage in the second chapter of Joel, in which 
the arrival and devastations of locusts are graphi¬ 
cally and sublimely described :—“ A day of 
darkness and of gloominess, a day of clouds and 
of thick darkness, as the morning spread upon 
the mountains; a great people and a strong :— 
a fire devoureth before them, and behind them 
a flame burnetii: the land is as the garden of 
Eden before them; and behind them a desolate 
wilderness; yea, and nothing shall escape them.” 

When locusts visit a country, they usually stay 
from three to seven years, and generally reduce it 
to a state of entire desolation. 





Yet even locusts, fearful as are their visits to 
inhabited countries, do immense good within 
their native boundaries. Their home is in the 
deserts of Tartary and Arabia ; and many a 
region in these and the neighbouring untrodden 
wastes, which but for them would be permanent¬ 
ly choked up by shrubs, and hard, half-withered 
and unpalatable plants and grasses, being from 
time to time by their means disincumbered of its 
burden, and thoroughly laid bare, continually re¬ 
appears clothed in a young and flowery herbage, 
whose juicy shoots afford delicious food for the 
numerous animals that tenant those solitary plains. 

Frederick. 

I suppose the countries adjacent to Arabia and 
Tartary are most exposed to the ravages of locusts. 

Mr. B. 

Yes. The first mention we have of them is, 
as you will remember, in connection with Egypt.* 
Africa has always been peculiarly liable to these 
visitations; and from Africa locusts have not 
unfrequently passed over into different parts of 
Europe. Italy, Spain, France, Germany, and 
particularly Transylvania, have been repeatedly 
visited by these invaders. 

* Exodus x, 12—14. 





More than once they have appeared even in 
our island. In the year 1673 some alighted in 
Wales; and in the year 1748 considerable alarm 
was excited by swarms falling in various parts 
of England, particularly in the neighbourhood of 
London. Happily, however, they soon perished 
without propagating. These swarms were pro¬ 
bably stragglers from the host which, the year 
before, had laid waste Transylvania and the 
neighbouring provinces. 

Dr. Clarke, in his travels in Tartary, describes 
three species of locusts :—the gryllus tartarius 
and the gryllus migratorius , whose visit to the 
steppes of Tartary he witnessed, and the gryllus 
viridissimus found near the Don and the Khuban. 
The gryllus tartarius is a very large species; and 
from its usually appearing before the gryllus 
migratorius, is called the herald or messenger. 
The gryllus migratorius, or migratory locust, 
has red legs, and its inferior wings have, he 
informs us, a lively red colour, which gives a bright 
fiery appearance to the animal when fluttering 
in the sun’s rays. 

Termites, or white ants, are another class of 
insects endowed with peculiar powers either for 
good or evil. 





Mrs. B. 

Linn6 called them the great calamity of both 
the Indies. 

Mr. B. 

He did; but I think from taking a partial 
view of them; from looking at the mischief 
rather than at the good they do. Immense 
damage is often sustained, it is true, when they 
find their way into houses and stores, from their 
insatiable and undistinguishing voracity. Nothing 
less hard than glass or metal escapes the attacks of 
their omniverous jaws. In the course of one 
night, they frequently destroy all the furniture, 
and indeed all the timber-work of a spacious 
apartment, together with books, papers, clothes, 
or whatever other valuables it may contain. But 
still, these mischiefs, serious as indeed they some¬ 
times are, are of small amount, it appears to me, 
in comparison with the benefits which termites 
confer on the inhabitants of tropical countries by 
the effectual check they continually impose on 
the accumulation of decaved vegetable substances. 

In our climate, where the process of vegetation 
and of decay is comparatively slow, it is difficult 
properly to appreciate their agency; but in the 




countries of the torrid zone, where perhaps many 
thousands of acres are covered by one interminable 
forest, and where but for such insects as the 
termites, the dying and the dead would con¬ 
tinually lie in gloomy contrast with the living, 
the verdant characters of youth, and beauty every 
where apparent sufficiently bespeak the value of 
their labours. In a few months, a mighty mass, 
inferior only to iron in hardness, and which, left 
to the mere action of the elements, would perhaps 
have encumbered the ground for a century, is 
mouldered into dust; and young trees, full of 
life and vigour, spring up in its place. Mr. 
Smeathman assures us that the termites will not 
only in a few weeks destroy and carry away the 
trunks of large trees, without leaving a particle 
behind, but that in places where there has been 
a populous town, if the inhabitants, as is often 
the case in India, have chosen to abandon it, in 
the course of two or three years, not even a post 
will be visible, but its site will be occupied by 
a large wood. 

One peculiarity in these insects is that they 
usually carry on their operations by sap and 
mine; so that when, by eating the interior 





substance, they have entirely spoiled any wooden 
fabric, a chair or table for example, it still ex¬ 
ternally appears untouched. They rarely attack 
the outside of any material, until they have 
concealed it and their operations by a coating 

of clay. 

* 

Emma. 

I am glad we have no white ants here; it 
must be extremely vexatious to find valuable 
articles so suddenly and imperceptibly destroyed. 

Mr. B. 

I am glad too, Emma, that we have not. It 
would be a sad thing for us, who require ten 
times more timber than our climate can produce, 
to be subject to such marauders. There are 
however insects, even in our country, that are 
employed in performing, though much more 
gradually, the same services and the same mischiefs 
that the termites perform in India. We have 
several species to whom the oak beam of an 
ancient edifice that has weathered the storms 
of several hundreds of years, or a chair that 
has been baking in the chimney corner for half 
a century, or a book that has been mouldering 
as long on the shelf, are morsels far more delicious 





than the finest living productions of the garden 
or the forest. You have often, I dare say, seen 
furniture 

“ By worms voracious eaten through and through 

but perhaps you did not know that these per¬ 
forations are the work of a little timber-boring 
beetle, (Anobium,) whose larvae flourish and 
fatten on this dry fare. Our houses, our timber- 
yards, our bridges, and even our piers erected 
in salt water, not unfrequently suffer injury from 
similar destroyers. 

But let us take another view of vegetable-eating 
insects; for we shall have but an imperfect idea 
of their character and importance, if we confine 
ourselves to an agricultural view of them, and 
enquire only how they affect our orchards and 
gardens, our corn-fields and forests. Besides 
their agricultural services, they render us others 
of incalculable value; services even more sensibly 
felt and much more readily acknowledged. You 
will at once perceive that I refer to the various 
productions for which we are indebted to them. 

You are too well acquainted with the two 
families which man has taken under his own im- 





mediate protection and management, bees and silk¬ 
worms, to make it necessary to dwell on the 
importance of their labours; but perhaps you are 
not aware that there are various other little manu¬ 
factures of this class to whom literature and the 
arts each owe a large debt of gratitude. 

Emma, 

Literature! Papa. 

Mr. B. 

Yes, Emma; literature . You could not be 
furnished either with ink to write a letter, or wax 
to seal it, without the aid of insects. I do not 
mean to say that they make either the ink or the 
wax; but they produce some of the ingredients 
most essential in the composition of these articles. 

Ink is made by a decoction of blue galls with 
copperas and other materials. These galls are 
excrescences found on the leaves of a shrubby 
species of oak, ( Quercus infectoria,) very common 
throughout Asia Minor, and are produced by a 
little hymenopterous insect belonging to the genus 
Cynips . The little fly punctures the surface 
of the leaf and deposits an egg; around which, 
in the course of a few hours, a fleshy chamber 
arises, that provides both food and shelter for 




her future offspring, and becomes what is called 
a gall or galUnut. 

Thus through the intervention of a little insect, 
a tree, valueless in itself, yields to the merchants 
of Aleppo one of their chief articles of commerce. 
These galls are much used by dyers as well as 
by manufacturers of ink, and large quantities of 
them are every year imported. From their im¬ 
portance to dyers, the oak on which they are 
found receives its name of Quercus infectoria 
or the Dyer's oak. 

Frederick. 

I suppose what we call oak-apples are produced 
in the same manner. 

Mr. B. 

Yes; there are many varieties of these ex¬ 
crescences ; some resembling beautiful fruits; 
others curious flowers; in short, they assume 
a hundred different forms; but they all owe 
their existence to insect labourers. 

Mrs. B. 

Some of them puzzled the old botanists not a 
little. The curious coronet of leaves, for instance, 
resembling in arrangement the petals of a rose, 
by which the twigs of the common willow are 




sometimes surrounded, and which is formed by 
the deposition of the minute eggs of these little 
creatures, is figured by Gerard as belonging to 
a distinct species of tree, which he terms the rose - 
willow , and which he describes as not only making 
Ci a gallant shew, but also yielding a most cooling 
air in the heat of summer, being set up in houses 
for the decking of the same.” 

Mr. B. 

Your mention of the rose-willow , my dear, 
reminds me of another production of the same 
kind, to which the naturalists of former days 
attributed medicinal properties of an equally 
wonderful character. 

You must have often noticed, Emma, in your 
botanical researches, a tuft of little reddish moss¬ 
like fibres totally different from the leaves, growing 
round the twigs of the sweet-briar and the common 
wild-rose. 

Emma. 

Yes, I have; and I have wondered what it 
could be. 

Mr. B. 

This curious and beautiful excrescence is the 
bedeguar , once so famed for its styptic properties. 





Its medicinal renown is, I believe, now at an end; 
but all must still admire it as an elegant provision 
which a little insect of this order, the Cynips 
rosce , has made, by puncturing the twig, for the 
shelter and maintenance of its young. 

Emma. 

It appears to me that by the study of insects, 
I shall gain also much information on my fa¬ 
vourite study of botany. 

Mr. B. 

The various branches of natural history, my 
love, are all so intimately connected, that it is 
impossible to pursue any one far, without also 
directing attention to others. To become a 
geologist, for example, it is necessary to study 
not only mineralogy, but also anatomy, botany, 
and chemistry; and to be a good botanist, you 
must be also, in some degree at least, an ento¬ 
mologist. 

Emma. 

You make me feel, Papa, how very ignorant 
I am. 

Mr. B. 

Well, Emma; you know the adage, u A sense 
of ignorance is the first step to knowledge;”— 





but we are wandering from our subject;—I hope 
I have satisfactorily proved your obligations with 
regard to ink . 

Emma. 

O yes. I am quite ready to acknowledge them— 
but sealing-wax, Papa? 

Mr. B. 

A principal ingredient in sealing-wax is a resin 
called lac. This resin is produced by a species 
of coccus, (Coccus lacca;) the female insects 
haying fixed themselves to a twig of the banian, 
the pepel, or other tree on which they feed, a 
pellucid and glutinous substance begins to exude 
from the margins of the body, and in time, the 
whole insect is covered with a cell of this substance, 
which, when hardened by exposure to the air, 
becomes lac . Under these cells the mother insects 
lay their eggs; w hie h, aftera certain period, are 
hatched, and the young ones eat their way out. 

Lac is not only used in the composition of 
sealing-wax, but it is extensively employed in 
the manufacture of hats. A varnish, highly 
esteemed by artists, is also made from it; and 
when collected before the larvae have found their 
way out, it yields moreover an excellent scarlet 




dye. So variously useful is this insect secretion, 
that from one to two million pounds weight 
of it are annually imported into Great Britain * 

Kermes is another drug valuable to the dyer. 
We cannot call it the 'production of an insect, for 
it is the insect itself. These insects, also a species 
of coccus, are found on a kind of oak (Quercus 
coccifera,) growing in the Levant, which, like 
that from which gall-nuts are gathered, is valuable 
only on account of its insect inhabitants. 

Kermes are supposed to have furnished the 
material with which the curtains of the Taber¬ 
nacle manufactured in the wilderness, were dyed 
red. From the same insects also the crimson 
of the Greeks and Romans was produced, and 
the imperishable red of the Flemish tapestries. 

The coccus cacti , or cochineal, now supplies 
us with our most valuable scarlet dye. This 
beautiful little creature obtains its colour by feeding 
on the delicate red juice of a particular kind of 
cactuSf or Indian fig, called in Mexico, where 
alone the insect is produced in any quantity, Nopal . 
So valuable is this insect, that the East India 
Company have offered a reward of ,£6000 to any 
one who shall introduce it into India. The 




quantity of cochineal exported yearly from America 
is said to be worth more than half a million of 
money, 

Frederick, 

Really, Father, I could not have supposed that 
the commerce of the world could be so largely 
indebted to any one insect, 

Mr. B. 

There are some to which it is under still greater 
obligations. The silk-worm adds many millions 
a year to the commercial wealth of nations; 
and wax and honey are far from being unim¬ 
portant articles of commerce. 

Frederick. 

Does silk produce many millions a year ? 

Mr. B. 

Yes, many millions. Were silk no longer 
produced, the commerce of many parts of the 
world would stand still, and the people would 
starve. In several large provinces in the south 
of Europe, silk is the staple article of cultivation, 
and the prospect of a deficient crop causes as 
great an alarm as a scanty harvest of grain does 
among us. Many thousands of persons are em¬ 
ployed in its first production and transportation ; 




and many hundreds of thousands more in its final 
manufacture ; so that silk may be said to be one 
of the most important wheels that give circulation 
to national wealth. 

Emma. 

The productions of bees have been valued from 
the earliest times. 

Mr. B. 

Bees have furnished us not only with choice 
productions but with some of our choicest and 
* most expressive words. A poet remarkable for 
the sweetness and harmony of his language, is 
said to be a “bee;” notes peculiarly soft and 
pleasing to the ear are said to be “ mellifluous 
and if we would express in one word that which 
is pure and true, we call it, in allusion to honey 
drawn clear from the comb, sincere (sine cera.) 

Frederick. 

Honey is not much used now, is it ? 

 

It is not so much used in our own country 
as it used to be. In the good old times, house¬ 
wives made from it their mead or metheglin , 
which might vie with the productions of the 
vine in warmer climates. In the present day, 







we are so amply supplied with sugar that we 
can nearly dispense with with it; but in many 
inland parts of Europe, where sugar is scarce 
and dear, it is still a necessary article of 
domestic consumption; and the care of bees is 
in the same proportion a lucrative branch of 
agriculture. Some of the peasants in the Ukraine 
have four or five-hundred bee-hives, and make 
more profit of their honey than of com. In 
Spain, this luscious production is still more 
assiduously cultivated. A single parish priest 
has been known to possess five thousand hives. 

Wax is a substance almost more important 
than honev. Our climate indeed is not so warm 



as to render tallow candles intolerable, as they 
are in some more southern countries; still, even 
with us, wax candles are deemed indispensable 
to the comfort of the great; wax is consequently, 
for the manufacture of candles, as well as for 
many other purposes, an important production to 
us, and large quantities are imported from different 
countries. Some idea of the value of wax as an 
article of commerce may be formed from the fact 
that the quantity of it exported from the island of 
Cuba alone, in one year, was worth more than a 
hundred and thirty thousand pounds. 



Emma. 



Do any insects besides bees produce wax ? 

Mr. B. 

A kind called Pe-la is produced in China by 
a species of coccus, which is said, when mixed 
with oil, to form a wax little inferior to that 
made by bees, but the wax used in Europe and 
America is all the produce of bees, principally 
of the common hive-bee; though in America, 
a quantity by no means trifling, is obtained from 
various wild species. 

The wax of China is in high repute among 
Chinese physicians for its numerous wonderful 
qualities; among others, for that of giving assu¬ 
rance to public speakers. We are told that the 
orators of that country eat an ounce of it, pre¬ 
vious to commencing their harangues, to prevent 
srvoonings. 

Frederick. 

An excellent idea! 

Mr. B. 

We laugh at the nostrums of China-men, but 
we should remember that many in high repute 
in our own country a hundred years ago, were 
scarcely less absurd: what should we now think 






of powder of silk-worm as a remedy for vertigo 
and convulsions; of earwigs to strengthen the 
nerves; of fly-water for disorders in the eyes; of 
lady-birds for the colic and measles; or of the 
cock-chafer for the bite of a mad-dog and the 
plague ? 

Emma. 

You are not in earnest, Papa ! 

Mr. B. 

Yes, my love, I assure you, I am. Such 
remedies, ridiculous as they may now seem, were 
really in fashion in England a century ago, and 
empirics highly extolled their virtues. 

Speaking of insects in relation to the healing 
art, we must not forget that there are two or 
three to which we are under real obligations. 
Among them I may mention a species of ant, 
which collects from the bombyx or silk-cotton 
tree, a kind of lint, said to be invaluable as a 
styptic; and the Cantharides or blister-flies; 
almost any article could be better spared from 
the materia medica than these flies. Their bodies 
contain a peculiar acrid matter which when 
applied to the skin, causes inflammation and 
raises blisters. The application, it is true, is 




painful; but it often effectually counteracts inter¬ 
nal inflammatory action. 

Mrs. B. 

I believe the living insect if held long in the 
hand, will produce the same effect as the can- 
tharideous plaster. 

Mr. B. 

Yes, it will; indeed, even the vapour from 
these beetles has a powerful effect on the human 
frame. Instances have been known of persons 
being attacked with violent fever from having 
fallen asleep under trees inhabited by them. 
An effect similar to that of cantharides, though 
in a much less degree, is said to be produced 
by the may-bug or cock-chafer. 

Emma. 

Where are cantharides found ? 

Mr. B. 

They are natives of almost every country of 
Europe, particularly those towards the south. 
Now and then, though very rarely, they are 
seen in this country. In the summer of 1837, 

they appeared, I am told, near Colchester, in 



great numbers, and stripped all the ash-trees of 
their leaves. 


211 


Haying taken a glance at vegetable-eating 
insects in their various relations to agriculture, to 
literature and the arts, to commerce and to 
medicine, we will now look at a few as furnishing 
us with food. 

Emma. 

With food, Papa! 

Mr. B. 

Yes: several are eaten as a mere matter of 
taste. Many people in our country, you know, 
are fond of cheese-maggots, and I have heard 
of such a dainty dish as a maggot-pie, though 
I cannot say that I ever saw one. In the West 
Indies some epicures greatly admire the grub of 
the palm-weevil; and in many countries the 
larvae of the larger capricorn beetles are esteem¬ 
ed delicacies. The Cossus of Pliny, which he 
tells us the Roman epicures fattened with flour, 
was probably a species of these larvae. 

Passing fry these, however, I must again 
introduce to you the two families which I have 
already mentioned, as so powerful for good or 
evil—locusts and termites—as making some a- 
mends for the ravages of which they are occa- 



sionally guilty, by the supply of food they furnish 
to various nations. 

Frederick. 

Were not locusts considered clean insects and 
permitted as food by the Jewish law? 

Mr. B. 

Yes: and they were much eaten in Judea by 
those who had no flocks or herds on -which to 
feed. It is mentioned, you know, as a proof of 
the simple style of life adopted by John the 
Baptist, that “his meat was locusts and wild 
honey.—Insects alone supplied his table in the 
wilderness. 

In the present day, the nomade tribes of the 
desert, as well as the poor inhabitants of Arab 
villages, collect locusts in great quantities both 
for their own eating, and for sale; for these 
insects are highly relished by people of all classes 
in that part of the world. They are prepared 
pretty much as shrimps and lobsters are prepared 
with us, by being thrown alive into boiling water, 
mixed with a good quantity of salt. After boiling 
for a short time, they are taken out, the head, 
wings, and legs are picked off, and the trunks 
laid to drv in the sun. 


When thoroughly dried, they are stowed away 
in sacks, ready either for exportation to the States 
of Barbary and other neighbouring countries, 
where in this state they find speedy sale, or for 
home consumption. They are frequently eaten 
either alone, or mixed with butter, and spread on 
cakes of bread; but sometimes they are stewed 
or fried in butter. Mr. Moffat, who has eaten 
them in Africa, says that on the whole they 
are not bad food. When well fed they are almost 
as good as shrimps. 

Mrs. B. 

They appear to be a favourite article of food 
with most of the African nations as well as with 
the Arabs. I have read that the poor Hottentots, 
so far from regarding the arrival of a swarm as 
a calamity, are highly rejoiced at it, and that 
they soon exhibit, in their improved looks, the 
good effects of their improved fare. 

Mr. B. 

Mr. Moffat tells us, that when locusts abound, 
the natives become quite fat, and would even 
reward any old lady that said she had coaxed 
them to alight within reach of the inhabitants. 
He adds, speaking of a visitation of them which 





he witnessed, “ We could not feel otherwise than 
thankful for this visitation on account of the poor; 
many hundreds of families, but for the locusts, 
must have perished with hunger.” 

Termites are also eaten in large quantities by 
some of the African nations; among the Hotten¬ 
tots especially they are esteemed an important 
article of food. After swarming, shoals of them 
fall into the rivers, when they are skimmed off 
in calabashes, and parched in iron pots over a 
gentle fire, in the same manner as we roast coffee. 
In this state they are eaten without any addition, 
and considered great delicacies. Mr. Smeathman, 
to whom we are indebted for nearly all that is 
known of these insects, says that he has eaten 
them dressed in this way, and thought them 
delicate, nourishing, and wholesome: sweeter 
than the grub of the palm-weevil, but not so 
fat and cloying. Their taste, he tells us, resembles 
sugared cream or sweet almond paste. 

Mrs. B. 

White ants are eaten in the East Indies also, 
I believe. 


Mr. B. 


Yes they are. The female ant in particular 




is supposed by the Hindoos to contain highly 
nutritive qualities, and is eaten not only as a 
delicacy but as a restorative in cases of debility. 

Well, I have now onlv to add a nice dessert 
and an agreeable beverage, and you will, I think, 
acknowledge that mv bill of insect fare is 
complete. 

Emma. 

I suppose you mean honey and mead. 

Mr. B. 

You may add them, if you please, but I intended 

something nicer still. 



I told you that some of the galls resemble in 
form certain fruits ; this resemblance sometimes 
holds in flavour also, particularly in those that 
are found on some kinds of sage; they are very 
juicy like apples, and are highly esteemed in 
the Levant for their aromatic and acid flavour. 
Prepared with sugar, they form a considerable 
article of commerce from Scio to Constantinople, 
and will present us with a dessert of an inviting 
character. 

And now for a beverage.—You like lemonade ? 

Emma. 

Lemonade ! Papa. 





Mr. B. 

Yes, Emma, lemonade , or perhaps I ought rather 
to call this insect beverage, formicade . If in 
biting a gooseberry or a plum, you have ever 
happened to bite an ant concealed in it, you have 
perceived that it had an agreeable acid taste. Ants 
contain this acid so abundantly, that chemists 
procure it from them in considerable quantities, 
either by distillation or infusion in water. I shall 
not send you, however, to the chemists, but to 
the ants themselves. You have only to place 
a piece of sugar for a few minutes in a nest of 
yellow ants, which may often be met with in 
woods, and it will absorb such a quantity of 
their acid, which is a perfect substitute for that 
of lemon, as will make you a nice glass of your 
favourite beverage. 

Frederick. 

The acid procured from ants is called by the 
chemists, formic acid, is it not ? 

Mr. B. 

It used to be so called; but it is now ascer¬ 
tained to be not a distinct kind of acid, but 
a mixture of the acetic and malic . 

The copious secretion of acid in ants may 





perhaps be accounted for from the saccharine 
nature of their food. They live very principally 
on that sweet fluid ejected by aphides, which 
when left to dry upon the leaves of plants, is 
commonly called honey dew . Wherever aphides 
abound, there you will be sure to find ants very 
busy, caressing the little insects to part with 
their luscious stores, and eagerly lapping up 
the excrementitious sweet the moment it is yielded. 

In connection with the habitations and social 
economy of insects, I shall tell you something 
more about ants and aphides; but it is too late 
this evening. 

Frederick. 

You have said nothing yet, Father, about 
carnivorous insects. 

Mr. B. 

I have not forgotten them; but I have now 
purposely confined myself to the phytiphagi , 
that I may introduce the carnivorous tribes to 
more advantage another time. They are equally 
valuable servants; but their work is of a different 
and less pleasing character. 


NINTH EVENING. 


Carnivorous insects.—Those that feed on living prey: 
cicindelse, carabi, water-beetles, lady-birds; mantis, 
earwigs, nepidae, notonectidse; ant-lion, dragon-fly, lace- 
flies ; ichneumon flies, sand-wasps, ants.—Those that 
feed on dead or decayed substances: larvae of various 
insects; silphae, necrophori.—Those that suck the blood 
of other animals: parasitic insects, fleas, gnats, and 
mosquitoes.—Means employed to prevent the too great 
increase of insects: rains, frosts, inundations; insect- 
catching plants; animals that consume insects; bats, 
birds, fishes, &c.—Calculations on the probable number 
of unknown species. 


At our last entomological soiree, I promised 
you some account of carnivorous insects ; a division 
equally numerous and useful with the phytiphagous 
tribes, though less generally observed and admired. 
If it will be agreeable to you, I shall be happy 
now to give an hour to the subject. 

Frederick. 

We were hoping you would indulge us this 
evening. 

Carnivorous insects may be chiefly divided into 
three classes:—those that prey on living insects; 





those that feed on dead and decaying; animal 
matter; and those that suck the blood of other 
animals, many of which are parasitic. 

The first class, those that feed on insects, are 
very largely distributed throughout the various 
orders; indeed, I do not recollect one in which 
some may not be pointed out as occasionally at 
least employing themselves in the destruction of 
their neighbours. 

Emma, 

There are none, surely, among my little favour¬ 
ites the Lepidoptera ? 

Mr. B. 

Yes; even the Lepidoptera , under some circum¬ 
stances will eat each other. Reaumur once put 
together into a glass vessel twenty caterpillars 
of the same species, and though he supplied them 
abundantly with their natural food, they never¬ 
theless devoured one another, till only one survived. 

Emma. 

What little cannibals! 

Mr. B. 

Several others of the phytiphagi occasionally 
exhibit similar cannibal propensities. Locusts, 
grass-hoppers, and crickets have also been known 




to devour their congeners, especially when in 
confinement, in the most savage manner. But 
carnivorous insects, properly so called, are those 
that feed constantly and exclusively upon animal 
food: some, only when larvae; others, through¬ 
out their whole existence. 

Three families of the Coleoptera , the Cicindel( 2 > 
the Carabi , and the Dytisci are thus exclusively 
carnivorous. 

Frederick. 

To look at the cicindelce with their elegant forms 
and splendid attire, one would not suspect them 
of sanguinary propensities. 

Mr. B. 

Like some other beings they conceal beneath 
a gay exterior very unlovely propensities. We 
have six or seven varieties of them in England; 
the most common is the cicindela campestris , 
which, when captured, usually ejects a volatile 
fluid, having a powerful scent of roses. The 
eicindelae frequent dry places exposed to the sun, 
run very fast, and employ their wings with more 
activity than most other beetles. Their larvae 
form for themselves habitations in the earth, 
something like those of the ant-lion, which they 





nearly resemble in cunning and ferocity. The 
name cicindela means a brilliant insect. 

The carabi are a very numerous family, but, 
generally speaking, far less beautiful and interesting 
than the cicindelse. Like their counterparts, tigers 
and lions and other carnivorous beasts, they roam 
by night in search of prey, and lurk during 
the day in any convenient retreat; generally, 
beneath stones or in crevices, or under loose earth 
or the bark of trees. They run, as I have before 
told you, with immense speed ; and many of them, 
when caught, resent the affront by ejecting a dark 
fetid liquid that stains the skin and often pro¬ 
duces pain and irritation. 

Emma. 

Most of the specimens in the cabinet are sombre 
looking creatures. Their very appearance would 
lead one to suspect their character. 

Mr. B. 

The majority are sufficiently uninviting; but 
some of them are pretty, the little sun-bugs or 
sun-shiners, for example; and especially the calo- 
somae; thev indeed derive their name from their 
elegance and splendour. 

The calosomce differ from the generality of 




the carabi in their habits as well as in their 
appearance. They live upon trees, both in their 
larva and perfect states; and by preying upon 
caterpillars which would otherwise denude the 
branches of their foliage, render us valuable 
services. The calosoma inquisitor is occasionally 
so numerous that a friend of mine beat down, 
at one time, as many as sixty specimens from the 
oaks in Epping Forest. The calosoma syco- 
phanta is equally numerous and useful in the 
forests of France and Germany; it feeds upon 
the different inseets that inhabit and injure oaks; 
especially upon the amusing but mischievous pro¬ 
cessionary caterpillars, living while larvae in their 
nests, and like true sycophants , ruining the society 
in which they repose. 

The dytisci , or water-beetles, are to be found 
both in their larva and mature states, in the 
tranquil waters of lakes, marshes, and ponds. 
They too are extremely voracious, and seize and 
devour without mercy all insects that come within 
their reach. 

Emma. 



I remember you pointed out how admirably 
their legs are adapted for swimming. 





Mr. B. 

If you look at the specimens in the cabinet, you 
will perceive that there are many varieties of size 
among them; some are at least an inch and a 
half long; others are scarcely larger than fleas. 
Like the carabi they shed, when handled, a most 
nauseous odour. 

Among our insect-eating Coleoptera , I must 
not omit to mention those general little favourites, 
ladv-birds. I told vou that thev alwavs lav 
their eggs among aphides. Their larvae feed 
entirely upon them, and thus prevent manv 
a plant from withering under the exhaustion 
which these minute phlebotomists, when too nu¬ 
merous, occasion. If we could multiply lady¬ 
birds at will, we might perhaps entirely extirpate 
the fly , that species of aphis which so often 
disappoints the hopes of the hop-grower. 

Emma. 

Are any of the Orthoptera carnivorous ? 

Mr. B. 

Some of the cursorial Orthoptera are. The 
mantis, profanely called the praying mantis, and 
said to be so benign a creature, that, “ if a childe 
aske the way to such a place, she will stretch out 
one of her feet and shew him the right way, and 




seldome or never misse,” is an exceedingly ferocious 
insect. Having little muscular energy, and yet 
requiring a large supply of food, he makes up 
in stratagem and patience what he wants in power. 
When he has once set his eyes upon a victim, he 
rarely loses sight of it, but will patiently sit, even 
though it may be hours before it come within 
his reach, in an attitude prepared for seizing it. 

It is the attitude thus assumed, which has 
obtained for this sanguinary little creature, among 
the ignorant, such universal veneration. In every 
country where it is known it has some religious 
epithet: the French call it le precheur ; the Turks 
say it points to Mecca. 

Another of the cursorial Orthoptera , the earwig, 
though it may delicately appear to prefer a juicy 
pear or plum, or the brilliant petals of a carnation 
or a dahlia, is strongly suspected of cannibal 
propensities: but as it flies and feeds by night, it 
is difficult to prove the fact. It is certain that it 
eats dead insects; there is no plunderer against 
whom the collector need to be more on his guard. 

Emma. 

Do earwigs ever creep into the ear, and penetrate 
to the brain ? 



Mr. B. 

O no! Even supposing one to enter the ear, 
the structure of that organ, and the secretion of 
wax, which appears intended as a defence from all 
intruders, prevent the possibility of its penetrating 
into the head. 

Among the Hemiptera many species of bugs 
live on the juices of insects. The Nepidco are 
extremely voracious; and the little boat-flies, or 
water-boatmen as some call them, (No toned idee ) 
which may often be observed lying on their backs 
on the surface of the water, stretched in an 
attitude of apparent listlessness, are not behind 
their larger and more powerful neighbours either 
in cunning or in cruelty. The moment a luckless 
wanderer passes within their reach, it is darted 
upon and quickly carried off. 

I need not repeat what I have already told you 
respecting some of the carnivorous Neuroptera. 
The names which have been given them, such as 
ant-lion and dragon-fly , sufficiently bespeak their 
habits; to them I may add the beautiful little 
lace-flies, (Hemerobii) whose larvae make so 
great a carnage among aphides that Reaumur 
called them “Lions des pucerons,” Lions of the 
aphides . 

 


Two families of the Hymenoptera, ichneumon- 
flies and sand-wasps, have also been already 
noticed. Both, though in the mature state nectar¬ 
sipping flies, are formidable enemies of many 
species of insects, from the numbers they destroy 
as food for their young. You remember in what 
manner many a caterpillar is murdered by the 
insidious ichneumons, and with what wondrous 
skill and labour sand-wasps bury insects alive. 
When you know that in Europe alone, there are 
at least thirteen hundred species of ichneumon- 
flies, each of which attacks the larva of a different 
insect; and that the varieties of sand-wasps and 
other fossorial Hymenoptera that provide living 
prey for their young, are also very numerous, 
vou will easilv believe that these two families 
effectually check the increase of many of the 
most prolific species of vegetable-eating insects. 

Frederick. 

Are not ants carnivorous ? 

Mr. B. 

Not exclusively; though they certainly deserve 
a place among carnivorous insects. The mantis, 
fierce as it is, knows its fate, and exhibits signs 
of terror, when brought into contact with them. 
Uniting in bodies of sufficient numbers and 





strength, they kill and cany off to their nests 
the largest and most formidable insects, and even 
a single ant may sometimes be seen dragging 
a victim many times bigger than itself. Under 
favourable circumstances, ants will even attack 
animals of larger size. They are also expert 
dissectors; if you wish for the skeleton of a bird, 
a mouse, or any other small quadruped, you have 
on ly to place the body in a box sufficiently per¬ 
forated with holes to admit them, and leave it near 
a nest, and they will prepare it for you most skilfully. 

We are told of one species of ant that is even 
daring enough to attack mankind. M. Malouet 
observed in the forests of Guiana a gigantic 
hillock fifteen or twenty feet high, and broad in 
proportion, towering in the midst of a spacious 
savannah, which he was informed was the dwelling 
of the largest species of black ant; a species so 
numerous and sanguinary, that any person ven¬ 
turing within the precincts of a society of these 
ants is almost sure of being devoured. If thev 
choose to establish themselves in any neighbour¬ 
hood, the colonists, it is said, are obliged to 
abandon it, unless they have sufficient force to 
form a regular siege. Nothing but fire and 
cannon-shot can resist them. 




Mrs. B. 

In a country teeming as Guiana so remarkably 
does, with a gigantic insect population, such an 
enemy seems needful to lessen their numbers, and 
repress their depredations. 

Frederick. 

I do not envy the inhabitants either their 
luxuriant climate or their brilliant insects, if they 
must also have such compatriots. 

Mr. B. 

My second class of carnivorous insects may 
be truly and properly called scavengers . In¬ 
cessantly employed in their disgusting but ne¬ 
cessary toils, millions of these labourers, with 
appetites and skill proportioned to the work they 
have to do, clear away the various dead bodies 
and other offensive substances that are daily falling 
to the earth ; so that, of the multitudes of insects, 
birds, and other animals that are continually dying, 
it is seldom that even one meets the eye. 

Among these, some species of larva hold, as 
you already know, a conspicuous place; but 
there are some perfect insects, to which we are 
under equal, and perhaps even greater, obli¬ 
gations. I refer to various beetles of the Silpha 



genus, whose olfactory powers are so keen, that like 
vultures they scent from afar the carrion upon which 
they feed, and will come soaring along, sweeping 
with the velocity of a bee around the cadaverous 
substance which has attracted them. The offen¬ 
sive appearance of the Silphce , properly so called, 
and the fetid odour they exhale, sufficiently in¬ 
dicate their manner of living, and their habitation. 
Both they and their larvae are chiefly to be found 
in dunghills, and in putrescent animal matter, 
and they offer nothing beyond the fact of their 
services to engage our attention. But one 
family of this genus, the necrophori , are extremely 
interesting. They receive their name from their 
peculiar habit of burying the carcases they find 
to serve as food for their young. No sooner is 
the decaying state of any small animal percep¬ 
tible, than they flock to the place, and so skilfully 
hollow out the earth underneath the body, that 
in the course of a few hours, it is entirely buried. 

Mr. Kirbv gives a most interesting account 
from an eye-witness, of the habits of one species 
of these insects, (Necrophorus vespillo.) Four 
of these little creatures were put into a glass vessel 
half-filled with earth, and properly secured. 





Upon the surface of the earth two frogs were 
laid. In less than twelve hours one of the frogs 
was interred by two of the beetles ; the other two 
ran about the whole day, as if measuring the 
dimensions of the remaining corpse, which on 
the third day was also found buried. A dead 
linnet was then introduced, upon which a pair 
of beetles were soon engaged. They began their 
operations by pushing out the earth from under 
the body, so as to form a cavity for its reception ; 
occasionally dragging at the feathers from below 
to pull it into its grave. The bird was lifted up, 
turned, trodden upon, and pulled down, till the 
next morning it was an inch and a half under 
the ground; in the evening, it had sunk half an 
inch lower; and in another day, the work was 
completed, and the bird covered. Other small 
animals continued to be added, which were all, 
sooner or later, buried; and the result of the 
experiment was, that in fifty days these four beetles 
had interred in the very small space allotted to 
them, twelve carcases:—four frogs, three small 
birds, two fishes, one mole, and two grasshoppers, 
besides the entrails of a fish, and part of the lungs 
of an ox. In another experiment, a single beetle 




buried a mole fortv times its own weight and bulk 



in two davs. 



Emma. 

I suppose they do not bury them deep. 

Mr. B. 

Generally at the depth of ten or twelve inches. 
Having: excavated the soil till the body has sunk to 
about that depth, they cover it over with the re¬ 
moved earth. 

What is still more remarkable, if the spot on 
which the carcase happens to be found is not 
suitable to the purpose of interment, four or five 
of them appear to consult together, and getting 
beneath the body, are seen to convey it slowly 
to some other that is better adapted. 

Emma. 

Wliat astonishing; instinct! I do not wonder, 
Papa, at your speaking so highly of the sagacity 
of insects. 

Mr. B. 

It is not merely by interring dead animals that 
these diligent little creatures render us service. 
Some species inter also manure, and that in such 
considerable quantities, as in some parts greatly 
to enrich and fertilize the earth. In the interest- 





ing narrative published by the u Scottish Mission 
of Enquiry respecting the Jews/* Dr. Keith and 
his companions state that they remarked in the 
desert between Egypt and Palestine numerous 
green patches on the sand, which they found to 
be produced by the industry of these small 
but indefatigable operators. “ The beetle,” they 
add, “with amazing labour drags the camel’s 
dung into its hole in the sand, and thus a fruitful 
soil is formed ready to receive the seed of plants. 
To this small insect we probably owe the greater 
part of the verdure of the wilderness.” 

Thus while phytiphagous insects dig and prune, 
these beetles manure the soil of many a desert 
region. 

We will now turn to the third class of car¬ 
nivorous insects, those that suck the blood of other 
animals. They are so universally voted a nuisance, 
that I can scarcely expect you to be of a different 
opinion. 

Mrs. B. 

Many apparent nuisances are indirectly of great 
utility. 

Mr. B. 

True, my dear: and an impartial view even 






of these insects will prove the correctness of your 
remark. Some of them are negatively useful \ lice 
and fleas, for example, by enforcing the necessity 
of attention to cleanliness ; their timely bites so 
continually remind animals of putting their fur 
or feathers in order, as to prevent the diseases 
which negligence would probably occasion ; 
and others of them, there is no doubt, render 
positive services by the continual application of 
their lancets to vigorous animals, thus averting 
the mischiefs which might arise from plethora, 
or too great fulness of blood. 

Frederick. 

But man does not require such services from 
them. 

Mr. B. 

Perhaps not : and man may, if he please, be 
free from their intrusion. It is his own fault 
if he is seriously affected by any of them. 

Frederick. 

Can he free himself from the torment of gnats 
and mosquitoes ? Our old poet Spencer says : — 

“ Their murmuring small trumpets sounden wide, 
Whiles in the air their clustering army flies ; 

Ne man nor beast may rest or take repose 
From their sharp wounds and noyous injuries/' 




Mr. B. 

I am glad you have quoted Spencer; because, 
by comparing his description with our present 
almost entire freedom from these torturing animals, 
you will be more readily convinced that the degree 
of annoyance endured from them in any country 
greatly depends on the degree in which the drain¬ 
age and cultivation of the land is neglected. The 
passage, I recollect, begins, 

“As when a swarm of gnats at even-tide 
Out of the Jennes of Allan doth arise / 7 

Wherever there ar e fens, that is to say, large tracts 
of marshy land and stagnant pools, there these 
insects, whose little egg-boats are launched, and 
whose larvse live in feculent water, are necessarily 
abundant; but in well-tilled lands, like the greater 
part of our own in the present day, where there 
are few waters but running brooks and limpid 
springs, their “ murmuring small trumpets” and 
iC clustering armies” are seldom heard or feared. 
You remember that Dr, Clarke, who was so 
seriously annoyed by them in travelling along 
the frontier of Circassia, states that “ the carriage 
had just been dragged, for many miles together, 
through stagnant pools.” 

 

Emma. 

Poor Dr. Clarke! I remember greatly pitying 
him, when I read that part of his Travels;— 
not daring to open a window in his carriage on 
the most sultry night he ever felt, for fear of the 
swarms that would force their way in; and not¬ 
withstanding all his precautions, having his ears 
and nostrils filled with them, and his lamp ex¬ 
tinguished the moment it was lighted, by the 
prodigious numbers that heaped themselves in 
a cone over the burner. 

Mr. B. 

Little idea can be formed of the torture which 
these insects occasion to the inhabitants of all 
badly-cultivated lands, from the icy regions of 
the frigid zone to the sultry climates of the 
equator; but travellers give us such accounts of 
it as may well make us thankful for our general 
freedom from them. 

We have now taken a glance at the insect world 
in its relation to other parts of nature and to 
ourselves. In connection with it, I have often 
thought with gratitude of the various means that 
the same merciful Providence, which has appointed 
us these tiny servants in such countless multitudes 



and directed their labours to purposes so beneficial, 
has employed to restrain them within due bounds. 
Prolific as they are, they rarely increase beyond 
the extent in which their services are actually 
required. 

Emma. 

Do not gnats ? 

Mr. B. 

No, not even gnats. They are numerous only 
in proportion to the stagnant waters that they are 
required to purify. 

The disposition, so extensively prevalent among 
insects, to destroy each other, is not the least of 
these means; but besides enemies so abundantly 
found among creatures of their own class, it seems 
as if all nature, animate and inanimate, had it 
in charge to prevent their too great multipli¬ 
cation. 

Among their inanimate enemies, I may mention 
continued rain, which greatly diminishes the 
number of caterpillars, and often leaves us nearly 
free from some species for a series of years. Late 

frosts, which destroy great multitudes in their 



larva state; and inundations, by which many that 
undergo their transformations in the earth are 
drowned. 





Various insect-catching plants also destroy vast 
numbers. Mr. Kirby says that it is scarcely 
possible to find a flower of the muscicapce as - 
clepiadce that has not entrapped its victim; and 
in the United States, these flowers sometimes 
closely cover hundreds of acres together. 

The muscicapce , or fly-catching plants, may 
be divided into three classes : —those that entrap 
insects by the irritability of their stamina, which 
when touched, close upon them ; those that ensnare 
them by some viscous secretion; and those that 
entice them by their carrion-like odour. Some 
of these contain water, in which the unwary tres¬ 
passers are drowned; and others poison the eggs 
which by mistake are intrusted to them. 

But the most formidable enemies to insects are 
found in the various departments of the animal 
kingdom. In each class, from the feeble, half- 
vegetating polype to the beasts of prey that roam 
over the desert, we meet with creatures whose 
chief office seems to be the destruction of insects. 

Among the Mammalia , bats hold in this respect 
a conspicuous place. They fly in the twilight, 
just at the time when many moths leave their 
hiding-places and hover round the flowers, and 




multitudes of these nocturnal invaders fall victims 
to them. They also consume many of the night- 
flying beetles, particularly of the weevils which 
attack, sometimes in a merciless manner, the buds 
and flowers of fruit-trees. 

Frederick. 

I dare say then it is owing to bats that the trees 
in the Castle grounds are so remarkably free from 
insects. The gardener was saying the other day 
he could not account for it. 

Mr. B. 

I have no doubt that it is. Orchards planted 
near barns, churches, or any buildings that afford 
shelter to bats, are much less liable to insects than 
those in more open situations. 

Among the insectivorous Mammalia are also 
various sorts of mice, with moles, badgers, hedge¬ 
hogs, squirrels, pigs and foxes. Some of these 
creatures are, it is true, themselves mischievous to 
the productions of the garden and the farm ; but 
others, and especially the squirrel and the hedge¬ 
hog, deserve our unqualified gratitude. 

Birds contribute still more than mammiferous 
animals to the destruction of insects, particularly 
during the breeding season. I have already 





told you what a number of caterpillars a pair of 
sparrows having young ones to maintain, have 
been computed to destroy in a week. All the 
Passeres , that is, birds of the sparrow kind, which 
constitute at least one half of the whole feathered 
creation, devour insects voraciously. When the 
migratory species begin to take their leave of us 
in the autumn, we are soon made sensible of 
their absence by the much greater annoyance we 
experience from flies and other Diptera on which 
they more especially feed. 

The Scansores or climbers too, such as wood¬ 
peckers, wrynecks, cuckoos, and many others, are 
equally devoted to the destruction of insects ; they 
attack the larvm of many large species that har¬ 
bour in the trunks or among the boughs of trees, 
some of which the smaller birds would be unable 
to destroy. The cuckoo consumes various hairy 
caterpillars which few other birds will touch. 

Mrs. B. 

I believe all birds that feed on grain or fruit, 
feed also more or less, on insects. 

Mr. B. 

Yes: indeed I do not know any to which they 
are wholly unacceptable. Owls devour a great 



many of the night-flying beetles, and locusts are 
pursued not only by that species of thrush called 
the locust-bird, but by vultures, kites, and hawks 
which generally follow in their train, and consume 
great numbers. 

When to these enemies we add fishes, serpents, 
frogs, toads, and various other reptiles, particularly 
lizards, all of which feed largely on insects, we 
shall admire the wise economy that has placed an 
effectual barrier to the too great increase of these 
little creatures by making them, when they have 
fulfilled their allotted tasks, subservient to the 
sustenance of so many animals. 

Frederick. 

Really, with such multitudes of enemies, one 
would imagine the insect races must soon be 
wholly extirpated. 

Mr. B. 

Remember how immensely numerous they are. 
The twenty thousand or perhaps more than twenty 
thousand species to be found described in books 
and arranged in cabinets, probably bear but a 
very small proportion to the whole existing number. 
There are ten thousand species, or more than six 
to each plant, in our own country; adopting this 



average as a standard, it has been calculated that 
as there are fifty thousand known species of 
vegetables in the world, there may be, taking 
the varieties of parasitic insects into account, 
three hundred and fifty thousand or perhaps four 
hundred thousand of insects. And not only are 
the species immensely numerous, but the indivi¬ 
duals composing many of them are multitudinous 
beyond all calculation. Look, for example, at 
locusts, whose armies are so vast that, as it has 
been remarked, all human attempts to diminish 
their numbers would appear like attempting to 
drain the ocean by a pump at the ephemeras 
that emerge at certain seasons of the year from 
the rivers of France, by myriads of millions;— 
at most of the numerous species of lepidopterous 
insects, some of which have been observed to fly- 
in clouds, and to descend like snow storms ;—or at 
the varieties of flies, gnats, midges &c., which fill 
the air in every place and at almost every season, 
with their dancing myriads. 

But our hour is expired, and an engagement 
obliges me now to leave you. 

Emma. 

I hope, Papa, you will find at least one more 



leisure hour before I return to school. I have 
heard nothing yet about either the architects or 
the paper-makers. 

Mr. B. 

I intend, if possible, to introduce them to you 
to-morrow evening. 


TENTH EVENING. 


Habitations of insects:—Structures of hive-bees; of humble 
bees ; of carpenter-bees; of mason-bees; upholsterer- 
bees—story connected with their nests.—Character of 
wasps;—their structures; nests of hornets; of paper- 
wasps of Cayenne :—Ant hills; peculiarity in hillocks 
of yellow ants.—Domestic economy of bees, wasps, 
and ants:—care of their young;—slave-dealing ants: 
pastoral ants.—Peculiarities in the instinct of bees : — 
honey; wax ; bee-bread ; propolis, employed to fortify 
and defend their combs;—sentinel-bees; robber-bees.— 
Means of defence of insects:—stings; secretions;— 
bombardier-beetles;—disguises;—noises;—death-watch : 
musical cicada;—grasshoppers.—Luminous insects: — 
scolopendra electrica ; glow-worm ; fire-flies ; lantern- 
flies.—Various superstitions connected with insects :— 
ignes fatui; showers of blood.—Conclusion. 


The last evening J said Emma, as she entered 
the study and cast a disconsolate look at the 
cabinet. I do not mean that I shall be sorry 
to return to school; but I really do very much 
regret that our pleasant evenings are now at 
an end. 

 

Mr. B. 

I regret it too, my love. However, I hope 
that at no very distant period we shall have the 
pleasure of your society permanently; and that 
we shall then have many opportunities of pursuing 
together various branches of natural science, and 
unitedly admiring the minute as well as the vast 
works of God. 

We are this evening to peep at the various 
habitations which some of our insect artisans 
construct. In speaking of insects in their larva 
state, I mentioned a few structures formed during 
that period of their existence. You remember 
the silken tents of the lackey and other cater¬ 
pillars, and the den of the ant-lion. Several other 
fabrics formed during this infant state might have 
been added: the little patchwork coat, for in¬ 
stance, which the grub of the clothes moth 
(Tinea sarcitella) manufactures for itself; and 
the still more remarkable shelters which the 
various species of caddis or case-worms (Pliry - 
gance) form, balanced with such nice regard to 
specific gravity.— 

Frederick. 

They are indeed curious. I have often looked 



at them with wonder when I have picked them 
out of the brook to bait my fishing rod. 

Mr. B. 

Had we time to examine them, they would well 
repay us for our trouble; but we must now 
confine ourselves to perfect insects. 

Among perfect insects, the builders chiefly 
deserving of our attention, with the exception 
of Termites , are bees, wasps, hornets and ants. 
They all belong to the Hymenoptera , and have 
been properly denominated, from their superior 
instincts, principes or chiefs of the insect world. 

Let us look for a few minutes at the varied 
architecture of bees; and first we will pay a visit 
to the hive bees. 

The interior of a bee hive is one of the most 
wonderful things in nature. The most profound 
philosopher, equally with the most incurious 
observer, is struck with astonishment on inspect¬ 
ing it. It is indeed a city in miniature, contain¬ 
ing storehouses, habitations for the citizens, and 
palaces for the sovereign; all constructed of 
materials, and formed on a plan, which the most 
expert artist would endeavour in vain to imitate. 
In all ages, philosophers have devoted their lives 




to an examination of it, and still its construction 
remains a miracle. As our time will not allow 
me to attempt a description of it, I must content 
myself with remarking that the cells of which it 
is composed are built on such exact geometrical 
principles, that if the question had been proposed 
to the most skilful geometrician, how, at the 
smallest expense of space and material, to form 
cells of the greatest capacity and strength, he 
could not have devised a better plan than that 
which bees have adopted. They do not make them 
cylindrical, for that shape would have left number¬ 
less vacuities; nor square or triangular, for then 
a greater quantity of wax would have been re¬ 
quired, and besides that shape would not have 
been adapted to the form of their bodies; but 
hexagonal; by which form, as well as by other 
peculiarities in their structure, they are rendered 
convenient to the inhabitants at the least possible 
expense both of material and of room; and at 
the same time, are much stronger than they could 
have been by any other arrangement. 

Frederick. 

Humble-bees construct honey-combs too; do 
they not ? 





Mr. B. 

Yes: but their structures will scarcely better 
bear comparison with those of the hive-bee than 
the huts of savages will with the houses in Regent’s 
Park. They usually make their nests underground. 

There are several solitary bees that form for 
their young very curious habitations. Some have 
been termed carpenter bees , particularly the apis 
violacea , found in the south of Europe, which 
bores tunnels in a beam, or some other old and 
dry wooden substance, from twelve to fourteen 
inches long, and large enough to admit my finger. 
These tunnels she divides with a kind of mortar 
made of the saw-dust, into ten or twelve com¬ 
partments, lodging in each, before she leaves it, 
an egg, and a quantity of bee-bread. 

Another, the apis muraria , which deserves 
to be called the mason-bee , forms a castle of sand, 
consisting of eight or ten cells, in each of which 
is deposited an egg with its supply of food. 
These castles may be frequently seen on garden 
walls exposed to the sun: to a careless observer 
they appear like lumps of mortar stuck against 
the wall; but if an attempt be made to remove 
them, they will be found to resist the impression 
of the strongest knife. 





A third tribe, appropriately called upholsterers , 
excavate holes in the earth, or sometimes in decayed 
trees; and having lined them with an elegant 
coating of flowers or of leaves, deposit in them 
an egg and the necessary quantity of bee-bread. 
One species, the poppy-bee, lines hers with the 
scarlet petals of the wild poppy. Another, called 
the leaf-cutter-bee, having formed a hole eight 
or ten inches long, fills it with cells formed of 
pieces of rose-leaf, so variously convoluted, and 
the cells fitted one into another with such nice 
precision, that if we did not know who guides 
even the insect to discretion, we should never 
credit their being the work of such an artificer. 
Each cell, when finished, is nearly filled with a 
rose-coloured conserve, composed of honey and 
pollen; an egg is laid in it, and the orifice is 
then closed with three pieces of leaf so exactly 
circular, that a pair of compasses could not define 
their margin with more exactness. 

Reaumur tells an amusing tale in connection 
with these nests. A gardener at Rouen having 
dug up some of them, was exceedingly terrified 
at the appearance of such curious structures. 
Considering them to be undoubtedly produced 





by witchcraft, and to forebode some dreadful 
calamity, he took them to the parish priest, who, 
equally ignorant and superstitious, confirmed his 
apprehensions, and advised him to lose no time 
in proceeding to Paris, and showing them to his 
master. The man, however, who was not de¬ 
ficient in good sense, thought he would first 
take the opinion of Nollet, an eminent naturalist 
in the neighbourhood. Nollet easily explained 
the mysterious appearance; and by pointing out 
the grub, soon dispelled the man’s fears, and spared 
him the expense and trouble of a long journey. 

And now, Emma, for the paper*makers. 

Frederick. 

They are the wasps and hornets. 

Mr. B. 

Yes : races which are to the peaceful industrious 
bees, what lawless banditti lurking in forests are 
to the honest inhabitants of towns and villages. 
They live wholly by rapine; and many a bee, 
as she returns laden with treasure to the hive, 
is waylaid and murdered by these ruthless 
plunderers. 

Mrs. B. 

Blue-bottle flies often share the same fate. 




Mr, B. 

On that account, butchers consider wasps and 
hornets their friends. These fierce marauders 
pounce upon their victim, whether bee or fly, 
and tumbling it to the ground, and separating 
in a trice the soft juicy body from the trunk, 
hurry off with it to their nest, where the delicious 
morsel is soon devoured by themselves and their 
companions. 

But as it is with their buildings rather than 
with their character that we have just now to do, 
I shall not at present dwell longer on their violent 
proceedings, but shall introduce you to their 
habitations, which present them in a far more 
pleasing light. 

“ The wasp, fine architect, surrounds his domes 
With paper foliage, and suspends his combs.” 

I have here a nest of the common species, which 
you may examine for yourself. Its exterior figure, 
you observe, is not unlike a large India-rubber 
bottle, only that the outside surface is neither 
smooth nor uniform in colour. Its want of uni¬ 
formity is owing to the various materials of which 
the paper is made. 

Emma. 

It has two apertures, I perceive \ one, I suppose, 





for ingress, and the other for egress.—How large 
it is! 

Mr. B. 

It is more than a foot in diameter; I will divide 
it in the centre, and show you its internal con¬ 
struction. 

The envelope or outer covering, which is nearly 
an inch in thickness, is not solid, but is formed 
of separate layers of paper with intervals between 
them, so as to render it impervious to moisture. 
The interior contains fifteen or sixteen combs of 
a diameter proportioned to that of the envelope, 
and formed of the same material, all arranged 
in stories. These cells are not like those of bees, 
intended partly for store-houses, but serve merely 
as habitations for themselves and their young. 

Emma. 

Really, the material looks very much like paper; 
where do they get it ? 

Mr. B. 

They make it of the fibres of wood which they 
detach with their powerful jaws from any timber 
that suits their purpose; when they have amassed 
a heap of the filaments, they moisten the whole 
with a few drops of a viscid glue from their 




mouth, and kneading it with their jaws into a 
sort of paste, or papier mache , roll it up into 
a pellet, and fly off with it to the building they 
have in hand. On arriving, they attach it to 
that part at which they were at work, spreading 
it into thin laminae by means of their jaws, tongue, 
and legs. Most vespiaries are formed underground, 
and out of sight, generally at a depth of about 
six inches from the surface; but I once placed 
one which had been dug up in the garden, under 
a glass hive, when the wasps very obligingly 
went on with the process, and gave me an oppor¬ 
tunity of observing it. 

The nest of the hornet, (Vespa Crabro,) the 
fiercest of the Vespa tribe, resembles in its general 
construction that of the common wasp, except 
that it is of a much rougher texture; and is built, 
not in the ground, but either in the holes of old 
walls, or the trunks of decayed trees. 

Mrs. B. 

Curious as are the vespiaries in our own country, 
we have none so elegant and exquisitely fine as 
that of the polistes nidulans , or paper-wasp of 
Cayenne. I once saw one. It was constructed 
of a substance like beautifully-polished white paste- 




board, so solid as to be impervious to the weather. 
In shape it resembled a bell. It was eighteen 
inches long, and had been suspended by its upper 
end to the branch of a tree. The interior was 
fitted up with numerous combs for the convenient 
accommodation of its inhabitants. 

Mr. B. 

We have wasps in our own country that form 
nests nearly of the same shape, only very much 
smaller. Here is one which I once found sus¬ 
pended to the eaves of the summer-house. It is 
scarcely more than an inch in length; and is 
formed, not of polished white card-board, but 
of thin, whitish brown paper. 

Emma. 

How beautiful the large white ones must appear 
suspended among green leaves! 

Frederick. 

Ants too are skilful architects, are they not ? 

Mr. B. 

Many of them erect gigantic edifices, formed of 
various materials, and internally composed of 
numerous apartments of different elevations; but 
as mechanics , ants are not equal in exactness and 
skill to bees and wasps. Some species build with 





earth* blades of grass, chaff, grains of corn, or any 
other substance they may find at hand, availing 
themselves of showers of rain to furnish water,— 
the only cement they possess. Others, the yellow 
ants, for example, frequently establish themselves 
in trees, where they select for building materials 
the finest parcels of rotten wood, mixed with earth 
and the webs of spiders. 

The mention of yellow ants reminds me of one 
peculiarity in their erections which I believe does 
not belong to the elevations of any other species; 
and among them is chiefly confined to those 
that build upon mountains; their hillocks have 
an elongated, regular form, and are constantly 
directed from east to west; so that they serve as 
a sort of compass to the inhabitants of the Alps, 
when they have wandered out of the way during 
the night, or are environed by thick fogs or mists. 
M. Huber says, that he has verified by obser¬ 
vations on thousands of them the facts which 
were communicated to him by the mountaineers. 

In connection with the edifices of ants, we must 
not forget those of the termites. The termites 
belong, as you know, to a different order of 
insects, but are not outdone in architectural skill 
by any of the hymenopterous principes . 





These little creatures, scarcely the fourth of 
an inch in length, erect edifices sometimes twelve 
feet high, and of a proportionable bulk, adorned 
without by numerous pinnacles and turrets, and 
sheltering under an ample dome myriads of vault¬ 
ed apartments of various dimensions, constructed 
of different materials, and designed for different 
purposes:—one in the centre for the mansion of 
the king and queen, who are there immured for 
life; others around for their numerous attendants ; 
some for nurseries; and others for magazines, 
in which stores of food consisting of gums, in¬ 
spissated juices of plants, and particles of wood, 
are laid up. They form, moreover, in different 
directions and at different depths, innumerable 
subterraneous roads ov tunnels, some twelve or 
thirteen inches in diameter, with arches and bridges 
connecting one part with another, not excavated, 
but actually projected with all the skill of an 
engineer. I speak now more particularly of 
the erections of the termes fatalis, a species very 
common on the coast of Africa. When a cluster 
of them, as is often the case, are placed together, 
thev might be taken for an African kraal: thev 
are, in fact, sometimes larger than the huts which 
the natives inhabit. 





The domestic economy of all these insects is 
as remarkable as their talent for architecture. 
Not only bees, but wasps and ants watch over 
their young, keep them in a state of extreme clean¬ 
liness, and feed them with the utmost assiduity. 
Bees supply their grubs with a whitish-coloured 
jelly, prepared on purpose for them, and when 
they cease to eat, carefully cover them up in their 
cells with a waxen lid, and leave them to undergo 
their transformation into pupae. When that is 
accomplished, and the young bees awake to new 
life and issue from the cells in which they had 
reposed, the anxious nurses flock around them, 
lick them clean, supply them with food, and 
having thus finished their preparation for labour, 
and seen them sally forth on their first day’s toil, 
begin to clean out the cradles in which they have 
lain, and to fit them for the reception of a fresh 
set of tenants. 

Wasps and ants feed their larvae from the 
mouth, nearly in the same manner as birds feed 
their young, giving them, from time to time, a 
small quantity of aliment which has been prepared 
and rendered sufficiently digestible in their own 
stomachs. 





But the history of the principes is so full of 
wonders that I scarcely know what to select. 
M. Huber seems to have thought them, and 
especially ants, endowed with all but human in¬ 
tellect. He gives us such a lively account of 
the slave-dealers among these little creatures, of 
their flocks and herds, of their gymnastics and 
wars, and of their actions of kindness towards 
their friends, that we are tempted to ask, can 
this be true of creatures so diminutive and ap¬ 
parently so insignificant? The facts he states 
have, however, been so repeatedly verified by 
subsequent and close observers, that, however 
much we may wonder, no room is left for us 
to disbelieve or doubt. 

Frederick. 

What are the slave-dealers, Father? 

Mr. B. 

The Amazon, or legionary ants, (formica 
rufescens;) they are not found in our country, 
but were observed by M. Huber in the neighbour¬ 
hood of Geneva, where they are not uncommon. 
These ants are both warlike and powerful, but 
unlike the rest of the tribe, far from industrious. 
To relieve themselves therefore from the necessity 





of labour, they attack the dwellings of the ash- 
coloured ants, or negroes , as they may be called, 
and carrying off the larvae and pupae of this in¬ 
dustrious, peaceable, and stingless race, devolve 
upon them the whole care of procuring provisions, 
of nursing and educating their young, and of 
building and defending their habitations. It 
is pleasing to add that these poor little slaves, 
though u forced from home/’ transported to 
a foreign soil, and obliged to labour for strangers, 
experience no oppression, but are treated by their 
kidnappers with such kindness that soon all seem 
to form but one family, and to have but one 
interest. 

After what I have already said of the fondness 
of ants for aphides, you will perhaps guess in 
what their flocks and herds consist. It is a 
well-attested fact, that some species carry their 
taste for these little melliferous insects so far as to 
be at the trouble of transporting them into the 
interior of their habitations, where they watch 
over them with as much care as we employ 
towards our cows and sheep. The yellow ants, 
to which I recommend you to apply for lemonade, 
are remarkable for the instinct they display in 





this particular. These ants are different in their 
habits from most others ; they scarcely ever issue 
from their subterraneous abodes, and are not 
to be met with on the leaves or fruits of trees. 
How then can they subsist? As M. Huber 
pleasantly remarks, “ they are a pastoral people, 
and derive their subsistence chiefly from their 
flocks and herds of aphides; these,” he adds, 
“ are their cattle, cows, or goats; and an ant-hill 
may be considered more or less rich according 
to the number of aphides which it possesses.” 

The preservation of aphides is an object of so 
much interest to these ants, that even their eggs 
receive from them the greatest attention. They 
lick them continually, invest them with a gluten 
which cements them together, and in a word, 
perform for them all that is necessary for their 
preservation and fecundity. Ants are excellent 
herdsmen. 

There are four or five species that thus possess 
aphides; but in a smaller number, and less 
constantly, than the yellow ants. Those that 
climb trees loaded with these insects, and there 
enjoy their sweets, are less careful to cultivate 
them at home. 





Emma. 

Really, Papa, ants are wonderful little creatures. 

Mr. B. 

You would indeed think so, did time allow 
to tell all that is to be told respecting them. 

Frederick. 

I cannot think that ants are more wonderful in 
their instincts and habits than bees:—look at the 
order they observe in swarming; at their attach¬ 
ment to their queen; at the ventilation of their 
hives, and the various means they employ to 
defend them; at the economy with which they 
lay up whatever of honey and bee-bread they 
collect, more than they require for immediate 
use: and especially at the unaccountable fact, 
that however far they may be from home, when 
they return, they fly in a direct line to their nest 
without ever missing the way. 

Mr. B. 

I am not disposed to give to ants the precedence 
of bees, I assure you. Another remarkable display 
of the intellect of bees is exhibited in collecting 
the farina of which they make their bread . On 
whatever flower the bee first alights to gather 
it, she continues gathering from that kind of 





flower alone during the whole excursion, even 
though it may be much scarcer than many others. 
If she begin with a violet, for example, she will 
continue to collect from violets only, till having 
filled with pellets of the ambrosial fare the little 
baskets with which her legs are furnished, she 
returns laden with them to the hive. 

Emma. 

I do not yet quite understand the difference 
between bee-bread and honey. 

Mr. B. 

Honey is a sweet fluid which the bee sucks 
up with her tongue from the nectarium of flowers, 
and also from the sweet juices of fruits. Having 
stored it in the first stomach, or honey-bag, on 
returning home, she either pours it into one 
of the cells prepared for it, or gives it to such 
of her companions as have been at work within. 
From the nectar that furnishes honey is elabo¬ 
rated also the wax of which the cells are formed. 

Bee-bread is made of the pollen of flowers. 
When the bee has filled her honey-bag, she next, 
before returning home, collects, as I have describ¬ 
ed, the farina for bread , the chief food both of 
old and young. On arriving at the hive, having 





eaten herself, and given to her friends engag¬ 
ed in domestic toils, as much of it as they 
require, she carefully stores up what remains 
in some of the empty cells for future use. In 
some combs, a large proportion of the cells are 
filled with this bread; an adequate supply of 
it being indispensable for bees during the winter 
season. If robbed of their honey, treacle will 
do in its place; but no substitute has yet been 
found for this more solid and equally important 
viand. When deprived of it, they become con¬ 
sumptive and die. 

Besides honey and pollen, bees collect another 
substance called propolis . This is a resinous 
gum, gathered from poplars and other trees, 
and is employed to line and strengthen the angles 
of the cells, and to stop up every crevice by 
which cold, wet, or any enemy might enter. 

Frederick. 

Is it not with this substance mixed with wax 
that bees sometimes barricade their hives to 
prevent the entrance of the death’s-head moth ? 

Mr. B. 

Yes: and with it they embalm any intruder 
that they cannot otherwise get rid of. If a slug 





or snail, for instance, have the audacity to enter 
and walk over the comb, they first quickly sting 
him to death, and then, having no means of 
removing so large a bodv, and fearing the noxious 
effluvia arising from corruption, cover it over with 
propolis. 

Emma. 

What astonishing instinct! 

Mr. B. 

This is not the only proof they give of instinct 
in defending their hives; on the principle that 
prevention is better than cure, they place sentinels 
at the entrance to ward off moths and other 
creatures, that might otherwise intrude during 
the night. On a fine moonlight evening, you 
may often see the bees on guard, parading back¬ 
wards and forwards before the opening of the 
hive; if they happen to detect an invader, he 
falls an immediate victim to them just vengeance. 

Not unfrequently they have to defend them¬ 
selves also against their own species. It is no 
uncommon thing in an unfavorable season, when 
flowers are scarce and provisions consequently 
difficult to be obtained, for some bees to get into 
bad habits and endeavour to rob their neighbours. 





A robber-bee may at once be known by his 
shining, darker colour, caused by having lost his 
hair in combats ; and also by his sneaking manner 
of approach ; he does not fly boldly into the hive, 
but generally tries to enter at some unfrequented 
crevice at the back. If robber-bees effect their 
entrance, fierce battles ensue, in which assailants 
and defendants poignard each other with their 
stings in a merciless manner, and many are 
slain. Sometimes the robber-bees prevail, and 
get possession of the coveted stores 5 but if the 
attacked hive have a good, courageous queen, 
they usually fight bravely and defeat the invaders. 

Frederick. 

Bees have no weapon besides their sting, have 
they ? 

Mr. B. 

No: but that is a fearful instrument of 
slaughter: a bee cannot be killed so suddenly, 
except by crushing, as by the sting of another bee. 
Watching an opportunity, the enemy darts its 
sharp point between the scales of the body, and 
the next instant, the defeated bee stretches out its 
quivering wings and expires. 




Mrs, B. 

Ants, I believe, defend themselves chiefly by 
their acid, 

Mr. B. 

Those especially that have no sting. Having 
bitten their victim, they insinuate into the wound 
a small quantity of this secretion which dispatches 
it instantly. In this manner they often kill 
large insects which they are unable to capture 
alive. The" acid effluvia proceeding from the 
myriads in an ant-hill are said to be sufficiently 
powerful to kill a frog. 

Many insects, besides ants, employ noxious 
secretions as a means of defence. One species 
of carabus, occasionally found here, ( Brachini,) 
the Bombardiers , as they are called, employ 
that with which they are furnished in an amusing 
manner. When a Brachinus crepitans is pur¬ 
sued by its great enemy, Calosoma inquisitor , 
it seems at first to have no means of escape, and 
you fancy it is about to submit to its persecutor : 
suddenly, however, a loud explosion is heard, and 
a blue smoke attended by a very disagreeable scent 
is seen to issue from the insect, and effectually 
to stop the progress of the assailant. The bom¬ 
bardier can fire his artillery twenty times in 




succession, if necessary, and by this means gain 
time to effect his escape. 

If we had leisure to enter more at large on the 
modes of defence employed by insects, I could 
name others that would perhaps equally amuse 
you. Several defend themselves from those ene¬ 
mies that will feed only on living prey, by simu¬ 
lating death: many a dung-chafer thus avoids 
the hungry bill of the rook. Others secure 
themselves by assumiug various disguises: some 
caterpillars fix themselves by their hind-legs to 
a branch in such a position that they look exactly 
like a little twig of it, and thus elude the pursuit 
of birds; wood-lice roll themselves up into a 
ball; one species, when thus rolled up, so exact¬ 
ly resemble beads, that Swammerdam’s maid¬ 
servant, finding a number of them in a corner 
of her master’s garden, actually set about string¬ 
ing them for a necklace: but they did not 
carry on the deception quite long enough; and 
beginning to move and to struggle for liberty, 
the poor girl quickly threw down her prize, and 
ran away screaming in the utmost terror. 

Noises are another means of defence to which 
insects have occasional recourse. The death’s head 
moth ; when menaced by the stings of myriads of 





enraged bees, whose property she is plundering, 
knows how effectually to disarm them of their 
fuiy by uttering her shrill, plaintive note. Many 
beetles, as the dung-chafer, carrion-chafer, bury¬ 
ing beetle and others, when taken, show their 
alarm by a shrill sibilapt or creaking sound, 
produced by rubbing the ends of their elytrae 
with the extremity of the abdomen; and bees, 
wasps, and hornets, as is well known, emit various 
tones, as they are influenced by the emotions 
of fear, of anger, or of gladness. 

The number of insects that have the power 
of producing sound is however small: very 
many in every order are perfectly silent. None 
of the Neuroptera are vocal; nor of the Lepi- 
doptera , with the exception of the death's-head 
moth. 

Frederick. 

You mentioned some of the Hemiptera as 
musical. 

Mr. B. 

The most vociferous insects belong to that order. 
Some of the Orthoptera are however sufficiently 
noisy. With the vocalists of both, love is the 
soul of song; animated by its inspiring principle, 
the males of some species of the grasshopper 




and cicada tribes have even rivalled the perform¬ 
ances of man. 

Emma. 

Are not the females musicians too ? 

Mr. B. 

No: they are too diligent so to amuse them¬ 
selves. The saucy Xenarchus says,—¦ 

“ Happy the cicada’s lives, 

Since they all have voiceless wives.” 

The notes of insects and their instruments for 
producing them, from the gentle tap of the con¬ 
cealed little death-watch, whose sound is full of 
alarm to the superstitious, to the loud chorus 
of the melodious harpers, whose tune charmed 
even Athenian ears, are very various. 

The death-watch (Anobium tesselatum,) so 
called because the sound it emits resembles the 
ticking of a watch, produces its terror-inspiring 
call by raising itself upon its hind-legs, and beating 
its head with great agility and force against the 
plane of position. The sound is exactly like 
that produced by the tapping with the finger¬ 
nail upon the table; and when familiarized, the 
insect will answer very readily to the tap of 
the nail, supposing it to be a response from his 
companions. 




Frederick. 

I think I can guess what insects you mean by 
the u melodious harpersfor I recollect to have 
read that a cicada sitting upon a harp was the 
usual emblem of the science of music among 
the Greeks. 

Mr. B. 

You recollect then the story of the two rival 
musicians, Eunomus and Ariston, who were 
engaged in a contest of skill, when a cicada or 
tettix , settling upon the harp of the former, supplied 
the place of a broken string, and secured to him 
the victory. To excel this insect seems to have 
been the highest commendation of a singer ; 
and even the eloquence of Plato was not thought 
to suffer by a comparison with it. The instrument 
of the cicada for producing sound is a species 
of drum, of very complicated structure. 

Emma. 

I suppose we have none of these musical insects. 

Mr. B. 

No: they are inhabitants of much warmer 
latitudes. With the Athenians they were such 
favourites, that they were kept in cages for the 
sake of their song, and golden images of them 
were worn as ornaments. 




Mrs. B. 

The ladies in Spain keep grasshoppers in cages 
at the present day for the pleasure of hearing 
their chirp. 

Mr. B. 

Many persons in different countries have evinced 
a similar taste. The learned Scaliger so admired 
the note of the house-cricket, that he always kept 
some in a box in his study. 

Emma. 

Is these any difference between the note of 
the cricket and the grasshopper ? 

Mr. B. 

The song of the grasshopper is a short chirp, 
regularly interrupted; that of the cricket is long 
and continued. You may frequently hear both 
the field-cricket and the grasshopper in rural 
districts, where their cheerful notes lend additional 
charms to the glowing beauties of a summer’s day. 

There are insects of another kind that add charms 
to the brilliancy of summer, which I must not 
omit to introduce to you. I refer to such as are 
luminous. A small species of millepede (Scolo - 
jienda electrica,) when the sun has shone on 
it during the day, may often be seen shining 
in the evening upon our garden-paths with a 


pale softened light; but our most brilliant insects 
are glow-worms, the females of a species of beetle, 
(Lampyris.) 

Emma. 

The three Frederick put into a glass phial and 
brought home in the carriage the other evening-, 
gave sufficient light to enable me to see the hour 
by my watch. 

Mr. B. 

Our glow-worms are but cottage rush-lights 
compared with the lamps that glitter in tropical 
countries. The light emitted by the fire-fly 
(Lcimpyris noctilucus*) of the West Indies, is so 
brilliant that the smallest print may be read 
by moving one of them along the lines. In St. 
Domingo, we are told, the natives used to employ 
these living lamps, which they called cucuij , in the 
place of candles ; and when they travelled, secured 
sufficient light by tving one to each great toe. 

Southey has beautifully described the first effect 
of their brilliancy on the British visitors of the 
New World:— 

---- u Sorrowing: we behold 

The night come on; but soon did night display 
More wonders than it veil’d; innumerous tribes 
From the wood cover swarm’d, and darkness made 



Their beauties visible : one while they stream’d 
A bright blue radiance upon flowers that close 
Their gorgeous colours from the eye of day; 

Now motionless and dark, eluded search, 
Self-shrouded ; and anon, starring the sky, 

Rose like a shower of fire.” 

The lantern-flies of South America and China 
are hemipterous insects. Their light does not 
proceed, as in fire-flies and glow-worms, from 
luminous tubercles on the thorax and abdomen, 
but from a hollow transparent projection of the 
head. Hence their name of lantern-flies . Some 
species of them, particularly fulgora laternaria* 
excel even fire-flies in brilliancy. Travellers 
describe the trees on the banks of the Meinam, 
which are studded with multitudes of these living 
brilliants, some at rest and others in motion, 
as presenting at night a superlatively splendid 
appearance. One of them is sufficiently bright 
to read a newspaper by. 

Emma. 

Of what use is this light to the insect ? 

Mr. B. 

That is scarcely more satisfactorily ascertained 
than its nature. In some it may be a means of 
defence to distract or alarm their enemies; in 





others, it may serve to guide them either to their 
mates or in the pursuit of prey. It is remarkable 
that most of them appear to possess the power of 
kindling or extinguishing it at pleasure. 

The ignes fatui, commonly called Jack o’lan- 
terns, that used in former days so to alarm 
country people, are now known to be, in many 
cases at least, nothing more than luminous insects. 
One of them, once encountered by some valiant 
yeomen in Cambridgeshire, proved to be a mole 
cricket. 

Emma. 

Why were country people so terrified ? 

Mr. B. 

Various superstitions have been entertained 
respecting these lights. Some have believed them 
to be souls come all on fire out of purgatory, to 
move the pitying spectators to say masses for 
their deliverance ; others, evil spirits seeking from 
mere love of mischief, to mis-lead benighted 
travellers. He comes 

“ On purpose to deceive us, 

And leading us makes us to stray 
Long winter nights out of the way, 

And when we stick in mire or clay, 

He doth with laughter leave us.” 





A traveller in England in the sixteenth century, 
records, that on the road from Canterbury to 
Dover, so many jack o’lanterns appeared that he 
and his party were greatly amazed and frightened. 

Mrs. B. 

Among the numerous advantages of science, 
not the least are the means it affords of explaining 
many appearances that were formerly regarded 
with alarm. How different the feelings of those 
who look at these vagrant lights as the mazy 
dance of sportive insects, and hear the little beetle’s 
tick as the voice of love and friendship to its kind, 
from theirs who regard the one as evil spirits 
on mischief bent, and listen to the other as the 
death knell of some endeared relative! 

Mr. B. 

The mind that is intelligently relieved from 
superstitious apprehensions, is freed from much 
needless suffering. 

It would be waste of time to tell how, not only 
death-watches and jack o’lanterns, but death’s-head 
moths, crickets, lady-birds and bees, with many 
others of these little harmless beings, have been 
supposed to influence the destinies of man, and have 
been courted or avoided as superstition dictated. 
One more terrific prodigy connected with our 





subject I cannot forbear to name:—You have heard 
of showers of blood as among the fearful portents 
of many gloomy periods. 

Frederick. 

I remember Ovid commemorates an occurrence 
of the kind among the prodigies which took place 
after the death of the great dictator:— 

u With threatening signs the lowering skies were fill’d, 
And sanguine drops from murky clouds distill’d.” 

Mr. B. 

In Stowe’s Chronicle we have two accounts 
of showers of blood in our own country; one 
of them “ occurred in the time of Brithricus, king 
of the West Saxons, (about 790 A. D.,) when 
it rained blood, which falling on men’s clothes, 
appeared like crosses.” In the reign of Octa¬ 
vius, we are told, blood fell in Egypt, and 
in that of Nero, in Italy, tinging the rivers 
with a red colour. Two similar nstances of 
showers of blood are recorded in the tenth century; 
one in the eleventh; two in the twelfth; one 
in the thirteenth; two in the fourteenth; one in 
the fifteenth; and five in the sixteenth. About 
the end of that century, it began to be suspected 
by men of science, that these phenomena were 
attributable to insect sources; and subsequent 





observations have confirmed the suspicion, and 
dispelled the gloom hitherto attendant on these 
appearances, by proving that the sanguineous 
showers, at sight of which the stoutest hearts 
had quailed, are really nothing more than drops 
of a red liquid which some papilionaceous insects, 
and especially the peacock, nettle, and atalanta 
butterflies, emit on quitting the puparium. 

This is but one of numerous instances in which 
an appearance deemed supernatural, and of which 
priestcraft had availed itself to impose on the 
ignorant, has been stripped by science of its 
terrors, and assigned to its right place among the 
great and curious works of a beneficient Creator. 

I regret to find that the hour which I had 
allotted this evening to our interesting subject 
is more than expended, and that we cannot for the 
present pursue it further. I believe, however, 
that the end proposed by our entomological 
discussions has been answered, and that my dear 
Emma will in future look with as much pleasure 
at insects, as at the plants and flowers which they 
inhabit and adorn. 































































































































































































































































































































































































































































CONTENTS. 





INTRODUCTION, showing the Necessity of Education. 

Addressed to my Little Reader ... 1 

CHAP. I. Jack's Mode of satisfying his Curiosity- 

The Ant-Hill 9 

CHAP. II. The Dead Horse-Fly ... 18 

CHAP. III. Another Visit to the Ant-Hill. Honey- 
Dew .22 

CHAP. IV. A Story about Beetles ... 26 

CHAP. V. Spiders : how they make their Webs . 30 

CHAP. VI. Jack visits the Beehives ... 38 

CHAP. VII. The Bees 42 

CHAP. VIII. More about the Bees . ' *8 
CHAP. IX. More about Bees 




CHAP. X. Something worth knowing . 58 

CHAP. XI. About Butterflies . . . 66 
CHAP. XII. About Insects in general ... 74 

CHAP. XIII. About the Wren Family, and other 

Matters 79 

CHAP. XIV. About the Hen and her Chickens . 88 

CHAP. XV. The Poultry- Yard . . . .97 

CHAP. XVI. About Birds in general The Story of 

Dick and the Giant .. r M * j { ' 106 

CHAP. XVII. About Quadrupeds %'; . . 117 

CHAP. XVIII. Geology . >S. t . .124 

CHAP. XIX. About Poetry and other Things . 136 

CHAP. XX. About True Stories and Fictitious Sto- 
- ries, Fables, Fairies, &c. . . ..7?. 147 

CHAP. XXI. About Dwarfs, Giants, &c. . . .161 
CONCLUSION . . > r , . . 168 






INTRODUCTION. 

SHOWING THE NECESSITY OF EDUCATION, 
ADDRESSED TO MY LITTLE READER. 

ALTHOUGH I profess to deal in matters 
that may amuse my young friends, I have a 
constant desire that, while they are enter- 
tained, they shall be instructed. The only 
way to be happy really and truly happy 
is to be wise; and wisdom comes through 
teaching. I think I can make this very plain, 
if you will listen to me a few moments. 

You know there are such people as savages 
who roam wild in the woods, or dwell in 
wigwams, sitting upon the ground, and sleep- 
ing upon the skins of beasts ; who have no 



books, nor schools, nor churches ; who have 
never read the Bible ; who know nothing of 
Jesus Christ, nor of the ten commandments. 

Well, what makes the difference between 
these wild, savage people, and those who live 
in good houses, in towns and cities, and have 
all the comforts and conveniences of life? 
Knowledge makes the whole difference, and 
knowledge comes by education. Do my little 
readers know that without education they 
would be savages ? Yet it is really so. All 
are born alike the child of the savage, and 
the child of the Christian : one grows up a 
savage, because its father and mother do not 
send it to school, do not furnish it with books, 
do not teach it to read and to write; the other 
grows up a Christian, because it is educated. 
Education, therefore, makes us to differ. 

Now, what do you think of this ? Do you 
consider that all children who hate books 
and instruction are trying to be like little 
savages ? I hope none of my readers are so 
unreasonable. I hope they see that it is best 
for them to be Christians, and as far as pos- 
sible from the savage state. I think one 
thing is very clear : our good Father in hea- 





ven, whom we ought all to love and obey, did 
not intend us to be savages ; but he has pro- 
vided only one way to avoid it, and that is 
by education. He makes it our duty, there- 
fore, as well as our happiness, to seek for in- 
struction. 

This design of our Creator is very apparent 
when we compare man with animals. Birds 
and beasts do not go to school ; they are pro- 
vided with all needful knowledge by that 
power which we call instinct. A little chick- 
en, only a day old, will run about and pick 
up seeds, which lie scattered among the 
stones and dirt. How does the chicken know 
that seeds are made to eat, and that stones 
are not made to eat ? How does the chicken 
distinguish the wholesome and nutritious 
seed from the dirt and gravel? God has 
taught it God has given it a wonderful in- 
stinct, by which it is guided in the choice 
and discovery of its food. 

But the infant has no such instinct ; left 
to itself, it will pick up dirt, stones, pins 
anything that comes in its way and put all 
into its little mouth ! The child has to be 
taught everything by its parents or its nurse. 




It must be taught what is good and what is 
evil what to seek, and what to shun. 

The chicken runs about as soon as it is 
hatched ; the child must be taught first to 
creep, then to walk. The chicken, left to 
itself, though but a day old, will hide from 
the hawk that would devour it ; the child, if 
left to itself, would as soon go into the fire, 
the water, or the bear's mouth, as anywhere 
else. The chicken is guided by instinct 
the child by instruction. 

Thus it appears that, while instinct is the 
guide of the animal world, education is the 
instrument by which children are to reach 
their true destiny. God meant us to be edu- 
cated; and children who hate education, 
hate God's will and God's way ; they hate 
the road that leads to their own happiness. 
Think of that think that when you resist 
instruction, you resist the will of Providence, 
and sin against your own peace ! 

There is another particular in respect to 
the mode in which the natural wants of ani- 
mals are supplied, which may teach you the 
same lesson. They use no tools, no cooking 
utensils. The beaver is a natural architect, 




and his instinct not only teaches him the art 
of house-building,, but he has a set of tools 
ready furnished. He has sharp teeth, with 
which he cuts down trees, and divides them 
into proper lengths : thus his teeth answer 
both as hatchet and saw. So it is with the 
woodpecker ; he never learnt a trade, or paid 
a shilling for tools yet he knows how to 
chisel out his hole in a dry tree and his bill 
answers both as gouge and hammer. The 
spider has no shuttle or loom; he never had 
a lesson in the factories yet he weaves his 
ingenious web, and he sets it, too, so as to 
take his prey. 




Surely Providence has taken care of these 
creatures in a wonderful way. And perhaps 
you think that God has been more kind to 
them than to human beings ; for while He 
teaches the animal world, He leaves children 




to schoolmasters ; and while He teaches the 
beavers and the birds their trade, and fur- 
nishes their tools, gratis boys must serve 
seven years to learn a trade, and pay for their 
tools when they have done ! 

But let us look a little farther. It is true 
that if children refuse to learn they remain 
ignorant, and like savages: but children 
can learn if they will. Education is offered 
to them and if it is improved, what is the 
result? Look around, and see those who 
have obeyed the will of God, and who have 
improved their faculties by education see 
what they are and what they have done. The 
instinct of the beaver is very wonderful; 
it enables the beaver to build mounds of earth, 
wood, and stone, which serve as its abode ; 
and it enables him to provide his food of 
roots, and grass, and fruits. But this is the 
whole stretch of instinct. 

Let us now look at the results of education, 
operating upon the faculties of man. Look 
at London, or Paris, or any other fine city. 
How many houses and if we go into them, 
b.ow beautiful how r convenient ! Look at 
the paved streets the pleasant side-walks! 





Go into the shops, and examine the beautiful 
articles there provided for use and ornament. 
Go into the museums, and see the wonders 
there, gathered from the four quarters of the 
globe. Go down to the waters and see the 
ships, made to plough the mighty ocean, and 
hold intercourse with the ends of the earth. 
Go to the churches, and see the people hold- 
ing communion with that God who built the 
earth, and spread out the heavens. Open 
the Bible, and read the wonders of revelation 
the mighty plan of man's salvation. Go 
to the fireside, and see the comfort, the peace, 
the happiness which are there : and remem- 
ber that all these things, every one of them, 
is the product of education. Oh, who then 
would be content with instinct, merely be- 
cause it is easy, and costs nothing; and 
spurn education because it requires effort ? 

Education, then, is a great and glorious 
thing ; but remember that you must take ad- 
vantage of it. The old adage says, " One 
man may lead a horse to water, but ten can't 
make him drink." It is so with children in 
education: it is easy to send them school, 
easy to put books before them, easy to give 





them good counsel ; but if they will not try to 
learn, they will not learn: you cannot teach an 
unwilling mind. When I was a boy, I caught 
a blue jay, and put him in a cage ; but he 
would not eat. I got hold of his head and 
opened his mouth, and put food into it, but 
he would not swallow; and so he died ! Now 
this is just the way with some boys and girls 
they will not take knowledge into their 
minds ; they reject good counsel even if you 
cram it down. 

Well, now I am going to tell you the story 
of INQUISITIVE JACK, who, by his own 
efforts, made the most of a very little educa- 
tion. I present his example to your consi- 
deration, and hope you may learn by it to 
accustom yourselves to observe and think 
how to gain knowledge and make it useful. 





CHAPTER I. 

JACK'S MODE OF SATISFYING HIS CURIO- 
SITY THE ANT-HILL. 

HERE sits INQUISITIVE JACK, with his 
book, for he has now learned to read. It is 
evening, and his mother has gone to see one 
of the neighbours, while he sits by the cradle 
of his little sister, to take care of her, in case 
she wakes up. 

But I must tell you about Jack, when he 





was quite young, and before he could read. 
Almost all children have a deal of curiosity, 
and they ask a great many questions of their 
parents and others. As for instance : What 
makes the fire burn? Why does the sun 
shine? Who made the moon? Why do cats 
have ears ? Where does the blaze go when 
you blow out the candle, &c.? 

Now Jack had his share of curiosity too ; 
but he took a way to gratify it not common 
among children, and it is a very good way ; 
I am going to tell you about it. He lived in 
the country, and his father had several acres 
of land around the house. Here were high 
rocks, and some woods, and a little valley 
where there was a small pond. There were 
also a field and a garden. 

Now Jack had a fancy for roaming about 
his father's grounds, when he was a very lit- 
tle child. His greatest pleasure was to go 
alone over the rocks, and through the woods, 
and to the little valley. He delighted parti- 
cularly to go to the pond, and see the frogs, 
and fishes, and tadpoles and leeches, and in- 
sects that made their home there. He would 
stand for hours upon the rocks, quite ab- 





sorbed in noticing the manners and customs 
of these inhabitants of the pond. 

Now Jack was so much in the habit of 
living out of doors, and walking about, that 
the objects he met with became, as it were, 
companions to him. He never seemed to feel 
alone, if only some flowers, or bushes, or trees 




were around him. He was never impatient, 
never restless, never in a hurry, while saun- 
tering among natural objects. 

I will tell you an instance, to show how 
he enjoyed himself when he was among the 
bushes. 

Just after he had learned to talk, a young 
lady who was staying at his father's house, 



happened to go into the woods where she 
found Jack. He was sitting by the side of 
a whortleberry bush which was covered with 
green whortleberries. " What are you doing 
here ?" said she to Jack. " Jack is waiting 
for the whortleberries to get ripe !" was his 
reply. 

Now, perchance, some of my sharp little 
friends will think Jack a silly boy ; but wait 




lads and lasses, and hear his story before 
you decide. I have said that he had a way 
peculiar to himself of gratifying his curiosity. 
Instead of asking a string of questions, one 
after another, without waiting for a single 
answer, he was in the habit of observing 
things and investigating them. In this way 
he gained a great deal of knowledge. 




Perhaps you may wish to know what I 
mean by observing and investigating. I will 
try to make you understand. 

One day in spring Jack was in the garden, 
digging up a place to sow some pepper-grass 
seed. By and by he happened to see an ant 
running along with a piece of a leaf in his 
mouth. So he stopped his work and looked 
at the ant. The little insect paddled along 
with his six legs very fast, and soon came to 
a little hillock of earth, about as large as a 
wash-hand basin turned upside down. 

It, seemed to consist of a heap of particles 
of sand. Now Jack, instead of running away 
to tell his mother about what he had seen, 
remained to observe and look into the mat- 
ter, or investigate it. On looking at the lit- 
tle mound, he saw there were a number of 
holes in it ; and into one of them the little 
ant with the leaf, plunged head first. " I 
wonder where he is gone to V 9 said Jack. In 
a minute or two several ants came out of 
these holes, and some of them had small white 
things that looked like eggs. These they laid 
down in the sun, and went into their holes 
to fetch more. 


Every ant seemed to be busy about some- 
thing. Jack saw several ants go away from 
the hill. He determined to observe them, 
and find out what was going on. He watched 
one fellow particularly, and he went to the 
distance of as much as three yards. There 
was a large dead fly. The ant went to work, 
gnawed off his head, took it in his teeth, and 
scrambled back to the hill, and down he 
went into one of the holes. 

In a few seconds he came back, made 
another journey to the dead fly, sawed off 
another portion, and transported it to the 
hill. In this way he kept going out and in, 
and in the course of an hour, the ant had 
carried off the whole carcase of the fly. 
" Well," said Jack to himself, " I suppose 
that fellow is the butcher, and supplies the 
ant-folks with meat !" 

While all this was going on, Jack had time 
to observe and investigate other things. He 
saw one ant go as much as a dozen times to 
a dandelion, and load himself with the yellow 
powder which he gathered from the blossoms. 
" I suppose this must be the baker !" said 
Jack. He saw several climb up the stalks of 





tall plants, to get the juice or honey from 
the blossoms. " These fellows seem to be 
the grocers \" said the boy. 

By and by, Jack saw an ant going along, 
when he chanced to arrive at another hill. 
Immediately he began to smell about this 
way and that but an ant upon the strange 
hill saw him. In he went, at a hole, and in 
a few seconds he sallied forth with five or six 
others in his rear. They darted forward, 
heels over head, towards the intruder, the 
strange ant. He had become aware of the 
danger, and was galloping back towards his 
own hill as fast as his legs could carry him. 
Jack looked on with as much interest as if it 
had been a fox-chase. 

The little red ant that had stirred up this 
affray went straight ahead, and pretty soon 
came to a ball of earth as big as a walnut. 
Deeming it better to climb over than to go 
round it, he began to mount, when the leader 
among the pursuers, a large black ant, stuck 
his teeth into him. The red ant turned round 
and grappled ; both fell backwards, and rolled 
upon the earth, when there followed a great 
deal of scratching and biting. 




At last little Red escaped having given 
Black a severe wound. The others now came 
up, and the chase was resumed. By and by 
the party approached Red's home. Here he 
met some of his friends. They carried the 
alarm to the hill. In a few seconds, at least 
fifty ants, all red, sallied forth. " I imagine 
these are the soldiers \" says Jack and so 
they were, sure enough. 

They took the direction toward the party 
that had chased our little hero, Red. Black 
had now recovered, and was at their head. 
He mounted a small stone to reconnoitre and 
see the force of the enemy. He perceived 
that the force was too great, and giving the 
alarm to his party, they all scampered back, 
jumping, galloping, and tumbling, one after 
another. 

The army of the Reds pursued, and finally 
approached the city of the Blacks, close upon 
the heels of the ants that had insulted and 
abused their fellow-citizen. The Blacks 
were soon made aware of the danger that 
threatened them. The fellows that had been 
out on the scout, thumped on the hill, and 
forty or fifty stout fellows rushed forth. They 



marched toward the regiment of Reds, and 
now a fierce battle ensued. 

It was claw to claw teeth to teeth. They 
pulled and hauled bit and scratched ; and 
after a few minutes, the battle was over. One 
large black ant was killed. He was cut into 
four pieces, and the Reds carried him home, 
no doubt for a feast. 

While Jack was busy in observing and in- 
vestigating these things, he heard his mother's 
call. Though he had been engaged at least 
four hours in observing these things, he was 
not weary, and would gladly have staid 
longer ; but being an obedient and good boy, 
he forthwith went to his mother, and found 
his dinner ready. It was one advantage of 
his morning exercise, that the fresh air had 
given him a good appetite. 







CHAPTER II. 

THE STORY OF THE DEAD HORSE-FLY. 
AUNT MARY. 

I HAVE told you in the preceding chapter 
how Jack watched the ants in the garden. 
He was very young at this time, and having 
never been to school he did not even know 
how to read ; but by observing and investi- 
gating things, he had obtained a great deal 
of knowledge. 

As he now learned something about the 
ants, he desired to know more : so he used 
very often to go and look at them. He did 
not stamp with his heel on the ant-hills, and 





crush the houses of the little busy creatures. 
Some boys do this, and think there is fun in 
it ; but Jack looked upon all innocent and 
harmless creatures with a feeling of affection, 
and he loved rather to help them, than to kill 
or disturb them. 

One day he found a large dead horse-fly ; 
so he took it and laid it down at a little dis- 
tance from the ant-hill, and soon saw one of 
the ants come near the fly. He took hold 
of it and tried to carry it ; then pulled and 
hauled it with all his might ; but finding that 
he could not manage it, he set off for the hill. 
It was as much as two yards that he had to 
travel, but he very soon got to his journey's 
end. He there met several of his companions. 
He went close to them, and seemed to touch 
them with his little feelers. Immediately 
four of them set off with him, and went to the 
dead fly. Jack did not hear the ant speak, 
and, perhaps, he had no voice ; but it was 
quite plain that he in some way told his 
friends what he had found, and that he 
wished them to go with him. 

When they got to the dead fly, they took 
hold of it, and began to drag it towards the 




hill. It was twice as big as all the five ants 
put together; but they jerked, and pulled, 
and twitched, and it was really quite won- 
derful to see how fast they got the carcase 
along over the rough earth. Every ant did 
his best : there was no lazy fellow among 
them, skulking and shamming so as to put 
off the hard work upon his companions. 

In a very short time, the ants had brought 
the fly to the hill. As they approached, great 
numbers ran out, to see what was coming. 
In a few seconds all was life and bustle, and 
it really seemed like a city when some great 
sight has brought all the people into the 
streets. 

But the ants did not spend their time in 
gazing: immediately they began to cut up 
the fly, for he was too big to be got into one 
of their houses. One sawed off a leg, another 
a wing, and another the head ; each carrying 
his piece into the hill. In the space of about 
five minutes the fly was cut to pieces, and 
Stowed away in the city of the ants. 

Jack was greatly delighted with what he 
saw. Every evening he used to tell his father 
and mother what he had observed during the 




day, and they were always pleased with his 
simple stories. 

But Jack had an aunt, whose name was 
Mary, and who, having no husband or chil- 
dren to take care of, spent a great deal of her 
time in talking with him. Whenever he met 
with anything curious, he used always to tell 
her. She was not only kind to Jack, but she 
had read a great deal, and was therefore able 
to give him much instruction. 

Jack had got so much interested in the 
ants, that he now begged his Aunt to go with 
him and see them. She agreed to go the next 
day, and Jack went to bed full of pleasure at 
the idea of visiting his little insect-friends the 
next morning with his Aunt Mary. 







CHAPTER III. 

ANOTHER VISIT TO THE ANT-HILL. 
HONEY-DEW. 

As soon as breakfast was over, the next 
day, Jack and his aunt set out to visit the 
ants in the garden. Jack soon pointed out 
a hill, which he had observed before, and they 
both sat down to watch the little creatures at 
their work. 

As usual, all seemed to be busy. Some 
appeared to be occupied in bringing out the 
eggs, which they laid in the sun, so that they 
might hatch the sooner. Some were engaged 
in cleaning out the house, for they were seen 
to bring out small pieces of sand, which they 
carried to a little distance, and threw them 
away. One was seen to come up with a large 
piece of earth, which he rolled along w r ith 
much difficulty. 

While a part of the little people were thus 
engaged in housewifery, others appeared to 
be bringing food together. Sometimes these 





brought flies and pieces of insects ; sometimes 
they appeared to have filled their stomachs, 
and when they met their friends who stayed at 
home, they would put a part of their food 
into their mouths, and feed them, as a mother 
does a child. 

As I have said, aunt Mary had a good deal 
of knowledge, and she had heard that ants 
sometimes get a kind of honey from other 
insects. She was very curious to see this 
herself, So she watched some of the little 




creatures, and observed that they went to 
some large plants that were growing near. 
They ascended the stalks, some of which were 
covered with what is called honey-dew, a 
substance supposed to be deposited by a very 
small sort of insects, which live in great 
numbers upon vegetables. 

Many of the ants stopped to eat this honey- 



dew, which they seemed to be very fond of; 
but others, not finding any of this on the 
stalks, mounted to the full-blown flower, 
where they found numbers of the little insects 
imbedded in the yellow down. The ants im- 
mediately began to suck the honey-dew from 
them, and what was wonderful, these crea- 
tures remained quite still, and seemed pleased 
to have the ants lick the honey off them ! 

This sight gratified Jack and his aunt very 
much, and they spent a long time in watching 
the operations of these curious creatures. 
After spending two or three hours very plea- 
santly, they went to the house. Aunt Mary 
then got a book and read something about 
ants to Jack. I will tell you a few of the 
wonderful things she read to him. 

There are a great many kinds of ants ; 
some are almost an inch long, and others are 
not bigger than a grain of sand. In some 
countries the ants build hills twice as high 
as a man's head. In Africa there are white 
ants, that devour trees, and they are so nu- 
merous that it is dangerous for men to go 
among them, unless several can go together 
and destroy them at once. 




The little garden ants are very harmless ; 
they not only eat up a great deal of the honey- 
dew deposited upon plants, and which would 
otherwise injure them, but they also devour 
a great deal of matter that would putrefv and 
make the air unwholesome. 




CHAPTER IV. 

A STORY ABOUT BEETLES. 

ONE day, as Jack was going along in the 
field, he saw a dead mole lying upon the 
ground. He took it up, and admired its soft 
fur, and the rays upon its nose, making it 
look in shape like a star. He looked also 
very carefully to see if it had eyes, for he had 
been told that moles are blind. 

After looking all over the head of the mole, 
Jack at last discovered two little eyes, as 
black and shining as beads, very near the 
creature's nose. They were deeply hidden 
in the fur, and for this reason it is that people 
say that a mole is blind. Jack, by investi- 
gating for himself, discovered the truth, which 




is, that moles have eyes. Their eyes are so 
small, and so imbedded in fur, because if they 
were larger, they would be exposed to injury, 
as the creature lives under-ground, and digs 
a great deal in the earth. 

Having examined the mole for some time, 
Jack threw it down, and went his way. 
About two or three hours afterwards, he was 
coming back the same path. As he was 




passing the dead mole, he noticed that it ap- 
peared to be sunk in the ground. He stopped, 
and looked at it attentively. After a while, 
he saw a large beetle creep from under it, and 
run round it. 

This attracted Jack's attention, and kneel- 





ing down, he watched carefully to see what 
was going on. After looking about a little, 
he noticed that there were four or five beetles, 
all at work, digging a hole under the mole, 
into which the creature was gradually sinking. 

He lifted up the mole a little, so that he 
might observe them more carefully ; but the 
creatures did not seem to mind him. They 
went on with their work, digging away the 
earth, which they threw gut at the sides. It 
was amusing to see how they toiled. 

The heads of the beetles were shaped some- 
what like a spade. With these they dug up 
the earth, and then clawed it away with their 
feet. Never did a set of men digging a cellar 
appear more active and efficient. 

Jack had always before disliked beetles as 
being ugly, disagreeable things ; but now he 
was delighted to see them. He immediately 
ran off to get his aunt Mary to come and 
observe what was going on. She was very 
busy, but Jack persuaded her to go with 
him. 

They soon came to the spot, and his aunt 
now saw that what Jack had told her was all 
true. The beetles were, indeed, burying the 




mole. " But what are they doing it for ? 
are they sextons ?" said Jack. 

" They are called burying beetles" said the 
aunt ; " but, Jack, I shall leave you to find 
out yourself what they are burying the mole 
for." So, after a time, Jack and his aunt 
went away. The next day Jack went to the 
place, but the mole was not to be seen ! 
There was a little spot of fresh earth where 
it had lain, but that was all. 

Jack began to dig away the earth a little, 
with his fingers, and about two inches below 
the surface, there was the mole. The beetles 
were all around the carcase, making a feast 
of it. Jack covered up the hole, and left them 
to themselves. 







CHAPTER V. 

SPIDERS. HOW THEY MAKE THEIR WEBS. 

THERE are a great many people who ima- 
gine that such little things as bees, butter- 
flies, spiders, and other insects are unworthy 
of their notice ; but this is a great mistake. 
Inquisitive Jack, the hero of our story, did 
not fall into this error. He had an inquiring 
mind, and nothing was beneath his observa- 
tion. 




One morning, very soon after the sun had 
risen, he was walking along among some 
bushes ; it was early summer, and a heavy 
dew had fallen. As he was going along, the 
thread of a spider, strung from one bush to 
another, came across his nose, and he broke 
it as he passed along. 

Soon after this he met with other instances 
in which the spiders 5 threads were extended 
from one shrub to another. Now Jack was 
always asking himself how such and such a 
thing is done ; and he therefore began to in- 
quire how these spiders could stretch a line 
across from one tree to another; for he ob- 
served that these threads were sometimes 
ten or even fifteen feet from the ground, and 
that they extended often to as great a dis- 
tance from the branch of one tree to that of 
another. 

Jack's habit of investigation had made him 
very ingenious in explaining things; but 
here was something quite beyond his reach. 
He could in no way explain what he saw. 

" Strange," said Jack to himself, that 
these little insignificant spiders should know 
more than I do ! I like to find out things 





myself, but I cannot explain this ; so I must 
go and ask aunt Mary about it." 

As Jack turned on his heel to fulfil his 
resolution, he noticed another spider's web 
covered with dew. His attention now being 
excited to the subject, he turned round, and 
saw as many as fifty others, set like nets 
among the bushes and the tall grass. 

Jack had seen these things before, but his 
attention had not been excited, and therefore 
he had not investigated them. He now set 
about the inquiry, with all the ardour of 
youthful curiosity. 

He spent some time in observing the dif- 
ferent kinds of webs, and then proceeded to 
his aunt to ask her about them. She accord- 
ingly sat down, took her knitting- work, and 
while she worked briskly at her needles, she 
gave the information he desired in the follow- 
ing conversation. 

Jack. Oh ! aunt Mary, I have found 
something so curious ! Do you know I have 
been looking at the spiders, and I want you 
to tell me about them. Pray where do they 
get their threads ? and how do they weave 
their nets so curiously ? and how do they 




fasten their threads to the leaves ? and how 
do they stretch them from one tree to ano- 
ther ? and what do they do it all for, for fun 
or for business ? 

A. One question at a time, if you please, 
Jack. 

J. Why I want you to tell me all about the 
spiders. 

A. But where shall I begin: 1 




J. Oh ! I do not care where you begin, I 
want you to tell me everything. 

A. Well Jack, I will tell you what I 
know, and I shall answer your last ques- 
tion first. The spiders, I suppose, make 
their nets both for fun and business, for plea- 
sure and profit. These creatures live chiefly 





upon flies, but they are themselves destitute 
of wings. They are, therefore, provided with 
the means of making nets, by which they can 
catch as many flies as they want. Thus you 
see that God, who made the spiders, has pro- 
vided them with the means to get a living. 
So it is, dear Jack, that He provides for 
everything : the wants of even the insects are 
supplied ; nothing is overlooked. 

J. I thank you, aunt Mary, for that 
idea ; it makes the spider much more inter- 
esting when we consider it as the work of 
Providence. 

A. Yes, that is true, my boy. Now as 
the spiders spread their nets in order to 
get a living, or for business, as you express 
it, they do it also for pleasure for business 
and pleasure usually go together. There is 
always more real satisfaction in doing some- 
thing that is useful than in mere idle sport. 
It is so with human beings, and no doubt it 
is so with spiders. 

J. Well, aunt Mary, you have answered 
one of my questions ; but pray tell me where 
the spiders get their threads. Are any of 
them rope-makers ? 




At Yes, Jack, every one of them. Each 
one spins his own thread, and this is the 
most wonderful part of the whole story. 
You observe that the lower part of a spider's 
body consists of a round ball. In this the 
insect has a gummy substance which is spun 
into thread. It somewhat resembles melted 
glass, for a coarse thread of it is brittle when 
it becomes dry ; while a fine thread is as flex- 
ible as the fibres of cotton or silk. The man- 
ner in which this gum or paste is twisted 
into threads has occupied the attention of 
many philosophers. By looking at the pro- 
cess through magnifying glasses, it has been 
discovered that even the finest thread in the 
web of the spider consists of many hundred 
strands. These are drawn out from the body 
of the insect in a soft state, like paste, but 
they immediately unite and form one com- 
pact cord. In some instances it is said that 
a single thread consists of four thousand 
strands. 

J. But that must be a mistake ! 

A. No, it is certainly true. There are 
many things invisible to the naked eye, 
which are revealed to us by the aid of mag- 




nifying glasses. With the naked eye we can- 
not see more than a thousand stars in the 
sky ; with a telescope we can see millions of 
stars. With the naked eye we can see no- 
thing but fibres in the stalk of a flower, but 
by the aid of a microscope we can see there 
myriads of creeping things. So by the aid 
of a microscope we can discover the thou- 
sand strands of which the spider's thread is 
composed. 

J. Well aunt, I am not going to dispute, 
for I know that you have always a good 
reason for what you say. But pray tell me 
how do the spiders tie their lines to the leaves 
and grass ? 

A. They stick them on with a kind of 
glue, with which nature has provided them. 

J. Well, how do they stretch their lines 
across from one tree to another? 

A. When a spider wishes to build a 
bridge from one shrub to another he climbs 
up to a certain height, and draws out a long 
loose line, taking care to have it in such a 
situation that the wind will carry it across to 
some other tree. The end of the floating line 
is provided with a gummy substance, and 




fastens itself at once to whatever it touches. 
When the spider finds that his line has 
caught he pulls it to see if it is fast, and then 
makes a bridge of it, and crosses over in per- 
fect safety. He now goes backwards and 
forward, each time adding a thread, for the 
purpose of giving it strength. This line is 
like the rope to a fisherman's net, and the 
spider immediately begins to weave his net 
upon it. He proceeds to set several strings 
round, somewhat like the spokes of a wheel, 
and these he binds together by a series of 
circular threads. When the whole is done, 
he weaves a hole in some sly corner, into 
which he retreats ; but the moment that a 
fly gets entangled in his net he darts forth, 
binds him round and round like a prisoner, 
and carries him off to his den. 

Such was the main part of the dialogue 
that passed between Jack and his aunt. The 
boy expressed great satisfaction for what she 
had told him, and then went away to take 
another walk in the fields. 





CHAPTER VI. 

JACK VISITS THE BEEHIVES. 

ONE day Jack was going along by a row 
of beehives, which belonged to his father, 
when he observed an unusual confusion 
among the bees of one of them. A great 
many bees were going in and out at the holes 
of the hive, buzzing and seeming to be in the 
greatest flurry. Besides this, the bees had 




collected on the outside of the hive in a great 
mass, at least an inch deep in one place. 

Jack had seen the beehives so often that 
he had not thought much about them ; but 
now his attention was fixed. He stopped 
and began to look at what was going on, par- 
ticularly among the bees of the hive we have 
mentioned. " Perhaps it is Sunday," said 
Jack to himself, " among these creatures ; or 
it may be election day, and they are going to 
choose a governor or president. Oh, I recol- 
lect, aunt Mary told me once that the bees 
were governed by a queen ; and perhaps they 
are now going to choose one !" 




Saying this, Jack sat down upon the grass 
and creeping pretty close to the hive, quietly 
looked on. Though those bees which had 
settled into a heap were quiet, there were 
many who were flying hither and thither 





up and down round and round in and out 
appearing to be brimful of something very 
important, but really doing nothing after 
all. With them it was all buzz, buzz, buzz ! 

Jack had looked on for about half an hour 
when he saw an unusual agitation in the 
bees that had congregated upon the outside 
of the hive ; they began to flutter their little 
wings, and run this way and that. All at 
once a portion of them took flight, and rising 
about forty feet in the air, whirled round and 
round for a few minutes and then streamed 
away upon the wind. They were followed 
by others, so that a continued line of bees was 
distinctly visible in the air. 

Jack, greatly excited, followed the run- 
away bees till, at the distance of about three 
hundred yards, he found that they began to 
light upon an apple tree. Here they collected 
very fast, and he soon saw them gathered in 
a large dark mass upon one of the limbs. He 
now ran home and told his father what was 
going on. 

Jack's father set out with another man for 
the scene of action, having provided a new 
hive and a brass kettle. When they came to 





the apple tree they began to beat the kettle, 
thinking that such music is apt to induce 
bees when swarming to settle down the more 
readily. The whole company soon arrived 
and alighted upon the limb. They were col- 
lected one upon the other, and the whole 
mass looked about as large round as a man's 
arm. 

The new hive was now placed upon a bench 
beneath the tree, and some honey was put 
near the holes. At evening the limb to which 
the bees were still clinging was carefully cut 
down and placed near the hive. In the morn- 
ing the bees began to leave their place upon 
the bough and to enter the hive. In a short 
time they had all taken up their abode in it, 
and immediately they began to build cells, 
in which to store their honey. That evening 
the hive was removed and placed upon the 
same platform as the other hives. Its inha- 
bitants seemed all pleased with their new 
home, and very soon they had stored it with 
honey. 





CHAPTER VII. 

THE BEES. 

IN the preceding chapter we have told how 
Jack became interested about the bees : we 
shall now relate some of those curious things 
which his aunt Mary told him respecting the 
manners and customs of these ingenious and 
wonderful insects. The habits of bees have 
been carefully studied by many learned and 
curious persons ; but M. Huber, a Swiss gen- 
tleman, has done more than any other man to 
make us acquainted with them. And yet 
Huber was blind ! His wife assisted him in 





his observations ! and thus by making use of 
her eyes, he was able to pursue his studies 
with great success. 

There are three different kinds of bees in 
every hive. First, the labouring bees, which 
make up by far the greater number, and are 
thought to be neither male nor female, but 
merely born for the purposes of labour. The 
second sort are the drones ; they are of a 
darker colour, longer, and more thick by one 
third than the former ; they are supposed to 
be the males, and there are not above a hun- 
dred of them in a hive of seven or eight thou- 
sand bees. The third sort is much larger 
than either of the former, and there is never 
but one permitted to live in a swarm. These 
are called queen bees, and they lay all the 
eggs from which the whole swarm is hatched 
in a season. 

In examining the structure of the common 
working bee, the first thing that attracts our 
attention is the trunk, which serves to extract 
the honey from flowers. It is not formed 
like that of other flies, in the shape of a tube 
by which the honey is to be sucked up ; but 
like a broom to sweep or a tongue to lick it 




away. The animal is furnished also with 
teeth, which serve it in making wax, a sub- 
stance which is gathered from flowers, like 
honey; it consists of that dust or farina 
which contributes to the fruitfulness of 
plants. 

Every bee when it leaves the hive to col- 
lect its precious store enters into the cups of 
the flowers, particularly such as seem charged 
with the greatest quantity of this yellow 
farina. As the animal's body is covered with 
hair, it rolls itself within the flower and 
becomes quite covered with the dust, which 
it soon after brushes off with its two hind 
legs, and kneads into two little balls. 

In the thighs of the hind legs there are two 
cavities edged with hair, and into these, as 
into a basket, the animal sticks the rolls or 
pellets which it has collected. Thus employed 
the bee flies from flower to flower, increasing 
its store and adding to its stock of wax until 
the ball upon the thigh becomes of consider- 
able size, when it returns, making the best of 
its way to the hive. 

The lower part of the body or belly of the 
bee is divided into six.rings, which shorten or 





lengthen the body by slipping one over the 
other. It contains within it, besides the in- 
testines, the honey-bag, the venom-bag, and 
the sting. The honey-bag is as transparent 
as crystal, containing the honey that the bee 
has brushed from the flowers ; of which the 
greater part is carried to the hive and poured 
into the cells of the honey-comb, while the 
remainder serves for the bee's own nourish- 
ment; for during the summer it never touches 
what has been laid up for winter. 

The sting, which serves to defend this little 
animal from its enemies, is composed of three 
parts ; the sheath and two darts which are 
extremely small and penetrating. Both the 
darts have several small points or barbs, like 
those of a fish-hook, which render the sting 
more painful, and make the darts rankle in 
the wound. Still, however, this instrument 
would be a very slight defence, did not the 
bee poison the wound. The sheath, which has 
a sharp point, makes the first impression, 
which is followed by that of the darts, and 
then the venomous liquor is poured in. 

The sheath, with the barbs, sometimes 
sticks so fast in the wound that the animal 




is obliged to leave it behind ; in consequence 
of which the bee soon after dies, and the 
wound is considerably inflamed. It might 
at first appear well for mankind if the bee 
were without its sting ; but upon recollection 
it will be found that the little animal would 
then have too many rivals in sharing its la- 
bours. A hundred other lazy animals, fond 
of honey and hating labour, would intrude 
upon the sweets of the hive ; and the treasure 
would be carried off for want of armed 
guardians to protect it. As the bee lays up 
a most delicious store, it was obviously neces- 
sary that it should have some extraordinary 
defence, and so the sting was provided. 

The most interesting point of view in which 
we can regard bees, is not as separate indi- 
viduals, but as societies or communities. In 
this light they indeed astonish us. It being 
necessary that their hives should be tight, 
the first thing they do is to stop up all the 
crevices with a kind of resinous gum, which 
resists the weather. 

They then proceed to form their cells, 
which we call honey-comb. These are built 
in hexagons, or six-sided figures ; and ma- 




thematicians tell us that this form is the very 
best for the purpose, as it unites the greatest 
strength with the greatest capacity. The 
philosophers found out this fact by deep 
study but who told the little bees of it ? 
They never went to college to learn mathe- 
matics. How then should they always build 
their cells in hexagons ? 

This was one of the questions put by Jack 
to his aunt Mary, and she answered as fol- 
lows: "Bees are provided with wonderful 
knowledge, which we call instinct. It is born 
with them, and is a part of their nature, given 
to them by God who made them. He knows 
everything he knows that a hexagon is the 
best form for the bees to build their cells in, 
and so he furnished them with an instinct, 
which leads them to follow this method of 
building. Is it not interesting to see the 
Almighty thus displaying his knowledge and 
skill, for the benefit of even the little bees? 








CHAPTER VIII. 

MORE ABOUT THE BEES. 

THE queen is the mother of all the young 
bees, for she lays all the eggs from which 
young ones are hatched. When she wishes 
to lay the eggs she goes to the cells which 
have been made by the workers, and having 
taken a peep into them, drops in her eggs, 
taking care to distribute them properly. It 
is said that a single queen will lay six thou- 
sand eggs in a month, and sometimes one 
hundred thousand in a year ! 

The eggs are very small, of a blueish white 
colour, and of a long oval shape. They re- 
main four days, and are then hatched. At 
first the young bee is only a white worm or 
maggot, and may be seen floating at the bot- 
tom of the cell, in a whitish fluid, furnished 
by the nursing bees. It grows rapidly, and 
as it lengthens coils itself into a ring. It is 
then called a grub- worm or larva. 

The little worms are carefully attended by 





the nurses, and as soon as these approach, 
and touch them they open their minute jaws 
and receive their food. This consists of a 
kind of soft pap, formed of the farina of 
flowers, and partly digested in the stomachs 
of the nurses. 

" Really/ 5 said Jack, " the bees seem to be 
very rational kind of creatures. But what 
makes me wonder very much is how they 
should know anything without books or in- 
struction y 

" That is indeed very wonderful/' said his 
aunt, " and we can only explain it by referring 
it to that admirable teaching of their Creator, 
called instinct." 

When the little worms are about four or 
five days old, and have grown so large and 
fat as to fill their cells, the nurses seal them 
up with a brown cover of a conical form. No 
sooner does the larva find himself shut in 
than he begins to work up and down, and to 
wind round himself fine silky threads, which 
he draws in two strands from the middle part 
of his under lip. Round and round he goes, 
nor does he stop till he has woven about him- 
self a thin pod or pellicle just fitting the 



cell. In this condition the creature is called 
a nymph or pupa. 

The working bee is about thirty-six hours 
in spinning and weaving its cocoon or cover- 
ing. It thus spends about three days, during 
which a wonderful change is going on. 
When in the larva state, the creature has no 
wings or legs; it is a simple w T orm. But 
while it is in its swaddling clothes the legs 
and wings are gradually formed ; and at the 
end of twenty-one days from the laying of 
the egg, it gnaws through its covering, and 
comes forth a winged insect, destined to sport 
in the air and hold a joyous revel amongst 
the flowers. As if impatient for sport, the 
insect goes forth soon after its birth, and it 
is said that it may be seen returning to the 
hive, loaded with wax, the same day that it 
becomes a bee ! 

While the young bees are in the larva state 
the utmost care is taken of them. If any 
member of the hive is rude or careless to- 
wards the egg or worm, or the yet un hatched 
pupa, the nurses are very angry. But when 
the pupa has gnawed his way through his co- 
vering he seems to be regarded as of age, 



and able to take care of himself. The tender 
care of the nurse now ceases altogether ; and 
the working bees scramble over his head 
without scruple. While he is still weak, and 
scarcely strong enough to get out of his cell, 
as if for the very purpose of making him ac- 
quainted with the hardships of life, the rude 
multitude of bees rush headlong by, often 
knocking him down, and sometimes giving 
him a severe poke in the side, or a thump on 
his head. How much like human creatures 
the bees are ! 

I have told you how the working-bee 
nymphs are hatched; the complete bee is 
formed in twenty-one days. The process is 
nearly the same in respect to the queen bees 
and the drones; the former, however, are 
hatched in sixteen days, and the latter in 
twenty-five from the laying of the eggs. 

There is one thing in respect to the royal 
bees, or queens, too curious to be omitted. 
When one is nearly ready to emerge from 
her cell, the bees gnaw the covering so as to 
make it very thin. They then eat a small 
hole through it, and feed the pupa for a few 
days. She is thus kept a prisoner, and during 



this time she sings a faint song, called piping. 
You may, if you like, imagine these to be the 
words of her song. 

LAY OF THE INFANT QUEEN BEE. 

O let me out 
My masters pray. 
O let me out 
To day to day ! 

Oh let me out 
To try my wing, 
To run about 
And dance and sing. 

Oh let me out 
To taste the breeze, 
And I will bless 
Ye, pretty bees ! 

Oh let me out 
To see the bowers, 
Where honey dwells 
In golden flowers ! 

Oh let me out 
For I'm a queen 
A pretty bee 
As e'er was seen ! 

In spite of her petition, she is generally 
detained for four or five days after she begins 
to sing. 




CHAPTER IX. 

MORE ABOUT BEES. 

AFTER the swarming season is over, a ge- 
neral massacre of the drones in the hive 
takes place. This usually occurs toward the 
latter part of July. The unfortunate victims 
evidently perceive their danger ; for they are 
now seen darting in and out of the hive, and 
passing from one place to another, as if afraid 
of being seized. 





When the working bees meet these drones, 
they fall upon them and plunge their stings 
into their bodies. The wounded drones ge- 
nerally expand their wings and expire. Some 
of them struggle hard for life, and some 
escape from the hive to starve abroad, but 
they are all slain at last. 

This destruction of the drones may remind 
us of the old Spartans of Greece, who sacri- 
ficed everything to the thrift and prosperity 
of the state. The beehive may be considered 
a little monarchy, in which the great object 
is to increase the wealth of the community. 
The drones having provided for the due in- 
crease of the bees, can no farther contribute 
to the prosperity of the little nation. On the 
contrary, they will not work even so much 
as to obtain their own food ; they still devour 
a portion of honey, and thus diminish the 
general stock which is laid up as a provision 
against the coming winter. For the interest 
of the community at large, the drones are 
slain without mercy. 

The swarming of bees may be compared 
to the emigration of a great number of people 
from one country to form a colony in another. 





In the winter, at least three fourths of the 
bees in the hives usually perish. But the 
amazing fruitfulness of the queen more than 
supplies this waste, and by Midsummer, the 
hive is usually too full for all its inhabitants 
to be comfortable. 

The swarm is very careful to select a fine 
day for its emigration. They usually take 
one of the young queens with them, and, if 
by any chance the swarm passes off without 
a queen, they always return to the hive. 
While swarming, bees are generally peace- 
able, and may be hived without difficulty. 

A writer upon bees tells the following in- 
teresting story: "A little girl of my ac- 
quaintance was greatly afraid of bees, but 
was completely cured of her fears by the fol- 
lowing incident. A swarm having come off, 
I observed the queen alight by herself at 
some distance from the hive ; I immediately 
called my little friend that I might show her 
the queen. She wished to see her more 
nearly; so, after having caused her to put on 
her gloves, I gave the queen into her hand. 

e( We were in an instant surrounded by the 
whole swarm. In this emergency, I encou- 





raged the girl to be steady, bidding her re- 
main silent and fear nothing. I then made 
her stretch out her right hand which held 
the queen, and covered her neck and shoul- 
ders with a very thin handkerchief. The 
swarm soon fixed upon her hand, and hung 
from it, as from the branch of a tree. The 
little girl was delighted above measure at 
this novel sight, and was so entirely freed 
from all her fears that she bade me uncover 
her face. At length, 1 brought a hive, and 
shaking the swarm from the child's hand, it 
was lodged in safety, without inflicting a 
single sting." 

Bees are subject to several diseases; among 
which vertigo is the most remarkable. This 
causes great lassitude or weakness of the 
hind legs, an irregular mode of flying, and 
often produces death. The enemies of bees 
are numerous, among which we may mention 
birds, poultry, mice, wax-moths, slugs, hor- 
nets, wasps, ants, and spiders. Of all these, 
the most destructive are wasps, which often 
enter the hive, and as one wasp is a match 
for three bees, they devour great quantities 
of honey. 




Great attention has been paid to the rear- 
ing of bees, and it has been found advanta- 
geous to remove them occasionally from one 
place to another, so that they may obtain 
fresh pasturage. A gentleman once had a 
swarm which weighed but five pounds when 
he removed it to Dartmoor Heath ; at the 
end of two months, it was increased in weight 
no less than twenty-four pounds ! 

Bees are supposed to have some means of 
communicating with each other by sounds. 
The two horns which come out from the 
head below the eyes, called antennas, are 
supposed to answer the purpose of ears, and 
to convey sounds as well as to accomplish 
some other objects. 

Bees, as well as ants, are often seen to 
meet and cross their antennae, and then pro- 
ceed to act as if important information was 
thus imparted. When the queen of a hive 
is lost, the intelligence is spread with such 
rapidity that twenty thousand bees are in- 
formed of the fact in the space of a few hours, 
a circumstance to be explained only by the 
supposition of something like language, in 
use among them. 






CHAPTER X. 

SOMETHING WORTH KNOWING. 

I HAVE said before that, when Jack be- 
came interested in the subject, he did not 
like to leave it till he knew all about it. He 
did not, like some little people, proceed from 
one object to another, amusing himself for a 
moment. He was more like the little insect 
of which we have told so long a story the 
bee which, when k alights upon a blossom, 
scrapes out all the honey, and then stores it 
away in cells for future use. So it was with 
Jack. He studied one subject at a time, 



SOMETHING WORTH KNOWING. 59 

made himself master of the knowledge it 
afforded, packed it away in the cells of his 
memory, and then was ready to set about 
something else. 

Well, on account of this trait of character, 
he would not leave the subject of bees until 
he had extracted from his aunt Mary all she 
knew of the subject. I have already told 
you many things which he learned, but there 
are many others which I have not related. 
I must now tell you a few of these, and then 
we will proceed to something else. 

Jack had a notion, which is common to 
children, that all domestic animals were na- 
turally tame ; and he was greatly surprised to 
learn that dogs, cats, cows, hens, pigs, horses, 
and even bees, were originally wild, and had 
been brought into their present state by the 
arts of man. 

In nearly all countries there are swarms of 
wild bees, which have their abode in the forest. 
Their hive is the hollow trunk of some aged 
tree. Here they build their cells and store 
their honey. The native flowers of the forest, 
of the valley, and the mountain, of the hill- 
side and the lawn, afford them a supply of 





their delicious food, not only for the daily 
meal, during the warm season, but for the 
stores of winter. 

It is a part of the plan of the benevolent 
Creator, that every portion of the universe 
shall be filled with life, so that happiness may 
everywhere abound. Even where man has 
not yet made his way in the wilderness and 
the solitary place, there are the flowers, with 
their honey, and there, amid other insects, is 
the busy, happy bee, to gather it. How vast 
must be the field of enjoyment which the 
Omniscient eye surveys, if even the study of 
insects unfolds such a view as is here sug- 
gested. 

The hunting of wild bees is very common 
in the western states of America. In some 
parts they are so abundant, that many per- 
sons become regular bee-hunters. Their 
mode of finding the hives is curious and in- 
teresting. 

I must tell you that, when a bee sets off 
from a flower, to return to the hive, it always 
flies home in a straight line. It is one of 
the amazing instincts of this little creature, 
that, wherever it may be, it has the power of 




going to its home without deviation from a 
direct course. It may wander in the woods, 
it may sport amid the mazes of the flowery 
meadow, yet still the little creature never 
gets its head turned, never gets lost. The 
moment that its honey-bags are filled, it 
mounts upward on the breeze, and without 
hesitation, speeds like an arrow to its mark. 

The bee-hunter takes advantage of this 
curious faculty in the bee. He sees in what 
direction the insect flies, and, by following 



it, is able, at last, to discover the hive. A 
practised bee-hunter often adopts this me- 
thod. He notices the direction in which a 
bee flies from one flower, and sets down two 
or three sticks to mark the route. He then 
goes to a little distance, and starts another 
bee, and marks the route he takes. If the 


two lines tend towards each other, he con- 
cludes that the point at which they meet 
is where the hive is to be found. Judging 
of the distance by the skill acquired by prac- 
tice, the hunter proceeds to the spot, and 
seldom fails of finding the honey pretty near 
the place which his calculations have indi- 
cated. 

The scientific bee-hunter sometimes adopts 
the following method : he places some bee- 
bread, in order to tempt the bees, on a flat 
board or tile, and draws a circle around it 
with white paint. The bee always settles 
upon the edge of anything flat ; so she must 
travel through the paint to reach the edge. 
When she flies away, the white paint on her 
body enables the hunter to observe her flight, 
and her course is marked down with a pocket 
compass. The same thing is done at another 
spot, some distance from the first, and, by 
comparing the direction of the two lines, the 
situation of the nest is easily found, as it 
must be at the point where the lines would 
meet. 

We are told that, in Africa, there is a cu- 
rious little hunter of the wild bee. This is 




a small quadruped, called the honey-ratel. 
This cunning fellow seems to understand 
optics ; for, when he wishes to get a distant 
view of the bees, he holds up one of his fore 
paws, as you would your hand, in order to 
shade his eyes, and thus exclude from the 
pupil of the eye an excess of light. He 
watches the bees, particularly at sunset, for 
he knows that, like other working people, 
they are then retiring to their homes. Fol- 
lowing the route they take, he is able to find 
out the vicinity of the hive, and, when he has 
come near, his keen scent directs him to the 
honey which he seeks. 

There is, also, in the wilds of Africa, a 
little bird called the honey-guide. This crea- 
ture has the faculty of finding out where the 
honey is stored, and it is said that when he 
meets a traveller in the wilderness, he will 
flutter along before him, from branch to 
branch, and from tree to tree, and, at last, 
guide him to the hive. 

I remember to have read a story of this 
kind, a great many years ago, when I was a 
boy. It was in the beautiful tale of Alphonso 
and Dalinda, told by Madame de Genlis, in 




her Tales of the Castle. I have never for- 
gotten it; and no story that I have since 
heard has seemed half so pleasing. Does it 
not seem, indeed, almost like an ancient fairy- 
land, that travellers, wandering in the Wilds 
of Africa, should find a little bird who be- 
comes their guide to a feast of honey ? 

If I were to repeat all that aunt Mary told 
her nephew about bees, I am afraid that I 
should fill a book. So I may as well bring 
this chapter to an end, after saying a few 
words about other kinds of bees. 




I might talk a long time about the humble- 
bee, or, as some of my little readers call him, 
the bumble-bee. He is very large, and goes 
about with an air of importance, like some 
fat, bustling people. He has one habit which 




it is well not to imitate, and that is, of always 
humming a tune as he roams about. This 
bee makes his nest of moss, in the hay-field, 
usually beneath a heap of stones, or in some 
excavation of the earth. Two or three dozen 
usually assemble together, and carry on the 
various operations of the little community. 

The mason bee builds her nest in the hole 
of an old wall, or in a rock, of little pieces of 
clay. She makes four or five cells, of the 
size of a thimble, in each of which she lays 
an egg. The carpenter bee makes a nest in 
an old post, by boring a hole, in which she 
lays her eggs. 

We could tell some of aunt Mary's curious 
stories about upholstery bees and leaf-cutting 
bees, and we could say a great deal about 
their spiteful enemies, the wasps and hornets. 
But we must close the chapter by remarking, 
that all these different branches of the bee 
family live in communities, make and store 
honey, hatch their young from eggs, adopt a 
kind of despotic government, and carry a 
sharp sword sheathed in the tail. 






CHAPTER XI. 

ABOUT BUTTERFLIES. 

OUR readers must not suppose that our 
little hero had no interest in anything but 
insects. It is true that his mind being once 
engaged upon this subject, his curiosity in- 
creased with his knowledge, and for a time 
he preferred the study of insects to that of 





anything else. At one period, as I have told 
you, he was greatly interested in beetles ; 
then in spiders ; and then in bees. Finally 
he turned his attention to butterflies. You 
may perhaps be tired of my story, but you 
must hear about this. 

One beautiful summer day, he saw a large 
butterfly seated upon a flower its wings 
were splendidly marked with figures of brown, 
black, and gold. They were almost as large 
as the palm of his hand. As the insect sat 
upon the flower, he waved them up and down, 
seeming to fan the blossom upon which it 
was resting. 

Jack's first idea was to rush upon the but- 
terfly, and seize it ; but he had now acquired 
a habit of investigation. He had lost that 
instinct which leads thoughtless children to 
snatch at every new and pleasing object. He 
was no longer a mere child, but a thinking 
boy. His mind was awake, and the plea- 
sure he derived from its exercise was very 
great. 

So Jack, having approached near to the 
butterfly, paused and examined it carefully. 
He found that it had four wings, two large 





and two small ones, and that it had six legs, 
four only of which seemed to be used. 

While Jack was thus pursuing his obser- 
vations, he gradually drew nearer, until the 
alarmed insect took to flight, and with a 
wavering motion, swept across soon the ad- 
jacent meadow, until it was lost in distance. 




As Jack was in the habit of thinking about 
what he had seen, he mused upon the little 
butterfly, and then asked his aunt Mary about 
it. She was ever ready to gratify his cu- 
riosity, and answered him as foUows : 

" You must know, my dear Jack/' she said, 
"that the family of butterflies is very nume- 
rous ; it comprises not only those which pass 




under the name of butterfly, and which go 
abroad in the daylight, but those also which 
are called moths, and which fly about at 
night. 

" The butterflies have ever been regarded 
as among the most beautiful objects in nature. 
They seem almost like flowers or gems, which 
have become endowed with life, and, taking 
wings, soar away upon the breeze. Thus a 
poet speaks of them, as creatures 

' Which flutter round the jasmine stems, 
Like winged flowers, or flying gems.' 

" Who, indeed, has not observed these little 
creatures flying from flower to flower, sipping 
the nectar from each, and seeming only to 
think of the present happy moment ? And 
who has not thought how like to happy, 
heedless, children are these pretty butter- 
flies? 

"It is natural that the poets, who are 
always looking out for beautiful things, should 
seize upon such a subject as the butterfly, 
and we therefore find them often alluded to 
in poetry. Spenser thus describes one of 





these insects, and it is a very good descrip- 
tion too : 

' The velvet nap which on his wings doth lie, 
The silken down by which his back is dight, 
His broad outstretched horns, his hairy thighs, 
His glorious colours and his glistening eyes.' 

t( The moths have also attracted the atten- 
tion of the poet ; and as they are dazzled by 
a lamp at night, and frequently fly into it and 
scorch themselves to death, they have been 
often compared to giddy youth, who rush 
thoughtlessly into dangerous pleasures, and 
are thus lost for ever. 

" Butterflies and moths have not only four 
wings and six legs, and two horns or feelers, 
but they have a little tube or proboscis, with 
which they suck in the juice of flowers. 
When this is not in use, it is nicely rolled up, 
and packed beneath the head of the animal, 
under a hairy cover made for the purpose. 

(e When examined with a glass, the body 
of the insect appears to be covered with hair, 
and the fine brilliant dust upon the wings is 
found to consist of minute scales. 

" But the eyes of butterflies are, perhaps, 
their most remarkable organs. Some of them 





are simple, while others are composed of a 
collection of magnifying lenses. It is said 
that in some butterflies the eye consists of 
sixteen thousand lenses. 

te Of the butterfly tribe, some live upon the 
honey of flowers, others upon the leaves of 
plants, and others upon dead wood. Some 
of them subsist upon animal substances, and 
are very destructive to woollen cloths, furs, 
and feathers. The honeycomb-moth we have 
already mentioned as often infesting the bee- 
hive, and preying upon wax. 

" While the butterflies, in their perfect 
state, have always attracted the attention and 
excited the interest of mankind, the wonderful 
steps by which they reach their perfect state 
have not formed a less interesting subject of 
observation. They have three states of ex- 
istence : they are first eggs, then worms, and 
then winged and perfect insects. 

" The female butterfly deposits her eggs upon 
such plants as are proper to nourish the little 
caterpillars which are to proceed from them. 
The common white butterfly places hers upon 
cabbages. The tortoiseshell and peacock 
butterflies often place theirs upon nettles. 





The eggs are generally attached by a kind of 
glue to the surface of the plant. The moths 
are usually more careful, for they generally 
deposit their eggs in some concealed place, 
and wrap them up carefully in a downy sub- 
stance. 

"When the butterfly egg is hatched, it 
produces a caterpillar, which, as you know, 
is a kind of heavy worm, usually furnished 
with sixteen feet, and which feeds voraciously 
upon leaves. After changing its skin, a pro- 
cess which lasts three or four minutes and 
often proves fatal, it grows very rapidly. 
When the caterpillar has reached its full size, 
it ceases to eat, and retires to some solitary 
place to undergo its wonderful transformation. 

" Here it proceeds to form a mass of silken 
threads, which it spins from its mouth, and 
it is soon seen suspended by the tail. It now 
raises its head a little, giving a curve to its 
back. This motion is repeated until a slit is 
formed, first behind the head, and then along 
the back. At length the skin of the larva 
disappears, and the chrysalis is formed. 

ie The newly-formed chrysalis of a butterfly 
when opened, is found to contain only a mass 




of pap-like substance, in which no trace of the 
limbs of the future butterfly can be observed, 
yet the outer covering is marked with all the 
external organs of the future butterfly in a 
very short time after the skin of the caterpillar 
has been cast off. On opening the chrysalis, 
indeed, after a proper space, we shall find, 
encased in separate parts, the wings, eyes, 
and other organs of the future butterfly. 

"When the insect has remained in this 
pulpy or chrysalis state for a proper time, a 
motion may be perceived within. The skin, 
which is now thin and dry, gives way, and 
bursting into four distinct and regular pieces, 
liberates its little prisoner, whose wings 
rapidly assume their proper size, and it joins 
its companions in the air. The poet Spenser 
thus happily describes the new-born insect : 

* When he arriving, round about doth fly 
From bed to bed, from one to other border ; 

And takes survey, with curious busy eye, 
Of every flower and herb there set in order ; 

Now this, now that, he tasteth tenderly, 
Yet none of them he rudely doth disorder j 

Nor with his feet their silken leaves deface, 

But pastures on the pleasures of each place.' " 






CHAPTER XII. 

ABOUT INSECTS IN GENERAL. 

I WILL now give my readers a short chapter 
upon insects in general, extracted from aunt 
Mary's talk to her inquisitive nephew. 

Insects are so called because they appear 
to be divided into two parts, and the word 
insect means cut apart. The insect tribe are 
divided by naturalists into several orders. 
The first consists of those that never have 
wings, as the spider, flea, and louse; the 
second consists of those which have wings, 
but so cased up as not to appear when first 
produced, such as the grasshopper, earwig, 
&c. ; the third is of the moth and butterfly 
kind ; the fourth such as come from a worm 
instead of a caterpillar, as the beetle, bee, fly, 
gnat, &c. 

We are very apt to conceive that insects, 
from their small size, are very insignificant 





creatures. But this is a wrong view of the 
subject. In the first place they are exceed- 
ingly curious in their structure, and won- 
derful in their habits and instincts. A writer 
on natural history says, that if we compare 
insects with the higher ranks of nature, such 
as quadrupeds, birds, &c., we shall perceive 
in the former all the peculiarities which be- 
long to the latter ; the piercing eye of the 
lynx and the falcon, the hard shield of the 
armadillo, the splendid tail of the peacock, 
the imposing horns of the stag, the swiftness 
of the antelope, the fecundity of the hare, the 
architectural powers of the beaver, the climb- 
ing abilities of the squirrel, the gambols of 
the monkey, the swimming of the frog, the 
burrowing of the mole, and the leaping of 
the kangaroo: all these gifts are found 
amongst insects, and generally, indeed, in a 
redoubled degree. 

The amazing variety of the insect tribes 
also increases the interest of the subject. In 
the royal collection at Berlin, in Prussia, 
there are no less than twenty-eight thousand 
species or kinds of beetle. Celebrated natu- 
ralists have calculated that there are, in the 



world, five hundred thousand different kinds 
of insects, and countless myriads of each 
kind. It is said that one single insect of the 
aphis or louse tribe may be the living parent 
of six thousand millions of descendants ! 

The importance of insects may be gathered 
from another consideration. Some of them 
are very useful. The bee we have already 
noticed. We may also mention the cochineal 
insect, which exists in great numbers in the 
East Indies and in South America. It is a 
minute creature of the aphis tribe, and is 
hardly so large as a peppercorn. Yet it is 
produced in such quantities that many thou- 
sands of pounds of them are sent every year, 
in a dried state, to America and Europe. 
They contain a colouring principle, called 
carmine, which produces an intensely red 
colour. These insects are chiefly used for 
dying scarlet. In Brazil large estates are 
devoted to the cultivation of plants, for the 
purpose of breeding them. Great quantities 
are also produced in different parts of Spain. 

Among the useful insects, we may notice 
the Spanish fly, which is about three fourths 
of an inch in length, with brilliant green 





wings. They are called cantharides, and are 
used in medicine, especially for producing 
blisters. 

We might notice many other useful insects, 
but must pass them by. We might speak, 
also of the beautiful fire-flies, which appear 
in myriads during the night ; of the glow- 
worms, which 
seem to burn 
with a mild and 
steady blaze, to 
illuminate the 
darkness ; and 
the great lantern 
moth of South 
America, which is sometimes used to deco- 
rate the heads of women, and several of 
which, it is said, will answer the purpose of a 
torch. 

The surface of the earth, the waves of the 
sea, and the very atmosphere around the 
whole globe, are all the abodes of countless 
insects. Even the stalks and leaves of plants 
are filled with them. If you will take a mi- 
croscope and look into the stalks of certain 
nlants, you will see thousands of little busy, 





bustling insects there, all of them seeming to 
be in the full enjoyment of existence. Nay, 
if you will apply the microscope to a tumbler 
of water, you will see that this also is filled 
with living things. Thus the poet says : 

" Full nature swarms with life ; one wondrous mass 
Of animals * * Through subterranean cells, 
Where searching sunbeams scarce can find a way, 
Earth animated heaves. The flowery leaf 
Wants not its soft inhabitants. Secure, 
Within its winding citadel, the stone 
Holds multitudes. But chief the forest boughs, 
That dance unnumbered to the playful breeze, 
The downy orchard, and the melting pulp 
Of mellow fruit, the nameless nations feed 
Of evanescent insects. Where the pool 
Stands mantled o'er with green, invisible, 
Amid the floating verdure, millions stray : 
* * * * Nor is the stream 
Of purest crystal, nor the lucid air, 
Though one transparent vacancy it seems, 
Void of its unseen people." 






CHAPTER XIII. 

ABOUT THE WREN FAMILY AND OTHER 
MATTERS. 

I HOPE my readers are satisfied, by this 
time, that Inquisitive Jack, in pursuing the 
study of insects was not wasting his time. 
It not only gave him a great deal of pleasure, 
but he obtained from it much useful infor- 
mation. But I must tell you what I have 
before intimated, that his whole attention 
was not confined to insects. He observed 



and investigated plants and flowers, and thus 
became a botanist. He studied the habits 
and nature of birds, and thus became an orni- 
thologist; and, in short, he mastered the 
whole field of natural history. 

I will now tell you how Jack's attention 
was first attracted to birds. One day he was 
at the bottom of the garden, when he became 
interested in some insects which he saw on 
the leaves of a hop vine, which was climbing 
up a trellis close by. In order to examine 
the insects more closely, Jack took off his 
cap, and carelessly hung it on the top of one 
of the stakes which supported the trellis. 

After examining the insects for a while, 
Jack became so interested in the subject that 
he picked off some leaves of the hop-vine, 
covered with the little creatures, and carried 
them to his aunt Mary, to ask her about 
them. He forgot his cap, which was left on 
the stake ; nor could Jack recollect, when he 
wanted it, where he had left it. He was 
obliged to wear his best hat for nearly a week, 
when by chance he discovered his cap on 
the stake. He then recollected all about it, 
and ran to the trellis to take it down. But 




what was his surprise to find it tenanted by 
a fierce little wren, who flew out of the cap 
and then darted at Jack, snapping at him 
sharply with his tiny beak. 

Jack was almost frightened at the fierce- 
ness of the little bird, but after a while he 
reached up his hand and took down the cap. 
You may well believe that he was greatly 
amused to find that the little wren, with its 




companion, had begun to build a nest in it. 
They had already packed it more than half 
full of sticks, straws, and dried grass, 

At first Jack was sorry that he had robbed 
the little birds of their home; but after a 
while he got a little box and made a hole 
large enough for the wrens to go in and out, 
and set it upon the stake where the cap had 
been. For two or three days the wrens were 
very shy and would not go near the box. 






But at last one of them flew to the trellis and 
peered all about to see that there was no dan- 
ger near. In a little while he sidled along 
towards the box, making a queer noise all 
the time. By and by he ventured to alight 
upon the box, and finally he popped his head 
into the hole. Then he looked all around 
again very cautiously, and at last in he went. 
He soon came out again and stationed him- 
self upon the top of the box, and began to 
sing with all his might. I will try to put his 
song into words. 

Hi diddle ho diddle, 
Pop diddle dee, 
Here's the prettiest house 
You ever did see. 

Come hither, come hither, 
My own pretty dear, 
Here's a home for us both, 
And no danger near. 

Here's a hole for our door, 
And a room for our nest, 
So come, my sweet bird, 
And we both will be blest. 

Hi diddle ho diddle, 
Pop diddle dee, 
'T is the prettiest house 
You ever did see! 









Thus the little fellow kept singing on as if 
he would split his throat, and soon his little 
mate was seen flying along towards him. She 
alighted upon the box, and nothing could 
exceed his apparent delight. Mr. Wren then 
popped into the box, and Mrs. Wren popped 
in after him. 




Jack was an attentive observer of all these 
proceedings, and he was greatly delighted to 
find that the wrens were willing to accept of 
the box in exchange for the cap. The next 
day they began to build their nest in the box. 
It was very pleasant, indeed, to see the little 
creatures at work. They would carry up 



quite large sticks, and were very handy in 
getting them into the hole. They began their 
work by sunrise, and so industrious were 
they, that in four days the nest was finished. 
The lower part consisted of rough sticks and 
coarse straws. The upper part was finer, and 
the lining was of fine grass. In a week there 
were four little spotted eggs in the nest. The 
female wren was now rather quiet, but her 
mate was very watchful and bustling. If a 
robin or any other bird came near, he flew at 
him in the most fearless way. One day, as 
Jack was watching him, the little fellow at- 
tacked a crow that was passing by, and 
pecked him so sharply as to make the old 
fellow cry (( Caw, caw, caw," and the wren 
seeming satisfied, returned to his box. Perch- 
ing himself upon the very top of the trellis, 
he began to sing a song of triumph, shaking 
his wings all the time in great glee. 

The female wren soon began to sit upon 
the eggs, and her consort was always at hand 
when any cat or bird intruded upon his do- 
minions. He spent a good deal of his time 
in singing ; in part, I suppose, to amuse him- 
self, and in part to amuse his little lady. 




Well, after a time, there were four young 
birds in the nest, and both Mr. and Mrs. 
Wren were too busy in feeding their children 
to sing or play. They caught flies, and moths, 
and spiders, and gave them to their young 
ones, and it was amazing to see what a num- 
ber of these insects the little wrens ate, and 
it was really amusing to see how serious and 
silent the old wrens appeared to be. 

The little ones grew apace, and in a short 
time it was thought best for them to leave 
the nest. You may well believe that Jack 
was on the look-out to see the little creatures 
take to their wings for the first time. In the 
first place, one of the young birds put his 
head through the hole in the box, and looked 
all round to see if the coast was clear. It was 
amazing to see how cunning the little fellow 
was, though only a fortnight old. The old 
wrens were at a short distance, chattering at 
a great rate, and seeming to invite the little 
fellow to try his wing. At last he took cou- 
rage, leaped from the box, and alighted safely 
upon a fence at some distance. 

Now how do you think this little bird knew 
how to fly where to go and how to alight 


upon the fence? for you must remember that 
he had never been out of the box before. I 
suppose you will tell me that he was guided 
by instinct that strange power given by the 
Creator and you will tell me right. After 
the first one had departed, the others came 
out one by one, and all were successful 
in their first flight, except the last. This 
little fellow, in attempting to alight upon the 
fence, missed his footing, and fell to the 
ground. The old wrens came to him imme- 
diately, and there was a prodigious chatter- 
ing about what had happened. The little 
fellow looked very serious for a time, but at 
last he made a new effort, flew a little dis- 
tance, and reached one of the lower rails of 
the fence. The old wrens cheered him with 
their approbation, put a spider in his mouth, 
and he seemed quite happy. 

This was a great day among the wren 
family. Never was there such a bustle be- 
fore ! The little wrens kept calling out for 
something to eat ; the old wrens flew first to 
one and then to another, giving each an 
insect. 

It would take me a long time to tell all 





that happened upon this interesting occasion. 
Jack was there and saw it all, and if you ever 
meet him you had better ask him about it. 
I can only tell you, at present, that from this 
time he was very much interested in birds ; 
not as creatures to be hunted and tormented 
or killed, but as creatures that build nests, 
and have their homes, and rear their young 
ones, which they love very much, and which 
they treat with the utmost care and tender- 
ness. He looked upon them as creatures 
displaying great ingenuity, many curious ha- 
bits and wonderful instincts. He therefore 
found a great deal more pleasure in watching 
their movements and studying their charac- 
ters, than in throwing stones at them or 
shooting them. 








CHAPTER XIV. 

ABOUT THE HEN AND HER CHICKENS. 

SOON after this, Jack's attention was very 
strongly attracted by a hen and her chickens. 
Jack himself had set the hen. He was told 
that the eggs would be hatched in just three 
weeks, and so it proved. 

It is a curious thing that the eggs of hens 
should always be hatched in just three weeks, 




and I must stop to tell you a story about 
this. A man told one of bis neighbours that 
his hens always hatched of a Sunday, and he 
wondered what the reason was. " I can tell 
you/ 5 said the neighbour, " it is because you 
set them on a Sunday \" Thus you see that 
the improper conduct of a man who broke 
the sabbath was exposed. 

But to return to Jack. About the time 
the hen was to hatch, he went every day to 
see if the chickens had come forth. He could 
not help wondering at the patience of the old 
hen in sitting night and day so faithfully 
upon her eggs. He noticed that she went off 
her nest but once a day ; that she was then 
in a great hurry to get a little food and drink 
and return to her duty, as if she were afraid 
her eggs would suffer. He observed that no- 
thing could tempt her from her charge : the 
other hens were out in the fields, scratching, 
the earth, feasting on worms and insects, and 
delighting in the spring-time; but the old 
hen, forsaking their pleasures, remained upon 
her eggs. Though she was wasted by hun- 
ger, thirst, and fever, nothing could induce 
her to betray her trust : there she continued, 



obeying that voice within which we call in- 
stinct. 

On the twenty-first day of the hen's sitting. 
Jack went early in the morning to the nest, 
and his delight knew no bounds when, on 
approaching it, he saw the chickens peeping 
out from under old Biddy's feathers. The 
good mother herself seemed to be filled with 
a sort of quiet extacy. When she heard the 
gentle cries of her offspring, she endeavoured 
to hush them to rest by a few low notes, as 
much as to say 

" Hush, my dear, lie still and slumber." 

All this day the hen remained on her nest, 
and Jack gave her a little meal mixed with 
water to eat. The next day twelve of the 
thirteen eggs were all hatched, and the old 
hen, with much caution and an air of vast 
importance, set forth with her brood for a 
walk. It was interesting indeed to witness 
these ene. 

No sooner had the mother and her brood 
issued from the shed in which the hatching 
or incubation had taken place, than she be- 
gan to scratch among the leaves and grass 




with all her might. The chickens kept close 
to her side, and though but a day old seemed 
to know perfectly well what it all meant. 
They picked up the little seeds and insects, 
and swallowed them, taking care to avoid 
stones and dirt and things that are not fit for 
food. How could these little creatures know 
so much ? That is a curious question ; and 
I can only answer that God had taught them. 

The old hen went on from place to place, 
clucking all the time, and taking the utmost 
care to keep her brood together, and under 
her own immediate inspection. She made 
good use of her legs among the leaves, and 
many a grub and worm did she discover for 
her little ones. She would eat nothing herself, 
but gave everything to her chickens; except 
now and then when she came across a beetle 
or other insect too big for her infant flock, 
and then she swallowed it. 

Nothing could exceed the industry, energy, 
and watchfulness of old Biddy. For hours 
together she continued to scratch and dig for 
her young ones, as if life depended upon it. 
And all this time it was delightful to see how 
careful she was of her brood. Her head was 
bobbing up and down every instant, and her 





sharp eye turned on every side, to see if there 
was danger. Not a bird flew over the spot 
unwatched; and if it was in any degree 
threatening in its appearance, the whole flock 
were instantly driven to a place of safety. If 
a cat or dog came near they were sure to 
repent it, and learn better manners for the 
future. 

When at last the chickens had filled their 
little crops, and became weary, the old hen 
gathered them under her wings. There is 
hardly anything in nature more pleasing than 
a hen brooding her chickens. The little crea- 
tures themselves are marked with a singular 
smoothness, beauty, and look of innocence. 
Those which are most weary bury themselves 
deep in the plumage of the mother's breast, 
and there, cherished by a genial warmth, im- 
bedded in down, and every want and fear 
appeased, they fall to sleep. Those which 
are not yet so drowsy, pop out their heads 
from the mother's feathers, and look around; 
or they linger outside, and pick among the 
gravel for food; or they nibble at the old 
hen's beak ; or perchance they smooth some 
bit of their delicate plumage that is ruffled ; 
or possibly climb to the old hen's back. The 




look of innocence, peace, and happiness dis- 
played by the chickens, and the mingled as- 
pect of care and content borne by Mistress 
Biddy, afford a touching and delightful pic- 
ture. Who can witness it and not feel that 
a God of love is the author of what we call 
Nature ! 

All these things were noted by Jack, and 
after he had observed them for a long time, 
he went for his aunt. He found her, as usual, 
at work, but he could not be contented till 
she left her work, and went with him to see 
the hen and her chickens. After looking at 
them a long time, they went to the house, 
and some days after the following conversa- 
tion took place. 

J. Pray tell me, aunt Mary, why the hen 
that has chickens always keeps clucking ? 

A. That the chickens may always 
know where she is. The chickens are 
continually running about, and sometimes 
they go to a considerable distance : but as 
the hen is always clucking, they can at any 
time find her. But for this, they would in- 
evitably get lost. If the Creator had forgot- 
ten to teach hens to cluck, and had neglected 
to make any other adequate provision, a 





brood of chickens could never have been 
raised. 

J. Well, why do the chickens keep always 
chirping ? 

A. That the hen may know where they 
are. You will observe that if two or three 
chickens are wandering together, away 
from the hen, their chirping is usually 
faint and low r ; but if one is straying alone, 
his tones are loud and distinct. They seem 
to feel confidence when several are together, 
but if one is alone he feels that it is necessary 
to speak out. The clucking of the hen may 
be considered as continually calling to her 
scattered brood, Cf Here I am, chicks ! here 
I am \" And the chirping of the chickens 
may be considered as saying " Here am I, 
mother ! Here am 1 1" In this way a com- 
munication is kept up, even while the brood 
is scattered over a wide space in search of 
food. Almost all birds have natural cries, 
which answer the same purpose with them 
as the clucking of the hen and the chirping 
of the chickens, with these. 

J. Well, aunt, I see that the old hen seems 
to talk to her chickens. If a wren or a spar- 
row, or any other little harmless bird, flies 





by, the old hen says " cur-r-r-r-r \" in a mo- 
derate tone, as much as to say a look out ;" 
and so all the chicks just cast their eyes 
around, and seem to take no more notice of 
what has happened. But if a hawk appears 
in the air, and near, the " cur-r-r-r" is uttered 
in a wilder key ; the old hen steps nigh, and 
seeks a shelter, and the chickens run to her 
as if frightened out of their little wits. Now 
what I want to ask is, how do the chickens 
only two or three days old know so much 
and understand so well what their mother 
means and says ? 

A. You might as well ask, Jack, how the 
chickens know so much as to pick up seeds 
and worms when only a day old. The seem- 
ing knowledge of these little creatures, which 
is often so wonderful, is to be explained just 
as we explain the skill of the bees in building 
their cells, and the ants in constructing their 
little cities in the earth by instinct : a power 
or knowledge implanted by nature, or in 
other words by God, the author of nature. 
He gives these powers, and though we may 
see their effects, he only can explain their 
operation. But there is one thing in your 
observation upon the chickens to which I 





wish to call your attention, Jack. Did you 
ever know the old hen to call to her chickens, 
in danger, when they neglected or disobeyed 
the call? 

J. No, not that I remember. 

A. Let this, then, be a lesson to you, my 
boy : these little birds are taught obedience 
to their parent by God, and they obey. So 
God has taught children obedience : for he 
has said in the solemn commandment, " Ho- 
nour thy father and thy mother," and the 
apostle adds, " Children obey your parents 
in the Lord, for this is right/ 5 The hen, the 
parent of the chickens, is their guardian : she 
knows more than they do ; she is stronger, 
and sees further, and is wiser than they. It 
is best for the chickens, therefore, that they 
should obey her ; were they to neglect her 
counsel they would be devoured by prowling 
beasts or birds of prey. The obedience, there- 
fore, that they are called upon to exercise is 
imposed for their good. And just so is it 
with respect to children : their parents have 
more experience, knowledge, and wisdom 
than they ; they know what is best for them. 
It is, therefore, for the true happiness of chil- 
dren that they should obey their parents. 






CHAPTER XV. 

THE POULTRY-YARD. 

I SHALL not undertake to tell the whole 
history of the old hen and chickens, whose 
story is begun in the preceding chapter. If 
any of my readers meet with Jack, who is 
now a man, they can ask him and he will 
inform them how the greater part of the 
brood grew up to be pullets or cockrels, and 



made a considerable noise in the world. He 
will tell them how the former at last became 
old hens, and laid eggs, and cackled like their 
ancestors ; and how the latter, after many fun- 
ny trials, learned to crow, and finally to fight, 
as their fathers and grandfathers had done 
before them. I must tell you myself what 
Jack said to his aunt about this fighting. 

He had watched the chickens with a good 
deal of care, and he was greatly diverted to 
see the little roosters, as soon as they had 
bits of red comb on their heads, try to crow 
and fight. They really seemed like some 
smart boys we have seen, at the age of six- 
teen or seventeen, trying to smoke cigars and 
drink wine, and appearing very ridiculous, 
while they fancied that they were exciting 
the envy and admiration of all around them, 
inasmuch as they are imitating the deeds of 
those older than themselves. 

Jack laughed heartily at the ambitious 
efforts of the cockrels, as well in boasting as 
in battle, until one day he saw two of them 
fight till their heads were bloody, and one of 
them had his eyes picked out. This shocked 
him greatly, and his heart being grieved, he 





went to tell what had happened to his aunt. 
She tried to comfort him as well as she could, 
but at last he spoke to her as follows : " You 
told me, aunt Mary, that these creatures 
were governed by instinct, and that this in- 
stinct was implanted by God. You said that 
the obedience of the chickens to their parent 
was of this nature, and furnished a good ex- 
ample to children. Now I wish to ask if this 
fighting of the cockerels is not implanted by 
God, and therefore a good example to chil- 
dren?" 




His aunt smiled at the shrewdness of this 
question, and seeing it was asked in earnest 
and not scoffingly by Jack, she replied seri- 
ously in these words. " I do not suppose, 
Jack, that instinct is the only guide of ani- 
mals. It is their guide when young, but 
when they are older and know how to take 





care of themselves, then I suppose that in 
many things they act from their own feelings. 
When you were an infant you were guided 
by instinct ; but now that you are older, you 
act freely according to your choice. You 
may fight, or you may be peaceful, just as 
you please. Having arrived at this period 
you are responsible for your conduct, for it 
has pleased God to make you free. It is just 
so, I think, even with these young cockrels, 
they may either fight or let it alone. If they 
fight and get bloody noses, they only are to 
blame. And if they do fight, it is no example 
for us. God has given human beings a love 
of peace, and this should be their rule. Dr. 
Watts has said, 

" Let dogs delight 

To bark and bite, 
For God hath made them so 

Let bears and lions 

Growl and fight, 
For 'tis their nature too." 

But it is quite otherwise with human be- 
ings : even if brute animals are left to tear 
each other in pieces, mankind are taught that 
peace, kindness, and harmony are not only 





the duty but the happiness of the human 
race. 

From observing the hen and her chickens, 
Jack's attention was naturally drawn to the 
other tenants of the poultry-yard. The strut- 
ting turkey, the hissing gabbling goose, the 
waddling duck, the screaming Guinea-hen, 
and the fantastic peacock, each in turn be- 




came the subject of his investigation ; and 
each seemed to him to have a character and 
an interest peculiar to itself. If I had the 
power faithfully to paint all his feelings, and 
space to detail all his thoughts, I could make 
the story entertaining ; but I must content 
myself with a very general account of the 
matter. 

I believe there are very few persons who 



have not been often amused in pausing for a 
half hour, and noticing the various airs, man- 
ners, and customs of the feathered folks of 
the poultry-yard. The hen stealing to her 
nest, deposits her eggs, and then comes forth 
with an obstreperous cackle, to tell every 
body what she has been about. 

" Cut, 'cut cadaw cut 
Lay an egg every day, 
And have to go barefoot ! 

The restin he that is "cock of the walk" 
leads forth his bevy of hens, and when he 
finds a good fat grub, calls his favorites to 
come and feast on the delicate morsel. Like 
an old beau, he seems to prefer the happi- 
ness of the other sex to his own : his tones 
and manner are soft and insinuating, and he 
becomes the very personification of gallantry. 
While he is thus tender to the females of the 
flock, he is harsh and unsparing to his rivals 
of the masculine gender. If one of these 
comes near, he is sure to feel his spur, and 
after the rebuke to hear the shrill triumphant 
crow of the conqueror. 

The turkey-cock struts round and round, 



grating the ends of his wings upon the 
ground, and displaying his purple wattles, 
his crimson comb, and his black bristly beard, 
to the admiring gaze of the hens of his 
flock. The guinea-hen, creeping afar amid 
some thicket, comes running home with 
a terrible cry, as if thieves, robbers, and 
murderers were at hand ! The peacock, 
situated upon some conspicuous mound, 




spreads out his tail, set with a thousand 
gorgeous gems, and lost in self-admira- 
tion, appears to enjoy a sublime self-conceit. 
Amid all this exaltation, the vulgar duck is 
dabbling in the mud, only deigning to utter 
his quack, quack, quack, at intervals few and 
far between. At the same time the silent sen- 
timental goose is swimming upon the bosom 
of the muddy pool, perchance now and then 




plunging its long neck into the recesses of 
the element upon which it floats, happy if 
perchance some insect, lizard, or tadpole may 
reward its search. 

It is not to be supposed that these amus- 
ing scenes escaped the sharp observation of 
Inquisitive Jack. He indeed noticed the 
peculiarities of the several kinds of poultry : 
and had many a long conversation upon the 
subject with his aunt. We can only note the 
substance of what she told him. 

The domestic fowls are all the descendants 
of birds originally wild. The barn-door cock 
and hen came originally from Asia, and in 
some parts of India they are still to be met 
with, though their appearance is somewhat 
different from that of the tame breeds. The 
peacock came also from Asia ; and the gui- 
nea-hen from Africa. The duck is but a 
tame mallard, a bird which often is shot along 
our coasts. The honest goose is descended 
from the wild gray bird that is often seen in 
flocks in spring time, high in air, and in the 
shape of a triangle, wending their way to the 
far north, where they may breed in solitude, 
peace, and safety. 



The turkey is the only original bird of 
America among our poultry. It was found 
in the forests when the Europeans first visited 
this continent. It is less changed by domes- 
tication than any other bird ; if you were to 
see it in the wilds of the west, where flocks ot 
them are still common, you would think it 
only a timid turkey which had strayed from the 
farmyard. It is a strutting, vain, cowardly 
bird, though it is very good eating. The 
French call it dinde, and hence our word 
dandy, which means a vain, cowardly cox- 
comb. 







CHAPTER XVI. 

ABOUT BIRDS IN GENERAL. 
THE STORY OF DICK AND THE GIANT. 

OUR friend Jack having made himself 
familiar with the peculiarities of the domestic 
fowls, turned his attention to other species 
of birds. He noticed particularly those which 
seem to possess bold and confiding natures, 
such as the sparrows, that build upon the 




shrubs around the house ; the martins, that 
take up their abode in boxes which you make 
for them, and place near the eaves of your 
dwelling ; the swallows, that build in the 
barn ; and the cheerful robin, that loves to 
dwell in the apple-orchard. All these he ob- 
served with care, noticing their modes of 
building and rearing their young ; the food 
they ate, the cries they uttered, and in gene- 
ral their peculiar characteristics. From these 
Jack passed to other birds, and carefully stu- 
died them also. At last he was pretty well 
acquainted with the whole subject of birds, 
and now he observed several important things 
which I shall present to the attention of my 
readers. 

In the first place Jack was struck with ad- 
miration at the formation of birds. They are 
designed to raise themselves in the air, and 
to spend a considerable part of their time in 
that subtile element : and how wonderfully 
adapted to this purpose are they? In the 
first place a bird must have great strength, 
and yet great lightness ; and how happily are 
these united. Look at the quill of the wing, 
how strong and yet how light ! Who could 






have invented anything more admirably 
suited to rise on the breeze and cut its way 
through the air? Is there a human being 
who could make a single quill, even if the mo- 
del were placed before him ? Not one. 

And then look at the 
bones of the bird : these, 
instead of being solid, 
as in quadrupeds, are 
hollow. They are, there- 
fore, a great deal lighter 
than in other animals, 
while they are equally 
strong. And then ob- 
serve the structure of the 
bird's skeleton. What 
a wonderful and ingeni- 
ous piece of machinery. 
Look at the wing, how easily it opens and 
shuts, and thus at once lifts the bird upward 
and drives it forward, like an arrow, in its 
path. Look at the tail, destined, like the 
rudder of a ship, to direct its course : and 
how admirably it is turned this way and that, 
quick as thought, to guide the aerial voyager 
even among the intricacies of the forest ! 





Consider the feathery covering of the bird, 
designed to present a smooth surface, so as 
not to cause interruption in passing through 
the air ; and to furnish a coat as impervious 
to the water as India rubber, yet light as the 
gossamer. How wonderfully are these ob- 




jects attained ! And now let us reflect upon 
the wisdom of the Creator in designing a 
class of animals destined to soar aloft upon 
the air, and his power in accomplishing his 
purposes, as evinced in the structure of birds. 
How many millions of these beautiful crea- 
tures there are in the world ; how varied their 
forms ; how diversified the structure, habits, 


and instincts ! and yet let it be remembered 
that man, with all his art, cannot make a 
feather. 

The music of birds is a very curious and 
interesting phenomenon, not only on account 
of the admirable variety and sweetness of the 
songs they produce, but for the strength ol 
their voices. The lowing of the bull, or the 
roaring of the lion, cannot be heard at a 
greater distance than two miles, yet the little 
thrush can be heard half a mile. If quadru- 
peds had voices equal to those of birds, 
in proportion to their size, an elephant 
could easily be heard across the Atlantic 
ocean. 




The variety in the forms of birds is a sub- 
ject of great interest. How different is the 




duck, with its short legs, from the crane, 
which seems to be walking upon stilts ; the 
common barn door fowl, with its short neck, 
from the, flamingo, whose neck is almost a 
yard in length, and not half as thick as your 
wrist ! 




How different is the ostrich, which will 
carry a man ujfbn its back, from the little 
humming-bird, which seems scarcely larger 
than a humble-bee ! 

Who can look forth upon the landscape, 
and notice the feathered tribes, glancing from 
tree to tree, from bush to bush, delighting 





the eye with their pleasing forms and lovely 
hues ; and the ear with their charming melo- 
dy; and the heart with that aspect of life 
and cheerfulness which they throw over the 
meadow, forest, and field, and not lift up his 
thoughts to Heaven, and say " O Lord ! how 
manifest are thy works; in goodness and 
mercy hast thou made them all \" 

But I must not forget to say one thing 
more about Jack in this chapter. While he 
was studying the subject of birds, he was very 
fond of getting young ones, so that he might 
rear them ; he also caught several old ones, 
which he kept in cages. Now I believe that 
certain birds may be happy in cages, such as 
canaries, that are bred in confinement : but 
to catch wild birds and shut them up is very 
severe for the poor little creatures. 

Jack's aunt thought as I do about this 
matter; and one day she told her nephew 
the following story, which I commend to the 
attention of all bird-fanciers. 




Poor little Dick; what a gay blithe fel- 
low he was ! He used to go singing and 
whistling about nearly all day; he was 
always merry, and scarcely anything could 
make him sad. 

One day little Dick thought he would have 
a ramble in a large forest at some distance 
from his home. He had often been to the 
sides of it before, but it looked so dark he 
was afraid to enter. 

But Dick was more merry than usual on 
this day, for the sun shone so brightly, and 
the flowers looked so lovely, that he sang and 
whistled until he made the woods ring 
again. 

There was a clear brook running through 
the wood; and the waters looked so clean 
that Dicky, being very thirsty, stooped down 
to drink ; but at that moment he was sud- 
denly seized from behind, and found himself 






in the hands of a great, tall, 
fierce, ugly-looking giant, 
a hundred times as big as 
himself; for Dick was 
not much bigger than the 
giant's thumb. The giant 
lked at him with savage 
delight; his mouth opened 
wide, and he made a noise 
which seemed to Dick quite 
terrible. 

Dick thought the giant would have eaten 
him up alive at one mouthful ; he did not, 
however, do this, but put him into a large 
bag and carried him off. 

The poor little captive tried all he could 
to get out of the bag, but to no purpose, the 
giant held him fast. He screamed, he strug- 
gled, he tried to tear a passage the giant 
laughed, and carried him away. 
^ At last the giant came to his house a 
gloomy looking place, with a high wall all 
round it, and no trees nor flowers. When 
he got in he shut the door, and took Dick 
out of the bag. 

Dick now thought his time was come. 




When he looked round he saw a large fire, 
and before it hung four victims like himself 
roasting for the giant's supper. 

The giant, however, did not kill Dick ; he 
took him by the body, and gave him such a 
squeeze as gave him great pain ; he then 
threw him into a prison which he had pre- 
pared for him. It was quite dark, and iron 
bars were all round it, to prevent his getting 
out. 

Dick beat his head against the iron bars ; 
he dashed backwards and forwards in his 
dungeon, for he was almost driven mad. The 
giant gave him a piece of dry bread and a 
drop of water, and left him. 

The next day the "'giant came and looked, 
and found that Dick had eaten none of his 
bread; so he took him by the head, and 
crammed some of it down his throat, and 
seemed quite vexed to think that he would 
not eat. Poor Dick was too much frightened 
to eat and drink. 

He was left alone in the dark another day, 
and a sad day it was; the poor creature 
thought of his own home, his companions, 
the sun-light, the trees, and the many nice 



things he used to get to eat ; and then he 
screamed, and tried to get between the iron 
bars, and made his poor head and limbs sore 
in trying to get out. 

The giant came again, and wanted Dick 
to sing, (the same as he sung when he was at 
home,) and to be happy and merry. " Sing, 
sing, sing," said he; but poor Dick was 
much too sad to sing a prison is no place 
to sing songs in. 

The giant now seemed quite in a rage, and 
took Dick out to make him sing, as he said. 
Dick gave a loud scream, a plunge, a strug- 
gle, and sank dead in the giant's hand. 
Ah ! my young reader, poor Dick was a little 
bird, the giant was a cruel boy, and the prison 
was a birdcage. 




CHAPTER XVII. 

ABOUT QUADRUPEDS. 

I MUST tell you that Jack had now learned 
to read, and this was a source of great 
delight to him. It often happened that he 
could not go into the fields to study nature 
because the weather was stormy, or perhaps 
it was winter, and the ground was covered 
with snow. It is true that his aunt was gene- 
rally ready to answer his questions, and to 
give him information, but she could not attend 
to him always ; and besides he found that in 
books there were more exact and scientific 
accounts of birds, beasts, fishes, insects, and 
other things which interested him, than even 
aunt Mary could give. 

Thus Jack devoted a good deal of his time 
to reading, though he did not lay aside his 
habit of observing and investigating. This 
habit is very important, and I advise all my 




young friends to adopt and continue it, how- 
ever much they may read. Reading will 
indeed store the mind and make it full of 
knowledge; but observation and investiga- 
tion render that knowledge clear, distinct, 
and useful. So I wish to have every one 
follow Jack's plan, to read a great deal, but 
also to observe, think, and investigate a great 
deal. Thinking is to the mind what exercise 
is to the body, and makes it strong, sturdy, 
cheerful, and full of health. Thus my plan 
is that reading books and reading nature 
should go on together. Now I will tell you 
how Inquisitive Jack managed this. 

One day he was going through a little wood 
when he saw a squirrel running along upon 
the fence. It was of a reddish colour, and 
exceedingly nimble. It seemed almost to fly 
along the rails of the fence, and at last it 
mounted upon a tree. It then ran out upon 
the limbs and sprang to another tree. Thus 
it dashed from tree to tree almost like a bird, 
until at last it reached a large oak ; it now 
seemed to consider itself out of the reach of 
harm, and accordingly it began to chatter in 
the most extraordinary manner. There was 




something about it which made Jack feel 
that the fellow was making fun of him. He 
was annoyed at this, and picking up a stone 
he hurled it at the offender with all his force. 
The squirrel dodged the stone, ran up the 
tree a little higher, and chattered louder than 




ever. It seemed to say something like this : 
" Jack, Jack, you are a very silly fellow, get 
you gone, and leave the woods to me and my 
companions; Chickaree! Chickaree! Chick- 
aree ! Get you gone, Jack ! Chickaree \" 
While the squirrel was saying this, he flou- 




rished his long red tail, and seemed to be in 
a state of great agitation. 

When Jack went home he told his aunt 
about the squirrel ; but she did not know as 
much about squirrels as of bees, butterflies, 
and birds, and therefore she could not wholly 
satisfy his curiosity. He therefore consulted 
a book of natural history, and there he found 
a full account of the red squirrel or chickaree. 
He found it described just as he had seen it, 
and, furthermore, he learned that it was one 
of the most lively of the whole squirrel family ; 
that it lives upon nuts, is common in the 
forests of New England and the MMdle 
States, that it builds its nest in hollow tree^. 
and lays up a store of its favourite fruit against 
the winter season. 

Now you will be able to see the advantage 
of combining observation with reading. Jack 
had seen the squirrel; he had noticed its 
colour, form, air, and manners. He had, 
therefore, distinct and indelible impressions 
respecting these things ; so when he began 
to read about this squirrel it was of something 
he had seen ; something of which he had a 
lively knowledge; something associated in 




his mind with his walk through the woods, 
and the pleasure of a ramble. He read, there- 
fore, with a keen delight ; he understood what 
he read ; he remembered it all, and he was in- 
cited to go on and pursue the subject, till at 
last he had read the story of the whole squir- 
rel family red, black, and gray. 

I tell you this just to give you a specimen 
of Jack's way of combining observation with 
reading. And now I must tell you about 
another thing which I have alluded to before. 
It would seem that notions resemble boys ; 
they do not like to be alone. One idea wants 
another, and several ideas want a good many 
others. You show a child a beautiful shell : 
it gives him a new idea, and that immediately 
suggests a desire of other ideas, and so he 
asks "Who made the shell?" "Where did 
the shell come from?" "What is it made 
of ?" &c. 

I will give you another instance of the 
manner in which Jack reflected on what 
he saw. One day he was strolling through 
the fields at a distance from any house when 
he saw a large hawk pounce down upon a 
rabbit. The talons of the bird pierced the 





very heart of the little animal : it was almost 
instantly killed and borne away by the de- 
stroyer, struggling, however, in the pangs of 
death. As it was carried over his head, Jack 
noticed the four legs of the rabbit, and he 
began to reflect upon the fact that a hawk 
has two legs and a rabbit four. Having made 
this comparison, he proceeded to make 
others ; and now it struck him, for the first 




time, that the whole feathered race were two- 
legged creatures, while rabbits, squirrels, 
cats, dogs, pigs, foxes, lions, tigers, cows, 
horses, and elephants are four-legged crea- 
tures. As he was thus ruminating upon this 
matter, he happened to take up his book, 
and he there found that the animal creation 
are divided into groups, called orders, classes, 
&c. according to their formation. 



He learned that four-legged animals, called 
quadrupeds, form one great class ; that birds 
form another class ; fishes another ; reptiles 
another ; and insects still another. And in 
pursuing this subject, he found that each 
class was divided into many families or kinds ; 
among the quadrupeds he found the family 
of the cats, including old puss in the corner, 
as well as the lynx, cougar, leopard, tiger, 
and lion. He learned that among the bears 
there are many kinds, and also among the 
wolves and foxes. 

And now a new source of interest grew 
up in Jack's mind : this classifying of ani- 
mals became intensely interesting. He loved 
to compare one kind with another ; to note 
the resemblances and differences ; to observe 
the influence of climate, and see how nature 
had diversified her works so as to adapt every- 
thing to the purposes it was designed to ac- 
complish. Thus at every step his knowledge 
increased, and became more permanently 
fixed in his mind ; while the interest he took 
in study was enhanced even in a greater 
degree. 







CHAPTER XVIII. 



GEOLOGY. 

JACK was one day passing by a place where 
some men were digging to make a road 
through a steep hill. He stopped to watch 
them for a while without any particular ob- 
ject in view ; but his attention was soon fixec 1 
by his observing that amongst the earth 
thrown down there were great numbers of 
shells, most of them broken, and here and 
there a tooth and a piece of bone. He imme- 
diately set to work to find the most perfect 
shells he could, and the best teeth, to show 
to his aunt, and soon filled his pockets. 

As he went towards home, and thought on 
the subject, it appeared to him more and 
more strange that these shells should exist 
in a place far removed from the sea, or any 




lake or river, and in the midst of a large hill. 
He could not in any way imagine how they 
got there, and he hastened home, impatient 
to ask his aunt for a solution of the diffi- 
culty. 

His aunt told him that the facts which he 
had observed were indeed very wonderful, 
though not singular, and that what she had 
to say on the subject would not make him 
wonder less, though it might increase his 
knowledge. She told him that there are very 
few spots on the surface of the earth which 
do not bear decided marks of having been 
once covered by the sea, and that there is 
good reason to believe that the whole was 
once under water. To no other circumstance 
can be ascribed the existence of shells on the 
highest hills, as well as in the valleys, and far 
beneath the surface. 

" But what are these teeth ?" said Jack. 
" They are shark's teeth," replied his aunt ; 
"in some parts they are found in much 
greater abundance than where you discovered 
them." 

" But how is it that I could discover none 
of the bones of the fish ?" inquired Jack. 



"Because/' said his aunt, "the teeth of 
animals are covered with a very hard and 
durable enamel, which often preserves them 
long after the bones have decayed; and be- 
sides this, the bones of sharks are very soft, 
being rather gristle than bone." 




" Amongst these shells/' said Jack, " I 
think there are some such as I have never 
seen before." 

"Very likely," rejoined his aunt; " for one 
of the most interesting points in the history 
of the animals of which we find the teeth, 
bones, and shells in the strata of the earth is 
that many of them are different from any 
which now exist on the surface of the globe. 
I will show you some pictures of some of 
the most remarkable of these creatures, and 
their skeletons." 





" But how," said Jack, " can any one make 
out the form of an animal merely from its 
bones, so as to draw a picture of it ; and the 
odd-looking creature you have shown me 
has a fleshy-looking trunk like an elephant, 
which of course must have perished?" 




" Yes," said his aunt, " it has perished : 
and nothing is known of the creature but 
what has been gathered from its bones. But 
I will tell you how this has been done, and 
you will then see that we have something 
like certain ground to go upon. Anatomists 
compare the teeth of one animal with the teeth 
of another, and the bones of one with the 
bones of another. From this they find that 





certain kinds of teeth and a certain form of 
bones are always connected with certain par- 
ticulars in the outward form. Thus a very 
strong short neck, with the bones of a pecu- 
liar form are found in the elephant, and are 
plainly required to support his large head 
with the heavy trunk attached. A similar 
neck in the animal I showed you has led ana- 
tomists to conclude that he also had a trunk, 
and the conjecture is confirmed by the form 
of the skull, the tusks of which you will see 
grow downwards instead of upwards like 
those of the elephant. 




This skull may be seen in the British Mu- 
seum : the animal is called the Dinotherium, 






and must have been larger than any land 
animal now living, the body being eighteen 
feet in length. 




" This is the skeleton of the Megatherium, 
an animal of the sloth kind, but larger than 
an ox, and, as it is supposed, covered with 
a hard covering, something like that of the 
armadillo. You will observe his peculiar 
feet, which are the most striking point in 
which he resembles the sloth." 



" But what is this odd-looking bird ?" said 
Jack. 

" It is the Dodo, a bird of the duck tribe, 
which was found by some early 
Dutch navigators in the island 
of Mauritius, nearly four hun- 
dred years ago. Several stuffed 
specimens of it were brought to 
Europe, but of these only a few 
fragments now remain, and the 
race of the bird itself has become quite ex- 
tinct in Mauritius. 





Here is a picture of a head and foot 
preserved in the Museum at Oxford." 





" This represents the skeleton of a very 
large kind of deer or elk, called the Gigantic 
Elk, and well it deserved the name, for it was 




considerably larger than the largest horse, 
and, as you perceive, had very broad spread- 
ing horns. Its remains are found abundantly 
in Ireland. 





"This is the picture of the bones of a large 
sort of bat, more than a foot in length, with 




a long neck like a swan, and a large long 
head something resembling that of a croco- 
dile. 




"This sketch shows the position of the 
bones when the creature was flying, and 




from it you may judge something of its 
remarkable appearance when alive. 

(( The next is the skeleton of a crocodile, 
is it not ?" asked Jack. 

" No/ 5 said his aunt, " it bears very little 
resemblance to a crocodile, except in its 
general form. It is called the Icthyosaurus, 
or fish-lizard. 

t( It presents a very curious 
combination of structure : there 
is the back bone of a fish, and 
the fins of a seal or whale, the 
eye of an eagle, and the mouth 
and tail of a lizard/ 5 

"But how can you know 
anything regarding its eye, 15 
said Inquisitive Jack. 

" The socket of the eye was 
fitted with certain small bones, 
still preserved in the skeleton, 
as you may see in the picture, 
which were drawn together, or 
relaxed by means of muscles, 
so as to render the eye more 
or less convex, to enable the 
animal to see things with equal 





clearness whether they were near or far off. 
You can see an illustration of the power 
which this arrangement must have given 
him, if you compare the different focus of 
a very convex magnifying glass with one that 
is less so." 

The Plesiosaurus, or animal 
like a lizard, was something 
like the Icthyosaurus, but it 
had a more slender body and a 
very long neck, with a small 
head. The neck contains many 
more bones than that of any 
creature living, and is therefore 
different from the neck of the 
swan, or of the curious bat-like 
creature that I showed you the 
picture of. There are several va- 
rieties of plesiosaurus : opposite 
is the picture of one less slen- 
der in its form than the other, 
and with the bones in the posi- 
tion in which they were origi- 
nally found." 
Jack looked at the pictures for a long time, 
and was so much interested with what he 




saw that he immediately determined on stu- 
dying geology. It semed to him as if a new 
world had been opened to his investigation ; 




and to this world underground he soon 
began to apply his old habits of observing 
and thinking, and seldom passed a gravel-pit 
or a cliff without finding something that 
added to his stock of knowledge. 






CHAPTER XIX. 

ABOUT POETRY AND OTHER THINGS. 

I HAVE now told you how Jack became a 
naturalist, so far as to understand animals. 
I might proceed and tell you how he learned 
a great deal about plants and flowers, and 
thus became a botanist. But I suspect my 
readers have heard enough on this part of 
his history. I will now tell a little about 
the manner in which Jack became acquainted 
with some other things. 

One winter's day, as he and his aunt were 
sitting by a pleasant fire, Jack had been 


reading in a book of poetry. After a while, 
he laid down the book, and asked his aunt 
why some things are told in poetry and some 
in prose. To this the good lady replied as 
follows : 

te I must tell you in the first place, my boy, 
that prose is the language of common speech, 
such as I am now talking to you. But there 




are certain thoughts and feelings that are too 
fine and beautiful for prose. If these were 
expressed in a common way their beauty 
would be lost. I will try to make you un- 
derstand this by a story. 

" There were once some flowers growing in 
a garden, but they were mixed with other 
plants, such as peas, beans, potatoes, beets, 
and other things. These had, therefore, a 


common appearance, and no one noticed their 
beauty. At length the gardener took up 
these flowers, and set them out in a nice bed 
of earth which he had prepared for them. 
This situation permitted their bright colours 
and fair forms to be seen, and they therefore 
attracted the attention of every person who 
passed by. 

" Everybody admired them, and those who 
overlooked them as common things when 
planted in a kitchen garden were ready to 
acknowledge their beauty and praise their 
fragrance, when they were flourishing in a 
flower garden. Thus, you perceive, that I 
compare fine thoughts to flowers ; however 
beautiful they may be, they would strike us 
less and please us less if they were presented 
in a common way. They want a situation 
appropriate to them, and then we shall per- 
ceive and feel their full beauty. 

"Poetry, then, consists of beautiful thoughts 
in beautiful language, and may be compared 
to a bed of flowers, with graceful forms, 
bright colours, and sweet fragrance. Prose 
consists of common thoughts expressed in 
common language, and may be compared to 



a garden filled with things that are useful 
rather than beautiful, such as beets, potatoes, 
and cabbages." 

Jack listened with great attention to what 
his aunt had been saying, and then he 
rubbed his head as if he were puzzled, and 
did not exactly understand her. He then 
spoke as follows. 

" Well, aunt, all this is very strange that 
you have been telling me. I thought poetry 
was only a string of verses, with rhymes at 
the end of them, such as hop top, butter mut- 
ter, eater Peter, &c. I have made some 
verses myself, and I thought these were 
poetry, and pretty good poetry too." 

" Well," said his aunt, " let me hear your 
verses, and I will then tell you whether they 
are poetry or not/' " I will repeat them all,*' 
said Jack, " if you will promise not to laugh." 
" Go on," said his aunt, " I shall not laugh if 
I can help it." Jack then proceeded as 
follows : 

" The dog sat down to eat his bone, 
The cat went out to walk alone, 
The bird was singing on the bough, 
The bell was tinkling on the cow. 





The leaves were all upon the trees, 

The grass was on the ground, 
The butterfly was on the breeze, 

A pint doth weigh a pound. 

A ghost was walking in a lane, 
'T was night, and all was still, 

A fly was on the window-pane, 
The pigs did want their swill ! 

When he got to this point, his aunt Mary 
laughed outright, aud Jack declared that she 
had broken her promise, and he would not 
repeat another verse. He sat for some time 
with a pouting and offended air. At length 
his aunt went on to speak in the following 
manner: " I hope you will excuse me, dear 
Jack, for laughing, but I could not well help 
it. Your idea of poetry is like that of other 
children, and I think your first attempt is 
quite as successful as that of most persons. 
But I will tell you a little more about poetry, 
and then you will, perhaps, understand the 
subject better. 

" Almost all nations, let them be ever so 
ignorant, have some poets amongst them. 
The first poetry they make is in praise of 
what they see, the sun, and moon, and stars ; 
the trees, and flowers, and the rivers. 




" Then they begin to compare things to- 
gether that are beautiful ; they say that the 
cheeks of a blooming young girl are like the 
rose, and that her eyes are as blue as the 
sky. They compare man to a tall, well- 
formed tree, and they go on rinding out a 
likeness in a great many things that at first 
we hardly think of as resembling each other. 
When they see a person in a passion, they 
say he is like the ocean in a storm. The 
more power they have of discovering these 
resemblances, the better poets they are. Chil- 
dren very often think, when they make 
rhymes, such as hat bat, hop top, &c., that 
they are making poetry, but they are making 
nothing but rhymes. 

" It is very pleasant to have rhymes at the 
end of every line of poetry ; but the poetry 
does not consist in rhymes. I will repeat to 
you some Hindoo poetry, that was translated 
from the Hindoo language ; perhaps it was 
in rhyme before it was translated. 

" 'As a tree is the lord of the forest, even so is man ; his 
hairs are as leaves, his skin is like the outer bark. 

" Through the skin flows blood ; through the rind of 
the tree flows sap : when a man is wounded blood gushes 
forth, as the sap from a tree that is cut. 





" ' His muscles are like interwoven fibres ; the membrane 
round his bones is the inward bark ; his bones are as the bard 
pieces of wood within ; their marrow is composed of pith. 

" * Since the tree when it is cut down springs again still 
fresher from the root, from what root springs man, when be 
is cut down by the hand of death? 

" ' He springs no more upon earth, but he lives with God 
>n heaven, who is perfect wisdom, perfect happiness.' " 

When his aunt Mary had recited these 
verses of poetry without rhymes. Jack 
asked her why rhymes were ever used. To 
this she answered in the following words. 
" Rhymes, my dear Jack, are like music, 
which, you know, is pleasant to the ear. Do 
you not remember a song, a prayer, or story, 
that is in rhyme, better than one that is not ? 
Why is this? Because it strikes the ear 
pleasantly, and touches the heart as if it were 
the voice of some sweet friend. I have often 
compared poetry, in my own mind, to one 
whom we love ; one whose voice is dearer 
than any other; one who speaks to us in 
sweet and musical words, that cling to the 
memory, and linger with us through life." 

" Well, aunt/' said Jack, his face bright- 
ening up, "I think I understand it now. 
Whenever I think of poetry, I shall think of 




you. You shall be my muse ; and I know 
that I shall never want for bright thoughts, 
and pleasant sentiments, if I have such a 
source of inspiration. But, dear aunt, as you 
have recited some poetry without rhymes, 
will you not recite some with rhymes V 9 t( I 
will, with great pleasure/ 5 said she, and ac- 
cordingly she repeated the following verses : 




!< One morn in May, a maiden did say 
To a bird on a tree, ' Come go with me ! 
Come little bird, come quick to my home, 
I will give you to eat everything sweet. 
Sugar and cake I will save for your sake ; 
Melon and plum, you shall have some ; 
A peach and a pear, and everything rare ; 
Some straw for your nest, and what you like best.' 




Thus the little girl said, as she heaved a deep sigh, 
But the bird shook his head, and thus made reply : 
' I thank you, my dear, but I would rather live hero, 
The skies they are fair, and I love, the fresh air ; 
The trees they are green, and I sit like a queen, 
On a branch as it goes while the pleasant wind blows. 
I have more on my table to eat than I am able, 
For the very large field my dinner does yield. 
But come from your book, with a good-humoured look, 
When with care you have read, and your lesson is said ; 
Sit under the tree, with your sewing, by me, 
And this afternoon I will sing you a tune.' " 

Having repeated these lines, the lady told 
Jack that she would repeat some beautiful 
poetry in blank verse, which is poetry without 
rhyme, but with the words arranged in a cer- 
tain musical order, and in lines containing 
ten syllables each. 



THE ARK AND DOVE. 

IN THE FOLLOWING LINES, A MOTHER IS TELLING HOW SHE 
TOLD THE STORY OF THE ARK AND DOVE TO HER LITTLE 
GIRL. 

" ' Tell me a story, please,' my little girl 

Lisped from her cradle. So I bent me down 
And told her how it rained, and rained, and rained, 
Till all the flowers were;-covered, and the trees 
Hid their tall heads, and, where the houses stood, 
And people dwelt, a fearful deluge rolled ; 





Because the world was wicked, and refused 
To heed the words of God. But one good man, 
Who long had warned the wicked to repent 
Obey and live, taught by the voice of heaven, 
Had built an ark ; and thither, with his wife 
And children, turned for safety. Two and two, 
Of beasts, and birds, and creeping things, he took, 
With food for all ; and when the tempest roared, 
And the great fountains of the sky poured out 
A ceaseless flood, till all beside were drowned, 
They in their quiet vessel dwelt secure. 
And so the mighty waters bare them up, 
And o'er the bosom of the deep they sailed 
For many days. But then a gentle dove 
Scaped from the casement of the ark, and spread 
Her lovely pinion o'er that boundless wave. 
Nor face of man, nor living thing, she saw ; 
For all the people of the earth were drowned, 
Because of disobedience. Nought she spie<l 
Save wide dark waters, and a frowning sky, 
Nor found her weary foot a place of rest. 
So, with a leaf of olive in her mouth, 
Sole fruit of her dear voyage, which perchance 
Upon some wrecking billow floated by, 
With drooping wing, the peaceful ark she sought. 
The righteous man that wandering dove received, 
And to her mate restored, who, with sad moans, 
Had wondered at her absence. Then I looked 
Upon the child, to see if her young thoughts 
Wearied with following mine. But her blue 63 e 
Was a glad listener, and the eager breath 
Of pleased attention curled her parted lip. 
And so I told her how (he waters dried, 


And the green branches waved, and the sweet buds 
Came up in loveliness, and that meek dove 
Went forth to build her nest, while thousand birds 
Awoke their songn of praise, and the tired ark, 
Upon the breezy breast of Ararat 
Reposed, and Noah, with glad spirit, reared 
An altar to his God. 

" Since, many a time, 
When to her rest, ere evening's earliest star, 
That little one is laid, with earnest tone, 
And pure cheek prest to mine, she fondly asks, 
' The Ark and Dove.' " 

Such is the story of the Ark and Dove. 
You will find it beautifully told in the Bible, 
in the eighth chapter of Genesis. I wish you 
would read it there, and then look at this 
beautiful poetry again. 







CHAPTER XX. 

ABOUT TRUE STORIES AND FICTITIOUS 
STORIES, FABLES, FAIRIES, &C. 

WHEN his aunt had repeated the verses in 
the preceding chapter, Jack remarked that 
they were very pretty, and that he liked them 
much. " But/ 5 said he, "how is it, aunt, 
that the little girl, in the lines about the girl 
and bird, spoke to the bird, and the bird an- 
swered her? I did not know that a bird 
could understand poetry, or could compose 
verses. 55 

u I am very glad to hear you make this 
remark, 55 said aunt Mary, " for it shows that 
you reflect upon what I tell you. The little 
story about the girl and the bird is not a fact, 
but it is what we call a fictitious story. 55 

" But is it right, 55 said Jack, " to tell stories 
that are not true ? I thought it was wicked 
to tell falsehoods." 




"It is wicked, my dear nephew, to tell 
falsehoods, but do you know what a falsehood 
is ?" " I suppose it is something that is not 
true," said Jack. 

" Not exactly so,' 5 replied his aunt ; " any 
attempt at deception is a lie. If you try to 
make a person believe what is not true, either 
by look, word, or deed, you attempt to deceive 
him, and are thus guilty of falsehood. Now 
this is very wicked ; but when I tell you a 
fictitious story, my design is only to amuse 
and instruct you, not to deceive you, by 
making you really believe that what I tell 
you has actually taken place. Do you now 
understand why a fictitious story is not a 
falsehood 1" 

" Yes,' 5 said Jack, " because it is not in- 
tended to deceive. But, aunt, I want to ask 
you a question. The other day I was looking 
for my pet lamb, which had got out of the 
field and gone away. I was looking for it 
along the public road, when I met Bill Hider. 
I as"ked him if he had seen my lamb, and he 
said yes. I asked him which way it had 
gone, and he pointed along the road to the 
east. Now I afterwards found out that the 



lamb had gone the other way, and Bill Hider 
knew it. He pointed the wrong way just to 
deceive me, and give me trouble. Was not 
that a lie?" "Yes/' said aunt Mary, "just 
as much a lie as if he had spoken it with his 
lips.' 




" Well, I thought so," said Jack, " and I 
told Bill Hider so afterwards, and he said it 
w r as not a lie, because he only pointed his 
finger. And now, aunt, I want to ask you 
another question. Do not you remember 
that you gave me a large apple the day before 
yesterday ?" 

"Yes." 

t( Well, I put it under my desk,- at school, 
and left it there, while I came home to dinner. 
When I got back, it was gone. I asked Bill 





Hider if he knew what had become of it. He 
did not say anything, but he just opened his 
mouth, and put his finger down his throat, 
and then pointed to Seth Simple, as much as 
to say that Seth had eaten it. I afterwards 
found out that Bill Hider had eaten it him- 
self. Now was not it a falsehood in him to 
try to deceive me in this way. 5 ' 

" Certainly it was, and a very wicked one, 
because his object was to conceal his own 
theft, and make his innocent companion ap- 
pear to be guilty of the crime. Let this little 
incident, my dear Jack, teach you an impor- 
tant lesson. Falsehood is usually a mere 
artifice to conceal some other crime. It is, 
therefore, a dangerous vice, and one who 
practises it is sure to be despised." 

The next day, after the conversation I have 
just related, as soon as Jack met his aunt in 
the breakfast room, and bade her good morn- 
ing, he said to her, that he had been thinking a 
great deal about what she had told him the 
night before. "But/' said he, " I have one more 
question to ask you; pray, what is a fable ?" 

" A fable," said his aunt, " is a little story, 
in which dogs, cats, foxes, horses, trees, 





plants, and flowers, are imagined to think and 
speak like human beings. The object of a 
fable is to impress some useful lesson upon 
the mind.'* 




" Well, aunt," said Jack, " I am much 
obliged to you for your answer. You call 
me Inquisitive Jack, because I ask so many 
questions ; but I think it is the best way in 
the world. Some boys are ashamed to ask 
questions, for they say it makes them appear 



ignorant, but I had rather appear ignorant 
than be ignorant. Do you know, aunt, that 
I have puzzled myself a hundred times with 
the question, whether animals that we read 
of in fables really do think and act as they 
are said to do. Now, I might have saved 
myself all this trouble, and confusion of mind, 
had I sooner asked you the real meaning of 
a fable." 

ee You are quite right, my boy," said his 
aunt; "young people ought not to be ashamed 
to ask reasonable questions, and older people 
should always be willing to answer them." 

" That is very true, aunt," said Jack, " and 
I hope you will be as good as your word, and 
answer all my questions ; and as you are so 
good to me, I should like to do all I can to 
repay you. Should not you like me to tell 
you a fable, aunt T 9 

To this inquiry the lady nodded assent, 
and Jack then repeated the following fable 
of a fish-pond, the object of which is to per- 
suade everybody that it is much better to 
live m peace than in strife. 





"There was once a beautiful little fish- 
pond, surrounded by hills. The water was 
so bright and clear, that you could see the 
white pebbles at a great depth, as they lie 
at the bottom. Along the border there were 
trees of various kinds ; they hung over the 




water, and cast their shadows upon its sur- 
face. There were also beautiful flowers 
around the pond ; some of them standing in 
the edge of the \vater, and some of them 
standing upon the banks, but stooping over, 
as if to take a peep into the water, and see 
their bright forms reflected there, as in a 
mirror. 

" Well, in this beautiful pond lived a great 




many fishes. There were little, short fishes, 
partly of a brown and partly of a golden 
colour, called bream ; and there were perch, 
also of a golden colour, marked with black 
streaks, and of a long, slender form. And 
there were shiners, that glistened like pieces 
of money, and there were bull-heads, with 
sharp horns, and pike, and many other kinds. 
Now these fishes lived in a very beautiful 
place, and, as they had plenty to eat, they 
were perfectly happy. 

t( When the weather was cold, they went 
to the middle of the pond, where the sun 
shone and made the water warm ; and when 
it was too hot, they cooled themselves in the 
shadows of the trees and rocks. A great part 
of the time they spent in playing ; sometimes 
they would chase each other about, seeming 
to glide along as easily as the birds glide 
through the air. Sometimes you might see 
them in the clear water, sporting about among 
the sedges and rushes that grew in the margin 
of the pond ; and then again you might see 
them jumping up to catch the bubbles or in- 
sects that floated on the top of the water. 

" Now this was a pleasant life, and nothing 





could be happier than these little fishes. 
But at length they began to quarrel with 
each other. The bream insisted that one 
part of the pond belonged to them, while the 
perch declared that it did not belong to the 
bream, but to themselves. While the perch 
and the bream were thus at strife, the bull- 
heads and the pike also could not agree. 
Their difficulty arose from a pretence on the 
part of the bull-heads that they were much 
handsomer than the pike. This was con- 
sidered very insulting, and was bitterly re- 
sented by all the pike family, old and young, 
boys and girls, men and women. 

" Dissention thus begun; it grew worse and 
worse, until all the inhabitants of the pond 
were soon involved in the quarrel, one way 
or another. Even those who had nothing to 
do with it at first, soon became parties, and 
at length the eels, and frogs, and tadpoles got 
to fighting about it. In this way, the happy 
little people of the pond became very miser- 
able. Instead of gliding about in peace or in 
play, they now met only to struggle and 
fight, and very often it happened that some 
of them were killed in the fray. 




"Now I should have told you that this pond 
belonged to a rich man, who, so long as the 
fishes lived together in peace, allowed it to re- 
main ; but, now that they were perpetually 
quarrelling, he determined to destroy it. So 
one day he had a drain cut in such a manner 
as to let off the water of the pond. In this 
way it was entirely drained, and all the little 
fishes perished. Bream, bull-heads, perch, 
pike, eels, frogs, and tadpoles, all were left 
upon the ground, and died by the heat of the 
sun. Such was the fate of these fishes. As 
long as they lived in peace, they were happy, 
but, when strife came among them, their hap- 
piness ceased; and finally, as their quarrelling 
continued, they were entirely destroyed/ 5 

When Jack had finished the fable, his aunt 
spoke as follows : " This is a very good 
fable, Jack, and I think it shows the folly of 
quarrelling very well. I think you can now 
see that, although a fable is a fictitious story, 
its object is to inculcate truth, and not to de- 
ceive. When you read a fable or a fictitious 
story, you should always try to find out the 
truth that is intended to be conveyed." 






In the evening, when Jack and his aunt 
were seated by the fire, the boy began, as 
usual, by asking a question. 

"You have told 
me, aunt, about 
fables and fancy 
tales, said he, now 
I want to know 
something about 
fairies and fairy 
tales ; are there 
really such crea- 
tures as fairies?" 

" No, Jack/' 
said the lady, 
u fairies are mere 
beings of imagi- 
nation. People 
used to believe in 
their actual exist- 
ence : they were 
thought to be 
lively little people 


who had the power of passing from place to 
place, with the quickness of thought. Some of 
them were imagined to be good, spending 
their time in watching over kind and vir- 
tuous people ; others were fancied to be evil 
spirits, busily engaged in working out mis- 
chief against mankind. 

ce Ignorant people used not only to believe 
in the existence of fairies, but they fancied 
that they often saw them dancing by the 
moonlight, in some grassy valley, or tripping, 
light as air, over the rippling surface of the 
moonlit lake. There have been a great many 
tales told about fairies, most of which serve 
to amuse the fancy, but they are seldom as 
useful as those homely fables which convey 
some moral truth to the heart. I will, how- 
ever, tell you a fairy story from which you 
may draw some instruction. 

" In a pleasant valley, between two hills, 
there once lived a beautiful fairy, by the name 
of Echo. The place was very pleasant, for a 
bright river swept through the valley, beneath 
trees with long branches overshadowing its 
waters. 

" There were many flowers scattered along 



its banks, some with graceful forms, and 
others with brilliant colours. The air was 
filled with sweet perfumes, and the voice of 
musical birds was heard on every side. It 
was no wonder that in a place so pleasant the 
pretty fairy should have chosen her abode, 
and that she was ever found at home. 

" But one of her peculiarities was this, that 
whenever a person spoke in a loud voice in 
the valley, the sound was caught up by the 
fairy, and repeated to the rocks and hills 
around. 

" Now it happened that there was a little 
boy who lived near this valley, who was very 
passionate. One day, he went to this place 
where Echo lived, with one of his companions, 
and for a long time was busily engaged in 
picking flowers along the margin of the little 
stream. He was so intent upon this, that he 
wandered away from his playmate, and at 
length got lost amid the trees and shrubs. 
He now became alarmed, and, not being able 
to see his companion in any direction, he 
called for him in a very angry tone of voice. 
The fairy immediately imitated the sound, 
and repeated it to the woods, hills, and waters 




of the valley. The little boy thought at first 
that this was his companion, mocking him, 
and it made him very angry. He then called 
out louder than before, and used some very 
harsh expressions, finishing with the word 
6 rascal.' These were all faithfully repeated 
by the fairy, and particularly the last word, 
which was uttered again and again, until even 
the most distant rocks and woods seemed to 
repeat it. 

" This startled the boy very much, for it 
appeared all at once that everything around, 
even the woods and hills, were calling him a 
rascal. 
I think you are very rude,' said he, 
spitefully. ' You are very rude !' said the 
fairy, in return. c Do not insult me,' said 
the boy. *Do not insult me !' said the fairy. 
By this time, the boy was out of all patience, 
and he began to cry. At that moment, a 
pretty little lady came out from a bunch of 
bushes, close by, and spoke to the boy as 
follows : 

" e Listen to me, lad ; you have got lost in 
these woods, and, instead of blaming your- 
self, you get angry at your innocent com- 





panion. You are very silly, but I will be 
your friend. 

" * You have been brought here by my di- 
rection, that I might teach you a useful 
lesson. You are accustomed to use angry 
words, and I wish to show you that these 
beget anger in others. If you call your play- 
mate a rascal, he will call you a rascal in re- 
turn. Speak gently and kindly, my boy, to 




your friends, and you will then beget love in 
the hearts of all ; but if you are fierce, loud, 
and passionate, remember that there is an 
echo in the hearts of those around you, that 
will return back to your ears the saucy words 
you have uttered, as truly as the Echo of the 




valley will repeat the loud words spoken in 
her ear/ 

" Saying this, the little fairy took hold of 
the boy's hand, led him out of the wood, and, 
pointing towards his home, vanished into air/' 

Now, although this is a fictitious story, and 
though there is no such little woman as this 
imaginary fairy in the woods, still there is 
such a thing as an echo. 

This, however, is a mere sound, caused by 
a shaking or vibration of the air ; but it often 
seems to repeat your words, two or three 
times over, particularly if you speak loud. 
Such echos are very common among the hills 
and valleys. 






CHAPTER XXL 

ABOUT DWARFS, GIANTS, ETC. 

WHEN his aunt had finished this story of 
Echo the fairy of the valley, Jack said he 
was very much pleased with it, and he thought 
it a very useful story. u It will always make 
me remember," said he, " not to call hard 
names ; for, if I should do so, I should ex- 
pect that Echo would get into the mouth of 
the one I spoke to, and send me back words 
as rough as my own. 

" Really, aunt," continued the boy, "I am 
delighted with the idea of fairies, skipping 
about by moonlight, and dancing upon the 
green grass. What a happy life they would 
lead, gliding like humming-birds, from place 
to place, and always choosing their abodes in 
fragrant valleys, and along the flowery banks 
of sparkling rivers ! I am sorry that these 
fairy tales are not true. But, aunt, I have 
heard of giants, and dwarfs, and genii, and 




other beings that are imagined to have great 
power; are none of the tales about these 
beings true ? 

" Most of these tales are mere fictions, and 
have no other object than to please the imagi- 
nation, or, like fables, to impart moral instruc- 
tion. But we read of giants in the Bible, 
and in the early ages of mankind there seem 
to have been races of men who were twice as 
large as those of the present day. You re- 
member the story of Goliath an d David, in 
the 1 7th chapter of the first book of Samuel." 
" I remember it very well/* said Jack, " and 
it is a very pleasant story. You have told it 
to me, aunt, several times ; but I wish you 
would repeat it again, for I am never tired of 
hearing Bible stories." 

"Very well," said his aunt, " I will tell it 
to you, and with the more pleasure, because 
you seem interested in the Bible. It is indeed 
the best of all books ; it is not only full of 
interesting stories, but every page is calcu- 
lated to make us wiser and better. There is 
no surer way to be happy than to study the 
Bible, and obey its commands. I will now 
tell you of David and Goliath. 


"About three thousand years ago, the 
nation, called the children of Israel, were 
governed by a king, called Saul. Near them 
lived a nation of Philistines, who were a war- 
like people, and took every occasion to do 
mischief to the Israelites. 

f( Well, once upon a time, these two na- 
tions, being engaged in war, had drawn out 
their armies for battle. The Philistines co- 
vered one side of a mountain, and the Israel- 
ites another, with a valley between them. 
There were a great many thousand men on 
each side, and these were armed with spears, 
and shields and battle-axes. 

"The two armies were so near, that they 
could see each others' tents covering the 
slopes of the hills. Thus the armies were 
pitched against each other, preparing for the 
hour of battle. But one day a strange sight 
appeared. An enormous giant came forth 
from the Philistine camp, armed with a coat 
of mail, a cap of brass, and a mighty spear. 
Before him went a man, bearing a shield. 
The name of this giant was Goliath. 

" When the Israelites saw him they were 
amazed, and stood back in fear. Goliath 



then lifted up his voice, and called upon the 
Israelites to send their strongest man to fight 
with him. But no one of the Israelites dared 
to fight with the giant. 

" The next day Goliath again made his ap- 
pearance in the valley, and again challenged 
the Israelites as before. This was done morn- 
ing and evening for forty days, and Saul could 
find no one among all his soldiers who would 
venture to do battle with Goliath. 

" But at length an event happened which 
attracted the attention of both armies. 
Goliath had appeared, as usual, in the valley, 
and uttered his haughty challenge. He was 
talking very loud, when a young Israelite, 
by the name of David, was seen at no great 
distance. He was without helmet, or shield, 
or spear, and, as compared with the giant, 
was a mere stripling. 

"He, however, lifted up his voice, and 
answered to the challenge of Goliath. ( I 
come not/ said he, 'in my own strength, but 
I come in the name of that God whom we, 
the people of Israel, worship, and he will 
deliver thee this day into my hands. 3 

" To this Goliath replied with a sneer, and 





set out to meet David. The latter showed 
no sign of fear, but bravely advanced to meet 
his awful enemy. As he went along, he took 
a smooth round stone from a shepherd's bag 
at his side, and placed it in a sling which he 
held in his hand. 

te Fixing his eye stea- 
dily upon the giant, 
he whirled the sling 
around his head, and 
sent the whizzing stone 
through the air. It 
struck the giant in the 
forehead, and he fell 
dead to the earth. 

" Thus a boy, with- 
out spear or shield, 
conquered the chief 

warrior of the Philistine army ; and thus we 
perceive that he who places his confidence 
in God, and looks to heaven for support and 
counsel in the day of trial, is likely to over- 
come a wicked foe, however powerful he may 
be. 



CONCLUSION. 

I H AVE now told you enough respecting 
Inquisitive Jack for you to know the means 
by which he improved his mind, and obtained 
a large stock of knowledge. Soon after the 
period of his life which I have described to 
you, he went to school, where he attended 
closely to the instructions he received, and 
continued his habits of inquiring and thinking 
until he became distinguished above all his 
companions. When he left school, he had 
to get his living by trade, and the greater 
part of his time was occupied. But as he 
persevered in observing and thinking, and in 
reading whenever he had suitable leisure, he 
at last became a wise and learned man. 

I have been anxious to set the example of 
Inquisitive Jack before you, because he pur- 
sued knowledge successfully with very little 
assistance from others. You have heard the 
old proverb " One man may lead a horse to 
water, but ten cannot make him drink." 
Now it is the same with boys in drinking 
knowledge, as with horses in drinking water. 



A boy may have the best books and the best 
teachers in the world, but unless he is willing 
to learn, and ready to exert the faculties he 
has, they will all do him no good. If we 
again compare Jack's case with that of the 
horse, his merit consisted not only in his 
drinking the knowledge that was offered to 
him, but in his finding out where to drink. 
He went to the water without being led, and 
drank with a good heart. 

It is no doubt a great advantage to have 
good teachers, and a great disadvantage to 
have none at all. It may not be in the power 
of every one to become learned, but every one 
may learn a great deal if he will make the 
most of the means within his reach. There 
are not many amongst my little readers who 
cannot command as many advantages as Jack 
possessed. There are not many who have 
not some kind friend or relation who would 
be ready, like Jack's aunt, to answer their 
questions, and encourage them in their pro- 
gress ; and there are none to whom the woods 
and the fields, the waters and the earth, the 
clouds and the starry sky are not open ; who 
have not hands and eyes, and the other senses, 


with powers of thinking, too, if they would 
but exercise them. These, with the reading 
of a few books (which almost every one in this 
country may either obtain for himself or bor- 
row) were the helps which Jack used, which 
tended to make him useful and respected 
amongst his friends, and furnished him with 
a never-ending source of pure enjoyment. 

I shall now give you a few cautions re- 
specting the reading of books ; the cautions 
which Jack, as he grew older, attentively 
observed. You should not try to read many 
books. It is an excellent thing to have read 
a few books well ; but it is a bad thing to 
have read a great many hastily. It may be 
no disgrace to a person not to have read a 
book, but it is a certain disgrace to have read 
a book and to have learned nothing from it. 
A great many people are proud to boast that 
they have read many books : but this is a sad 
delusion. The important question is not 
What books have you read ? but What do 
you know, and what use can you make of 
your knowledge ? 

The possession of one particular branch of 
knowledge need not hinder your learning 





another. I mean, for example, that if a man 
knows Botany, it is no reason why he should 
not study Chemistry. He cannot learn too 
much : knowledge is light carriage ; and the 
more a man has learned, if he has learned 
properly, the easier learning will be to him. 
But in respect to this there is a caution re- 
quired. You should learn one thing well, 
that is, get a good clear notion of it, before 
you learn another. Jack never overlooked 
this caution when he was old enough to see 
its importance. He learned one thing at a 
time, and therefore he learned a great many 
things one after another, and he learned them 
all well. While he was studying a subject, 
his whole attention was fixed on it till he had 
become master of it ; and thus it was that 
though he was acquainted with a variety of sub- 
jects, he was not a mere sinatterer in anything. 
By a smatterer, I do not mean merely one 
who knows a little of a subject : we must all 
of us know a little before we can know a great 
deal of any subject. A child who knows his 
alphabet only, knows but little, but he is not 
a smatterer if he knows it well. Jack, when 
he had attentively observed the ant-hill and 
the beetles, knew but little of entomology, 




but he was not a smatterer. I will tell you 
what a smatterer is. He is one who does 
not know any one part of a subject thoroughly 
but who seems to know something by having 
learned a few names and forms which he uses 
in conversation, without being acquainted 
with their proper meaning. 
The poet Pope has said, 

'* A little learning is a dangerous thing, 
Drink deep, or taste not the Pierian spring." 

Pope was famous for saying things well, 
but I do not think he has said this well. If 
we have any learning we must have possessed 
"a little learning" at some time or other. 
We cannot learn anything in a lump, but we 
must proceed by degrees. Besides, ce a little 
learning" must in itself be better than none 
at all. The fact is " a little learning" is only 
dangerous when its possessor mistakes it for 
a great deal, and thereby becomes conceited; 
or when by using fine words and learned 
names he wishes to pass for a great man, and 
thus becomes a smatterer. Perhaps it was 
one of these evils which the poet meant to 
denounce ; but he should have said what he 
meant in a way less likely to be misunderstood. 




I have now, in conclusion, only one short 
piece of advice to give you. If you wish to 
be learned and wise, apply your whole mind 
to one thing at a time ; never try to appear to 
know more than you really do; and how- 
ever learned and wise you may be, do not set 
yourself up, but be humble, and remember 
that there have been many more wise and 
learned than you are, and that what gifts you 
have were given you to use to the good of 
your fellow men and the glory of your Creator. 







PREFACE  The following Essays have been written not with a view of  teaching Entomology as a science but of affording such a  measure of acquaintance with the habits of the Insect world  as may serve to promote the ulterior and more useful design  of cultivating the rudimental seeds of systematic investigation  Eor this with many sufficient leisure fitting residence and  other appliances may be wanting but few can entirely lack  opportunity for becoming more observant of Natures wonders  more impressible to her influences and her teachings or  more alive to the superior intelligence visible in her works  On nothing perhaps are the signs of that intelligence more  obviously impressed than on the operations of Insects which  as creatures preeminently under the rule of instinct attest  as pre eminently that   The mind which guides them is divine  Thus contemplated the constructive skill selecting judgment  and seeming foresight of these tiny agents as applied to the  preservation of themselves or offspring are exalted into themes  of surpassing interest and as in all created things there  exists a purpose out of and above themselves it is evident in  these displays of instinct that the same informing principle  which serves in its operation to direct the animal actor is  intended by its exhibition to amuse and to instruct the rational  spectator To further however little these latter purposes is  the design of the ensuing pages it only remains to add a  few words explanatory if not propitiatory of the mode in  which this has been attempted  It is an approved device and not a new one to employ  amusement as conducive to higher purpose To besprinkle   Di soave iicor gli orli del vaso  to sweeten the lip of the cup whether it contain instruction  in things natural or things moral has been the practice in  every work seeking popularity from the sacred Epic to the  familiar Exposition but to that now attempted of the ways  and wonders of the Insect world it may possibly be objected  that not merely is the cup sweetened at its lip but that  mingled in its contents are ingredients foreign and discordant  in other words that the descriptive may be deemed too  highly coloured by the imaginative So at first sight it is  not unlikely to appear to those especially who possess no  previous acquaintance with the subject but as this is  partially unfolded it may perhaps become apparent that  allegoric fable poetic association and moral analogy are no  forced productions but only the luxuriant growths leaf flower  and fruit of that branch of the tree of knowledge which  belongs to Insect history  It may also be noticed that in the still prevalent though  daily lessening indifference or distaste to members of the  Insect race there exists an obstacle to their general study  only to be overcome entirely by waging gentle warfare against  prejudice where prejudice is always seated in the feelings  and not in the understanding To make Insects objects  of liking would seem therefore the best preparatory step  towards making them subjects of learning and to accomplish  this the writer has endeavoured to associate them as much  as possible with our domestic habits the s umm ers stroll  the winters walk whilst exhibiting them in their nmnerous  relations with other departments of Nature especially the  Floral high as this already stands in universal love and  admiration  To Entomologists those especially whose pens and re  searches have opened varied paths to their pursuit little  information is offered in the following discursive sketches  yet it is diffidently hoped that even readers of this descrip  tion may find amusement in an hour of leisure from the  inspection of a light and fanciful fabric based upon founda  tions of their own laying From their intimate acquaintance  with the body of the structure the Real they are at all  events well qualified to appreciate the fitness if fit of its  allegorical decoration the Ideal  CONTENTS  AND  DESCRIPTION OF ILLUSTRATIONS  BUTTERFLIES IN GENERAL  Various species just risen and bursting from their chrysalidan shrouds mount  towards the skies or repose upon everlasting flowers  The lowest Butterfly to the left is the Peacock i Vanessa Io that above is the  Common Copper Iycana Phlceas the next above is the Common Blue  Polyommatus Alexis and that to the left is the same showing its  under wing painting Above these upon the sprig of flowers is the Lady  of the Woods Anthocharis Cardamines and over this to the right is the  Brimstone Gonepteryx Rhamni having the HairStreak Purple Thecla  Quercus to the left and the Silverwashed Pritillary Argynnis Paphia  above In the centre is the beautiful SwallowTail Papilio Machaon  to the right below is the Red Admiral Vanessa Atalanta perched  above showing its underwing is the small Garden White Pontia Rapce  over that a little to the left is the Meadow Brown Hipparchia Janira  and uppermost upon the flowers is the Common Copper Lyccena Phlceas  exhibiting its underwing Suspended to the branches beneath are  numerous chrysalides one of which exhibits the small Tortoiseshell  Butterfly recently emerged  To the symbolic meaning of this picture it is scarcely needful to point for in  the Book of Nature so truly described to be a Book of Emblems the  history of the fugacious Butterfly as typifying the flight of the immor  tal soul stands foremost for clearness for exactitude for beauty and for  solemn import  So issue forth the Seasons  First we have Winter in his merriest mood represented by the Cricket  bedecked with Christmas holly and alive with fun and jollity By his  right hand he holds the Brimstone Butterfly emblem of Spring prim  rose of papilions in habits and in hue Beneath the jocund Grasshopper  linked to the above by a vernal wreath figures the bright Summer  and in the glowing Peacock Butterfly rich in her velvet train as  the autumnal flowers she frequents we welcome Autumn bearing the  ripe sheaf and presenting her merry associate with the fruit of the vine  1 THE CRICKET INTRODUCTORY Page  The House Cricket Acheta domestica gaining access to the milkjug by a  sprig of holly 3  Episodes then they shall be called  Symbolic portrait of the author in his character of the Cricket Acheta do  mestica selecting a title for his lucubrations 11  2 THE POINTS OF OUR HOBBY  The Cricket mounted on the back of a magnified May Fly Ephemera vul  gata in search of entomological subjects 12  To the end of time this will carry us  Emblems of riches rank and the pomps and vanities of life outweighed in  the balance by the authors hobby of Entomology under the figure  of a MayFly 31  3 FLIES IN WINTER AND A FLY LEAF  A magnified representation of the House Fly Musca domestica crawling up  CONTENTS  Xlll  a volume in the naturalhistory library To the left is a highly  magnified figure of the foot and in the centre are the larva and pupa of  another species much resembling it abundant in its imperfect stages  between the membranes of dock leaves 82  Try Lightness friend Poet  A leaf of the Poets epic failure exposed to the critical scrutiny of a fly on its  return to the author from a buttershop 55  4 THE GNAT A LIFE OF BUOYANCY  Transformation of the common Gnat Cut ex pipiens the eggs united in a  ■ boatlike form the aquatic larva suspended head downwards the  pupa with head upwards and last stage of all the pupa with the  winged gnat emerging from it 56  Let us strive to keep up our buoyancy  The buoyant Gnat Pupa and the winged Gnat which half flies half walks  upon the water figuring the light spirits which dance upon the stream  of life and are unsubmerged by the missiles of care 73  5 THE WOOD ANT AND THE APHIDES  Aphides of the Oak Two of the large brown Aphis quercus with their  curious suckers and another species of the oak with the wood Ant  Formica rufa in search of honeydew magnified 74  No one took notice of our poor dripping traveller  The luxuriant and wellfed Aphis in fashionable attire and sheltered from  the storm by her acorncup parasol passes disdainfully by the starving  but industrious Ant seated unsheltered naked and solitary on a  toadstool 92  hrttarj  6 LIFE IN DEATH  The Tortoiseshell Butterfly Vanessa Urticce Suspended beneath the parapet  of the wall is the chrysalis of the Cabbage Butterfly Pontia Brassiere  Above is the hairy caterpillar of the Tiger Moth Arctia caja To the  right are three caterpillars of the Magpie Moth Abraxas grossulariata  attached as if frozen to the branches On the lower stems are the  cocoon of a Saw Fly Trichiosoma lucorum and an old cocoon of the  Vapourer Moth Orgyia antiqua employed as a winter bed for her eggs  Encircling a twig above the Butterfly is a braceletlike cluster of the  eggs of the Lackey Moth Clisiocampa neustria 92  In the apparent death of winter  The author Acheta domestica in his propensity for burrowing among the  hidden secrets of nature explores a catacomb of the chrysalides of Moths  and Butterflies with the view of detecting life amidst frost and snow  and torpor 107  7 A MILITARY EXPEDITION BATTLE OF THE AMAZONS  An assemblage of two species of Ants Formica rufa and cunicularia illus  trating the mode in which the former attacks the latter and seizes its  larvae and pupae In the foreground is an instance not uncommon in  insects of an individual retaining its vitality after the loss of its body  and above are a winged male and female of the same species 108  How flows the tide of battle  Ant Amazons chieftains of Rufia hand to hand with the citizens of Eusca  fighting for the rape and rescue of infant subjects to be converted by the  aggressors into slaves 125  8 INSECT AERONAUTS SPIDERS  On the left suspended by its line is the common Garden Spider Epeira dia  dema beneath it is the Labyrinthic Spider Agelena labyrinthica at the  mouth of its hollow snare and on the leaf adjoining is the green  Longbodied Spider Tetragnatha extensa The rotund species to  the right and the traveller by the cable bridge are spinners of  geometric webs of which a small one with its minute artificer  Theridion is represented as often seen constructed within the leaf of a  nettle The little urnshaped body on a leaf near the centre is a nest  of peculiar form guarded by its ingenious weaver 126  All seem bent upon ascension  A spider aeronaut ascending in his gossamer balloon 139  9 THE FRESHWATER SIREN  The Great Water Beetle Dytiscus marginalis and the Diving Water Spider  Argyroneta aquatica allegorically typified above by an armour clad  Knigbt and an aquatic nymph 140  Her mailclad opponent his falchion plied  The Syren of the Poem hideous above water beauteous beneath it changes  under her adversarys thrust into the Water Spider whose habits the tale  is intended to illustrate Her Knightly foe finds his insect prototype in  the Water Beetle 153  JHard  10 USES OF INSECTS  Transformation of the Silk worm Bombyx Mori Eggs Caterpillar Cocoon  and Male and Female Moths on the mulberry 154  The Locust after its hind  A professor of the culinary art anticipating the time when Pates de Sauterelles  will be considered as great a luxury among the Epicures of our own  country as the Locust is in the present day among certain inhabitants  of Syria Arabia Persia Ethiopia Egypt and Barbary 171  11 ON APHIDES  On the rosebuds are numerous Aphides A Rosa of the natural size in the  foreground are individuals of the same winged and wingless magnified  In the midst of some small Aphides on a leaf is the leachlike grub of a  Scan a Pyrastri thinning their numbers and to the right is a winged  Fly the mature condition of the same Another species of the genus  Scceva balteata is seen above in different positions on the wing  To the left on a branch of elder are individuals of the Elder Aphis  A Sambucaria beneath which is a magnified representation of the same  attended by a Brown Ant Formica brunnea procuring a supply of  honey dew 172  The Larva wolf in the Aphis flock  The part of a wolf in sheeps clothing performed by the larva of a Lacewing  Fly Chrysopa perla as it makes havoc among a flock of woolcoated  Apple Aphides Eriosoma lanigerum under cover of their empty skins 189  12 INSECT SENSES  In the centre is the large green Caterpillar of a Moth feeding on rose petals  to the left the Redtailed or Lapidary Humble Bee Bombus la  pidarius revelling in pollen and to the right is the small Cabbage But  terfly Bontia Rapes in the suspended case of spirallyrolled leaves is  a smaller Caterpillar and above are two longhorned Japan Moths Adela  Be Geerella communicating by antennal language 190  The passions are expressed by sounds  A sentimental Grasshopper performing his moonlight serenade whilst his  ladye love directs her listening antennae to the quarter whence the  strains proceed The light guitar furnished to the amative Gryllus by  Raney ranks not more properly as an instrument of music than does  that organ of sweet sounds the gift of nature which he plays on at  natures bidding 213  13 A DEFENCE OF WASPS  In the centre is the common Humble Bee Bombus terrestris collecting pol  len from the Palm Willow to the right is a large female Wasp Vespa  vulgaris a winter survivor and foundress of a new colony rasping wood  as material for her nest and to the left is another individual of the  same in flight descending to the bank in which she has formed her  burrow 214  A widowed winter survivor  Portrait of a notable insect character a widowed Wasp one of the few forlorn  wintersurvivors of a populous summer colony and the destined foundress  of a future spring settlement weeping over the remains of a defunct  partner deposited in an acornshell 231  14 THE ROYAL REFORM BEES AS A BODY POLITIC  Two workers and a Drone of the domestic Bee Apis mellifica gathering  honey from the nectaryielding Broom and Wild Thyme with the  Queen Bee above and in the distance as conductor of a swarm 232  The aged Professor of the Mesmeric art  A youthful QueenBee under the benevolising operation of a mesmerising  Nurseworker of her race a practitioner in Phrenomagnetism an  allegory of the curious process of conversion in Bee Queenmaking  discovered by Schirach in his c La Reine des Abeilles 263  15 MOTHS AS DESTRUCTIVES  On the left side of the vignette is the Lackey Moth Clisiocampa neustria  on the right the Gold Tail Moth Porthesia chrysorrheea beneath each  of which are their respective Caterpillars and in the centre is an Oak  leaf with a file of infant Caterpillars of the latter species engaged  in stripping it of its verdure Over this hang suspended numerous chry  salides of the black aud yellow Ermine Moth Yponomeuta padella and  above all in flight is the small Green Oak Moth Tortrix viridana with  its Caterpillar engaged in its ravages as a leafroller From one of these  scrolls protrudes the empty shell of its chrysalis and behind this are the  remains of leaves which it has reduced to skeletons 264  Two Moths still lingered  Moths of the Banners of the tale illustrating by the armorial bearings on the  wings of one and the equipage on the wings of the other the two  consuming principles of Pride of Birth and Pride of Show 283  16 WATER DEVILS  The central insects swimming on their backs are examples of the Water  Boatmen Notonecta glauca the nearer one being attacked by the little  Whirlwig Beetle Gyrinus natator while the other is gliding head  foremost into the extended jaws of the fierce larva of the Water Beetle  Hydrophilus Caraboides On the rushes to the right is a Water Scorpion  Nepa cinerea In the distance are the linear forms of two Water Mea  surers Hydrometra stagnorum and below them is a Water Bug of less  slender growth Velia currens The figures above represent the Water  Scorpion and Water Boatman in flight 284  He rows with infinite speed  A BoatPly punt with crew of diabolic aspect queer and cruel fit passsengers  for Charons ferryboat The captive of the party with uplifted arms re  presents a young and imperfect Water Scorpion and the shadowy imp  employed in the erection of the flag exhibits the linear form and piercing  proboscis of the WaterMeasurer In the head of the rower is  depicted that of the aquatic larva of the DragonFly with face con  cealed by a natural mask capable of being depressed or raised shut or  opened at pleasure Of the passengers sted near the prow one has a  nearly similar visor whilst the female is invested with the features of the  BoatFly resembling those which form the figurehead of the boat 801  17 BUTTERFLIES IN GENERAL  Seated to the right of the Dahlia is the beautiful Red Admiral Butterfly Va  nessa Atalanta and to the left the Common Blue Folyommatus Alexis  both exhibiting their under wing painting The Butterfly descending  towards them is the Common Copper Lyccena phlceas For illustrations  of other species treated of in this essay see the Frontispiece 302  In her hours of supposed privacy  The PaintedLady Butterfly Cynthia Cardui whose Memoirs deserve a  volume to themselves if only for the moral they teach   Such mistresses dare never come in rain   For fear their colours should be washed away  of equal application to the summerday flutterer of fashion and this  her prototype of the insect world the Cynthia of the Thistle upon  which plant she loves to regale as a spiny caterpillar before putting  on her butterfly attire 320  JANUARY  THE CRICKET INTRODUCTORY  THE POINTS OF OUR HOBBY  FLIES IN WINTER AND A FLY LEAF  THE GNAT A LIFE OF BUOYANCY  THE WOODANT AND THE APHIDES  THE CRICKET INTRODUCTORY  And Criekets sing at tlie ovens mouth  As the blither for the drouth Shakspere  An eminent Erench Entomologist Reaumur lias very justly  observed that it is certainly no fault of Natures if we do not  possess works upon Insects which everybody may read with  pleasure His most amusing though rather voluminous  publication Memoires pour servir a THistoire des Insectes  1734 went far to supply in his time the deficiency at which  he hints and in ours amidst the multitude of familiar books  on every subject it might certainly be supposed that there is  no lack of such as would suit and please everybody on this  natures cabinet  No inquisitive mind need complain of any want of keys for  the simple opening of that drawer in Natures cabinet a drawer  of gems which has been labelled Entomology Of these  there are an abundance gilded keys of popular as well as iron  keys of scientific manufacture but the still prevailing want is an  incitement to place them in the lock The works of Kirby and  Spence Rennie and Jardine Burmeister and Westwood may  be said to furnish preeminently the gilded or with reference  to their intrinsic worth the golden keys in question but  seeing how generally even these are left to tarnish on the  shelf something would seem to be required as an incentive to  their more frequent handling  The most prevalent feeling about Insects except perhaps  the busy people of the hive or the painted populace of  the garden is that of indifference if not distaste and who of  the multitude thus ignorantly prepossessed would seek for  books strictly devoted to their history or believe that they  could find interest in the mere relation of their instincts however  pleasantly detailed  The first anxiety of a writer is as all the world knows to  establish a kindly sympathy between himself and his readers  but how can this be speedily created betwixt one who as an  Entomologist would seem to think of nothing but Insects and   the many who have always regarded them as below a passing  thought With even a slight knowledge once acquired of  their w r ondrous ways the latter will be induced to a confession  that these Minims of Creation are something even in  themselves but it may be well meanwhile for him who would  bring them into general notice to invest them with the charm  of adventitious interest and reflected consequence Insects are  peculiarly capable of being thus treated for in their analogies  and correspondences illustrative and emblematic innumerable  are their relations with other things from the most trifling  objects of the world we live in up to the highest subjects of  human contemplation Multiplied then and still multiply  ing as are books on Entomology we venture to think there is  yet scope and use for one of a character more discursive a  book not professing to teach the science but to persuade to  its study those who may have time and opportunity for the  pursuit and to show those who have not that they may  nevertheless find interest and pleasure in common observation  not commonly exercised of the insect million by which they  are surrounded With a confidence that some such work might  be generally read though by no means equally assured of our  ability to write one we long had wavering thoughts of making  the attempt At last we resolved to try reminded by a re  turning epoch a brush en passant from the wing of time  that while we doubt and linger   La vie a differer se passe  The end of the year was at hand Tomorrow said we to  ourselves we will really begin our work for every body about  Insects This very evening shall be devoted to a final decision  on its plan for under a hundred Protean forms and almost  as many different names had our intended work been floating  for months before our minds eye Letters Sketches  Conversations these were familiar shapes into which our  materials might be moulded but they seemed in one sense  too familiar the public taste might be tired of these hacknied  modes of dressing up the sister sciences Besides clothing  such as this however light would overmuch confine us in  the very discursive rambles which we had thoughts of taking  amongst our creepers and fliers and swimmers Episodes might  better serve our purpose and impose fewer shackles on our  roving fancy Episodes then they shall be called Episodes of  Insect Life providing every month a seasonable admixture of  the Real and the Ideal But tomorrow and for a month to  come what insects will be in season Of all the summer  myriads the bulk have long ago expired the remnant scared  even by the shadow of advancing winter betook themselves  to hidden places and now old Christmas has benumbed them  with his icy paw and keeps them unconscious prisoners  within the earth or waters  We may still discourse it is true of torpid Bees of sleeping  Ants of buried Beetles and a forlorn few of widowed Wasps  stupified by grief or cold sole relics of their perished race  but what a drowsy doleful prelude would this be to the cheerful  airs we would draw from the harp of nature These insect  sleepers would furnish us with themes of life in death for in  all of them under forms of death forms of vitality arrested  or unexpanded lie hidden as in all real deaths merely  natural are contained the germs of life Even this departing  year does not wholly die since being full fraught with causes  seeds which are sure to ripen into the fruit of consequences  in these it will continue to live to the end of time aye even  to eternity but believe and philosophize and hope as we may  neither death nor deaths semblances are the most enlivening  objects of contemplation At all events we felt our spirits  growing flat and our thoughts confused as we looked at our  waning candle like the year approaching to its end and  reviewed the subjects defunct or drowsy from amongst which  we must perforce choose one for that of our opening essay  Dreaminess trod on the heels of dullness and before we had  come to a decision as to what sleeping insect should constitute  our commencing theme we were ourselves nodding beside our  solitary fire  Suddenly we were awoke by a clang of bells from the  neighbouring steeple of our parishchurch the requiem of the  departed and salutation to the newborn year It was soon  pealed out and we were left once more to the silence of our  little parlour a silence which seemed deeper than usual and  more solemn yet not to the spirits ear unbroken for it is in  pauses such as these on lifes rattling road that the small  still voice is always audible unless it be drowned as is common  by the noise of social mirth We sank into a reverie regretful  more than hopeful of retrospect rather than of prospect and in  the current of mingled thoughts that rushed over it our lately  ruling and uppermost idea that of our contemplated book  was completely overwhelmed Of a sudden however it was  again brought to the surface a shrill sound broke upon the  stillness another chorus within the house succeeded to the  hushed peal without The Crickets from the kitchen below  were uplifting their chirping strains to salute in full concert  the newcome year We were at no loss now for at least  one cheerful subject wherewith to commence our Episodes  Bless their merry voices for the opportune suggestion Eorth  with we took up not our pen but our candle and descended  to the lower regions of which we found our chirpers left in sole  possession The noisy varlets broke off instanter in their song  and each to his hole or cranny scampered off at our approach  but we captured a straggler in the very act of draining the  milkpot and carried him off to our parlour fireside for the  cultivation of a more intimate acquaintance and with a view to  making him as well known to our readers by sight as he  or rather his merry fraternity are likely to be already by  sound Einish thy song there little Master and with what  appetite thou mayest thy supper too said we as we placed  our lean lankbodied prisoner beneath a tumbler under which  we were so merciful as to insert a few crumbs of bread one  of the Crickets favourite repasts Aye leap as thou wilt  and climb against gravity up the smooth walls of thy crystal  prison there thou shalt abide till we have taken thy portrait  Yes queer creature as thou art thy angular figure and round  physiognomy shall be exhibited in our first vignette Thou  shalt be honoured as our opening subject and if thy name  had not served already the purpose of one whose sympathy  with thy merry chirrup has been shared by thousands thou  shouldst have given a title to our book like The Bee  and other seekers and gatherers of Sweets Thou art in truth  an omniumgatherer nothing comes amiss to thy convenient  appetite and variety must be the character of the feast we  would provide no less than of that which thou lovest to  devour True as we have said thou art not particular scum  mings of pots sweepings bread yeast flesh and fat of broth  thy pickings most esteemed seem not some of them the most  inviting fare yet do these dainties each in its kind serve to  symbolize not unaptly the very sort of viands we would seek  and set before our readers  Bor scummings of pots suppose we say the cream of our  subject the most light and withal the richest of the agreeable  matter already laid up by others to be extracted by ourselves  in the field of observation Bor sweepings let us put   gleanings Gleanings in Entomology and we have the  very term adopted by a wellknown writer for his amusing  anecdotes in various branches of Natural History Then  bread with Cricket as with man the very staff of life if  poverty forbid him not to grasp it what substance more properly  symbolic of that which must form the groundwork of our  book matters of solid fact mixed with and lightened by  the yeast of illustration discursive and pictorial As for  the flesh and fat the strongest fare on which the  Cricket delighteth to regale may they not serve to typify  that principle of mental nourishment of all the most vital  afforded by the religious contemplation of all natural objects  endowed with life  The Cricket is the thirstiest of all thirsty creatures He is  not therefore   the blither for the drouth  for where no ampler supply of liquid is at hand he is said  heed it ye careful housewives to gnaw holes in wet woollen  stockings or flannel hung by the fire to dry Therein also  though in more harmless fashion we would make him our  representative as thirsting after knowledge of our subject  we strive to extract from it even when seemingly most arid a  something of refreshing moisture  Lastly in all his doings our Cricket is confessedly a  pilferer and taking as we largely must from stores collected  by the labours and observations of others we shall herein  also resemble our prototype except that we rob in open  daylight and thankfully acknowledge what we appropriate  There are yet other points of resemblance more personal  between ourselves and the house Cricket As with him a warm  hearth in winter and a sunny bank in summer are the seats of  our supreme felicity Like him also we joy in the  possession of a quiet retreat and prefer to uplift our voice  from behind a screen  We have now set forth quite as much of our design and  revealed as much of our personality as have come connected  with our immediate subject and from the scattered grains of  intimation already dropt some prying reader may even now  have gleaned more about the Crickets ways and whereabouts  than we have thought it expedient to reveal Something more  of them may be disclosed hereafter Meanwhile surmise what  thou wilt good gossip but above all we entreat thee to  bear in mind that alike in our proper and our emblematic  character we most heartily rejoice in all that warms and all  that cheers Remember this dear reader and be kind try  to look sunbeams or firelight on these our weak and broken  chirrups for according as thy smile shall encourage or thy  frown repress they may speedily sink into silence or rise into  a more powerful and grateful song  THE POINTS OF OUR HOBBY  No joyless forms shall regulate  Our living calendar Wordsworth  What have we here P A May Ely in January A magnified  May Ely Verily Master Cricket thou dost not only magnify  but most unseasonably misplace the objects of Creation  strangely too dost thou misapply them for in seating thy  domestic self upon the back of this ephemeral highflier we are  quite at a loss to guess thy meaning Then gentle reader  guess not at all only have patience and all seeming incon  gruities shall be reconciled Suffice it now that as in the  Cricket we have introduced thee to our symbolic self so in the  May Fly we would beg thee to recognise our symbolic hobby a  hobby we confess it whereat even under her imposing name  Entomology all her sister ologies were once in the habit of  kicking up their heels as they left her disdainfully in the rear  Of late however she has been gaining ground and now promises  to keep up with the proudest jade among her fellows But  without invidious comparisons let us proceed to put her through  her paces and show how in pursuit of e charming variety she  carries us through roads as varied Now like an ambling palfrey  she bears us over flowery meadows now like a flying Pegasus  mounts with us through air now descends beneath earths  surface then plunging in the stream opens to us new worlds  beneath the waters In these her endowments of amphibious  character we may notice the first points of resemblance between  the features of our favourite and the habits of the May Ely  Day Ely we also call her and so she is in her brief career  through the summer sky but before she has ever fluttered or  had wings to flutter in air each May Ely has lived in earth aye  and under water caverned in the bank of her native streamlet  where at present she abides The comparison holds good  still further no Ephemera can now disport itself in air  nor in the fields of air is there now much of pleasant pasture  for our hobby but the Day Ely of next May is in no want of  food or doubtless of enjoyment though confined to earth and  water and in these does our hobby still possess an ample  supply of winter exercise and provender  Dear Entomology We have called thee our hobby we  have likened thee to a hack but thou art more Thou art a  powerful Genie a lightwinged Dairy not merely bearing us  through earth and sky and water but peopling every scene  in every element with new and living forms before invisible  For us Nature has now no desert places touched by thy  magic wand every tree has become a peopled city teeming  with busy multitudes every flower a pavilion hung with  gorgeous tapestry for the summer occupation of Insect nobles  clad in velvet gauze or coat of mail nay the very moss  that grows upon the tree or clothes the stone has become  to us a forest where as in forests of larger growth roam the  fierce and the gentle preying or preyed on by each other and  the stone we have only to upturn it and we are certain  almost to discover beneath some hidden lurker or some  wondrous subterranean structure perhaps a solitary dwelling  perhaps a nursery perhaps a general home of refuge Yes  our darling pursuit of all most lightsome and lifegiving  with thee for our companion the bare the barren the desolate  and the deathlike become instinct with life The arid heath  the decaying tree the mouldering wall are converted at once  into fertile fields of interest and inquiry while the summer  skies and glittering waters grow brighter yet with glancing  wings and oarlike feet and with the knowledge that both are  plied by a multitude of happy creatures  But stand still our favourite hobby We must draw in  thy rein or matteroffact people will declare that thou art  careering with us beyond earth or sky or water even into  the intangible realms of Imagination They would do us  wrong but to prove ourselves as fond of fact as they and  thou our favourite no phantom horse we will een dismount  and ere w T e start with thee on fresh excursions tell something  of thy birth and parentage and point out other of thy excellent  merits in more sober fashion  Entomology signifies the study of Insects from whose pe  culiar formation the term owes its origin the bodies of this  part of the Animal Creation being msected or divided into  three principle parts head trunk and abdomen besides other  subdivisions Eor this reason the Latin name Insecta Greek  r E vrofjLd from whence Entomology  Now of these little insected animals thus curiously divided  from the rest of animated nature except the Crustacea  once also classed as Insects many great men of antiquity  philosophers as well as poets thought no scorn Among these  Aristotle Pliny and Yirgil wrote of them largely though  indeed somewhat erroneously the former with other similar  fables asserting not only that flies were meat engendered a  notion still ignorantly entertained but that they also inherited  a disposition fierce or harmless according to that of their  fleshfathers when in life Quite as absurdly though more  poetically Yirgil says or sings of Bees that   From herbs and fragrant flowers  They call their young  With these and similarly confused notions about the origin  of Insects and other created beings their beauties and wonders  had certainly much less claim upon the notice of the ancients  than on ours who have acknowledged them for the work  of one Divine Hand and regarded them as visible tokens of  that Divine Mind of which they are thus permitted to afford  us a partial revelation but since with incentives comparatively  slight the study of nature in general and of Insects in  particular was yet deemed by enlightened heathens worthy of  infinite attention is it not strange that the classic robe which  has so often lent a dignity to a host of insignificances should  not at least have defended poor Entomology from neglect or  ridicule Yet so it has not been  On the revival of general learning there appeared in Europe  a few works in which Insects were noticed among other objects  of natural history but it was not we believe till the reign  of Charles the First that they obtained in England the honour  of a whole Latin book to themselves and were introduced to  the learned public in MouffeCs Theatrum Insectorum The  history of this book is curious and in a manner correspondent  to the ephemeral subjects on which it treats for in the successive authors who began continued but never lived to finish  it we are furnished with striking instances of the fragility and  uncertainty attendant on the designs and labours of the  Insect Man The foundations of the work were laid by the  celebrated Conrad Gesner and Dr Wootton and upon these  a considerable structure was raised by Dr Penny a physician  and botanist in the reign of Elizabeth but lie too after  fifteen years of partial employment died and left it incom  plete His manuscripts purchased by Mouffet a contemporary  also a physician were arranged augmented and prepared for  the press but ere he had time according to his intent to  dedicate this fruit of his own and other mens labours to the  maiden Queen he as they had been before him was summoned  to submit all his works to the judgment of the Court Supreme  His book lay buried with him till in the next century it was  once more brought to light and published by Mazerne a  court physician An English translation followed and a  curious old book it is giving a complete view of all that was  then known on the subject of Insects with much informa  tion since confirmed and with it an infinitely larger portion  of gravely and quaintly affirmed nonsense perhaps not the  least amusing part of the production It is amply adorned  with figures many of them amusing too from their very im  perfection Some of the greatest men are perhaps to be  found among those who pursue little objects those we mean  held as little in general estimation such people are great in  their discernment to discover the real worth of what is com  monly despised and they are greater still in their independence  of spirit to follow up objects whose pursuit exposes them to  ridicule and whose attainment is little likely to bring them  admiration or repute Well in the 17th century several  gifted individuals in tills sense very great appeared and took  neglected Entomology by the hand Chief among these were  the English Ray and the Dutch Swammerdam Insects were  then found capable of exciting enthusiastic energy incompa  rable patience and fervent piety Oh says Swammerdam  while studying for his work on the habits and structure of  Bees Oh for one year of continued light and heat that I  might work without interruption Such was his enthusiasm  In his admirable dissection of Insect anatomy he has left a  record of his perseverance equalled however by Boerhaave  who could employ a whole day in clearing one Caterpillar  from its fat and by Lyonnet who counted 1804 aerial tubes  in the body of another whose structure formed the chief study  of his life and for piety that of Swammerdam finds ardent  expression in the following apostrophe drawn forth by the  wonder and beauty of those divine mechanisms which patience  had laid open to his own and others observation Oh  God he exclaims how Thy works infinitely surpass the  reach of our feeble understandings all that we actually know  of Thee or ever can is but a faint and lifeless shadow of Thy  adorable perfections in contemplation of which the brightest  understandings grow bewildered With the same feelings  inspired by similar objects our venerable Ray composed his  work called f The wisdom of God manifested in the works  of Creation And again it was the interest excited by  Insect forms their singularity and surpassing beauty which  in the same era inspired the artistic pencil of a Merian and  induced her with a womans energy to cross the seas and  brave the noxious climate of Surinam for the sake of its  curious and splendid Insects These she has as truthfully  depicted though misled perhaps by her own enthusiasm  into a too ready credence of the marvellous the accuracy of  her accompanying descriptions has been more than questioned  Thus in the latter end of the 17th and beginning of the 18th  centimes a few among the most highly endowed with talent  learning and piety considered the study of Entomology not  unworthy to constitute the grand pursuit of life yet at this  very period in such low estimation was it generally held nay  so extravagant or childish was it deemed that we are told by  Kirby of an attempt to set aside the will of a rational woman  Lady Glanville on the ground of lunacy evinced solely by  her fondness for collecting Insects Kay himself had to appear  as a witness of her sanity How was it that his own escaped  impeachment P For all this and calmly smiling at the scoffs of  the vulgar ignorant and vulgar learned Entomology marched  on steadily supported by a phalanx of staunch professors such  as Keaumur called the French Pliny Lyonnet Bonnet Gould  the historian of English Ants the Swede Baron de Geer and  at the head of all his illustrious countryman Linnseus Of  the previous labours of Kay and Swammerdam the chief had  been directed to tlie internal organization of the Insect race a  theme though of infinite curiosity by no means adapted in its  elaborate details to attract the general reader but the  naturalists of the 18th century above noticed with the ex  ception of Lyonnet devoted their attention more to the works  and ways the structure and economy of Insect communities  or individuals subjects highly amusing and except in the  nearly fabulous narrations of antiquity almost new yet for all  this charm she never so wisely Entomology had still few  charms for the public De Geer whose History of Insects  has been pronounced above all praise on publishing the first  volume of his work in 1752 found it so ill received that  instead of being devoured by readers numerous impressions  were devoured by the flames to which they were consigned by  the disappointed author In nineteen years however a great  change came over the public taste the second volume of his  work was eagerly received and De Geer presented a copy of  it to the then select few who had bought the first The  Memoires t of Beaumur though less systematic than the above  are yet more interesting and in spite of their prolixity so full  of curious matter apt illustrations and lively remarks that  a more amusing book can scarcely be found even for the  general reader provided he be a person of taste  From the glowworm light in which it had so long glim  mered Entomology now shone as it were in the radiance of  a swarm of Tireflies Yet this her augmented brightness  did but serve for a season to make her a more conspicuous butt  for the shafts of ridicule and many a quill was shot in  derision at this persecuted science which could only have  been aimed with any show of fairness at her merest classifiers  and collectors such as every branch of Natural History may  number among the lesser minded of its votaries But even  persons like these who would seem in the words of the  satirist to   Think their eyes  And reason given them but to study flies  may still perhaps be followers of objects not a whit less  insignificant than those which occupy their neighbours only  that the pursuits of the many escape ridicule because they  are sought along the high ways instead of the bye ways of  wasted life But the laugh at Entomology is nearly spent  Known professors of the science and members of its   Society may now assemble in council and communicate  their observations and enquiries without fear of becoming  themselves subjects for a commission De lunatico inquirendo  and Butterflyhunters net in hand may now chase their game  without being themselves made game of In recent times  the works of Latreille Lamarck Cuvier Curtis Leach  Macleay with many more have been gradually improving the  science which their names adorn while Kirby and Spence  Rennie J ardinet Knapp J Burmeister and Westwood §  have published their researches to the multitude in works  which were they as popular as they should be would have a  place not only in every library but in every bodys hand to  serve literally as handbooks in their country rambles  Return we now to the great volume on which the above  are but imperfect commentaries that volume bound in  etherial blue and at this our chosen chapter printed in  living characters on leaves of every tint from vernal green  to the richest hues of autumn nay on the brown or snow  white sheet of winter for at no season is the student of Ento  mology presented with an entire blank Even in the month of  January besides our chirping representative of the hearth  and certain Gnats which disport over frozen pools a sprinkling  of other Insects may be seen melting their frosted fluids in  the wintry sunbeam or the sheltered window Numerous  others hidden from all but practised eyes are laid up snugly  in various hybernacula of which the discovery adds a zest to  their pursuit Of these some are concealed in caverns under  ground some in beds of mud beneath the water some are  ensconced in hollow trees and behind or in crannies of their  bark while others lurk within the tunnels of dry perforated  stalks sleep within the domes of protecting gallnuts or lie  defended from frost and famine in other homes of shelter such  as the care of Him who careth for all has led them to seek out  Using our hobby as a hunter we may pursue our game for  two different objects that of observation or collection or both  combined And we may collect for two different purposes  that of scrutinizing living instincts or arranging and looking at  dead objects The relative value of one and the other is as  that of an apples rind to its juicy pulp the rind is not  without its use and beauty while connected with the interior  of the fruit neither is a collection of Insect specimens as  connected with the juicier matter of the study they illustrate  As for him whose delight in natural objects of what kind  soever consists solely in their amassment or is circumscribed  within the walls of his cabinet he is no naturalist at all a  mere kindred spirit of the Bibliomaniac and little better than  the miser whose iron heart is in his iron chest Neither are  specimens necessary to the study of Insects though like the  Hortus Siccus of the botanist they are of great assistance  especially at its commencement Subsequently if you should  desire to collect we would recommend the pursuit for this  purpose of one selected tribe say Beetles as the most varied  and perfect or Butterflies and Moths as the most elegant and  interesting of the Insect classes The study of the latter  only in the search after Caterpillars the feeding them on  fresh leaves of such plants as they frequent and the oppor  tunities thus afforded of watching them through their changes  transformations and most ingenious labours will afford ample  occupation and amusement for nearly every season of the  year and moreover present us if we choose a collection of  cabinet paintings in whose exhibition and contemplation  always with reference to their Great Designer we may take a  laudable delight But here ere it be declared let us anticipate  the objection of some gentle reader who numbering us with  those who kill Butterflies for amusement may have already  pronounced us worse than a Domitian who killed flies  for the same purpose only Now there is no subject probably  on which there has been more straining at gnats and split  ting of straws than that of cruelty to animals as connected  with our own pleasures Take for example the gentle Poet  of the Seasons that most eloquent advocate of oppressed  animals yet Thompson was a fisher not an angler mark  ye but a flyfisher Accordingly the welldissembled fly  he considers a harmless ruse and bids us   Fix with gentle twitch the barbed hook  and then adds beseechingly   But let not on that hook the tortured worm  Convulsive twist in agonizing folds  forgetting the convulsions of the agonized Fisk with a hook  in its lacerated jaws and gasping for its native element  And now as a collector of Insect specimens though that  save for a temporary purpose is not our profession let us  endeavour with what dexterity we may to split our own  straws or lay hold on such of them as may serve to rescue  our hobby from a flood of censure To take the little life even  of a Butterfly is confessedly and ought to be matter of pain  and is so far a setoff against the pleasures of an Aurelian  Nor is it a setoff which use diminishes for the more we  notice the beauty of Insects and the more we learn of their  movements the greater becomes our reluctance to mar the  former or arrest the latter by an unwilling hastening of the  hand of death It is only our moral right to do so on sufficient  occasion for which we would contend True this is the  very thing that all are desirous of proving who with old  Isaac feel in the cruel pleasures of their darling pursuits  that other joys are but toys still argue as they may on  no principle can it be allowable to toy with torture To  take life quickly and with far less suffering to the individual  than what in the common course of nature it will for ever be  liable to undergo all must admit to be a different matter   Well be it so now retorts perhaps some fair and loving  champion of the weaker cause yet we doubt your privilege  to cut off the delight of a Butterfly taken in haste  among the beautiful flowers for the sake of your own  to be taken at leisure in the scrutiny of her beautiful  wings An unkindly cut we own but the moral right  we still assert Pleasure for pleasure compare the sensual  pleasures of a Butterfly versus the mental pleasure of a Man  such as can scarcely fail to be excited by a close examination  of natures miniature masterpieces of painting and mechanism  and for once we may fairly claim for ourselves le droit du  plus fort as one which if it so please us we may justly exercise  For Aurelians or collectors of Moths and Butterflies this  month and the following constitute one of the great harvest  seasons Trowel in hand they are now repairing to the leafless  woods where carefully digging a few feet around the trunks of  the trees they disquiet and bring up from their winter  catacombs the mummy like aurelias of various Moths which  as Caterpillars have fattened in summer on the foliage above  Such as are disposed to become Aurelians themselves must  have in readiness for their treasures thus exhumed boxes of  wood or pasteboard partly filled with vegetable earth and  covered at top with gauze The Chrysalides consigned to their  earthy bed there should be laid over them a green coverlet of  moss which once a fortnight in winter and oftener in summer  should be steeped in water for the purpose of giving moisture  to the mould beneath  Among the numerous projets of Reaumur suggested by  his favourite pursuit was one for the establishment of a sort of  public menagerie for Insects and perhaps in the present  speculative era a worse scheme might be hit on than the  opening of an Entomologic Garden Who knows but that  by help of such adjuncts as flowery walks and Fetes al Fresco  ladies might be tempted to face Antlions at home in their  sandy pitfalls as well as Manlions not at home in their iron  cages and condescend even to take a general survey of the  figures and fashions the costumes and customs of other Insect  tribes when so collected in a convenient focus as to require  only the trouble of looking at instead of looking for Might  we not insure a modicum of royal and noble patronage by the  introduction of some such foreigners as a company of Walking  Leaves or a group of Spectral Branches from China providing  a grand morning concert of screaming Cicadas from Greece or  Italy and an evening illumination of Chinese Lanthorn Carriers  and American FireFlies  But to leave trifling let us now recur to that perpetual  charm of the Insect world which consists in its intimate con  nection with the vegetable kingdom Viewed according to their  mutual relations of use and adaptation the flower and the  leaf seem almost instinct as well as associate with animate  existence while their Insect frequenters appear in return to  have borrowed a share of floral elegance and sweetness  Various writers on Insects afford partial information as to the  plants on which they are generally to be found and a little  French workt treats wholly on this subject but it is  still very imperfectly explored and sure to be attended in  its cultivation with discoveries of new Insects and unobserved  habits of those already known As an instance of their  numbers and variety we are told that one collector found in  forty days between June and the beginning of August no less  than 2400 specimens and 100 new species not including  Caterpillars We have said that Insects are to be found every  where but if asked the best of all places for finding and the  best of all ways to seek them we should answer in your own  garden be it ever so confined and by close examination of  every tree and plant it produces flowers leaf and stem down  to the very roots and even below them Scrutiny like this will  make visible a multitude of strange little animals and half  visible a multitude of their wondrous ways to be made gra  dually plainer by further exercise of eye and mind for we can  tell you that in the divinely directed doings of the meanest of  them all there is something worth the looking into Lord of  Creation as you are you will soon see how the Insect is per  mitted to play the little Lord too over the good creatures  of the kingdom below him and how with tliis power he has  had conferred on him the skill to employ them each according  to its kind for habitation for food for clothing and for  pleasure Things such as these have a higher claim upon your  interest and admiration than the mere external beauty even of  a flower garden and when the flowers have all departed even  now when the leaves have gone the way of all things verdant  they will furnish you with novelties to look for and forms of  vitality to examine On the leafless branches on which at  present you may vainly seek for a budding promise of spring  you may yet find a promise of something more animate a group  of Insect eggs destined to emerge into life almost simulta  neously with the opening of the adjacent leaves sure to be in  readiness for the infant Caterpillars In this who can say that  Insect eggs are objects too small for admiration whilst they  are besides both curious and pretty on account of their variety  of arrangement shape colour and sculpture yes for the  design of their sculptured patterns We do not magnify as you  may prove by placing the next you find beneath a magnifier  Now all ye idle dwellers in pleasant places for to you  especially we address ourselves what say you to our hobby  Our Horse of Enchantment which like the Brazen one of  Fairy Tale and unlike most other hobbies of real life has yet  the further merit of costing nothing for its keep Why  master Cricket responds perhaps one of our pursuitless  plodders or a busy wight among the already mounted we  have yawned over the catalogue of thy favourites excellencies  and after all the most we can admit in favour of thy hack  is simply that it seems to suit its rider Thou hast painted  it indeed with prodigious pinions and dost prate finely of  being carried up and down and hither and thither on thy  boasted Bucephalus yet do we still set it down even on thy  own showing as of all steeds most mincing tame and quiet  fit only for the riding of a child or of a sexagenarian just the  thing therefore for a man such as thou master Cricket hast  figured thyself to be a retired gentleman of exceeding light  weight except in the scale of entomological society thy winter  fire the centre of thy world of comfort at home the summers  sun the centre of thy world of amusement without The world  proper the social stirring busy world having we suspect long  ago laid thee on its shelf a sort of cabinet antique thyself  thy cabinet pursuit is all in character 33 Well be it so good  reader and whether as to our person right or wrong we  thank thee for having thyself hit upon yet another and a  crowning commendation of our hobby and one moreover which  will shew further the fitness of the figure by which we  represent it Of the May Ely more in due season but what  common observer what common fisher knows not that the  early morning and the sunset eve are the times it always chooses  for its sportive exercise In like manner the pursuit of  Entomology in common more or less with all those directed  towards natural objects is one suited especially to the morning  and evening of life least of all perhaps to its active heyday  Somebody has said we believe justly that as our other  loves and likings weaken our love of nature strengthens  This is a yearning kindly implanted in that nature which  we call our own and well and happy is it when in lieu of  withered pleasures we have leisure to cultivate within us  such good seed of calm and innocent enjoyment as may  serve to adorn our autumns with something of the verdure of  a second spring As we each in our own career are compelled  to take the downward road we shall surely desire if ever to  exercise our several hobbies to some worthy purpose but how  few of them are capable of a single service except to amuse  the little hour of life or hardly this for are not most of  them discarded by their riders as worn out before them  But it is never thus with the gentle steeds which have borne  us through the flowery paths of nature To the end of time  these will carry us nay they will do more for where is the  path of nature which leads not from the world we live in  ascending to its Mighty Author and to the worlds unseen  of which in this and in its minutest objects we dimly discover  innumerable types and shadows P Will not then our mounted  May Fly alias Day Fly serve to symbolize an innocent and  pleasant pursuit such a one as may help at all events to make  the year pass as a day and that a day of May  FLIES IN WINTER AND A FLY LEAF   And his two pretty pinions of blue dusky gauze  Are glued to his sides by the frost Wordsworth  The Flies are gone but where are they gone to that is the  question At the close of summer when they are busy and  buzzing around us in the shape of a visitation it is certainly  no easy matter to let them pass by us as the idle wind  but in one respect they are to most people like the wind too  since they scarce know whence they come or whither they go  Doubt the first as to whence they come is not difficult to  solve though perhaps with the most presuming of Flies as  with the most presuming of folks the more we pry into their  places of birth the more we may be inclined but with the  insect not justly to hold them in contempt suffice it that as  the domestic Fly makes himself quite at home in our houses  so has his parent in all likelihood made herself equally free  of our stables where she finds a hotbed for her eggs and in  the same a provision for her infant race There in their  first and wingless state of maggot or larva they commence thus  early their important use of helping to rid the earth of all tilings  that offend and on how grand a scale they are able to carry on  this operation may be estimated from the fact that a single Fly  will lay no less than 177 eggs House Flies come then chiefly  from the stable the road and the grazing meadow though  some nearly resembling them come from other places and  exist in their earliest state on vegetable instead of animal sub  stances Among these we have noticed a very common species  which finds its first bed and board between the upper and  under skins of dockleaves burrrowing and feeding on the  pulpy flesh From spring to autumn we may see them thus  busily employed merely by gathering and holding to the light  such leaves as are to be found continually not adorned by  large discoloured transparent blotches the outward tokens of  their inward presence These from the above habit may be  ranked among a set of insect labourers or feeders of more  classes than one hence called Leafminers some of whose  winding ways we mean by and by to follow  For query the second and that just now more pertinent to  the season of whither flies go on the arrival of winter it  still remains we believe a problem not yet completely solved  even by naturalists who have maintained opinions on the matter  nearly as different as on the hybernation of swallows A great  proportion no doubt perish from cold or the many accidents  to which their weakness and growing torpor render them as  the year declines more and more exposed Yet how few  comparatively of the swarms so agile head downwards on  the ceiling do we ever perceive or our housemaids either  stiff and stark legs upwards on the floor That Ely survivors  there are laid up snugly in secret hybernacula is further  evidenced by the few which are often seen emerging  from nobody knows where in mild winter weather also by  those more lonely bodies tempted by the warmth of the fire to  creep forth even in nipping frost Under such forlorn circum  stances a Fly becomes to us at least an object of absolute  interest our dislike amounting almost to antipathy of  the intrusive buzzing pilfering boozing tickling varlet one  of the dusky legions which possess us in the months of  August and September is converted into sympathy for the  poor mateless friendless shivering silent creature lured by  deceptive warmth to quit the shelter of his winter asylum We  would make him as welcome now to his tiny bit or sup as the  redbreast to his crumbs of comfort and on occasion would  even stretch out a willing finger to save him from a flood of  milk or a morass of honey Yet more when thus rescued  and set damp or dripping on the heated mantlepiece we have  often watched with curious and interested eye the poor  pilferers gradual restoration marking how at first languidly  and then with increasing briskness he busies his handy paws  now catlike stroking and wiping his head and face and  large moveless eyes then with his hinder limbs performing the  like operation on his wings and body Laugh at us who  laugh may sympathy with the meanest thing in adversity  needs no countenance from great names but if it did we might  shelter our bit of sentiment from the shafts of ridicule under  the broad shield of Wordsworth the great and good who  wrote the lines of our motto and also the following part of the  same poem on a forlorn fly tempted to his stove in Germany  on one of the coldest days of the last century 1799 After  contrasting his own warm comforts not indeed of a cheerful  fireside but of loving companionship with the shivering and  solitary estate of the Fly he continues   Yet God is my witness thou small helpless thing  Thy life I would gladly sustain  Till summer come hack from the south and with crowds  Of thy brethren a march thou shouldst sound thro the clouds  And back to the forests again  The poet was young when he wrote these lines but he in  whom the child was father to the man would not  disclaim them now that he is old  If the fly were endowed with only an atom of human  perception and human vanity nothing could be more natural  than her supposing with the little selfimportant busybody of  La Fontaines fable quelle fait alter la machine f not  merely that lumbering machine in the days of f le grand  monarque dept a coach but la machine du monde to  the progress of which she might well imagine her own march  and the march of flies in general to be necessary or mainly  instrumental How could flies think otherwise did they but  know that their own mode of progression their own method  of walking against gravity has been made a subject of most  grave discussion and profound enquiry amongst the Scientific of  Society Of this more anon but in very grave reality and as  we have already slightly noticed the agency of Flies is much  more powerful and important than most people think for in  assisting the progressive economy of our world of nature Its   wheels within wheels of natural machinery which would  otherwise be getting for ever clogged and impeded even to  mortal stagnation by impurities of every description are pre  served in great measure comparatively clean and in good  working order by the labours of the Fly which like those of  numerous other minor agents performed for their own little  ends are made by the Grand Mover of all things conducive to  a grand use The Flys purpose in nature says a modern  author is to consume various substances which are given out  by the human body by articles of food and almost every  animal and vegetable production when in a state of change  and given out in such small quantities that they are not  perceptible to common observers neither removeable by the  ordinary means of cleanliness even in the bestkept apartment  Under this view of extensive uses for which its structure and  habits are alike admirably adapted as well as for each other  both are well worthy of general observation and in no wise  beneath the scrutiny of scientific and what is more of sensible  people The mechanism even of a Elys foot thus regarded  we shall never be disposed to look back upon a Sir Joseph  Banks a Sir Everard Home or a pious Derham when busied  in its examination as upon children of a larger growth  curiously pulling toys to pieces and then remembering by  whom that mechanism was constructed we shall not be  surprised on finding that observers even such as these seem  after all to have been at fault as to its true principle On the  credit of their great authority books without number have  explained and still continue to tell us how the Ely walks  against gravity with equal ease upon a surface rough or smooth  upon our windows as upon our walls upon the ceiling as upon  the floor with back downwards and with back upwards and  yet as it would appear they have all told us wrong They have  said and asserted as proved beyond a doubt that the sole secret  of a Elys marvellous walk and hold is a vacuum the vacuum  produced by certain organs called suckers attached to  the end of the foot which either adheres by atmospheric  pressure or is left free to rise as these suckers re alternately  expanded or contracted Yet would it seem that in this  plausible doctrine of vacuity there may be a congenial nothing  after all its supposed facts of foundation seeming to vanish  before the asserted power of our little pedestrian to traverse  the sides and stick fast to the dome of an exhausted receiver  If then it be not by a vacuum by what something is it that  she does retain her hold Mr Blackwall who tried the  experiment of the receiver found also that a Ply enfeebled by  cold or other causes would climb with difficulty the sides of a  glass ascended before with perfect ease Further he observed  that Flies unable to stand back downwards on highly polished  bodies were able to do so on those slightly soiled and from  these and other observations considers that the apparatus  whereby they effect their hold is quite mechanical and closely  analogous to the pulvilli or fine hair brushes of other Insects  used as holders or supporters This modern notion nearly  agrees with that set forth almost 200 years ago by a Dr Power  who says that the Fly is provided with six legs and walks  on four The two foremost she uses as hands wherewith to  wipe her mouth and nose and take up what she eats her  other four feet are cloven and armed with little claws by which  she fastens on rugosities and asperities of all bodies like a  Catamount She is also furnished with a kind of fuzzy  substance like little sponges these are our suckers with  which nature hath lined the soles of her feet which substance  is also repleated with a white viscous liquid squeezed out at  pleasure to glew herself to the surface This aid of glutinous  secretion except in a very slight degree is now denied to the  performances of our wonderful climber au reste the notion of  our old Philosopher knocked down by the vacuum as if by  an air gun seems now set up again But are we assured  seeing how long mistaken notions will maintain their footing  that even now we are perfectly correct about the footing of the  Fly  A Fly on the wing is a no less curious object than one on  foot yet when do we trouble our heads about it except as a  thing which troubles us The most obvious wonder of its flight  is its variety of direction most usually forwards with the back  upwards like a bird but on occasion backwards with the back  downwards as when starting from the window and alighting  on the ceiling Marvellous velocity is another of its charac  teristics By fair comparison of sizes what is the swiftness of  a racehorse clearing his mile a minute to the speed of the Fly  cutting through her third of the same distance in the same  time t And what the speed of our steaming giants the grand  puffers of the age compared with the swiftness of our tiny  buzzers of whom a monster train scenting their game afar  may even follow partridges and pheasants on the wings  of steam in their last flight as friendly offerings But  however with their game the Flies themselves would be most   in keeping on an atmospheric line a principal agent in  their flight as well as in that of other Insects being the air  This enters from the breathing organs of their bodies into the  nerves and muscles of their wings from which arrangement  their velocity depends not alone on muscular power but  also on the state of the atmosphere  How does a Fly buz is another question more easily asked  than answered With its wings to be sure hastily replies  one of our readers with its wings as they vibrate upon the  air responds another with a smile half of contempt half of  complacency at his more than common measure of Natural  Philosophy But how then let us ask can the Great Dragon  Fly and other similar broadpinioned rapidflying Insects  cut through the air with silent swiftness while others go on  buzzing when not upon the wing at all Bennie who has  already put this posing query himself ascribes the sound  partly to air but to air as it plays on the edges of the wings  at their origin as with an Eolian harpstring or to the friction  of some internal organ on the roots of the wings nervures  Lastly how does the Fly feed P the busy curious thirsty  Fly that drinks with me but does not drink as I  his sole instrument for eating and drinking being his trunk  or sucker the narrow pipe by means of which when let  down upon his dainties he is enabled to imbibe as much as  suits his capacity This trunk might seem an instrument  convenient enough when inserted into a saucer of syrup or  applied to the broken surface of an overripe blackberry but  we often see our sipper of sweets quite as busy on a solid lump  of sugar which we shall find on close inspection growing   small by degrees under his attack How without grinders  does he accomplish the consumption of such crystal condiment  A magnifier will solve the difficulty and show how the Fly  dissolves his rock Hannibal fashion by a diluent a salivary  fluid passing down through the same pipe which returns the  sugar melted into syrup  Dear readers we have been trying to do something of the  same kind to melt down a modicum from the mass of obser  vations you might possibly consider it a dry one collected by  the curious concerning that not unimportant atom in creation  called a Fly But though our modicum may be but as a drop  of syrup to a whole sugarloaf some of you perchance it may  have already cloyed and to some even have been tinctured  strongly with poppy extract Sugar however as every artist  in that plastic material well knows can be made to assume  every variety of shape and hue so may the sweets of know  ledge be moulded into every form and painted of every colour  and must be to make them palatable Hitherto we have but  melted the unsullied substance drawn from fact presently  we may try to colour it and present you with a painted  sugarplum of fiction wherein the centre the place of the  carraway shall still be occupied by a Fly Meanwhile let us  admonish you that Plies are not all of the same form and  species There are black Plies and bine Plies green Plies  tind particoloured Plies big Plies and little Plies and here  we must notice that the age of young Plies is by no means  like that of young people to be estimated by their size  The Ply is a perfect Insect or Imago having already  passed through its two preparatory stages of transformation  those of Larva and Pupa see vignette corresponding to what  with the Butterfly is more generally known as Caterpillar and  Chrysalis so that like the Butterfly when winged it grows  no more Those middlesized Ply gentry also nearly equal  sized which form the main body of our parlour visitants are  altogether a different species to those of much lesser or greater  magnitude such as some tiny frequenters of flowers the  bouncing Bluebottle and the black and greychequered Blow  Ply those pests preeminent of the larder which as every  cook knoweth are neither   Hatched on the road nor in the stable bred  Numerous gay coloured varieties may be seen between spring  and autumn and in September nearly all together grouped in a  tableau vivant settled and sipping on the honied clusters of  the Michaelmas daisy that last starry heaven of their existence  at all events for the year Later still towards the end of Oc  tober and beginning of November when taking a noonday walk  under a southern ivycrested wall you may be sure to see some  or all of them come out to meet you from their dark green bush  of shelter Even now if yon examine closely between the wall  and the bearded ivy stems which embrace it yon may detect  behind them many a refugee of the revolutionary year and you  may perhaps be rewarded for your trouble by turning out from  the same shelter in lieu of a sleepy Ely a hybernating Butterfly  Startling the eye  With unexpected beauty   Once more to our picture You know we suppose that the  Ely has a pair of wings but a hundred to one if one of you  out of a hundred has ever noticed that she has also a pair of  winglets or little secondary wings and a pair of poisers  drumstick like appendages between the main wings and the  body employed for assisting and steadying her flight These  poisers are much more conspicuous and easily observed without  a magnifier in the Gnat and in the Eather Longlegs insects  belonging to the same order as Elies  Did it ever occur to you to notice the prismatic painting of  a Elys nervous pinion the iridescent colours wherewith its  glassy membrane seems overlaid If not only look we pray  you in a proper light at the next of its kind you may chance  to meet with and if as is most likely it comes to tell you  a pleasant tale of approaching spring time we are verily sure  that you will see a hundred rainbows painted on its wing  That   Great events from little causes spring  is a truth which we have all learnt fifty times over from  book and from experience Pope Adrian the 4th under his  plain English name of Nicholas Breakspear is recorded to  have been choked while drinking by a Ely which says old  Euller in the large territory of St Peters patrimony had no  other place to get into Now since a real Ely stands thus  chronicled in history as having marred the golden fortunes of a  mighty prince surely we may be permitted in romance to make  an imaginary Ely a grand agent in mending the iron luck of an  humble Poet  Our friend H had the misfortune to be cast up a poet  on the stream of Life since in this age of mechanism it  has been turned into a millstream Consequently he found  himself held as a mere bubble in the froth or scum of society  and his residence accorded perfectly with such estimation He  was the highest occupant of a house in a low London neighbour  hood where nevertheless he was looked down upon as a nobody  and no wonder for next beneath him in descending order a  dancing master demonstrated for sixpence a lesson the position  that manners make the man under him albeit above him a  tailor on the first floor exemplified by a flourishing trade that   clothes make the man while a pawnbroker in the shop  below proved beyond a doubt by his golden rule of three that   money makes the man It followed therefore that our  hapless scribbler scant of money scant of clothes and  from an awkward consciousness of such deficiencies by no means  free and easy in his manners was set down by his land  lord the man of money and by his fellow lodgers the man of  catgut and the man of cloth as nothing like a man at all but  a mere bubble as aforesaid in the scum of society  Yet as bubbles even soap bubbles will sometimes rise  heavenwards with a luminous display of rainbow colours so there  were seasons when the spirits of this nonentity would rise from  his skyparlour to the sky above him and return with some  obsolete and childlike notion that God makes the man and  that he had been made in a mould at least as perfect as his  fellows There were moments even when this inflating con  sciousness would come drest in prismatic hues and when the  same nonentity would fondly fancy that the sun of the world  now hidden from his view behind the clouds of friendlessness  and want would one day burst forth upon the bubbles of his  fancy as they ascended balloonlike amidst the applause of  approving thousands  Poor H was a worker in the treadmill of low periodicals  wherein for ever climbing each weary round of the month and  year left him just where he was at the beginning but in spite  of this his daily labour he had taken hours which should have  been of rest for independent composition One poem a  ponderous epic with his name on the titlepage had already  been sent abroad into the world but it had gone forth like its  author unfriended ill drest patron wanting paper and printing  paltry Its reception was accordant if H had thrown a  stone out of his garret window the passing multitude at least  if it had fallen harmless as his poem could only have trodden  on or over it the same Yet was he still sanguine and would  still believe that his neglected work stonelike as he proudly  fancied in solid merit might one day serve for a pedestal  whereon his laurelled statue might be planted But few are  the pedestals formed of a single stone To complete his he  must he thought lay one upon another so lighted to his  labour by the flicker of hopes torch and the flare of tallow  candle he went on working blockhead as he was through  many a fireless winters night at another ponderous block of  literature a second epic poem  Bouglihewn thus in winter he had carved on it in spring  new forms of his creative imagination summer had been  employed on their adornment and with the summers last roses  he had bestowed the last flowery touches on his darling work  It was the afternoon of a sultry first of August magazine  day just over the hireling had got a respite from his daily  drudgery He had employed it on the favourite labour of his  brain but that was ended his epic was actually completed even  to the last word of the last line of the last fair copy which was  about to be exchanged for notes and notice  The poet wiped his pen with an air of complacency then  wiped his thin face threw himself back in his rushbottomed  chair and with halfclosed eyes still bent upon his manuscript  his bulky embodiment of thought indulged in a delicious  reverie Tew sounds from the world without ever reached  the back garret of No Court but from the little world  within itself frequent voices and rumblings from below often  reminded the dweller on its upper surface of vital agencies at  work beneath him Yet on this blessed day of August t every  sound was at rest the dancing master and his class had made  a party to practice the polka on the deck of a Richmond  steamer the tailor had also been tempted to seek the water  and his journeymen taking advantage of his absence had given  the goose a holiday on dry land Tor once all conspired to  encourage the poets daydream when it was suddenly broken  by the unlookedfor entrance of his tea In general our son  of the Muses was compelled to descend himself from his high  Parnassus to the lower regions and invoke the stern Proserpine  there presiding for his share of the boiling Phlegethon but  this day it so happened that in the absence of its betters the  garret was remembered and that at the moment when most it  wished itself forgotten The black kettle was placed on the red  rusted hob a quarter of a pound of salt butter fresh from the  shop was deposited plateless but mind ye not paperless on  the table and then the Proserpine as if the heat had melted  and softened her down into an attendant Hebe proceeded to a  corner cupboard drew forth the tray and teathings placed and  replaced them as if by dint of clatter to reconcile the dis  cordant hues of basin cup and saucer and in process of time  and torment set them on the table Still she lingered perhaps  awaiting recompense of some sort for such surprising works of  supererogation At all events the poet seemed to think so for he  drew from his pocket a shilling we believe it was his last and  put it into the Hebes swarthy hand A curtsey lower than  the back garret had ever witnessed and the recipients speedy  exit were the donors reward Mechanically he proceeded to  make his tea in other words to set afloat a tiny raft in a tepid  ocean then resumed his position and tried also to unravel his  gilded thread of thought but alas it had been snapped  asunder by the lumbering slipshod tread of the workaday witch  his bright visions had all faded before her evil eye and the  silence which her confounded clatter had put to flight was not  to return again for scarcely were his fretted nerves composed  and the creaking stair relieved from her heavy tread when from  some point unseen arose the voice of an abominable Ely Buz  buz buz louder than buz was ever heard before The poet  looked towards the small window of his skyparlour which  libelling the term admitted from where he sat only a view of  sunbaked roofs surmounted by the broad side of a lofty stack  of chimneys and though wide open scarcely a mouthful of the  heated air which air was none But no Fly was there  bouncing against the dim green glass too dim and dusty to  be mistaken even by a Fly for the thin pure ether H  then rose and examined the dark corners of the room with its  cobweb hangings lest perchance some hapless prisoner might  be detained therein but no an attenuated spider her body  wasted like his own by useless toils was their only living  occupant Yet buz buz buz resounded even louder  shriller than before Confound it cried the bewildered poet  and then rushed desperately to the corner cupboard the sole  lurking place left unexplored But what had Flies to do with  empty cupboards with poets larders Buz buz buz  again rose as if in mockery at the very thought He returned  hopeless to his chair perhaps it was fancy after all but  whether bred of fancy or of Fly the sound had sufficed wholly  to demolish the luminous web of thought whose first threads had  been broken by the untimely entrance of his tea To his tea  therefore he applied himself in hopes perhaps that it might  recompose if it failed to reexhilarate The tea or the teapot  did certainly inspire one thought perhaps that tormenting   buz had been only the concluding stanza of the kettles  song Absurd idea the more so in that the kettle had never  sung at all it seldom sings in lodginghouses and on garret  floors it has no heart to sing The tea even flat and vapid as  his mind might have told him so and presently the Flys  voice seemingly silenced rose louder still closer than ever to  repeat buz buz buz that a Fly and nothing else was at  the bottom of the mystery Though in its monotony the very  same yet did that last buz sound in the poets ear as something  different to all those that had gone before they had annoyed  provoked angered him but now the uplifting of that hidden  voice absolutely frightened him To his prostrate spirits just  toppled from their unaccustomed height it almost sounded  ominous of ill That buz buz buz was like the woe woe  woe denounced in her day of doom against the proud  Jerusalem not prouder in stately dome and lofty tower  than of late his airbuilt castles A feeling of sickness came  over him not entirely either from fear of Fly or fear of Fate  but from nothing having passed his lips since the hour of his  scanty breakfast even to the present of seven post meridiem  of the first of August  The Faster fancy fed seemed at last reminded of this fact  and betook himself with what appetite he might to his rigid  loaf his melting butter He cuts a slice he proceeds hear it  Apollo with fingers that have touched thy sacred lyre to unfold  the printed leaf wherein the dissolving condiment lay curtained  But not alone lay that butter in its melting luxury a ravisher  detained in soft imprisonment had been feasting on its charms  and now out he bounces with a buz indeed and buz buz  buz reechoes round as a burly Bluebottle tipsy with love  and jollity mad at escape from thraldom or merry at discovery  bangs up and bounces again and again against the unopened  because unopening half of the garret casement  The mystery is out yet the Poet stands aghast fixed as in  a stupor of horror and dismay He scarcely notices the  escaped offender the buz of Bluebottle now falls unheeded on  his ear the bouncings of Bluebottle attract not his eye for his  eye is strained on more appalling objects on the printed  envelope of rancid butter on the titlepage of his first inde  pendent and avowed production on his own dishonoured name  conspicuous in the transparency of grease This then was the  publicity acquired by his first great work and there torn from  its very self was the sibylline leaf which had told in the warning  buz of that prophetic Ply the coming fate of his second his still  greater work so laboured so exquisitely finished Pinished  it is finished indeed with hope with effort So spoke more  plainly than could words the deep drawn sigh with which poor  H resumed his seat not we may be sure to taste his  illsavoured bread and butter but only to sip his cold tea as  if to swallow down with it something of chagrin or to sip in  something of consolation  It was growing dusk the time of day when poor was accustomed whenever he stole an hour from his toil to  stroll countrywards in the direction of green fields which as  they grew more and more remote he rarely enough contrived  to reach But this evening he had no heart to leave his garret  and not a breath of air came over the heated housetops to  tempt him forth The atmosphere sultry heavy motionless  seemed to press with equal weight upon mind and body  Silence still reigned within the house a silence palpable  painful almost fearful to the sensation of the excited and  exhausted Poet as he sat nervebound to his chair could he  have risen he would have almost started at the creaking of the  crazy floor under his own tread yet he would have given  worlds for a sound to indicate any other living presence besides  his own The scrape of the secondfloor fiddle would for  once have been sweet music in his ear the kitchen Proserpines  ascent with his candle from the shades below would have  been hailed as the presence of an Angel of Light nay the  hateful buz of that detested Ply would now but for its  spectral association with a deed of murder for he had tipped it  in a fit of passion off the brink of the milkpot have sounded  cheerily welcome But the dead stillness remained unbroken  and as if its own pressure combined with the burthen of the  sultry atmosphere were not sufficient to crush the Poets lately  soaring spirit his nerves now conjured up another incubus of  oppression palpable to sight as were the others to ear and  feeling With the sensations of weight overpowering stillness  appalling arose a fanciful augmentation of bulk investing  with magnitude miraculous each dimly discerned object which  lay on the deal table between his eye and the window The  completed manuscript in reality thick enough seemed  swelled into a ponderous tome whose very bulk appeared to  shadow forth its downfall from inherent gravity The fragment  of Cork butter seemed augmented to a mountain from whence  streams were slowly trickling on the dishonoured page that  page now an enormous greaseilluminated scroll printed in  gigantic characters which all who ran might read And in  proportion to the flyleaf the My itself floated a swollen corpse  in a cup large enough to drown its destroyer And see  swollen as he is and hideous that monster My is coming back  to life He struggles to the edge of the lacteal flood lifts  above it his large hairy head made up of dull red eyes stretches  forth his elephantine trunk growing long and long and  longer raises his thin black arms and stands a giant on the  edge of the milky pool Then flapping the drops in a shower  from his dripping pinions he raises a buz deep deafening as  of a thousand buzzes all in one and darting forward pounces  right upon the Poets heaving heart  One day towards the end of the same August whose first  was made as we have just commemorated a big blackletter  day in our Poets calendar he was called on in the midst of  his heaviness to furnish something light just to puff out what  would else have been a slender number of the Milliners  Magazine In the same parlour under much such a heavy sky  before him the same sorry equipage for tea beside him a like  bit of melting butter nothing would have been wanted but  the Ely defunct the flyleaf burned the manuscript burned too  to bring back to its authors mind had it been ever absent that  notable era when his second grand Epic was completed There  he sat like the distressed Poet of the Moral Painter like  him might have plunged for his thought and like him have   found no bottom there only that to save diving he seized  the lightsome object brought vividly to remembrance with all  its heavy associations by the scene the hour and the weather  In short he caught again that villain Ply and committed him  in the following strain once more to paper  THE ELY AND THE POET  Dark were the cares of the Poets breast  Grand were the thoughts of his head  But sad thoughts and grand ones must all be represt  For he had to write nonsense for bread  Proud w r as the curl on the Poets lip  And big w r as the tear in his eye  Scarce he saw in the inkstand his pen to dip  But he saw on its summit a Ely  There Bluebottle sat and stroked down his face  With a twirl of his head twice or thrice  Then says he Brother bard I pity your case   And have brought you a bit of advice   Nay man never wince I heed not your scorn   Tis a fact and Ill presently show it   That if not as you think yourself Poet born   Im by place and by feeding a Poet   I come from a spot where the fruit of the vine   And the oil of the olive abound   Where Arabia and India their riches combine   And shed spiciest of odours around   High over blue mountains with snowy white tips   I wander but use your own eyes   Only look round the shop where you go for your dips   And youll see the Parnassus of Flies   And now for my council thus rich the domain   Whence I draw inspiration and bread   But by lightness not weight I this empire maintain   And by emptiness stand on my head   While others cant climb using infinite pains   I gravity turning to jest   Ascend with all ease perpendicular planes   Rough or smooth just as pleases me best   So try lightness friend Poet I warrant youll find   That as I rule matter so you may rule mind  THE GNAT A LIFE OF BUOYANCY   En toutes saisons danser cest ma vie  There are certain temperaments which hard as iron are only  acted on precisely like that sturdy metal by atmospheric  changes In dull damp weather they gather an additional  coat of rustiness or crustiness while the finest and driest fails  to produce any visible effect upon their aspect or temper  When however one grain of mental mercury enters into their  compound our spirits cannot choose but rise at the exhila  rating influence of a bright winters morning Besides the  effects merely physical of a clear bracing frost the sunshine  of January if it warms us less cheers us more than the  sunshine of June through the force of contrast contrast with  the gloom which has gone before and is sure to come after  contrast with the dark wintry objects on which it shines and  perhaps more than all contrast with that peculiar stillness  which usually attends fair weather at this season a stillness  perceptible both to eye and ear and produced partly by the  quiet of the tuneful groves but quite as much by the absence  of those Insect myriads which animate the summer beam This  very stillness is exciting because our ideas of light and life being  always associate it seems on a bright day strange and almost  unnatural Through a silent sunshine of this description we  repaired yesterday morning to an oak wood which is one of  our favourite places of resort and research This wood till  lately was a sylvan assemblage of most ancient standing but  is now composed almost wholly of comparative upstarts  exulting in their vigorous life over the truncated stumps below  them But even these the monuments of fallen greatness  substantial in decay stood not a whit more motionless than  the slenderest sapling of the living generation not a breath  being abroad to wave their tops or to stir the brown leaves  which had held on laughing at autumn gales and wintry  blasts A sprinkle of snow crisp and glittering slightly  veiled the wood tracks and as we trod them we heard not a  sound but the brittle gems breaking on the spangled path  way This was exactly the stillness we have just been noting  as an addition usually to the effect or mute expression of  old winters face when he treats us to its brightest side but  somehow or another we felt it on the present occasion more  as a feature wanting Our spirits were so light our blood  danced so briskly our heart glowed like our feet so warmly  and rose so thankfully to the Great Source of all things calm  and bright and beautiful that we longed for something ani  mate to join us in our homage of enjoyment The wish was  hardly conceived ere it was accomplished for on passing  beneath a canopy of low interlacing branches we suddenly  found ourselves making one with a company of Gnats dancing  though more mutely quite as merrily as they could possibly  have footed it on the balmy air of a summers eve Their  appearance was welcome to our eyes not as flowers in May  but as flowers in January and so we sat down on one of the  oaken stumps hard by to watch their evolutions Mazy and  intricate enough in sooth they seemed yet these lightwinged  figurantes little as one might think it would seem to have   measure in their mirth aye and mathematics too for it is  stated as a fact that no three of these dancers can so place  themselves that lines joining their point of position shall form  either more or less than two right angles The set upon  which we had intruded was an assemblage of those Tipulidan  or longlegged Gnats which have been named Telltales we  suppose because by their presence in winter they seem to tell  a tale of early spring belied by the bitter east which often  tells us another story when we turn from their sheltered saloon  of assembly In this sense however these are not the only  Telltales of their kind for quite as common at the same  season are some other parties of aerial dancers one of which  we fell in with soon after we had taken leave of the first  These were tiny sylphs with black bodies and wings of snow  white gauze and like choice spirits black white and grey  for they wore plumes of the latter colour they were greeting  the still New Year with mirth and revelry and that over a  frozen pool whose icy presence one would have fancied quite  enough for their instant annihilation But though warmed  by exercise these merry mates care so little for the cold  without they are glad enough when occasion serves to profit  by the shelter of our windows In ours we often watch them  and you good reader had better seek for them unless you  would miss the sight of as pretty and elegant a little creature  as any one could desire to look at on a fine summers much  more a winters day We have spoken of the plumes of these  winged revellers black white and grey which dance in the  air as merrily as the Quakers wife in the song but here be it  observed that our Gnats wives with real quakerlike sobriety  rarely if ever dance at all and never by any accident wear  feathers They may do worse as we shall perhaps discover  byandby but as for plumes in poetic parlance feathered  antlers in scientific pectinate antenna these are decorations of vanity exclusively confined among all Gnats to the  masculine gender Gnats balls therefore contrary to usual  custom are made up of beaux   T is merry in tine hall when beards wag all  says a morose proverb steeped in the boozing barbarism of  days gone by and these ungallant Flies would seem still to  think it merry in the air when their dames are not there  Apropos of dancing we may here mention one peculiar mode  of Gnat practice which came the other day under our observation It may have been remarked before or it may not at  all events our note is in season and will serve if for nothing  else to illustrate the assertion that a habit of noticing Insect  movements may often amuse a stray minute which might  otherwise be wholly lost in vacancy Well one of these  sportive gentry having made itself free of our parlour  presently deserted the window and came to suspend itself in  air directly over the cage of our favourite canary which was  placed on a table near the fire Here with incredible activity  and perseverance the Insect kept up its pas dextase alternately rising and falling for more than half an hour without  intermission never deviating from its position over the little  musicians head but evidently coming lower so as almost to  touch the top of the cage whenever the bird renewed its  occasionally broken song The attraction of the latter was  unquestionable its cause dubious also whether of an indivi  dual or general character If general may it not be that by  a sort of pleasure derived from the notes or other alluring  influence exercised by singingbirds these Gnats by nature  the prey of so many are attracted to approach and hover  within reach of their syren enemies   When the sun shines let foolish Gnats make sport  But creep in crannies when he hides his beams  now this is an allusion in which our Bard of Avon fails to  display his usual most accurate observation of natural objects  Though courting the winter gleam every body can tell that  Gnats by no means hide their heads with the summer sun for  they seem to rejoice at his setting as much as at his rising in  his absence as well as in his presence In short at every hour  as at every season Bansez toujours seems their motto up  and down in and out and round about in the morning noon  and evening of our day as in the morning noon and evening  of their own existence  But stay here we are arrived at the end of our dance nay  at the end of our dancers lives without having said a word  about their beginning Well we have nothing for it but to  go backwards jumping over the steps already made up to the  premier pas our aerial performers birth and parentage Even  this though will hardly do since for the sake of the unin formed it may be well to preface our memoir by a word or  two on the subject of Insect Transformation Everybody we  conclude has a general notion concerning the passage of a  Butterfly through the successive stages of caterpillar chrysalis  and winged flatterer Then only let it be borne in mind  that all perfect Insects have passed through three states cor  responding though not similar which are yclept by Entomo  logists those of Larva Pupa and Imago  Now for the beginning of the Gnats life of Buoyancy  which commences on the water Man has been believed by  the nations of antiquity to have  Learned of the little Nautilus to sail  Spread the thin oar and catch the rising gale  but he might also have taken a first lesson in boatbuilding  from an object common in almost every pond though certainly  not so likely to attract attention as the sailing craft of that  bold mariner the little Argonaut This object is a boat of  eggs not a boat eggladen nor yet that witchs transport an  eggshell boat but a buoyant lifeboat curiously constructed  of her own eggs by the common Gnat How she begins and  completes her work may be seen by any one curious enough  and wakeful enough to repair by five or six in the morning to  a pond or bucket of water frequented by Gnats and those  who would rather see through other eyes than their own  especially when perhaps half open may read in the pages of  Reaumur or Rennie t full descriptions of this mother boat  builders clever operations The boat itself with all we are  going to describe and all we have depicted from the life  may be seen at home and at all hours within the convenient  compass of a basin filled from an adjacent pond When  complete the boat consists of from 250 to 350 eggs of which  though each is heavy enough to sink in water the whole com  pose a structure perfectly buoyant so buoyant as to float  amidst the most violent agitation What is yet more wonderful  though hollow it never fills with water and even if we push it  to the bottom of our mimic pool it will rise unwetted to the  surface This cunning craft has been likened to a London  wherry being sharp and high fore and aft convex below  concave above and always floating on its keel In a few days  each of the numerous lives within having put on the shape  of a grub or Larva issues from the lower end of its own flask  shaped egg but the empty shells continuing still attached the  boat remains a boat till reduced by weather to a wreck  Here let us leave it and follow the fortunes of one of the crew  after he has left his cabin which he quits in rather a singular  manner emerging through its bottom into the water Happily  however he is born a swimmer and can take his pleasure in  his native element poising himself near its surface head down  wards tail upwards Why chooses he this strange position  Just for the same reason that we rather prefer when taking a  dabble in the waves to have our heads above water for the  convenience namely of receiving a due supply of air which  the little swimmer in question sucks in through a sort of tube  in his tail This breathing apparatus as well as the tail itself  serves also for a buoy and both end in a sort of funnel com  posed of hairs arranged in a starlike form and anointed with  an oil by which they repel water When tired of suspension  near the surface our little swimmer has only to fold up these  divergent hairs and plump he sinks down to the bottom He  goes however provided with the means of reascension a  globule of air which the oil enables him to retain at his funnels  ends on reopening which he again rises whenever the fancy  takes him But yet a little while and a new era arrives in  the existence of this buoyant creature buoyant in his first  stage of Larva in his second of Pupa he is buoyant still  Yet in resemblance how unlike But lately topsyturvy his  altered body first assumes what we should call its natural  position and he swims head upwards because within it there  is now contained a different but equally curious apparatus for  inhaling the atmospheric fluid Seated behind his head arises  a pair of respirators not very much unlike the aural appendages  of an ass to which they have been compared and through these  he feeds on air requiring now no grosser aliment At his  nether extremity there expands a fishlike finny tail by help of  which he can either float or strike at pleasure through the  water  Thus passes with our buoyant Pupa the space of about a  week and then another and a more important change comes   oer the spirit of his dream With the gradual development  of superior organs the little spark of sensitivity within seems  wakened to a new desire to rise upwards Bed for a season upon  air the insects desires seem to have grown aerian While a  noonday snn is warm upon the water as yet his native element  he rises to the surface and above it elevating both head and  shoulders as if gasping for the new enjoyments which await  him His breast swells as it were with the sweet antici  pation his confining corslet bursts and the head not that  which has played its part on the stage of being now about to  close but another all plumed and decorated for a more  brilliant theatre emerges through the rent followed by the  shoulders and the filmy wings which are to play upon the  air But have a care my little debutant thou art yet  upon the water an unlucky somerset would wet thy still soft  and drooping pinions and render them unfit for flight Now  is thy critical moment hold thee steady lose not thy per  pendicular or But why fear we for the little mariner  He who clothes the lily and feeds the sparrow has provided  him support in this his point of peril The stiff covering of  his recent form from which he is struggling to escape now  serves him as a lifeboat the second to which he will owe  liis safety His upright body forms its mast as well as sail  and in the breeze now rippling the water he is wafted rapidly  along He will assuredly be capsized from press of sail But  see he has acquired by this time other helps to aid his self  preserving efforts His slender legs hitherto hung pendant  now feel for and find the surface of the pool His boat is left  behind and still endowed with one aquatic power he stands a  moment on the water then rises buoyant a winged inhabitant  of air  So now we have brought our bold sailor into port and re  transformed him into a bolder aeronaut His performances in  the latter character as a dancer we have extolled already but  others of a graver nature for which he has the discredit still  remain for notice Yet think not gentle ladies that our  plumed Gnat gallant albeit so ungallant to his own fair one  ever settles on a sunny cheek or ever enters at door or window  with bloodthirsty intent Spare him therefore if not pour  V amour de ses beaux plumes at least for the sake of the  innocence they denote Let him finish his reel or his horn  pipe unmolested and reserve your vengeance for his shrewish  partner on whose plumeless head it will more justly fall Have  we not already hinted that though she seldom dances and  never wears feathers she has practices something worse and  she it is who while her spouse regales himself on nectar  quaffed from flowers or perhaps even is satisfied with a cha  meleon banquet she it is who longs for the red wine  each drop of which she repays with poison Hers are the   barbed shaft the whirring wings the dragon scales  against which you must invoke the protection of your guar  dian sylph or your pocket handkerchief But even in their  fiercest shape or in that most formidable a mingled swarm in  which the guilty and the guiltless in their company must as  in other cases alike bear the buffet we are seldom ourselves  inclined to visit Gnat offenders very roughly Even at the risk  of being taken for cousins once removed of the old lady whose  partiality for Fleas stands recorded we must confess to a  sneaking kindness for Gnats be they plumed or plumeless  honeysippers or bloodsuckers Not only at this season but  always we love their shrilly hum because it comes associate if  with one painful with many pleasant experiences and pleasant  memories such as of summer sunsets warm windowseats  and above all of such bright winter noondays as that on  which we yesterday attended their assembly beneath the   brown wood tree But of course we can plead only for  the Gnats of England not even for these in her countries of  morass and fen and only with Englands stay at home  daughters As for those who in colonial climates seek  matrimony and find Mosquitos who could attempt to propi  tiate their wounded sensibilities There where tropic suns  soften the heart of man and woman loves to stamp her image  on its wax like impressibility to retire to sleep a Yenus and  wake a Medusa a foul thing of bumps and blotches who  can wonder that under such a visitation the gentlest of bosoms  should swell with wrath and vengeance and who would dare  to deprecate the Nerolike desire that Mosquitos Gnats in all  their varieties and in all their countless myriads possessed but  one common body to be crushed to atoms beneath the sufferers  stamping foot  The following lively lines from the pen of that poet of  Nature the American Bryant cannot be deemed foreign to the  subject of these his native Gnats and they are moreover  suggestive to the ladies at home as well as abroad of a new  use to which they might apply the cosmetic mask of Bowland  manufacture That celebrated conservator of female charms  might do well to reprint them himself in form of an adver  tisement  TO A MOSQUITO  Fair Insect that with threadlike legs spread out  And bloodextracting bill and filmy wing  Dost murmur as thou slowly sailst about  In pitiless ears full many a plaintive thing  And tell how little our large veins should bleed  Would we but yield them to thy bitter need  Unwillingly I own and what is worse  Full angrily men hearken to thy plaint  Thou gettest many a brush and many a curse  For saying thou art gaunt and starved and faint  Een the old beggar while he asks for food  Would kill thee hapless stranger if he could  I call thee stranger for the Town I ween  Has not the honour of so proud a birth  Thou comst from Jersey meadows fresh and green  The offspring of the Gods tho born on earth  For Titan was thy sire and fair was she  The Ocean Nymph that nursed thy infancy  Beneath the rushes was thy cradle swung  And when at length thy gauzy wings grew strong  Abroad to gentle airs their folds were flung  Rose in the sky and bore thee soft along  The South wind breathed to waft thee on thy way  And danced and shone beneath the billowy bay  And calm afar the city spires arose  Thence didst thou hear the distant hum of men  And as its grateful odours met thy nose  Didst seem to smell thy native marsh again  Fair lay its crowded streets and at the sight  Thy tiny song grew shriller with delight  At length thy pinions fluttered in Broadway  Ah there were fairy steps and white necks kissed  By wanton airs and eyes whose killing ray  Shone through the snowy veils like stars thro mist  And fresh as morn on many a cheek and chin  Bloomd the bright blood thro the transparent skin  Oh these were sights to touch an anchorite  What do I hear thy slender voice complain  Thou wailest when I talk of Beautys light  As if it brought the memory of pain  Thou art a wayward being well come near  And pour thy tale of sorrow in my ear  What sayest thou slanderer rouge makes thee sick  And China Bloom at best is sorry food  And Rowlands Kalydor if laid on thick  Poisons the thirsty wretch that bores for blood  Got was a just reward that met thy crime  But shun the sacrilege another time  That bloom was made to look at not to touch  To worship not approach that radiant white  And well might sudden vengeance light on such  As dared like thee most impiously to bite  Thou shouldst have gazed at distance and admired  Murmured thy adoration and retired  We have spoken of Gnats and Mosquitos almost as one  because to ordinary observers there is very little exterior  difference between them though as naturalists have reckoned  near thirty species of the Culex or Gnat family in Britain alone  the pest of the Tropics and the Poles is no doubt a variety  And verily if these perpetual plagues in the air were the sole  evils attendant on fierce extremes of climate we should have  ample cause to bless our stars or rather bless our sun in  whose tempered beams our Mosquitos are but as harmless  motes compared with sparks of living fire Sparks of fire  what say we Sparks of fire nay showers of fireballs could  shew respect to the Great Washingtons boots yet are we told  that the General of freedom was pierced through his calfs skin  even to his calves by tyrant Mosquitos and that Italian  bloodsuckers of the shores of the Po great and terrible as  their western brethren can also plunge their stilettos through  a shield of leather backed by a defence of triple hose Well  might legionary demons armed like these have routed a Persian  army well might lions flee before them well might they  bequeath their conquering name Mosquito to country bay  and town in that quarter of the globe where chiefly they  usurp dominion and in another Polewards well may the Lap  land peasant encase himself in a cloud of smoke and the  Crimean soldier in his sack as a protection from envenomed  weapons thick as descending snowflakes and keen as the  cutting frost of their native winters These polar demons seem  endued too with almost demoniac vitality for northern  travellers record how that when frozen into black masses  resembling peat they have been thawed into a living cloud  It is really pleasant to turn from these foreign flagellators  of humanity here only noticed for the sake of contrast to our  gentler sporters in the sun and shade with a few of whose  varieties and vagaries we shall bid them for the present farewell  All those who are accustomed to make their ablutions in soft  water have probably noticed at the bottom of their ewers an  assemblage of dirtcoloured fuzzy streaks which on narrowly  watching they would find to be endued with the power of loco  motion Each of these objects as it meets the sight is nothing  but a case of dusty particles collected around it by a little  living occupant which on account of its colour has acquired  the sanguinary name of Bloodworm An eye unacquainted  with this unpromising object would as little expect to behold  evolved from it a creature of grace and beauty as to see a rose  expand from the stalk of a nettle yet after passing through the  intermediate stage of Pupa in which its breathing organs are  no less curiously adapted than those of the common species  this little worm emerges from the water in the shape of a small  Gnat whose elegant plumes surpassing those of its fellows  have acquired for it the accordant appellation of Chironimus  plumosus Some varieties of this pretty Ely waltz upon the  water or glide over its surface like the stately swan their  wings as with the bird serving them for the purpose of a sail  All Gnats however are not aquatic in their birth and early  stages one little orangecoloured species instead of awaking  into life surrounded by a liquid expanse finds itself within the  narrow bounds of a single wheat blossom the pollen of which  thanks to a careful mother provides for all its infant  necessities Mighty in their multitude a swarm of tiny feeders  such as these is said sometimes to destroy a crop of wheat  Such or in shapes but slightly varied is the Gnats existence  generally throughout its stages always in its perfect form  one of cheerful buoyancy We might do worse than take  pattern by its character To joy in every season of our fives  in sunshine and in shade to let the drops of affliction glide  from off our elastic spirits as the falling raindrops glide from  off the oily wings and agile bodies of the showerheedless in  sect this were indeed no bad philosophy but is it practised  rarely enough we fancy and with a sigh have reason to  admit Is it practicable P to a great extent we believe it is  either through the lightness of animal spirits or much better  through the resisting power of the moralmachinery within  us when obedient to that grand moving wheel which the  holy oil of divine aid and divine blessing ever keeps in play  Looking into real fife for an instance of a buoyant nature  the season helps to remind us would we could quote him as a  living example of Thomas Hood that mirthful son of genius  who under failing health and great cause for depressing care  could yet be harmlessly jocund all the year round while he  provided for so many of us now his mourners a rich banquet of  animal mirth A German philosopher has said that happiness  and misfortune stand in continual balance This is a cheering  reflection and more it is a fact continually brought home to  our individual experience by the reacfion of mental depression  and the lively inspirations of hope  Let us then with our Insect model strive to keep up our  buoyancy but let us beware of confounding levity with elas  ticity of mistaking the glare of worldly pleasure for the  sunshine of a cheerful heart Herein also does our little winged  philosopher furnish us with a warning as well as an example  He takes delight in his native atmosphere in sunshine or in rain  he is neither drowned by the one nor scorched by the other  But how often when he enters the precincts of artificial life is  he tempted to approach the alluring taper until drawn within  its fiery vortex his little life of buoyancy is on a sudden changed  to one of torture  THE WOODANT AND THE APHIDES   Povert a spectacle is as thiuketh me  Through which he may his very Frendis see Chaucer  In the midst of an oak wood stands a village or scattered  group of rustic habitations These are curiously excavated in  the earth above which rise their domelike roofs thatched in  a peculiar manner with pieces of stick and straw and each  is the common abode of a large community of various ranks  and orders In one of these sylvan dwellings there lived  and perhaps lives still a good sort of body a female member  of the working class who set a perfect pattern of industry  though to do them justice all her neighbours and fellow  lodgers those at least of the same rank were shaped in like  fashion and out of the same useful stuff as herself She was  not only indefatigable in the feminine cares of nursing and atten  dance on the young and weakly but was also an adept in various  toilsome occupations such as building digging and foraging  labours always performed by herself and sisterhood after the  custom of some remote countries called barbarous as well as  more or less of certain others much nearer home which are  miscalled civilized To all her laudable activity it might have  been naturally expected that our useful busybody would have  added a portion of such prudent forethought as would have  secured to herself a certain provision against the approach of  winter a season which interrupted her labours and nearly cut  off her supplies but no such thing the most heedless lover of  pleasure that ever tripped it in a ballroom or fluttered from  flower to flower could not possibly have taken less thought  for the morrow than our toiling villager Often at work not  only from morn till eve but from eve till dewy morn she had  turned as it were the summer into one long day and seemed  to think that she had thereby acquired a title to convert the  winter or as much of it as she chose into one long night  At all events both she and her fellowlabourers had earned the  right of which they were never defrauded of being as warmly  lodged during the inclement season as their betters those  at least for whom they had been toiling and whose habitation  they shared as well as built Accordingly when December  arrived and with it a frost of intense severity our busybody  shut herself up in her warm underground quarters and having  no doubt taken first a complacent review of her wellspent  summer day fell into a comfortable dose and from thence into  a slumber profound as that fabled of the Seven Sleepers So  deep and long her nap that the merry Christmas bells did not  wake her nor yet the shouts of merrier children when they  came trampling and jumping over head to gather the scarlet  holly berries which abound near her habitation On went  the frost and with it on went the good housewifes com  fortable snooze but one day the sharp northeast having  whistled his own lullaby his brother the soft southwest arose  to do duty in his stead The sun at the same time drew aside  his fog curtain and shone out so bright and warm as to pene  trate even to our sleepers underground chamber She felt its  reviving power and with a yawn and a stretch which if com  mensurate with the duration of her slumbers must have been  of tremendous length she rubbed her eyes and awoke Like  the sluggard however though sluggard she was none she  turned and tried to sleep again but it would not do certain  uneasy sensations not very difficult to account for after a six  weeks abstinence soon drove away all her drowsiness She  would certainly have arisen and have gone to her cupboard  only that with her the comforts and consolations of a corner  cupboard were mysteries unknown Nevertheless awake up  she did and looked round upon her friends the companions  of her slumber but not as yet of her wakefulness and she  was too kind to rouse them knowing she should thereby only  bring them into the same strait of hunger as herself How to  get out of it she hardly knew but instead of sitting or lying  down again to consider she stept up to the entrance of her  dwelling or we should rather say one of them since it had  almost as many as the farfamed residence of John o Groat  These however had been according to custom all carefully  barred up on the setting in of the frost so that all alone she  had to take down one of the barricades she had assisted to  erect and this done though not without some effort she was  able to take a peep at the outward world from which she had  been so long retired And a beautiful world it was all dressed  in white and begemmed with diamonds sparkling in the noon  day sun as they fell from the boughs faster than leaves in  autumn Strange as it may seem our sleeper awakened had  never in all her life seen it so dressed out before and if she  had not been rather cold and very hungry she might perhaps  have stood lost in admiration at the fine dissolving views  around her yet perhaps not either for she had always a  better eye for business than for the picturesque Besides she  had been thinking of what to do and in so doing had be  thought her of a certain large family with whom her own had  long been upon the most intimate and social footing and by  whom indeed both herself and friends had often been regaled  even when they had gone in a large party to claim hospitality  It would have seemed hard indeed had such hospitality been  ever grudged by these their neighbours to one or any among  the inhabitants of our village in the wood for often under  their strawthatched roofs had the children of the former been  tenderly fostered even from their birth a kind office in which  you may be sure our good little body had not been backward  to assist Some folks however are always groping for the  worm of selfishness at the roots of all good actions except  their own and these whispered with delight that it was not  for nothing that our busy people occupied themselves with  other peoples children Be this as it may our sleeper  awakened resolved in her hour of need to ask the assistance  of those who certainly on the face of the matter owed some  obligations to her and hers but the question now was how  to reach their abode which was seated under the protection of  an old oak pollard at some distance from her own In  summer nothing could be easier and novice as she was in  winter travelling she thought poor little soul deceived by  appearances that she should find it mighty pleasant and clean  walking over the snow And so a few hours before she might  for she was always a very lightsome body and after a six  weeks nap she had not as we may readily suppose an atom of  heaviness remaining but now the snow being half melted by  the sun she sank and floundered at every step besides being  ever and anon nearly swept away by tremendous avalanches  falling from the laden boughs over head Pushed on  however by hunger and her own determined spirit and  assisted by that Kind Power which as shewn both in the Fable  book and the book of Life seldom fails to help those who are  inclined to help themselves she arrived at length within  sight of the desired oak tree A few minutes more brought  her under its boughs and into the very midst of the family  she had come to visit Like her they had all been brought  out by the sunshine and like her had all been sleeping through  the frost a habit in which they exactly resembled our busy  friend and her fellows but here all likeness ended the people  of the oak being as lazy a crew as ever slept or ate away  existence They were in short of the number of those spoilt  children of mother earth of all the least enviable on whom  she lavishes her gifts without requiring any labour in return  for these idlers wherever their abode always found themselves  in the midst of plenty Idlers as they were yet after their  late long fast you may be sure they were all busy enough in  breaking it and as their famishing visitor drew near her  hungry eyes were not slow in discerning that young and old  big and little were hard at work not with their knives and  forks but with their pipes which both their food and their  manner of eating it being like those of the Chinese rather  peculiar served them instead of either Not one of the party  took the slightest notice of the pitiful presence of our poor  dripping wearied traveller as she stood at an humble distance  and looked round timidly before she ventured except by looks  to make known her wants She first tried to recognise among  the younger of the party some who might have been her foster  children but they were all grown out of knowledge at all  events seemed to have no knowledge of her From the juveniles  she then turned to one who judging by appearance might have  been le Pere de la Famille browncoated round sleek and  shining he had been busiest of the busy with his pipe which  by the way was much longer and as his petitioner soon found  much more pliant than himself Fairly tired out with its use  he had laid this curious instrument of repletion not aside for  he was too much attached to it but out of the way and now  depending from his chin and bent over his portly stomach it  passed between his legs and turned up like a tail behind  Well this was the onetailed Bashaw whom our hungry sup  pliant at length ventured to accost though why in preference  to others we cannot say unless it might have been from the  unoccupied consequence of his air She related her pressing  need a tale which her gaunt figure and famished looks told  for her over again but twice told or told a hundred times it  fell as is usual with tales of like burthen upon a heedless ear  The little plump browncoated gentleman coolly brought for  ward his pipe and under the starvelings very nose began  again not I promise you to puff out mere whiffs of smoke  but to draw in after his peculiar fashion the remainder of his  unfinished and apparently interminable repast This was very  hardhearted to be sure but then in his defence be it ob  served that his suppliant was on her part no less thickheaded  having thought poor silly creature to strengthen her claim by  a delicate allusion to former kindnesses received at her hands  by certain of his kindred For this her folly she was only  treated as she deserved perhaps she thought so too for without  applying to any one else of all her many friends whose  looks were not encouraging she turned away hungrier and  sadder than ever meaning to try and crawl back again to her  unprovisioned home that she might die at least among her own  people But alas she soon found that this backward step  hard enough to contemplate was one yet harder to execute  While her friends had been busy feasting with their hollow  pipes and she with her hollow eyes the sun had been busy  with the snow of which by this time he had made what to  her was an impassable lake between herself and home How  wistfully did she try but in vain to look across it from that  barbarous and inhospitable shore where she must now lie down  and perish with hunger But no a death more speedy soon  threatened to swallow up the atom that now remained of our  poor little villagers wasted body The great sun having  stooped from his meridian height to do her all the harm  he could had now shrunk behind a dark cloudy screen  whence presently and as if he was still at the bottom of the  mischief there came pouring down a tremendous torrent The  intercepting lake soon spread into a sea the sea soon swelled  into an ocean and the wind no longer a soft southwester  rippled it into mimic waves with the power of which our  hapless wayfarer soon found herself weakly battling Who  then would have given a straws end for her little life not  one I trow of the best friends she had in all her little world  Yet a friend of the helpless better than all dw provide a  straw to which she was able to cling in her dire extremity  On this same straw or stick or spar it matters not what but  on a something large enough and light enough to supply her  with a raft she floated about now here now there till at last  she was carried where do you think back again to the  foot of the old oak pollard inhabited by her fair weather  friends There the subsiding waters left her and as soon as a  little recovered our tempesttossed traveller looked around for  some member of the inhospitable family but they were all  retired to their inner chamber from whence she could discover  nothing of their presence except here and there a sharp little  black eye peering out at her from behind a convenient crevice  She hardly knew indeed why she looked after them at all  every thought of begging was at an end All her wants as she  believed were ended too but feeling very cold and benumbed  she crept by a prodigious effort which seemed her last into a  cranny near the bottom of the old pollard which hollow as it  was had a great deal more heart for her than its churlish  occupants The short winters day was nearly at a close and  our little busybody all her business seeming at an end still  lay within her place of refuge Perishing with hunger cold  and wet bitter seemed her end and very bitter one might  have supposed her thoughts against the many friends  who with power and close at hand were letting her die all  unheeded and alone But somehow it often happens that  when our troubles seem to others at their very sharpest we  find that to ourselves their edge is already blunted So at  least it was with the troubles and with the anger too if any  she had ever felt of our sleeper awakened Sleep himself  that kind restorer from whose embraces she had broken only  to encounter a world of woe had once more lifted her into his  arms and was going to transfer her gently to those of his   brother Death In plain parlance she had fallen into a nap  which promised to be much longer even than her last when she  was suddenly awoke by a gentle tapping on the outside of her  hollow oak tree On opening her eyes she could just discern  by the light of the setting sun not a Woodpecker who  would have been to her of all visitants the most unwelcome  but the young face of one belonging to the numerous family  all of whom she had reason to believe alike hardhearted  This little creature had heard and pitied the story of her  distress when she thought she had related it to none but dull  cold ears and hers too were among the prying eyes which  had noticed the suppliants unpurposed return Now that  her elders were again busy with their pipes having none other  occupation the kindhearted soul had crept round to the  hiding place of their uninvited guest to offer her her own  supper The poor destitute thankfully received what was so  kindly proffered and was wonderfully refreshed by the timely  aid She slept that night in the old tree and the next day  all the water having disappeared contrived to reach her home  but her friend in need had taken care to supply her before  hand with a good breakfast and would not suffer her to depart  without a store of honey to refresh her on the road The  gift was not however applied to this purpose by our good  villager The unkindness of the many could not freeze her  heart while there was the kindness of one to keep it warm  and it was with all and more than all her usual delight that  she imparted of her hardwon treasure to her poor fellow  labourers whom she had never thought to see again By the  time she returned they had nearly all awoke from their common  slumber but a few only were at home to welcome her the  rest having gone out early to forage for provisions and where  should they have gone but to the oak pollard and the people  of the pipes From these and above all from the little brown  coated gentleman who wore his pipe en queue they met with  infinite civility and with what they wanted more a plentiful  supply After the shabby treatment of their sister in need  this might seem somewhat marvellous but then she had gone  alone and as a suppliant with nothing but past services to  cover her effrontery they had gone in a body and solicited  supplies in a tone authorized by numbers and by the right  of custom  So ends our tale but we have yet to disclose the name of  that industrious goodnatured yet withal improvident and  rather simple little personage whose adventure it records  There is a certain busy worker of whom it is declared that  she provideth her meat in the summer and gathereth her  food in the harvest for which sagacious proceeding all  teachers of morality from the wise monarch of Israel down  wards have held her up as a bright pattern of industrious  forethought Everybody knows everybody at least supposes  that this farseeing animal is as represented none other than  the prudent Ant Now our little worker who hard as she  toiled in summer days took no care for wintry morrows  displayed no forethought at all the provident Ant therefore  she could not be In conjunction with her prudence in parti  cular exemplified by her supposed harvesting of a store for  future want the prudence in general of the abovenamed  Insect has been no less highly lauded but of prudence our  simple villager knew nothing nothing at least of that Image  of the Yirtue called after her and set up a cold statue in  Mam mo As temple Her labours were all for the general profit  not for her own individual benefit the prudent Ant she could  never be  It has also been observed sarcastically and with reference to  the same acknowledged prudence that   La Fourmi nest pas preteuse  Cest la son moindre defaut  whereas the individual of our story shewed herself something  more than pretense not only willing to lend her labour but  ready to impart of all she had her little hard won store to  her neighbours and fellowworkers The avaricious Ant she  could never be An Ant nevertheless and nothing else is  intended to be represented by our sleeper awakened of the  strawroofed dwelling only that her portrait is not painted  after the old masters or their modern copyists whose pictures  with the exception of one grand feature that of industry are  totally unlike those drawn from the life by close observers  The policy of Eastern Ants may possibly reach farther than  that of European and whatever they did in the days of Solomon  they certainly do still Perhaps even wheresoever the Ant  Tribes may be scattered among the Tribes of Israel they may  have learnt from the prudent people with whom they dwell  always to forecast and never to lend without good interest  This might furnish a point of enquiry for Physiologists of  Insect Mind but our business is with Ants in general of  whom it is commonly supposed that they have storehouse and  barn for winter provender and of whom it has been further  fabled that they know how to keep their corn in due order by  cleverly biting off the germinating end Now though they  are acquainted with practices quite as cunning even as this  it would seem after all that the mystery of harvesting is to  them unknown Now and then indeed we may see one of these  indefatigable workers alone or assisted by a comrade toiling  under the prodigious burthen of a wheat or barleycorn but  this it would appear is employed for building rather than for  food a few scattered grains being often mingled with the bits  of stick and straw used by the Wood Ants to thatch or cover  in their conical abodes Our busy villager represents a member  of one of these sylvan communities and we have considered  her of the feminine gender not merely to compliment the  sex on their common virtues of industry and of generous  unselfish kindness nor yet to censure them for their as  common want of thought or prospective calculation but  simply because all Ant labourers are females though distin  guished from those which become the wives and mothers of  the community Go then to the Ant ye spinsters con  sider her ways and be wise See how in her state of  single blessedness she makes herself by active uses one of  the greatest blessings of her own society and be the same of  yours  And now for the way in which these Ant communities pass  the winter and for the neighbours to whom they are accus  tomed to apply in time of need These have been already  glanced at under the guise of fable In the plain garb of  corresponding fact let us look at them a little more closely as  their doings stand recorded in some right pleasant and vera  cious chronicles of the Pormic Nations Ants says their  historian usually become torpid during the intense cold but  when the season is not severe the depth of their nest guards  them from the effects of frost They do not lose their activity  unless the temperature be reduced to the 2nd degree of  Reaumur below freezing point I have occasionally seen them  walking upon the snow engaged in their customary avocations  In so reduced a temperature they would be exposed to the  horrors of famine were they not supplied with food by the  Pucerons The Pucerons we must here observe are none  other than those little Insects usually green found in more  or less abundance on every plant and tree and commonly  known under the misleading names of Blight and Honey  Dew they are also called Aphides and Plantluce The  entire history of these little animals is very curious but of this  ill due season Suffice it now that one of its most curious  chapters relates to their remarkable connexion with Ants to  whom they are in the habit when called on of imparting  refreshment in the shape of that sweet juice called Honey Dew  with which their own bodies are amply filled Our author  continues By an admirable concurrence of circumstances  which we cannot attribute to accident these Insects become  torpid at exactly the same degree of cold as those to which  they are thus useful and recover from this state also at the  same time so that the Ants always find them when they need  them We see from this that the absence in Ants of that  faculty which would guide them to lay up a winter store is no  defect in their nature The providing instinct is not bestowed  whilst a provision is given to supply its place  When we say the providing instinct is not given we must  however limit the observation to the business of storing grain  for winters want Though they do not this they sometimes  do as much or more What say you to the habit of keeping  and tending infant herds with a view to future use At all  events through a prospective propensity which is made sub  servient to this end they will sometimes says Huber  collect the eggs of Aphides deposit them in their own nests  guard them with the greatest care till evolved and then as we  pasture milch kine continue to keep an eye over them for the  delicious nutriment they afford Those Ants which do not  know how thus to assemble them are at least acquainted  with their resorts They follow them to the base of the trees  and branches of the shrubs they are used to frequent and at  the beginning of frost pursue along the hedges the paths  which lead to their retreat As soon as the Ants recover from  their torpor induced by severe cold they venture forth to  procure their food The honied aliment thus collected and  swallowed is on their return home equally distributed among  their companions The Ant figured in our story and pre  figured in our vignette is one of that large species before  spoken of popularly known by the different names of Pismire  Wood Hill and Horse Ant Their stick and strawcapped  cones scattered through the woods must be familiar to all  woodland walkers Without a mound of confusion within  they are a marvel of arrangement The conical coping which  presents itself to our eye as the roof of one of these sylvan  habitations is indeed the roof but may also be considered as  the upper story or perhaps several which contain within them  various chambers one in the centre larger and loftier than the  rest with passages of communication besides others which  lead to the exterior of the nest The outer entrances of these  various avenues at other times open are carefully barricaded  not only in winter but in rainy weather and also of a night  To construct fabrics like these or any fabrics at all out of  such materials as straw sticks grains and other miscellaneous  substances all dry light and unadhesive would seem a  wonder would be in fact an utter impossibility but for the  mortar employed also by our rustic builders This is composed  of earth that chiefly thrown out in hollowing the ground for  the foundation of their edifice which tempered with rainwater  and mingled with the substances above mentioned render  them capable of sufficient compaction to maintain their places  and resist weather  Beside and beneath these upper chambers the attics we  may call them of the Woodants dwelling it contains exca  vated within the ground another set of apartments with  convenient passages to which the inhabitants all retire on  the appearance of winter therein to slumber with more or less  pertinacity according to the severity or mildness of the season  The habitations of Ants are of different construction ac  cording tp the species of their builders some being raised like  that above described and formed masonlike of earth while  others are mined beneath its surface or excavated in wood  All are difficult to follow in their progress towards completion  Huber found it so even with the assistance of artificial Formi  caries but the labours of our Woodants are more open to  observation as they work less under cover than the more  regular Masons Miners and Carpenters of their  indefatigable race  Our villagers many friends of the old pollard are  intended expressly though not with reference to character for  a family of the large brown Oak Aphis greatest of its tribe  with a pipe or sucker of prodigious length which when not  employed in extraction of sweet juices from leaf and branch is  carried under the body passing upwards like a tail  LIFE IN DEATH   Life mocks the idle hate  Of his archenemy Death  We were loath to begin the year by contemplation of our  Insect subjects while buried in a sleep wearing Deaths perfect  semblance but we can look at them now and their dreamless  slumber inspires no corresponding dulness but only curious ex  pectancy for they are about to awake and soon their songs of  life and liberty their morning hymn and their evening boom  will be resounding over the bursting hedgerows and the  opening flowers The Bee is still mute the Beetle still  motionless the Butterfly like the bud still enfolded in its  protecting shroud but they are not the less existent and to  discover where and how is a curious object of pursuit and  eke a cheerful one shewing how life and pleasure activity  and beauty lie lurking under a thousand dry and deathlike  forms to which they owe their preservation  With our Cricketlike propensities it is not for nothing we  can tell you that we are tempted from our cheerful hearth on  this side of April but in hunting after hidden life do we not  still pursue our favourite element What seek we still through  frost and snow and torpor but sparks of vital fire emanating  all from the Great Source of heat and light of love and  wisdom and ready to be kindled at His bidding by the re  turning sun at once His servant and His image With intent  of discovering life thus hidden under seeming death we were  out yesterday seeking after Moths and Butterflies or more  properly after what will become such in due season but con  sidering as we shall further illustrate byandby that all the  changes of these Insects are only a series of developments we  may look upon our search and for noveltys sake so call it as a  Butterfly hunt in winter Please you our friends herein to  join us as we retrace our ground this time for your indul  gence by the fireside but in good hope that by the next  we shall tempt you to follow us in right good earnest to the  field  Our first preserve and as already noticed one of the best  is our garden albeit but a very little one You might walk  THE ART OE SEEING  round it twenty times perhaps in an hour and on such a day  as this or yesterday might look about you for the Life in  Death of which we have been talking and see no signs of it  except in the evergreens and crocuses and snow drops and  hear no sound of it except in the voices of the thrush and  robin from among the leafless branches but he who would  become cognisant of surrounding Insect life veiled as it now  is under the apparent death of winter must try to provide  himself with spectacles none of your barnacles of crystal or  glass but a pair of invisible perceptors acquired by habits of  careful observation It has been aptly said that the memory  dwells in the heart and it might be observed with equal  justice that every other faculty and even every sense has its  seat in the heart also How quick of sight and quick of ear  are the dullest of us all to objects of such a sort as have once  gained a hold upon our lifting and what is it but our apathy  of heart towards Nature and its Mighty Author which with  reference to so much that belongs to them causes us to be for  ever verifying the assertion of one intelligent observer that   the art of seeing is but rarely practised  Well now to our garden Let us look around and here  on this bounding hedge we discern by help of the spectacles  in question a something rarely enough seen although exposed  to our view almost everywhere on every winters day Amidst  the intricate branches of the bare hawthorn stretches forth  an arm distinguished from the rest by a circlet of beads a  manyrowed bead bracelet as regularly wrought as bracelet ever  worn on ladys wrist or woven of silk and beads by ladys  fingers This piece of natural jewellery is the work of a  certain Mother Moth whose own eggs set in an indissoluble  weatherproof cement are the living gems of which it is com  posed We can tell you however that the hawthorn does  not after the fashion of some fairer wearers display this  ornament without having paid for it partly already in hard  green leaves of last summer the remaining price of her pearls  to be discharged in the forthcoming spring on the first issue  of new foliage The deceased manufacturer of this dearbought  ornament was a female Lackey member of a tribe so called  on account of the gaudy liveries blue and red white and  yellow in which while Caterpillars they are arrayed at the  cost as we have seen of the unhappy tree be it hawthorn  plum pear or blackthorn upon which they happen to be de  pendants often by dozens or scores stripping it of green  honours after the manner of lazy lackeys of another sort  the devourers of trees heraldic From these braceleteggs  will come forth with the opening leaves just in time to devour  them a new troop of these Lackey varlets which in due  season about June will doff their coats of many colours for  the sober chrysalidanbrown and in July emerge from their  Aurelian shrouds and cases a company of sobersuited light  brown Moths images of her their lady mother the constructor  of this bracelet That we may look into its workmanship a  little closer let us cut it from the hedge with the branch it  compasses and from which we can slip it like a ring We find  on inspection that each of the beads or eggs comprising it  though round externally is shaped like the arch stones of a  bridge the whole of them being cemented together in like  manner and thus rendered so strong compact and impervious  as to preserve unharmed through winters wet and cold the  embryo lives for whose protection it was intended  Here close at hand we have another illustration but how  beautifully varied of the same preserving care exerted  through the medium of instinctive agency On another  leafless spray of hawthorn hangs another group of Insect eggs  the embryo progeny of another maternal Moth These however  instead of being united as in the bracelet with strong cement  are loosely scattered but by no means carelessly for they are  laid upon an oval silken bed the warm cocoon which having  while she was a Chrysalis served to protect the mother was  converted by the maternal instinct of her mothhood into a winter  cradle for her eggs Thom these in the month of May will  appear a brood of Caterpillars at first dark and hairy after  wards black and grey with bright yellow tufts and red and  yellow spots and from these after the usual changes we shall  have a company of Moths called Vapourers the females of  which are almost wholly destitute of wings One of these was  the layer of the eggs in this cocoon which furnishes therefore  a striking instance of a seeming deficiency of organization  being compensated by an instinctive perception The mother  Moth has no wings wherewith to travel far in search of a safe  asylum for her eggs and she wonld seem for this reason  guided instinctively to employ her own discarded covering as  a bed suited to preserve them  Looking however at these germs of life as they lie here  exposed upon the leafless branches neither bed of cement nor  bed of silk wonld seem to afford a very secure protection  against the frosts and winds of winter Nor wonld they  perhaps but for the deathdefying quality of the vital sparks  within these tiny eggshells which appear while thus concen  trated to possess a stronger power of resisting cold than when  they animate their respective forms after expansion Insect  eggs have been found uninjured after exposure to an artificial  temperature of 22° below zero That of 16° or 17° has  sufficed to destroy Insects themselves and these of which  great numbers pass the winter in the egg have been noticed  as even more abundant than usual after seasons of extreme  severity An example of this fact is adduced by Rennie as  having occurred in the spring of 1830  Let us seek now for a specimen of insect life though still it  may be only Life in death advanced one step beyond its  threshold or from egg to Caterpillar But without a leaf yet  opened for its support where is the Caterpillar to be found  Perhaps we must go farther than our little garden to discover it  for as we look about us not a living thing or one like it can  we see except that rogue of a thrush busy yonder at a  currant bush Suppose we watch him and see if he may not  prove a guide an indicator to assist us in our search What  is he about Plucking and picking at the bare branches  when meanwhile close beside him lies a snail one of his  favourite morsels There goes the quickeared songster put  to flight even by our stealthy step but let him go we shall  find out all the same the business hes been after Aye aye  Sir Thrush we even thought so thy large bright eye has been  quicker than our own for all our boasted spectacles in dis  covering before us the very game for which we have been  hunting We are not so clever as thou art in detection of life  clothed in the garb of death On this branch of the currant  bush where thou wast so busy remains a trio of stiff stick like  little animals more like twigs than Caterpillars and distin  guishable only from the branch itself neither by form nor  motion but slightly by colour which instead of brown is  whitish yellow besprinkled with black These are the Mag  pie Caterpillars of the Magpie Moth numbers of which so  called from their mode of colouring are to be seen in almost  every garden flying heavily through the twilight of summers  evenings and from the eggs of one of them deposited on this  currant branch came forth in autumn the curious specimens  of still life now before us In these we have an instance  among others of Caterpillars defended through the winter by a  state of torpidity in which they have now continued for many  weeks without eating and will thus remain till the breath of  spring has roused them to activity and provided employment  for their jaws The power of Caterpillars also in resisting cold  has been proved by experiment to be very great scarcely  indeed inferior to that of insect eggs Those of the cabbage  frozen so stiff as to snap like glass have yet lived and  become Butterflies while others have revived after chinking  like stones when thrown into a glass  What next have we come to basking in a ray of wintry sun  shine on a root of dandelion It is another Caterpillar now a  very little one because short of his full growth not naked like  the tiny sticks of the Magpie but clothed a la Russe in a  brown fur jacket  The moment we touch him he curls up like a hedgehog  and falls from the plant upon the ground From this practice  he is known to some people by the appellation of a Devils  ring though why a creature harmless as a dove should have  acquired this misnomer it is hard to say His proper though  not in his present state a much more fitting appellation is the  Tiger Caterpillar of the Tiger Moth he is now more like a  little bear but bear or tiger we have now at home a box or  cagefull of the like animals born from the egg in the early  part of last October Instead of attaining in a few weeks to  the full measure of their bulk as is the case with the summer  broods of the same Caterpillar these like the little individuals  just encountered have been since an early stage quite stationary  as to growth nearly the same as to motion have kept on the  same coats instead of often changing them and it is only in  mild weather that they eat sparingly of the leaves of dandelion  wherewith it is not easy to supply them When the latter are  entirely nipped by frost or covered by snow our little winterers  subsist as well without them upon sleep In this their nice  and altered adaptation to a rigorous season and short supplies  are not the growth and appetite even of these Caterpillars  worthy of notice  With the arrival of April and a plentiful supply of dock and  dandelion green meat we shall find in our little Tigers a  proportionate increase of activity and appetite their skins as  they increase in size will be frequently cast and in May each  having attained to the full measure of its growth will display  to great advantage its jerkin of black velvet ornamented with  rows of white studs from each of which springs a long tuft of  goldbrown greytipped hairs forming en masse an upper  coat of fur Our Caterpillar will then speedily repay us for  the trouble of his keep by showing how cleverly he can make  his cocoon spinning it of his own silk interweaving it with  hair plucked from his own body and eking out these natural  materials by extraneous ones such as grains of earth pieces of  leaf or even bits of paper when placed within his reach  Shut up in this secure asylum he will become a chrysalis and  in two or three weeks come forth a Tiger Moth complete  a winged creature glorious in crimson dyes and richest  brown and cream colour Although these and a few other  furclad Caterpillars seem partly indebted to their clothing  for protection against the cold there are also several which  live through the winter and show moreover signs of life  that have scarcely a hair upon their backs Of these some  are exceedingly plump as well as smooth and have therefore  been supposed to be kept warm by encasing fat  Leaving the garden let us extend our hunt over a wider  range and here without the paling we discover hung upon  an oaktree another cloak of protection for Caterpillar life  amidst the surrounding death of vegetation We have here  no solitary survivors but a social company if social we may  designate a few dozens of half or quite dormant little animals   bidding defiance to Jack Frost from behind the triple tapestry of  a silken hammock woven by themselves This their winter dormi  tory is of shape irregular with here and there a brown oakleaf  woven into its outward texture the interior being divided also  with tapestry into various snug apartments where the little  inmates lie coiled together by twos and threes till waked into  activity by the coming spring These at present harmless  slumberers will grow by and bye into tremendous ravagers  of the oak and other trees and will then on the boughs they  have stripped bare be sufficiently discernible in their tufted  parure of black white and scarlet These are the progeny  of a pretty white moth yclept the goldtail from a tuft of  goldcoloured hair at the end of her body Protected in the  above and various other manners a number of future Moths  and Butterflies are now existent in the forms of Egg and Cater  pillar but many more of them by far indeed the larger  portion have been sleeping away the winter and are slumbering  yet as Chrysalides To disquiet and bring up one of these  Insect mummies from darkness into light let us make the  next object of our walk If we had had with us our exhuming  digger we might soon unearth some from beneath the trees  about us but in default of a trowel we must seek a chrysalis  buried indeed but not within the ground The light vege  table mould which fills the trunk of this decayed willow  has often furnished us with an Aurelian treasure and if one is  to be found there now a stick will suffice for its discovery  This time however explore it as we may our mine would  seem exhausted But stay What have we here A sort of  rough excrescence seeming to grow out of the tree just within  the edge of its shelllike trunk When we come to look at it  it seems not however like a vegetable growth nor yet a  vagary of decays sometimes creative fingers it is the  woodbuilt structure of a Caterpillar and his present dormitory  now that he has cast off his working dress and put on the  monastic habit of an idle chrysalis Let us look into his cell  or at least on its exterior a little closer  The fabric is of oval form composed of pieces of rotten  wood and bark meshed in and kept together by silk and gluten  the latter renders it so hard that it refuses to yield under  pressure of the finger we might perhaps force it though not  without trouble by aid of stick or knife but let us spare it  leaving its ingenious builder and occupant to finish unmolested  his winters nap to sleep on till the merry month of May and  then forcing his wooden walls by help it is said of an  expressly provided acid to expand his pencilled pinions on  the evening air  But it might please you curious companions of our ramble  to see for yourselves the pattern of those pretty pinions  and so in due time you shall for we have at home almost a  facsimile of this woodbuilt cell constructed under our own  eye by a brother artisan a Puss Caterpillar which as a  chrysalis now lives within it When as a young May Moth  it pleases to emerge we promise you its picture both in that  its palmy state as well as in its earlier capacity of ingenious  builder This Puss chrysalis has afforded a specimen of nu  merous others of the tribe of Moths now lying thus entombed  and enshrouded though in divers manners but besides these  there are some belonging to the race of Butterflies which may  now be much more easily detected as they hang both  shroudless and tombless betwixt earth and sky Yonder is  the wall of a kitchen garden let us cross the road to it and  we shall be sure almost to find an instance of what we speak  of Here is the very thing Just under the coping of the  wall its only shelter slung in horizontal position hangs a  chrysalis which by its shape angular instead of rounded as  well as by the open mode in which it is exhibited we recognise  at once as a future Hayflier and by the colour a greenish  yellow besprinkled with black no less than by its choice of  situation know it to have been in autumn a Cabbage Cater  pillar to appear in spring though not perhaps till May a large  white garden Butterfly It hangs here attached to the wall by  a double support a silken button at the tail and a band or  loop of threads round the middle of the body its last pieces of  ingenious workmanship while in the Caterpillar form and we  perceive also a thin silken web stretched over a small space  of the brick above This is a preparation of its surface to  receive the ends of the supporting girth which would not else  adhere On this last practice of the Cabbage Caterpillar a  curious observation has been made serving to illustrate the  variations of instinct to meet unusual circumstances When  confined in a box covered with muslin a texture to which its  silken girth can be easily attached without any previous pre  paration the caterpillar has been found to spare itself the  needless trouble of spining any such facing web We have  one now in our possession in a box where the web certainly  has been spun but our chrysalis being attached by its means  to the pasteboard side and not to the muslin top of its apart  ment offers no contradiction to the preceding statement  Let us linger for a while under this southern Avail The  sun gleaming at intervals all the morning has now come forth  in right good earnest and it is not for us to turn our back upon  the sun This February noon is more soft and gentle than  many a May morning and here we might believe it veritable  spring But why should we fancy it any thing but what it is  a day when surly winter like many other surly visitants  seems to have grown tender at thoughts of bidding us farewell  Besides we may wait with patience for spring leaves and  spring flowers for we are not without our verdure and our  blossoms too all the dearer in that they are more rare On  the face of this weatherbeaten wall our eye can regale itself  on pleasant patches of emerald velvet tufts of winter moss  bright enough to make the green of spring sicken and  turn yellow with envy Above rise the clustered flowerbuds  of the elder and yonder across the road hang the drooping  blossoms of the hazel What want we more in anticipation of  spring delights Not spring music while we are listening to  dear robins solo siveeter than an orchestra of warblers Care  we for spring Butterflies We may content us with their  promise as it hangs in safe dependence on the silken threads  of this our cabbage chrysalis and the remainder of its yet  quiescent crew But look What is flitting past us even  now In very sooth a Devils Butterfly has come from  the ivy overhead or a warmer place below to reproach us for  indifference to Butterfly presence or to upbraid yonder cabbage  sleeper for still sleeping on There now she has settled not  on the elder clusters nor yet on the hazle flowers but on this  leafless hawthorn and here do her golden pinions ope and  close as if she designed to enhance their living splendour by  contrast with the deathlike branches Well be thou But  terfly of devil or of witch as our brethren of Scotland  are wont to call thee we suppose for thy winterbraving  hardihood thou art a glorious creature and thy tamer name  of little Tortoiseshell does but sorry justice to thy glowing  beauty  Our pencil has not done thee more and were it endowed  with tenfold skill we should yet exclaim with fit humility oh   Who can paint like nature  A verbal portrait should we attempt minute description of thy  bright blue crescents and thy golden hair would do thee still  less credit We shall only therefore sketch broadly thy most  striking features that our friends wherever or whenever met  with may recognise at once the numerous members of thy  handsome family  This little Tortoiseshell which in common with others of  her hardy sisterhood has survived the winter her radiant  robes laid up in ivy or some other close green wardrobe belongs  to the beautiful genus Vanessa or Fanwinged Butterflies  which while in their state of spiny Caterpillars feed for the  most part upon nettles They are distinguished by their  warm rich colours their angular scalloped wings with points  at the hinder margin and the shortness of their fore legs  which do not serve the purpose of walking  Another species of the same genus Vanessa less common  than the above is the Io or Peacocks eye so called from  the eyelike spots looking out from the deep brownred of  its ample wings Then there is a Butterfly of another sort a  yellowrobed harbinger of spring the very first that comes  regularly in that capacity whose appearance we must an  nounce to be at hand We might have met him even in  our ramble of today If we had we should have known  and welcomed him as our favourite Brimstone he of the  smoothcut sulphur coloured pinions all four ending in a  pointed angle and dashed with a speck of reddishbrown   Cosi per entro loro schiera bruna  Sammusa luna con laltra formica  Forse a spiar lor via e lor fortuna Dante  In the midst of various other nations are now dwelling and  have dwelt from the year nobody knows what a pigmy  people whom we shall call Eormicans divided into tribes  and long celebrated for their activity industry and form of  government both civil and military  If stature were to be considered as the true measure of  greatness at no period could this dwarfish race have pretended  A MILITARY EXPEDITION AND A NEW  BATTLE OE THE AMAZONS  to compete with any of the nations over whose territories they  were distributed although in many other respects their  superiority was once indisputable To take England one  of their localities as an example When our ancestors lived  in scattered huts wore only skins and blue paint shot at  wild beasts with arrows and tore each other to pieces much  after wildbeast fashion it is certain that the Eormicans pro  genitors lived in cities wore polished armour possessed a sort  of artillery and fought pitched battles In one respect  however besides that of their high antiquity the people of  whom we are speaking although for the most part of eminently  terrestrial habits resemble the natives of the Celestial Empire  namely in their marked characteristic of stability understood  in the limited sense of standing still for as were their ancestors  so are their existing descendants and so will be their sons  sons to the hundred thousandth generation  The custom of slavemaking as still sanctioned by the  example of civilized and Christian nations has been always  practiced by certain tribes of this pigmy people In some  respects however our Lilliputian slaveowners are wofully  behindhand as compared with those of larger stature espe  cially with the dwellers in a certain Trans Atlantic Land of  Freedom They know not the meaning of Lynchlaw the  sound of a whip is never heard within their territories The  slaves live as well as their possessors and on some occasions  the common rule of such relationship being reversed would  no  SLAVES AND SLAVEHOLDERS  seem to take the chief authority into their own hands With  all this indulgence strange as it may appear these little slaves  are famous hands at labour No Jackofalltrades nor maid  ofallwork for be it here observed that they are all females  can beat them for universal usefulness The greater number of  their owners are of the same sex with themselves and what  may seem on this account the more remarkable is that they  are all without exception soldiers amazonian soldiers As  was once said by a certain corps of our own gentlemen mill  taires or said for them these lady warriors are a class who  fighting of course excepted never do anything It follows  consequently that their slaves have everything to do In a  populous city they are at once the builders the scavengers  the porters and the nurses of the infant population Nay  they are even the feeders of the grownup free community  which consists solely of the abovenamed lady soldiery a few  idle gentlemen and some two or three queens or princesses of  the blood The slave population being thus absolutely neces  sary to the comfort nay very existence of their owners it of  course follows that the keeping up of its numbers is a most  important matter This object is effected by predatory ex  cursions taken frequently into the territories of those harmless  unoffending tribes which furnish the desired supply and from  which the female warriors usually return triumphant each laden  with the useful if not glorious trophy of an infant captive  Arrived at the city of its captors each little slave in embryo  QUEENS OP FORMICA  Ill  is forthwith consigned to the charge of a compatriot slavenurse  who though ignorant perhaps as the precious innocent itself  that the ties of country or even of family unite them fondles  feeds and fashions it for the benefit of their common owner  into just such another patient busy factotum as herself  The government of all the Tormican states whether slave  making or otherwise is properly republican yet one sovereign  lady sometimes two sometimes even a triumvirate of queens  receive their homage And truly no monarchs obtain or could  desire a greater show of humbly devoted loyalty each royal  personage has her court and is surrounded by her courtiers  effeminate princes whispering soft nothings into her satiate ear  mailclad Amazons attending as her bodyguard while in her  royal progresses she is followed by admiring crowds but as to  real political power king or queen Log may boast as much In  short possessing an ample share of its honours and its pleasures  the chief business of royalty with the female sovereigns  of the states of Formica consists in supplying a numerous  progeny not merely to be provided for by the nation but  to keep up what would otherwise be its failing population  On a certain day of a certain year the Amazonian chieftains  of Rufia one of the slavemaking states of Formica assembled to  concert a plan of operation for a new campaign or marauding  expedition Some people might suppose that they had already  settled or that they would settle beforehand upon some decent  pretext for attacking their peaceful neighbours a matter which  sometimes puzzles the ingenuity of civilized cabinets but like  bold border chieftains or honest freebooters our warlike pigmies  always set at nought such empty preliminaries That moral  sensitiveness is not theirs which must wrap up motives in a  cloak to hide them if possible even from themselves and as  for their neighbours since it never consorts with their tactics to  give notice of an incursion they cannot to them of course  attempt to justify the making it  It was towards the close of a fine summers day that the  army of the Rufians consisting of a large body of infantry was  seen issuing from their capital Their march soon brought  them to an arid sandy plain strewn with rocky fragments  between which they pursued their way in winding but unbroken  files their polished brown corselets glistening like sparks of fire  in the glow of the declining sun Marching with great rapidity  considering their diminutive stature they soon traversed this  desertlike tract without loss or accident a matter for no  small congratulation seeing the manifold dangers to which their  exposed route had rendered them liable In the first place  that which to our little Amazons appeared as we have des  cribed it a rockstrewn plain was none other than a public  causeway used by the gigantic creatures who consider them  selves the lords of the land and had one of these happened  to pass by during the transit of the Rufian army his direful  footfall would have enveloped whole divisions in awful darkness  to be followed by annihilation  A somewhat similar but still more overwhelming agent of  destruction accompanied by deafening thunder perhaps by  fearful lightning might also have overtaken them in shape  of a tremendous revolving circle which would instantly have  ground them into powder amidst the coruscation of flint and  steel Biped enemies of lesser bulk but to them monsters  still with gaping toothless mouths might have swallowed up a  legion at one fatal swoop  These and other perils happily escaped the Rufians arrived  at what in our language is yclept a hedge though known in  theirs by a word or sign expressive of a mighty forest To  cross this barrier and reassemble in compact array on its  further side was a manoeuvre requiring not a little skill but  our little Amazonian troops effected it in the most creditable  manner which was the more surprising as they seemed destitute  of a leader or officers of any description to direct their move  ments  Leaving the woody barrier behind whose deep evening  shadow still threw the army and its movements into shade a  country which presented difficulties scarcely inferior yet lay  before them Imagine a troop of infantry or a soldier of that  troop compelled to force his way through an intricate jungle  composed of reeds so large that the least of them should more  than triple the girth of his own body so lofty that his eye  could scarcely reach the top of a single stem and all these  thickly interspersed with gigantic leafblades waving and  clashing above his head or lying across his path in intricate  confusion obliging him alternately to climb to leap over and  creep under these and a thousand other impeding obstacles  only we say imagine the fatigue and difficulty of such a pro  gress to a single individual and its hundredfold embarrassment  to one of a phalanx constrained to keep together and proceed  in a given course and yon must allow no little share of skill  perseverance discipline activity and strength to the Rufian  army in its laborious passage across an unmown field The  march being too long to accomplish at a stretch they were  obliged to bivouac for the night upon the plain of which a  small portion yet remained to be traversed Many of our little  Amazons crouched down weary and wet with the evening dew  some perhaps with spirits as well as corselets damped but  when they awoke in the morning all their ardour was renewed  They cared not for the morning dewdrops so bright and  glistening and as they gaily shook them off they discerned  through the overtopping grass the single dome of the city of  Fusca the capital of the dusky Fuscans which they were about  to besiege Then as with the valiant but weary crusaders  when they first beheld the domes and minarets of the Holy  City   Ali ha ciascuno al core ed ali al piede  both their hearts and heels acquired wings Onward they  pressed while some of the most ardent of the assailants  leaving the main body behind rushed forward to attack the  enemys sentinels who were posted at each of the avenues  leading down into the subterranean city  These watchful guards who presently gave notice of the  approaching army were like their assailants all Amazonian  soldiers only of a much milder and more pacific disposition  being used to combine gentle employments with their profes  sion of arms a prosession moreover never exercised except  defensively  Slavery as inflicted on others is a thing unknown among the  Tuscans and their working females who constitute the chief  bulk of the population are not only the sole defenders of the  state but also perform all the useful offices which among the  Bufians are made to devolve upon the slaves  When warned of the enemys unwelcome appearance the  inhabitants of Tusca those at least of them who belonged  to the preponderating class just mentioned were busied in their  usual avocations Some were building some clearing the  streets some tending their domestic cattle others waiting on  the great in other words the idle of the community others  feeding the children of the royal nurseries for with the Tuscans  all nurseries may be called royal because amongst them as well  as amongst the Bufians the privilege of maternity belongs  to royalty alone the queens being always the queenmothers  of their people  Though thus taken by surprise amidst their multifarious  employments the garrison of Tusca had one advantage  though not forewarned they were always forearmed Like  the knightly ten of Branksholme who   quitted not their harness bright  Neither by day nor yet by night  they always ate drank worked even nursed in their coats of  mail never laid down their arms and always carried their  ammunition about them Having therefore no belts to buckle  no guns to load no horses to saddle the defending force was  presently mustered and issuing in various divisions from the  city gates left few within its walls or to speak more  correctly within the protecting dome by which it was sur  mounted except the cowardly and helpless to wit the  masculine portion of its inhabitants wholly made up of effemi  nate lords who always hung about the court the numerous  infant families which claimed the queens of which there were  three for mothers their Fuscan majesties themselves with  several princesses and besides these only their immediate and  indispensable attendants namely a few compelled to remain  within the nurseries and the royal bodyguard a little Ama  zonian band as brave and as much devoted to Fuscan royalty  as were the redgranite Swiss to the unhappy majesty of  France  Now comes the tug of war The defenders are assembled  in front of their city fighting for their queen their lives and  the liberty of their infant population The assailants their  main body having now come up are fighting for glory and for  plunder and above all for the rape of Tuscan babies to become  the future slaves of their own rising generation Oh for a  Homers pen to describe the universal ardour and the indivi  dual prowess of our pigmy Amazons By far more numerous  are the dusky Tuscans though in discipline and personal  strength they are much inferior to the warlike Rufians Of  the latter we have spoken hitherto as Lilliputians but now  we have to treat of them as opposed to a tribe of very inferior  stature  The battlefield an area of some four feet square is strewed  with dead and dying Sulphureous fumes exhale around  Single combatants by thousands each so eager in their re  spective contests as to seem unconscious of all besides have  spent their ammunition but with rancour undiminished behold  them now limb to limb head to head seized by each other  and held in savage grip now wrestling upright now rolling  in the dust long does the dubious strife continue till a third  Rufian or Tuscan comes to turn the balance and throw  death into the ascending scale In another quarter see perhaps  a dozen combatants of either party all firmly linked together  in a living chain dashing writhing like a wounded snake in  serpentine convulsions till snap goes a link beneath a mortal  blow but in an instant the dissevered portions reunite and  struggle on with double fury  Look now at that powerful longlimbed Rufian and the active  little Tuscan her opponent the latter springs like a cat o  mountain on the chest of her bulkier foe but clearly does she  pay for her temerity Caught in the grasp of the Amazonian  Ajax she is crushed and falls strangled to the earth She  falls but let not her conqueror exult a sister heroine no  bigger than herself and like herself carrying in a little body  a mighty mind beholds and vows to avenge her fate She  too springs upon the Eufian but with more effective grasp  her powerful jaws enclosing as in a vice one limb of her  athletic antagonist The Eufian severs in twain the body of  her assailant its lower half falls and is trampled in the dust  but horrible to see the upper portion still retains its hold  supported by the jaws which death has doublelocked The  fixed eyes continue to look up angrily into the living face the  rigid arms to encircle the Avarm body of the wounded Eufian  Vainly she strives to shake off the hideous burthen like the  old Man of the Mountain it will not be dislodged arid though  the Amazon of Eufia left that battlefield yet   ever more  The lady wore  carried perforce about her the slaughtered Tuscans head and  shoulders frightful trophy of her dearbought victory  But how goes the day How flows the tide of battle Will  Eufia or will Tusca will might or right prevail Shall the  infant Tuscan females grow up to be maids of allwork at  home or slaves of all work in a foreign land  They run they run Who run inquires the eager but  dying gaze of a wounded Amazon lialf raising her recumbent  form and trying to scan the face of the field through the mist  of her glazing eye She saw them not but too plainly to be  seen were the vanquished Tuscans in full retreat towards the  city which their efforts bad proved ineffectual to defend The  remnant of their army still numerous though more than half  destroyed having reached the domelike roof which covered in  their subterranean capital were seen to overspread its surface  then suddenly to disappear defiling downwards through the  descending streets But the enemy was close at hand and the  dome just occupied by the scattered citizens swarmed presently  with the invading legions The latter were soon in possession  of the principal entrances but even while these were being  won their sappers and miners opened breaches in the earthen  masonry of the dome so that the entire force of the invaders  was speedily pouring from all quarters into the unhappy city  Who can paint the scene that followed Who can number  the innocents that day made captive There was Rachel  weeping for her children but strange anomaly the Rachels  who wept for them who had bled for them and died for them  were not their mothers These the queens of Tusca shut up  within their palaces surrounded by their faithful bodyguard  heard the din without the strife the lamentations and moved  not perhaps were not permitted to move their august persons  to inquire the cause It was not the mothers but the loving  fostermothers at once the tender nurses and the brave de  fenders of the baby Tuscans who driven from the field still  struggled to preserve them Their deeds of devoted heroism  would fill a volume one of them will adorn a page A  Bufian enters an apartment where ten of the little Tuscans are  committed to the care of one attendant on whom she rushes  The ruthless Amazon by main weight bears her to the ground  then severing with her trenchant weapon the lower limbs of  their faithful guardian snatches up two of the infants and  retreats But life and affection are still strong within the  dismembered body of the devoted nurse Moving on her  bleeding trunk she bears with persevering agony first one  then another of her helpless charges to a place of concealment  and not till the last is hidden as she fondly hopes from the  search of its enemies does she fall down and die  Triumphant was the homeward march of the victorious  Bufians each Amazonian victress shouldering her ravished  bantling Of the little captives some the pupa were wrapt in a  sort of swaddling clothes whilst others the larva who were  younger and not thus enthralled felt equally ill at ease under  the awkward handling of their warlike captors No longer  keeping in consequence perhaps of their acquired encum  brances the regular array in which spite of impeding obstacles  they had advanced towards the ransacked city their return  for the greater portion of the way was straggling and irregular  but converging from all points they at last reassembled again  in a compact body before their own capital  Then did the slavesentinels give joyful notice of the con  querors approach with their slavebooty Then did the slave  nurses hasten to receive the slavebabies transferred to their  tender care Little did they dream poor simple bodies that  the ravished nurslings had sprung of the same race perhaps  of the same parentage as themselves And what mattered it  since in their ignorance was bliss And so while some  among them hushed and dandled and fed their little com  patriots and cousins in captivity others much after the fashion  of a gulled constituency chairing a successful member carried  their victorious captors in triumph to their homes Then  while the illustrious Amazons reposed after their recent toils  toils undertaken for the express purpose of being the better  able to indulge in idleness others of their attendants also of  course slaves served them with the most delicious viands  which to their recipients would probably have been more  grateful still could they have been even spared the trouble of  opening their mouths  Thus were the free nnrseries of Tusca stripped almost to ex  tinction that the slave nurseries of Rufia might be replenished  to overflowing An unfair procedure doubtless but we must  not throw a stone at an anthill of oppression while we  tolerate a mountain of the like as heaped by certain of our  so called Christian brethren on their brethren of our race  The foregoing like many another historic record of a graver  nature is not we confess it exactly true but the following  notes drawn chiefly from Huber the veracious chronicler of  the Ant nations will show that our fiction treads very closely  on the heels of fact  The wars of Ants were observed long ago and one of their  battles fought under the pontificate of Eugenius IV was  honoured by having for its historian JEneas Sylvius who was  afterwards Pope himself as Pius II The most warlike of the  Ant tribes according to Huber is the Wood ant the largest  British species of which we have elsewhere told a tale with  relation to other than its military characteristics These as  well as its domestic doings are delightfully described by the  above writer and a walk to some neighbouring wood is almost  sure to afford personal acquaintance with these sylvan warriors  with their corselets of rusty red and black head and tail pieces  There also we may see their fortified cities their military  roads diverging from these citadels like so many rays  from a centre their regular battles with the same or a weaker  species their skirmishes their single combats their ambus  cades their barricades and all the pomp and circumstance  of Pormican warfare But though it was known centuries  ago that Ants made war it was not discovered till of late  years and that by Huber himself that they also made slaves  seizing them while in their infancy their state of larva or of  pupa to be trained up for their service by compatriot slaves  already grown up in the same  The Woodant above mentioned has been frequently de  tected in thus making free with members of its neighbours  infant population and may probably turn them to the like  useful account but the slavemaker par excellence is a larger  brown species Formica Eufescens not a native of the free soil  of England though the slavemade F Fusca or the negro is  In the representation of these our Rufians and our Euscans  as Amazons we have strayed but little if at all from nature  inasmuch as the fighters and workers of Ant as well as Bee  communities are all females though imperfectly developed  the few of another description who are the sole mothers of  the community receiving as such the homage paid to  sovereignty Their courts their attendants their bodyguard  their sentinels are no coinage of our own fancy but the very  words used by careful observers as best descriptive of the agents  and offices which have come under their notice If a few of  our terms and incidents still seem exaggerated for artillery  read a discharge of formic acid accompanied by a sulphureous  odour commonly ejected by the angry Ant for trenchant  weapons read the powerful jaws with which it can sever a  limb or head of an antagonist and you have plain matter of  fact By employment of these same jaws as holdfasts the head  of a conquered Ant is not unfrequently says our authority seen  suspended to the leg or an antennae of its victor a trouble  some trophy which he carries to the day of his death Again  the following is only a simpler version of the story of our  devoted Tuscan nurse A worker Ant severed in two has  been observed with its upper half to carry to the nest no less  than ten of the pupse or larvae of the community and  numerous are the like traits related of their devotion to their  charges When their cities are besieged says Huber they are  sometimes seen by hundreds carrying off their young to pre  serve them from the enemy bearing them in their jaws to the  summit of neighbouring plants or hiding them beneath their  foliage and when the danger seems overpassed then do they  take them home again barricading the gates and guarding the  approaches The males of the Anthill like those of the Bee  hive are nonentities except in the paternal character of which  however all the duties devolve as we have seen upon the  indefatigable workers Their maternal majesties or queens are  more estimable personages having as foundresses of colonies  been in their time meritorious hardworkers themselves  however they may enjoy afterwards the sweets of wellearned  leisure Both the last named classes the aristocracy of their  tribe are accustomed to keep their state in private till after  midsummer when they often exhibit themselves mingled with  the vulgar herd on the domes of or adjacent to their cities  Seen thus associate they may be known as Ants by their  company but they differ so widely from the working sisterhood  not only in possessing wings but in shape size and some  times colour as to appear like insects of another kind  In these the differing forms of the different orders of a  Formic community we perceive an admirable fitness for the  respective parts assigned them The workers with bodies  narrow jointed and pliant strong limbs large heads and large  powerful jaws are framed for all activities of labour and of  war The lordly idlers thicker bodied more delicately limbed  smaller headed destitute entirely of trenchant mandibles the  universal tool and w T eapon of the warlike workers and pos  sessed of wings which would serve only as encumbrances in  toils chiefly subterranean thus bear externally their warrant  of exemption from taking part therein Last not least the  queenly females of matronly and portlybulk and with pinions  of regal amplitude white and glittering are endowed equally  with proper persons proper to their places   Sore wondren some on cause of thunder  On ebb and flood on gossamer and mist  And on all things till that the cause is wist  The weather is dry warm and still yet without a gleam of  sunshine a combination of winter gloom with almost summer  mildness Gossamer is floating or falling slowly through the  air numerous spiders are hanging motionless head downwards  in the centre of their geometric webs lying in wait for prey  while others restlessly ascending blades of grass or railposts  are inwardly invoking we suspect the presence of some gentle  air to assist them in shooting their lines those threads of  suspension long and strong on which is to hang the ingenious  fabric of their toils This shooting of the spiders lines and  that associate wonder the origin of Gossamer may as well  form our not unseasonable theme Autumn indeed is more  especially the period when   Gossamer floats or stretched from blade to blade  The wavy network whitens all the field  but October if we are permitted to enjoy its mellow riches we  shall find so much more fertile than the present month in insect  subjects that we are glad to take this of Gossamer now  from the comparatively few instead of choosing it then from  amongst the many  The apparent flight of the wingless spider from tree to tree  across water and even through the upper regions of air has  been almost as great a puzzle to naturalists as the Flys walk  against gravity It was no doubt soon discovered that this  flight in seeming was no more a real one than that of an  aeronaut in a balloon or than those of the foolhardy adven  turers such as from the times of Hogarth to our own have now  and then made ropeborne transits from steeple to steeple  That the spider travelled by a line was apparent enough to  nice observers but the marvel long was how such lengthy  lines could be shot forth as when attached accidentally to  some fixed body serve to provide the insect traveller with  a cable bridge to cross from plant to plant or from tree to  tree or when floating loosely serve equally to promote the  more ambitious purpose of bearing him upwards when dis  posed to mount in air  Conjectures numerous and intricate as thse aeronautic  threads and often baseless as themselves when detached from  their point d appui have been hazarded on the above curious  subject but it seems now pretty clearly ascertained that air is  the chief and indispensable agent in the shooting of the lines  and consequent progress or ascent of the aeronautic spider  Several of these insects were placed on a branch fixed upright  in a vessel of water On exposure to a slight current of air  they all directed their chests towards the quarter from whence  it came and each emitted from its raised spinneret a small  portion of glutinous matter which was instantly carried out  into a line The Spiders then ascertained by pulling at them  with their legs whether or not these threads had taken hold of  and become attached to any object and in this case after  having tightened they made them fast to the branch they  occupied thus forming bridges for escape over which they  passed in safety drawing after them a second line as a security  in case the first should fail This was always their mode of  proceeding when in the way of a current but under a bellglass  some were found to remain seventeen days without being able  to produce a single line whereby to quit their watergirt branch  of durance By a thread similarly produced but unattached  the little aeronaut can spring up into the air nor is it says  Mr Rennie indispensable for her to rest upon a solid body  when producing a line as she can do so while suspended in  the air by another  However incurious about their mode of formation nobody  can have taken an early morning walk especially towards  autumn without having noticed these lines or webs of the  Gossamer Spider spread over hedge and field a silken network  studded with dewdrop diamonds The prodigious extent of  these woven fabrics only corresponds with the surprising mul  titude of their fabricators of whom twenty or thirty will some  times be found assembled upon one straw of stubble It would  appear on these occasions as if a portion of the skylarks  soaring spirit infused by his animating song was at work  within these little creeping forms All seem bent upon the  object of ascension all are in progress towards the summit of  their respective stations whether stubble straw blade of grass  hedgetwig or railing Having climbed to the greatest height  their legs will carry them they raise their abdomens to a  position nearly perpendicular at the same time emitting a  portion of the glutinous substance which forms their webs  this being acted on by the ascending current is presently drawn  out into fine long lines when the spiders quitting their hold  of the objects whereon they stand are carried aloft on their  journey towards the clouds  FORMATION OF GOSSAMER  Thus in the words of Paley has this little animal with no  wings or muscles enabling it to dart a path laid for it by its  Creator in the atmosphere Though the Spider itself be  heavier than air the thread it spins is specifically lighter  This is its balloon left to itself it would drop to the ground  but being tied to the thread it is supported All Spiders  however different the form of their webs are said to proceed  alike in shooting their lines but those who may desire to  watch the process above described are recommended by  Mr Bennie to select for their observation one or other of the  following species common in almost every field and garden  The small Gossamer known by its shining blackishbrown  body and reddish transparent legs or the Longbodied Spider  which varies in colour from green to grey or brownish but  has always a black line along the belly with a silvery white or  yellowish one on each side  Having thus seen the way in which Spiders shoot their  lines we come now to the examination of Gossamer of which  these lines form the material After having served singly  their fabricators turn either as bridges to cross the vacant  gulf or as balloons to rise sky wards they are brought together  by the action of gentle airs gradually assume the shape of  fleecy flakes composed of irregular silky masses and then by  an ascending current of rarified air are borne hundreds of feet  into the atmosphere On falling when the upward current  ceases it would appear by observation of the naturalist above  referred to that few of these webs contain a Spider though  numerous winged insects are found entangled in them Dr  Lister however found more than once in the webs which  he saw fall from heaven one of these mounting Spiders which  he calls birds and describes some of them as converting  their floating lines into chariots or balloons of flake by pulling  them in with their forefeet as they fly From the top of York  Minster the same observer watched the descent of webs high  above him and on examination of some caught on the pinnacles  of the cathedral considered such of the adventurous aeronauts  as he found within them to be all juveniles of light weight  corresponding to their age One of them he calls an excellent  ropedancer wonderfully delighted with darting its threads  adding that by means of its legs closely applied to each other it  as it were balances itself and promotes and directs its course no  otherwise than as if nature had furnished it with wings or oars  The above appears at least a probable account of the  formation of Gossamer that substance of earthly and not  celestial manufacture to the mystery of whose origin Chaucer  alludes in our prefixed motto Some two centuries later in  the days of Spenser our ancestors seem to have arrived at no  likelier solution of this natural enigma than the supernatural  idea that these rising and falling fleeces were composed of dew  burned by the sun the Poet speaking of them as  The fine nets which oft we woven see  Of scorched dew  This is a strange supposition viewed either as poetic or as  popular but stranger still was that of Dr Hooke a learned  philosopher and first Fellow of the Royal Society who lived  in times so much nearer our own as the latter part of the  17th century On microscopic scrutiny of these webs looking  most like a flake of worsted ready to be spun he surmised  that it was not unlikely that those great white clouds that  appear all the summer time may be of the same substance  From the floating lines and aerial chariots of the Spiders  which make Gossamer let us descend to a few of the humbler  fabrics woven by the same and various other species to serve  as habitations or as snares  Who is not familiar too familiar for appreciation of their  excellent workmanship with the radiate wheellike nets so  common in gardens and on hedges throughout the summer  and on dewy autumn mornings rendered so brightly conspi  cuous by the liquid pearls which they serve to string In  addition to these borrowed gems the spiral lines of geometric  webs have been shown by the microscope to be beset by a  number of viscid globules The ingenious weavers of these  wheels within wheels are various species of that tribe of  Spiders called from their lines and circles the Geometric  those of them most commonly known are the Garden  Epeira Diadema and the Longbodied Tetragnatha  extensa noticed already among the aeronauts As with these  the first operation of our geometric spinner is to throw out a  floating line which having caught on some convenient hold  fast she strengthens with additional threads till it forms a  strong cable of support to which from various adjacent points  she proceeds to add others until an irregular framework is  prepared for the radiated net which is to be hung within it  Using her own limbs as rule and compasses to measure the  distance of its spokes and circles she then constructs her geo  metric wheel and when completed most usually forms its  centre with her body still as death but all eyes and ears  and sentient feet ready to spring on the first victim that enters  her fatal maze Occasionally she leaves vacant the centre of  her net but it is only to lurk hard by under a leaf or other  covert  In these wheellike snares there is extreme diversity of size  Stretching across from tree to tree we have seen them occupy  the breadth of a broad garden walk and have found others  comprised within the narrow area of a single leaf  Among the outdoor fabrics woven by Spiders which can  hardly fail to attract the eye however little they may fix atten  tion are those large white broadsheets sloping downwards into  tunnels of which numbers are so frequently seen spread out  upon the grass and lower bushes These webs of which each  serves a single occupant both as a residence and a snare are  attached by silken ropes to adjacent objects The sides of the  horizontal broadsheet sloping obliquely downwards till nearly  perpendicular form towards its centre a cylindrical tunnel and  sitting near its mouth the lurker shaded by the darkness of her  covered way is ready to rush forth and seize on the first hapless  wanderer that becomes entangled in her fatal web This  cunning artificer can only be captured by the artifice of getting  behind and driving her upwards and out of her tunnel into  which she always descends upon the first alarm  In addition to the silken material of which they always carry  with them an internal magazine there are various out door  Spiders which employ leaves in the construction of their  retreats and that after a fashion both ingenious and elegant  We have sometimes plucked a rolled up lilac or young oak leaf  expecting to find it tenanted by a leafrolling Caterpillar when  lo upon the scroll being opened out ran a small longbodied  Spider which after lining it with silk had taken possession of  it as his cell Structures more spacious consisting not of one  but of several leaves lined and united by a silken web serve  often for the abodes of various Spiders found in woods and  gardens but of these few are so curious and elegant as a  singleleaf cell which we have often found on nettles In this  the point and sides of the leaf being turned over so as to  meet at the edges are conjoined with silk and on carefully  forcing up one of the corners of the green triangle we intrude  on the domestic privacy of a maternal Spider keeping tender  watch over her bag or ball of eggs  Everybody must have sometimes noticed both within doors  and without a spider thus brooding over a ball usually bigger  spiders eggs and their envelopes  than her body with which on alarm she makes off with all  possible expedition These balls popularly known as Spiders  eggs are in fact made up of a numerous group of them  enclosed within a woven envelope and the way in which these  spinning mothers proceed to  tie their treasure up in silken bags  is another very curious exercise of their weaving art Using  her own body after the manner pf a nestbuilding bird as a  measure for its circumference the spider spins first the  lower half of her intended covering which in this stage of its  progress resembles a cup or nest She then proceeds to lay  her eggs and over these when piled up within weaves a  convex cover which united with the receptacle at bottom  renders the ball complete These silken eggpurses vary in  colour those of the HouseSpiders being white of the common  Garden yellow of other outdoor species blue or greenish  In form they are usually globular but variations from this  shape are occasionally met with Last summer we noticed an  exceedingly pretty one in the instance of a small greenish Spider  variegated with white of which we found many on the leaves  of a wall plum tree keeping watch and ward over their nests  These which were attached to the under side of the leaf were  white and of an elegant urnlike shape something resembling  the seed case of a poppy Bound the circumference of the top  or cover were five and in other specimens seven points  another rising pyramidically from its centre  We have as yet said nothing of the toils of the common  HouseSpider but so secretly and slily does that cunning  artificer ply her craft that some of the most clever natu  ralists have been puzzled and are still at fault as to the precise  manner in which she goes to work One has declared that she  can weave the warp and weave the woof but as observed  by another if she ever possessed she has in these modern  days forgot this process in her manufacture When in com  mencing her horizontal fabric she desires to stretch her  first line from wall to wall across her chosen corner it would  appear that she walks round the intervening angle carrying in  one of her claws the end of her thread which has been  previously fixed a mode of proceeding supposed by Rennie  to be requisite on account of the horizontal position of her net  which could not be ensured by allowing its first line to be  fixed at hazard as with those shot out by the weavers of  Gossamer  Numerous other Spiderwrought fabrics as varied in shape  and texture as in their process of formation and intended for  snares for habitations or for eggnests are constructed by the  hairylegged spinners of our native island but perhaps we  must look for the deacons of their craft amongst those of  foreign extraction None for instance of our Arachnean  artificers at present known are able we believe to compete  with the marvellous skill of the Mason Spider of the tropics  and of Southern Europe which to the mouth of its retreat an  excavated subterranean cell tapestried with silk contrives to  adjust an earthkneaded door hung upon a silken hinge and  selfclosing with an elastic spring after each entrance and  exit of the ca vends occupant  Eor description in full of this foreign masterpiece of  Arachnean architecture we must refer to other pages and  pursuing the main purpose of our own invite attention to  the constructive skill of one more native Spider  Who has not seen or is not curious to behold that lion  of the Polytechnic the divingbell Now those who for lack of  opportunity are among the latter may see a divingbell in mina  ture by repairing to the brink of some running stream canal  or ditch provided it be not stagnant in the neighbourhood of  London or elsewhere There they may perceive shining through  the water a little globe apparently of silver which surrounds as  with a garment the body of a Diving Spider whose submerged  habitation and curious economy have been described as follows  by different observers These Spiders says De Geer spin in  the water a cell of strong closely woven white silk in the form  of a divingbell or half a pigeons egg This is sometimes  quite submerged at others partly above the water and is  always attached to some objects near it by a number of  irregular threads It is closed all round but has a large  opening below which however I found closed on the 15 th of  December and the Spider living quietly within with her head  downwards I made a rent in this cell and expelled the air upon  which the Spider came out yet though she appeared to have  been laid up for three months in her winter quarters she  greedily seized on and sucked an insect The male as well as  the female constructs a similar subaqueous cell and during  summer as well as winter One of these spiders was kept by  Mr Rennie several months in a glass of water where it built  a cell half submersed in which it laid its eggs These are  enclosed in bags of yellow silk and are hatched in summer  But it is in the pages of Kirby and Spence that we find  the habitations and habits of this amphibious architect most  strikingly and pleasantly describedt Her abode say they  built in water and formed of air is constructed on philosophic  principles and consists of a subaqueous yet dry apartment in  which like a mermaid or a seanymph she resides in comfort  Loose threads attached in various directions to the leaves of  aquatic plants form the framework of her chamber Over  these she spreads a transparent elastic varnish like liquid  glass which issues from the middle of her spinners next she  spreads over her belly a pellicle of the same material and  ascends to the surface to inhale and carry down a supply of  atmospheric fluid Head downwards and with her body all  but the spinneret still submersed our diver by a process  which does not seem precisely ascertained introduces a bubble  of air beneath the pellicle which surrounds her Clothed in  this aerial mantle which to the spectator seems formed of  resplendent quicksilver she then plunges to the bottom and  with as much dexterity as a chemist transfers gas with a  gasholder introduces her bubble of air beneath the roof  prepared for its reception this manoeuvre is ten or twelve times  repeated and when she has transported sufficient air to expand  her apartment to its intended extent she possesses an aerial  edifice an enchanted palace where unmoved by storms she  devours her prey at ease Fancywoven from the foregoing  description is the Fairy Tale which forms the subject of the  next episode  THE FRESHWATER SIREN   My airbuilt bower come and see   Stranger come and dwell with me  An armourclad Rover is sauntering near  At the Sirens sweet accents he pricks up his ear   Gramercy quoth he She bespeaketh me kind   And to pay her my devoirs Ive almost a mind  u If saint or if sinner would show me the road   To this goodnatured damsels alfresco abode  Then he looked at the water exploring it through  And there if his sight brought him evidence true  He beheld neath its surface in silver bedight  A most lovely Ladye No gallant young Knight  Could wish for a fairer in air and in mien  Tho as to her face not a feature was seen  Twas so veiled in the blaze of her mantles bright sheen  Again sweetly she sang See my watergirt home   Come down to my palace of pleasure oh come  But the Knight he stood dubious the streamlet was deep  He prudently looked ere he ventured to leap  But the Ladye impatient upraised neck and hand  To grasp hold of his as he stood on the land  Then ye powers of darkness the sight that he sees  Any mortals warm blood was sufficient to freeze  Though boiling beneath a fierce tropical sun  Or on Lawrences gridiron very near done  The most bleareyed of witches the nightmare most foul  The most grim of hobgoblins the loathsomest ghoule  Would have seemed as the fairest of Eves lovely daughters  To the horrible thing half raised out of the waters  Its long hairy arms so gaunt rigid and thin  Were as dark and as dry as an old mummys skin  Its eyes glassy and fixed as a fishs when dead  Glared fiercely like fiery coals in its head  And like lamps were hung over its horrible jaw  The portcullis that led to its cavernous maw  The grimlooking spectre but rose as a flash  That blasted the vision then sank with a splash  And enwrapped in her mantle of magical light  Once more seemed a fairy all beauteous and bright  Save only the hand raised the water above  Which still circled the wrist of the warriors glove  This wight and a fortunate hap twas for him  Was not framed like us mortals in body or limb  Neath the back of his glittering corselet lay hid  Like Jackinthebox crumpled under his lid  A pair of transparent and powerful wings  Could be folded and opened by wonderful springs  From all that hed seen hed a pretty good notion  That now was the time to set them in motion  So his hand snatched away without further ado  Wide open the plates of his corselet he threw  And a moment beheld him high poised in the air  Looking down with a smile on the Sirens despair  While uprose from the water her soft witching strain  Sung sweetly as erst though I wist now in vain   My airbuilt bower come and see   Come stranger come and dwell with me  By my fay quoth the Knight Fve beheld quite enough   And as for your bower tis all a mere puff   Fd only advise you when next youM deceive   To keep to your element so take my leave  With a shriek of despair the witch rose up once more  Looking though it was hard still more grim than before  Then she sank with a splash like a ponderous stone  Disappeared at the bottom and muttered a groan  Mumbled many a curse on the gallant winged rover  Crouched in dolorous rage till her spleen was gone over  Then determined her twig to redaub with new lime  And not suffer her bird to escape the next time  On the day of her birth  Or on that of the earth  Or on some such grand anniversary  Queen Nature made sport  With the dames of court  And the bairns of her royal nursery  From a giltedged cloud  The lark sang loud  The fish were in extasy leaping  Each leaf danced light  In the sunshine bright  And none but the owls were sleeping  All animate things  With responsive strings  Then abroad on the sunny earth  Unless by age rusted  Or trouble encrusted  Were as harps in the hand of mirth  With the rest of the revellers a young Gallant gay  Eight proud in the gloss of his silken array  By the glistening water was sauntering along  Now cutting the rushes now humming a song  Careless of all if he had known a care  Twas the loss Bother day of a treacherous fair  He had merrily whistled her down the wind  And now twas heighho but another to find  Black or brown red or blue if of feminine gender  All other enchantments the season would lend her  Looking blithely about him around and around  In every direction except on the ground  Our gay Gallant stumbled now guess ye on what  On viper or toad or a sherd of a pot  His hair bristled with fright with fear dropped his jaw  Yet hed trodden on naught save a feminine paw  Hairy and black and armed with a claw  Squatting toadfashion amidst the sedge  Which divided the path from the waters edge  Sat our former acquaintance the baffled crone  Now wearing no semblance excepting her own  From bottom to top from one end to the other  Unveiled to the sight well I wot such another  Was not to be seen on that fine summers day  When all wore their best faces and brightest array  There again were the arms so long hairy and spare  The fiery fixed eyes with their horrible glare  The misshapen head with a great corporation  Whose members were wasted to attenuation  Oh well might out Gallants heart quiver and quake  Well might his limbs like an aspen leaf shake  Well his jaw it might drop well might bristle his hair  As the loathly old creature bespoke him thus fair   Courteous Sir why this alarm  Fear no hindrance dread no harm  Im a gentle Fairy Sprite  For beauty famed  The Peerless named  Suffering under foul despite   In an unpropitions hour  A jealous Fay of greater power  Enwrapped me in a magic spell  Hid beneath this streamlet deep  Where waterelves their revels keep  Eor a space Em doomd to dwell   Or if I rise to upper air  My proper form so bright and fair  Assumes this strange and hateful guise  Now if you doubt the words I say  As woe is me perchance you may  Then gentle Sir believe your eyes  As she uttered these words sliding off from the bank  The illfavoured thing like a crocodile sank  And then in a trice her form shrouded in light  In a silvery mantle which dazzled the sight  Again she uplifted that sweet siren strain  So oft she had sung and of late sung in vain   My airbuilt bower come and see   Come stranger come and dwell with me  As she warbled our Gallants unused trepidation  Gave way to a species of queer fascination  He gazes debates Is it far beyond credence  That the witchs fine tale obtained something like heedence  When hundreds jump into some Lake of Killarney  With no witchery at all save some fair Katherines blarney  Oh twas then for some raven to croak in his ear  Or one crow boding sorrow to flap her wings near  But alas in that hour of revel and rout  Not an ominous thing was seen lurking about  One more dubious look on the water he cast  One look on the sun that look was his last  Underneath the bright water and neath the bright sun  A most horrible deed on that day was done  The blue streamlet put on a deep rubicund dye  And the fishes felt qualmish they could not tell why  Part m Cfitrh  Fast as acorns in autumn fall into a pool  In the Sirens receiver droppd many a fool  I wot those that got in were neer known to get out  But by tongues in the air it was bruited about  That a beauteous enchantress who lived upon flesh  Was the fowler that caught these young birds in her mesh  The place where she lurked none exactly could tell  Though many looked wise just as if they knew well  And others said waking or else in a dream  They had seen something float in the crystal stream  Thus the Sirens abode or its neighbouring location  Obtained by degrees but a sad reputation  Yet the beldame found out a fact provd in society  That there s nothing so gainful as bad notoriety  Her decoy overflowed where she caught one before  Well I ween she would now lay hold of a score  From old and from young from high and from low  From widows in weeds and from maidens in woe  There now daily arose such a shrill lamentation  That it entered at length the long ears of the nation  The deputies meet vent a torrent of pity  And their eloquence spent they appoint a committee  To sit on this cockatrice egg of affright  And try if they couldnt bring something to light  It might seem a hard task information to glean  On what people knew nought of and scarcely had seen  Yet of witnesses numerous I wot was no lack  And of evidence ample to break a mules back  Strange the mystery remaind without further solution  But then the committee passd this resolution  A wonderful judgment carried nem con  That the parties yet absent were certainly gone  To which an amendment was finally carried  That theyd not have been lost if at home they had tarried  After all there were gentlemen missd as before  And the waterwitch throve as shed thriven of yore  But twas vain now for wives of bereavement to chatter  Bor the senate declared having sat on the matter  That the grievance in question was certainly crushed  And that all future murmurs must therefore be hushed  But cheer up all ye widows whose loss is no gain  A champion is near to avenge all your pain  Cheer up wives and maidens dismiss your alarms  Not long the foul Siren shall work her fell charms  Look not down to the earth but look up on high  Your deliverer comes cutting athwart the blue sky  On light sprays hung  By silk cords slung  Oerarched by a silken dome  Is the airy hall  With waterproof wall  Where the Siren makes her home  By a waving screen  Of emerald green  Her bower is girt about  But a lucent gleam  From the sparkling stream  Looks in from the world without  For a river sprite  Or a naiad bright   Twas fit for a fairy queen  Nay that pendent cell  Might have suited well  For the boudoir of sweet Ondine  In this nice little snuggery sat the witch crone  Deep immersed in the sweets of a large marrowbone  In the mill of her jaws it went crunch crunch crunch  As the juices flowed out she went munch munch munch  Little dreaming that trouble and danger impended  She took her siesta when dinner was ended  No company present she knew but the dead  In perfect composure she nodded her head  Thus she sat till the moonlight with fitful gleam  Peered in thro the glass of the crystal stream  Here it shone on a bundle of sculls pickd bare  There it fell on a tissue of tangled hair  On a fragment glanced of some knights bright armour  Who had fallen a prey to the treacherous charmer  And the moonlight gave all a sepulchral hue  Through the waving green as it flickered through  The foul creature starts in a tremor awakes  Is it the wind that too boisterously shakes  The tremulous cords of her watergirt dome  Or is it the voice of her crimes coming home  She looks up in affright through a fearful chasm  Twas enough to bring on quite a nervous spasm  Down comes the water rushing and roaring  From the roof of her cell in a torrent pouring  But since witches can swim what in this to appal  Why perhaps no great deal but this was not all  Riding down on the wave like a ship in a gale  The bright moonbeams illuming his coat of mail  Came the winged knight shed once thought of entrapping  And who now in return had just caught her napping   At last at your bidding Im come dame quoth he  The Siren looked blue but no word spoke she  Then they meet in as loving collision I trow  As when flint strikes on steel or fire falls on tow  For the hub bub around them they care not a rush  The waters may roar and the waters may gush  The once airproppd dome all to pieces may shiver  Then struggling they rise on the breast of the river  The knight swam like a drake the witch like a duck  Or the Old Ones dam but the Old Ones own luck  Will now and then fail like the luck of a sinner  And the witch by ill luck had made too good a dinner  Indigestion surprise and some sickening alarms  Of terrorstruck conscience unnerved her strong arms  Her foul bloated body now sank and now rose  While a scratch for a thrust she returned the hard blows  That came pattering like hail on her tough old hide  As her mailclad opponent his falchion plied  Till the moon had gone down did the battle last  When the game was up the beldame was cast  As a Siren she troubled the world no more  But a charmed life by worse luck she bore  And with small change of manners and little of feature  Was transformed to a Spider a dark cunning creature  That beneath running waters constructs a dry cell  Where through summer and winter shes wont to dwell  While the knight gainst whose prowess her sorceries failed  Is the Great Water Beetle amphibious and mailed  Ye lovers of marvel and fairy lore  Say not that the days of enchantment are oer  That the wellsprings of Taney and Table fail  Tor they water the realms whence weve drawn our tale  There are streamlets yet where the riversprite  With his Harlequin changes bewilders the sight  There are castles yet of ivory and gold  Hung with floral fabrics by sunshine unrolld  Within whose luxurious recesses recline  Tays of exquisite form quaffing exquisite wine  Some in gossamer veiled of ethereal dyes  Which have only their match in the rainbow d skies  Some in richest and softest of velvets arrayed  Or in mail that does shame to the armourers trade  These are haunting us ever for ill or for good  Through earth and through air field forest and flood  To transport our thoughts as by magic spell  From the sordid objects whereon they dwell  To a land of the Marvellous dimly displayed  Where the lightwinged Fancy by wonder stayed  Still delighteth to hover and joyously say   Oh my darling elves yere not chased away   Theres a region still where ye have a place   The mysterious world of the Insect race  it it mailflair   Let no presuming impious railer tax  Creative wisdom as if ought was formd  In vain or not for admirable ends  Leigh Hunt tells us in his Indicator that an Italian Jesuit  Giulio Cordara has written a Poem upon Insects which he  begins by insisting that those troublesome and abominable  little animals were created only for our annoyance and that  they were certainly not inhabitants of Paradise Now we  scarcely know what to think of the good Fathers notion except  that it was hatched probably under a swarm of Mosquitos or  under dread of Scorpion or Tarantula Tis certain that the  flowers even of Paradise must have wanted a charm without  the basking Butterfly and humming Bee while on the other  hand we can hardly imagine the leaves of Adams garden ever  to have been gnawed by tooth of Caterpillar or that the  worm i the bud ever preyed on the unexpanded cheeks of his  damask roses still less that the fair fingers of our common  mother were ever when employed to cull or train them in  danger of being wounded by the poisoned dart of a Bee lurker  We have indeed the authority of our mighty Milton for sup  posing that across the threshold of Eves bower where   Underfoot the violet  Crocus and hyacinth with rich inlay  Broidered the ground more coloured than with stone  Of costliest emblem other creature there  Beast bird insect or worm durst enter none  Such was their awe of man  But from this it must not be inferred that their entrance  would have been dangerous but that their absence was essential  to the strict retirement of that blest retreat To meet then  the supposition that nothing save what was gentle and unin  jurious existed before mans fall we must needs conclude in  harmless speculation that the first Butterflies knowing no  Caterpillar youth were created Butterflies from the beginning  to sport over roses without thorns and that the first race of  Bees were formed stingless to collect their nectiferous harvest  from Cassia nard and balm that wilderness of sweets  without a bitter A Bee without a sting is not bytheway  even now a creature of imagination Huber their celebrated  historian having received a present of some such from Mexico  Constituted thus of harmless nature we may suppose the  earliest use of Insects like that of birds and other creatures to  have chiefly consisted in the forming each according to its  measure and degree various fitting receptacles of that life and  happiness which it was then as now the great purpose and  pleasure of their Creator to bestow Pilling their assigned  place in the book of Nature they were also no doubt made to  perform an essential part in the divine instruction of our first  parents  Spite therefore of our Jesuits fleabitten theology we may  fairly infer that amongst the creeping and flying things of  first creation Insects were included and that the vernal airs  of Eden were no desert airs for lack of a glittering mul  titude of ever joyous sporters in the sun and shade Even for  uses economic who can say but that in addition to   Fruits of all kinds in coats  Rough or smooth rind or bearded husk or shell 3  and juice of grape and dulcet cream of almonds the  grassy breakfastboard of Eve might not have been furnished  with honey purer than was ever collected in Narbonne or  on Hymettus Indeed if honey was ever stored at all by the  Bees of Paradise it must have been rather for the use of man  than for their own since to amass a winters provision would  have been labour lost in a clime where reigned eternal  spring At all events we read repeatedly of honey as  secondary to milk alone amongst the flowing bounties of the  Promised Land and throughout the nations of antiquity  sacred and profane the busy communities of Bees seem to have  held in those of the human race a degree of importance which  sufficiently attests their value as taxgatherers on the vegetable  kingdom  iknd why were Bees immortalised in the verse of Yirgil  except on the same principle as that which led man to deify  his brother man It was wholly for their usefulness since  there is little doubt that but for their important economic  service their own wonderful economy would have been as much  overlooked as it was misapprehended Ants it is true with  no such claim upon human notice attracted it scarcely less  witness the ancient records of their wars but these are com  paratively recent and it is likely that the marvels of Apian  monarchies first led to observation of the ways and wonders of  Pismire Republics  Of the value of honey and its extensive use we in our own  country and our own times since the introduction of sugar  can have seldom perhaps entertained anything like a just notion   a much lower estimate at all events than the Ukraine  peasant with his 400 or 500 beehives or a Spanish priest  possessor of 5000  About the uses of wax a word byandby but with the  aroma of honey in our nostrils and its flavour on our lips let us  think whether we are indebted to Insects for any other des  cription of palative luxury Why no say those who have  only lived and looked at home but they who have been at  Eome may tell us that snails are there commonly sold and  eaten especially as Lenten food Well but snails are not  Insects true though they were once so considered but we  have only to go back to the commencement of the Christian era  and we shall find that while John the Baptist was subsisting  in the desert of Judea upon the simple and ordinary fare of   locusts and wild honey imperial luxurious Eome was  regaling in her banquet halls upon veritable Insects luscious  Caterpillar grubs fattened on flour as we fatten oysters upon  meal This was the Cossus of Pliny and supposed identical  with the unsightly wooddevouring larva of the great Goat  Moth a lurid red and yellowish Caterpillar bulky black  headed and blackclawed a darkling dweller in the trunk of oak  or willow of which in due season we have much more to tell  Again without going back at all into remote ages we have  only to go east and west north and south into countries which  now brought near by the power of steam are remote no longer  and we shall still find men in daily commission of what to the  narrow ken of prejudice may seem the enormity of Insecteating  thereto incited in one quarter by the caprice of Epicurean  luxury in another by the united pressure of indolence and  scarcity The two extremes of society civilized and barbarous  are here brought together in one common habit See in the  West Indies the French planter gourmand and sometimes the  English as his copyist seated at his luxurious table oiling  the hinges of his wornout appetite with those lumps of insect  fatness known as the grubs of the Palm Weevil and then turn  to the poor degraded Hottentot squatted on the arid ground  swallowing by handfuls White Ants roasted washed down by  Locust soup or just as often too hungry or too indolent to  dress them devouring the uncooked Insects  But after all none can pronounce these AcridopAagi or  Locusteaters as monsters of singularity in their mode of diet  Was not the Locust after its kind expressly allowed for  food by the Mosaic Law and from the time of its institution  even to the present does not the law of Nature ever kind and  provident permit this insect scourge of humanity to be con  verted into a medium of supporting human life Since in all  countries a prey to their ravages in Syria Arabia Persia  Ethiopia Egypt and Barbary locusts are still an article of  provision in more or less extensive use And from what  but prejudice arises our disgust at Insectfeeding P Our king  Jamie of pedantic memory was said to have pronounced  him a vera valiant man who first adventured on eating  oysters and truly we opine that he must have been quite as  much a hero in his way as the dweller in Surinam or the  Mauritius who first engulfed a fat Palm Weevil grub  Why should the Frenchman wiping his mouth after Snail soup  mans omnivorous appetite  laugh at the Chinaman smacking his lips after a dish of Silk  worm chrysalides Shrimpeaters as we are why should we  stare at the locustfeeding Ethiop or Arab and why should he  who has supped off roasted crabs despise a New Caledonian  for seasoning his breakfast with a relish of roasted Spiders  Instead of thanking our stars for our own discriminating  taste let us then rather thank Providence for that omnivorous  appetite common to our race Herein let us recognise a dis  tinguished provision by which our brother man when located  in barren lands or overtaken by accidental scarcity is enabled  to draw supplies from almost every department of nature  We only marvel that Gastronomy than whom even Necessity  herself can scarcely boast a more numerous progeny of inven  tions and resources should not in the demand of her votaries  for new modes have been led to seek more frequently for new  materiel out of the Insect Kingdom This however may be  reserved for some future time Cockchafers and Chafer grubs  may yet become articles for the London springmarket and  Pates de Sauterelles may yet have a place in second courses  The idea is not Utopian neither is it new for Dr Darwin  long ago recommended the former as a delicate addition to the  list of entremets and the Eev Mr Shepherd who himself  dared to venture on the thing unknown pronounced the large  Green Grasshopper to be excellent And why not Pull of  sweet vegetable juices fresh imbibed and in some cases as in  Aphides scarcely altered wherefore should Insects in the shape  of diet be viewed with abhorrence and disgust and that  forsooth by coarse shamblefed animals living upon stallfed  oxen and styfed swine  Insects once occupied a place as important as herbs in the  list of sovereign remedies To take a Woodlouse or Mille  pedes perhaps alive and conveniently selfrolled for the occa  sion was as common as to take a vegetable pill Five Gnats  were administered with as much confidence as three grains of  calomel In an alarming fit of cholic no visitor with a dram  of peppermint could have been more cordially welcomed or  swallowed than a Ladybird Flywater was eyewater and  even that watershunning monster Hydrophobia was urged to  lap aqua pur a by the administration of a dry Cockchafer  Like other dogs and drugs these have all had their day in the  world of medicine but have left behind them that salutary  biter the Cantharides or Spanish Fly of Europe and the  Meloe Chicorei used by the natives of the Celestial Empire for  the same purpose of drawing off terrestrial humours  When from inward remedies and regalements we turn to  outward adornments we are instantly reminded of our obli  gations to those spinning millions   That in their green shops weave the smoothhaired silk  But stay are we indeed debtors to those busy insectartificers  who by furnishing material for velvet robes and silken gowns  and silken banners have ministered so largely to the pride of  the eye and the pride of life May not the Silkworm be  ranked rather among the dangerous than the useful gifts of  nature We think not for assuredly if Silkworms and silk  had never been some other production how coarse soever  would have served just as well to keep human vanity alive and  warm In ancient times that lightwinged passion nestled  quite as snugly in the folds of fine linen and the same fact is  sufficiently attested by modern instances To say nothing of  handkerchiefs those laced and broidered abominations  displayed by our countrywomen in token of a human infirmity  we may notice those curiously wrought stockings of Lisle  thread for which enormous prices have been given and  which prove clearly enough that the feet of Eves daughters  can be tangled quite as easily in vanitynets of vegetable  growth as in those of the worms weaving  How entirely conventional has been the value attached to  silk apparel Montaigne gives us in his Essays a striking  instance Speaking of the worse than uselessness of sump  tuary laws to restrain the luxury of dress which by making  it an exclusive badge of rank they rather tended to encourage  he recommends for the much more effectual repression of  expensive indulgences the adoption by princes and nobles of  the simplest habits both of dress and living which would then  forthwith become the mode in most repute In support of  this position he adduces the contempt into which silk dresses  fell on the following occasion When says he in conse  quence of the mourning for King Henry II cloth was ordered  to be worn at court for a year so low did silk fall in every  bodys estimation that whosoever continued to wear it was set  down at once as a lowborn cit In short les habits de soie  were entirely abandoned to surgeons and physicians  Be it also remembered that though silken sheen has  been always considered by us of Europe an article more or less  of luxury in Asia it has been for ages one of absolute use  While at Borne silk was valued at its weight in gold and the  Emperor Aurelian refused his Empress a silken robe because  it was too dear the lean unwashed artificer of China was  in some provinces clothed in his silken garment To the latter  country under the name of Serica has been attributed the  discovery of weaving Silkworm threads whence the Latin  holosericum or silken garment of which the first is said to  have been worn by the Emperor Heliogabalusf In the days  of Solomon we are told a woman named Pamphila of the  Island of Cos was skilled in the art of making cloth from this  country of Serica or China Du Halde says that the most  ancient of the Chinese writers ascribe the invention to one of  the women of the Emperor Hoang Ei named Silung and so  important was the discovery held that all the women in the  Emperors Palace were employed in rearing the worms and  weaving their productions Nor indeed could the Chinese  have valued silk too highly either as an article of home use or  as a very principal one of commerce before it was cultivated  and manufactured in other countries  The eggs of the Silk worm are said to have been first brought  from India to Europe about the year 550 by two monks who  having concealed them in hollow canes introduced them at  Constantinople from whence they reached Italy That country  became then the grand European emporium for silk both raw  and manufactured In the reign of Henry YI there was a  company of silk women in England but these are supposed to  have been only needleworkers in silken thread our supply of  the broad manufacture not coming from Italy till 1489 About  1520 the French with Milanese workmen manufactured but  did not cultivate and in 1547 silk in France was still  scarce and dear Its cultivation was introduced into that  kingdom by Henri Quatre contrary to the opinion of Sully  Our James the First was no less earnest for its culture in  England and in 1608 vainly urged it from the throne  Twenty years later the silk manufactories of Britain had become  very considerable these were further improved by French work  men driven hither by the revocation of the Edict of Nantes  still more so by the invention of the silkthrowing machine at  Derby in 1719 and by 1730 we are told that even in Italy  the English silks bore a higher price than the Italian At  the present time although we import of silk goods very largely  we also export of the same even to countries which come in  competition with our own Our exports of these commodities  to France Germany and Italy were estimated in 1843 at the  value of near £200000 and in 1844 the quantity of raw silk  consumed at 4431812 lbs  Silk of late years so considerably cheapened will doubtless  be soon further reduced by our new relations with the  Celestial Empire and our present system of unrestricted trade  Who can tell but that silken gowns lowered as they already  are to within the tiptoe reach of the Million may not when  yet more accessible be fairly trampled on by the aristocratic  few  As connected with outward apparel as well as various other  arts of ornament our next obligation to Insects is for dyes  Cochineal which until the year 1694 was believed in Europe  to be a seed is now known by putting a few grains in warm  water to be an Insect a Coccus or wingless Beetle something  resembling in form those commonly found on the leaves of  grapevines and of the hawthorn It is a native of China and  other parts of Asia where the nopal or the prickly pear on  which it feeds is indigenous Of the great importance of  this Insect production as an article of commerce we may form  an idea from the recorded facts that the East India Company  offered a reward of £6600 for its introduction into India and  that some years ago the annual consumption probably much  increased in Great Britain alone was reckoned at 750 bags  worth £375000  Another species of Coccus found on the evergreen oak in  the south of Europe and Asia has furnished from the earliest  ages a bloodred crimson dye supplanted now by the CochineaL  It was known to the Phceniceans under the name of Tola to  the Greeks under that of Coccus to the Arabians and Persians  under that of Kermes or Alkermes Kirby suggests that this  was the dye probably used for the Tabernacle curtains then  serving for awhile to heighten the Pagan splendors of Greece  and Rome it returned once more to sacred uses in the scrip  tural figures of the Brussels and Plemish tapestries  Lac called either stick seed or shelllac according to its  state of preparation is the secretion of another sort of Coccus  found on various Indian trees and is used also as a red dye  but more extensively in varnishes japan and sealingwax  An African species of Mite is also used as a dye from  whence it has been suggested to try for the same purpose that  brilliant little Insect the scarletsatin Mite so common a fre  quenter of our gardens in early summer  But of all Insect productions none perhaps is more useful  none certainly more interesting than wax The little Bee her  self might verily become inflated with selfimportance could she  be aware of the exalted and varied purposes to which this pro  duct of her labours is applied by man How greatly is the reli  gious pageantry of the Roman catholic countries of Europe and  America indebted for much of its splendor and for more than  half perhaps of its influence on the mind dazzled through  the eye to the giant tapers of their sacred edifices each the  tribute of a thousand flowers collected and transmuted by a  thousand Bees Of all substances for the illumination of holy  fanes wax certainly is the most appropriate so sweet so pure  and in its origin leading back the thoughts to beautiful fields  and groves and gardens But through the groves which were  Gods first temples the intercepted sunbeams cast but a   dim religious light neither perhaps in temples made with  hands is an excess of illumination most in harmony with meek  devotion when from the spiritual darkness within and around  best typified by a measure of surrounding gloom it would  humbly look upwards towards the source and centre of all  light created or revealed In the halls of festive splendour no  less conspicuously though less appropriately shines the produce  of the Bees rustic labour Or walk we along the streets or  enter the lounges for amusement does not waxen imagery  from the shaven BlueBeards and pink Fatimas of the barbers  window to the noted and notorious of the earth the monarchs  and the murderers of Madame Tussauds show remind us of  the busy Insects who w r ere the first w r orkers of the plastic paste  Nor among the curious works of art whose basis is this work  of nature must we overlook the waxen flowers which in their  fadeless bloom and exquisite imitative beauty bring a garden  in all but perfume within the walls of the Pantheon This is  an interesting as well as elegant use of the rifled riches of  buds and bells thus paid back by perpetuation of their  fleeting loveliness It is needless to enumerate a variety of  other uses to which wax is applied for they are every where  apparent even in the comfortless dryrubbed floor of the French  hotel or chateau and the single mahogany table valued heir  loom of the English cottage wherein the housewife is fur  nished by the Bees industry with a mirrored reflection of her  own  Sealingwax as at present manufactured is only wax in name  being composed of gum or shelllac and turpentine coloured  with vermillion but in former times it was wax in nature and  even now the great seal of the Lord Chancellor and others of  official use are of veritable wax  Shakespeares Imogine when opening her husbands letter  is made to say   Good wax thy leave Blessed be  Yon Bees that make these locks of counsel  and in the next century Fuller thus speaks of wax and its uses   This is the cask where honey is the liquor and being yellow  by nature is by art made white red and green which I take to  be the dearest colour especially appendent on parchment  Wax is good by day and night useful in law instruments to  seal and in physic The ground and foundation of all cerecloth  cera is also made of wax  Much more extensive and important than any of the fore  going but as less palpable even more disregarded are the  general uses of Insect existence Disease engendered of cor  ruption in substances animal and vegetable would defy all the  precautions of man unless these were aided by scavenger  Insects those myriads of Mies and carrion Beetles whose per  petual labours even in our tempered climate but infinitely more  so in warmer regions are essentially important to cleanliness  and health  A use of this nature and one performed perhaps to an  extent we little think of is the purification of standing waters  by the innumerable Insects which usually inhabit them We  have witnessed ample proof of the efficacy in this respect of  Gnat Larvae when keeping them to observe their transfor  mations Water swarming with these Lives of Buoyancy  has been perfectly sweet at the end of ten days while that  from the same pond containing only vegetable matter has  become speedily offensive  As commissioned agents ministering more or less directly to  our various pleasures we owe no slender obligation to Insects  Besides imparting variety and animation to summer scenes  by their ceaseless hum and endless diversity of form they  assist in the support of most of our favourite songsters of the  garden and the grove The red breast the wren and the tit  mouse live almost wholly upon worms and Insects which also  serve the blackbird and the thrush as meat before a fruit  desert To the delicacies of our tables they are also indirect  contributors Our game grows plump on the nurselings of  the Anthill the larvae and pupae improperly called eggs  Our fish fatten on the My in all its varieties and even  our poultry thrive all the better especially ducks and turkeys  for a sprinkle of Caterpillars Plies and Spiders as a relish  with their ordinary food  The aid afforded by Bees and other Insects in the propagation  of various flowers by conveying on their hairy backs the pollen  of one to the stigma of another is no secret to the botanist  and gardeners know something and ought to know still  more of the value of certain tribes of insecteating Insects as  checks upon the vegetable ravagers of their own race Both  the gardener and the hopgrower would find it worth their  while to keep up standing armies of Ladybird redcoats against  the Aphis legions which ravage their plantations and parterres  Lacewinged Plies and Syrphus Grubs are worthy of all en  couragement for the same important service and as remarked  by Southey the more Spiders in the stable the less would horses  suffer from the Plies  But neither from the above nor from any other known benefits  are we to measure the usefulness of the Insect creation as con  nected with other orders of being A remark of Curtis on the  apparently superfluous productions of the vegetable world is  equally applicable to those of the Insect kingdom Speaking  of a certain watergrass air a aquatica very common in boggy  meadows and found to be entirely useless for cattle he justly  observes that we ought not to look on this or any other plant  as made in vain because we do not immediately see its purpose  This grass is plucked by various waterfowls and no less than  five species of Mies musci were produced from a few handfuls  of its seeds which when I gathered it were doubtless in the  chrysalis state How little do we know of natures productions  We have already pointed out the utility of Insects in affording  ever new subjects of interesting inquiry And let those who  will look scorn upon our pursuit we repeat that few when  followed aright are more adapted to improve the mind In its  minute details it is well calculated to give habits of observation  and of accurate perception while as a whole the study of this  department of nature so intimately linked with others above  and below it has no common tendency to lift our thoughts ta  the great Creative Source of being to Him who has not  designed the minutest part of the minutest object without  reference to some use connected with the whole  ON APHIDES   A feeble race yet oft   The sacred sous of vengeance  But what sort of insects are Aphides demands perhaps a  reader who is no entomologist In plain English they are  Plantlice But what are Plant lice is the question put by  another who is no observer of nature Let us inquire in reply  what is a Wasp a Spider a Butterfly Did you ever happen to  notice one of those remarkable creatures W ell then we can  tell you that for every single Butterfly you have seen a  thousand Aphides and for every score of Wasps a million of  Plantlice Not only have yon seen bnt scarcely a summers  day has passed without your having destroyed them by dozens  Your foot annihilates them on the grass They die by your  hand on almost every flowersprig you gather and with every  vase of sweets which you place upon your table you consign  them without a thought to the bitter death of famine so  important and fatal is the influence which you and everybody  are continually exercising over the destinies of Aphis existence  little as you would seem to known about it although perhaps  you may be better acquainted with it by sight than you are by  name However blind from indifference to the minutiae of  nature have you not often when about to pluck a rosebud or  a piece of honeysuckle almost started to find the one a green  mass of moving life the other with leaves green no longer  but turned black to the eye and clammy to the touch You  perceive in short that what most people call a blight but  what naturalists only look on as a swarm of Aphides has been  busy with your flowers before you and turn away disgusted  to seek for less contaminated sweets  To keep however to our blight Insects call them what we  will be it here noted that the popular belief concerning their  origin has of late years been assigned a place among popular  errors That  When the wind is in the east  Tis neither good for man nor beast  is an ancient saw too well supported by the modern instances  of cough lumbago catarrh and rheumatism to be disputed  but in common with other things and persons of ill repute the  treacherous East would seem to bear the burthen of other sins  besides its own In addition to the above acknowledged evils   that Death in the air which would seem to be really  borne upon the wings of this malicious wind it is popularly  accused of bringing Life in the air but in a form which to  the vegetable creation is quite as fully fraught with destruction  as are to the animal its poisonous invisible arrows Besides  these and almost as impalpable myriads upon myriads of Insect  eggs or as some have it minute Insects are supposed to float  in the blighting atmosphere whence falling in showers on the  verdant face of nature they soon become visible in the shape of  our Aphis marauders or of leaf destroying caterpillars With  the fact however that Insect eggs are heavier than water  the notion of their floating through the air is not quite accor  dant or granting that they float from whence they originally  came is still the posing question a question best answered  perhaps by the plain and probable inference adopted by  Bennie and other naturalists that neither our blight Insects  nor their eggs have ever been aerial travellers but that from  innumerable minute eggs laid in autumn on the trunks or  branches of tree or shrub or upon some adjacent objects they  emerge almost simultaneously in spring Their amazing  number is sufficiently accounted for when we find by the cal  dilations of Reaumur that one Aphis may be the progenitor of  5904900000 descendants  The above which is the least difficult method certainly of  accounting for the presence of these Insect swarms would  seem also the most easily ascertainable yet the popular theory  of their being windconveyed has had its advocates among the  learned as well as its believers among the simple Nor indeed is  it very unusual for learned theorists to go far and wide and  high and deep in search of truths which in nine cases out of ten  they could scarcely have failed to discover by looking a little  more closely into the things on which they are pleased to  speculate  Now suppose we do this with the leafbuds of a rosebush  which early as it is we shall find already occupied by Aphis  tenantry such as have recently emerged from minute black  eggs deposited last autumn on the branches These are all  green of small size and without wings but later towards the  end of May a single flowerbud is likely to present us with  two or three kinds of these infesting sapsuckers differing in  size form and colour We shall therefore venture to anti  cipate the appearance of summer rosebuds and with them  that of the numerous descendants which are sure by that  time to have sprung from the race of Aphides now in being  not as these from the egg but after the manner of viviparous  animals This may seem a strange anomaly but there are  things to tell of Aphis economy stranger still  Now for our blightdisfigured rosebud which instead of  encasing green and bursting red displays nothing but a  moving multitude a conglomeration of Plantlice which  taken en masse is certainly no pleasing object Por all this  the little winged animal which as being more conspicuous  than the bulk of its fellows we shall first single from among  them is no inelegant specimen of natures Lilliputian work  manship It has a plump shining body of deep bright green  spotted at the sides with black long slender legs inclining  to reddish and like a bamboo reed marked at every joint  with black or darkest brown The shoulders head and long  jointed antennae are also chiefly black as well as two diverging  spikelets proceeding from the back while a pair of ample  wings much longer than the body rise erectly over it  This pretty insect and those which resemble it look like the  aristocracy of the wingless multitude by which they are sur  rounded and though we cannot pronounce their pinions to  be borne as badges of rank we believe that no reason has as  yet been assigned with certainty for the partial distribution  among Aphis tribes of the organs of flight which do not with  them as with various other insects serve as a distinction  either of age or sex A cause indeed which if true is most  curious and interesting has been assigned for this difference  of endowment among Aphides It has been supposed to  depend on the quality and quantity of nourishment within  their reach those which in this respect are well provided on  juicy luxuriant shoot being wingless while those on a dry a  and sapless branch are gifted with pinions to waft them in  search of better provender Supposing this idea to be correct  we have herein another striking instance added to the many  of providing care in that Power which careth for all and  adapts for all the means to the exigence  If we examine now the wingless multitude the canaille  of our rosebud we shall find that the individuals which  compose it have shorter legs and flatter bodies than their  winged superiors and that they differ exceedingly in size from  one another Por the most part their colour is a light green  though some are of a pale red but however else they differ  all both winged and wingless are furnished with one remark  able appendage common to the whole Aphis tribe to whatever  plant peculiar from the lordly oak to the lowly briar This  is the haustellum trunk or suckingpipe appended beaklike  to the head and which consisting of a tube both pointed and  perforated serves the double purpose of piercing the leaf and  sucking its juices  The pipes of these our little ravagers of the rose are but as  beaklets compared with those of their brethren of the oak  yet they form we can tell you no despicable instruments of  destruction employed as they are by thousands in simultaneous  and incessant labour And this considered who can wonder at  the marvellous and unsightly changes the spoil and havoc  which these peaceful armies carry in their wake The leaf  whose surface when they take it in possession resembles a  smooth green plain or divided by intersecting veins a country  of verdant fields is presently warped and converted into barren  hills and arid dales by the extraction of its fertilizing sap  while the tender bud and vigorous shoot though differently  are equally distorted and desiccated by their operations   Tor the most part these Insect marauders living to eat and  to be eaten seem to have no other business no thought or  care except on the matter of supplies and take no trouble to  conceal their ranks from the observation of their numerous  enemies or even to shelter themselves from the stormy wind  and rain which sweep them off by millions That wellknown  blighter of the hopes of hopgrowers in common parlance  yclept the My albeit generally wingless is an open ravager  of this description feeding sometimes on the upper sometimes  on the under side of the leaf But to this general rule there  are numerous exceptions and a familiar instance of their  defensive works is to be met with on every Aphisblighted  currant bush Take one of those leaves so often seen bloated  by raised blisterspots of brownish red examine their answering  concavities beneath and within these snug recesses you will  intrude on as many social groups of Aphides using their pipes  in each separate divan  Some other species common on poplar lime c are pro  vided with places of assembly habitation and concealment of  a far more comfortable and complete description but of these  we shall have more to say byandby when speaking of Gall  insects among which they have been assigned a place  We have thus far been only looking at onr Lilliputian hosts  with reference to ourselves and to vegetables in their capacity of  destroyers but as connected with their own world of Insects  they play a more passive but very important part as providers  or furnishers of food a portion of which they may also be con  sidered as producing  Most of us have heard of honeydew and know probably  that it is a sweet clammy substance found on the leaves of  various trees and plants especially on the oak the vine the  hop and the honeysuckle As to the real nature of this sweet  poison to the plant opinions differ and some perhaps even of  the learned moderns know as much about it as did the learned  ancient Pliny who doubted whether to call it sweat of the  heavens saliva of the stars or a liquid produced by  purgation of the air Careful observation seems however  to have pretty clearly ascertained that this honeydew like the  honey of Bees of vegetable origin is extracted with the sap  secreted and then thrown out by the Aphides in a state of the  greatest purity Besides the profusion of sweets which they  scatter around them like sugarplums at a carnival they always  keep a good supply within the green jars of their bodies By  the lavish distribution of these saccharine riches our little  Aphides make for themselves it is true a few interested  friends while on the other hand they owe to their possession  a host of devouring enemies  Reaumur designates the race of Aphides as the very corn  sown for the use of their more powerful insect brethren but  as animate creatures as well as gregarious greenleaf grazers  they have been considered with more propriety as the oves and  loves the flocks and herds of those which seem permitted to  hold them in possession Foremost among these Aphidophagi  or feeders upon Aphides we must rank the Ladybird Inno  cent as she looks that misnamed Vache a Lieu instead of  grazing innocently on the fruits of the earth loves nothing  better than to stuff under her scarlet mantle carcass after  carcass of Aphis lamb or mutton Even before she puts on  the scarlet and while yet in her own tender youth she is if  possible still more given to inordinate excess in the same  living article of animal food In other words while she is yet  a flat lead coloured sixlegged Grub instead of a rotund  crimsonpainted beetle she fairly fattens upon Aphides  Wherever these abound whether in hopground beanfield or  rosary there are Ladybirds gathered together and in all such  places they do the cultivator more good by their united appetites  than he can do for himself by his utmost precautions against  the Ely Numerous are the winged tribes called Aphidi  vorous or Aphiseating Elies because in their first stage of  being and sometimes in their last it is with them at every  meal not toujours perdrix but toujour s puceron  Amongst this devouring crew is the beautiful goldeyed lace  winged Fly which while yet in its crawling minority roams  through its appropriated leafy fold making tremendous use of  its crooked and perforated tusks first to slaughter then to suck  in the sweet juices of its victims at the rate of two a minute  Of less ferocious aspect but not a whit less insatiate than the  above is the green or particoloured Grub of a Beelike Ely  called a Syrphus of which many varieties are common in  gardens darting from flower to flower or hovering hawklike  over them Applied closely to a leaf or stalk by their  hinder extremities which are broad and flattish the Grubs of  these Syrphi may in June be noticed by dozens on the  stretch for the Aphis prey by which they are usually sur  rounded In this attitude they much resemble Leeches and  like leeches are in greedy search of blood the honied blood  of their victims  The above are the most rapacious of those comparatively  bulky devourers that to the extensive benefit of vegetation  and of man appropriate Aphis flocks by wholesale but the  Aphis individual atom as he is is by no means so insignifi  cant as to escape individual attack Even the Aphis is great  enough to have a parasite One a small black Ichneumon Ely  pierces the little green body of the unconscious Sapsucker and  deposits therein a tiny egg from which springs a tiny worm  that feasts and grows to maturity within its living receptacle  We have also often noticed the Aphis of the plumtree and  others fastened on by another infester of a parasitic nature in  the shape of a bright scarlet Mite not to be detached from  the body of its victim so long as life remains  But enough of Aphis enemies and now for the friends  which as well as foes they owe to the possession of their  honied treasures We have hitherto seen our flocks of the leaf  appropriated as sheep for the slaughter but those to whom  this fact however new will appear nothing strange may smile  incredulous on being told that as milch kine they are  sometimes kept tended and even reared by insect proprietors  for the sake of the sweet milk the honeydew which  they afford In our history of Bairweather Friends  we have already adverted to this patriarchal practice and  have therefore only to remind our readers that it is exercised  among various tribes of economic Ants though the Yellow  Ant has been termed the greatest cowkeeper of them  all It may require some time and trouble to become  witnesses ourselves of this marvellous instance of Formic  economy already proved beyond a doubt by the observations  of others but everybody has an opportunity of noticing  that Ants and Aphides are held together by some bond of  union They are continually seen in company and a little  further scrutiny presently discovers that the Ants are the  followers of the Aphides and entirely for what they can get  out of them Last August the stalks of an elder shrub in  our garden were absolutely blackened at the joints by Elder  Aphides and among these were continually to be seen a multi  tude of brown Ants demanding and receiving their supplies of  honeydew as emitted by the former  Besides the general analogy which exists between flocks of  Aphides and flocks of sheep in their gentle nature their gre  garious habits and in their being appropriated so extensively  for food there may be noticed in several instances a curious  kind of external rapport between them and the woollycoated  quadrupeds  There are some species of Aphides which are actually  clothed with a sort of wool or down One of them a four  winged Gall insect is found in June or July on the poplar  or may be often noticed at that season flying or floating  about in the air like a small white tuft of down Another  hoarycoated Aphis is unfortunately too well known to apple  growers under the name of White Blight The branches of  those trees selected for their pasture by our insect sheep are  soon invested by their numerous fleeces with a hoary aspect  appearing in spring and increasing through the summer  These fleeces are found upon examination to consist of a woolly  or cottony substance exuded from the insects bodies and  under its cover a multitude of these wingless Aphides are  incessantly at work with their destructive pipes sucking up  the sweet vital juices of the tree the old and the young being  thus employed together parents with their offspring to whom  this soft down serves the purpose of a cradle This lani  gerous vesture says Mr Knapp serves not only to convey  the creature from tree to tree throughout the orchard but  also in autumn winds becomes a vehicle for its destruction  many being borne away by their fleeces to perish far from their  parent stem Those which are left to abide the winter are  protected from its rigour partly by torpor and partly by a short  downy cloathing with which their bodies are invested under  the long one before described  Let us conclude our Article on Aphides with a few  distinguishing traits of their personal character and peculiar  physiology Character say you what scope for the display  of character in a little denizen whose world is comprised in a  single leaf or fiowerbud who is born but to eat and be  eaten Why it is with reference to the latter point that  very law of its existence which condemns it to be eaten that  our little Aphis exhibits a notable pattern in the virtue of  passive endurance and submission to the decrees of fate  Never did Turk bend his neck to the bowstring or rush upon  the scimitar with more perfect composure and nonchalance  than does our lamb of the leaf submit itself to the murderous  jaws of its lionlike or wolflike destroyers seeming perfectly  at ease and enjoying life to the last bite or sup while its  merciless slaughterers are heaping up carcasses around One  of their devourers indeed the Grub or Larva before men  tioned of the lacewinged Ply seems to play the part of a  wolf in sheeps clothing dressing itself up in the skins of the  slain but as the composure of the Aphis flock appears equally  undisturbed where no such disguise is put on it would be  unfair to suppose they are deceived into philosophy But  perhaps say you they are not aware of the presence of their  enemies Possibly not but yet they seem to have the same  organs of perception as other victimized insects which under  the same circumstances generally testify alarm and make  vigorous efforts to escape  The Aphis has another singular habit springing apparently  out of the same sort of perception that it is right to die quietly  like a greatminded little Insect just as Caesar who to fall  like a great monarch of men covered his face with his mantle   or as the lion which to die like a great monarch of beasts  retires into some thicket or den obscure We have spoken  already of the Ichneumon the little Ply which deposits a  single egg in a single Aphis hereupon to use the words of  Kirby the body of the victim swells and becomes smooth  though still full of life Those thus pricked separate from  their companions and taJce their station on the under side of  the leaf After some days the Grub hatched from the en  closed egg pierces the body of the Aphis and attaches the  margin of the orifice to the leaf by silken threads Upon this  it dies becomes white and resembles a brilliant bead or pearl  Every Aphiscovered roseleaf will furnish instances of what  is here described  There is yet another peculiarity which distinguishes the  Aphis from perhaps every other creature in the animal world  a physical enigma about which the divers into natures secrets  long puzzled their heads in vain until at last a clever patient  Frenchman hit upon what is considered its solution  Now when you see in spring or early summer a group of  Aphides a group of leaves covered with them or even a group  of trees which they have made their own it is certain at least  we can answer for the fact on good authority that in all the  multitude on which you cast your eye you will be looking  on none but Aphides whether winged or wingless of the  feminine gender Where then are the lords of these nume  rous ladies is a question you very naturally ask Why they  are not in existence and never have been The ladies may have  had fathers they have children to be seen like chickens busy  with their bills around them but with perfect truth and with  out a shadow of imputation on their spotless characters they  neither have nor ever have had husbands  Now suppose all the elderly matrons presiding over this  assembly to have gone the way of all flesh of Aphides and  that you are looking on a similar company composed of their  immediate descendants Still presenting the same remarkable  deficiency if deficiency it be of masculine members this  assemblage will consist entirely of the daughters and grand  daughters of the defunct and as not one of these though each  in her turn is pretty sure to become a mother can ever boast  a son so it goes on even to the tenth generation  Suppose lastly that in September or October you fall in  with another company of Aphides regaling on an autumn rose  branch If so prithee pluck it and let us scrutinize together  the assembly by which it is occupied for being probably the  tenth or last generation it is likely to contain at length some  of the lords of this curious creation Aye now we have them  here amongst the green petticoats are some individuals  distinguished by surtouts some of bright yellow some of  orange some of soberbrown colours worn in accordance it  is said with their youth middle or advanced age All these   Mercuries wear wings but even their pinions assume  with equal propriety a corresponding hue deepening from  white to transparent black according to the period of their  wearers standing Might not our evergreen beaux for  evergreen belles are privileged even by example of feminine  Aphides take a hint from these sensibly clad seniors of the  sapsucking race Perhaps however it is scarcely fair to  quote as patterns in anything such outoftheway creatures as  those we are describing strangest of animals but especially  in the paternal character The Insect race is celebrated for  having numerous progenies but these our patriarchal pucerons  are far superior to all the rest They are no fathers of  ten in family nor of twenty nor of twenty times twenty but  marvel of multiplication each of these sires can boast of  being the actual parent of ten generations all save the last  made up of daughters You who doubt whether this is true  or may desire to know how it has been proved we refer to  the scientific pages of Bonnet Trembley Bichardson Bennie  and a host of other unimpeachable authorities  We have to subjoin an important if authentic addendum  to the history of Aphis life  From observations made in the summer of 1846 it was  concluded by Mr Alfred Smee that the originating cause of  the potatoblight was the preternatural abundance of the  Aphis vastator By this Insect is occasioned says he the  first injury to the vegetables it attacks and it is thus the  cause of the disease from which the subsequent changes take  place The Vastator attacks many plants and kills whatever it  attacks It destroys the potato spinach turnip carrot  beetroot clover and it will even live upon wheat  To causes merely atmospheric such as absence of summer  sunshine and the prevalence of rain have been likewise ascribed  by most competent authorities the potato murrain It has  also been assigned to the presence of Fungi in the tubers t  but if indeed the Aphis vastator may be regarded as the root  of the evil more properly the evil of the root it confers  assuredly on its tiny tribe a grave importance which none can  be inclined to dispute when they cast a backward glance on  the face of Europe dwelling chiefly on that island blot  unhappy Ireland  The feeble race 99 of Aphides is in truth not to be despised  as an agent of disfigurement and devastation though their  injurious powers have probably been overrated Even in  poetic justice it is hardly perhaps admissible to call them  sons of vengeance after having seen in their appointed  destroyers the sons of mercy 99 sent for counteraction of their  mischief We would rather at all events in bidding farewell  to these myriads of the leaf contemplate them under a more  agreeable aspect as recipients namely of life and enjoyment  living only so far as concerns their insect brethren to imbibe  and to impart of sweets  INSECT SENSES   In the nice Bee what sense so subtly true  From poisonous herbs extracts the healing dew  This lovely springtime has brought round a grand festival  a feast of the Senses which seated as sisters at natures  bounteous board are now being specially regaled each with a   dainty dish peculiarly suited to her liking  The Sight now banquets on the vernal landscape as day by  day the trees put on fresh tints of beauty and as   Daisies pied and violets blue  And cuckoobuds of yellow hue  Do paint the meadows with delight  Not less richly fares the Hearing as it now drinks in the  melodies of spring the music of happy birds the hum of  newborn insects the whisper of opening leaves the morning  hymn of nature fresh awakened  Spring odours rising meanwhile from foliage from flower  and from field regale as gloriously the sense of Smell And  Taste fails not to come in also for her share of new  delights yet is she perhaps of all her sister senses among  whom she is the least refined the one least specially treated in  this pure and delicate banquet of the spring The pleasures  of taste accordingly are now less actual than anticipative  pleasures enjoyed through the promise of advancing vegetable  and of budding or flowering fruittree  Again not with one simple viand but with a delicious  compound the Feeling which we shall venture to call a sense  general derived from all others quivers with new delight as  spring influences send the blood dancing through our frames  like the rivulets so lately frostbound careering through the  flowery meadows  Such is the grand springfestival of the senses and shall we  towards whom these sisters five or seven are employed to  do the honours of such a banquet sit down or rise from the  repast without a grace rendered to the Great Provider of   Dr Virey divides the senses into three intellectual viz sight hearing and  the internal sense of thought and four physical viz touch love taste and  smell  the feast Do not these very senses each lead us directly to  the payment of such befitting homage  The eye is it not the crystal window through which mind  looks out and communicates with nature and shall intellect  the eye of the spirit be content to rest on natural things  without rising by aid of its corresponding organ to things  divine Shall the ear bring us delight in the sweet har  monies of spring without our hearing amidst and above them  all an invocation to unite with heart and voice in the chants  of universal praise Shall we inhale the pleasant fragrance  dispersed by perfumes of the earth the incense of the groves  Gods first temples and not offer therewith the more  acceptable incense of a grateful spirit Shall the feeling of  this reviving springtime pervade our frames and even lightly  touch upon our hearts yet there stop short short of that  inmost sanctuary where within our heart of hearts if a  fitting tabernacle the Source of Life himself does not disdain  to dwell  With ourselves then this feast of the senses should be but  an antepast to a banquet more refined an avenue to higher  delights a fleeting image of pleasures which abide for ever  but looking around us we see at the same bounteous table  myriads of fellowpartakers with whom the pleasures of sense  would seem to constitute the sum total of their happiness  That among these insects are endowed with senses like  our own is now almost universally acknowledged and that  they may possess besides other resembling gifts of which we  can form no precise notion has been not improbably conjec  tured though doubt still attaches to the seat of some of  the organs by which they are exercised This is by no means  the case however with the instruments of sight which in  most insects are sufficiently obvious A child can point to the  eyes of a Ply or Bee as readily as to those of an ox and though  the child judges only by analogy of position and of form  dissection and experiment have alike induced the natural  philosopher to assign the name and office of eyes to those large  brown reticulated bodies which in the said Ply or Dronebee  are seen occupying the greater portion of the head Besides  these the same insects and most others are provided with  three smaller eyes termed ocelli which resemble shining  points and which are usually placed in the form of a triangle  above and between the larger pair  We find therefore that both as respects the size and number  of their visual organs Insects have greatly the advantage over  all other animals at present known amongst which there is  not one which can boast of five much less of eight eyes or of  twenty the complement bestowed upon the Spider and the  Centipede  We are by no means however to set it down for granted  on this account that every insect is a little eagle or Argus in  power and quickness of vision for their many eyes would  sometimes seem to serve them like the hares many friends  or like the many servants by whom we are often worse waited  on than by a few All that we can pronounce on with any  certainty is this that the gift of sight as well as of every other  sense conferred on insects is adequate to the exigences of their  nature for the rest the closest observers are much at variance  The Bee for instance which is supposed by Huber to possess  the faculty of seeing in the greatest perfection and chiefly by  means of this surpassing vision to be enabled to retrace its way  to its own hive is yet denominated by one poet t a dimeved  creature while another with reference to the eye writes of   Its orb so full its vision so confined  Poets it is true are not always the best authorities on points  of Natural History on which often overstepping the fair bounds  of poetic licence they are apt enough to mislead rather than  instruct Yet as regards this matter of the sight of Bees the  poets above cited are in no want of scientific opinions at least as  many on their side as on the opposite Wildman and Drs Bevan  and Evans all consider the sight of the Bee as somewhat imper  fect and more adapted for distant vision than for near enabling  them indeed to fly straight homewards through the trackless  air as if in full view of their hive but then permitting them to  run their heads against it seeming to feel their way to the  door with their antennae as if totally blind And yet  again according to Beaumur they ought to be no such  gropers because as his experiments would seem to prove  their eyes are of two kinds the two large ones being adapted  for distant and horizontal vision the three smaller at the top  of the head serving for that which is near and upwards  One of the most curious peculiarities observable in insect  eyes in those of them at least which are large and conspi  cuous is their compound construction Their cornea or  outer coat instead of being smooth is numerously divided  into what are called facets each of itself a little perfect eye  Of these a Butterfly has been assigned in each compound  organ 17335 a Dragon My 12544 a House My 7000  Possessing such a multitude of eyes or eyelets under one it  might seem that of every single object Insects must be pre  sented with a multitude of images This however we have  no reason to suppose inasmuch as we with our pair of single  eyes are not in the habit of seeing double and as according  to Muller each individual facet of an insect s compound eye  can survey but a small space in the field of vision each only  contributes to the perception of all things within it Each  separate one does not at the same time see all such objects  but only conveys its impression to the nervous filament with  which it is supplied and the latter being united in the great  optic nerve a common and distinct image is ultimately  produced  The compound eye of an insect would not seem therefore   So it is said by Dr Hooke and others but Swammerdam did not consider  as such the numerous hexagonal divisions in the eye of the Bee  to multiply objects to its natural possessor but it has never  theless been converted by the ingenuity of man into a curious  optical instrument of multiplying power Through the eye  of a Elea so placed as to command objects with the assis  tance of a microscope a single soldier has appeared as at once  diminished and multiplied into a Lilliputian army while the  flame of a single candle has been made in like manner to  represent a grand miniature illumination  The eyes of Butterflies present on examination the ap  pearance of a multiplying glass of this description the facets  bearing a resemblance to a cut diamond The ocelli or simple  eyes appearing as little points of crystal seated mostly above  the compound pair and usually three in number are supposed  to be intended generally as well as in Bees for the purposes  of near vision such as examination of leaves flowers c  serving for food or presenting it in the smaller fry by  which they are frequented  The position of Insect eyes is in several cases worthy of  especial notice affording in their variations from the common  type so many remarkable instances of that kind creative care  which adapts each organ with exquisite nicety to its intended  use  In that little shining Beetle called the Whirlwig which may  be seen every summers day whirling about the surface of  smooth waters each of the eyes is as it were divided into  an upper and a lower half the one for looking up into the  air the other for looking down into the water Those of the  Harvest Spider are seated at the top of the head of all posi  tions the most convenient for a creature living chiefly among  grass or stubble In a common Spider the eyes which are  all of the simple kind are no less excellently calculated by their  varied positions front top and sideways for commanding  that range of sight so useful especially in the hunting tribes  for perception and seizure of their prey  While on the subject of Insect eyes we must notice one  more peculiarity which distinguishes them in appearance from  all others and this is their immovability with in most cases  seeming opacity The want of movement is as we have just  seen sufficiently made up to their possessors by means of  number and position but this characteristic of deathlike still  ness and deadness in that organ which in nearly all other  animals is most expressive of life and intelligence contributes  we fancy almost as much as their diminutive size to make us  underrate the intellectual powers of Insects and leads us to  refer the whole instead of a part only of their ways of wisdom  to the compulsory power of instinct This is but natural  Look at an Insect as we may it never appears to look at us  the little glazed windows whence mind peeps out and commu  nicates with other minds seem in it as it were darkened  Yet this after all is only an appearance and should not there  fore be allowed to influence our judgment as to the position  assignable to Insects in the intellectual scale of being To  this general character of dull opacity thus observable in the  eyes of Insects there are however a few exceptions though  these are none of the most pleasing sort  There is the eye as a larva of that Bugdestroyer albeit a  Bug himself the Reduvius joersonatus with its dark pupil and  bloodred iris illumined with a glare of fierceness And some  what resembling in colour and expression is that of the Scorpion  from the gaze of which if of augmented size we should recoil  with horror The golden eyes of the beautiful lacewinged  Ely the eyes painted in stripes of many of the GadFlies  the flowerlike eyes of another Insect an exotic are all beau  tiful varieties of the optic organ though in point of expression  they may rank no higher than the less ornamented instruments  furnished commonly to the Insect crew  Many species of nocturnal Moths sail through the dark  ocean of night carrying lanterns at their prows in the shape  of eyes which black or brown by day become glowing sparks  in the gloom These perhaps are the only Insect eyes which  may be strictly called luminous but those of the fierce Dragon  Fly and of its gentle prey the white Garden Butterfly display  in daylight a more than ordinary share of crystalline trans  parency  Of eyelids Insects we believe are wholly destitute but they  are often amply provided with eyelashes or with what stands  them in the stead of those protective appendages Their pur  pose in defending the concave surface of the eye from dust and  various injuries is supplied by an assemblage of hairs with  which the cornea of Bees and many other Insects is overspread  the hairs which spring from its reticulate divisions having been  likened when viewed microscopically to a forest of firtrees  Linnseus and other naturalists have doubted whether Insects  hear although from common observation as well as from  general evidence their hearing would seem as little a matter of  question as their sight Their oral organs would appear less de  cidedly ascertained It is however usual to suppose that these  are none other than the antennse those slender flexible  appendages capable of being directed like the long movable  ears of an ass or a hare to all quarters for the conveyance of  sound Their projection and position in front of the head  favours by analogy the idea of their being adapted to the same  use as the ears of other animals and the infinite variety of form  by which those of the latter are distinguished has been fairly  urged against objections on the score of their unusual shape  Observations such as may be multiplied daily by ourselves  have also tended to confirm the above inference founded on  analogy Kirby adduces among other examples the common  use made by those prying parasites the Ichneumon Plies of  their long flexible evermoving antennse which they are  accustomed to plunge into the deep nestholes of the solitary  Bees whose grubs are converted into living receptacles for  their eggs Some indeed have conjectured that it may be  merely with intent to explore the nest and feel for her infant  victim that the insidious Ichneumon thus inserts her antennse  but since the holes are always so deep as to prevent the possibility  of her thus reaching the grubs as they live at the bottom it  seems much more probable according to the opinion of  the writer in question that she rather employs them as ears to  detect any sound of eating or moving from the occupant of the  nest  Yarious other Insects have been observed to direct their  antennse towards the quarter whence noise proceeds Among  these the longhorned or longeared tribe of Grasshoppers and  Crickets are as Rennie remarks especially alive to the sounds  which usually give notice of the approach of friend or foe  such as the rustle of a leaf or the footfall of an Insect brother  The same naturalist observed a green Grasshopper incline an  attentive ear to the rustle of a piece of paper under the table  where it was placed bending its long antennse or one of them  in the direction of the sound  It would seem then scarcely to be doubted that Insects hear  with their antennse and that with the same instrument they  also touch and feel appears almost as evident Tor it is in the  exercise of touch and feeling applied to purposes of social inter  course that these flexible appendages are constantly employed  by Ants and Bees which are said on this account to converse  by antennal language Nor does this supposed use of them at  all militate against that of the same organs for conveyance of  sound These however are all matters of inquiry on which a  degree of doubt is still existing quite sufficient to invite the  lovers of nature to make active and careful use of their own  senses judgmentguided in the investigation of those resem  bling gifts bestowed upon the Insect tribe The nature of  Insect voices with the instruments by which they are made  audible will form the subject of another Episode Suffice it  to notice here that a power of producing sounds would scarcely  have been given them unless a capability of mutual commu  nication through their medium had at the same time been  afforded By these and perhaps also by smaller voices to us  inaudible the passions of Insects are likewise no doubt ex  pressed and that their tones though entirely instrumental  are susceptible of alteration at least through fear is evidenced  by a common fact noticed alike by naturalists and poets  When a fly finds herself in the power of her Spiderfoe her   Muttering wing   And shriller sound declare extreme distress  a sound totally distinct from her usual buzz and elicited only  by that excess of terror or peculiar form of it which even  capture by the hand or in a honeypot is insufficient to call  forth The shrill scold of a Humble Bee when imprisoned in  the hand gives audible evidence no less indisputable of mingled  fear and anger  Insects are preeminently gifted with the sense of smell No  flock of vultures can be directed more unerringly to their re  volting prey by scenting its odours from afar than are certain  Insects such as Dungflies and Carrion Beetles whose corres  ponding office is to assist in ridding the earth of offensive  objects That the sense of smell alone directs the Blowfly in  the deposition of her eggs has been fully proved by the fact of  her having through misguided instinct been found to lay them  on silk wherewith tainted meat has been covered or upon the  illodoured Stapelias a tribe of hothouse plants which in scent  greatly resemble it  The Butterfly and Bee with other winged collectors whose  more agreeable business lies among sweet odours are equally  quick scented in their detection at distances almost incredible  Erom a prodigious height not less it has been estimated  than sixteen or twenty feet the former lights down upon its  favourite flower while the latter wings its way for miles in the  exact direction of flowery fields and thymy downs from which  scented breezes bring them invitation Even when at hand  it is the odour of flowers rather than their appearance by which  both Bees and Butterflies would seem to be enticed for it was  found by M Huber that four Bees and a Butterfly were  speedily assembled round some honey which he had placed for  experiment in a window concealed by shutters only sufficiently  open to admit their passage Availing themselves of this  liking for sweets and perception of their distant and invisible  presence moth collectors are in the habit of anointing the  trunks of trees with honey or thick syrup by which means  they attract and capture not a few varieties  The perception of Insects with regard to odours is farther  evidenced bj the peculiar scents which several of them are  known to emit and the purposes to which their emission is in  some instances applied In the case for example of the Ant  so well known to be redolent of Formic acid the perfume left as  it travels on its line of march has been ascertained to serve  as a guiding clue to its comrades in the rear  Though thus generally admitted to be what the Italians  would call most excellent Nasuti Insects still puzzle us as to  what exact part of their enigmatical frames may be con  sidered an olfactory organ This is a point on which natu  ralists of the highest credit have been so much at issue that  when we read the opinions of each and the experimental  evidence adduced by each in support of his own we seem as if  we could scarcely arrive between them at any nearer conclusion  than that Insects must be all nose  By Kirby and Spence they are invested indeed with the nasal  appendage corresponding in position if not always in shape  with the conspicuous proboscis of a man a monkey and the  other Mammalia Huber also opined that their organ of smell  is seated in the head and near the mouth at all events in the  case of the Bee and in proof of his position he tells us that  having dipped a fine pencil in oil of turpentine he approached  it carefully to every part of a Bees head but without causing  the least apparent sensation until approximated to that in  question when the Insect starting suddenly from the honey  on which it was regaling beat its wings with violence and  would have flown off but for a removal of the offence On  repetition of the experiment the same effect ensued the angry  Bee fanning itself with its wings as if to blow away the un  welcome odour  Bor all this neither arguments nor facts are wanting to  make it seem probable that insects in general are desti  tute of noses or at least of the noses proper usually recog  nised as such The following is a plausible reason on this side  of the question Smelling and breathing as every one knows  by his own inspiration are faculties very intimately connected  it would hardly seem indeed that the former could be carried  on without the latter Now insects it is well known do not  breathe through the head at all but usually through a row of  pipes running along each side of the trunk termed spiracles  or breathing tubes of which the mouths are clearly dis  coverable in grubs and caterpillars To these spiracles then  as organs of breathing has been assigned also the office of  smell and though this doctrine and the above may appear at  first sight totally at variance perhaps the truth when clearly  ascertained may nearly reconcile their difference inasmuch as  the last or upper pair of spiracles though not seated in the  head approach it very closely The spiracles in a Bees neck  are said to be placed at the origin of the tongue  No one can observe and consider the works of Insects  without feeling pretty well assured that their sense of touch  be it seated where it may is exceedingly acute and delicate  and that though they build and weave without the help  of hands they must be provided with some handy instruments  or organs which to them sufficiently supply the place of that  most admirable piece of Divine mechanism  The feet of our insect artificers curiously jointed and often  palmed seem to partake indeed of the power and to perform  in some measure the office of our hands but in aid of the  feet the antennae and the palpi fourjointed bodies near the  mouth popularly termed feelers are also for ever at work to  try touch and examine  The wings are also ranked by Eennie as organs of touch  and as of no mean importance in the guidance of flight their  surface being furnished with nerves adapted to that purpose  He considers it therefore probable that Bees may be enabled  to return so unerringly to their hives in part at least through  the varied impressions of air upon their wings  The susceptibility evinced by Insects to atmospheric changes  and their prescience in consequence with regard to weather  is evident to all who are accustomed to observe them  When says Kirby a tempest is approaching they are  most abundant and many species may then be taken which  are not at other times to be met with but before the storm  comes on all disappear This high sensitivity to electric  changes has been attributed to the antennae and to the hairs  with which the bodies of many insects are thickly covered  We come now in the last case to the important faculty  of taste with which Insects of all classes and in every  region of the earth whether of propensities herbivorous  or carnivorous are found to be no less exquisitely gifted  Caterpillars are according to their kind either general or par  ticular feeders but even the former confine themselves to  particular classes of plants and among the latter are some so  exceedingly nice that cormorants as they are they would  sooner die of hunger than eat of leaves other than those which  furnish their accustomed food The caterpillars of those  beautiful little meadow Butterflies the Blues and the   Coppers which feed in their infancy on the grasses over  which they subsequently sport are wont we are told to  appropriate each for its own peculiar fare one of the various  species which are often intermingled in its native meadow  that most likely on which with instinctive foresight and dis  cernment the parent had deposited her egg Other cater  pillars found sometimes on the poplar sometimes on the  willow have been found to eat only the leaves of its tree of  birth and displaying a degree of discrimination yet greater we  have observed in those of the Lime Hawkmoth a decided pre  ference for leaves from the very tree whence they were taken  There are not wanting however amongst the liveried company  of leafeaters examples of appetite infinitely more accomodating  and among these the tufted plumed and gaudycoloured   Rennie Insect Miscellanies  caterpillars of the Yapourer we have found regaling indis  criminately upon willow pear oak and hawthorn  The accuracy of taste conferred upon the Bee has sometimes  been called in question on the ground that this indefatigable  gatherer is by no means particular as to the source from whence  she collects her honied stores giving in that process more  heed as it would seem to quantity than quality of material Yet  herein we may be sure Mistress Bee knows what she is about  just as well as her insect fellows She is most likely quite as  discriminate as they in culling for her own appetite and that  of her infant charges and both it is probable would come but  poorly off were her collections confined to those particular  flowers or districts which in our opinion supply honey of the  finest flavour though not of necessity that most grateful to  the palate of a Bee Our poet in writing of this Insect   Whose sense so subtly true  From poisnous herbs extracts the healing dew  may seem indeed at variance with certain matter of fact  relaters ancient and modern among them Xenophon and  Tournefort who tell us of poisonous honey collected from the  blossoms of the rhododendron roselaurel and yellow azalia  in Asia minor and also in Philadelphia from the flowers of  Kalmia latifolia  The honeys drawn from the above and other deleterious  plants are related to have produced most serious disorders  even to fatality both in man and beast but supposing such  evil consequences to fall on those only who feed on honey by  usurpation while the insect concoctors and rightful consumers  feed unharmed the latter we think are hardly open to the  imputation of an erring taste in the selection of ingredients  wherein though there may be death to others there is health  to them A few instances are however on record where the  Bees are said to have thus fatally drugged their sweet possets  even for themselves  Again both Bees and Butterflies are well known to be any  thing but what we call nice in the choice of water the dirty  puddle or even dunghill pool being to all appearances as  acceptable to their palates as the sparkling rivulet or pearly  dewdrop but then it is said that Bees only drink from these  fountains of impurity in early spring and as it is supposed  for the sake of the salts which they contain and which they  imbibe it is further concluded for a like purpose to that  wherewith we lovers in general of sweets are accustomed to  take springdoses of saline and other unpalatable flavours  The animalfeeders of the Insect race are no less choice than  the livers upon vegetable diet with respect to the selection of  their viands Foremost among these if ranked according  to the quality of food are the notorious Biters and Suckers  which regale on man and who cannot testify on experience  whether as sufferers or exempt that their discrimination is ex  ceedingly nice as to the flavour of vital fluids Some indeed  of the parasitic tribe which live by the juices of their fellow  insects such as Mites c are said sometimes to make prey  indifferently of Beetles Butterflies Ants and Meldcrickets  but this love of variety no more proves their want of taste or  power of discrimination than the gourmands liking for and  nice appreciation of the varied viands of his table  With regard to the particular organ whereby the taste of  Insects is chiefly exercised both analogy and observation point  to the mouth and tongue In Dragonflies Grasshoppers  and Crickets this little member is rounded and somewhat  resembling that of quadrupeds in others its shape is curiously  varied in the Wasp forked like a serpents in Sawflies  triply divided in Bees long and tubular in Bugs awlshaped  and sharp but in all as has been proved by recent discovery  the organs of taste and digestion are moistened and kept in  order by a due supply of saliva from pipes opening sometimes  into the mouth sometimes into the gullet and sometimes into  the stomach as may be most suitable for the purposes of  digestion and according to the greater or less solidity of food  Of the existence and one of the uses of this salivary supply  we are furnished with a common example in the proceedings of  a My in discussion in solution rather of a lump of sugar  by help of a solvent let down through the sucker which serves  afterwards to draw up the syrup We have seen the same  operation performed by the Gamma y and other Moths  We must here have done for the present with Insect senses  Our brief description of them has been to the eye but a sketch  copied chiefly from the laboured pictures of careful naturalists   to the ear it would read but as an imperfect echo of their  minute descriptions attractive indeed when verified by obser  vation but in the mere perusal smelling somewhat more of  the lamp of science than of the flowery sunny fields We have  but touched on what has been elaborately handled given a  taste only of what has furnished ample food for inquiry to  many minds greedy of knowledge which with all they have  devoured leave an exhaustless store behind but little as we  have laid before our readers on the subject of Insect senses  that little may have sufficed we hope as an incentive to the  at least occasional employment of their own upon the nature  and manifestations of those similar gifts bestowed upon the  tiniest Midge and wherein the Midge may be looked on as  equal to the man except inasmuch as the senses of the latter  are exercised as handmaids to observation and to thought  But are our senses and our reason worthily occupied in  scrutiny of the miniature organism of the tiny beings whose  endowments we have been considering P We think they are  There are miracles of minuteness as well as of magnitude and  in few things perhaps is the power of the Creator more admi  rably displayed than in the perfect senses of Insects considered  relatively to their size We can imagine a spark of life  enclosed in the body of a Mite because we are accustomed to  consider vitality as a thing independent of space therein  resembling its divine source but when we think of five seven  or more distinct senses each with its perfect curious often  complicated mechanic organ as existing in a creature no bigger  than a full stop or even invisible to our unassisted sight we  are led at once from the extreme of minuteness to the infinite  vastness of that Creative Power whose works can neither be  circumscribed by want of space nor lose one atom of impor  tance because for want of bulk they may be impalpable to our  limited perception  On the whole then it would appear that Insects can boast  of very rich endowments in the gifts of sense and ample in pro  portion would seem the amount of enjoyment which they are  permitted to derive from their exercise Our little denizens of  leaf and flower are in short most epicurean animals  Already is their feast begun on the succulent and tender pro  ducts of the spring but let us for a moment anticipate a  season more advanced let us wander together on some fine  morning of midsummer into the fragrant flowery woods and  while our other senses drink delight involuntary let us fix our  sight and regale it upon a visible epitome a perfect concentra  tion of Insect pleasure tasted through the medium of like senses  with our own Ask you where Why on this branchlet of the  graceful eglantine Look in the very centre of that ex  panded rose rolling and revelling amidst the crowded anthers  and scattering their golden dust upon the ivory petals is a red  tailed or redtipped Humblebee He we may be sure is in  the very height of enjoyment as ever and anon he sings shrilly  with delight and plunges deeper and deeper into the perfumed  chalice Can anything exceed his energetic active pleasure  Only possibly the calm lazy luxuriance of that sleek soft  Sybaritish Caterpillar rosefed rosecradled now regaling  heedless of the joy above him on a delicate morsel of the  flowery couch whereon he lies his green length extended the  very image of sensual sloth  But ah Sir Caterpillar thou pillager of cates fit for the  food of fairy blissful as thou seemest in discussion of thy  roseate repast here is a brother a less bulky one of thy gor  mandizing race who as we verily believe is eating his break  fast albeit a coarser one than thine a green rose leaf not a  pearly petal with a keener relish than thyself and why  Because by labour he has earned it and earned too a greater  measure of security from attack of surrounding foes quick  sighted bird and yet more dangerous quickeared prying  piercing Ichneumon He hangs close by encased all but the  head and shoulders which on the slightest alarm he would  presently encase too in a tent or hammock of his own work  manship curiously wrought of leaves of the rosetree spirally  rolled together and suspended by silken cords of his own  spinning so as to bring him within convenient reach of the  young green foliage on which he is making his repast  Let us notice last though it seems not least the evi  dent ecstasy of a thirsty habitually thirsty Butterfly a little  Gardenwhite come to the wood thus early to drink the  falling dewdrops ere they dry while overhead seated on the  branch above her are a pair of pretty japan Moths laying  their heads together for discussion doubtless in antennal  language of some topic of mutual interest the alarming  sound perhaps of our voices or our footsteps for now turn  ing their long horns otherwise long ears towards us they  take to flight ere we have time to catch more than a glimpse  of their beautiful fringed wings of bronze and gold Ah  little fairies it had been better for our cabinet and worse for  you if your sentinel senses had been less on the alert  The above is no imaginary picture but a group of objects  which may be seen any summers day in localities such as  we have represented  I love an honest thief  The month of Mars has been unusually pacific and Our  Ladys Day has brought us in consequence a thicker  sprinkling than usual of early spring flowers not yet indeed  profusely but most impartially has Flora begun to scatter her  gifts in earnest of future bounties The speed well by the  wayside already smiles encouragement to the traveller the  daisy eye of day looks up cheerily from the meadow the  woodanemone peeps out gaily from the copse the bare  blossom of the coltsfoot like a released captive eager for light  and liberty has shot from underground to meet the sun  without waiting to put on her greenleaf mantle Every  garden has its scattering of snowdrops crocuses and hepatica  and now there is not a wall so mouldering not a bank so dry  not a spot so barren but can boast its peculiar ornament in  the lively white blossoms of the whitlegrass  Tufting also the roof of many an humble cottage this little  hardy flower of poverty and promise seems created as if at  once to impart and to betoken hopeful feelings such feelings  as are in the present season the natural spring growth of every  healthy mind in every station however permitted for awhile  and for ends of Infinite Wisdom to be crushed or stinted  most frequently alas among the poor through human agency  But how amidst spring flowers have we stumbled on oppres  sion that foul weed of the social garden Perhaps because like  the whitloegrass it clings not unfrequently to cottage roofs  and perhaps also because with the return of even a spring  quarter distresses are too closely intertwined in the shape  of notices distrainings or ejectments consummations dire to  a dark winter of struggle starvation sickness and old age  one perhaps or all of them  But no more of these moral bindweeds choking the spring  products of the mind except to read in the page of Natures  book now open an emblematic prophecy of their extermina  tion In the glow of that genial and rising spirit of ameliora  tion which now prevails slowly but surely they will disappear  even as the icy fetters which arrested but a month ago the  gliding surface of this streamlet See how gaily does it now  sparkle in the sun putting on to be in fashion a wreath  of gladness and reflecting in lieu of leafless branches the  glories of the palm willow already rich in the gold and silver  of her flowery catkins This willows wealth would seem how  ever like other riches to have had its attractions for the  spoiler for here is a host of Insect plunderers finally awakened  from their winter torpor and brought from far by the honied  perfume which fills the air Yet truly these are no plunderers  they are the labourers of the hive We ask your pardon little  types and patterns of industry and are right glad to see you  on the wing Load your thighpanniers as you please with  golden treasure you are no pilferers for you take without  despoiling and you rob for us  But stay what have we here an idler among labourers a  highwayman among travellers a Wasp among Bees A  Wasp in March Yes truly and a Wasp of Wasps a very  Robin Hood of plunderers in comparison with whom the last  of his pilfering fraternity seen in autumn on the last peach  was but a Little John indeed Let us watch his proceedings  Is he going a la coutume to attack the Bees or contrary  to custom the flowers only Neither for scornfully passing  over both he has alighted on this old post beside the willow  and there he stays by turns walking and standing and  shaking his wings Now he seems to be engaged about  something but what nobody can tell unless he is biting and  gnawing the wood for very idleness or perhaps waspish  fellow as he is for very illhumour at seeing the Bees so  happy and so busy around him  There he has left the post and flown down to the bankside  and now all at once he has disappeared within a hole the  hybernacnlum we fancy of some fieldmouse into which he has  entered without even the common civility of asking permission  What business is he after some mischief or another thats  certain for whenever yet was Wasp or vagrant intent on good  always poking his nose now into this cranny now into that  peering here and prying there Well theres not an atom of  his great goldenwinged body to be discerned within the  tunnel so theres certainly no seeing what he is about and he  will not tell us if we wait for his return besides a cloud has  passed over the sun the Bees have all gone off some with  panniers only halfloaded as if expecting an April shower  before its time and perhaps we shall be prudent to take their  warning and go home too  Here we are again seated by our own fire such as is  always agreeable on an overcast afternoon in early spring  and we are consequently in pleasant mood disposed to be  in goodhumour with and do justice to all with propor  tionate desire to atone for word or deed of unfairness com  mitted towards the meanest creature Now some such  debt of compensation do we owe to that gigantic Wasp met  with in our morning walk and left just now exploring the  mousehole tunnel We have been employing it is true the  last halfhour in recording with the utmost accuracy those of  its proceedings which met the eye but then we have hinted at  its purposes only in accordance with the common and preju  diced notion that Wasps are always after mischief while we  were all the while perfectly aware that our Wasp was bent  upon an enterprise which however fraught to us with inci  pient evil was in itself highly laudable and worthy not of an  idler or a freebooter but of a perfect hero or more properly  heroine this great individual being in fact of the female sex  Now suppose a certain princess perhaps but recently a bride  to have seen her husband and her servants fall successively  around her the victims of some sweeping pestilence followed  by an earthquake Erom a violent paroxysm she herself sinks  into a stupor of grief from which she awakes to find herself  alone Under such trying circumstances she feels perhaps  that she would rather sit and wring her handkerchief till she  had wept like Niobe a pool big enough to drown at once  her sorrows and herself but having a right royal spirit she  combats her womans weakness by thoughts magnanimous  Though it would be easier to die she must live and bestir  herself not for her own sake but to uphold the honour of her  princely house which can only indeed be preserved from  utter extinction by the preservation of the posthumous heir  which she is likely to bring soon into his desolate inheritance  In earnest therefore does she arouse her energies and so  much to the purpose are they employed that she succeeds at  length by dint of individual exertion in founding a new city  and a new empire which peopled by her descendants  becomes fully equal to those of whose ruins she was the sur  vivor Of a widowed princess playing such a part it would  be said that she was a pattern heroine and we must now  advance the claims of a widowed Wasp to a title somewhat  similar for the performance of a like extraordinary achieve  ment  It is commonly known we believe that the race of Wasps  in general   Falls as the leaves do and dies in October  Such in fact is the case with the numerous herd of working  or as we generally call them thieving Wasps with the males  a quiet stayathome class with which we have little personal  acquaintance and with a portion of the females but of the  latter which are several times the size of the others a few  winter survivors are always left in every nest These of  which our bulky visitant to the mousehole was one after a  season of torpidity awake in early spring when each taking  her own separate beat chooses a favourable site for a new nest  Of this she is the architect and at this she works wholly un  assisted until the eggs which she takes care to deposit in its  first cells furnish her with assistants in the building and  peopling of her colony Although we do not dignify this  motherfoundress of the Wasps nest with the name of queen  she earns certainly by her independent exertions a much  higher claim to that title than does the pampered monarch of  the Beehive who keeps her state in idleness or performs  nothing for the honour she receives except increasing the  numbers of her subjects Be it noted however that the  foundress Wasp although the first is not the sole mother of  her community  We have now we hope done away with any erroneous  impressions which we in our introduction of a foundress  Wasp might to her prejudice have helped to confirm but  we shall go farther and at the risk of incurring almost as much  odium as themselves attempt a defence of Wasps in general  At its head however we must be allowed to place a well  remembered incident of our childhood because it may help to  account for our strange advocacy of a persecuted race  When we were of stature exceeding by about a head the  height of our nurses knee we learnt to lisp after her the  wellknown hymn of Dr Watts holding up Bee excellence  for baby imitation One sunny afternoon as she was enforcing  its moral by the busy appliance of her needle and repeating  we after her line upon line of our daily lesson   How doth the little busy Bee  Improve each shining hour  our eyes were attracted by the sight of a Wasp which had  settled on the apron of onr instructress Pointing our little  forefinger towards the intruder in whom we innocently  thought that we had our subject bodily before us we were  surprised to see our nurse start up with a scream let fall  her work shake her apron and stamp on the floor until a  few scattered fragments were all that remained of the hap  less insect Kill the busy Bee we exclaimed but were  sharply answered that it was a spiteful venomous Wasp  and that we were very silly not to know the difference In  what that difference consisted was a point however on which  our nurse did not deem it requisite to enlighten us But  our childish curiosity was awakened and in order to its satisfac  tion the very next time we saw an Insect which we were pretty  certain was either Bee or Wasp halfburied in a flowercup  we laid hands on it with a view to examination The little  forager as might have been expected stung our fingers but  now making sure that it was a Wasp we repressed a rising  scream and having first returned pinch for sting threw off  our enemy and trampled it under foot Triumphantly carry  ing the remains of our vanquished foe to our good nurse we  met with condemnation instead of praise for meddling with  the Bees the most innocent creatures in the world if nobody  offended them Prom that memorable day we took care  never to handle either Wasp or Bee though we had learnt to  distinguish one from the other And this early impression  may account for an unusual preference except in the matter  of honey for the genus Vespa over the genus Apis but there  are grounds for it which remain to be set forth  We have seen already the vast superiority of the mother  foundress of a Wasp community over that lump of pampered  productiveness called the Queen Bee and the difference in  favour of Wasps is yet more marked in the development of  masculine character The very name of the male or Drone Bee  has passed into a proverb expressive of idleness luxury and in  significance living on others labour qualities in the Insect so  burthensome even to his own kind that he is tolerated only  as a necessary evil and got rid of as soon as possible whereas  the male Wasp although it comes not into his province either  to build at home or to forage abroad is a goodnatured active  fellow disposed to do all he can and to make himself generally  useful He is described by Huber as sweeping the terraces  and passages of the nest removing thence all things that  offend and even as undertaking to dispose decently of the  dead a task wherein he calls in the aid of companions when  his own strength proves inadequate to its performance Ac  cording to his merit and his usefulness he is estimated by his fel  lowcitizens for he lives with them as long as the season and his  constitution will permit and the cruel autumn massacre which  defiles the Beehive is in the Waspnest a thing unknown  From the female and the male come we now last not least  to what has been called the Wasp neuter that correspondent  with the worker Bee and worker Ant wherein the best  qualities of both sexes the tenderness and patience of the one  and the bravery and activity of the other seem to meet on  neutral ground be it noted however that this neutral ground  so rich in every quality but that of productiveness is in fact  female  Of this latter class are nearly all the Wasps with which we  are commonly acquainted both those which as stragglers or  scouts appear through the earlier months of summer and those  which forming the main body make their descent in August or  more properly their ascent from underground barracks to sap  our fruits and invade our parlours and larders Under this their  characters of notorious depredators we seem to have arrived  at a difficult point in the defence we have undertaken but  even here we are not at fault for some most excellent  pleas in behalf of our maligned clients That Wasps are  thieves there is no denying but they are generous thieves  They steal from us and from our pampered Honeybees not  merely to gratify a thievish or a greedy propensity but with  a view to supply the wants of the helpless and poor of their  community Not a grain of sugar nor a drop of honey or of  peachjuice do they swallow of which a portion is not dis  gorged birdlike into the hungry mouths of their infant  population while not a morsel of meat is pilfered or a fly  carried off of which the whole or part is not made over to  the younger and stayathome members of the horde  Bees as well as Wasps are sometimes robbers and of a much  worse description because they rob their brethren It is not  unfrequent we are told for the inhabitants of a distressed hive  to turn marauders under the name of Corsairbees These  not only attack in a body more prosperous communities but  like highway robbers will lie in wait by parties of three and  four for any unfortunate single Bee returning alone and laden  to its hive One seizes it by a leg another by a wing or  perhaps there are two on each side confining or pulling its  limbs while they maul and pummel its chest and bite its  head This maltreatment obliges it to disgorge its honey  which the robbers eagerly lap till they are satisfied and then  let their prisoner go  The Wasps are above such mean and cowardly proceed  ings we never heard at least of their turning under any  extremity robbers of their kind and therefore socially con  sidered they are no robbers at all Then for courage a wasp  is scarcely to be equalled A single one will venture it is  said to face a whole hive of Bees after a booty of honey and  is in fair combat a match for any three inhabitants of the  apiary The same character of boldness accompanies and in  our opinion helps to redeem the depredations of the Wasp as  exercised upon ourselves Bull of spirit as she is she is as  difficult to get rid of as an unwelcome guest who has no spirit  at all We may crush her nay cut her and still cut in  vain She will even partake our meal and complete her  own after that most unkindly cut of all which severs  her head from her body Of one it is recorded that she  lived three days after decapitation a miracle of nature only  to be matched by the legendary ones of St Dionysius St  Winifred or their Saxon prototype Queen Oswitha who when  her head was cut off by the Danes carried it three furlongs  before she fell down and died  But suppose them killed what is our gain in having dealt  death singly or by retail to our pilfering customers Nothing  usually but a flushed face a soiled handkerchief and may be  a swollen finger By treacherously drowning them in sweet  delights of beer and sugar we do but little better since for  the scores thus perishing we attract many more by our vessels  of temptation and phials of wrath The only mode then of  Wasp massacre which we consider other than wanton because  not futile is their wholesale destruction when we can come at  them in their own strongholds within the earth We might  possibly however be of a different opinion were we in the  grocery line and subject to any such tremendous loss as that  of £20 said to have been experienced by a single tradesman  in one season in the article of sugar  Both Reaumur and the younger Huber studied the domestic  economy of the common Wasp as they did that of Bees by  means of glass hives In this they were greatly assisted by the  extreme affection of Wasps for their young for though the  nest be carried off cut in various directions and exposed to  the light they never abandon it or relax in their attention to  their progeny No less admirable than the affection thus  testified is their ingenuity displayed under the same circum  stances of distress in repairing the breaches of their habitation  removing its ruins and fixing it to the glass by columns of  support Operations such as these suggested by and adapted  to unlooked for exigences savour certainly of something  beyond the limited powers of instinct an dan anecdote related  of the Wasp by Dr Darwin exemplifies yet more strongly  its capacity of adapting means to ends The doctor saw on  his gravel walk a Wasp with a My nearly as big as itself  Kneeling down he distinctly observed it cut off the head  and abdomen of its prey and then taking up the trunk to  which the wings remained attached fly away but a breeze of  wind acting upon the wings of the My turned round the Wasp  with its burthen and impeded its progress Upon this it  again alighted sawed off first one wing and then the other  and having thus removed the cause of its embarrassment flew  off with its booty In the above instance the Wasp seemed to  have omitted a part of its usual operation on the bodies of  captured Mies all the wings of which we have several times  seen them thus dexterously cut off  Let us now return to our starting point of this morning  the streamlet side the palm willow the hole in the bank  and the giantess of her kind who disappeared within it At  her business there we may now make a tolerable guess namely  that as survivor of an old house and sole foundress of a new  one she was employed in laying its foundations having availed  herself as is not uncommonly the case of the previous labours  of a mouse to save her own in the preparatory business  of excavation Quite as frequently however the foundress  Wasp is indebted to no other agency than that of her own  powerful jaws and claws for the digging out and carrying away  of the earth in which she forms her burrow a chamber  usually of one or two feet in diameter approachable from with  out by a narrow entrance gallery This subterranean area  being found or formed her next operation is to lay within it  the foundations or walls of her intended city For this purpose  earth is a material which will not serve her turn and the  nature of that which she employs was long a puzzle The  substance of which the walls and cells of a vespiary are con  structed is now however ascertained to be none other than  paper formed of woodraspings mixed with a sort of size  worked to a paste and subsequently spread into sheets by the  Insect fabricator  We have continually noticed and any one in summertime  may do the same a Wasp busily at work with its jaws upon  an old paling or window frame Now many may suppose that  there is little in this worthy of observation but simply from  notice of this trifling and common circumstance did Reaumur  discover the Wasp to be a paper maker and was enabled to  trace the subsequent processes of her manufacture Had these  been observed sooner our art of papermaking as now prac  tised might have had an earlier date The foundress whom  we saw this morning had been occupied while settled on the  post in the first or woodrasping process of her fabrication  and on entering the hole she no doubt carried with her a bun  dle of fibres to be kneaded into paperpaste Then supposing  that the nest was in an early stage of progress she would  proceed to spread a covering of this substance over the roof or  upper part of her excavated chamber strengthening the same  with repeated layers Her next proceedings have been thus  described ■ Having finished the ceiling she begins to  build the first terrace of her city which under its protection  she suspends horizontally and not like the combs of a Bee  hive in a perpendicular position The suspension of which  we speak is light and elegant compared with the more heavy  union of the Hivebee s combs It is in fact a hanging floor  or terrace immovably secured by rods of similar material with  the roof but rather stronger The terrace itself is circular  and composed of an immense number of cells made of the paper  already described and almost of the same size and form as  those of a honeycomb each being a perfect hexagon These  cells however are never used as honeypots by Wasps as   Insect Architecture p 76  they are by Bees for Wasps make no honey and the cells  are wholly appropriated to rearing the young When the  foundress Wasp has completed a certain number of cells and  deposited eggs in them she soon intermits her building ope  rations in order to procure food for the young grubs which  now require all her care In a few weeks these become perfect  Wasps and lend their assistance in the extension of the edifice  enlarging the original coping of the foundress by side walls  and forming another platform of cells suspended to the first  by columns as that had been suspended to the ceiling Thus  gradually by the end of summer this city of hanging terraces  is completed the descendants of the original foundress many  of whom are females assisting also to provide its population  which according to the calculation of Reaumur may amount  in one year to 30000  Kirby has designated the Beehive a waxen palace the  Wasp nest a paper cottage but with all due deference to  that distinguished naturalist we can scarcely admit the wide  difference implied in such terms of comparison But let us  liken it to whatsoever we may palace cottage or city the  desolation which falls sooner or later on every palace of pride  every cottage of peace every city of business rushes at a pace  of more than ordinary swiftness on the habitation of the Wasp  Scarcely has it arrived at completion through the labours of  the youngest generation of its inhabitants when the early  frosts of autumn slightly thin their numbers their active  limbs and wings begin to stiften their vital juices to grow  sluggish their bold spirits to grow tame their supplies and  their energies to seek them fail both together The same indivi  dual who under the summer sun would have fearlessly opposed  a whole host of Bees now suffers a starveling Ply to enter her  habitation and insult her weakness When November comes  the W asp population is cut of as by a pestilence of those  abroad some fall far from their habitation others crawl back to  die while those at home lately so busy in the works of build  ing repairing or keeping in order are now sluggishly inactive  Even their ruling passion their powerful affection for their  young becomes extinguished with the torpor of other feelings  or through an instinctive foresight that all are about to perish   for the cradled occupants of the cells are neglected and  allowed to die of want without an effort to supply their crav  ings It is even said that in the extremity of their misery  and despair the old Wasps destroy and drag them from their  cells In a little while the city of terraces becomes a city of  the dead its sole surviving dwellers and they happily buried  in torpor are some two or three of the widowed females such  as the one seen at work this morning on whom depends the  perpetuation of the race No sooner does the early spring  awake them than like her they depart each on her way to  found another city  We are almost inclined to wonder why one at least of these  survivors good housewives as they are does not bustle about  repair damages cast out remains sweep out chambers and  furbish up the already complete abode instead of setting out  at the cost of infinite pains and trouble to commence a new  one Perhaps however such appropriation by one or two  of the readymade property to which all might claim an  equal right might cause disputes very unbecoming to an  Insect family of which the members are not accustomed  to quarrel amongst themselves Perhaps also their paper  walls are too much weakened by the influence of winter  frosts and thaws to weather another summer or perhaps  But without further question the female Wasp  undoubtedly is best informed upon her own business and to  her discretion we may safely leave it  Our defence is concluded Can a Wasphater remain  among its readers  THE ROYAL KEEORM   Subjects commonly do find  New made Sovereigns most kind  There was great grief in one of the monarchies of the earth  the queen regnant of a numerous people had just been summoned  to her ancestors Yesterday she was a brilliant spark of life  from which light and activity extended to the very circum  ference of her kingdom today she is but a dull lump of  mortality casting its shade and imparting its torpor far and  wide around The cheerful hum of labour is hushed in every  quarter and in its stead arises the mournful wail of lamentation  The royal corpse is cold yet faithful attendants and devoted  bodyguards still watch around it as if reluctant to believe  their occupation gone Some of these loving creatures will  even starve upon their grief and fall dead themselves around  the body of their defunct mistress  But the kingdom of Apia that of which we now write was  always a monarchy of marvels and of strange customs and  those which regarded the succession to the crown were some  of the strangest among them The chief population of the  country consisted of females who were all spinsters and who  filled every active office in the state from the very lowest to  the highest save one that of the sovereign who was also  always a female but never continued a virgin queen It  would however occasionally happen that proper heiresses or  princesses of the bloodroyal were wanting to fill a vacant  throne in which case a curious expedient was wont to be re  sorted to Several infants were selected from among the  labouring population and from the close apartments and con  fined cradles belonging to their station were transferred to stately  nurseries and luxurious cots and in lieu of common nourish  ment supplied abundantly with food expressly manufactured  for making queens The quality of this precious article was  so nutritive and of such marvellous virtue as not only to swell  these chosen vessels of royalty to a prodigious size but also to  fill them with endowments bodily and mental quite different  to what they would have possessed in their original condition  and exactly suited to that station which one or more of them  was destined to fill Who would have thought that a people  possessed of such an elixir for making perfect sovereigns  could ever have been tempted to disregard or pervert a gift so  unheard of or that not contented with the modelling power  thus put into their hands they should ever have desired to  exercise it to a greater extent and after a different fashion  Yet so in the course of ages it was destined to happen and  the rise of this extraordinary spirit of innovation among the  people of Apia occurred at the epoch when our relation com  mences namely that of the royal demise  Amidst the general demonstrations of respect and grief for  her late Apian majesty only one class of her subjects wore an  appearance of indifference and that was the very class wherein  a stranger to courts might have least expected to find it  namely amongst the deceased queens favourites or candidates  for her favour for having been cut off in the springtime of  her age it was not yet known that she had selected a prince  consort from amongst her suitors who rivalling in number  those of Penelope amounted to no less than 400 Already  indeed had she been suspected by the jealous eyes of 339 to  look with favour upon one and in any other state it might  possibly have happened that in the failure of natural heirs  this favourite might have made a venture for the crown But  as already said the succession in Apia was in the female line  nor was this a wonder for the entire masculine population was  always comprised in the suitors of royalty aforesaid than whom  APIAN COURTIERS  235  even among ordinary court danglers a more effeminate set never  existed Doing nothing caring for nothing but to eat sleep  and philander with their royal mistress they were the only  members of the Apian community who never wore swords and  whether as queens suitors or queens consorts they were  equally regarded except just in that limited capacity as the  merest nonentities From one generation to another these  poltroons had submitted without care or murmur to their  humiliating position and unwarned by the usual fate of their  predecessors were accustomed to purchase a brief season of  idleness and luxury by a bloody end The Amazonian queens  of Apia were in fact a species of female Bluebeard not that  they exactly murdered or even ordered the execution of their  numerous lovers or husbands but being truly patriotic  sovereigns and mothers of their people they always connived  at their slaughter by an infuriated populace as soon as they  became an insupportable burthen to the community and were  no longer acceptable to themselves Indeed the principle  carried out through necessity in a besieged city of expelling  every useless member had always been the ruling policy of  the monarchy of Apia and not only the male patricians who  never laboured in their lives but a portion even of the female  plebeians when from age unable to labour any more were  offered up a periodical sacrifice at the shrine of expediency  However shocking the above customs it would nevertheless  seem that like the bloody code of Draco they were salutary  at all events the political system of Apia worked well and the  perfection of its government as well as the industry of its  people was always universally extolled held up even for imi  tation by the various nations amongst whom the queendom of  Apia and her sister states were located and to whom they  paid tribute  To return to our narrative on the occasion of the great  event wherewith it opens there occurred the deficiency above  spoken of an heir was wanting to fill the vacant throne  Sincere as was their mourning the loyal subjects of the  queen defunct soon ceased idly to bewail her loss and while  the majority resumed their usual avocations a select com  mittee was appointed to the important business of making  an artificial sovereign out of a piece of plebeian stuff to supply  the place of a naturalborn princess As a preliminary to this  process a party of work women was instantly employed to pull  down a number of ordinary dwellings for the erection on the  same site of several most spacious royal nurseries and in the  performance of this business so little was the regard paid to  the poor occupants of these humble tenements that a parcel of  helpless children sleeping unconsciously in their cradles were  crushed beneath the ruins This proceeding would certainly  appear of a somewhat cruel and arbitrary character but the  rule of Apia was as we have said the rule of expediency  and who can say that there is nothing at all resembling it  among ourselves now groaning beneath the iron rule not of  royal but of railway despotism No doubt however by  the twentieth century all similar crushings of people in the  way will be numbered amongst the barbarisms of a by  gone age  From the little lowborn Apians thus carelessly sacrificed  several were selected in case of accidents to become recipients  of the royal elixir and tenants of the palace nurseries We  shall now visit a quarter of the Apian city where under the  hands of workwomen both diligent and numerous the new  erections were rising as if by magic on the ruins of the late  humble habitations Not far from and within view of the  busy scene stood a group of idlers chiefly composed you may  be sure of some of those idlers by profession the four hundred  gentlemen hangerson of royalty deceased With these how  ever were seen intermingled on the present occasion two or  three aged and decrepit females of the workingclass of  those permitted to hold for awhile on sufferance their doomed  and joyless lives They were strange companions those young  lazy lordlings and those workworn crazy crones but times of  public excitement are wont to bring together strange gossips  and there was at least one thing in common the common fate  which usually awaited them between the opposite individuals  now met Well really drawled one of the young nobles  to a brother idler as he looked up listlessly at the building  operations if theyre not getting on famously The manu  factory will be built in no time and then theyll presently  turn us out another royal mistress and cam sposa mine my  lord or yours as may be  The companion to whom this speech was addressed shrugged  his shoulders looked cautiously around and then returned in  a tone almost inaudible Tve been thinking whether we  might not dispense with any such personage at all What  exclaimed the other starting his large dull eyes almost spark  ling with astonishment at the unheardof notion Do without  our queen our light our life our loadstar Surely my  lord thou hast been quaffing too freely of the funereal nectar  and art beside thyself Our very existence depends upon  the smiles of our royal mistress The disloyal and bold  suggestor of a new idea answered only by a low sound  resembling in meaning a contemptuous laugh and the audible  sneer was echoed though in a shriller key by one of the aged  females who had been listening to the discourse in which she  now ventured to take a part In good sooth master mine  said she thou hast said right thy own existence and that  of all thy brethren did verily depend on the pleasure of her  majesty deceased and as her majestyinmaking will be  finished exactly after the same pattern why on her pleasure  they will depend also the which gracious pleasure or what  amounts to the same gracious permission will be that your  throats are cut every one of you before the summer is over  How how what say you mistress exclaimed both the  speakers and several other of their lounging lordships who  had gradually augmented the group The dark old female  chuckled like a witch when her charms work well and with a  sarcastic leer continued Yes my masters a weighty ob  ligation truly you were under to our late most excellent  sovereign and with reason do you pay her memory all becoming  deference Hearken to her royal virtues innocent as a lamb  gentle as a dove see how her acts bespoke her Amiable lady  no sooner had she arrived at reigning age than inspired with  noble jealousy she with her own hands murdered her sister  princesses Then how laudably did she live in pompous state  surrounded by your lordships and the rest of her courtly  retinue while we her people supported her by the sweat of  our brows How gratefully did she repay our labour by orders  not for pensions but for executions as soon as age should  render us incapable of toil How dignified her exemption from  all cares of government concerning which she would have  thought it the lowest degradation to have troubled her royal  head Above all my noble masters how tender and disinterested  were the favour and protection extended to yourselves so long as  you could minister to her delight how humane to spare your  wounded feelings by giving you up to slaughter as assuredly  she would have done so soon as her pleasure in you was at an  end Such were the brilliant qualities such the noble deeds  of her majesty departed and such while our queens continue  to be made after one model will be the qualities and doings  of her majesty forthcoming What can you desire better  The lordlings looked at one another in blank astonishment  With the exception of one frightful feature that of their own  simultaneous massacre with which they were of course not  personally acquainted they could not deny the accuracy of the  old crones royal portrait yet owing to the new light in which  she had placed it it appeared altogether in new and alarming  colours They not only looked at each other but they looked  at the building in progress murmurs arose Well have  no such tyrant no such cruel mistress to rule over us Well  attack the royal nurseries and kill all the royal nurslings in  their cradles And then they looked as fierce as any  Bobadil or Drawcansir They even put their hands to their  sides as if to feel for weapons forgetting at the moment  that the males of Apia were never privileged to carry arms  about them They forgot too that the royal buildings  were protected both by workwomen and guardswomen and  that the bulk of the people indeed the entire population  save only the superannuated were for the queeninfeeding  being all devotedly attached to royalty after the old model  All this the lords had forgotten but it was only for a moment  the next they remembered it out went their little sparks of  courage and they looked less vacant but more blank than  ever They must submit quietly to let the new queen be made  after the old pattern and allow themselves par consequence to  be done to death as their fathers had ever been before them  But the cunning old female was made of other stuff For  shame my lords said she why droop ye There are  other weapons besides the sword and though in virtue of my  sex I wear one on the present occasion Tis a useless remedy  However gentlemen I know a better trick I am old and  have long laboured in the haunts of those gigantic creatures  who call themselves our masters but I have laboured not only  like my sisterhood to collect within their wide domain of the  stores requisite for our provision but also to glean a know  ledge of their arts and sciences not a few of which I find them  to have borrowed from ourselves Indeed although they  boast themselves superior to our race they have always cried  up the merits of our ancient institutions lamentably defective  as they are Tor many ages even till the beginning of the  present century these wiseacres were contented enough with  what they called hereditary sovereigns poor bungling tools  as bad as ours or worse but now having at length taken  the hint from us they have learned to manufacture their own  sovereigns as we our queens only after a much more clever  and complete method We with our boasted elixir of certain  and invariable properties stuff and stimulate body and mind  into an invariable shape converting what would have been a  useful active member of society into an enormous bloated  idle cruel tyrant They by means of a wondrous art called  mesmerism acting on mind according as they please contrive  to expand the virtues and repress the vicious propensities of  their infant subject be it of royal or of humble birth till they  turn out of their moral laboratories paragons of princes and  princesses such as were never before known since the world  began Now of this most curious art and mystery you must  know my lords that I have picked up quite enough to model  you as pretty a queen as any subject need desire Get me but  a place within yonder royal nursery and  Ill do I ll do I ll do l  Then under a sovereign truly of our own making shall we me  chanics and labourers of the community when like myself worn  out with toil receive some better recompense than destitution  or death and you my masters instead of ending by the same  a short if pleasant life shall be permitted by a kind and gentle  mistress to enjoy your libations love and leisure even to the  term of your natural existence  Here a mingled hum of surprise and approbation succeeded  to the silence which had reigned during the speech of the aged  sibyl Personal interest had aroused her hearers from their usual  drowsy apathy and anxious for a reform of royalty which was so  greatly to benefit themselves they were eager to test the reality  of the old dames pretensions by doing all they could to for  ward her desire It may seem strange that the male patrician  order worthless as we have described it should have possessed  any influence at all with the Amazonian people of Apia but  the latter well knew how necessary these idlers would have  been for a season to the sovereign defunct and that as they  would be no less so to her successsor then in making they  THE NEW SOVEREIGNS  243  were just at the present juncture of vast importance in the  state Their recommendation was therefore promptly at  tended to and the aged professor of the mesmeric art soon  found herself chief superintendent of the royal nurseries  Here she continued working her secret charms until the  young plebeian plants forced into royalty were sufficiently  grown up for transplantation  When amongst several princesses whether royal born or  only royal bred one happened to be considerably older than  the others she was always in the habit as a matter of Apian  custom of murdering her little sisters even in their cradles  but when as on the present occasion all were nearly of  equal age it was usual that the succession should be settled  between them by single combat a procedure to which they  never wanted any prompting save the bloodthirsty jealousy  of their dispositions It had not however been for nothing  that the headnurse mesmeriser had been promoted to her  influential place The crone had worked like a witch indeed  and strange the magic of her doings with her tender charges  of whom three only arrived at maturity and that together  Now was the time of struggle for empire or for death but  instead of what usually took place neither of the trio  showed the smallest disposition to lord or lady it above  her fellows In vain did the populace anxious that  one alone which they cared not should reign over them  form a capacious ring around what ought to have been  the arena for the royal combatants Instead of drawing  their weapons as became their artificial rank the gentle  maidens sat or paraded side by side took hold of each  others arms whispered in each others ears and kept  looking as prim and pleasant as boardingschool young ladies  on an exhibition night The people were astounded the lords  alone delighted at what seemed to promise the entire completion  of what had been undertaken by their old confederate with  whom they ever and anon contrived to exchange a furtive wink  But what was to be done Three queens at once an  Amazonian triumvirate Such a thing was quite unexampled  in the annals of Apia Meetings were held among the people  who finally agreed that their crown must be made elective and  that one of the young candidates if so they might be called  should be chosen to wear it Yet the choice itself was not  without embarrassment the young virgins were as much alike  as three peas or the three sides of an equilateral triangle  Still people will differ about three straws and will declare  violent preferences where they would be puzzled to discern a  difference Accordingly from the unambitious spirit of these  sovereigns fresh from the mint who cared as little for the  crown as if they had been so many Ladies Jane Gray arose a  party spirit till then unknown within the realm of Apia Each  of the lamblike ladies soon became the nominal head of a furious  wolflike faction and the din first of wordy quarrels then of  clashing weapons resounded through the Amazonian monarchy  Industry languished the arts of peace were neglected instead  of as usual the fall in single combat of a few supernumerary  scions of royalty the most useful members of society were  swept off by hundreds in general engagements until at length  tired of contention the parties agreed to a compromise and  one of the princesses chosen by lot was placed upon the long  vacant throne the others being amiably contented to officiate  as her maids of honour  Hitherto it had been the custom of the sovereigns of Apia  either left to nature or made up after her original receipt to  take little part in the affairs of government being quite satisfied  with permission to gratify their ruling passions of love and  jealousy Not long however had the new modelled queen been  seated on the throne before her softened disposition began  farther to unfold itself in her frequently proposed schemes for  the imagined welfare of her subjects but the latter ardently  attached to their ancient institutions considered her benevolent  innovations in the light of anything rather than a boon The  old mesmeric queenmaker and her superannuated companions  together with the luxurious nobles were not disappointed  indeed of the personal benefit for which they had been con  federate The former were permitted to spin out to its extreme  length the attenuated thread of their existence the reformed  queen having acquired an organ of Philoprogenitiveness  greatly too large to allow of the destruction even of the most  useless of her subjects The lives of the nobles were of course  on the same ground considered sacred and they were now  favoured not only by the perpetual smiles of their gentle mis  tress whose Amativeness had been permanently developed  but by those also of her no less gentle maids of honour They  toyed they feasted and they slept no dreams of death  warrants no visions of massacre now haunting their re  pose The working people who be it remembered were all  respectable spinsters began to look grave still they toyed  The starving people began to look glum still they feasted  The angry people began to look fierce still they slumbered  for they relied on the tender constancy of their royal mistress  who had the will to protect them and the loyalty tf her  faithful subjects to whom however they might look her will  was yet a law So for awhile it lasted but darker storms  were brewing Woe to the ancient monarchy of Apia  Safe for so many ages while led by the clear unerring lamp  of instinct a stolen ray from the sun of reason had been  furtively introduced into her very heart and the Promethean  fire bade fair to involve her in a destructive blaze The people  of Apia though ignorant of all theories of political economy  the Malthusian among the number were intuitively alive to  the dangers of redundant population One of their methods  of reducing such political plethora has already been recorded  namely that periodic bloodletting wont to be effected by the  wholesale massacre of all useless members of the state but  this rigorous measure would have been wholly insufficient  without another aid that of emigration which was also yearly  resorted to In this most loyal if not most monarchical of  states nothing could be done without the presence of the  queen who indeed as the only matron was truly the mother of  her subjects and it had always been the custom whenever a  party of colonizers set forth for the reigning sovereign either  to lead or accompany them a young princess being always  kept guarded in a snug corner safe from her elders jealousy  and in readiness to fill her vacant place Never was emigra  tion more requisite than at the period which followed the  accession of the new mesmermodelled queen Her totally  subdued Destructiveness having led her to spare her two  royal rivals these having long since given up their places as  maids of honour had become as well as herself wives and  mothers of a numerous progeny and the same benevolising  influence having caused her as we have seen to spare the lives  both of the aged and of the idle of the community the hive  had never before been so overflowing with inhabitants or so  deficient in provisions for their support Death and threatened  famine were the result and emigration under the present  humanized order of things the only remedy but both the  reformed queen and the princesses either of whom the wouldbe  emigrants would have been content to follow were much too  domestic or spiritless to lead them Collected in a hungry  crowd they wanted only a royal conductress to desert their  native in search of a distant home but no such leader could  be found Fuming with impatience the anger of the famished  populace like the turbulence of a sea checked in its progress  rose the higher from obstruction With hoarse murmurs they  approached the precincts of the court rolled onwards to the  palace and retreated not till they had swept away in their  unbounded fury those who were its unworthy objects the  idle and rapacious favourites whose tragic fate so long sus  pended no queenly commands no womanly entreaties could  now avert Of these not one survived to tell the tale of their  extermination But here the fury of the multitude was  stayed the four hundred lives of the hapless nobles including  the prince or princesconsort had appeased it and the persons  of the queen and her sister widows were sacred in the eyes of  the people of Apia So long as a remnant of provision or of  strength to procure it lasted the royal trio knew not the  pangs of hunger beneath which hundreds were daily perishing  around them The young of the community wanting their  accustomed food and usual attendance perished also in great  numbers and some yet in a state of infancy were overlooked  amidst the general distress and suffered to corrupt within  their cradles This together with the long crowded state of  the metropolis soon invited pestilence to fill up the measure  of destruction already wrought by her sisters war and famine  and from the hand of pestilence no rank or loyalty could save  Among those who first fell beneath her deadly grasp were  the queen and princesses leaving as often happened amidst  a numerous progeny no royal heirs The queenmaking  elixir had been every drop secretly thrown away by the old  mesmeric superintendent of the royal nurseries and the season  was past for collecting those rare vegetable essences of which  it was wont to be composed Had it indeed been otherwise  there were none able to travel in search of them The  wretched remnant of the people whose very life lay centered in  their sovereign now cared not to survive Their spring of  action and of industry was gone and surrounding the corpse  of their late mistress they raised her monumental mound with  their own wasted bodies  Thus came to destruction the ancient Amazonian monarchy  of Apia but before her ruin was complete the worker of the  mighty mischief the aged sibyl who had dared to filch wisdom  or folly from a higher race who had meddled in matters too  lofty for her handling had met with her reward On the  arrival of famine she and her infirm companions were its  earliest victims thus falling by a fate more frightful because  more lingering than that which awaited them under the  ancient order of things   The happy people in their waxen cells  Sit tending public cares  We must now treat of Bees as a body politic our reform  episode may not require a key but it shall have an appendix  We cannot for one moment suppose any of our readers so  ignorant of the hives economy as not to have discovered in  the jealous vindictive fertile adulated sovereign the queen  mother of the Apiary in her numerous spinster subjects busied  in all cares and labours but those of maternity and some even  which to that more properly belong the workers of the same  called neuters though in fact imperfect females and in the  idle luxurious parasitic lords of the Apian court the lazy  drones which live on others labour  We shall now relate a few facts concerning the economy of  Bees stripped of the fanciful attire wherein we have taken the  liberty of dressing them  If any form of government be faultless it must be one acting  immediately under divine guidance and of this class are the  instinctive institutions of social animals which are therefore  perfect in their kind Under an idea of such perfection  erroneously applied the people of the hive have been held up  to ns people of the earth not only as patterns of industry  but also of political economy and have been cited not only as  arguments for monarchy but as models also of monarchical  government That men might nevertheless just as well  attempt to build their cities after the pattern of a honeycomb  as to mould their institutions after those of the honeycombos  inhabitants is evidenced we should think even in our little  romance Leigh Hunt has painted in amusing colours the  egregious absurdity of such an imitation and the same will  appear every whit as strongly in the following outline sketch  of the interior of a hive  Insect societies such as those of Bees Wasps Ants and  White Ants or Termites are in fact things sui generis  standing by themselves they present natural pictures to which  throughout the animal kingdom no pendants are to be found  and it is this which makes them doubly interesting A well  peopled hive consists of one queen several hundred males or  drones and many thousand workers the latter of which are all  imperfect females though bearing no resemblance either in  size or habits to the pampered individual who nominally fills  the throne and actually fills the hive by supplying its abundant  population  The royal female to whom this endowment of surpassing pro  ductiveness forms the very charter of her authority the very  bond by which she holds the hearts of her devoted subjects  derives from character but slender claims on their respect  During the entire period of her life and reign which is generally  estimated at about two or three years she performs not a single  labour for the good of the community save that of increasing  its numbers and her bulky body is seldom roused from its  wonted state of luxurious indolence except when her royal  spirit is chafed by the influence of vindictive jealousy  The queen of the hive born like the queens of earth no  better than her meaner sisterhood like them issues from the  egg a helpless grub but the chamber of her birth as compared  with theirs is of right royal dimensions vertical in position  and of cylindric instead of octagonal form Ample room is  thus afforded for the full expansion and development of all her  members as she progresses towards maturity while to hasten  and improve her growth the food supplied her by her assiduous  nurses and future subjects is of the most nutritious and delicate  description not the simple Beebread composed of common  pollen and considered good enough for common Beeinfancy  but a rare and curious preparation nicely concocted from flowery  juices and as reserved expressly for royal nutriment called  by Beefarmers royal jelly Thus spaciously lodged and  delicately fed the favoured grub when arrived at full growth  spins within her cell a silken shroud therein changes to a  nymph or pupa and thence in due time issues forth in all  her dignity of majestic size in all the resplendency of her  goldenringed bodysuit the more conspicuous for the scantiness  of her gauze drapery those filmy wings in which alone her  outward gifts instead of surpassing are inferior to those of  her subjects  Come we now to the busy workers of whom the numerous  sisterhood the million of the hive is made up From these  the Bee character has been always painted and painted justly  as loyal and patriotic laborious patient and skilful to which  might be added maternally affectionate for though never  mothers themselves the latter propensity possesses them so  strongly as to convert their office as nurses to the queens pro  geny to all in short of the infant community into what  would seem truly a labour of love Although their instinctive  virtues if we may use the term are so immeasurably expanded  beyond the narrow growth of those apparent in their royal  mistress compression is one of the agents employed to effect  this mighty difference between them and the worker Bee is  it would seem made a useful member of the body politic by a  process very similar to that which renders the foot of a Chinese  lady a somewhat useless member of her body natural  The baby Bee destined to become a Bee labourer finds  herself on emerging from the egg an inhabitant of one of those  common sixsided cells which as it would appear is so pro  portioned as in some measure to limit her growth and thus  prevent her from attaining her full development To this  outward restriction is superadded an inward check in the  quality of the food administered by her nurses In lieu of the  royal jelly that stimulating and nutritious extract prepared  only for the queen her infancy is supported on the simple fare  of Beebread which while it suffices to bring to maturity  every useful endowment of activity affords no food for the  development of the sensual and vindictive passions and with  all these smothered in the cradle our worker comes forth  mature in all Apian excellence modest in habits a nun  among Insects and a very sister of charity among her  fellows  Thus much for the queen and commonalty the females of  the hive and now for the three or four hundred of the opposite  sex who as partakers of the royal favour or as candidates for  the same as well as for their worthless qualities may fairly be  compared to the aristocracy of a state where birth not worth  makes the man We need not describe the Drone whether of  a biped or of a Bee community since the one is a pattern of  and lends name to the other The chief difference between  them is this that biped Drones are to be seen every day of the  year while Beedrones are to be only seen because they are  only allowed to exist during those days of summer which  intervene betwixt April and August And truly living as  they do to eat a quarters span of luxurious existence at the  expense of those who only eat to live is a tolerably fair pro  portion Such at least would seem to be the opinion of the  workers of the hive for the queen having meanwhile chosen  a royal partner or partners from among them the whole  three or four hundred fall by a general massacre towards the  end of July or early in August The Amazonian city is thus  rid of all useless mouths before winter with her icy batteries  lays siege to its strawbuilt outworks and waxen walls  Have those by whom Bee economy has been held up for  human imitation ever thought about the awful consequences  which would be involved in even a partial copy of the above  severely wholesome policy  Having now glanced separately at each of the anomalous  classes of a Bee community its matron queen who possesses  no political authority and performs no matronly duties its com  monalty of single females endowed with every manly and at  the same time matronly virtue and its nobility of males the  most insignificant and most effeminate of all we shall take  another look at them as they stand together socially related  Let us suppose ourselves one moonlight evening in May  taking a garden stroll beside a range of Beehives Instead of  the nightly stillness which is wont in Bee cities to succeed the  daily hum there arises from one of these a loud uneasy  murmur which instead of lessening continues to increase with  the lateness of the hour Our hive is not of glass but if it  were the restlessness thus audible without would become  apparent within by the evidences of crowding confusion  and jostling by all the tokens in short usually attendant  on some grand event in expectation From so violent a ferment  of vitality something must of necessity arise but through the  livelong night nothing comes of it and the morning sun rises  on nothing but the same scene and sound of agitated turmoil  Erom tokens such as these an ordinary keeper of Bees  would merely surmise that a swarm was coming and an old  fashioned village dame would be sure by this time to be getting  in readiness her fryingpan and iron ladle to ring the parting  colony to their new abode But there are those who have pre  tended to see much farther through Bee confusion and to enter  much deeper into Bee councils In the midst of all this bustle  of movement and Babel of sound they would distinguish shrill  above the murmur of her subjects the authoritative voice of the  queenmother about to lead or at all events to accompany the  departing swarm of emigrants They doubtless would be able  to report correctly the sovereigns harangue on this important  occasion more full doubtless of significance than royal  speeches are wont to be combining the pathetic the dictatorial  and the cheering farewell and counsel to the body of her  people to be left at home command and encouragement to the  party about to attend her to a new settlement  Midday now approaches the royal speech is ended the  applauding murmurs have subsided farewells are taken and the  body of emigrants rush forth headed or it may be followed by  their sovereign lady These however we mean not to accom  pany even to the adjacent bough on which they have settled  most likely for a temporary rest because we shall see more by  keeping to the parent hive through the portal of which we  must fairy like effect a passage at this epoch of interest and  importance the loss of its queen with a large proportion of  its population Row upon row of hexagonal houses hang  suspended in clusters from a common roof Most of them are  occupied some as storehouses for honey and Beebread others  as nurseries for Beeinfancy and where not otherwise engaged  as dormitories for Beelabourers who with heads and shoulders  ensconced within their cells are accustomed at intervals thus  to turn their backs on labour and recruit for fresh exertions  But few enough are the slumberers now taking their repose  the grand event of the morning has raised a general commotion  by no means subsided with the absence of its immediate cause  from which mighty effects are yet about to spring  Brom the departure of their reigning monarch and queen  mother our amazonian citizens are for the present queenless  What a predicament for a people whose very spring of action  is set in motion as we have seen by loyalty but it is an  exigence to meet which they are well provided Among the  common sixsided cells which compose the mass of building  are perceived some halfdozen oval structures of more than  thrice their size which are occupied as abodes of growing  royalty and within these waxen palaces have been for some  weeks nurtured in different stages of progression towards matu  rity as many young princesses for one of which the vacant  throne is destined Bor which of them is the question which  priority of birth and emergement from one of the cells of state  is now to settle for at present all these quiescent candidates  for sovereignty are swathed in the silken shrouds of their  second or chrysalis stage of being that wherein Bees are  designated by the name of Nymphs With heads turned  towards the royal apartments the queenless subjects anxiously  await the moment which is to supply their craving for a sove  reign They wait long but at length most welcome spectacle  a royal lady perfect in the maturity of her full proportions  issues from one of the royal chambers A loud and joyful  hum proclaims her queen and her subjects are crowding round  to pay their ready homage when lo from another of the  state apartments arrived like herself at Bees and queens  estate and nearly at the selfsame moment comes forth a second  claimant to the regal honours The rivals catch a glimpse of  each other exchange a glance of angry defiance then while the  crowd falls back to permit their meeting rush like shedragons  on one another Head to head chest to chest they strive and  grapple and each has only in dragon sort to bend her tail  and fix her venomed dart and both will fall victims to each  others stings But no at this moment as if seized simul  taneously with panic fear they part and recede from the deadly  and too equal strife  The spectators have hitherto been looking on inactive  though not mute having kept up a ceaseless hum but now  that the royal combatants give way and separate that hum  increases to a perfect uproar and a few individuals darting  from the crowd dare to seize upon the retreating queens and  stay their flight to hang even on their recreant limbs  and hold them back from further retreat as well as from ad  vance But see as if their failing spirits were chafed into  new fury by the indignity thus offered they burst from their  subjects hold and rush back to the encounter Again the  issue hangs suspended but not for long for now one of the  queenly combatants more powerful or more skilful than her  rival rises above her seizes one of her scanty wings and inflicts  on her undefended body a mortal sting She withdraws her  barbed weapon while her wounded competitor falls down  drags her huge length along then struggles and expires  The conquerors victory is complete and now surely she will  rest proudly satisfied with her success in fair and equal combat  But what does she next What means she by approaching  rapidly to the nearest of the royal chambers where still sleeps  unconscious one of the four remaining nymphs of royal  breeding With vindictive fury she tears from its entrance  the silken tapestry by which it is partially defended and now  she thrusts into the aperture her poisoned dart and inflicts on  the helpless occupant a fatal wound Her thirst for rival  blood still rages unabated another hapless nymph and yet  another dies for its assuagement and she ceases not from the  work of murder until her victims and her strength fail together  While the ferocious queen is thus employed what is the  behaviour of her surrounding subjects Do they submit  tamely to the extinction of the royal race Yes and they  do more for though they themselves lay not a sting on the  sacred persons of the young princesses they aid the cruel  queen in the completion of her butchery for no sooner does  she quit each scene of her successive assassinations than drag  ging from the chamber the body she has left they hasten to  hide from view the evidence of her jealous fury  The scene above depicted reads it must be owned exceed  ingly tragic and with such materials for a Play upon the  Passions well may Bees have been made to figure as Dramatis  Personas and have had allotted them to use the words of a  modern writer a whole play to themselves Of this play  we know nothing except that it was written in the reign of  Elizabeth who ought to have been the play writers patron  for what could be more harmonious with her ruling passion than  the part enacted by the queenly Bee made as we presume his  heroine She before whom to allude to a successor was in her  own words to pin up her windingsheet before her face  how would she have borne a rival near her throne  However and as must be by this time pretty evident the  things which would be highly unbecoming among men and  women are exceedingly wellordered among Bees It seems  quite essential to the welfare of a hive to acknowledge only one  sovereign but as on this single sovereign in her capacity of  general mother not only the welfare but the very existence of  the state depends and as over and above no emigration can  take place without a queen to accompany the swarm a surplus  number of royal nymphs is no less requisite to meet contin  gences It will sometimes however happen that notwith  standing such provision a hive is unexpectedly bereft of its  sovereign when no successor is existing to supply her place  How then do the people act Why they do in such a strait  exactly what has been told and what in sober seriousness  we will repeat for lack of a queen readymade they make  one  For the space of several hours grief and consternation reign  in place of the defunct sovereign Then do the murmuring  but not despairing mourners bestir themselves to supply her  place But how are they to do it Can they mould from  their ready material wax a royal effigy and then breathe life  into the image Not so but they can resort for the supply  of their exigence to an expedient almost as miraculous Let  us watch their proceedings in the creation of a queen Why  this work appears only a labour of destruction Surely they  are bereft not only of their sovereign but also of their senses  and in a fit of frenzy are making havoc in the streets of this  wellordered city Several parties are here and there attacking  the sixsided houses hastily pulling down their waxen walls  regardless of the young which lie cradled within Out of  perhaps four or five of these unhappy nurslings all but one  are sacrificed by those who had heretofore been their careful  nurses but for this one still in its infant or grub estate a  changed and brilliant destiny is in store Save for the un  lookedfor accident which has left the throne without an  occupant this lowborn Bee straitly housed and poorly fed  would have left her cell in size and form and colour like the  rest of its working sisterhood and like them would have led  a life of labour but now her body will be expanded her  organs developed her colours brightened her wings and in  stinctive virtues alone being curtailed  The first process of her manufacture is begun already by the  destruction going on around her Her narrow lodging by the  sacrifice of those adjacent is converted into a spacious chamber  allowing full scope for her bodily expansion and soon will  numerous nurses be busy cramming her with that nutritious  stimulating substance called royal jelly Then in due  season in ten days or thereabouts out will come an artificial  sovereign in all respects as good as ever issued from a royal egg  The above curious process of conversion though supposed to  have been known to the ancients was first published by Schirach  a Trench naturalist in his history of La Beine des Abeilles  Although the fact was ascertained by careful experiment its  assertors were for a long time laughed at and even abused in  one case by an opponent who though he saw nothing incre  dible in the conversion of plants into animals deemed it the  height of absurdity that the nature of an animal should admit  of change  Of Bees under different aspects there is yet an infinity to  be told We may look again into the hive but those who  wish to dive deeply into the ways and wonders the proceedings  and policies of its busy inmates must consult the works of  Bee historians Delightful pages some of them have written  reading much like human history only more agreeably because  undefiled by moral blots They tell us it is true that Bees  go to war like human communities that strong Bees rob the  weak like human villains that angry Bees fight single  combats like human duellists that Bees wellfed and vigorous  will kill the old and helpless of their labourers These  are points of character rough and sharp enough it must be  owned but they need not prick us in the reading when we  remember that Bees are but the passive elements of an unerring  instinct  MOTHS AS DESTRUCTIVES  Now busily convened upon the bud  That crowns the genial branch they feast sublime  And spread their muslin canopy around  Pavilioned richer than the proudest kings  The grand army of Mothdestructives is now in all the  activity of a spring campaign According to their local distri  bution these may be considered as attacking us under four  principal divisions each subdivided into numerous companies  One of them is employed on what we may call the out works  our fields and foresttrees a second coming nearer spoliates  and levies contributions on our gardens a third more daring  invades our granaries while a fourth boldest of all attacks  the citadel and makes havoc in our houses When we thus  speak of Moths as destructives we refer of course to the con  suming excesses of their caterpillar youth wherein Butterflies  also before they have cast off their grosser humours play an  auxiliary part but the main body of crawling invaders is made  up of those which will become in due season fliers not of the  day but of the night or evening Of all these it is only the  domestic destroyers of the wardrobe which are generally as  Moths accustomed to be looked on with alarm because it is  with these only and not often with their fellows of the field  that people are accustomed to identify as one the consuming  crawler and the harmless flutterer  To begin now with the first division of our numerous army  those defoliating marauders with whom forest trees and  hedgerows are the chief objects of attack Among the most  formidable invaders of the oak are certain caterpillar broods  whose earliest infant steps are accustomed to be taken over the  surface of a leaf which they traverse in marching order Of  these there are some distinguished regiments often to be seen  late in August drawn up in regular files and in their brilliant  uniforms of scarlet black and white as well as in their mar  shalled array requiring no great effort of imagination to liken  them to Lilliputian soldiery Each of these infant legions in pre  paratory exercise for operations on a grander scale strips off its  rations from the upper surface of the leaf it traverses leaving  all behind it brown and arid while all before is fresh and  verdant perfect image in the compass of an oakleaf of the  progress of a marauding army of a worse description  Our youthful invaders of the forest are not strong enough  to brave an inclement season without shelter No sooner  therefore do the changing hues of autumn begin to threaten  them with failure of their supplies than with instinctive  foresight they begin to prepare cantonments for the winter  and long before the arrival of November we may behold  our oakleaf companies snugly housed in branchsuspended  barracks consisting of hammocks spun by themselves of  thicklywoven silk Quartered in these in social congrega  tion and bidding defiance to howling winds and nipping  frosts which only serve to rock them to repose or numb  them to torpor they pass the season of death and rigour but  with the return of spring the caterpillar army is again on foot  sharpened in appetite but not improved in discipline for  instead of as heretofore marching in files and messing  together on a single leaf they disperse like disbanded and  insubordinate soldiers each to forage on the new and tender  foliage  Yet awhile perhaps towards the beginning of July and  we pass beneath some illfated oaktree on which the legion  has been actively engaged Where now proud monarch of  the woods are thy verdant honours P Where that crown of  royalty which when other leafy coronets are falling around  thee is wont to be only gilded by the suns of autumn and  still held fast often glows the richer even for the blasts of  winter That diadem once accustomed to lord it over the  seasons has been stripped from thy brow by a vile caterpillar  crew But where are the destroyers Aftqr having battened  in this sort upon crowned heads and fattened upon regal  spoils our marauding troops should each by this time have  grown Napoleonlike in figure as in deed And so in their  day they did their black and scarlet uniforms having for  many a time been renewed in order to accommodate their  growing greatness but now their day is over These ruthless  ravagers are nowhere to be seen But what have we here  resting on the shady side of an oaks spoliated trunk A little  creature of surpassing elegance and beauty her body seems  clothed in a garment of softest swans down trimmed at the  bottom by a flounce of golden fur her ample wings of the  same unsullied hue but of more satiny appearance are bor  dered by a corresponding fringe and even her delicate feet  are furred or feathered with white nearly to her toes Her  full black eyes though lacking lustre do not lack beauty and  rising from her head in graceful curves a pair of snowwhite  plumes complete her simple but most elegant attire We  might almost fancy as we look at this most delicate of creatures  that we had surprised by daylight one of the fairy elves fabled  to hold their moonlight revels beneath the oak And truly she  is not more beautiful than innocent a drop of honeydew is  the coarsest nutriment her frame requires if even air suffice  not to support it But what has she in common or what  has she to do with the greedy ruthless strippers of the noble  tree she rests on Everything She has with them a com  mon origin sheis the Goldtail moth and they were the  Goldtail caterpillars of which she once was one and of a  brood of which she will most likely become the parent  We would fain have been able to carry to an end the analogy  between our Insect ravagers of foliage and the human ravagers  of earth but when the latter have been summoned from the  scenes where they have reaped their harvests of devastation  who can picture them as assuming in a higher sphere the  white and spotless robes of innocence There remains but  little more to be said en naturaliste descriptive of the Gold  tail either in its form of destruction or of beauty In the  former however that of caterpillar we shall describe its   black and scarlet uniform 99 with somewhat more preci  sion and for a reason which will presently appear Its body  coat of black velvet is enlivened by two stripes of brilliant  scarlet down the middle of the back a row of white resem  bling embroidery running along each side and again below  these two other scarlet lines The head and sixclawed feet  are shining black the hinder and intermediate legs yellowish  and the whole body beset with tufts of goldbrown hair Now  upon these hairs which we since last May have had good  reason to remember hangs a tale of which Noli me tang ere 99  is the moral Before having by experience learnt it we one  day happened to transpose some of the Goldtail feeders  from a hedge to our collectingbox The said Goldtails in  return transferred to our glove some dozen perhaps of their  defensive hairs which lastly were retransferred unconsciously  to our face and throat Irritation and inflammation were  presently the consequences proved by subsequent experiment  to have proceeded indubitably from this caterpillar cause the  handling of which incautiously or with hands ungloved may  give others as well as ourselves occasion for repentance We  would advise our collecting friends to bear this in recollection  The havoc occasionally wrought by these caterpillars of the  Goldtail and those of the Browntail a closelyallied moth  has been recorded as matter of history Beaumur when  travelling between Tours and Paris in September 1731 found  every oak in possession of one of these devastating legions  the foliage looking parched and embrowned as if by lightning  This was the work of innumerable companies of leafmarching  infantry such as those we have described After spinning and  spending the winter in their warm silken hammocks they re  appeared in the ensuing spring marking their passage through  grove and garden as if with fire and sword So extensive  became the evil and so mighty the alarm that the parliament  of Paris issued an edict for the raising of conscript armies to  exterminate the crawling invaders in other words to compel  the people to go forth and decheniller les arbres a work  perhaps beyond human power but in which they were assisted  if not anticipated by the providential auxiliary of a cold rainy  May Some fifty years later a similar panic from a similar  cause set England in a ferment of alarm The extensive ravages  of the Browntails obtained for them on this occasion the dis  tinction of an historic volume The poor in the vicinity of  London were employed to cut off their webs or hammocks  at a shilling a bushel fourscore of which were said to have  been collected at Clapham in one day and though these  devourers are no consumers either of grass or grain it was  ignorantly supposed that as with the northern armies of  the East famine and pestilence were likely to follow in their  train to avert which calamities public prayers were offered up  Attached to the same division of the caterpillar army there  are certain corps of tiny light infantry whose white encamp  ments are in some seasons conspicuous upon every hedge  in May and June Merciless leafstrippers as they are they  would yet seem to have a touch of compassion in their cruelty  inasmuch as they often clothe in a measure with their silken  tissues the unfortunate branches which they have reduced to  a state of nudity The regiments of Goldtail and Browntail  after a certain season are all as we have seen accustomed to  disband but those which we are now reviewing never break  company at all while wearing their caterpillar uniforms grey  and black or even when caparisoned in chrysalidan armour  of black and gold  Through May and early June they are to be seen within or  beside their silken tabernacles feeding close together in the  form of small grey caterpillars spotted with black after which  they are to be found as chrysalides black and yellow hung  pendant head downwards and side by side to the stalks and  branches most frequently of blackthorn which they have  united to strip bare Each chrysalis is veiled by a thin cocoon  of silk and a web of the same material encloses the whole  company which however is partially discernible through both  In July having then cast off both uniform and armour these  little devastators appear as Ermine Moths with silvery black  besprinkled wings harmless in outward seeming but the gene  rators of a multitude of mighty mischiefs  Leaving wood and hedgerow let us in May or even in April  walk through the garden and observe in what manner the second  division of our destroying army may be there employed Have  these intrusive devourers shown more respect to the queen of  flowers than to the monarch of the woods Not a whit and  see here the proof On almost every rosebud is a bundle of  young leaflets all drawn from their propriety and contrary to  their own expansive inclination bound together usually in a  fan like form by means of a silken tie If we pull asunder  the leaves thus unwillingly united we shall find living within  and upon them the agent of their union a little brown black  headed caterpillart Secure from wind and weather this little  imp here feasts at leisure and nips in the bud many an infant  rose whose cradling leaflets intended for its own protection  only serve to conceal the proceedings of its destroyer  Turning from rose to lilac we find numbers of its leaves  rolled up both cross and lengthwise their return to a natural  position being prevented by silken stays or braces These are  the rollings and weavings of a caterpillar which in due season  will become as its mother was before it a small chocolate  coloured moth like others a provident parent who took  good care to lay her eggs on the leaf best suited for the exercise  of her offsprings ingenuity and appetite  In the kitchen no less than in the flowergarden have  these parent moths been busy at our cost for their families  support Cabbages outwardly skeletons but still sound at  heart attest the presence of caterpillar ravagers but let us  not be hasty in condemnation For once a moth is not at the  bottom at the beginning more properly of the mischief  The maternal ancestor of these spoliators of the leaves of kale  has been no doubt a Cabbage Butterfly and her devouring  brood partaking in a measure of the character of their sun  delighting parent go to work openly on the exterior of the  plant But it is not so with the destructive progeny of that  nighthag moth known in some places as the Old Gentle  woman t which darkly dangerous penetrate and prey on the  very heart of the cabbage In England and particularly in  Wiltshire these caterpillars are reputed to do extensive damage  and in Germany woe to the lovers of sourkrout when this  lover of cabbages has visited the wtagere before them There  whole basketfuls of caterpillars are said in innocent and igno  rant simplicity to be buried alive only to rise living from  the earth for as observed by Roesel a native naturalist one  might as well expect to kill a crab by covering it with sea  water as thus to destroy a caterpillar which always burrows  under ground to change into a chrysalis  Among the destructives of orchard and kitchengarden  there is a race of very common brown Moths yclept the  Lackeys so called from the gaudy colouring of their cater  pillars variegated with stripes of blue black white and  scarlet These which are among the social feeders are in  some seasons most egregious social pests helping themselves  something after the manner of the class they are named from  to extravagant board in return for making a destructive show  The hopvine and the burdock are sometimes seen to droop  their leaves and stalks without any apparent cause The  rational might suppose them fainting under the influence of  summer heat the ignorant imagine them struck by what they  call a blight the fanciful would have declared in days of  greater superstition that they had been exposed to some Ci evil  eye of ghost or witch or goblin and as it happens a ghost  is really at the bottom of the mystery for a Ghost Moth in its  caterpillar shape is gnawing unseen at the root of the insect  haunted plant This is the White Ghost which often in the  shades of evening flits across our path chased by a dark pur  suing demon in the form of a bat who knows well enough  that for him the Ghost Moth is no airy shape but a substan  tial reality if not of flesh and blood of juices and muscles  which if happily attained will afford him a delicious supper  Our gooseberries and currants plums pears apples apri  cots and grapes are all both in foliage and in fruit more or  less subject to insect mischiefs of which parent Moths have  been the fertile sources  Quitting the garden for the homestead and the house we  now come to the third and fourth divisions of our consuming  host the domestic invaders of our granaries garments and  goodnature These belong chiefly to a family of tiny Moths  called Tinea distinguished as much for the ingenious formation  of their own habitations or clothing as for the ravages they  are accustomed to commit within and upon ours There is a  certain member of this Tinea family one of the smallest of  the crew which delights to play her pranks in the farmers  granary She there deposits perhaps a score of eggs on a  corn of wheat or of barley and no sooner are the caterpillar  mischiefs hatched than they disperse each choosing for himself  a single grain to be at once his habitation and his hoard  Gnawing an entrance scarce bigger than a pinhole the little  devourer takes possession revels in plenty and security and  towards autumn when his stock of flour is exhausted escapes  from the pinch of famine and the nip of frost into the gentle  arms of sleep having previously taken care to convert the  hollowed grain into a soft warm dormitory tapestried with  silk There in the form of chrysalis he slumbers through  the winter to burst forth with the spring an image of his  silver winged parent  We have just said that this tiny robber enters his barley  corn through a hole no bigger than that caused by a pin too  small therefore to afford egress to anything in the shape of a  Moth unless assumed by a veritable Fairy but this seeming  difficulty is entirely removed by one of those admirable con  trivances instinctive and prospective which are so frequently  met with in insect economy The last act of the little caterpillar  before it betakes itself to its winters nap is to shape with its  jaws a halfcut door way in the skin of the hollow grain which  though on the outside appearing whole presently gives way  when pushed from within for the exit of the newly winged Moth  Of the same Tinea family but distinguished from the Grain  Moths by their appetite for animal instead of vegetable food  are the wellknown Clothes Moths lovers of fur wool  tapestry and dried insect specimens Most people are well  enough acquainted to then cost with the destructive opera  tions of these wardrobe pests but some possibly may be  ignorant that muffs and silks and stuffs afford food not only  clothes moth  for their appetite but also for their constructive skill the little  marauders being accustomed to make for themselves out of  these materials what we may designate either habitations  or clothing movable tents or closely fitting bodycoats  Marauders though they be yet they can scarcely be called  invaders since individually they can assert a better claim  than that of conquest to the territory they lay waste for they  were born caterpillars on the property and therefore inherit  it in right of their ladymother Moth that flitting felon  who through crevice or keyhole intruded her fairy like form  and founded her hidden settlement This mode and manner  of its commencement deserves especial notice as contradicting  completely the notion still we believe partially entertained  that Moths are selfengendered in the fabrics they infest As  this is not the fact we have only to enwrap our furry treasures  carefully in linen so as to exclude all possible entrance to the  mother Moth and we never need fear the presence of her  caterpillar offspring  We open a muffbox drawer or wardrobe and first behold  with horror the winged offender or offenders we buffet them  in appeasement of our anger and vexation but if we do our  worst to them the worst of the mischief lurks behind and  must be nipped in the egg or in the caterpillar which strong in  the protection of the aforesaid bodycoat has set at nought our  impotent artillery of fumes brimstone camphor bay or laurel  Here we have one of the varlets in his self wrought case  Let us look and examine how he has contrived to make it  The foundation of his fabric is formed of silk of his own  spinning into which he has thickly interwoven portions of  fur so as to make himself a sort of muff at the expense of  ours taking for his purpose the longer and stiffer hairs leaving  for food the softest and shortest Upon this his furry pasture  as soon as his covering is completed and not before he  begins to regale at leisure an opening being left for the  protrusion of his head at one end of his movable encasing  garment He would rather die of hunger than feed uncovered  As its inmate or wearer fattens the case would become of  course too small but to meet this growing evil he lengthens  it by working in fresh hairs at each end at the same time  widening it by the insertion of pieces on each side By moving  these little tailors and setting them to work on various stuffs  we can cause them to make up regularly striped coats of many  colours  The Moth caterpillars of this family which attack wool  tapestry and the treasures of the cabinet go to work much in  the above manner with the different materials provided ready  to their mouths by the prospective care of their mothers  Those of the cabinet scruple not to make free with the wings  of their defunct fellowinsects cutting and clipping them into  convenient pieces for the shaping and strengthening of their  own bodycoats Another little destructive who is apt to make herself more  free than welcome within the precincts of our dwellings is  called the Tabby for what reason we cannot exactly tell  These Moths settle in our libraries and larders and their  numerous families are born and nurtured just also as it may  happen upon books or butter Their taste when literary is  however like that of many other bibliomaniacs somewhat  superficial having reference rather to the leather than the  language the binding rather than the body of the works is  the object of their esteem A Moth caterpillar of another  description dives however somewhat deeper into learned lore  and devouring the page adorned by mildew and blackletter  prizes books in proportion to their mouldiness rather than  their merit  Our Moth destructives have now been traced home to our  houses and our cabinets to the clothing of our bodies and the  works of our hands even to the productions of our brains  and by adopting them as emblems we may bring them closer  still What better than the tribe of domestic Moths can  serve for images of those evil principles which taking pos  session we scarce know when or how fret and defile the robes  of innocence And who of us alas ever guards so closely  the chinks and crevices of the moral wardrobe as not to give  admission to a few or many of this destructive race  Aglossa pinguinalis  The wealth and territories of the noble house of A  had for upwards of a century been gradually wasting away  In proportion as these diminished the Romancatholic chapel  attached to the family castle had declined from its ancient  splendour and on the earldom passing for one generation  into a Protestant branch it was permitted to reach the verge of  complete ruin  But behold now the holy edifice under process of restora  tion Where the voices of choristers once arose where the  mouldering rubbish lately fell there hammers are descending  Where the organ once pealed where the screechowl lately  hooted there masons are busy with the mallet and the chisel  Where clouds of incense were once rolling where the night  dews lately fell there whiffs of tobacco are rising through the  dilapidated roof A new order of things is at hand monu  mental knights whose spurs have been cut off by the scythe of  time are being newly invested by the aid of the sculptors  chisel whilst dames of chaste cold marble are receiving like  embellishment from Carpue an restorers of stone noses  But what is the magic power at whose bidding all these  wonders of renovation are produced The wizard is named  Wealth but from whence and in what shape has he been  evoked Has he arisen from the bowels of Lord A  wasted property in shape of a spirit of the mine Has he  descended heralded by the mockery of sable trappings from  some rich but barren branch collateral Or has the present  Earl realized the golden dream of an alchemising ancestor and  extracted the powerful spirit from the fumes of the crucible  In neither of these shapes and from neither of these sources  has arisen the magician who is working such changes in the  house of A The giant power has appeared as a Slave of  the Ring and has been evoked by a ceremony at the desecrated  altar The noble inheritor of the late Lord A s poverty  has intermarried with the ignoble heiress of a Lancashire  cottonspinner and this is why the old chapel is putting on  its new garment  It is evening The chapelrestorers whose work is well  nigh accomplished have all departed for the night and the  moon is looking through the great eastern window on the  scene of restoration on the renovated tombs the reblazoned  hatchments the repolished carvings the renewed hangings  and proudly conspicuous over all on a new banner which had  been raised that morning to replace an old one of which time  damp and moths had only left a tattered remnant  What a looking up of downcast fortunes is displayed and  typified in that coat of arms fresh from the hands of an  heraldic tailor Free from obscuring clouds that brilliant  Azure like a bright blue sky betokens and gives promise of  pleasant weather that fiery Gules tells of resuscitated splen  dours rising Phoenixlike from the ashes of the old even that  deepdyed S able shadows forth garments of lustrous newness  in lieu of faded rust but most of all significant is that re  gilded Or an actual emblem of the unseen agency which has  wrought these renovating changes  All is silent amidst these refurbished vanities and whited  sepulchres now more deathlike than before their outward re  suscitation for during its process the life which had been  harboured in this neighbourhood of mortality had become  extinguished or dislodged The owls had been driven from the  ivy the swallows from the roof without the bats from the  roof within the bloated spiders from the mildewed walls  the churchyard beetle and the deathwatch from the pave  ments and the wainscot It was only in the fragments of the  ancient banner cast down upon the flagstones just beneath  the new that any token of life remained Two Moths yet lin  gered herein the only two which had not been put to flight  by the noise and stir of renovation As the destructive pair  by turns glided or flitted over the dusty dishonoured relics   their silvery wings glancing in the moonlight they acquired  in the absence of all other visible existences an importance  not their own and in the eye of superstition might have  seemed as spirits burst from the tombs around spirits of the  brave who had often upreared that banner in its days of pride  and were now risen in sorrow and in anger to bewail its  downfall  Moths or mothlike spirits be they what they might  the two companions flitted now here now there then meet  ing laid their plumed heads together and commenced in  moth language a parley which we shall thus interpret   Sister cried one of them who had just descended on the  old banner from a short exploratory flight towards the new   why art thou thus wilfully determined on keeping to our ruined  habitation Tis a hard necessity I acknowledge to desert  this wasted fabric in which our honourable ancestors were  born and died but it no longer affords us maintenance be  coming our exalted rank and for the good of my descendants  I have resolved to establish myself up yonder and here she  looked towards the new banner where our consequence will  be properly kept up i Consequence maintenance cried  the other scornfully tossing her plumes let my family  perish rather than subsist on the vulgar mongrel texture of  that painted gewgaw Deserting this fabric of unmingled  silk pure even to its last attenuated thread shall we stoop to  provide support for our future progeny on a newfangled tissue  basely intermingled with cotton yarn I marvel at thy  degenerate vanity ennobled by my presence these ruins how  ever far decayed retain their pristine grandeur and so long  as one particle remains upon another here do I abide   And that will be sister returned the other until tomor  rows dawn when you and it together will be trampled into  dust But do as you like best and so farewell for ever  unless before too late thou seest thy folly So saying the  speaker flew up and settled upon the new standard  Next morning when the workmen returning to the chapel  proceeded to sweep away the trampled tatters of the old  Banner they dislodged its sole remaining occupant and  the proud and highborn Moth after a few irresolute flutters  joined her less pretending sister  The ruin of the new Banner forthwith commenced and so  it soon proved with the house of A Strengthened for  awhile by admixture of cotton yarn and reburnished by plebeian  gold that noble line soon began to exhibit symptoms of decay  for with it there still continued to exist the old consuming  principles pride of birth and pride of show which are repre  sented by the Moths of the Banners   A pond s a mirrored world where strong on weak  Cunning on simple prey   Where ignorance is bliss Tis folly to be wise is an Epi  curean maxim which on a superficial view may seem applicable  not only to a knowledge of events wherein its truth may in  some measure be allowed but also to a knowledge of things  wherein it must in all cases be strenuously denied It is  nevertheless certain that a knowledge of many little things  which in their aggregate and due improvement make up  wisdom though it usually augments may in some instances  tend to damp our pleasure even that quiet bliss so pure  and innocent derived from contemplation of the world of  nature It is doubtless at times more agreeable to glide  indolently over the surface of things in the shallow bark of  ignorance than to explore their depths in the divingbell of  research This is a reason amongst others why the pleasures  of childhood and sometimes those also of the superficial and  uneducated are so vivid and unalloyed but though to the  former we look back with a sigh and are now and then  tempted to regard the latter with a feeling almost akin to envy  few of us would purchase them at the price of a single pearl  of mental acquisition  As we have before observed nothing can have a greater  general tendency to augment our enjoyment of the country  than the study of Entomology yet one day as has happened  occasionally before our little learning on the subject of insects  served to cast a shade though it was but a passing one over  the cheerful feelings inspired by early spring We were out  in the morning while the dews yet hung heavy in the shade a  few remaining drops still brightly twinkling in the sun The  day was as fresh as the year and the face of nature as gay in  her renovated youth as if never embrowned by nigh six thousand  summer suns or pinched and wrinkled by as many winter frosts  Leaving the beaten footpath across the fields we pursued over  the grass a little private track of our own making towards an  old willow pollard which from long acquaintance and we be  lieve sole discovery and appropriation of certain of its venerable  charms we considered to the full as much our own property as  its legal owners To him it is nothing probably but a hollow  worthless stump to us it is a perfect treasurehouse more  full a thousand times in its mouldering decay than it was in  its solid strength The arm of lightning shivering picturesquely  its highest branch has struck it into coin for the painters  mint but it is the gentler hand of Time which has moulded  it for us into a casket and prepared it for the reception of  living treasures aurelia of Moth or grub of Beetle en  sconced beneath the case of rotten wood and bulging bark or  packed in its soft lining the vegetable mould which fills the  hollow of the trunk But though the season was favourable  we were not in search of insects in the shape of chrysalis or  any other Our trowel and collecting box were left at home  for we had come out solely for a walk and with intent to  enjoy ourselves as unreflectively as the giddiest flutterer of the  tribe just wakened into life It was not then our hobby  which carried us this time to the willow neither was it alto  gether habit but this our favourite tree having grown old  without having withal grown crabbed still offered to its  visitors besides a pleasant shade a comfortable seat formed  by one of the knobby excrescences which bulged from the  trunk at a convenient distance from the ground It presented  them besides in the clear dark pond it overshadowed with a  lookingglass that faithful mirror which from sapling youth  to stricken age had reflected its own form and over which  like an aged coquette it had hung closer and seemingly the  more enamoured as its years advanced Of the above accom  modations of those at least which afforded rest and shade we  were disposed that morning to avail ourselves and we sat  down not to reflect unless it were on the happiness around  us but simply to feel to give ourselves up as passive reci  pients to all the fresh and sweet peaceful and exhilarating  influences of the hour  Was there a single object within view or a single sound  within hearing that could possibly awaken one discordant  emotion The sheep in an adjoining field were bleating of peace  and goodfellowship the turtle was repeating her lay of love  and the shivering note of the little willow wren with a thou  sand others took up the tale Pleasure was on the wing in a  throng of insect forms and humming her delight in a chorus  of insect voices Hope was in the season happiness appa  rently in everything and yet as we sat and looked down  upon the smooth surface of the waters itself an image of  bright tranquillity thoughts of violence cruelty and de  struction took sudden and forcible possession of our mind  Such a confession unexplained might suffice to convict us  of something much amiss in that hidden receptacle the heart  something sadly at variance with all the smiling things around  That thus it has often been we may not alas deny but the  fault on the present occasion lay we verily believe less with  heart than head with that specific organ which led us first to  the pursuit of Entomology for it so happened that certain  grains of knowledge picked up therein had now insinuated  themselves between the hitherto smooth surface of our mind  and the shining face of outward nature hindering thus their  perfect union Our eyes as we have said were fixed upon  the water which to the cursory observer presented nothing  but a picture of still life of the old willow and the blue sky  To another examining more closely the mirrored landscape was  not without its moving objects and these whimsically displaced  as well as inverted a swallow appearing ever and anon to dip  its wing in the clouds or foliage while here and there a fish  seemed leaping from the sky An eye yet more attentive  might also have discerned that the surface of the water was  traversed by a multitude of queer dark little Insects with  straight lanky bodies and angular limbs gliding about in all  directions Skimming the glassy mirror like these but in  shape their very antipodes were certain other little active  bodies oval and convex as an egg bluishblack and polished  as a steel corslet now collected in groups appearing by twos  and threes to embrace each other then starting off singly as if  pricked by contact now motionless then whirling swiftly  round and round seeming absolutely tipsy with their native  element or giddy with the joy of existence Other creatures  of curious boatlike form almost thrice as big as the last were  cutting the water with their oars these also looked as if they  had drunk but three times deeper of an intoxicating draught  for oblivions apparently of the important distinction between  head and heels with the latter upwards and the former im  mersed they now hung as it were suspended in the water  then darted off with the celerity of a sixoared cutter All  these living objects as they met the eye were in perfect  harmony with the surrounding scene of peace What then  could we discern amiss in the pond and its joyous occupants  Actually we saw little more than what we have attempted to  describe but our smattering of knowledge concerning the  purposes and practices of Waterinsects served to throw a dark  shade of cruelty and violence on the one hand of suffering  and privation on the other over the moving picture of the pond  We knew that the Insect World of waters was emphatically  a world of destructiveness and that each of the above described  creatures wheeling about so merrily on the ponds surface  was in pursuit indeed of pleasure but of pleasure derived  chiefly from the chase of living prey or the cannibal delight  of devouring it Neither on the surface only but down to its  lowest depths the pond was teeming with a carnivorous multi  tude some for Insects of prodigious size and of uncouth  and frightful shapes others of almost invisible minuteness  but all alike busy and happy in cutting off the happiness of  their fellows Well there was nothing in this greatly dis  cordant with the general order of things natural and moral  but for this very reason the train of thinking it suggested  soon brought disturbance to that sensation of peacefulness  which all besides encouraged and we rose from our willow chair  almost wishing that we had known nothing of Entomology  Yet that was a foolish wish sprung of a foolish feeling  such as all feelings are which have the slightest tendency to  make us dissatisfied with the regulations of Divine Wisdom  however they may seem to jar upon what we are pleased to  consider our finer sensibilities It is certainly no pleasant  reflection that innumerable tribes of earth and sea and air  ourselves included live by the death of others the less  therefore we dwell upon it the better especially with any view  to explanation of a fact which stands in intimate connection  with the origin of evil that dark mystery which we are never  likely to penetrate except in the light of heaven When  however the subject of mutual destruction does by accident  come across our mind or our path a few reconciling thoughts  on it may be safely sought for and readily found  To apply them only to our proper subject the Insect Carni  von of the waters as Destroyers we may subdue our repug  nance to them by the thought that there is no guilt in their  destructiveness as Destroyed we may keep our pity for  them in wholesome check by believing that there is little  suffering in their destruction that with the tenants of our  little deep beneath the willow it may be as a pious and en  lightened writer has supposed it with the inhabitants of the  great deep of ocean Pain says our author speaking of  fishes has but little or brief residence among them for  even when absorbed by the larger ones for nutriment they are  swallowed without laceration and entombed in darkness and  death before they are well conscious of their change of situa  tion Death therefore is to them what the Druids in their  mythological theories sang it to be to man  A change which can hut for a moment last  A point between the future and the past  By the same writer it is added in a note that the Jewish  Rabbins estimated so highly the general comfort of fish exist  ence that one of them in describing their doctrine of the  transmigration of souls inculcates that those of the righteous  whose conversation is with the Lord and who only need a  purification go into fish This and other like wild imagina  tions may have originated partly in the desire to account for  and reconcile with our ideas of justice the suffering in any  sort of the harmless tribes in consequence of their furnishing  support to the carnivorous The deaths of the former by  violence instead of being viewed as a condition of their being  have been sometimes regarded in the light of punishment and  since such could not be inflicted justly on oteer than a respon  sible agent the forms of brutes have been assigned to human  spirits in a state of penalty or purgation Others have gone  further and adopted from the Jesuit Bather Bougeaut a  notion that all animals save the human are animated by evil  spirits or devils thus retained till the general judgment in  ignominious fleshy prisons and compelled meanwhile to be  conducive to mans use and pleasure This as they would  have it gives a satisfactory solution of the carnivorous pro  pensities of some the seemingly undeserved and needlessly  inflicted sufferings of others as well as of the evident proofs  of reasoning mind as distinguished from instinct observable  in every class of the brute creation from the halfreasoning  elephant to the sociallycommunicating ant In answer to  one of the objections against his theory that of the delight  taken by many persons of sense and religion in domestic beasts  and birds the Father adds What care we whether it be a  devil or any other creature that amuses us The thought of  it far from shocking pleases me mightily and I with grati  tude admire the goodness of the Creator who gave me so  many little imps to serve and entertain me Herein we  confess that we are no admirers of the worthy Jesuits taste  any more than a proselyte to his doctrine Its refutation may  be read in the loving eye of our faithful dog and heard in the  greeting chirp of our pet canary it is warbled by the nightin  gale cooed by the dove and hummed by the insect voices  which fill the summer air with life and gladness  To return now to our own Insect Devils of the pond  with whom having already shown up their evil propensities  there is no harm in making a little farther acquaintance  First for those black lanky looking creatures gliding about  the waters surface Of these our pond as most others  affords two varieties both of a spare and slender make but  one so delicately formed that even its body is scarcely thicker  than a line This line is broken however by two prominent  hemispheric eyes which though set really in the pigmys mons  trously long head appear to be in the middle of his slender  body He is usually wingless or with only short parallel  elytra This is the Hydrometa stay norum or Water Measurer  a common frequenter from March to August of every ditch as  well as pond where he glides about to murder the innocent  The fellowdestroyer by which this is usually accompanied  is a bird of the same dark feather only considerably more  bulky and furnished with closesetting wings He rows him  self merrily along by his hinder feet the sides of his body  being rendered impervious to water by a coat of silvery hairs  Somewhat resembling him in habits and in form though with a  body far less lean and long and with its darker hues enlivened  by red and white is another gliding or rowing destructive  completing the fatal three which insects themselves are  for ever cutting short the slender threads of insect life It was  not this morning visible on the willow pond and though we  have at times observed it on still waters it usually prefers to  buffet the running stream to glide not with but against the  current This is known to naturalists as the Velia rivulorum  A word now for that little whirling devil which albeit  black in hue is of less satanic seeming than the above for in  place of long rigid limbs and angular movements he displays  in liis circular gyrations and oval form something of beauty  in his polished corslet something of brightness and in his  social sportiveness something of good fellowship He and  his merry mates not the less destroyers are the little Whirl  wigs those bluishblack diamondlike Beetles which few can  have failed to notice whirling about on every pool Their  playful evolutions would seem however but a passetemps in  intervals of sterner business that of putting a full and fatal  stop to the sports of other waterrevellers weaker than them  selves  That topsyturvy imp of darkness which in proportion to  its superior magnitude creates yet greater ravages among his  fellows of the flood those before named included is the Water  Boatman t Swimming on his back legs upwards tail touching  the surface head inclined downwards he waits motionless on  the lookout for prey till on the least alarm he rows off with  infinite speed by help of the hairy fringe with which his hinder  feet are thickly bordered As well as with oars our boatman  is provided with wings useless in water but serving in case  of drought and failure in consequence of his native element  as a means of transport to some new scene of violence  But these which appear upon the surface are only a few  and not the most terrible amongst the devourers of pond and  streamlet for gliding through the depths below or lurking  crocodilelike within the mud or waterweeds a multitude of  fierce and frightful insects some in a state of maturity others  in progressive stages live solely by destruction One of these is  the Water Scorpion Stretching out its long lobsterlike fore  arms which are terminated each by a sharp claw serving the  purpose of a hand it seizes and holds fast its prey which it  then pierces with its sharp beak or proboscis a pointed hol  low weapon serving the further purpose of sucking the juices  of its struggling victim So thoroughly savage is the nature  of this creature that he would seem to destroy for destroying  sake and it is related by Kirby that one of them put into a  basin with several tadpoles killed all and ate none  The prevailing hue of this insect murderer is gloomy as his  trade his head shoulders limbs and wingcases being of a  blackishbrown hardly distinguishable from the mud in which  he loves to lurk but when his wings are expanded they dis  play also in unison with his occupation a bloodred body  terminated by a forked tail It is only in the gloom of evening  twilight that he creeps from his native element to hide within  the dark covert of the waterweeds or thence rising to cut  through the night air in search of some new abode Notwith  standing the capacity of its carnivorous maw this creature is  remarkable for the excessive flatness of its body  All the aquatic cannibals above named are insects in the  last or adult stage of their existence but the two very remark  able destroyers we shall now describe have yet to put oil other  and more perfect forms although their carnivorous capabilities  are fully developed A common inhabitant of ponds or of the  mud at their bottoms is an uglylooking animal with a light  brown wingless body and six legs having the air and movements  of a little reptile more than of an insect This creature has a  face or to speak more correctly a physiognomic appendage to  behold the like of which on a larger scale and mounted on the  shoulders of a man would suffice Medusalike to turn flesh  and blood to stone Emboldened however by his want of bulk  let us look at this monster in miniature as he works death for  his living at the bottom of a pond or if that be difficult at  the bottom of a basin furnished with pondwater mud and  proper prey It needs hardly however be observed that the  sight of killing in what form soever ought not to be pleasant  and is not profitable hardly to be sought for even for the  sake of the curious machinery and modus operandi of our  insect butcher At all events our younger readers would do  well to rest satisfied with the description of his murderous  mechanism and choose more agreeable subjects for their  practical observations Well his great projecting eyes always  on the watch for something eager to devour have elected a  chosen victim With catlike stealth he crawls towards it  Now he is close upon his prey and his next movement will  surely be to seize and grasp it with the foremost pair of his  hairy legs But what now Surely a mask is falling from  the caitiffs face Yes a veritable mask which has hidden  hitherto both from ns and from his victim the grimmest half  of his grim visage He has dropped his vizard but not  entirely for it still hangs pendent from his chin And now  do we see aright the mask as if touched by the wand of  Harlequin assumes another shape it has changed into a sort  of toothed and jointed trap which opens then closes on its  prey an unlucky tiny tadpole which is brought wriggling  into convenient reach of the jaws ready to receive him But  this traplike mask is so curious a machine and so dissimilar  to ought besides that we must borrow a description of it  more explanatory than our own   Conceive your under lip to be horny instead of fleshy  and to be elongated perpendicularly downwards so as to wrap  over your chin and extend to its bottom that this elongation  is there expanded into a triangular convex plate attached to it  by a joint so as to bend upwards again and fold over the face  as high as the nose concealing not only the chin and the  firstmentioned elongation but the mouth and part of the  cheeks conceive moreover that to the end of this lastmen  tioned plate are fixed two other convex ones so broad as to  cover the nose and temples that these can open at pleasure  transversely like a pair of jaws so as to expose the nose and  mouth and that their inner edges where they meet are cut into  numerous short teeth or spines or armed with one or more  sharp claws you will then have as accurate an idea as my  powers of description can give of the strange conformation of  the under lip in the larvae of these insects which conceals the  mouth and face precisely as I have supposed a similar con  struction of your lip would do yours When at rest this mask  applies close to and covers the face when they would make  use of it they unfold it like an arm catch the prey at which  they aim by means of the mandib aliform plates and then  partly refold it so as to hold the prey to the mouth in the  most convenient position for operation of the two pair of jaws  with which they are provided Reaumur proposes jokingly  the adoption by masqueraders of some such physiognomic  apparatus wherewith to astonish the Demoiselles andfwin  their admiring horror by putting it into devouring action at the  suppertable  Let us now leave our crawling masked assassin to wallow in  mud and murder at the bottom of his pond and delight our  eyes by looking at an insect of surpassing brilliancy and beauty  disporting on the wing above the water Its graceful shape  brilliant colours and glittering gauzy wings have won it  from the gallant Drench the appellation of Demoiselle Among  ourselves it is known better by the names of Horsestinger and  DragonDly The first is a misnomer because to horses it is  entirely harmless but amongst the insect crew it is a veritable  dragon to the full as fierce and cruel as our murderer in the  mask No wonder for it is his very self one at least of  his very kind He has laid aside his mask and therewith his  grub estate but retains as a perfected and brilliant Ply the  very same propensities as when an unsightly crawler propen  sities exercised now in the devouring of Butterflies in air  instead of Tadpoles in water  The archfiend with which we shall close our abridged list  of Water Devils is the British HydropTiilus the devil par ex  cellence of the solar microscope and of exhibitions a species  of WaterBeetle in its first or larva stage of being This  creature exceeds perhaps all its carnivorous fellows in size  measuring when at maturity an inch and a half in courage  as attacking even small fish and other animals larger than  itself in ferocity and in the possession of destructive weapons  powerful remarkably numerous and singularly adapted to  their designed purpose Broods of these murderers have  been passing the winter in embryo that is in the egg  enwrapped like innocents in silken coverlets or to speak more  correctly in silken balls suspended cradlelike to the stems of  submerged waterweeds These are now however detached  from their supports and may be seen floating on the surface of  stagnant pools exposed to the genial influence of the sun By  this if not already they will be soon awakened into life when  their first employment will be to gnaw a hole in their nests  whence they will descend to the bottom of the water each a  walking and swimming little animal with six legs a set of hairy  finlike appendages and a biforked tail But most conspi  cuous and notable of all its appurtenances are those which arm  the head the large strong jaws curved and pointed opening and  shutting like a pair of forceps with an apparatus of other instru  ments smaller and finer to assist in piercing tearing masti  cating and sucking the juices of its victims which comprise as  the infant destroyer advances to maturity almost every aquatic  insect within reach and in failure of these the brethren of one  common nest will turn their fangs upon each other On a fine  sunny day these insect sharks arise to the surface of the water  where they delight to bask If watched they remain motion  less with their jaws extended and if a stick be presented to  them they will seize it and will sometimes it is said permit  themselves to be cut to pieces rather than relinquish their hold  After the completion of its life as a larva the Hydrophilm  immures itself in a cell of its own formation near the waters  edge and after passing through the next stage of pupa or  chrysalis emerges a perfect Beetle In this form it is some  times found by day sitting on plants beside the water which  with the gloomy habits of its tribe it deserts for the air only  by night This creature of darkness and ferocity or one  closely allied to it is said when arrived at maturity to out  grow its carnivorous propensities and in lieu of animal and  living prey to content itself when a Beetle with the vegetable  growth of ponds and ditches t  For fuller description of this insect see Microscopic Cabinet Goring and  Pritchard  We have dwelt perhaps too long on the doings of these  Waterdevils and now dismiss them with the reconciling  thought that the world will forsake in maturity every savage  propensity natural and moral The prophecies of Holy Writ  give abundant assurance that when wars and vices depart  from among mankind the predatory system will also cease  within the animal kingdom The wolf shall dwell with the  lamb and the leopard shall lie down with the kid And  that this will be accomplished even to the letter we do not  the less believe because we cannot comprehend in what manner  Then may regenerate man be permitted to bring a new life of  peacefulness into the worlds within worlds of animated nature  Then may some drops of humanizing gentleness fall even into  that little world of waters over whose deeds of cruelty now  droops our favourite willow  BUTTERFLIES IN GENERAL   What more felicitie can fall to creature  Than to enjoy delight with libertie  And to be lord of all the workes of nature  To reigne in the aire from thearthe to highest skye  To feed on flowers and weedes of glorious feature  Wordsworth has apostrophized a Butterfly as Historian of  his infancy and thousands must have felt with the poet  that at sight of Butterflies the events of childhood have come  fresh to memory and they have seemed to look again upon  the pages of opening life those sunny pages which the blue  and crimson gold and silver of the Butterflys wing have  helped so often to illuminate In return for having thus  assisted to chronicle our own brightest days we are about to  give a sketch of Butterflies in general and of their prevailing  characteristics with notices of such incidents as happen nearly  alike to all We thought once indeed of selecting some  certain individual from this family of distinguished flutterers  with the view of making it the subject of a biographical notice  Bor instance t The Life Court and Times of a Purple Em  peror or The Memoirs and Correspondence of a Painted  Lady would have sounded well enough but where in the  life of a Butterfly should we have found the highly seasoned  requisites for pleasing public taste those buried and resus  citated scandals those unblushing falsehoods covered or dis  guised by rouge and rank which make up the greater portion  of royal and noble biography But setting these aside what  other materials it may be inquired could be supplied to the  manufacturer of Memoirs by the life of an idle Butterfly  Abundance we reply an ample sufficiency of mingled yarn  for the weaving of a tissue quite as durable to say nothing of  beauty as those which are spun daily out of lives as trifling  and much more uneventful Sunshine and shade love and  war accidents by flood and field hairbreadth escapes from  flying fireeyed dragons these and numberless vicissitudes  varied as their manycoloured pinions mark and to them  may seemingly extend to years the span of days or weeks  allotted to our glorious flutterers  Little perhaps did the author of our opening motto little  the poet who declares that   From flower to flower on balmy gales to fly  Is all they have to do beneath the radiant sky  seem to have thought upon the manifold changes and chances  of papilionaceous life Why then did we not edit the Life of  a Butterfly Bor the simple reason that being more scrupu  lous than some of our editorial contemporaries we did not  like to represent as individual experiences incidents which  might and daily do occur to Butterflies in general but which  we could not vouch for as having actually happened to the  subject of our Memoir Therefore until we are enabled by  help of wings to attend the Purple Emperor in his progresses  through air and are sufficiently versed in the antennal language  as carried on by touch and signal to become a spy upon the  Painted Lady in her hours of supposed privacy and until from  our knowledge of her mode of writing as inscribed on leaves  we are enabled to fathom the secrets of her correspondence  until then we must suspend the contemplated work to which  at present we confess ourselves incompetent  We shall be content in the meanwhile to give the history  of Butterflies in general as it has been noted down and re  corded not in one but in numerous individuals of the race  Let it not however be imagined that the history of all will  serve for that of one or that of one for all There are among  them according to their various tribes and families grand  distinctions not only of dress but of manners also besides  which every individual has we doubt not a character of its  own  Thoughts on Butterflies always bring with them thoughts  on flowers We have viewed them already in some of their  mutual relations but under this their combined aspect they  are both so doubly pleasant to look upon that we must trace  here a few of their corresponding features some of them  perhaps for a second time Flowers seem as it were to  impart a portion of their own characteristics to all things that  frequent them This is peculiarly exemplified in the Butterfly  which must be regarded par excellence as the Insect of  Flowers and a Flowerlike Insect gay and innocent made  after a floral pattern and coloured after floral hues But even  with the insect families which are usually dark and repulsive  that for instance of Cockroaches which are for the most part  black or brown the few species which resort to flowers are  gaily coloured What a contrast also between the dark loath  some indoor Spider and their prettily painted green and red  and white and yellow brethren of the field and garden which  seek their prey among the flowers while more striking still is  the difference between the wingless disgusting plague of cities  and the elegantly formed brightly coloured winged Bugs  which are common frequenters of the parterre Whether this  be imputed to the effect of light or assigned poetically to  the breathing influence of a flowery atmosphere and the ten  dency of all things to produce their similitudes there lies  beneath the natural fact a moral analogy of application to  ourselves  Let us quote to this effect from the Herbal of a quaint old  writer on the influence of flowers Through their beauty and  variety of colour and exquisite forme they do bring to a liberal  and gentle minde the remembrance of honestie comelinesse  and all kinds of virtues for it would be an unseemly thing  as a certain wise man saith for him that doth look upon and  handle faire and beautiful things and who frequenteth and is  conversant in faire and beautiful places to have his mind not  faire alsoe  However few may thus read their moral and open their  hearts for the reception of its sweetness we might almost say  that all but life haters love flowers and for the same reasons  nearly all though haters of Insects in general love Butterflies  We almost indeed seem to look upon them as animated  members of the floral kingdom and regard them much in like  manner according to the progressive stages of our lives In  childhood we long for and pursue them in youth we poetize  them in manhood scarcely heed them in age begin to  find in them perhaps alas for the first time sermons of  warning or emblems of hope The following with other  beautiful lines from an American poet were written upon  Flowers but with the substitution of only a single word do  they not apply precisely unto Butterflies which like them are  wont to   expand their light and soullike wings  Teaching us by most persuasive reasons  How akin they are to human things  And with childlike credulous affection  We behold those tender wings expand  Emblems of our own great resurrection  Emblems of the bright and better land  See Frontispiece  But it is not a mere poetic much less a fanciful analogy  which links the Butterfly by a thousand golden chains with  the loveliest productions of the vegetable world The leaf  and the Caterpillar the flower and the Butterfly seem as it  has been said made for each other though we must certainly  admit that the plant would to all appearance do much better  without the insect than the insect without the plant which  furnishes the Caterpillar with sustenance and the Butterfly  with a velvet cushion for repose or a nectared cup for  refreshment  Independently of this bond of use more mutual perhaps  than we are at present able to discern there has been traced  by naturalists an intimate analogy of states and developments  between the Lepidopterous Insect and the perfect vegetable  The Caterpillar disclosed from the egg encases in its various  skins the gradually expanding form of the future Butterfly  as the plant burst from the seed or bulb encloses in its  successive integuments of root stalk and floral leaves the  flower and fruit in process of formation The chrysalis that  shroud or cover which at once protects and imprisons the  winged creature it encloses finds its correspondence in the  defensive calyx which enwraps the delicate corolla Both burst  from their envelopes in perfect form the Insect to die  the flower to fade soon after having provided for the con  tinuance of their kind  In the habits no less than in the structure of the Butterfly  and the flower there is observable no slight degree of corres  pondence In the gloom of night or of cloudy weather the  Insect folds its wings the flower its winglike petals and as  flowers love and turn towards the sun so Butterflies open  their pinions to receive his welcome rays sometimes alter  nately closing them in fanlike motion to temper probably  his too ardent beams Sometimes with the devoted worship  of the sunflower a Butterfly will follow the God of Day in  his ascension and decline Our Purple Emperor mounts from  his leafy throne the top of an oak or elm tree to a height  invisible and highest under a noonday sun then redescending  lowers his flight with the setting luminary  As the blowing of flowers can be forced or retarded by  artificial heat or cold so it has been found with the emerge  ment of Butterflies Eeaumur made many successful experi  ments by aid of hothouses and hens upon various chrysalides  from which he caused the premature evolvement of the perfect  insect and proposed by employment of the same means on an  extensive scale to cause summer flowers and summer flutterers  to appear together in the midst of winter  Darwin had a pretty fancy that Butterflies usually resemble  in colour the flowers they are most accustomed to frequent  The poetnaturalist carried this notion doubtless beyond nature  but the idea is one which seems to shoot less wide of its mark  than many aimed from the Litchfield longbow There is a  very large proportion of white and yellow flowers which we  see visited perhaps most frequently by an equally large  proportion of white and yellowish Butterflies owing probably  to the preponderance of each The greater number of blue  Butterflies are certainly however accustomed to frequent the  blue flowers most abounding in chalky soils and the rich  tone of colouring in our autumn flowers harmonizes well with  that of autumn Butterflies But whether they be or be not  dyed usually after the colours of their favorite blossoms it  seems agreed on all hands that the Butterfly form and its  fluttering habiliments are always fashioned after the floral  pattern as it prevails in the papilionaceous families of the  vegetable world  We might continue at greater length our remarks on Butter  flies as connected with flowers which make verily part and  parcel of their existence but space forbids us and now re  turning to their relations of use we must notice somewhat  more minutely than most people perhaps are in the habit of  doing the manner in which the delicate delights of rest and  refreshment provided for them by the flower are turned to  account by these luxurious insects Let us follow one to the  garden   Where he arriving round about doth die  From bed to bed from one to tother border  And takes survey with curious busy eye  Of every flower and herbe there set in order  Now this now that he tasteth tenderly  Yet none of these he rudely doth disorder  Ne with his feete their silken leaves deface  But pastures on the pleasures of each place  Behold him seated on his velvet cushion the corolla of an  aster or a single dahlia in its centre his table of regalement  on which a whole service of golden vases are set before him in  due order His long spiral tongue has hitherto lain coiled  betwixt two side appendages but now unrolling he plunges  it to the bottom of a chosen chalice then partially recurves  and indraws his honied draught through the tubelike sucker  Again and again he quaffs like an Alderman as he is  We know him by his bulk and the richness of his furred and  velvet robes scarlet and black relieved with white But see  how the rights and pleasures even of an Alderman Butterfly  are open to invasion Look at that impertinent prying   Argus t tired of his rustic fare in heath or meadow and  hovering overhead allured seemingly by sight or scent of  richer dainties wherein art has had a finger Down he lights   Vanessa Atalanta Alderman or Red Admiral Butterfly  t Polyommatus Argus P Alexis Common Blue Butterfly  A BUTTERFLY DUEL  311  and seats himself beside the dahlia table an unbidden guest  The Aldermans translucent eye from red grows redder and  his gorgeous robes shake with indignation as he sees the  bold intruder unroll his liquorish tongue and dip it into one  of his own appropriated cups Still however he restrains  his ire within the bounds of Aldermanic dignity or prudence  he attempts not to drive the invader from his invaded board  But can it be possible the little Argus not content with a  dinner upon sufferance has actually become the assailant of  his unwilling host He closes his blue wings opening in  the act a hundred eyes and then tries with his pigmy body  to dislodge by shoving the corporation of the Alderman  But the patience of the latter and his prudence are now  put to flight Both start from table mutually buffet and  ascend in air mounting higher and higher as their choler  rises each growing hotter and hotter in his progress towards  the midday sun Now blue now red is uppermost Now  the light weight and azure pinions of the little Argus now  the heavy body and flapping wings of the burly Alderman  Which will be the gainer of the day Bor once Might and  Right are both upon a side and for that reason doubtless  Might seems worsted The combatants have risen so high  that they are almost beyond our dazzled sight but  now behold descending and alone the little blue aggressor  He has driven his opponent from the aerial field as well as from  his honied fare which he now returns to appropriate and discuss  at leisure as he resumes his seat upon the dahlias vacant  velvet The bold urchin has however paid forfeit for his  rudeness and pugnacity When he first alighted down beside  the Alderman he was a Beau Butterfly of the first water  but now his blue bravery late so bright and glossy all worn  and torn and jagged he looks what he is an impertinent  pilfering quarrelsome little varlet  Besides the above the Blue Argus Mr Knapp in his  Journal of a Naturalist notices as contentious animals  the common White Butterfly of our gardens and the small  Copperf as quarrelsome as he is handsome often fighting  even with his kindred when he meets a fellow on a September  knot of Chinaasters It has been noticed by the same  observer that clouds seem to abate the ardour of contending  Butterflies and that not unfrequently when two are engaged  on high in ardent and unheeding strife the arrival of a third  party in the shape of a hungry bird at once settles the differ  ence of the pugnacious pair by their conversion into a flying  meal But the most knowing among naturalists as well as  those of other professions are for ever differing and these  Butterfly struggles viewed by the writer last mentioned in the  light of combats have been regarded by another J in the more  pleasant one of pastime considered merely as frolicsome  exuberances of the vital principle played on by the buoyant  air expanded by the sunshine in their wings and bodies  Neither are their buffetings considered by Mr Bennie so  rude by half as they appear and he urges against the  probability of their angry purpose the number of the insects  sometimes as many as five or six seen together in collision  Of this argument however we scarcely see the force unless  it could be proved that Butterflies being wiser than men  never took sides or part in each others quarrels But as no  mortal consequences have ever as we know of been seen to  result from these rencounters in the air we must perhaps leave  unanswered the question of their dubious meaning that of  rough play or gentle warfare till the progress of phrenology  enables us to pronounce safely on the amount of combativeness  in a Butterflys skull Meanwhile we would much rather  incline to the pacific notion and in poetic justice admit our  favourite until we know to the contrary to be   A beautiful creature  That is gentle by nature  even though by so doing we throw a double stigma for his  pursuit and devourment upon our favourite robin  Butterflies are said to be the thirstiest creatures save Ants  and Crickets of all the Insect community but however they  may get tipsy perhaps quarrelsome over their cups of honied  wine it would appear that they are the best friends possible  when as is no uncommon occurrence they meet together in  numerous water drinking assemblies Like a row of white  muslin Misses at a Temperance TeaMeeting the small white  Butterflies are often in hot weather to be seen sitting side by  side on the margin of a halfdry pond where   in the same bathing their tender feet e  they are enabled at once to quench their thirst for water and  very likely for gossip In their choice of the former they  are however by no means so refined as the elegance of their  appearance would lead one to imagine for in like manner  as we have known delicate young ladies as great lovers of  London Porter as of sparkling Champagne or of the crystal  spring so the stagnant muddy pool or the dusty sprinkling of  a metropolitan road would seem to all appearance as grateful  to the Butterfly palate as the translucent rivulet or cooling  fountain  In these social assemblages but few females are accustomed  to be present though no law of absolute exclusion would seem  to exist against them as in the aerial dances of the Gnat The  prevailing absence of lady Butterflies from these waterdrinking  reunions has been assigned rather to their habits which being  of a most laudable stayathome character do not lead them  to those flights in the burning sun which excite the thirst of  their roving partners We should be the more unjust in  passing over without due praise this quiet domesticity of the  female Butterfly because it would never seem with her as with  some of her Moth cousins a mere virtue of necessity The  latter possess in some cases only apologies for wings or such  as are adequate only to the very brief support of their heavy  bodies whereas the Butterfly maid or matron is furnished  with a pair to the full as ample as those of her suitor or her  mate  Not always satisfied with their transits from field to field  and flower to flower certain families of the Butterfly race seem  seized occasionally with a perfect mania for visiting countries  beyond the sea but whether among the immense assemblages  which collect for this purpose females are included would  seem a doubtful point By staying as usual at home they  would at all events be no losers on such occasions the greater  number of winged adventurers being supposed to perish in  their passage across the ocean  Many Butterflies have a wide geographical range and one  of them the Painted Lady is remarkable for being a denizen  of each quarter of the globe With us this elegant insect  is in some seasons plentiful in others rare Its spiny cater  pillar is a feeder on spiny leaves those chiefly of the great  spearthistle Thistles by the way even wayside thistles  acquire in our sight a thousand piquant charms as soon as  we begin to notice insects We have just seen in its leaves  the nursery of the Painted Lady one of our prettiest Butterflies  and they afford the same to one of our prettiest Beetles the  little green Tortoise Its honeyscented flower is a loadstar of  attraction to a humming host of Hymenoptera while to some  of them most often to the redhipped Humblebee it affords   also a purple couch whereupon at drowsy evening as in the  fading time of year we are sure almost to catch him napping  When the purple of the flowers has faded also the head of a  thistle remains still a tower of strength for defence not alone  of vegetable life sometimes its bristling outworks may pro  tect only its own seeds but most often they enclose also an  insect garrison to which this bitter corn supplies provisions  Minute grubs and tiny caterpillars bright scarlet and brownish  white thus live by thousands within the prickly calyx till in  lieu of the seed and its feathery down devoured and arrested  they themselves are seen floating through the air in the winged  forms of downy Moth or glittering My  Eor the most part the wings of both sexes among Butterflies  are adorned alike but sometimes as with the feathered race  there is a difference clearly not to the ladys advantage in the  painting of her pigmy plumes The pretty OrangeTip that  wellknown sporter amidst sylvan glades and meadows has at  home occasionally beside him a whitewinged partner bearing  his name but without a colour of pretension to the title The  brilliant blue of our little Argus of fighting celebrity is deepened  in his lady to a purplish brown while the bright yellow of the  Brimstone beaut fades in his modest belle to a greenish white  Linnaeus not aware it is supposed of this occasional difference  of colour in the opposite sexes of Butterflies has sometimes  strangely put asunder what nature joins together representing  perhaps the husband as a Trojan and making his wife figure  in the ranks of the opposing Grecians or vice versa  To talk of Greeks and Trojans in connection with Butterflies  may require a word of explanation to the uninitiated To such  then be it known that for the convenience of arrangement the  great Swedish naturalist founded on fabulous and ancient  history an allegorical system wherein Butterflies divided into  sections of Greeks and Trojans were named after their deities  princes heroes nymphs and plebeians an ingenious and  useful plan but sometimes involving a curious contradiction  and unfitness of terms It would seem notwithstanding  that the imaginative inventor of this system sought for and  in many instances found a sort of emblematic personal analogy  between his Butterfly and its classic namesake The beautiful  Papilio Ulpssis bears for instance on its wings a radiating  cerulean disk which being surrounded on every side by a  margin of intense black gives the idea of light shining in  darkness and this is supposed not improbably to have  suggested to Linnseus the insects fitness to symbolize the wisest  of the Greeks in an age of barbarism The Papilio Priamus  in all its regal yet subdued splendor of purple black and  green is no unsuited representative of the unhappy Trojan  king or the yet more glorious Papilio Menelaus in his azure  robes of the magnificent husband of the beauteous Helen  while the bloodred Nero may be allowed to symbolize the  sanguinary Boman Emperor Perhaps in the whole range of nature there is no object of  equal size which presents so much combined splendour variety  and elegance as a Butterflys wing   Where colours blend in ever varying dye  And wanton in their gay exchanges vie  Its richness of hue and velvety softness of texture are produced  by the seeming powder in reality minute feathers or scales  sometimes intermixed with hairs by which it is thickly over  laid in the manner of a roof with tiles The number of these  little plumes is immense yet hardly so prodigious as the  patience of certain Entomologists who having counted found  them on the wing of a Silk worm Moth to amount to 400000  while as many as 100735 were found comprised within a  single square inch of that of a Peacock Butterfly When  stripped of its plumage the wing as all must have noticed is  left a thin transparent membrane intersected by nervures and  dotted with little holes wherein the plumelets were inserted  In a few instances chiefly in tropical insects spots are left by  nature perfectly transparent contrasting prettily with the rich  velvet which surrounds them  Several tribes of our native Butterflies are distinguished and  classed according to their prevailing colours Our fulgid  Coppers and Eritillaries f with silverspotted wings look  allied by their metallic lustre with the metallic productions of  earth Our Blues J imitate the azure tints of the sky while  others which display shades of light progressively warming  from white to orange have been considered not unaptly as   sacred to the day Those concentric circles of colour called  ocelli or eyes which give in some instances such an accession  of life and brilliancy to the wings of Butterflies and Moths  may be looked on as stars of distinction belonging to their  order Lepidoptera conferred solely on one other of the insect  race and eclipsed only by the magnitude and profusion of  those which are lavished on the strutting peacock  There are few people perhaps unwilling to bestow their  meed of praise on the beautiful object we have just described  however they may be usually accustomed to defraud nature of  her just tribute of notice and admiration but how often has the  Butterflys wing like other exquisite works of Creation drawn  from the beholders lips expressions ascending from the in  different Very pretty to the enraptured How superlatively  beautiful without giving rise to one thought about the  taste and skill of its Divine Artificer or one feeling about that  bounty and benevolence which has led him to bestow all this  elaborate ornament on a little creature designed as we cannot  doubt to minister to the delight of our admiring eyes to  give for us a living charm to the flowers he emulates and  in his emblematic story no less than in his exhilarating flights  towards the source of day to raise our spirits above and  beyond it to the source of all things bright and beautiful  These we are persuaded are the primary objects of their Great  Creator in filling the air with forms of life and grace which  destitute of outward beauty might have accomplished as well  all the other ends of their creation Let not therefore our own  heedlessness and ingratitude frustrate a design so gracious  Would we know some other obvious and essential uses of  the Butterfly race let us inquire of the thrush the robin and  the wren in whose billoffare they hold a most conspicuous  place and remember how these papilionaceous epicures con  tribute to our pleasure and service filling the woods and  gardens with most sweet music and at the same time  ridding them of a multitude of other insects whose mischiefs  we are less inclined to overlook than those wrought in its  infancy by the admired Butterfly

CONTENTS.


                                                     PAGE

  OLÉ LUCKOIÈ--THE STORY-TELLER AT NIGHT                5

  THE DAISY                                            28

  THE NAUGHTY BOY                                      37

  TOMMELISE                                            42

  THE ROSE-ELF                                         64

  THE GARDEN OF PARADISE                               74

  A NIGHT IN THE KITCHEN                              102

  LITTLE IDA'S FLOWERS                                108

  THE CONSTANT TIN SOLDIER                            124

  THE STORKS                                          133






There is nobody in all this world who knows so many tales as Olé
Luckoiè! He can tell tales! In an evening, when a child sits so nicely
at the table, or on its little stool, Olé Luckoiè comes. He comes
so quietly into the house, for he walks without shoes; he opens the
door without making any noise, and then he flirts sweet milk into the
children's eyes; but so gently, so very gently, that they cannot keep
their eyes open, and, therefore, they never see him; he steals softly
behind them and blows gently on their necks, and thus their heads
become heavy. Oh yes! But then it does them no harm; for Olé Luckoiè
means nothing but kindness to the children, he only wants to amuse
them; and the best thing that can be done is for somebody to carry them
to bed, where they may lie still and listen to the tales that he will
tell them.

Now when the children are asleep, Olé Luckoiè sits down on the bed;
he is very well dressed; his coat is of silk, but it is not possible
to tell what color it is, because it shines green, and red, and blue,
just as if one color ran into another. He holds an umbrella under each
arm; one of them is covered all over the inside with pictures, and
this he sets over the good child, and it dreams all night long the
most beautiful histories. The other umbrella has nothing at all within
it; this he sets over the heads of naughty children, and they sleep so
heavily, that next morning when they wake they have not dreamed the
least in the world.

Now we will hear how Olé Luckoiè came every evening for a whole week to
a little boy, whose name was Yalmar, and what he told him. There are
seven stories, because there are seven days in a week.


MONDAY.

"Just listen!" said Olé Luckoiè, in the evening, when they had put
Yalmar in bed; "now I shall make things fine!"--and with that all the
plants in the flower-pots grew up into great trees which stretched
out their long branches along the ceiling and the walls, till the
whole room looked like the most beautiful summer-house; and all the
branches were full of flowers, and every flower was more beautiful than
a rose, and was so sweet, that if anybody smelt at it, it was sweeter
than raspberry jam! The fruit on the trees shone like gold, and great
big bunches of raisins hung down--never had any thing been seen like
it!--but all at once there began such a dismal lamentation in the
table-drawer where Yalmar kept his school-books.

"What is that?" said Olé Luckoiè, and went to the table and opened
the drawer. It was the slate that was in great trouble; for there was
an addition sum on it that was added up wrong, and the slate-pencil
was hopping and jumping about in its string, like a little dog that
wanted to help the sum, but it could not! And besides this, Yalmar's
copy-book was crying out sadly! All the way down each page stood a
row of great letters, each with a little one by its side; these were
the copy; and then there stood other letters, which fancied that they
looked like the copy; and these Yalmar had written; but they were
some one way and some another, just as if they were tumbling over the
pencil-lines on which they ought to have stood.

"Look, you should hold yourselves up--thus!" said the copy; "thus, all
in a line, with a brisk air!"

"Oh! we would so gladly, if we could," said Yalmar's writing; "but we
cannot, we are so miserable!"

"Then we will make you!" said Olé Luckoiè gruffly.

"Oh, no!" cried the poor little crooked letters; but for all that they
straightened themselves, till it was quite a pleasure to see them.

"Now, then, cannot we tell a story?" said Olé Luckoiè; "now I can
exercise them! One, two! One, two!" And so, like a drill-sergeant, he
put them all through their exercise, and they stood as straight and
as well-shaped as any copy. After that Olé Luckoiè went his way; and
Yalmar, when he looked at the letters next morning, found them tumbling
about just as miserably as at first.


TUESDAY.

No sooner was Yalmar in bed than Olé Luckoiè came with his little wand,
and touched all the furniture in the room; and, in a minute, every
thing began to chatter; and they chattered all together, and about
nothing but themselves. Every thing talked except the old door-mat,
which lay silent, and was vexed that they should be all so full of
vanity as to talk of nothing but themselves, and think only about
themselves, and never have one thought for it which lay so modestly in
a corner and let itself be trodden upon.

There hung over the chest of drawers a great picture in a gilt frame;
it was a landscape; one could see tall, old trees, flowers in the
grass, and a great river, which ran through great woods, past many
castles out into the wild sea.

Olé Luckoiè touched the picture with his wand; and with that the birds
in the picture began to sing, the tree-branches began to wave, and the
clouds regularly to move,--one could see them moving along over the
landscape!

Olé Luckoiè now lifted little Yalmar up into the picture; he put his
little legs right into it, just as if into tall grass, and there he
stood. The sun shone down through the tree-branches upon him. He ran
down to the river, and got into a little boat which lay there. It was
painted red and white, the sails shone like silk, and six swans, each
with a circlet of gold round its neck and a beaming blue star upon its
head, drew the little boat past the green-wood,--where he heard the
trees talking about robbers, and witches, and flowers, and the pretty
little fairies, and all that the summer birds had told them of.

The loveliest fishes, with scales like silver and gold, swam after the
boat, and leaped up in the water; and birds, some red and some blue,
small and great, flew, in two long rows, behind; gnats danced about,
and cockchafers said hum, hum! They all came following Yalmar, and you
may think what a deal they had to tell him.

It was a regular voyage! Now the woods were so thick and so dark--now
they were like the most beautiful garden, with sunshine and flowers;
and in the midst of them there stood great castles of glass and of
marble. Upon the balconies of these castles stood princesses, and every
one of them were the little girls whom Yalmar knew very well, and with
whom he had played. They all reached out their hands to him, and held
out the most delicious sticks of barley-sugar which any confectioner
could make; and Yalmar bit off a piece from every stick of barley-sugar
as he sailed past, and Yalmar's piece was always a very large piece!
Before every castle stood little princes as sentinels; they stood with
their golden swords drawn, and showered down almonds and raisins. They
were perfect princes!

Yalmar soon sailed through the wood, then through a great hall, or into
the midst of a city; and at last he came to that in which his nurse
lived, she who had nursed him when he was a very little child, and
had been so very fond of him. And there he saw her, and she nodded
and waved her hand to him, and sang the pretty little verse which she
herself had made about Yalmar--

    Full many a time I thee have missed,
      My Yalmar, my delight!
    I, who thy cherry-mouth have kissed,
      Thy rosy cheeks, thy forehead white!
    I saw thy earliest infant mirth--
      I now must say farewell!
    May our dear Lord bless thee on earth,
      Then take thee to his heaven to dwell!

And all the birds sang, too, the flowers danced upon their stems, and
the old trees nodded like as Olé Luckoiè did while he told his tales.


WEDNESDAY.

How the rain did pour down! Yalmar could hear it in his sleep! and
when Olé Luckoiè opened the casement, the water stood up to the very
window-sill. There was a regular sea outside; but the most splendid
ship lay close up to the house.

"If thou wilt sail with me, little Yalmar," said Olé Luckoiè, "thou
canst reach foreign countries in the night, and be here again by
to-morrow morning!"

And with this Yalmar stood in his Sunday clothes in the ship, and
immediately the weather became fine, and they sailed through the
streets, tacked about round the church, and then came out into a great,
desolate lake. They sailed so far, that at last they could see no more
land, and then they saw a flock of storks, which were coming from home,
on their way to the warm countries; one stork after another flew on,
and they had already flown such a long, long way. One of the storks was
so very much tired that it seemed as if his wings could not support him
any longer; he was the very last of all the flock, and got farther and
farther behind them; and, at last, he sank lower and lower, with his
outspread wings: he still flapped his wings, now and then, but that
did not help him; now his feet touched the cordage of the ship; now he
glided down the sail, and, bounce! down he came on the deck.

A sailor-boy then took him up, and set him in the hencoop among hens,
and ducks, and turkeys. The poor stork stood quite confounded among
them all.

"Here's a thing!" said all the hens.

And the turkey-cock blew himself up as much as ever he could, and asked
the stork who he was; and the ducks they went on jostling one against
the other, saying, "Do thou ask! do thou ask!"

The stork told them all about the warm Africa, about the pyramids, and
about the simoom, which sped like a horse over the desert: but the
ducks understood not a word about what he said, and so they whispered
one to the other, "We are all agreed, he is silly!"

"Yes, to be sure, he is silly," said the turkey-cock aloud. The poor
stork stood quite still, and thought about Africa.

"What a pair of beautiful thin legs you have got!" said the
turkey-cock; "what is the price by the yard?"

"Ha! ha! ha!" laughed all the ducks; but the stork pretended that he
did not hear.

"I cannot help laughing," said the turkey-cock, "it was so very witty;
or, perhaps, it was too low for him!--ha! ha! he can't take in many
ideas! Let us only be interesting to ourselves!" And with that they
began to gobble, and the ducks chattered, "Gik, gak! gik, gak!" It was
amazing to see how entertaining they were to themselves.

Yalmar, however, went up to the hencoop, opened the door, and called
to the stork, which hopped out to him on the deck. It had now rested
itself; and it seemed as if it nodded to Yalmar to thank him. With this
it spread out its wings and flew away to its warm countries; but the
hens clucked, the ducks chattered, and the turkey-cocks grew quite red
in the head.

"To-morrow we shall have you for dinner!" said Yalmar; and so he awoke,
and was lying in his little bed.

It was, however, a wonderful voyage that Olé Luckoiè had taken him that
night.


THURSDAY.

"Dost thou know what?" said Olé Luckoiè. "Now do not be afraid, and
thou shalt see a little mouse!" and with that he held out his hand with
the pretty little creature in it.

"It is come to invite thee to a wedding," said he. "There are two
little mice who are going to be married to-night; they live down
under the floor of thy mother's store-closet; it will be such a nice
opportunity for thee."

"But how can I get through the little mouse-hole in the floor?" asked
Yalmar.

"Leave that to me," said Olé Luckoiè; "I shall make thee little
enough!" And with that he touched Yalmar with his wand, and immediately
he grew less and less, until at last he was no bigger than my finger.

"Now thou canst borrow the tin soldier's clothes," said Olé Luckoiè; "I
think they would fit thee, and it looks so proper to have uniform on
when people go into company."

"Yes, to be sure!" said Yalmar; and in a moment he was dressed up like
the most beautiful new tin soldier.

"Will you be so good as to seat yourself in your mother's thimble,"
said the little mouse; "and then I shall have the honor of driving you!"

"Goodness!" said Yalmar; "will the young lady herself take the
trouble?" and with that they drove to the mouse's wedding.

First of all, after going under the floor, they came into a long
passage, which was so low that they could hardly drive in the thimble,
and the whole passage was illuminated with touchwood.

"Does it not smell delicious?" said the mouse as they drove along; "the
whole passage has been rubbed with bacon-sward; nothing can be more
delicious!"

They now came into the wedding-hall. On the right hand stood the little
she-mice, and they all whispered and tittered as if they were making
fun of one another; on the left hand all the he-mice, and stroked their
mustachios with their paws. In the middle of the floor were to be seen
the bridal pair, who stood in a hollow cheese-paring; and they kept
kissing one another before everybody, for they were desperately in
love, and were going to be married directly.

And all this time there kept coming in more and more strangers, till
one mouse was ready to trample another to death; and the bridal pair
had placed themselves in a doorway, so that people could neither go in
nor come out. The whole room, like the passage, had been smeared with
sward of bacon; that was all the entertainment: but as a dessert a pea
was produced, on which a little mouse of family had bitten the name of
the bridal pair,--that is to say, the first letters of their name; that
was something quite out of the common way.

All the mice said that it was a charming wedding, and that the
conversation had been so good!

Yalmar drove home again; he had really been in very grand society, but
he must have been regularly squeezed together to make himself small
enough for a tin soldier's uniform.


FRIDAY.

"It is incredible how many elderly people there are who would be so
glad of me," said Olé Luckoiè, "especially those who have done any
thing wrong. 'Good little Olé,' say they to me, 'we cannot close our
eyes; and so we lie all night long awake, and see all our bad deeds,
which sit, like ugly little imps, on the bed's head, and squirt hot
water on us. Wilt thou only just come and drive them away, that we may
have a good sleep!' and with that they heave such deep sighs--'we would
so gladly pay thee; good-night, Olé!' Silver pennies lie for me in the
window," said Olé Luckoiè, "but I do not give sleep for money!"

"Now what shall we have to-night?" inquired Yalmar.

"I do not know whether thou hast any desire to go again to-night to a
wedding," said Olé Luckoiè; "but it is of a different kind to that of
last night. Thy sister's great doll, which is dressed like a gentleman,
and is called Herman, is going to be married to the doll Bertha;
besides, it is the doll's birthday, and therefore there will be a great
many presents made."

"Yes, I know," said Yalmar; "always, whenever the dolls have new
clothes, my sister entreats that they have a birthday or a wedding;
that has happened certainly a hundred times!"

"Yes, but to-night it is the hundred and first wedding, and when
a hundred and one is done then all is over! Therefore it will be
incomparably grand. Only look!"

Yalmar looked at the table; there stood the little doll's house
with lights in the windows, and all the tin soldiers presented arms
outside. The bridal couple sat upon the floor, and leaned against the
table-legs, and looked very pensive, and there might be reason for it.
But Olé Luckoiè, dressed in the grandmother's black petticoat, married
them, and when they were married, all the furniture in the room joined
in the following song, which was written in pencil, and which was sung
to the tune of the drum:--

    Our song like a wind comes flitting
    Into the room where the bride-folks are sitting;
    They are partly of wood, as is befitting:
    Their skin is the skin of a glove well fitting!
    Hurrah, hurrah! for sitting and fitting!
    Thus sing we aloud as the wind comes flitting!

And now the presents were brought, but they had forbidden any kind of
eatables, for their love was sufficient for them.

"Shall we stay in the country, or shall we travel into foreign parts?"
asked the bridegroom; and with that they begged the advice of the
breeze, which had travelled a great deal, and of the old hen, which
had had five broods of chickens. The breeze told them about the
beautiful, warm countries where the bunches of grapes hung so large and
so heavy; where the air was so mild, and the mountains had colors of
which one could have no idea "in this country."

"But there they have not our green cabbage!" said the hen. "I lived
for one summer with all my chickens in the country; there was a dry,
dusty ditch in which we could go and scuttle, and we had admittance to
a garden where there was green cabbage! O, how green it was! I cannot
fancy any thing more beautiful!"

"But one cabbage-stalk looks just like another," said the breeze; "and
then there is such wretched weather here."

"Yes, but one gets used to it," said the hen.

"But it is cold--it freezes!"

"That is good for the cabbage!" said the hen. "Besides, we also have
it warm. Had not we four years ago a summer which lasted five weeks,
and it was so hot that people did not know how to bear it? And then we
have not all the poisonous creatures which they have there! and we are
far from robbers. He is a good-for-nothing fellow who does not think
our country the most beautiful in the world! and he does not deserve to
be here!" and with that the hen cried.--"And I also have travelled,"
continued she; "I have gone in a boat above twelve miles; there is no
pleasure in travelling."

"The hen is a sensible body!" said the doll Bertha; "I would rather not
travel to the mountains, for it is only going up to come down again.
No! we will go down into the ditch, and walk in the cabbage-garden."

And so they did.


SATURDAY.

"Shall I have any stories?" said little Yalmar, as soon as Olé Luckoiè
had put him to sleep.

"In the evening we have no time for any," said Olé, and spread out
his most beautiful umbrella above his head. "Look now at this Chinese
scene!" and with that the whole inside of the umbrella looked like a
great china saucer, with blue trees and pointed bridges, on which
stood little Chinese, who stood and nodded with their heads. "We shall
have all the world dressed up beautifully this morning," said Olé, "for
it is really a holiday; it is Sunday. I shall go up into the church
towers to see whether the little church-elves polish the bells, because
they sound so sweetly. I shall go out into the market, and see whether
the wind blows the dust, and grass, and leaves, and what is the hardest
work there. I shall have all the stars down to polish them; I shall put
them into my apron, but first of all I must have them all numbered, and
the holes where they fit up there numbered also; else we shall never
put them into their proper places again, and then they will not be
firm, and we shall have so many falling stars, one dropping down after
another!"

"Hear, you Mr. Luckoiè, there!" said an old portrait that hung on the
wall of the room where Yalmar slept: "I am Yalmar's grandfather. We are
obliged to you for telling the boy pretty stories, but you must not go
and confuse his ideas. The stars cannot be taken down and polished! The
stars are globes like our earth, and they want nothing doing at them!"

"Thou shalt have thanks, thou old grandfather," said Olé Luckoiè;
"thanks thou shalt have! Thou art, to be sure, the head of the family;
thou art the old head of the family; but for all that, I am older than
thou! I am an old heathen; the Greeks and the Romans called me the god
of dreams. I go into great folks' houses, and I shall go there still. I
know how to manage both with young and old. But now thou mayst take thy
turn." And with this Olé Luckoiè went away, and took his umbrella with
him.

"Now, one cannot tell what he means!" said the old Portrait.

And Yalmar awoke.


SUNDAY.

"Good-evening!" said Olé Luckoiè, and Yalmar nodded; but he jumped up
and turned the grandfather's portrait to the wall, that it might not
chatter as it had done the night before.

"Now thou shalt tell me a story," said Yalmar, "about the five peas
that live in one pea-pod, and about Hanebeen who cured Honebeen; and
about the darning-needle, that was so fine that it fancied itself a
sewing-needle."

"One might do a deal of good by so doing," said Olé Luckoiè; "but, dost
thou know, I would rather show thee something. I will show thee my
brother; he also is called Olé Luckoiè. He never comes more than once
to anybody,--and when he comes he takes the person away with him on his
horse, and tells him a great and wonderful history. But he only knows
two, one of them is the most incomparably beautiful story, so beautiful
that nobody in the world can imagine it; and the other is so dismal and
sad--oh, it is impossible to describe how sad!"

Having said this, Olé Luckoiè lifted little Yalmar up to the window
and said, "There thou mayst see my brother, the other Olé Luckoiè!
They call him Death! Dost thou see, he does not look horrible as they
have painted him in picture-books, like a skeleton; no, his coat is
embroidered with silver; he wears a handsome Hussar uniform! A cloak of
black velvet flies behind, over his horse. See how he gallops!"

Yalmar looked, and saw how the other Olé Luckoiè rode along, and took
both young and old people with him on his horse. Some he set before
him, and some he set behind; but his first question always was, "How
does it stand in your character-book?"

Everybody said, "Good!"

"Yes! let me see myself," said he; and they were obliged to show him
their books: and all those in whose books were written, "Very good!" or
"Remarkably good!" he placed before him on his horse; and they listened
to the beautiful story that he could tell. But they in whose books was
written, "Not very good," or "Only middling," they had to sit behind
and listen to the dismal tale. These wept bitterly, and would have been
glad to have got away, that they might have amended their characters;
but it was then too late.

"Death is, after all, the most beautiful Olé Luckoiè," said Yalmar; "I
shall not be afraid of him."

"Thou need not fear him," said Olé Luckoiè, "if thou only take care and
have a good character-book."

"There is instruction in that," mumbled the old grandfather's
portrait; "that is better: one sees his meaning!" and he was pleased.

       *       *       *       *       *

See, this is the story about Olé Luckoiè. This night, perhaps, he may
tell thee some others.




THE DAISY.


Now thou shalt hear!--Out in the country, close by the high road, there
stood a pleasure-house,--thou hast, no doubt, seen it thyself. In the
front is a little garden full of flowers, and this is fenced in with
painted palisades. Close beside these, in a hollow, there grew, all
among the loveliest green grass, a little tuft of daisies. The sun
shone upon it just as warmly and as sweetly as upon the large and rich
splendid flowers within the garden, and, therefore, it grew hour by
hour. One morning it opened its little shining white flower-leaves,
which looked just like rays of light all round the little yellow sun
in the inside. It never once thought that nobody saw it down there in
the grass, and that it was a poor, despised flower! No, nothing of the
kind! It was so very happy; turned itself round towards the warm sun,
looked up, and listened to the lark which sang in the blue air.

The little daisy was as happy as if it had been some great holiday, and
yet it was only a Monday. All the children were in school, and while
they sat upon the benches learning their lessons, it also sat upon its
little green stalk, and learned from the warm sun and from every thing
around it, how good God is. And it seemed to it quite right that the
little lark sang so intelligibly and so beautifully every thing which
it felt in stillness; and it looked up with a sort of reverence to
the happy bird, which could sing and fly, but it was not at all vexed
because it could not do the same.

"I see it and hear it," thought the daisy; "the sun shines upon me, and
the winds kiss me! O, what a many gifts I enjoy!"

Inside the garden paling there were such a great many stiff, grand
flowers; and all the less fragrance they had the more they seemed to
swell themselves out. The pionies blew themselves out that they might
be bigger than the roses; but it is not size which does every thing.
The tulips had the most splendid colors, and they knew it too, and
held themselves so upright on purpose that people should see them all
the better. They never paid the least attention to the little daisy
outside, but it looked at them all the more, and thought, "How rich
they are, and how beautiful! Yes, to be sure, the charming bird up
there must fly down and pay them a visit. Thank God! that I am so
near that I can see all the glory!" And while she was thinking these
thoughts--"Quirrevit!" down came the lark flying,--but not down to the
pionies and the tulips: no! but down into the grass to the poor little
daisy; which was so astonished by pure joy, that it did not know what
it should think.

The little bird danced round about, and sang, "Nay, but the grass is in
flower! and see, what a sweet little blossom, with a golden heart and a
silver jerkin on!"--for the yellow middle of the daisy looked as if it
were of gold, and the little leaves round about were shining and silver
white.

So happy as the little daisy was it is quite impossible to describe!
The bird kissed it with its beak, sang before it, and then flew up
again into the blue air. It required a whole quarter of an hour before
the daisy could come to itself again. Half bashfully, and yet with
inward delight, it looked into the garden to the other flowers; they
had actually seen the honor and the felicity which she had enjoyed;
they could certainly understand, she thought, what a happiness it was.
But the tulips stood yet just as stiffly as before, and their faces
were so peaked and so red!--for they were quite vexed. The pionies were
quite thick-headed, too! it was a good thing that they could not talk,
or else the daisy would have been regularly scolded. The poor little
flower, however, could see very plainly that they were not in a good
humor, and that really distressed her. At that very moment there came
a girl into the garden with a great knife in her hand, which was very
sharp and shining, and she went all among the tulips, and she cut off
first one and then another.

"Ah!" sighed the little daisy, "that was very horrible; now all is over
with them!"

So the girl went away with the tulips. The daisy was glad that it grew
in the grass, and was a little mean flower; it felt full of gratitude,
and when the sun set, it folded its leaves, slept, and dreamed the
whole night long about the sun and the little bird.

Next morning, the flower again, full of joy, spread out all its white
leaves, like small arms, towards the air and the light; it recognised
the bird's voice; but the song of the bird was very sorrowful. Yes,
the poor little bird had good reason for being sad! it had been taken
prisoner, and now sat in a cage close by the open window of the
pleasure-house. It sang about flying wherever it would in freedom and
bliss; it sang about the young green corn in the fields, and about the
charming journeys which it used to make up in the blue air upon its
hovering wings. The poor bird was heavy at heart, and was captive in a
cage.

The little daisy wished so sincerely that it could be of any service;
but it was difficult to tell how. In sympathizing with the lark, the
daisy quite forgot how beautiful was every thing around it--how warmly
the sun shone, and how beautifully white were its own flower-leaves.
Ah! it could think of nothing but of the captive bird, for which it
was not able to do any thing.

Just then came two little boys out of the garden; one of them had a
knife in his hand, large and sharp, like that which the girl had, and
with which she cut off the tulips. They went straight up to the little
daisy, which could not think what they wanted.

"Here we can get a beautiful grass turf for the lark," said one of the
boys; and began deeply to cut out a square around the daisy-root, so
that it was just in the middle of the turf.

"Break off the flower!" said the other boy; and the daisy trembled for
very fear of being broken off, and thus losing its life; when it would
so gladly live and go with the turf into the cage of the captive lark.

"Nay, let it be where it is!" said the other boy; "it makes it look so
pretty!"

And so it was left there, and was taken into the cage to the lark.

But the poor bird made loud lamentations over its lost freedom, and
struck the wires of the cage with its wings. The little daisy could
not speak, could not say one consoling word, however gladly it would
have done so. Thus passed the forenoon.

"There is no water here," said the captive lark; "they are all gone
out, and have forgotten to give me a drop to drink! my throat is dry
and burning! it is fire and ice within me, and the air is so heavy! Ah!
I shall die away from the warm sunshine, from the fresh green leaves,
from all the glorious things which God has created!" and with that
it bored its little beak down into the cool turf to refresh itself a
little. At that moment it caught sight of the daisy, nodded to it,
kissed it with its beak, and said, "Thou also must wither here, thou
poor little flower! Thou and the little plot of grass, which they have
given me for the whole world which I had out there! Every little blade
of grass may be to me a green tree, every one of thy little white
leaves a fragrant flower! Ah! you only tell me how much I have lost!"

"Ah! who can comfort him!" thought the daisy, but could not move a
leaf; and yet the fragrance which was given forth from its delicate
petals was much sweeter than is usual in such flowers. The bird
remarked this, and when, overcome by the agony of thirst and misery, it
tore up every green blade of grass, it touched not the little flower.

Evening came, and yet no one brought a single drop of water to the
poor bird. It stretched out its beautiful wings, fluttered them
convulsively, and its song was a melancholy wailing; its little head
bowed down towards the flower, and its heart broke from thirst and
longing. The little flower knew this not; before the evening was ended,
it had folded its petals together and slept upon the earth, overcome
with sickness and sorrow.

Not until the next morning came the boys, and when they saw that the
bird was dead they wept, wept many tears, and dug for it a handsome
grave, which they adorned with leaves of flowers. The corpse of the
bird was laid in a beautiful red box. It was to be buried royally, the
poor bird! which, when full of life and singing its glorious song, they
forgot, and let it pine in a cage, and suffer thirst--and now they did
him honor, and shed many tears over him!

But the sod of grass with the daisy, that they threw out into the dust
of the highway; no one thought about it, though it had felt more than
any of them for the little bird, and would so gladly have comforted it.






There was once upon a time an old poet, such a really good old poet!
One evening, he sat at home--it was dreadful weather out of doors--the
rain poured down; but the old poet sat so comfortably, and in such a
good humor, beside his stove, where the fire was burning brightly, and
his apples were merrily roasting.

"There will not be a dry thread on the poor souls who are out in this
weather!" said he; for he was such a good old poet.

"O let me in! I am freezing, and I am so wet!" cried the voice of a
little child outside. It cried and knocked at the door, while the rain
kept pouring down, and the wind rattled at all the windows.

"Poor little soul!" said the old poet, and got up to open the door.
There stood a little boy; he had not any clothes on, and the rain ran
off from his long yellow hair. He shook with the cold; if he had not
been taken in, he would most surely have died of that bad weather.

"Thou poor little soul!" said the kind old poet, and took him by the
hand; "come in, and I will warm thee! and thou shalt have some wine,
and a nice roasted apple, for thou art a pretty little boy!"

And so he was. His eyes were like two bright stars, and, although the
water ran down from his yellow hair, yet it curled so beautifully. He
looked just like a little angel; but he was pale with the cold, and his
little body trembled all over. In his hand he carried a pretty little
bow; but it was quite spoiled with the rain, and all the colors of his
beautiful little arrows ran one into another with the wet.

The good old poet seated himself by the stove, and took the little boy
upon his knee; he wrung the rain out of his hair, warmed his little
hands in his, and made some sweet wine warm for him; by this means the
rosy color came back into his cheeks, he jumped down upon the floor,
and danced round and round the old poet.

"Thou art a merry lad," said the poet; "what is thy name?"

"They call me Love," replied the boy; "dost thou not know me? There
lies my bow; I shoot with it, thou mayst believe! See, now, the weather
clears up; the moon shines!"

"But thy bow is spoiled," said the old poet.

"That would be sad!" said the little boy, and took it up to see if
it were. "Oh, it is quite dry," said he; "it is not hurt at all! The
string is quite firm: now I will try it!"

And with that he strung it, laid an arrow upon it, took his aim, and
shot the good old poet right through the heart!

"Thou canst now see that my bow is not spoiled!" said he; and laughing
as loud as he could, ran away. What a naughty boy! to shoot the good
old poet who had taken him into the warm room; who had been so kind to
him, and given him nice wine to drink, and the very best of his roasted
apples!

The poor poet lay upon the floor and wept, for he was actually shot
through the heart, and he said, "Fy! what a naughty boy that Love is! I
will tell all good little children about him, that they may drive him
away before he makes them some bad return!"

All good children, boys and girls, to whom he told this, drove away
that naughty little lad; but for all that he has made fools of them
all, for he is so artful! When students go from their lectures, he
walks by their side with a book under his arm, and they fancy that he
too is a student, and so he runs an arrow into their breasts. When
young girls go to church, and when they stand in the aisle of the
church, he too has followed them. Yes, he is always following people!

He sits in the great chandelier in the theatre, and burns with a
bright flame, and so people think he is a lamp, but afterwards they
find something else! He runs about the king's garden, and on the
bowling-green! Yes! he once shot thy father and mother through the
heart! Ask them about it, and then thou wilt hear what they say. Yes,
indeed, he is a bad boy, that Love; do thou never have any thing to do
with him!--he is always running after people! Only think! once upon a
time, he even shot an arrow at thy good old grandmother!--but that is a
long time ago, and it is past. But thus it is, he never forgets anybody!

Fy, for shame, naughty Love! But now thou knowest him, and knowest what
a bad boy he is!







Once upon a time, a beggar woman went to the house of a poor peasant,
and asked for something to eat. The peasant's wife gave her some bread
and milk. When she had eaten it, she took a barley-corn out of her
pocket, and said--"This will I give thee; set it in a flower-pot, and
see what will come out of it."

The woman set the barley-corn in an old flower-pot, and the next day
the most beautiful plant had shot up, which looked just like a tulip,
but the leaves were shut close together, as if it still were in bud.

"What a pretty flower it is!" said the woman, and kissed the small
red and yellow leaves; and just as she had kissed them, the flower
gave a great crack, and opened itself. It was a real tulip, only one
could see that in the middle of the flower there sat upon the pintail
a little tiny girl, so delicate and lovely, and not half so big as my
thumb, and, therefore, woman called her Tommelise.

A pretty polished walnut-shell was her cradle, blue violet leaves
were her mattress, and a rose leaf was her coverlet; here she slept
at night, but in the day she played upon the table, where the woman
had set a plate, around which she placed quite a garland of flowers,
the stalks of which were put in water. A large tulip-leaf floated on
the water. Tommelise seated herself on this, and sailed from one end
of the plate to the other; she had two white horse-hairs to row her
little boat with. It looked quite lovely; and then she sang--Oh! so
beautifully, as nobody ever had heard!

One night, as she lay in her nice little bed, there came a fat, yellow
frog hopping in at the window, in which there was a broken pane. The
frog was very large and heavy, but it hopped easily on the table where
Tommelise lay and slept under the red rose leaf.

"This would be a beautiful wife for my son!" said the frog; and so she
took up the walnut-shell in which Tommelise lay, and hopped away with
it, through the broken pane, down into the garden.

Here there ran a large, broad river; but just at its banks it was
marshy and muddy: the frog lived here, with her son. Uh! he also was
all spotted with green and yellow, and was very like his mother. "Koax,
koax, brekke-ke-kex!" that was all that he could say when he saw the
pretty little maiden in the walnut-shell.

"Don't make such a noise, or else you will waken her," said the old
frog; "and if you frighten her, she may run away from us, for she is as
light as swan's down! We will take her out on the river, and set her on
a waterlily leaf; to her who is so light, it will be like an island;
she cannot get away from us there, and we will then go and get ready
the house in the mud, where you two shall live together."

There grew a great many waterlilies in the river, with their broad
green leaves, which seemed to float upon the water. The old frog swam
to the leaf which was the farthest out in the river, and which was the
largest also, and there she set the walnut-shell, with little Tommelise.

The poor little tiny thing awoke quite early in the morning, and when
she saw where she was she began to cry bitterly, for there was water on
every side of the large green leaf, and she could not get to land.

The old frog sat down in the mud, and decked her house with sedge and
yellow water-reeds, that it might be regularly beautiful when her new
daughter-in-law came. After this was done, she and her fat son swam
away to the lily leaf, where Tommelise stood, that they might fetch her
pretty little bed, and so have every thing ready before she herself
came to the house.

The old frog courtesied to her in the water, and said,--"Allow me to
introduce my son to you, who is to be your husband, and you shall live
together, so charmingly, down in the mud!"

"Koax, koax, brekke-ke-kex!" that was all that the son could say.

So they took the pretty little bed, and swam away with it; but
Tommelise sat, quite alone, and wept, upon the green leaf, for she did
not wish to live with the queer-looking, yellow frog, nor to have her
ugly son for her husband. The little fishes which swam down in the
water had seen the frog, and had heard what she said; they put up,
therefore, their heads, to look at the little girl. The moment they
saw her they thought her very pretty; and they felt very sorry that
she should have to go down into the mud and live with the frog. No,
never should it be! They therefore went down into the water in a great
shoal, and gathered round the green stalk of the leaf upon which she
stood; they gnawed the stalk in two with their teeth, and thus the leaf
floated down the river. Slowly and quietly it floated away, a long way
off, where the frog could not come to it.

Tommelise sailed past a great many places, and the little birds sat in
the bushes, looked at her, and sang,--"What a pretty little maiden!"
The leaf on which she stood floated away farther and farther, and, at
last, she came to a foreign land.

A pretty little white butterfly stayed with her, and flew round about
her, and, at length, seated itself upon the leaf; for it knew little
Tommelise so well and she was so pleased, for she knew that now the
frog could not come near her, and the land to which she had come was
very beautiful. The sun shone upon the water, and it was like the most
lovely gold. She took off her girdle, therefore, and bound one end of
it to the butterfly, and the other end of it to the leaf, and thus she
glided on more swiftly than ever, and she stood upon the leaf as it
went.

As she was thus sailing on charmingly, a large stag-beetle came flying
towards her; it paused for a moment to look at her, then clasped its
claws around her slender waist, and flew up into a tree with her, but
the green lily leaf floated down the stream, and the white butterfly
with it, because it was fastened to it, and could not get loose.

Poor Tommelise! how frightened she was when the stag-beetle flew away
with her up into the tree! but she was most of all distressed for the
lovely white butterfly which she had fastened to the leaf. But that did
not trouble the stag-beetle at all. It seated itself upon one of the
largest green leaves of the tree, gave her the honey of the flowers
to eat, and said that she was very pretty, although she was not at
all like a stag-beetle. Before long, all the other stag-beetles that
lived in the tree came to pay her a visit; they looked at Tommelise;
and the misses stag-beetle, they examined her with their antennæ, and
said,--"Why, she has only two legs, that is very extraordinary!" "She
has no antennæ!" said the others. "She has such a thin body! Why she
looks just like a human being!" "How ugly she is!" said all the lady
stag-beetles; and yet Tommelise was exceedingly pretty.

The stag-beetle which had carried her away had thought so himself, at
first; but now, as all the others said that she was ugly, he fancied,
at last, that she was so, and would not have her, and she could now
go where she would. They flew down with her out of the tree, and set
her upon a daisy. Here she wept, because she was so ugly, and the
stag-beetles would have nothing to do with her; and yet she really was
so very lovely as nobody could imagine, as delicate and bright as the
most beautiful rose leaf!

Poor Tommelise lived all that long summer, though quite alone, in
the great wood. She wove herself a bed of grass, and hung it under a
large plantain leaf, so that the rain could not come to her; she fed
from the honey of the flowers, and drank of the dew which stood in
glittering drops every morning on the grass. Thus passed the summer
and the autumn; but now came winter, the cold, long winter. All the
birds which had sung so sweetly to her were flown away; the trees and
the flowers withered; the large plantain leaf under which she had
dwelt shrunk together, and became nothing but a dry, yellow stalk; and
she was so cold, for her clothes were in rags; and she herself was so
delicate and small!--poor Tommelise, she was almost frozen to death! It
began to snow, and every snow-flake which fell upon her was just as if
a whole drawer-full had been thrown upon us, for we are strong, and she
was so very, very small! She crept, therefore, into a withered leaf,
but that could not keep her warm; she shook with the cold.

Close beside the wood in which she now was, lay a large cornfield;
but the corn had long been carried; nothing remained but dry stubble,
which stood up on the frozen ground. It was, to her, like going into
a bare wood--Oh! how she shivered with cold! Before long she came to
the fieldmouse's door. The fieldmouse had a little cave down below the
roots of the corn-stubble, and here she dwelt warm and comfortable,
and had whole rooms full of corn, and a beautiful kitchen and a
store-closet. Poor Tommelise stood before the door, like any other
little beggar-child, and prayed for a little bit of a barley-corn, for
she had now been two whole days without having eaten the least morsel.

"Thou poor little thing!" said the fieldmouse, for she was at heart
a good old fieldmouse; "come into my warm parlor, and have a bit of
dinner with me."

How kind that seemed to Tommelise!

"Thou canst stop with me the whole winter," said the old fieldmouse;
"but then thou must be my little maid, and keep my parlor neat and
clean, and tell me tales to amuse me, for I am very fond of them!" And
Tommelise did all that the good old fieldmouse desired of her, and was
very comfortable.

"Before long we shall have a visitor," said the fieldmouse, soon after
Tommelise was settled in her place; "my neighbor is accustomed to
visit me once a week. He is much better off in the world than I am; he
has a large house, and always wears such a splendid velvet dress! If
thou couldst only manage to get him for thy husband, thou wouldst be
lucky,--but then he is blind. Thou canst tell him the very prettiest
story thou knowest."

But Tommelise gave herself no trouble about him; she did not wish to
have the neighbor, for he was only a mole. He came and paid his visits
in his black velvet dress; he was very rich and learned, the fieldmouse
said, and his dwelling-house was twenty times larger than hers; and he
had such a deal of earning, although he made but little of the sum and
the beautiful flowers; he laughed at them; but then he had never seen
them!

The fieldmouse insisted on Tommelise singing, so she sang. She sang
both "Fly, stag-beetle, fly!" and "The green moss grows by the water
side;" and the mole fell deeply in love with her, for the sake of her
sweet voice, but he did not say any thing, for he was a very discreet
gentleman.

He had lately dug a long passage through the earth, between his house
and theirs; and in this he gave Tommelise and the fieldmouse leave
to walk whenever they liked. But he told them not to be afraid of a
dead bird which lay in the passage, for it was an entire bird, with
feathers and a beak; which certainly was dead just lately, at the
beginning of winter, and had been buried exactly where he began his
passage.

The mole took a piece of touchwood in his mouth, for it shines just
like fire in the dark, and went before them, to light them in the long,
dark passage. When they were come where the dead bird lay, the mole
set his broad nose to the ground, and ploughed up the earth, so that
there was a large hole, through which the daylight could shine. In
the middle of the floor lay a dead swallow, with its beautiful wings
pressed close to its sides. Its legs and head were drawn up under the
feathers; the poor bird had certainly died of cold. Tommelise was very
sorry for it, for she was so fond of little birds; they had, through
the whole summer, sung and twittered so beautifully to her; but the
mole stood beside it, with his short legs, and said,--"Now it will
tweedle no more! It must be a shocking thing to be born a little bird;
thank goodness that none of my children have been such; for a bird
has nothing at all but its singing; and it may be starved to death in
winter!"

"Yes, that you, who are a sensible man, may well say," said the
fieldmouse; "what has the bird, with all its piping and singing, when
winter comes? It may be famished or frozen!"

Tommelise said nothing; but when the two others had turned their backs,
she bent over it, stroked aside the feathers which lay over its head,
and kissed its closed eyes.

"Perhaps it was that same swallow which sang so sweetly to me in
summer," thought she; "what a deal of pleasure it caused me, the dear,
beautiful bird!"

The mole stopped up the opening which it had made for the daylight
to come in, and accompanied the ladies home. Tommelise, however,
could not sleep in the night; so she got up out of bed, and wove a
small, beautiful mat of hay; and that she carried down and spread
over the dead bird; laid soft cotton-wool, which she had found in the
fieldmouse's parlor, around the bird, that it might lie warm in the
cold earth.

"Farewell, thou pretty little bird," said she; "farewell, and thanks
for thy beautiful song, in summer, when all the trees were green, and
the sun shone so warmly upon us!"

With this she laid her head upon the bird's breast, and the same moment
was quite amazed, for it seemed to her as if there were a slight
movement within it. It was the bird's heart. The bird was not dead; it
lay in a swoon, and now being warmed, it was reanimated.

In the autumn all the swallows fly away to the warm countries; but if
there be one which tarries behind, it becomes stiff with cold, so that
it falls down as if dead, and the winter's snow covers it.

Tommelise was quite terrified, for in comparison with her the bird
was a very large creature; but she took courage, however, laid the
cotton-wool closer around the poor swallow, and fetched a coverlet of
chrysanthemum leaves, which she had for her bed, and laid it over its
head.

Next night she listened again, and it was quite living, but so weak
that it could only open its eyes a very little, and see Tommelise, who
stood with a piece of touchwood in her hand, for other light she had
none.

"Thanks thou shalt have, thou pretty little child!" said the sick
swallow to her; "I have been beautifully revived! I shall soon recover
my strength, and be able to fly again out into the warm sunshine!"

"O," said she, "it is so cold out-of-doors! it snows and freezes! stop
in thy warm bed, and I will nurse thee!"

She brought the swallow water, in a flower-leaf, and it drank it, and
related to her how it had torn one of its wings upon a thorn-bush, and,
therefore, had not been able to fly so well as the other swallows, who
had flown far, far away, into the warm countries. It had, at last,
fallen down upon the ground; but more than that it knew not, nor how it
had come there.

During the whole winter it continued down here, and Tommelise was very
kind to it, and became very fond of it; but neither the mole nor the
fieldmouse knew any thing about it, for they could not endure swallows.

As soon as ever spring came, and the sun shone warm into the earth,
the swallow bade farewell to Tommelise, who opened the hole which the
mole had covered up. The sun shone so delightfully down into it, and
the swallow asked whether she would not go with him; she might sit upon
his back, and he would fly out with her far into the green-wood. But
Tommelise knew that it would distress the old fieldmouse if she thus
left her.

"No, I cannot," said Tommelise.

"Farewell, farewell, thou good, sweet little maiden!" said the swallow,
and flew out into the sunshine. Tommelise looked after it, and the
tears came into her eyes, for she was very fond of the swallow, and she
felt quite forlorn now it was gone.

"Quivit! quivit!" sung the bird, and flew into the green-wood.

Tommelise was very sorrowful. She could not obtain leave to go out into
the warm sunshine. The corn which had been sown in the field above the
mouse's dwelling, had grown so high that it was now like a thick wood
to her.

"Now, during this summer, thou shalt get thy wedding clothes ready,"
said the fieldmouse to her; for the old neighbor, the wealthy mole, had
presented himself as a wooer.

"Thou shalt have both woollen and linen clothes; thou shalt have both
table and body linen, if thou wilt be the mole's wife," said the old
fieldmouse.

Tommelise was obliged to sit down and spin; and the fieldmouse hired
six spiders to spin and weave both night and day. Every evening the
mole came to pay a visit, and always said that when the summer was
ended, and the sun did not shine so hotly as to bake the earth to a
stone,--yes, when the summer was over, then he and Tommelise would have
a grand wedding; but this never gave her any pleasure, for she did not
like the wealthy old gentleman. Every morning, when the sun rose, and
every evening, when it set, she stole out to the door; and if the wind
blew the ears of corn aside so that she could see the blue sky, she
thought how bright and beautiful it was out there, and she wished so
much that she could, just once more, see the dear swallow. But he never
came; he certainly had flown far, far away from the lovely green-wood.

It was now autumn, and all Tommelise's wedding things were ready.

"In four weeks thou shalt be married," said the old fieldmouse to her.
But Tommelise cried, and said that she would not have the rich mole.

"Snick, snack!" said the fieldmouse; "do not go and be obstinate, else
I shall bite thee with my white teeth! He is, indeed, a very fine
gentleman! The queen herself has not got a dress equal to his black
velvet! He has riches both in kitchen and coffer. Be thankful that thou
canst get such a one!"

So the wedding was fixed. The bridegroom was already come, in his best
black velvet suit, to fetch away Tommelise. She was to live with him
deep under ground, never to come out into the warm sunshine, for that
he could not bear. The poor child was full of sorrow; she must once
more say farewell to the beautiful sun; and she begged so hard, that
the fieldmouse gave her leave to go to the door to do so.

"Farewell, thou bright sun!" said she, and stretched forth her arms,
and went a few paces from the fieldmouse's door, for the corn was now
cut, and again there was nothing but the dry stubble.

"Farewell! farewell!" said she, and threw her small arms around a
little red flower which grew there; "greet the little swallow for me,
if thou chance to see him!"

"Quivit! quivit!" said the swallow, that very moment, above her head;
she looked up, there was the little swallow, which had just come by. As
soon as Tommelise saw it, she was very glad; she told it how unwilling
she was to marry the rich old mole, and live so deep underground, where
the sun never shone. She could not help weeping as she told him.

"The cold winter is just at hand," said the little swallow; "I am
going far away to the warm countries, wilt thou go with me? Thou canst
sit upon my back; bind thyself fast with thy girdle, and so we will
fly away from the rich mole and his dark parlor, far away over the
mountains, to the warm countries, where the sun shines more beautifully
than here, and where there always is summer, and where the beautiful
flowers are always in bloom. Only fly away with me, thou sweet little
Tommelise, who didst save my life when I lay frozen in the dark prison
of the earth!"

"Yes, I will go with thee!" said Tommelise, and seated herself upon
the bird's back, with her feet upon one of his outspread wings. She
bound her girdle to one of the strongest of his feathers, and thus
the swallow flew aloft into the air, over wood and over sea, high up
above the great mountains, where lies the perpetual snow, and Tommelise
shivered with the intensely cold air; but she then crept among the
bird's warm feathers, and only put out her little head, that she might
look at all the magnificent prospect that lay below her.

Thus they came to the warm countries. There the sun shone much brighter
than it does here; the heavens were twice as high, and upon trellis
and hedge grew the most splendid purple and green grapes. Oranges and
lemons hung golden in the woods, and myrtle and wild thyme sent forth
their fragrance; the most beautiful children, on the highways, ran
after and played with large, brilliantly-colored butterflies. But the
swallow still flew onward, and it became more and more beautiful. Among
lovely green trees, and beside a beautiful blue lake, stood a palace,
built of the shining white marble of antiquity. Vines clambered up the
tall pillars; on the topmost of these were many swallow nests, and in
one of these dwelt the very swallow which carried Tommelise.

"Here is my home!" said the swallow; "but wilt thou now seek out for
thyself one of the lovely flowers which grow below, and then I will
place thee there, and thou shalt make thyself as comfortable as thou
pleasest?"

"That is charming!" said she, and clapped her small hands.

Just by there lay a large white marble pillar, which had fallen down,
and broken into three pieces, but amongst these grew the most exquisite
large white flowers.

The swallow flew down with Tommelise, and seated her upon one of the
broad leaves,--but how amazed she was! There sat a little man in the
middle of the flower, as white and transparent as if he were of glass;
the most lovely crown of gold was upon his head, and the most beautiful
bright wings upon his shoulders; and he, too, was no larger than
Tommelise. He was the angel of the flower. In every flower lived such a
little man or woman, but this was the king of them all.

"Good heavens! how small he is!" whispered Tommelise to the swallow.
The little prince was as much frightened at the swallow, for it was,
indeed, a great, gigantic bird in comparison of him, who was so very
small and delicate; but when he saw Tommelise he was very glad, for
she was the prettiest little maiden that ever he had seen. He took,
therefore, the golden crown from off his head, and set it upon hers,
and asked her what was her name, and whether she would be his wife, and
be the queen of all the flowers? Yes, he was really and truly a little
man, quite different to the frog's son, and to the mole, with his black
velvet dress; she therefore said, Yes, to the pretty prince; and so
there came out of every flower a lady or a gentleman, so lovely that
it was quite a pleasure to see them, and brought, every one of them,
a present to Tommelise; but the best of all was a pair of beautiful
wings, of fine white pearl, and these were fastened on Tommelise's
shoulders, and thus she also could fly from flower to flower,--that was
such a delight! And the little swallow sat up in its nest and sang to
them as well as it could, but still it was a little bit sad at heart,
for it was very fond of Tommelise, and wished never to have parted
from her.

"Thou shalt not be called Tommelise!" said the angel of the flowers to
her; "it is an ugly name, and thou art so beautiful. We will call thee
Maia!"

"Farewell, farewell!" said the little swallow, and flew again forth
from the warm countries, far, far away, to Denmark. There it had a
little nest above the window of a room in which dwelt a poet, who can
tell beautiful tales; for him it sang,--"Quivit, quivit!" and from the
swallow, therefore, have we this history.







There grew a rose-tree in the middle of a garden; it was quite full of
roses; and in one of these, the prettiest of them all, dwelt an elf. He
was so very, very small, that no human eye could see him; behind every
leaf in the rose he had a sleeping-room; he was as well-formed and as
pretty as any child could be, and had wings, which reached from his
shoulders down to his feet. O, how fragrant were his chambers, and how
bright and beautiful the walls were! They were, indeed, the pale pink,
delicate rose leaves.

All day long he enjoyed himself in the warm sunshine, flew from flower
to flower, danced upon the wings of the fluttering butterfly, or
counted how many paces it was from one footpath to another, upon one
single lime leaf. What he considered as footpaths, were what we call
veins in the leaf; yes, it was an immense way for him! Before he had
finished, the sun had set; thus, he had begun too late.

It became very cold; the dew fell, and the wind blew; the best thing he
could do was to get home as fast as he could. He made as much haste as
was possible, but all the roses had closed--he could not get in; there
was not one single rose open; the poor little elf was quite terrified,
he had never been out in the night before; he always had slept in the
snug little rose leaf. Now, he certainly would get his death of cold!

At the other end of the garden he knew that there was an arbor, all
covered with beautiful honeysuckle. The flowers looked like exquisitely
painted horns; he determined to creep down into one of these, and sleep
there till morning.

He flew thither. Listen! There are two people within the bower; the
one, a handsome young man, and the other, the loveliest young lady that
ever was seen; they sat side by side, and wished that they never might
be parted, through all eternity. They loved each other very dearly,
more dearly than the best child can love either its father or mother.

They kissed each other; and the young lady wept, and gave him a rose;
but before she gave it to him she pressed it to her lips, and that with
such a deep tenderness, that the rose opened, and the little elf flew
into it, and nestled down into its fragrant chamber. As he lay there,
he could very plainly hear that they said,--Farewell! farewell! to each
other; and then he felt that the rose had its place on the young man's
breast. Oh! how his heart beat!--the little elf could not go to sleep
because the young man's heart beat so much.

The rose lay there; the young man took it forth whilst he went through
a dark wood, and kissed it with such vehemence that the little elf was
almost crushed to death; he could feel, through the leaves, how warm
were the young man's lips, and the rose gave forth its odor, as if to
the noon-day's sun.

Then came another man through the wood; he was dark and wrathful, and
was the handsome young lady's cruel brother. He drew forth from its
sheath a long and sharp dagger, and whilst the young man kissed the
rose, the wicked man stabbed him to death, and then buried him in the
bloody earth, under a lime tree.

"Now he is gone and forgotten!" thought the wicked man; "he will never
come back again. He is gone a long journey over mountains and seas; it
would be an easy thing for him to lose his life,--and he has done so!
He will never come back again, and I fancy my sister will never ask
after him."

He covered the troubled earth, in which he had laid the dead body, with
withered leaves, and then set off home again, through the dark night;
but he went not alone, as he fancied; the little elf went with him; it
sat in a withered, curled-up lime leaf, which had fallen upon the hair
of the cruel man as he dug the grave. He had now put his hat on, and,
within, it was very dark; and the little elf trembled with horror and
anger over the wicked deed.

In the early hour of morning he came home; he took off his hat, and
went into his sister's chamber; there lay the beautiful, blooming
maiden, and dreamed about the handsome young man. She loved him very
dearly, and thought that now he went over mountains and through woods.
The cruel brother bent over her; what were his thoughts we know not,
but they must have been evil. The withered lime leaf fell from his hair
down upon the bed cover, but he did not notice it; and so he went out,
that he, too, might sleep a little in the morning hour.

But the elf crept out of the withered leaf, crept to the ear of the
sleeping maiden, and told her, as if in a dream, of the fearful murder;
described to her the very place where he had been stabbed, and where
his body lay; it told about the blossoming lime tree close beside, and
said,--"And that thou mayest not fancy that this is a dream which I
tell thee, thou wilt find a withered lime leaf upon thy bed!"

And she found it when she woke.

Oh! what salt tears she wept, and she did not dare to tell her sorrow
to any one. The window stood open all day, and the little elf could
easily go out into the garden, to the roses and all the other flowers;
but for all that, he resolved not to leave the sorrowful maiden.

In the window there stood a monthly rose, and he placed himself in one
of its flowers, and there could be near the poor young lady who was so
unhappy. Her brother came often into her room, but she could not say
one word about the great sorrow of her heart.

As soon as it was night she stole out of the house, went to the wood,
and to the very place where the lime tree stood; tore away the dead
leaves from the sod, dug down, and found him who was dead! Oh! how she
wept and prayed our Lord, that she, too, might soon die!

Gladly would she have taken the body home with her,--but that she could
not; so she cut away a beautiful lock of his hair, and laid it near her
heart!

Not a word she said; and when she had laid earth and leaves again upon
the dead body, she went home; and took with her a little jasmine tree,
which grew, full of blossoms, in the wood where he had met with his
death.

As soon as she returned to her chamber, she took a very pretty
flower-pot, and, filling it with mould, laid in it the beautiful
curling hair, and planted in it the jasmine tree.

"Farewell, farewell!" whispered the little elf; he could no longer bear
to see her grief, so he flew out into the garden, to his rose; but its
leaves had fallen; nothing remained of it but the four green calix
leaves.

"Ah! how soon it is over with all that is good and beautiful!" sighed
he. At last he found a rose,--which became his house; he crept among
its fragrant leaves, and dwelt there.

Every morning he flew to the poor young lady's window, and there she
always stood by the flower-pot, and wept. Her salt tears fell upon the
jasmine twigs, and every day, as she grew paler and paler, they became
more fresh and green; one cluster of flower-buds grew after another;
and then the small white buds opened into flowers, and she kissed them.
Her cruel brother scolded her, and asked her whether she had lost her
senses. He could not imagine why she always wept over that flower-pot,
but he did not know what secret lay within its dark mould. But she knew
it; she bowed her head over the jasmine bloom, and sank exhausted on
her couch. The little rose-elf found her thus, and, stealing to her
ear he whispered to her about the evening in the honeysuckle arbor,
about the rose's fragrance, and the love which he, the little elf, had
for her. She dreamed so sweetly, and while she dreamed, the beautiful
angel of death conveyed her spirit away from this world, and she was in
heaven with him who was so dear to her.

The jasmine buds opened their large white flowers; their fragrance was
wondrously sweet.

When the cruel brother saw the beautiful blossoming tree, he took it,
as an heir-loom of his sister, and set it in his sleeping-room, just
beside his bed, for it was pleasant to look at, and the fragrance was
so rich and uncommon. The little rose-elf went with it, and flew from
blossom to blossom. In every blossom there dwelt a little spirit, and
to it he told about the murdered young man, whose beautiful curling
locks lay under their roots; told about the cruel brother, and the
heart-broken sister.

"We know all about it," said the little spirit of each flower; "we know
it! we know it! we know it!" and with that they nodded very knowingly.

The rose-elf could not understand them, nor why they seemed so merry,
so he flew out to the bees which collected honey, and told them all the
story. The bees told it to their queen, who gave orders that, the next
morning, they should all go and stab the murderer to death with their
sharp little daggers; for that seemed the right thing to the queen-bee.

But that very night, which was the first night after the sister's
death, as the brother slept in his bed, beside the fragrant jasmine
tree, every little flower opened itself, and all invisibly came forth
the spirits of the flower, each with a poisoned arrow; first of all
they seated themselves by his ear, and sent such awful dreams to his
brain as made him, for the first time, tremble at the deed he had done.
They then shot at him with their invisible poisoned arrows.

"Now we have avenged the dead!" said they, and flew back to the white
cups of the jasmine-flowers.

As soon as it was morning, the window of the chamber was opened, and in
came the rose-elf, with the queen of the bees and all her swarm.

But he was already dead; there stood the people round about his bed,
and they said--"That the strong-scented jasmine had been the death of
him!"

Then did the rose-elf understand the revenge which the flowers had
taken, and he told it to the queen-bee, and she came buzzing, with all
her swarm, around the jasmine-pot.

The bees were not to be driven away; so one of the servants took up the
pot to carry it out, and one of the bees stung him, and he let the pot
fall, and it was broken in two.

Then they all saw the beautiful hair of the murdered young man; and so
they knew that he who lay in the bed was the murderer.

The queen-bee went out humming into the sunshine, and she sung about
how the flowers had avenged the young man's death; and that behind
every little flower-leaf is an eye which can see every wicked deed.

Old and young, think on this! and so, Fare ye well.






There was a king's son: nobody had so many, or such beautiful books
as he had. Every thing which had been done in this world he could
read about, and see represented in splendid pictures. He could give
a description of every people and every country; but--where was the
Garden of Paradise?--of that he could not learn one word; and that it
was of which he thought most.

His grandmother had told him, when he was quite a little boy, and first
began to go to school, that every flower in the Garden of Paradise
was the most delicious cake; one was history, another geography, a
third, tables, and it was only needful to eat one of these cakes, and
so the lesson was learned; and the more was eaten of them, the better
acquainted they were with history, geography, and tables.

At that time he believed all this; but when he grew a bigger boy, and
had learned more, and was wiser, he was quite sure that there must be
some other very different delight in this Garden of Paradise.

"Oh! why did Eve gather of the tree of knowledge? why did Adam eat the
forbidden fruit? If it had been me, I never would have done so! If it
had been me, sin should never have entered into the world!"

So said he, many a time, when he was young; so said he when he was much
older! The Garden of Paradise filled his whole thoughts.

One day he went into the wood; he went alone, for that was his greatest
delight.

The evening came. The clouds drew together; it began to rain as if
the whole heavens were one single sluice, of which the gate was open;
it was quite dark, or like night in the deepest well. Now, he slipped
in the wet grass; now, he tumbled over the bare stones, which were
scattered over the rocky ground. Every thing streamed with water; not a
dry thread remained upon the prince. He was obliged to crawl up over
the great blocks of stone, where the water poured out of the wet moss.
He was ready to faint. At that moment he heard a remarkable sound, and
before him he saw a large, illuminated cave. In the middle of it burned
a fire, so large that a stag might have been roasted at it,--and so it
was; the most magnificent stag, with his tall antlers, was placed upon
a spit, and was slowly turning round between two fir trees, which had
been hewn down. A very ancient woman, tall and strong, as if she had
been a man dressed up in woman's clothes, sat by the fire, and threw
one stick after another upon it.

"Come nearer!" said she, seeing the prince; "sit down by the fire, and
dry thy clothes."

"It is bad travelling to-night," said the prince; and seated himself on
the floor of the cave.

"It will be worse yet, when my sons come home!" replied the woman.
"Thou art in the cave of the winds; my sons are the four winds of the
earth; canst thou understand?"

"Where are thy sons?" asked the prince.

"Yes, it is not well to ask questions, when the questions are
foolish," said the woman. "My sons are queer fellows; they play at
bowls with the clouds, up in the big room there;" and with that she
pointed up into the air.

"Indeed!" said the prince, "and you talk somewhat gruffly, and are not
as gentle as the ladies whom I am accustomed to see around me."

"Yes, yes, they have nothing else to do!" said she; "I must be gruff
if I would keep my lads in order! But I can do it, although they have
stiff necks. Dost thou see the four sacks which hang on the wall; they
are just as much afraid of them, as thou art of the birch-rod behind
the looking-glass! I can double up the lads, as I shall, perhaps, have
to show thee, and so put them into the bags; I make no difficulties
about that; and so I fasten them in, and don't let them go running
about, for I do not find that desirable. But here we have one of them."

With that in came the northwind; he came tramping in with an icy
coldness; great, round hail-stones hopped upon the floor, and
snow-flakes flew round about. He was dressed in a bear's-skin jerkin
and hose; a hat of seal's-skin was pulled over his ears; long icicles
hung from his beard, and one hail-stone after another fell down upon
his jerkin-collar.

"Do not directly go to the fire!" said the prince, "else thou wilt have
the frost in thy hands and face!"

"Frost!" said the northwind, and laughed aloud. "Frost! that is
precisely my greatest delight! What sort of a little dandified chap art
thou? What made thee come into the winds' cave?"

"He is my guest!" said the old woman; "and if that explanation does not
please thee, thou canst get into the bag!--now thou knowest my mind!"

This had the desired effect; and the northwind sat down, and began to
tell where he was come from, and where he had been for the greater part
of the last month.

"I come from the Arctic Sea; I have been upon Bear Island with the
Russian walrus-hunters. I lay and slept whilst they sailed up to the
North Cape. When I now and then woke up a little, how the storm-birds
flew about my legs! They are ridiculous birds! they make a quick stroke
with their wings, and then keep them immoveably expanded, and yet they
get on."

"Don't be so diffuse!" said the winds' mother; "and so you came to Bear
Island."

"That is a charming place; that is a floor to dance upon!" roared the
northwind, "as flat as a pan-cake! Half covered with snow and dwarfish
mosses, sharp stones and leg-bones of walruses and ice-bears lie
scattered about, looking like the arms and legs of giants. One would
think that the sun never had shone upon them. I blew the mist aside a
little, that one might see the erection there; it was a house, built
of pieces of wrecks, covered with the skin of the walrus, the fleshy
side turned outward; upon the roof sat a living ice-bear, and growled.
I went down to the shore, and looked at the birds' nests, in which were
the unfledged young ones, which screamed, and held up their gaping
beaks; with that I blew down a thousand throats, and they learned to
shut their mouths. Down below tumbled about the walruses, like gigantic
ascarides, with pigs' heads and teeth an ell long!"

"Thou tell'st it very well, my lad!" said the mother; "it makes my
mouth water to hear thee!"

"So the hunting began," continued the northwind. "The harpoons were
struck into the breast of the walrus, so that the smoking blood started
like a fountain over the iron. I then thought of having some fun! I
blew, and let my great ships, the mountain-like fields of ice, shut in
the boats. How the people shrieked and cried; but I cried louder than
they! The dead bodies of their fish, their chests and cordage, were
they obliged to throw out upon the ice! I showered snow-flakes upon
them, and left them, in their imprisoned ship, to drive southward with
their prey, there to taste salt-water. They will never again come to
Bear Island!"

"It was very wrong of thee!" said the winds' mother.

"The others can tell what good I have done!" said he! "And there we
have my brother from the west; I like him the best of them all; he
smacks of the sea, and has a blessed coldness about him!"

"Is it the little zephyr?" inquired the prince.

"Yes, certainly, it is the zephyr!" said the old woman; "but he is not
so little now. In old times he was a very pretty lad, but that is all
over now."

He looked like a wild man, but he had one of those pads round his
head, which children used to wear formerly, to prevent them from being
hurt. He held in his hand a mahogany club, which had been cut in the
mahogany woods of America.

"Where dost thou come from?" asked the mother.

"From the forest-wilderness," said he, "where the prickly lianas makes
a fence around every tree; where the water-snakes lie in the wet grass,
and man seems superfluous!"

"What didst thou do there?"

"I looked at the vast river, saw how it was hurled from the cliffs,
became mist, and was thrown back into the clouds, to become rainbows. I
saw the wild buffalo swim in the river; but the stream bore him along
with it; madly did it bear him onward, faster and faster, to where the
river was hurled down the cliffs--down, also, must he go! I bethought
myself, and blew a hurricane, so the old trees of the forest were torn
up, and carried down, too, and became splinters!"

"And didst thou do any thing else?" asked the old woman.

"I tumbled head-over-heels in the Savannas; I have patted the wild
horses, and shook down cocoa-nuts! Yes, yes, I could tell tales, if
I would! But one must not tell all one knows, that thou know'st, old
lady!" said he, and kissed his mother so roughly that he nearly knocked
her backward from her chair; he was a regularly wild fellow.

Now came in the southwind, with a turban on his head, and a flying
Bedouin-cloak.

"It is dreadfully cold out here!" said he, and threw more wood on the
fire; "one can very well tell that the northwind has come first!"

"Here it is so hot, that one might roast an ice-bear!" said the
northwind.

"You are an ice-bear, yourself!" replied the southwind.

"Do you want to go in the bags?" asked the old woman; "sit down on the
stone, and tell us where thou hast been."

"In Africa, mother," said he; "I have been lion-hunting, with the
Hottentots, in Caffreland. What grass grows in the fields there, as
green as the olive! There dances the gnu; and the ostrich ran races
with me, but my legs were the nimblest. I came to the deserts of yellow
sand, which look like the surface of the ocean. There I met a caravan!
They had killed their last camel to get water to drink, but they only
found a little. The sun burned above them, and the sand beneath their
feet. There was no limit to the vast desert. I then rolled myself in
the fine, loose sand, and whirled it up in great pillars--that was a
dance! You should have seen how close the dromedaries stood together,
and the merchants pulled their kaftans over their heads. They threw
themselves down before me, as if before Allah, their god. They are now
buried; a pyramid of sand lies heaped above them; I shall, some day,
blow it away, and then the sun will bleach their white bones, and so
travellers can see that there have been human beings before them in the
desert; without this it were hard to believe it!"

"Thou, also, hast done badly!" said the mother. "March into the bag!"
and before the southwind knew what she would be at, she had seized him
by the body, and thrust him into the bag. The bag, with him in it,
rolled about on the floor; but she seized it, held it fast, and sat
down upon it; so he was forced to lie still.

"They are rough fellows!" said the prince.

"So they are!" returned she; "but I can chastise them! But here we have
the fourth!"

This was the eastwind, and he was dressed like a Chinese.

"Indeed! so thou comest from that corner, dost thou?" asked the mother;
"I fancied that thou hadst been to the Garden of Paradise."

"I shall go there to-morrow," said the eastwind. "It will be a hundred
years, to-morrow, since I was there. I am now come from China, where
I have been dancing around the porcelain tower, till all the bells
have rung. Down in the street the royal officers were beating people;
bamboos were busy with their shoulders, and from the first, down to the
ninth rank, they cried out--'Thanks, my fatherly benefactor!' but they
did not mean any thing by it; and I rung the bells, and sang--'Tsing,
tsang, tsu! Tsing, tsang, tsu!'"

"Thou art merry about it," said the old woman; "it is a good thing that
to-morrow morning thou art going to the Garden of Paradise; that always
mends thy manners! Drink deeply of wisdom's well, and bring a little
bottleful home with thee, for me!"

"That I will!" said the eastwind; "but why hast thou put my brother
from the south down in the bag? Let him come out! I want him to tell
me about the phoenix; the princess of the Garden of Paradise always
likes to hear about it, when I go, every hundred years, to see her.
Open the bag! and so thou shalt be my sweetest mother, and I will give
thee a pocketful of tea, very fresh and green, which I myself gathered,
on the spot!"

"Nay, for the sake of the tea, and because thou art my darling, I will
open the bag!"

She did so, and the southwind crept out, and looked so ashamed, because
the foreign prince had seen him.

"There hast thou a palm leaf for the princess," said the southwind;
"that leaf was given to me by the phoenix bird, the only one in the
whole world. He has written upon it, with his beak, the whole history
of his life during the hundred years that he lived; now she can read it
herself. I saw how the phoenix himself set fire to his nest, and sat
in it and burned like a Hindoo widow. How the dry branches crackled!
There was a smoke and an odor. At length it flamed up into a blaze; the
old phoenix was burned to ashes, but its egg lay glowingly red in the
fire; then it burst open with a great report, and the young one flew
out; now it is the regent of all birds, and the only phoenix in the
whole world. He has bitten a hole in the palm leaf which I gave thee;
it is his greeting to the princess."

"Let us now have something to strengthen us!" said the mother of the
winds; and with that they all seated themselves, and ate of the roasted
stag; and the prince sat at the side of the eastwind, and therefore
they soon became good friends.

"Listen, and tell me," said the prince, "what sort of a princess is
that of which thou hast said so much, and who lives in the Garden of
Paradise?"

"Ho! ho!" said the eastwind, "if you wish to go there, you can fly with
me there to-morrow morning. This, however, I must tell you, there has
been no human being there since Adam and Eve's time. You have heard of
them, no doubt, in the Bible."

"Yes, to be sure!" said the prince.

"At the time when they were driven out," said the eastwind, "the
Garden of Paradise sank down into the earth; but it still preserved its
warm sunshine, its gentle air, and its wonderful beauty. The queen of
the fairies lives there; there lies the Island of Bliss, where sorrow
never comes, and where it is felicity to be. Seat thyself on my back
to-morrow morning, and so I will take thee with me. I think that will
be permitted. But now thou must not talk any more, for I want to go to
sleep!"

And so they all slept together.

Early the next morning the prince awoke, and was not a little amazed to
find himself already high above the clouds. He sat upon the back of the
eastwind, which kept firm hold of him. They were so high in the air,
that the woods and fields, the rivers and sea, showed themselves as if
upon a large illustrated map.

"Good-morning," said the eastwind; "thou mightest have slept a little
bit longer, for there is not much to see upon the flat country below
us, unless thou hast any pleasure in counting the churches, which stand
like dots of chalk upon the green board."

They were the fields and meadows which he called the green board.

"It was very ill-mannered that I did not say good-by to thy mother and
brothers," said the prince.

"There is no blame when people are asleep!" said the eastwind; and with
that flew away faster than ever. One could have heard, as they went
over the woods, how the trees shook their leaves and branches; one
could have heard, on lakes and seas that they were passing over, for
the billows heaved up more loftily, and the great ships bowed down into
the water like sailing swans.

Towards evening, when it grew dusk, it was curious to look down to
the great cities; the lights burned within them, now here, now there;
it was exactly like the piece of paper which children burn to see the
multitude of little stars in it, which they call people coming out of
church. The prince clapped his hands, but the eastwind told him not
to do so, but much better to keep fast hold; or else he might let him
fall, and then, perhaps, he would pitch upon a church spire.

The eagle flew lightly through the dark wood, but the eastwind flew
still lighter; the Cossack on his little horse sped away over the
plain, but the prince sped on more rapidly by another mode.

"Now thou canst see the Himalaya," said the eastwind; "they are the
highest mountains in Asia; we shall not be long before we come to the
Garden of Paradise!"

With that they turned more southward, and perceived the fragrance of
spice and flowers. Figs and pomegranates grew wild, and the wild vine
hung with its clusters of blue and red grapes. There they both of them
alighted, stretched themselves on the tender grass, where the flowers
nodded, as if they would say,--"Welcome back again!"

"Are we now in the Garden of Paradise?" asked the prince.

"No, certainly not," replied the eastwind; "but we shall soon come
there. Dost thou see the winding field-path there, and the great cavern
where the vine leaves hang like rich green curtains? We shall go
through there. Wrap thee in thy cloak; here the sun burns, but one step
more and it is icy cold! The birds which fly past the cavern have the
one, outer wing, in the warm summer, and the other, inner one, in the
cold winter!"

"Really! And that is the way to the Garden of Paradise!" said the
prince.

They now went into the cave. Ha! how ice-cold it was; but that did
not last long, for the southwind spread out his wings, and they gave
the warmth of the brightest fire. Nay, what a cavern it was! The huge
masses of stone, from which the water dripped, hung above them in the
most extraordinary shapes; before long it grew so narrow that they were
obliged to creep upon hands and feet; again, and it expanded itself
high and wide, like the free air. It looked like a chapel of the dead,
with its silent organ pipes and organ turned to stone!

"Then we go the way of the dead to the Garden of Paradise," said the
prince; but the eastwind replied not a word, but pointed onward, and
the most lovely blue light beamed towards them. The masses of stone
above them became more and more like a chiselled ceiling, and at last
were bright, like a white cloud in the moonshine. They now breathed the
most deliciously mild atmosphere, as if fresh from the mountains, and
as fragrant as the roses of the valley.

A river flowed on as clear as the air itself, and the fishes were of
gold and silver; crimson eels, whose every movement seemed to emit blue
sparks of fire, played down in the water, and the broad leaf of the
waterlily had all the colors of the rainbow; the flower itself was an
orange-colored burning flame, to which the water gave nourishment, in
the same manner as the oil keeps the lamp continually burning. A firm
bridge of marble, as artistically and as exquisitely built as if it had
been of pearl and glass, led across the water to the Island of Bliss,
where the Garden of Paradise bloomed.

The eastwind took the prince in his arms and carried him over. The
flowers and the leaves began the most exquisite song about his youth,
so incomparably beautiful as no human voice could sing.

Were they palm trees or gigantic water plants which grew there? Trees
so large and succulent the prince had never seen. Long garlands of the
most wondrously formed twining plants, such as one only sees painted
in rich colors and gold upon the margins of old missals, or which
twined themselves through their initial letters, were thrown from tree
to tree. It was altogether the most lovely and fantastic assemblage of
birds, flowers, and graceful sweeping branches. In the grass just by
them was a flock of peacocks, with outspread glittering tails. Yes, it
was really so!--No, when the prince touched them he observed that they
were not animals, but plants; it was the large plantain, which has the
dazzling hues of the peacock's tail! Lions and tigers gambolled about,
like playful cats, between the green hedges, which sent forth an odor
like the blossom of the olive; and the lions and tigers were tame; the
wild wood-dove glittered like the most beautiful pearl, and with its
wings playfully struck the lion on the cheek; and the antelope, which
usually is so timid, stood and nodded with its head, as if it too
should like to join in the sport.

Now came the Fairy of Paradise; her garments shone like the sun,
and her countenance was as gentle as that of a glad mother when she
rejoices over her child. She was youthful; and the most beautiful
girls attended her, each of whom had a beaming star in her hair.

The eastwind gave her a written leaf from the phoenix, and her eyes
sparkled with joy; she took the prince by the hand, and led him into
her castle, the walls of which were colored like the most splendid leaf
of the tulip when held against the sun. The ceiling itself was a large
glittering flower, and the longer one gazed into it the deeper seemed
its cup. The prince stepped up to the window and looked through one of
the panes; there he saw the Tree of Knowledge, with the snake and Adam
and Eve standing close beside it.

"Are they not driven out?" asked he; and the Fairy smiled, and
explained to him that upon every pane of glass had time burned in its
picture, but not as we are accustomed to see it,--no, here all was
living; the trees moved their leaves, and people came and went as in
reality. He looked through another pane, and there was Jacob's dream,
where the ladder reached up to heaven, and the angels with their large
wings ascended and descended upon it. Yes, every thing which had been
done in this world lived and moved in these panes of glass. Such
pictures as these could only be burnt in by time.

The Fairy smiled, and led him into a large and lofty hall, the walls
of which seemed transparent, and were covered with pictures, the one
more lovely than the other. These were the millions of the blessed,
and they smiled and sang so that all flowed together into one melody.
The uppermost were so small that they seemed less than the smallest
rosebud, when it looks like a pin-prick on paper. In the middle of
the hall stood a great tree with drooping luxuriant branches; golden
apples, large and small, hung like oranges among the green leaves.
It was the Tree of Knowledge; of the fruit of which Adam and Eve had
eaten. On every leaf hung a crimson drop of dew; it was as if the tree
wept tears of blood.

"Let us now go into the boat," said the Fairy; "it will be refreshing
to us out upon the heaving water. The boat rocks, but does not move
from the place, and all the regions of the world pass before our eyes."

And it was wonderful to see how the coast moved! There came the lofty,
snow-covered Alps, with clouds and dark pine trees; horns resounded
with such a deep melancholy, and peasants _jodelled_ sweetly in the
valleys. Now the banyan tree bowed its long depending branches over the
boat; black swans swam upon the water, and the strangest animals and
flowers showed themselves along the shores: this was Australia, the
fifth quarter of the world, which glided past, with its horizon bounded
by blue mountains. They heard the song of the priests, and saw the
savages dancing to the sound of the drum and bone-tubes. The pyramids
of Egypt now rose into the clouds; overturned pillars and sphinxes,
half buried in sand, sailed past them. The northern lights flamed above
the Hecla of the north; they were such magnificent fireworks as no one
could imitate. The prince was delighted, and in fact, he saw a hundred
times more than what we have related.

"And may I always remain here?" asked he.

"That depends upon thyself," replied the Fairy. "If thou do not, like
Adam, take of the forbidden thing, then thou mayest always remain here."

"I shall not touch the apples upon the Tree of Knowledge," said the
prince; "here are a thousand fruits more beautiful than that. I should
never do as Adam did!"

"Prove thyself, and if thou be not strong enough, then return with the
eastwind which brought thee; he is about to go back again, and will
not return here for a whole century. That time will pass to thee in
this place as if it were only a hundred minutes, but it is time enough
for temptation and sin. Every evening when I am about to leave thee,
I shall say to thee, 'Follow me!' and beckon to thee. But follow me
not, for with every step would the temptation become stronger, and thou
wouldst come into the hall where grows the Tree of Knowledge. I sleep
beneath its fragrant depending branches; if thou follow me, if thou
impress a kiss upon me, then will Paradise sink deep in the earth, and
it will be lost to thee. The sharp winds of the desert will howl around
thee, cold rain will fall upon thy hair, and sorrow and remorse will be
thy punishment!"

"I will remain here!" said the prince; so the eastwind kissed his brow,
and said, "Be strong! and then we shall meet again here in a hundred
years!"

The eastwind spread out his large wings, which shone like the harvest
moon in autumn, or the northern lights in the cold winter.

"Farewell! farewell!" resounded from the flowers and the trees. The
storks and the pelicans flew after, in a line like a waving riband, and
accompanied him to the boundary of the Garden.

"Now we begin our dance!" said the Fairy; "at the conclusion, when I
have danced with thee, thou wilt see that when the sun sets I shall
beckon to thee, and thou wilt hear me say, 'Follow me!' But do it not!
That is thy temptation--that is sin to thee! During a hundred years
I shall every evening repeat it. Every time that thou resistest the
temptation wilt thou gain more strength, till at length it will cease
to tempt thee. This evening is the first trial! Remember that I have
warned thee!"

The Fairy led him into a great hall of white transparent lilies; in
each one the yellow stamina was a little golden harp, which rung with
clear and flute-like tones. The most beautiful maidens floated in the
dance, and sung how glorious was the gift of life; that they who were
purified by trial should never die, and that the Garden of Paradise
for them should bloom forever!

The sun went down, the whole heaven became of gold, which gave to
the lilies the splendor of the most beautiful roses. The prince felt
a bliss within his heart such as he had never experienced before.
He looked, and the background of the hall opened, and the Tree of
Knowledge stood there with a splendor which dazzled his eyes. A song
resounded from it, low and delicious as the voice of his mother, and it
seemed as if she sung, "My child! my beloved child!"

Then beckoned the Fairy, and said, "Follow, follow me!"

He started towards her--he forgot his promise--forgot it all the first
evening! "Follow, follow me!" alone sounded in his heart. He paused
not--he hastened after her.

"I will," said he; "there is really no sin in it! Why should I not do
so? I will see her! There is nothing lost if I only do not kiss her,
and that I will not do--for I have a firm will!"

The Fairy put aside the green, depending branches of the Tree of
Knowledge, and the next moment was hidden from sight.

"I have not sinned," said the prince, "and I will not!" He also put
aside the green, depending branches of the Tree of Knowledge, and
there sat the Fairy with her hands clasped, and the tears on her dark
eyelashes!

"Weep not for me!" said he passionately. "There can be no sin in what
I have done; weep not!" and he kissed away her tears, and his lips
touched hers!

At once a thunder crash was heard--a loud and deep thunder crash, and
all seemed hurled together! The beautiful, weeping Fairy, the Garden of
Paradise, sunk--sunk so deep--so deep!--and the prince saw it sink in
the deep night! Like a little gleaming star he saw it shining a long
way off! The coldness of death went through his limbs; he closed his
eyes, and lay long as if dead!

The cold rain fell upon his face; the keen wind blew around his head;
his thoughts turned to the past.

"What have I done!" sighed he; "I have sinned like Adam! Sinned, and I
have forfeited Paradise!"

He opened his eyes; the star so far off, which had shone to him like
the sunken Paradise, he now saw was the morning star in heaven.

He raised himself up, and was in the great wood near to the cave of the
winds; the old woman sat by his side, she looked angrily at him, and
lifted up her arm.

"Already! the first time of trial!" said she: "I expected as much! Yes,
if thou wast a lad of mine, I would punish thee!"

"Punishment will come!" said a strong old man, with a scythe in his
hand, and with large, black wings!--"I shall lay him in his coffin, but
not now. Let him return to the world, atone for his sin, and become
good in deed, and not alone in word. I shall come again; if he be then
good and pious, I will take him above the stars, where blooms the
Garden of Paradise; and he shall enter in at its beautiful pearl gates,
and be a dweller in it forever and ever; but if then his thoughts are
evil, and his heart full of sin, he will sink deeper than Paradise
seemed to sink--sink deeper, and that forever!--Farewell!"

The prince arose--the old woman was gone--the cave of the winds was
nothing now but a hollow in the rock; he wondered how it had seemed so
large the night before; the morning star had set, and the sun shone
with a clear and cheerful light upon the little flowers and blades of
grass, which were heavy with the last night's rain; the birds sang, and
the bees hummed in the blossoms of the lime tree. The prince walked
home to his castle. He told his grandmother how he had been to the
Garden of Paradise, and what had happened to him there, and what the
old man with the black wings had said.

"This will do thee more good than many book-lessons," said the old
grandmother; "never let it go out of thy memory!"--and the prince never
did.







Once upon a time, there was a bunch of brimstone matches, which were
exceedingly proud, because they were of high descent; their ancestral
tree, that is to say, the great fir tree, of which they were little
bits of chips, had been a great, old tree in the forest. The brimstone
matches now lay beside the kitchen fender, together with the tinder and
an old iron pot, and were speaking of their youth.

"Yes, we were then on the green branch," said they; "then we were
really and truly on a green branch; every morning and evening we
drank diamond tea, that was the dew; every day we had sunshine, if
the sun shone, and all the little birds told us tales. We could very
well observe also, that we were rich; for the common trees were only
dressed in summer, but our family had a good stock of green clothing
both winter and summer. But then came the wood-cutters--that was a
great revolution, and our family was cut up root and branch; the main
head of the family, he took a place as mainmast in a magnificent ship,
which sailed round the world wherever it would; the other branches,
some took one place, and some took another; and we have now the post of
giving light to the common herd; and, therefore, high-born as we are,
are we now in the kitchen."

"Yes, it was different with me," said the iron pot, when the matches
were silent; "as soon as ever I came into the world I was cleaned and
boiled many a time! I care for the solid, and am properly spoken of as
first in the house. My only pleasure is, as soon as dinner is over, to
lie clean and bright upon the shelf, and head a long row of comrades.
If I except the water-bucket, which now and then goes down in the yard,
we always live in-doors. Our only newsmonger is the coal-box; but it
talks so violently about government and the people!--yes, lately there
was an old pot, which, out of horror of it, fell down and broke to
pieces!"

"Thou chatterest too much!" interrupted the tinder, and the steel
struck the flint until sparks came out. "Should we not have a merry
evening?"

"Yes; let us talk about who is the most well-bred among us," said the
brimstone matches.

"No, I don't think it right to talk about ourselves," said an earthen
jug; "let us have an evening's entertainment. I will begin; I will
tell something which everybody has experienced; people can do that so
seldom, and it is so pleasant. By the Baltic sea--"

"That is a beautiful beginning!" said all the talkers; "it will
certainly be a history which we shall like."

"Yes, then I passed my youth in a quiet family; the furniture was of
wood; the floors were scoured; they had clean curtains every fortnight."

"How interestingly you tell it!" said the dusting-brush; "one can
immediately tell that the narrator is a lady, such a thread of purity
always runs through their relations."

"Yes, that one can feel!" said the water-bucket, and made a little skip
of pleasure on the floor.

And the earthen jug continued her story, and the end of it was like the
beginning.

All the talkers shook for pleasure; and the dusting-brush took green
parsley leaves from the dust-heap, and crowned the jug; for he knew
that it would vex the others; and thinks he to himself, "If I crown her
to-day, she will crown me to-morrow!"

"Now we will dance," said the fire-tongs; and began dancing. Yes,
indeed! and it is wonderful how he set one leg before the other; the
old shoehorn, which hung on a hook, jumped up to see it. "Perhaps I,
too, may get crowned," said the fire-tongs; and it was crowned.

"They are only the rabble!" thought the brimstone matches.

The tea-urn was then asked to sing; but it said it had got a cold,
and it could not sing unless it was boiling; but it was nothing but
an excuse, because it did not like to sing, unless it stood upon the
table, in grand company.

In the window there sat an old pen, which the servant-girl was
accustomed to write with: there was nothing remarkable about it; it was
dipped deep into the ink-stand. "If the tea-urn will not sing," said
the pen, "then she can let it alone! Outside there hangs a nightingale
in a cage, which can sing, and which has not regularly learned any
thing; but we will not talk scandal this evening!"

"I think it highly unbecoming," said the tea-kettle, which was the
kitchen singer, and half-sister to the tea-urn, "that such a foreign
bird should be listened to! Is it patriotic? I will let the coal-box
judge."

"It only vexes me," said the coal-box; "it vexes me so much, that no
one can think! Is this a proper way to spend an evening? Would it not
be much better to put the house to rights? Every one go to his place,
and I will rule; that will produce a change!"

"Yes, let us do something out of the common way!" said all the things
together.

At that very moment the door opened. It was the servant-girl, and so
they all stood stock still; not a sound was heard; but there was not a
pot among them that did not know what they might have done, and how
genteel they were.

"If I might have had my way," thought they, "then it would have been a
regularly merry evening!"

The servant-girl took the brimstone matches, and put fire to them.
Bless us! how they sputtered and burst into a flame!

"Now every one can see," thought they, "that we take the first rank!
What splendor we have! what brilliancy!"--and with that they were burnt
out.







"My poor flowers are quite dead," said little Ida. "They were so
beautiful last evening, and now all their leaves hang withered. How can
that be?" asked she from the student who sat on the sofa. She was very
fond of him, for he knew the most beautiful tales, and could cut out
such wonderful pictures; he could cut out hearts with little dancing
ladies in them; flowers he could cut out, and castles with doors that
would open. He was a very charming student.

"Why do the flowers look so miserably to-day?" again asked she, and
showed him a whole bouquet of withered flowers.

"Dost thou not know what ails them?" said the student; "the flowers
have been to a ball last night, and therefore they droop so."

"But flowers cannot dance," said little Ida.

"Yes, when it is dark, and we are all asleep, then they dance about
merrily; nearly every night they have a ball!" said the student.

"Can no child go to the ball?" inquired Ida.

"Yes," said the student, "little tiny daisies and lilies of the valley."

"Where do the prettiest flowers dance?" asked little Ida.

"Hast thou not," said the student, "gone out of the city gate to the
great castle where the king lives in summer, where there is a beautiful
garden, with a great many flowers in it? Thou hast certainly seen the
swans which come sailing to thee for little bits of bread. There is a
regular ball, thou mayst believe!"

"I was in the garden yesterday with my mother," said Ida, "but all the
leaves were off the trees, and there were hardly any flowers at all!
Where are they? In summer I saw such a many."

"They are gone into the castle," said the student. "Thou seest, as
soon as the king and all his court go away to the city, the flowers go
directly out of the garden into the castle, and are very merry. Thou
shouldst see them! The two most beautiful roses sit upon the throne,
and are king and queen; all the red cockscombs place themselves on
each side, and stand and bow, they are the chamberlains. Then all the
prettiest flowers come, and so there is a great ball; the blue violets
represent young midshipmen and cadets, they dance with hyacinths and
crocuses, which they call young ladies. The tulips and the great yellow
lilies, they are old ladies who look on, and see that the dancing goes
on properly, and that every thing is beautiful."

"But is there nobody who gives the flowers any thing while they dance
in the king's castle?" asked little Ida.

"There is nobody who rightly knows about it," said the student. "In the
summer season at night the old castle-steward goes regularly through
the castle; he has a great bunch of keys with him, but as soon as
ever the flowers hear the jingling of his keys, they are quite still,
hide themselves behind the long curtains, and peep out with their
little heads. 'I can smell flowers somewhere about,' says the old
castle-steward, 'but I cannot see them!'"

"That is charming!" said little Ida, and clapped her hands; "but could
not I see the flowers?"

"Yes," said the student, "only remember the next time thou art there to
peep in at the window, and then thou wilt see them. I did so one day;
there lay a tall yellow Turk's-cap lily on a sofa; that was a court
lady."

"And can the flowers in the botanic garden go out there? Can they come
such a long way?" asked Ida.

"Yes, that thou mayst believe," said the student; "for if they like
they can fly. Hast thou not seen the pretty butterflies, the red, and
yellow, and white ones, they look almost like flowers,--and so they
have been; they have grown on stalks high up in the air, and have shot
out leaves as if they were small wings, and so they fly, and when they
can support them well, then they have leave given them to fly about by
day. That thou must have seen thyself! But it is very possible that the
flowers in the botanic garden never have been into the king's castle,
nor know how merry they are there at night. And now, therefore, I will
tell thee something that will put the professor of botany who lives
beside the garden into a perplexity. Thou knowest him, dost thou not?
Next time thou goest into his garden, do thou tell one of the flowers
that there will be a great ball at the castle; it will tell it to its
neighbor, and it to the next, and so on till they all know, and then
they will all fly away. Then the professor will come into the garden,
and will not find a single flower, and he will not be able to imagine
what can have become of them."

"But how can one flower tell another? flowers cannot talk," said little
Ida.

"No, they cannot properly talk," replied the student, "and so they have
pantomime. Hast not thou seen when it blows a little the flowers nod
and move all their green leaves; that is just as intelligible as if
they talked."

"Can the professor understand pantomime?" inquired Ida.

"Yes, that thou mayst believe! He came one morning down into his
garden, and saw a tall yellow nettle pantomiming to a beautiful red
carnation, and it was all the same as if it had said, 'Thou art
so handsome, that I am very fond of thee!' The professor was not
pleased with that, and struck the nettle upon its leaves, which are
its fingers; but they stung him so, that from that time he has never
meddled with a nettle again."

"That is delightful!" said little Ida, and laughed.

"Is that the stuff to fill a child's mind with!" exclaimed the tiresome
chancellor, who was come in on a visit, and now sat on the sofa. He
could not bear the student, and always grumbled when he saw him cutting
out the beautiful and funny pictures,--now a man hanging on a gallows,
with a heart in his hand, because he had stolen hearts; and now an
old lady riding on a horse, with her husband sitting on her nose. The
cross old chancellor could not bear any of these, and always said as he
did now, "Is that the stuff to cram a child's head with! It is stupid
fancy!"

But for all that, little Ida thought that what the student had told her
about the flowers was so charming, that she could not help thinking
of it. The flowers hung down their heads, because they had been at the
ball, and were quite worn out. So she took them away with her, to her
other playthings, which lay upon a pretty little table, the drawers of
which were all full of her fine things. In the doll's bed lay her doll,
Sophie, asleep; but for all that little Ida said to her, "Thou must
actually get up, Sophie, and be thankful to lie in the drawer to-night,
for the poor flowers are ill, and so they must lie in thy bed, and,
perhaps, they will then get well."

With this she took up the doll, but it looked so cross, and did not say
a single word; for it was angry that it must be turned out of its bed.

So Ida laid the flowers in the doll's bed, tucked them in very nicely,
and said, that now they must lie quite still, and she would go and get
tea ready for them, and they should get quite well again by to-morrow
morning; and then she drew the little curtains close round the bed,
that the sun might not blind them.

All the evening long she could not help thinking about what the
student had told her; and then when she went to bed herself, she drew
back the curtains from the windows where her mother's beautiful flowers
stood, both hyacinths and tulips, and she whispered quite softly to
them, "I know that you will go to the ball to-night!" but the flowers
looked as if they did not understand a word which she said, and did not
move a leaf--but little Ida knew what she knew.

When she was in bed, she lay for a long time thinking how delightful it
would be to see the beautiful flowers dancing in the king's castle.

"Can my flowers actually have been there?" and with these words she
fell asleep. In the night she woke; she had been dreaming about the
flowers, and the student, who the chancellor said stuffed her head
with nonsense. It was quite silent in the chamber where Ida lay; the
night lamp was burning on the table, and her father and her mother were
asleep.

"Are my flowers now lying in Sophie's bed?" said she to herself; "how
I should like to know!" She lifted herself up a little in bed, and
looked through the door, which stood ajar, and in that room lay the
flowers, and all her playthings. She listened, and it seemed to her as
if some one was playing on the piano, which stood in that room, but so
softly and so sweetly as she had never heard before.

"Now, certainly, all the flowers are dancing in there," said she; "O,
how I should like to go and see!" but she did not dare to get up, lest
she should wake her father and mother. "If they would only just come in
here!" said she; but the flowers did not come, and the music continued
to play so sweetly. She could not resist it any longer, for it was so
delightful; so she crept out of her little bed, and went, quite softly,
to the door, and peeped into the room. Nay! what a charming sight she
beheld!

There was not any night lamp in that room, and yet it was quite light;
the moon shone through the window into the middle of the floor, and
it was almost as light as day. All the hyacinths and tulips stood
in two long rows along the floor; they were not any longer in the
window, where stood the empty pots. All the flowers were dancing so
beautifully, one round another, on the floor; they made a regular
chain, and took hold of one another's green leaves when they swung
round. But there sat at the piano a great yellow lily, which little Ida
had certainly seen in the summer, for she remembered very well that the
student had said, "Nay, how like Miss Lina it is!" and they had all
laughed at him. But now it seemed really to Ida as if the tall yellow
lily resembled the young lady, and that she, also, really did just as
if she were playing; now she laid her long yellow face on one side, now
on the other, and nodded the time to the charming music. Not one of
them observed little Ida.

She now saw a large blue crocus spring upon the middle of the table
where the playthings lay, go straight to the doll's bed, and draw aside
the curtains, where lay the sick flowers; but they raised themselves up
immediately, and nodded one to another, as much as to say, that they
also would go with them and dance. The old snapdragon, whose under lip
was broken off, stood up and bowed to the pretty flowers, which did not
look poorly at all, and they hopped down among the others, and were
very merry.

All at once it seemed as if something had fallen down from the table.
Ida looked towards it; it was the Easter-wand, which had heard the
flowers. It was also very pretty; upon the top of it was set a little
wax-doll, which had just such a broad hat upon its head as that which
the chancellor wore. The Easter-wand hopped about upon its three wooden
legs, and stamped quite loud, for it danced the mazurka; and there was
not one of the flowers which could dance that dance, because they were
so light and could not stamp.

The wax-doll upon the Easter-wand seemed to become taller and stouter,
and whirled itself round above the paper flowers on the wand, and
exclaimed, quite loud, "Is that the nonsense to stuff a child's mind
with! It is stupid fancy!"--And the wax-doll was precisely like the
cross old chancellor with the broad hat, and looked just as yellow
and ill-tempered as he did; but the paper flowers knocked him on the
thin legs, and with that he shrunk together again, and became a little
tiny wax-doll. It was charming to see it! little Ida could hardly help
laughing. The Easter-wand continued to dance, and the chancellor was
obliged to dance too; it mattered not whether he made himself so tall
and big, or whether he were the little yellow wax-doll, with the great
black hat. Then came up the other flowers, especially those which had
lain in Sophie's bed, and so the Easter-rod left off dancing.

At that very moment a great noise was heard within the drawer where
Ida's doll, Sophie, lay, with so many of her playthings; and with this
the snapdragon ran up to the corner of the table, lay down upon his
stomach, and opened the drawer a little bit. With this Sophie raised
herself up, and looked round her in astonishment.

"There is a ball here!" said she, "and why has not anybody told me of
it?"

"Wilt thou dance with me?" said the snapdragon.

"Yes, thou art a fine one to dance with!" said she, and turned her back
upon him. So she seated herself upon the drawer, and thought that to
be sure some one of the flowers would come and engage her, but not one
came; so she coughed a little, hem! hem! hem! but for all that not one
came. The snapdragon danced alone, and that was not so very bad either!

As now none of the flowers seemed to see Sophie, she let herself
drop heavily out of the drawer down upon the floor,--and that gave a
great alarum; all the flowers at once came running up and gathered
around her, inquiring if she had hurt herself; and they were all so
exceedingly kind to her, especially those which had lain in her bed.
But she had not hurt herself at all, and all Ida's flowers thanked her
for the beautiful bed, and they paid her so much attention, and took
her into the middle of the floor, where the moon shone, and danced with
her, while all the other flowers made a circle around them. Sophie was
now very much delighted; and she said they would be very welcome to her
bed, for that she had not the least objection to lie in the drawer.

But the flowers said, "Thou shalt have as many thanks as if we used it,
but we cannot live so long! To-morrow we shall be quite dead; but now
tell little Ida," said they, "that she must bury us down in the garden,
where the canary-bird lies, and so we shall grow up again next summer,
and be much prettier than ever!"

"No, you shall not die," said Sophie, and the flowers kissed her. At
that very moment the room door opened, and a great crowd of beautiful
flowers came dancing in. Ida could not conceive where they came from;
they must certainly have been all the flowers out of the king's castle.
First of all went two most magnificent roses, and they had little gold
crowns on; they were a king and a queen; then came the most lovely
gilliflowers and carnations, and they bowed first on this side and
then on that. They had brought music with them; great big poppies
and pionies blew upon peapods till they were red in the face. The
blue-bells and the little white convolvuluses rung as if they were
musical bells. It was charming music. Then there came in a many other
flowers, and they danced all together; the blue violets and the red
daisies, the anemones and the lilies of the valley; and all the flowers
kissed one another: it was delightful to see it!

At last they all bade one another good-night, and little Ida also went
to her bed, where she dreamed about every thing that she had seen.

The next morning, when she got up, she went as quickly as she could
to her little table, to see whether the flowers were there still;
she drew aside the curtains from the little bed;--yes, there they all
lay together, but they were quite withered, much more than yesterday.
Sophie lay in the drawer, where she had put her; she looked very sleepy.

"Canst thou remember what thou hast to tell me?" said little Ida; but
Sophie looked quite stupid, and did not say one single word.

"Thou art not at all good," said Ida, "and yet they all danced with
thee."

So she took a little paper box, on which were painted beautiful birds,
and this she opened, and laid in it the dead flowers.

"This shall be your pretty coffin," said she, "and when my Norwegian
cousins come, they shall go with me and bury you, down in the garden,
that next summer you may grow up again, and be lovelier than ever!"

The Norwegian cousins were two lively boys, who were called Jonas and
Adolph; their father had given them two new cross-bows, and these they
brought with them to show to Ida. She told them about the poor flowers
which were dead, and so they got leave to bury them. The two boys went
first, with their cross-bows on their shoulders; and little Ida came
after, with the dead flowers in the pretty little box. Down in the
garden they dug a little grave. Ida kissed the flowers, and then put
them in their box, down into the earth, and Jonas and Adolph stood with
their cross-bows above the grave, for they had neither arms nor cannon.






There were, once upon a time, five-and-twenty tin soldiers; they were
all brothers, for they were born of an old tin spoon. They held their
arms in their hands, and their faces were all alike; their uniform was
red and blue, and very beautiful. The very first word which they heard
in this world, when the lid was taken off the box in which they lay,
was, "Tin soldiers!" This was the exclamation of a little boy, who
clapped his hands as he said it. They had been given to him, for it was
his birthday, and he now set them out on the table. The one soldier was
just exactly like another; there was only one of them that was a little
different; he had only one leg, for he had been the last that was made,
and there was not quite tin enough; yet he stood just as firmly upon
his one leg as they did upon their two, and he was exactly the one who
became remarkable.

Upon the table on which he had set them out, there stood many other
playthings; but that which was most attractive to the eye, was a pretty
little castle of pasteboard. One could look through the little windows
as if into the rooms. Outside stood little trees, and round about it a
little mirror, which was to look like a lake; swans of wax swam upon
this, and were reflected in it. It was altogether very pretty; but the
prettiest thing of all was the little young lady who stood at the open
castle door, for she was a dancer; and she lifted one of her legs so
high in the air, that the tin soldier might almost have fancied that
she had only one leg, like himself.

"That is a wife for me!" thought he, "but she is a great lady;
she lives in a castle, I in nothing but a box; and then we are
five-and-twenty of us, there is no room for her! Yet I must make her
acquaintance!"

And so he set himself behind a snuff-box, which stood on the table, and
from thence he could very plainly see the pretty little lady, which
remained standing upon one leg, without ever losing her balance.

That continued all the evening, and then the other tin soldiers were
put into their box, and the people of the house went to bed. The
playthings now began to amuse themselves; they played at company
coming, at fighting, and at having a ball. The tin soldiers rattled
about in their box, for they wanted to be with the rest of the things,
but they could not get the box lid off. The nutcrackers knocked about
the gingerbread nuts, and the slate-pencil laughed with the slate; it
was so entertaining that the canary-bird awoke, and began to chatter
with them also, but she chattered in verse. The only two which did not
move from their place were the tin soldier and the little dancing lady.
She kept herself so upright, standing on the point of her toe, with
both her arms extended; and he stood just as steadily upon his one leg,
and his eyes did not move from her for one moment.

It now struck twelve o'clock, and crash! up sprang the lid of the
snuff-box, but there was no snuff in it; no, there was a little black
imp--it was a jack-in-the-box.

"Tin soldier!" said the imp, "keep thy eyes to thyself!"

But the tin soldier pretended that he did not hear.

"Yes, we shall see in the morning!" said the imp.

And now it was the next morning, and the children got up, and they set
the tin soldier in the window,--and either it was the imp, or else it
was a sudden gust of wind, but the casement burst open, and out went
the tin soldier, head foremost, down from the third story! It was a
horrible fall, he turned head over heels, and remained standing with
his one leg up in the air, and with his bayonet down among the stones
of a sink.

The maid-servant and the little boy went down directly to seek for him,
but although they almost trod upon him, still they could not see him.
If the tin soldier had only shouted out, "Here I am!" they would have
found him; but he did not think it would be becoming in him to shout
out when he had his uniform on.

It now began to rain; one drop fell heavier than another; it was a
regular shower. When it was over there came up two street boys.

"Look here!" said one of them, "here lies a tin soldier. He shall have
a sail!"

So they made a boat of a newspaper, and set the tin soldier in it, and
now he sailed down the kennel; the two lads ran, one on each side, and
clapped their hands. Dear me! what billows there were in the uneven
kennel, and what a torrent there was, for it had poured down with rain!
The paper boat rocked up and down, and whirled round so fast! The tin
soldier must have trembled, but he showed no fear at all, he never
changed his countenance, and stood holding his weapon in his hand.

Just then the boat was driven under a large arch of the kennel, and it
was as dark to the tin soldier as if he had been in his box.

"Where am I now come to?" thought he; "yes, yes, it is all that imp's
doing! Ah! if the little dancing lady were only in the boat, I would
not mind if it were twice as dark!"

At that moment up came a great big water-rat, which lived under the
kennel's archway.

"Have you a passport?" asked the rat. "Out with your passport!"

But the tin soldier said not a word, and stood stock still, shouldering
his arms. The boat shot past, and the rat came after. Ha! how he set
his teeth, and cried to the sticks and the straws,--

"Stop him! stop him! he has not paid the toll! He has not shown his
passport!"

But the stream got stronger and stronger. The tin soldier could already
see daylight at the end of the tunnel, but at the same time he heard a
roaring sound, which might well have made a bolder man than he tremble.
Only think! where the tunnel ended, the water of the kennel was poured
down into a great canal; which would be, for him, just as dangerous as
for us to sail down a great waterfall!

He was now come so near to it that he could no longer stand upright.
The boat drove on; the tin soldier held himself as stiff as he could;
nobody could have said of him that he winked with an eye. The boat
whirled round three times, and filled with water to the very edge--it
must sink! The tin soldier stood up to his neck in water! Deeper and
deeper sank the boat, the paper grew softer and softer! Now went the
water above the soldier's head!--he thought of the little dancing lady,
whom he should never see more, and it rung in the tin soldier's ear,--

    "Fare thee well, thou man of war!
    Death with thee is dealing!"

The paper now went in two, and the tin soldier fell through; and at
that moment was swallowed by a large fish!

Nay, how dark it was now in there! It was darker than in the kennel
archway, and much narrower. But the tin soldier was steadfast to his
duty; and he lay there, shouldering his arms. The fish twisted about,
and made the most horrible sort of movements; at last it became quite
still; a flash of lightning seemed to go through it. Light shone quite
bright, and some one shouted aloud, "Tin soldier!"

The fish had been caught, taken to market, sold, and brought into the
kitchen, where the servant-girl cut it up with a great knife. She
took the soldier, who was as alive as ever, between her two fingers,
and carried it into the parlor, where she showed them all what a
remarkable little man had been travelling about in the stomach of the
fish! But the tin soldier was not proud. They set him upon the table,
and there--Nay, how wonderfully things happen in this world!--the tin
soldier was in the self-same room he had been in before; he saw the
self-same child, and the self-same playthings on the table; the grand
castle, with the pretty little dancing lady standing at the door. She
was standing still upon one leg, with the other raised; she also was
constant. It quite affected the tin soldier, he was ready to shed tin
tears, only that would not have been becoming in him. He looked at her,
and she looked at him, but neither of them said a word.

At that very moment one of the little boys took up the tin soldier, and
threw it into the stove. There was no reason for his doing so; it must
certainly have been the jack-in-the-box that was the cause of it.

The tin soldier stood amid the flames, and felt a great heat, but
whether it was actual fire, or love, he knew not. All color was quite
gone out of him; whether from his long journeying, or whether from
care, there is no saying. He looked at the little dancing lady, and
she looked at him; he felt that he was melting away, but for all that,
he stood shouldering his arms. With that the door of the room suddenly
opened, and a draught of wind carried away the dancer. Like a sylph she
flew into the stove to the tin soldier; became, all at once, flame,
and was gone! The tin soldier melted to a little lump; and when the
servant, the next day, was carrying out the ashes, she found him like
a little tin heart: of the dancing lady, on the contrary, there was
nothing but the ground on which she had stood, and that was burned as
black as a coal.







Upon the last house in a little town there stood a stork's nest. The
stork-mother sat in the nest, with her four young ones, which stuck out
their heads, with their little black beaks, for their beaks had not yet
become red. Not far off, upon the ridge of the house roof, stood the
stork-father, as stiffly and proudly as possible; he had tucked up one
leg under him, for though that was rather inconvenient, still he was
standing as sentinel. One might have fancied that he was carved out of
wood, he stood so stock still.

"It looks, certainly, very consequential," thought he to himself, "that
my wife should have a sentinel to her nest! Nobody need know that I am
her husband; they will think, of course, that I commanded the sentinel
to stand here. It looks so very proper!" And having thus thought, he
continued to stand on one leg.

A troop of little boys were playing down in the street below, and when
they saw the storks, the boldest lad amongst them began to sing, and
at last they all sang together, that old rhyme about the storks, which
the children in Denmark sing; but they sang it now, because it had just
come into their heads:--

    "Stork, stork on one leg,
    Fly home to thy egg;
    Mrs. Stork she sits at home,
    With four great, big young ones;
    The eldest shall be hung,
    The second have its neck wrung;
    The third shall be burned to death,
    The fourth shall be murdered!"

"Only hear what those lads sing!" said the little storks; "they sing
that we shall be hanged and burned!"

"Do not vex yourselves about that," said the stork-mother; "don't
listen to them, and then it does not matter."

But the boys continued to sing, and they pointed with their fingers
to the stork; there was one boy, however, among them, and his name was
Peter, and he said that it was a sin to make fun of the storks, and he
would not do it.

The stork-mother consoled her young ones thus: "Don't annoy yourselves
about that. Look how funnily your father stands on one leg!"

"We are so frightened!" said the young ones, and buried their heads
down in the nest.

The next day, when the children assembled again to play, they saw the
storks, and they began their verse:--

    "The second have its neck wrung;
    The third shall be burned to death!"

"Shall we be hanged and burned?" asked the young storks.

"No, certainly not!" said the mother. "You will learn to fly; I will
exercise you; and so we shall take you out into the meadows, and go a
visiting to the frogs, that make courtesies to us in the water; they
sing--'koax! koax!' and so we eat them up; that is a delight!"

"And how so?" asked the young storks.

"All the storks which are in the whole country assemble," said the
mother, "and so the autumn manoeuvres begin; every one must be clever
at flying; that is of great importance, for those that cannot fly are
pecked to death by the general, with his beak; and, therefore, it is
well to learn something before the exercise begins."

"And so we really may be murdered! as the boys said; and hark! now they
are singing it again."

"Listen to me, and not to them!" said the stork-mother. "After the
great manoeuvre, we fly away to the warm countries--O, such a long
way off, over mountains and woods! We fly to Egypt, where there are
three-cornered stone houses, which go up in a point above the clouds;
they are called pyramids, and are older than any stork can tell. There
is a river which overflows its banks, and so the country becomes all
mud. One goes in the mud, and eats frogs."

"O!" said all the young ones.

"Yes, that is so delightful! One does nothing at all but eat, all day
long; and whilst we are so well off, in this country there is not a
single green leaf upon the trees; here it is, then, so cold; and the
very clouds freeze into pieces, and fall down in little white rags!"

That was the snow which she meant, but she could not explain it more
intelligibly.

"Will it freeze the naughty boys into bits?" asked the young ones.

"No, it will not freeze them into bits, but it will pretty nearly do
so; and they will be obliged to sit in dark rooms and cough. You, on
the contrary, all that time, can be flying about in the warm countries,
where there are flowers and warm sunshine!"

Some time had now passed, and the young ones were so large that they
could stand up in the nest and look about them, and the stork-father
came flying every day with nice little frogs and snails, and all the
stork-delicacies which he could find. O, it was extraordinary what
delicious morsels he got for them. He stretched out his head, clattered
with his beak, as if it had been a little rattle, and thus he told them
tales about the marshes.

"Listen to me; now you must learn to fly," said the stork-mother, one
day; and so all the four young ones were obliged to get out of the
nest upon the ridge of the house; and how dizzy they were; how they
balanced themselves with their wings, and for all that were very near
falling!

"Look at me," said the mother, "you must hold your heads thus! and thus
must you set your wings! Now! one, two! one, two! This it is which must
help you out into the world!"

With this she flew a little way, and the young ones made a little
clumsy hop--bump!--there lay they, for their bodies were heavy.

"I cannot fly!" said one of the young ones; "it's no use my trying!"
and crept up to the nest again.

"Wilt thou be frozen to death here, when winter comes?" asked the
mother. "Shall the boys come and hang thee, and burn thee, and wring
thy neck? Shall I go and call them?"

"O, no!" said the young stork; and so hopped again on the roof, like
the others.

On the third day after that it could regularly fly a little, and so
they thought that they could now rest awhile in the air. They tried to
do so, but--bump!--there they tumbled, and so they were obliged to
flutter their wings again.

The boys were now down in the street once more, and sung their rhyme:--

    "Stork, stork, fly."

"Shall not we fly down and peck their eyes out?" said the young ones.

"No, let them be," said the mother, "and listen to me, that is far
wiser. One, two, three! Now we fly round, higher than ever! One, two,
three! Now to the left of the chimney!--see, that was very well done!
and the last stroke of the wings was so beautiful and correct, that I
will give you leave to go down to the marsh with me, to-morrow! There
will come a great number of pleasant stork-families there, with their
children; let me have the happiness of seeing that mine are the nicest,
and that they can make a bow and courtesy; that looks so well, and
gains respect!"

"But shall we not have revenge on the naughty boys?" inquired the young
storks.

"Let them sing what they like!" said the mother; "you will fly amid the
clouds, go to the land of the pyramids, when they must freeze, and
neither have a green leaf left, nor a sweet apple!"

"Yes, but we will be revenged!" whispered they one to another, and then
went out again to exercise.

Of all the boys in the street there was not one who sung the jeering
rhymes about the storks so much as he who first began it; and he was a
very little one, and was not more than six years old. The young storks
thought to be sure that he must be a hundred years old, for he was so
much larger than either their mother or their father; and they, poor
things, knew nothing about how old children and great men might be. All
their revenge, they determined, should be taken upon this boy; he was
the first to begin, and he it was who always sang. The young storks
were very much irritated, and the more they were determined on revenge,
the less they said of it to their mother. Their mother, they thought,
would at last grant their wishes, but they would leave it till the last
day they were in the country.

"We must see how you conduct yourselves in the great manoeuvre,"
said the mother; "if you fail in that, then the general will run you
through with his beak, and then the boys will be right in one way, at
least. Now let us see."

"Yes, thou shalt see!" said the young ones; and so they took great
pains and practised every day, and flew so beautifully and so lightly
that it was charming to see them.

Now came the autumn; and all the storks began to assemble to fly away
into the warm countries, while we have winter. That was a manoeuvre!
Over wood and town went they, just to see how they could fly. The young
storks performed so expertly that they could discern very well both
frogs and snakes. That was the very best test of skill. "Frogs and
snakes, therefore, they should eat;" and they did so.

"Now let us have revenge," said they.

"Leave off talking of revenge," said the mother. "Listen to me, which
is a great deal better. Do not you remember the good little boy who
said, when the others sung, 'that it was a sin to make fun of the
storks?' let us reward him, that is better than having revenge."

"Yes, let us reward him," said the young storks.

"He shall have, next summer, a nice little sister, such a beautiful
little sister as never was seen!--Will not that be a reward for him?"
said the mother.

"It will," said the young ones; "a sweet little sister he shall have!"

"And as he is called Peter," continued the mother, "so shall you also
be called Peter altogether."

And that which she said was done. The little boy had the loveliest
of little sisters next year; and, from that time, all the storks in
Denmark were called Peter; and so are they to this day.


BOOK OF NONSENSE

By Edward Lear



         There was an Old Derry down Derry,
         Who loved to see little folks merry;
         So he made them a Book,
         And with laughter they shook,
         At the fun of that Derry down Derry!




          TO THE GREAT-GRANDCHILDREN,
          GRAND-NEPHEWS, AND GRAND-NIECES
          OF EDWARD, 13th EARL OF DERBY,

          THIS BOOK OF DRAWINGS AND VERSES

          (The greater part of which were originally
          made and composed for their parents,)

          IS DEDICATED BY THE AUTHOR,

          EDWARD LEAR





1.

               There was an Old Man with a beard,
               Who said, "It is just as I feared!--
               Two Owls and a Hen,
               Four Larks and a Wren,
               Have all built their nests in my beard!"




2.

               There was a Young Lady of Ryde,
               Whose shoe-strings were seldom untied;
               She purchased some clogs,
               And some small spotty dogs,
               And frequently walked about Ryde.




3.

               There was an Old Man with a nose,
               Who said, "If you choose to suppose,
               That my nose is too long,
               You are certainly wrong!"
               That remarkable Man with a nose.




4.

               There was an Old Man on a hill,
               Who seldom, if ever, stood still;
               He ran up and down,
               In his Grandmother's gown,
               Which adorned that Old Man on a hill.




5.

               There was a Young Lady whose bonnet,
               Came untied when the birds sate upon it;
               But she said, "I don't care!
               All the birds in the air
               Are welcome to sit on my bonnet!"




6.

               There was a Young Person of Smyrna,
               Whose Grandmother threatened to burn her;
               But she seized on the Cat,
               And said, "Granny, burn that!
               "You incongruous Old Woman of Smyrna!"




7.

               There was an Old Person of Chili,
               Whose conduct was painful and silly;
               He sate on the stairs,
               Eating apples and pears,
               That imprudent Old Person of Chili.




8.

               There was an Old Man with a gong,
               Who bumped at it all the day long;
               But they called out, "O law!
               You're a horrid old bore!"
               So they smashed that Old Man with a gong.




9.

               There was an Old Lady of Chertsey,
               Who made a remarkable curtsey;
               She twirled round and round,
               Till she sunk underground,
               Which distressed all the people of Chertsey.




10.

               There was an Old Man in a tree,
               Who was horribly bored by a Bee;
               When they said, "Does it buzz?"
               He replied, "Yes, it does!
               "It's a regular brute of a Bee!"




11.

               There was an Old Man with a flute,
               A sarpint ran into his boot;
               But he played day and night,
               Till the sarpint took flight,
               And avoided that man with a flute.




12.

               There was a Young Lady whose chin,
               Resembled the point of a pin:
               So she had it made sharp,
               And purchased a harp,
               And played several tunes with her chin.




13.

               There was an Old Man of Kilkenny,
               Who never had more than a penny;
               He spent all that money,
               In onions and honey,
               That wayward Old Man of Kilkenny.




14.

               There was an Old Person of Ischia,
               Whose conduct grew friskier and friskier;
               He danced hornpipes and jigs,
               And ate thousands of figs,
               That lively Old Person of Ischia.




15.

               There was an Old Man in a boat,
               Who said, "I'm afloat! I'm afloat!"
               When they said, "No! you ain't!"
               He was ready to faint,
               That unhappy Old Man in a boat.




16.

               There was a Young lady of Portugal,
               Whose ideas were excessively nautical;
               She climbed up a tree,
               To examine the sea,
               But declared she would never leave Portugal.




17.

               There was an Old Man of Moldavia,
               Who had the most curious behaviour;
               For while he was able,
               He slept on a table,
               That funny Old Man of Moldavia




18.

               There was an Old Man of Madras,
               Who rode on a cream-coloured ass;
               But the length of its ears,
               So promoted his fears,
               That it killed that Old Man of Madras.




19.

               There was an Old Person of Leeds,
               Whose head was infested with beads;
               She sat on a stool,
               And ate gooseberry fool,
               Which agreed with that person of Leeds.




20.

               There was an Old Man of Peru,
               Who never knew what he should do;
               So he tore off his hair,
               And behaved like a bear,
               That intrinsic Old Man of Peru.




21.

               There was an Old Person of Hurst,
               Who drank when he was not athirst;
               When they said, "You'll grow fatter,"
               He answered, "What matter?"
               That globular Person of Hurst.




22.

               There was a Young person of Crete,
               Whose toilette was far from complete;
               She dressed in a sack,
               Spickle-speckled with black,
               That ombliferous person of Crete.




23.

               There was an Old Man of the Isles,
               Whose face was pervaded with smiles;
               He sung high dum diddle,
               And played on the fiddle,
               That amiable Man of the Isles.




24.

               There was an Old Person of Buda,
               Whose conduct grew ruder and ruder;
               Till at last, with a hammer,
               They silenced his clamour,
               By smashing that Person of Buda




25.

               There was an Old Man of Columbia,
               Who was thirsty, and called out for some beer;
               But they brought it quite hot,
               In a small copper pot,
               Which disgusted that man of Columbia.




26.

               There was a young Lady of Dorking,
               Who bought a large bonnet for walking;
               But its colour and size,
               So bedazzled her eyes,
               That she very soon went back to Dorking.




27.

               There was an Old Man who supposed,
               That the street door was partially closed;
               But some very large rats,
               Ate his coats and his hats,
               While that futile old gentleman dozed.




28.

               There was an Old Man of the West,
               Who wore a pale plum-coloured vest;
               When they said, "Does it fit?"
               He replied, "Not a bit!"
               That uneasy Old Man of the West.




29.

               There was an Old Man of the Wrekin,
               Whose shoes made a horrible creaking;
               But they said, "Tell us whether,
               Your shoes are of leather,
               Or of what, you Old Man of the Wrekin?"




30.

               There was a Young Lady whose eyes,
               Were unique as to colour and size;
               When she opened them wide,
               People all turned aside,
               And started away in surprise.




31.

               There was a Young Lady of Norway,
               Who casually sat in a doorway;
               When the door squeezed her flat,
               She exclaimed, "What of that?"
               This courageous Young Lady of Norway.




32.

               There was an Old Man of Vienna,
               Who lived upon Tincture of Senna;
               When that did not agree,
               He took Camomile Tea,
               That nasty Old Man of Vienna.




33.

               There was an Old Person whose habits,
               Induced him to feed upon Rabbits;
               When he'd eaten eighteen,
               He turned perfectly green,
               Upon which he relinquished those habits.




34.

               There was an old person of Dover,
               Who rushed through a field of blue Clover;
               But some very large bees,
               Stung his nose and his knees,
               So he very soon went back to Dover.




35.

               There was an Old Man of Marseilles,
               Whose daughters wore bottle-green veils;
               They caught several Fish,
               Which they put in a dish,
               And sent to their Pa at Marseilles.




36.

               There was an Old Person of Cadiz,
               Who was always polite to all ladies;
               But in handing his daughter,
               He fell into the water,
               Which drowned that Old Person of Cadiz.




37.

               There was an Old Person of Basing,
               Whose presence of mind was amazing;
               He purchased a steed,
               Which he rode at full speed,
               And escaped from the people of Basing.




38.

               There was an Old Man of Quebec,
               A beetle ran over his neck;
               But he cried, "With a needle,
               I'll slay you, O beadle!"
               That angry Old Man of Quebec.




39.

               There was an Old Person of Philae,
               Whose conduct was scroobious and wily;
               He rushed up a Palm,
               When the weather was calm,
               And observed all the ruins of Philae.




40.

               There was a Young Lady of Bute,
               Who played on a silver-gilt flute;
               She played several jigs,
               To her uncle's white pigs,
               That amusing Young Lady of Bute.




41.

               There was a Young Lady whose nose,
               Was so long that it reached to her toes;
               So she hired an Old Lady,
               Whose conduct was steady,
               To carry that wonderful nose.




42.

               There was a Young Lady of Turkey,
               Who wept when the weather was murky;
               When the day turned out fine,
               She ceased to repine,
               That capricious Young Lady of Turkey.




43.

               There was an Old Man of Apulia,
               Whose conduct was very peculiar;
               He fed twenty sons,
               Upon nothing but buns,
               That whimsical Man of Apulia.




44.

               There was an Old Man with a poker,
               Who painted his face with red oker;
               When they said, "You're a Guy!"
               He made no reply,
               But knocked them all down with his poker.




45.

               There was an Old Person of Prague,
               Who was suddenly seized with the plague;
               But they gave him some butter,
               Which caused him to mutter,
               And cured that Old Person of Prague.




46.

               There was an Old Man of the North,
               Who fell into a basin of broth;
               But a laudable cook,
               Fished him out with a hook,
               Which saved that Old Man of the North.




47.

               There was a Young Lady of Poole,
               Whose soup was excessively cool;
               So she put it to boil,
               By the aid of some oil,
               That ingenious Young Lady of Poole.




48.

               There was an Old Person of Mold,
               Who shrank from sensations of cold;
               So he purchased some muffs,
               Some furs and some fluffs,
               And wrapped himself from the cold.




49.

               There was an Old Man or Nepaul,
               From his horse had a terrible fall;
               But, though split quite in two,
               By some very strong glue,
               They mended that Man of Nepaul.




50.

               There was an old Man of th' Abruzzi,
               So blind that he couldn't his foot see;
               When they said, "That's your toe,"
               He replied, "Is it so?"
               That doubtful old Man of th' Abruzzi.




51.

               There was an Old Person of Rhodes,
               Who strongly objected to toads;
               He paid several cousins,
               To catch them by dozens,
               That futile Old Person of Rhodes.




52.

               There was an Old Man of Peru,
               Who watched his wife making a stew;
               But once by mistake,
               In a stove she did bake,
               That unfortunate Man of Peru.




53.

               There was an Old Man of Melrose,
               Who walked on the tips of his toes;
               But they said, "It ain't pleasant,
               To see you at present,
               You stupid Old Man of Melrose."




54.

               There was a Young Lady of Lucca,
               Whose lovers completely forsook her;
               She ran up a tree,
               And said, "Fiddle-de-dee!"
               Which embarrassed the people of Lucca.




55.

               There was an old Man of Bohemia,
               Whose daughter was christened Euphemia;
               Till one day, to his grief,
               She married a thief,
               Which grieved that old Man of Bohemia.




56.

               There was an Old Man of Vesuvius,
               Who studied the works of Vitruvius;
               When the flames burnt his book,
               To drinking he took,
               That morbid Old Man of Vesuvius.




57.

               There was an Old Man of Cape Horn,
               Who wished he had never been born;
               So he sat on a chair,
               Till he died of despair,
               That dolorous Man of Cape Horn.




58.

               There was an Old Lady whose folly,
               Induced her to sit in a holly;
               Whereon by a thorn,
               Her dress being torn,
               She quickly became melancholy.




59.

               There was an Old Man of Corfu,
               Who never knew what he should do;
               So he rushed up and down,
               Till the sun made him brown,
               That bewildered Old Man of Corfu.




60.

               There was an Old Man of the South,
               Who had an immoderate mouth;
               But in swallowing a dish,
               That was quite full of fish,
               He was choked, that Old Man of the South.




61.

               There was an Old Man of the Nile,
               Who sharpened his nails with a file;
               Till he cut off his thumbs,
               And said calmly, "This comes--
               Of sharpening one's nails with a file!"




62.

               There was an Old Person of Rheims,
               Who was troubled with horrible dreams;
               So, to keep him awake,
               They fed him with cake,
               Which amused that Old Person of Rheims.




63.

               There was an Old Person of Cromer,
               Who stood on one leg to read Homer;
               When he found he grew stiff,
               He jumped over the cliff,
               Which concluded that Person of Cromer.




64.

               There was an Old Person of Troy,
               Whose drink was warm brandy and soy;
               Which he took with a spoon,
               By the light of the moon,
               In sight of the city of Troy.




65.

               There was an Old Man of the Dee,
               Who was sadly annoyed by a flea;
               When he said, "I will scratch it,"
               They gave him a hatchet,
               Which grieved that Old Man of the Dee.




66.

               There was an Old Man of Dundee,
               Who frequented the top of a tree;
               When disturbed by the crows,
               He abruptly arose,
               And exclaimed, "I'll return to Dundee."




67.

               There was an Old Person of Tring,
               Who embellished his nose with a ring;
               He gazed at the moon,
               Every evening in June,
               That ecstatic Old Person of Tring.




68.

               There was an Old Man on some rocks,
               Who shut his wife up in a box;
               When she said, "Let me out,"
               He exclaimed, "Without doubt,
               You will pass all your life in that box."




69.

               There was an Old Man of Coblenz,
               The length of whose legs was immense;
               He went with one prance,
               From Turkey to France,
               That surprising Old Man of Coblenz.




70.

               There was an Old Man of Calcutta,
               Who perpetually ate bread and butter;
               Till a great bit of muffin,
               On which he was stuffing,
               Choked that horrid old man of Calcutta.




71.

               There was an Old Man in a pew,
               Whose waistcoat was spotted with blue;
               But he tore it in pieces,
               To give to his nieces,--
               That cheerful Old Man in a pew.




72.

               There was an Old Man who said, "How,--
               Shall I flee from this horrible Cow?
               I will sit on this stile,
               And continue to smile,
               Which may soften the heart of that Cow."




73.

               There was a Young Lady of Hull,
               Who was chased by a virulent Bull;
               But she seized on a spade,
               And called out--"Who's afraid!"
               Which distracted that virulent Bull.




74.

               There was an Old Man of Whitehaven,
               Who danced a quadrille with a Raven;
               But they said--"It's absurd,
               To encourage this bird!"
               So they smashed that Old Man of Whitehaven.




75.

               There was an Old Man of Leghorn,
               The smallest as ever was born;
               But quickly snapt up he,
               Was once by a puppy,
               Who devoured that Old Man of Leghorn.




76.

               There was an Old Man of the Hague,
               Whose ideas were excessively vague;
               He built a balloon,
               To examine the moon,
               That deluded Old Man of the Hague.




77.

               There was an Old Man of Jamaica,
               Who suddenly married a Quaker;
               But she cried out--"O lack!
               I have married a black!"
               Which distressed that Old Man of Jamaica.




78.

               There was an old person of Dutton,
               Whose head was so small as a button;
               So to make it look big,
               He purchased a wig,
               And rapidly rushed about Dutton.




79.

               There was a Young Lady of Tyre,
               Who swept the loud chords of a lyre;
               At the sound of each sweep,
               She enraptured the deep,
               And enchanted the city of Tyre.




80.

               There was an Old Man who said, "Hush!
               I perceive a young bird in this bush!"
               When they said--"Is it small?"
               He replied--"Not at all!
               It is four times as big as the bush!"




81.

               There was an Old Man of the East,
               Who gave all his children a feast;
               But they all ate so much,
               And their conduct was such,
               That it killed that Old Man of the East.




82.

               There was an Old Man of Kamschatka,
               Who possessed a remarkably fat cur,
               His gait and his waddle,
               Were held as a model,
               To all the fat dogs in Kamschatka.




83.

               There was an Old Man of the Coast,
               Who placidly sat on a post;
               But when it was cold,
               He relinquished his hold,
               And called for some hot buttered toast.




84.

               There was an Old Person of Bangor,
               Whose face was distorted with anger;
               He tore off his boots,
               And subsisted on roots,
               That borascible person of Bangor.




85.

               There was an Old Man with a beard,
               Who sat on a horse when he reared;
               But they said, "Never mind!
               You will fall off behind,
               You propitious Old Man with a beard!"




86.

               There was an Old Man of the West,
               Who never could get any rest;
               So they set him to spin,
               On his nose find his chin,
               Which cured that Old Man of the West.




87.

               There was an Old Person of Anerley,
               Whose conduct was strange and unmannerly;
               He rushed down the Strand,
               With a Pig in each hand,
               But returned in the evening to Anerley.




88.

               There was a Young Lady of Troy,
               Whom several large flies did annoy;
               Some she killed with a thump,
               Some she drowned at the pump,
               And some she took with her to Troy.




89.

               There was an Old Man of Berlin,
               Whose form was uncommonly thin;
               Till he once, by mistake,
               Was mixed up in a cake,
               So they baked that Old Man of Berlin.




90.

               There was an Old Person of Spain,
               Who hated all trouble and pain;
               So he sate on a chair,
               With his feet in the air,
               That umbrageous Old Person of Spain.




91.

               There was a Young Lady of Russia,
               Who screamed so that no one could hush her;
               Her screams were extreme,
               No one heard such a scream,
               As was screamed by that Lady of Russia.




92.

               There was an Old Man, who said, "Well!
               Will NOBODY answer this bell?
               I have pulled day and night,
               Till my hair has grown white,
               But nobody answers this bell!"




93.

               There was a Young Lady of Wales,
               Who caught a large fish without scales;
               When she lifted her hook,
               She exclaimed, "Only look!"
               That ecstatic Young Lady of Wales.




94.

               There was an Old Person of Cheadle,
               Was put in the stocks by the beadle;
               For stealing some pigs,
               Some coats, and some wigs,
               That horrible Person of Cheadle.




95.

               There was a Young Lady of Welling,
               Whose praise all the world was a-telling;
               She played on the harp,
               And caught several carp,
               That accomplished Young Lady of Welling.




96.

               There was an Old Person of Tartary,
               Who divided his jugular artery;
               But he screeched to his wife,
               And she said, "Oh, my life!
               Your death will be felt by all Tartary!"




97.

               There was an old Person of Chester,
               Whom several small children did pester;
               They threw some large stones,
               Which broke most of his bones,
               And displeased that old person of Chester.




98.

               There was an Old Man with an owl,
               Who continued to bother and howl;
               He sate on a rail,
               And imbibed bitter ale,
               Which refreshed that Old Man and his owl.




99.

               There was an Old Person of Gretna,
               Who rushed down the crater of Etna;
               When they said, "Is it hot?"
               He replied, "No, it's not!"
               That mendacious Old Person of Gretna.




100.

               There was a Young Lady of Sweden,
               Who went by the slow train to Weedon;
               When they cried, "Weedon Station!"
               She made no observation,
               But thought she should go back to Sweden.




101.

               There was a Young Girl of Majorca,
               Whose aunt was a very fast walker;
               She walked seventy miles,
               And leaped fifteen stiles,
               Which astonished that Girl of Majorca.




102.

               There was an Old Man of the Cape,
               Who possessed a large Barbary Ape;
               Till the Ape one dark night,
               Set the house on a light,
               Which burned that Old Man of the Cape.




103.

               There was an Old Lady of Prague,
               Whose language was horribly vague;
               When they said, "Are these caps?"
               She answered, "Perhaps!"
               That oracular Lady of Prague.




104.

               There was an Old Person of Sparta,
               Who had twenty-five sons and one daughter;
               He fed them on snails,
               And weighed them in scales,
               That wonderful person of Sparta.




105.

               There was an Old Man at a easement,
               Who held up his hands in amazement;
               When they said, "Sir, you'll fall!"
               He replied, "Not at all!"
               That incipient Old Man at a casement.




106.

               There was an old Person of Burton,
               Whose answers were rather uncertain;
               When they said, "How d'ye do?"
               He replied, "Who are you?"
               That distressing old person of Burton.




107.

               There was an Old Person of Ems,
               Who casually fell in the Thames;
               And when he was found,
               They said he was drowned,
               That unlucky Old Person of Ems.




108.

               There was an Old Person of Ewell,
               Who chiefly subsisted on gruel;
               But to make it more nice,
               He inserted some mice,
               Which refreshed that Old Person of Ewell.




109.

               There was a Young Lady of Parma,
               Whose conduct grew calmer and calmer;
               When they said, "Are you dumb?"
               She merely said, "Hum!"
               That provoking Young Lady of Parma.




110.

               There was an Old Man of Aosta,
               Who possessed a large Cow, but he lost her;
               But they said, "Don't you see,
               She has rushed up a tree?
               You invidious Old Man of Aosta!"




111.

               There was an Old Man, on whose nose,
               Most birds of the air could repose;
               But they all flew away,
               At the closing of day,
               Which relieved that Old Man and his nose.




112.

               There was a Young Lady of Clare,
               Who was sadly pursued by a bear;
               When she found she was tired,
               She abruptly expired,
               That unfortunate Lady of Clare.

﻿



The kettle began it!  Don’t tell me what Mrs. Peerybingle said.  I know
better.  Mrs. Peerybingle may leave it on record to the end of time that
she couldn’t say which of them began it; but, I say the kettle did.  I
ought to know, I hope!  The kettle began it, full five minutes by the
little waxy-faced Dutch clock in the corner, before the Cricket uttered a
chirp.

As if the clock hadn’t finished striking, and the convulsive little
Haymaker at the top of it, jerking away right and left with a scythe in
front of a Moorish Palace, hadn’t mowed down half an acre of imaginary
grass before the Cricket joined in at all!

Why, I am not naturally positive.  Every one knows that.  I wouldn’t set
my own opinion against the opinion of Mrs. Peerybingle, unless I were
quite sure, on any account whatever.  Nothing should induce me.  But,
this is a question of fact.  And the fact is, that the kettle began it, at
least five minutes before the Cricket gave any sign of being in
existence.  Contradict me, and I’ll say ten.

Let me narrate exactly how it happened.  I should have proceeded to do so
in my very first word, but for this plain consideration—if I am to tell a
story I must begin at the beginning; and how is it possible to begin at
the beginning, without beginning at the kettle?

It appeared as if there were a sort of match, or trial of skill, you must
understand, between the kettle and the Cricket.  And this is what led to
it, and how it came about.

Mrs. Peerybingle, going out into the raw twilight, and clicking over the
wet stones in a pair of pattens that worked innumerable rough impressions
of the first proposition in Euclid all about the yard—Mrs. Peerybingle
filled the kettle at the water-butt.  Presently returning, less the
pattens (and a good deal less, for they were tall and Mrs. Peerybingle
was but short), she set the kettle on the fire.  In doing which she lost
her temper, or mislaid it for an instant; for, the water being
uncomfortably cold, and in that slippy, slushy, sleety sort of state
wherein it seems to penetrate through every kind of substance, patten
rings included—had laid hold of Mrs. Peerybingle’s toes, and even
splashed her legs.  And when we rather plume ourselves (with reason too)
upon our legs, and keep ourselves particularly neat in point of
stockings, we find this, for the moment, hard to bear.

Besides, the kettle was aggravating and obstinate.  It wouldn’t allow
itself to be adjusted on the top bar; it wouldn’t hear of accommodating
itself kindly to the knobs of coal; it _would_ lean forward with a
drunken air, and dribble, a very Idiot of a kettle, on the hearth.  It
was quarrelsome, and hissed and spluttered morosely at the fire.  To sum
up all, the lid, resisting Mrs. Peerybingle’s fingers, first of all
turned topsy-turvy, and then, with an ingenious pertinacity deserving of
a better cause, dived sideways in—down to the very bottom of the kettle.
And the hull of the Royal George has never made half the monstrous
resistance to coming out of the water, which the lid of that kettle
employed against Mrs. Peerybingle, before she got it up again.

It looked sullen and pig-headed enough, even then; carrying its handle
with an air of defiance, and cocking its spout pertly and mockingly at
Mrs. Peerybingle, as if it said, ‘I won’t boil.  Nothing shall induce
me!’

But Mrs. Peerybingle, with restored good humour, dusted her chubby little
hands against each other, and sat down before the kettle, laughing.
Meantime, the jolly blaze uprose and fell, flashing and gleaming on the
little Haymaker at the top of the Dutch clock, until one might have
thought he stood stock still before the Moorish Palace, and nothing was
in motion but the flame.

He was on the move, however; and had his spasms, two to the second, all
right and regular.  But, his sufferings when the clock was going to
strike, were frightful to behold; and, when a Cuckoo looked out of a
trap-door in the Palace, and gave note six times, it shook him, each
time, like a spectral voice—or like a something wiry, plucking at his
legs.

It was not until a violent commotion and a whirring noise among the
weights and ropes below him had quite subsided, that this terrified
Haymaker became himself again.  Nor was he startled without reason; for
these rattling, bony skeletons of clocks are very disconcerting in their
operation, and I wonder very much how any set of men, but most of all how
Dutchmen, can have had a liking to invent them.  There is a popular
belief that Dutchmen love broad cases and much clothing for their own
lower selves; and they might know better than to leave their clocks so
very lank and unprotected, surely.

Now it was, you observe, that the kettle began to spend the evening.  Now
it was, that the kettle, growing mellow and musical, began to have
irrepressible gurglings in its throat, and to indulge in short vocal
snorts, which it checked in the bud, as if it hadn’t quite made up its
mind yet, to be good company.  Now it was, that after two or three such
vain attempts to stifle its convivial sentiments, it threw off all
moroseness, all reserve, and burst into a stream of song so cosy and
hilarious, as never maudlin nightingale yet formed the least idea of.

So plain too!  Bless you, you might have understood it like a book—better
than some books you and I could name, perhaps.  With its warm breath
gushing forth in a light cloud which merrily and gracefully ascended a
few feet, then hung about the chimney-corner as its own domestic Heaven,
it trolled its song with that strong energy of cheerfulness, that its
iron body hummed and stirred upon the fire; and the lid itself, the
recently rebellious lid—such is the influence of a bright
example—performed a sort of jig, and clattered like a deaf and dumb young
cymbal that had never known the use of its twin brother.

That this song of the kettle’s was a song of invitation and welcome to
somebody out of doors: to somebody at that moment coming on, towards the
snug small home and the crisp fire: there is no doubt whatever.  Mrs.
Peerybingle knew it, perfectly, as she sat musing before the hearth.
It’s a dark night, sang the kettle, and the rotten leaves are lying by
the way; and, above, all is mist and darkness, and, below, all is mire
and clay; and there’s only one relief in all the sad and murky air; and I
don’t know that it is one, for it’s nothing but a glare; of deep and
angry crimson, where the sun and wind together; set a brand upon the
clouds for being guilty of such weather; and the widest open country is a
long dull streak of black; and there’s hoar-frost on the finger-post, and
thaw upon the track; and the ice it isn’t water, and the water isn’t
free; and you couldn’t say that anything is what it ought to be; but he’s
coming, coming, coming!—

And here, if you like, the Cricket DID chime in! with a Chirrup, Chirrup,
Chirrup of such magnitude, by way of chorus; with a voice so astoundingly
disproportionate to its size, as compared with the kettle; (size! you
couldn’t see it!) that if it had then and there burst itself like an
overcharged gun, if it had fallen a victim on the spot, and chirruped its
little body into fifty pieces, it would have seemed a natural and
inevitable consequence, for which it had expressly laboured.

The kettle had had the last of its solo performance.  It persevered with
undiminished ardour; but the Cricket took first fiddle and kept it.  Good
Heaven, how it chirped!  Its shrill, sharp, piercing voice resounded
through the house, and seemed to twinkle in the outer darkness like a
star.  There was an indescribable little trill and tremble in it, at its
loudest, which suggested its being carried off its legs, and made to leap
again, by its own intense enthusiasm.  Yet they went very well together,
the Cricket and the kettle.  The burden of the song was still the same;
and louder, louder, louder still, they sang it in their emulation.

The fair little listener—for fair she was, and young: though something of
what is called the dumpling shape; but I don’t myself object to
that—lighted a candle, glanced at the Haymaker on the top of the clock,
who was getting in a pretty average crop of minutes; and looked out of
the window, where she saw nothing, owing to the darkness, but her own
face imaged in the glass.  And my opinion is (and so would yours have
been), that she might have looked a long way, and seen nothing half so
agreeable.  When she came back, and sat down in her former seat, the
Cricket and the kettle were still keeping it up, with a perfect fury of
competition.  The kettle’s weak side clearly being, that he didn’t know
when he was beat.

There was all the excitement of a race about it.  Chirp, chirp, chirp!
Cricket a mile ahead.  Hum, hum, hum—m—m!  Kettle making play in the
distance, like a great top.  Chirp, chirp, chirp!  Cricket round the
corner.  Hum, hum, hum—m—m!  Kettle sticking to him in his own way; no
idea of giving in.  Chirp, chirp, chirp!  Cricket fresher than ever.
Hum, hum, hum—m—m!  Kettle slow and steady.  Chirp, chirp, chirp!
Cricket going in to finish him.  Hum, hum, hum—m—m!  Kettle not to be
finished.  Until at last they got so jumbled together, in the
hurry-skurry, helter-skelter, of the match, that whether the kettle
chirped and the Cricket hummed, or the Cricket chirped and the kettle
hummed, or they both chirped and both hummed, it would have taken a
clearer head than yours or mine to have decided with anything like
certainty.  But, of this, there is no doubt: that, the kettle and the
Cricket, at one and the same moment, and by some power of amalgamation
best known to themselves, sent, each, his fireside song of comfort
streaming into a ray of the candle that shone out through the window, and
a long way down the lane.  And this light, bursting on a certain person
who, on the instant, approached towards it through the gloom, expressed
the whole thing to him, literally in a twinkling, and cried, ‘Welcome
home, old fellow!  Welcome home, my boy!’

This end attained, the kettle, being dead beat, boiled over, and was
taken off the fire.  Mrs. Peerybingle then went running to the door,
where, what with the wheels of a cart, the tramp of a horse, the voice of
a man, the tearing in and out of an excited dog, and the surprising and
mysterious appearance of a baby, there was soon the very What’s-his-name
to pay.

Where the baby came from, or how Mrs. Peerybingle got hold of it in that
flash of time, _I_ don’t know.  But a live baby there was, in Mrs.
Peerybingle’s arms; and a pretty tolerable amount of pride she seemed to
have in it, when she was drawn gently to the fire, by a sturdy figure of
a man, much taller and much older than herself, who had to stoop a long
way down, to kiss her.  But she was worth the trouble.  Six foot six,
with the lumbago, might have done it.

‘Oh goodness, John!’ said Mrs. P.  ‘What a state you are in with the
weather!’

He was something the worse for it, undeniably.  The thick mist hung in
clots upon his eyelashes like candied thaw; and between the fog and fire
together, there were rainbows in his very whiskers.

‘Why, you see, Dot,’ John made answer, slowly, as he unrolled a shawl
from about his throat; and warmed his hands; ‘it—it an’t exactly summer
weather.  So, no wonder.’

‘I wish you wouldn’t call me Dot, John.  I don’t like it,’ said Mrs.
Peerybingle: pouting in a way that clearly showed she _did_ like it, very
much.

‘Why what else are you?’ returned John, looking down upon her with a
smile, and giving her waist as light a squeeze as his huge hand and arm
could give.  ‘A dot and’—here he glanced at the baby—‘a dot and carry—I
won’t say it, for fear I should spoil it; but I was very near a joke.  I
don’t know as ever I was nearer.’

He was often near to something or other very clever, by his own account:
this lumbering, slow, honest John; this John so heavy, but so light of
spirit; so rough upon the surface, but so gentle at the core; so dull
without, so quick within; so stolid, but so good!  Oh Mother Nature, give
thy children the true poetry of heart that hid itself in this poor
Carrier’s breast—he was but a Carrier by the way—and we can bear to have
them talking prose, and leading lives of prose; and bear to bless thee
for their company!

It was pleasant to see Dot, with her little figure, and her baby in her
arms: a very doll of a baby: glancing with a coquettish thoughtfulness at
the fire, and inclining her delicate little head just enough on one side
to let it rest in an odd, half-natural, half-affected, wholly nestling
and agreeable manner, on the great rugged figure of the Carrier.  It was
pleasant to see him, with his tender awkwardness, endeavouring to adapt
his rude support to her slight need, and make his burly middle-age a
leaning-staff not inappropriate to her blooming youth.  It was pleasant
to observe how Tilly Slowboy, waiting in the background for the baby,
took special cognizance (though in her earliest teens) of this grouping;
and stood with her mouth and eyes wide open, and her head thrust forward,
taking it in as if it were air.  Nor was it less agreeable to observe how
John the Carrier, reference being made by Dot to the aforesaid baby,
checked his hand when on the point of touching the infant, as if he
thought he might crack it; and bending down, surveyed it from a safe
distance, with a kind of puzzled pride, such as an amiable mastiff might
be supposed to show, if he found himself, one day, the father of a young
canary.

‘An’t he beautiful, John?  Don’t he look precious in his sleep?’

‘Very precious,’ said John.  ‘Very much so.  He generally _is_ asleep,
an’t he?’

‘Lor, John!  Good gracious no!’

‘Oh,’ said John, pondering.  ‘I thought his eyes was generally shut.
Halloa!’

‘Goodness, John, how you startle one!’

‘It an’t right for him to turn ’em up in that way!’ said the astonished
Carrier, ‘is it?  See how he’s winking with both of ’em at once!  And
look at his mouth!  Why he’s gasping like a gold and silver fish!’

‘You don’t deserve to be a father, you don’t,’ said Dot, with all the
dignity of an experienced matron.  ‘But how should you know what little
complaints children are troubled with, John!  You wouldn’t so much as
know their names, you stupid fellow.’  And when she had turned the baby
over on her left arm, and had slapped its back as a restorative, she
pinched her husband’s ear, laughing.

‘No,’ said John, pulling off his outer coat.  ‘It’s very true, Dot.  I
don’t know much about it.  I only know that I’ve been fighting pretty
stiffly with the wind to-night.  It’s been blowing north-east, straight
into the cart, the whole way home.’

‘Poor old man, so it has!’ cried Mrs. Peerybingle, instantly becoming
very active.  ‘Here!  Take the precious darling, Tilly, while I make
myself of some use.  Bless it, I could smother it with kissing it, I
could!  Hie then, good dog!  Hie, Boxer, boy!  Only let me make the tea
first, John; and then I’ll help you with the parcels, like a busy bee.
“How doth the little”—and all the rest of it, you know, John.  Did you
ever learn “how doth the little,” when you went to school, John?’

‘Not to quite know it,’ John returned.  ‘I was very near it once.  But I
should only have spoilt it, I dare say.’

‘Ha ha,’ laughed Dot.  She had the blithest little laugh you ever heard.
‘What a dear old darling of a dunce you are, John, to be sure!’

Not at all disputing this position, John went out to see that the boy
with the lantern, which had been dancing to and fro before the door and
window, like a Will of the Wisp, took due care of the horse; who was
fatter than you would quite believe, if I gave you his measure, and so
old that his birthday was lost in the mists of antiquity.  Boxer, feeling
that his attentions were due to the family in general, and must be
impartially distributed, dashed in and out with bewildering inconstancy;
now, describing a circle of short barks round the horse, where he was
being rubbed down at the stable-door; now feigning to make savage rushes
at his mistress, and facetiously bringing himself to sudden stops; now,
eliciting a shriek from Tilly Slowboy, in the low nursing-chair near the
fire, by the unexpected application of his moist nose to her countenance;
now, exhibiting an obtrusive interest in the baby; now, going round and
round upon the hearth, and lying down as if he had established himself
for the night; now, getting up again, and taking that nothing of a
fag-end of a tail of his, out into the weather, as if he had just
remembered an appointment, and was off, at a round trot, to keep it.

‘There!  There’s the teapot, ready on the hob!’ said Dot; as briskly busy
as a child at play at keeping house.  ‘And there’s the old knuckle of
ham; and there’s the butter; and there’s the crusty loaf, and all!
Here’s the clothes-basket for the small parcels, John, if you’ve got any
there—where are you, John?’

‘Don’t let the dear child fall under the grate, Tilly, whatever you do!’

It may be noted of Miss Slowboy, in spite of her rejecting the caution
with some vivacity, that she had a rare and surprising talent for getting
this baby into difficulties and had several times imperilled its short
life, in a quiet way peculiarly her own.  She was of a spare and straight
shape, this young lady, insomuch that her garments appeared to be in
constant danger of sliding off those sharp pegs, her shoulders, on which
they were loosely hung.  Her costume was remarkable for the partial
development, on all possible occasions, of some flannel vestment of a
singular structure; also for affording glimpses, in the region of the
back, of a corset, or pair of stays, in colour a dead-green.  Being
always in a state of gaping admiration at everything, and absorbed,
besides, in the perpetual contemplation of her mistress’s perfections and
the baby’s, Miss Slowboy, in her little errors of judgment, may be said
to have done equal honour to her head and to her heart; and though these
did less honour to the baby’s head, which they were the occasional means
of bringing into contact with deal doors, dressers, stair-rails,
bed-posts, and other foreign substances, still they were the honest
results of Tilly Slowboy’s constant astonishment at finding herself so
kindly treated, and installed in such a comfortable home.  For, the
maternal and paternal Slowboy were alike unknown to Fame, and Tilly had
been bred by public charity, a foundling; which word, though only
differing from fondling by one vowel’s length, is very different in
meaning, and expresses quite another thing.

To have seen little Mrs. Peerybingle come back with her husband, tugging
at the clothes-basket, and making the most strenuous exertions to do
nothing at all (for he carried it), would have amused you almost as much
as it amused him.  It may have entertained the Cricket too, for anything
I know; but, certainly, it now began to chirp again, vehemently.

‘Heyday!’ said John, in his slow way.  ‘It’s merrier than ever, to-night,
I think.’

‘And it’s sure to bring us good fortune, John!  It always has done so.
To have a Cricket on the Hearth, is the luckiest thing in all the world!’

John looked at her as if he had very nearly got the thought into his
head, that she was his Cricket in chief, and he quite agreed with her.
But, it was probably one of his narrow escapes, for he said nothing.

‘The first time I heard its cheerful little note, John, was on that night
when you brought me home—when you brought me to my new home here; its
little mistress.  Nearly a year ago.  You recollect, John?’

O yes.  John remembered.  I should think so!

‘Its chirp was such a welcome to me!  It seemed so full of promise and
encouragement.  It seemed to say, you would be kind and gentle with me,
and would not expect (I had a fear of that, John, then) to find an old
head on the shoulders of your foolish little wife.’

John thoughtfully patted one of the shoulders, and then the head, as
though he would have said No, no; he had had no such expectation; he had
been quite content to take them as they were.  And really he had reason.
They were very comely.

‘It spoke the truth, John, when it seemed to say so; for you have ever
been, I am sure, the best, the most considerate, the most affectionate of
husbands to me.  This has been a happy home, John; and I love the Cricket
for its sake!’

‘Why so do I then,’ said the Carrier.  ‘So do I, Dot.’

‘I love it for the many times I have heard it, and the many thoughts its
harmless music has given me.  Sometimes, in the twilight, when I have
felt a little solitary and down-hearted, John—before baby was here to
keep me company and make the house gay—when I have thought how lonely you
would be if I should die; how lonely I should be if I could know that you
had lost me, dear; its Chirp, Chirp, Chirp upon the hearth, has seemed to
tell me of another little voice, so sweet, so very dear to me, before
whose coming sound my trouble vanished like a dream.  And when I used to
fear—I did fear once, John, I was very young you know—that ours might
prove to be an ill-assorted marriage, I being such a child, and you more
like my guardian than my husband; and that you might not, however hard
you tried, be able to learn to love me, as you hoped and prayed you
might; its Chirp, Chirp, Chirp has cheered me up again, and filled me
with new trust and confidence.  I was thinking of these things to-night,
dear, when I sat expecting you; and I love the Cricket for their sake!’

‘And so do I,’ repeated John.  ‘But, Dot?  _I_ hope and pray that I might
learn to love you?  How you talk!  I had learnt that, long before I
brought you here, to be the Cricket’s little mistress, Dot!’

She laid her hand, an instant, on his arm, and looked up at him with an
agitated face, as if she would have told him something.  Next moment she
was down upon her knees before the basket, speaking in a sprightly voice,
and busy with the parcels.

‘There are not many of them to-night, John, but I saw some goods behind
the cart, just now; and though they give more trouble, perhaps, still
they pay as well; so we have no reason to grumble, have we?  Besides, you
have been delivering, I dare say, as you came along?’

‘Oh yes,’ John said.  ‘A good many.’

‘Why what’s this round box?  Heart alive, John, it’s a wedding-cake!’

‘Leave a woman alone to find out that,’ said John, admiringly.  ‘Now a
man would never have thought of it.  Whereas, it’s my belief that if you
was to pack a wedding-cake up in a tea-chest, or a turn-up bedstead, or a
pickled salmon keg, or any unlikely thing, a woman would be sure to find
it out directly.  Yes; I called for it at the pastry-cook’s.’

‘And it weighs I don’t know what—whole hundredweights!’ cried Dot, making
a great demonstration of trying to lift it.

‘Whose is it, John?  Where is it going?’

‘Read the writing on the other side,’ said John.

‘Why, John!  My Goodness, John!’

‘Ah! who’d have thought it!’ John returned.

‘You never mean to say,’ pursued Dot, sitting on the floor and shaking
her head at him, ‘that it’s Gruff and Tackleton the toymaker!’

John nodded.

Mrs. Peerybingle nodded also, fifty times at least.  Not in assent—in
dumb and pitying amazement; screwing up her lips the while with all their
little force (they were never made for screwing up; I am clear of that),
and looking the good Carrier through and through, in her abstraction.
Miss Slowboy, in the mean time, who had a mechanical power of reproducing
scraps of current conversation for the delectation of the baby, with all
the sense struck out of them, and all the nouns changed into the plural
number, inquired aloud of that young creature, Was it Gruffs and
Tackletons the toymakers then, and Would it call at Pastry-cooks for
wedding-cakes, and Did its mothers know the boxes when its fathers
brought them homes; and so on.

‘And that is really to come about!’ said Dot.  ‘Why, she and I were girls
at school together, John.’

He might have been thinking of her, or nearly thinking of her, perhaps,
as she was in that same school time.  He looked upon her with a
thoughtful pleasure, but he made no answer.

‘And he’s as old!  As unlike her!—Why, how many years older than you, is
Gruff and Tackleton, John?’

‘How many more cups of tea shall I drink to-night at one sitting, than
Gruff and Tackleton ever took in four, I wonder!’ replied John,
good-humouredly, as he drew a chair to the round table, and began at the
cold ham.  ‘As to eating, I eat but little; but that little I enjoy,
Dot.’

Even this, his usual sentiment at meal times, one of his innocent
delusions (for his appetite was always obstinate, and flatly contradicted
him), awoke no smile in the face of his little wife, who stood among the
parcels, pushing the cake-box slowly from her with her foot, and never
once looked, though her eyes were cast down too, upon the dainty shoe she
generally was so mindful of.  Absorbed in thought, she stood there,
heedless alike of the tea and John (although he called to her, and rapped
the table with his knife to startle her), until he rose and touched her
on the arm; when she looked at him for a moment, and hurried to her place
behind the teaboard, laughing at her negligence.  But, not as she had
laughed before.  The manner and the music were quite changed.

The Cricket, too, had stopped.  Somehow the room was not so cheerful as
it had been.  Nothing like it.

‘So, these are all the parcels, are they, John?’ she said, breaking a
long silence, which the honest Carrier had devoted to the practical
illustration of one part of his favourite sentiment—certainly enjoying
what he ate, if it couldn’t be admitted that he ate but little.  ‘So,
these are all the parcels; are they, John?’

‘That’s all,’ said John.  ‘Why—no—I—’ laying down his knife and fork, and
taking a long breath.  ‘I declare—I’ve clean forgotten the old
gentleman!’

‘The old gentleman?’

‘In the cart,’ said John.  ‘He was asleep, among the straw, the last time
I saw him.  I’ve very nearly remembered him, twice, since I came in; but
he went out of my head again.  Halloa!  Yahip there!  Rouse up!  That’s
my hearty!’

John said these latter words outside the door, whither he had hurried
with the candle in his hand.

Miss Slowboy, conscious of some mysterious reference to The Old
Gentleman, and connecting in her mystified imagination certain
associations of a religious nature with the phrase, was so disturbed,
that hastily rising from the low chair by the fire to seek protection
near the skirts of her mistress, and coming into contact as she crossed
the doorway with an ancient Stranger, she instinctively made a charge or
butt at him with the only offensive instrument within her reach.  This
instrument happening to be the baby, great commotion and alarm ensued,
which the sagacity of Boxer rather tended to increase; for, that good
dog, more thoughtful than its master, had, it seemed, been watching the
old gentleman in his sleep, lest he should walk off with a few young
poplar trees that were tied up behind the cart; and he still attended on
him very closely, worrying his gaiters in fact, and making dead sets at
the buttons.

‘You’re such an undeniable good sleeper, sir,’ said John, when
tranquillity was restored; in the mean time the old gentleman had stood,
bareheaded and motionless, in the centre of the room; ‘that I have half a
mind to ask you where the other six are—only that would be a joke, and I
know I should spoil it.  Very near though,’ murmured the Carrier, with a
chuckle; ‘very near!’

The Stranger, who had long white hair, good features, singularly bold and
well defined for an old man, and dark, bright, penetrating eyes, looked
round with a smile, and saluted the Carrier’s wife by gravely inclining
his head.

His garb was very quaint and odd—a long, long way behind the time.  Its
hue was brown, all over.  In his hand he held a great brown club or
walking-stick; and striking this upon the floor, it fell asunder, and
became a chair.  On which he sat down, quite composedly.

‘There!’ said the Carrier, turning to his wife.  ‘That’s the way I found
him, sitting by the roadside!  Upright as a milestone.  And almost as
deaf.’

‘Sitting in the open air, John!’

‘In the open air,’ replied the Carrier, ‘just at dusk.  “Carriage Paid,”
he said; and gave me eighteenpence.  Then he got in.  And there he is.’

‘He’s going, John, I think!’

Not at all.  He was only going to speak.

‘If you please, I was to be left till called for,’ said the Stranger,
mildly.  ‘Don’t mind me.’

With that, he took a pair of spectacles from one of his large pockets,
and a book from another, and leisurely began to read.  Making no more of
Boxer than if he had been a house lamb!

The Carrier and his wife exchanged a look of perplexity.  The Stranger
raised his head; and glancing from the latter to the former, said,

‘Your daughter, my good friend?’

‘Wife,’ returned John.

‘Niece?’ said the Stranger.

‘Wife,’ roared John.

‘Indeed?’ observed the Stranger.  ‘Surely?  Very young!’

He quietly turned over, and resumed his reading.  But, before he could
have read two lines, he again interrupted himself to say:

‘Baby, yours?’

John gave him a gigantic nod; equivalent to an answer in the affirmative,
delivered through a speaking trumpet.

‘Girl?’

‘Bo-o-oy!’ roared John.

‘Also very young, eh?’

Mrs. Peerybingle instantly struck in.  ‘Two months and three da-ays!
Vaccinated just six weeks ago-o!  Took very fine-ly!  Considered, by the
doctor, a remarkably beautiful chi-ild!  Equal to the general run of
children at five months o-old!  Takes notice, in a way quite won-der-ful!
May seem impossible to you, but feels his legs al-ready!’

Here the breathless little mother, who had been shrieking these short
sentences into the old man’s ear, until her pretty face was crimsoned,
held up the Baby before him as a stubborn and triumphant fact; while
Tilly Slowboy, with a melodious cry of ‘Ketcher, Ketcher’—which sounded
like some unknown words, adapted to a popular Sneeze—performed some
cow-like gambols round that all unconscious Innocent.

‘Hark!  He’s called for, sure enough,’ said John.  ‘There’s somebody at
the door.  Open it, Tilly.’

Before she could reach it, however, it was opened from without; being a
primitive sort of door, with a latch, that any one could lift if he
chose—and a good many people did choose, for all kinds of neighbours
liked to have a cheerful word or two with the Carrier, though he was no
great talker himself.  Being opened, it gave admission to a little,
meagre, thoughtful, dingy-faced man, who seemed to have made himself a
great-coat from the sack-cloth covering of some old box; for, when he
turned to shut the door, and keep the weather out, he disclosed upon the
back of that garment, the inscription G & T in large black capitals.
Also the word GLASS in bold characters.

‘Good evening, John!’ said the little man.  ‘Good evening, Mum.  Good
evening, Tilly.  Good evening, Unbeknown!  How’s Baby, Mum?  Boxer’s
pretty well I hope?’

‘All thriving, Caleb,’ replied Dot.  ‘I am sure you need only look at the
dear child, for one, to know that.’

‘And I’m sure I need only look at you for another,’ said Caleb.

He didn’t look at her though; he had a wandering and thoughtful eye which
seemed to be always projecting itself into some other time and place, no
matter what he said; a description which will equally apply to his voice.

‘Or at John for another,’ said Caleb.  ‘Or at Tilly, as far as that goes.
Or certainly at Boxer.’

‘Busy just now, Caleb?’ asked the Carrier.

‘Why, pretty well, John,’ he returned, with the distraught air of a man
who was casting about for the Philosopher’s stone, at least.  ‘Pretty
much so.  There’s rather a run on Noah’s Arks at present.  I could have
wished to improve upon the Family, but I don’t see how it’s to be done at
the price.  It would be a satisfaction to one’s mind, to make it clearer
which was Shems and Hams, and which was Wives.  Flies an’t on that scale
neither, as compared with elephants you know!  Ah! well!  Have you got
anything in the parcel line for me, John?’

The Carrier put his hand into a pocket of the coat he had taken off; and
brought out, carefully preserved in moss and paper, a tiny flower-pot.

‘There it is!’ he said, adjusting it with great care.  ‘Not so much as a
leaf damaged.  Full of buds!’

Caleb’s dull eye brightened, as he took it, and thanked him.

‘Dear, Caleb,’ said the Carrier.  ‘Very dear at this season.’

‘Never mind that.  It would be cheap to me, whatever it cost,’ returned
the little man.  ‘Anything else, John?’

‘A small box,’ replied the Carrier.  ‘Here you are!’

‘“For Caleb Plummer,”’ said the little man, spelling out the direction.
‘“With Cash.”  With Cash, John?  I don’t think it’s for me.’

‘With Care,’ returned the Carrier, looking over his shoulder.  ‘Where do
you make out cash?’

‘Oh!  To be sure!’ said Caleb.  ‘It’s all right.  With care!  Yes, yes;
that’s mine.  It might have been with cash, indeed, if my dear Boy in the
Golden South Americas had lived, John.  You loved him like a son; didn’t
you?  You needn’t say you did.  _I_ know, of course.  “Caleb Plummer.
With care.”  Yes, yes, it’s all right.  It’s a box of dolls’ eyes for my
daughter’s work.  I wish it was her own sight in a box, John.’

‘I wish it was, or could be!’ cried the Carrier.

‘Thank’ee,’ said the little man.  ‘You speak very hearty.  To think that
she should never see the Dolls—and them a-staring at her, so bold, all
day long!  That’s where it cuts.  What’s the damage, John?’

‘I’ll damage you,’ said John, ‘if you inquire.  Dot!  Very near?’

‘Well! it’s like you to say so,’ observed the little man.  ‘It’s your
kind way.  Let me see.  I think that’s all.’

‘I think not,’ said the Carrier.  ‘Try again.’

‘Something for our Governor, eh?’ said Caleb, after pondering a little
while.  ‘To be sure.  That’s what I came for; but my head’s so running on
them Arks and things!  He hasn’t been here, has he?’

‘Not he,’ returned the Carrier.  ‘He’s too busy, courting.’

‘He’s coming round though,’ said Caleb; ‘for he told me to keep on the
near side of the road going home, and it was ten to one he’d take me up.
I had better go, by the bye.—You couldn’t have the goodness to let me
pinch Boxer’s tail, Mum, for half a moment, could you?’

‘Why, Caleb! what a question!’

‘Oh never mind, Mum,’ said the little man.  ‘He mightn’t like it perhaps.
There’s a small order just come in, for barking dogs; and I should wish
to go as close to Natur’ as I could, for sixpence.  That’s all.  Never
mind, Mum.’

It happened opportunely, that Boxer, without receiving the proposed
stimulus, began to bark with great zeal.  But, as this implied the
approach of some new visitor, Caleb, postponing his study from the life
to a more convenient season, shouldered the round box, and took a hurried
leave.  He might have spared himself the trouble, for he met the visitor
upon the threshold.

‘Oh!  You are here, are you?  Wait a bit.  I’ll take you home.  John
Peerybingle, my service to you.  More of my service to your pretty wife.
Handsomer every day!  Better too, if possible!  And younger,’ mused the
speaker, in a low voice; ‘that’s the Devil of it!’

‘I should be astonished at your paying compliments, Mr. Tackleton,’ said
Dot, not with the best grace in the world; ‘but for your condition.’

‘You know all about it then?’

‘I have got myself to believe it, somehow,’ said Dot.

‘After a hard struggle, I suppose?’

‘Very.’

Tackleton the Toy-merchant, pretty generally known as Gruff and
Tackleton—for that was the firm, though Gruff had been bought out long
ago; only leaving his name, and as some said his nature, according to its
Dictionary meaning, in the business—Tackleton the Toy-merchant, was a man
whose vocation had been quite misunderstood by his Parents and Guardians.
If they had made him a Money Lender, or a sharp Attorney, or a Sheriff’s
Officer, or a Broker, he might have sown his discontented oats in his
youth, and, after having had the full run of himself in ill-natured
transactions, might have turned out amiable, at last, for the sake of a
little freshness and novelty.  But, cramped and chafing in the peaceable
pursuit of toy-making, he was a domestic Ogre, who had been living on
children all his life, and was their implacable enemy.  He despised all
toys; wouldn’t have bought one for the world; delighted, in his malice,
to insinuate grim expressions into the faces of brown-paper farmers who
drove pigs to market, bellmen who advertised lost lawyers’ consciences,
movable old ladies who darned stockings or carved pies; and other like
samples of his stock in trade.  In appalling masks; hideous, hairy,
red-eyed Jacks in Boxes; Vampire Kites; demoniacal Tumblers who wouldn’t
lie down, and were perpetually flying forward, to stare infants out of
countenance; his soul perfectly revelled.  They were his only relief, and
safety-valve.  He was great in such inventions.  Anything suggestive of a
Pony-nightmare was delicious to him.  He had even lost money (and he took
to that toy very kindly) by getting up Goblin slides for magic-lanterns,
whereon the Powers of Darkness were depicted as a sort of supernatural
shell-fish, with human faces.  In intensifying the portraiture of Giants,
he had sunk quite a little capital; and, though no painter himself, he
could indicate, for the instruction of his artists, with a piece of
chalk, a certain furtive leer for the countenances of those monsters,
which was safe to destroy the peace of mind of any young gentleman
between the ages of six and eleven, for the whole Christmas or Midsummer
Vacation.

What he was in toys, he was (as most men are) in other things.  You may
easily suppose, therefore, that within the great green cape, which
reached down to the calves of his legs, there was buttoned up to the chin
an uncommonly pleasant fellow; and that he was about as choice a spirit,
and as agreeable a companion, as ever stood in a pair of
bull-headed-looking boots with mahogany-coloured tops.

Still, Tackleton, the toy-merchant, was going to be married.  In spite of
all this, he was going to be married.  And to a young wife too, a
beautiful young wife.

He didn’t look much like a bridegroom, as he stood in the Carrier’s
kitchen, with a twist in his dry face, and a screw in his body, and his
hat jerked over the bridge of his nose, and his hands tucked down into
the bottoms of his pockets, and his whole sarcastic ill-conditioned self
peering out of one little corner of one little eye, like the concentrated
essence of any number of ravens.  But, a Bridegroom he designed to be.

‘In three days’ time.  Next Thursday.  The last day of the first month in
the year.  That’s my wedding-day,’ said Tackleton.

Did I mention that he had always one eye wide open, and one eye nearly
shut; and that the one eye nearly shut, was always the expressive eye?  I
don’t think I did.

‘That’s my wedding-day!’ said Tackleton, rattling his money.

‘Why, it’s our wedding-day too,’ exclaimed the Carrier.

‘Ha ha!’ laughed Tackleton.  ‘Odd!  You’re just such another couple.
Just!’

The indignation of Dot at this presumptuous assertion is not to be
described.  What next?  His imagination would compass the possibility of
just such another Baby, perhaps.  The man was mad.

‘I say!  A word with you,’ murmured Tackleton, nudging the Carrier with
his elbow, and taking him a little apart.  ‘You’ll come to the wedding?
We’re in the same boat, you know.’

‘How in the same boat?’ inquired the Carrier.

‘A little disparity, you know,’ said Tackleton, with another nudge.
‘Come and spend an evening with us, beforehand.’

‘Why?’ demanded John, astonished at this pressing hospitality.

‘Why?’ returned the other.  ‘That’s a new way of receiving an invitation.
Why, for pleasure—sociability, you know, and all that!’

‘I thought you were never sociable,’ said John, in his plain way.

‘Tchah!  It’s of no use to be anything but free with you, I see,’ said
Tackleton.  ‘Why, then, the truth is you have a—what tea-drinking people
call a sort of a comfortable appearance together, you and your wife.  We
know better, you know, but—’

‘No, we don’t know better,’ interposed John.  ‘What are you talking
about?’

‘Well!  We _don’t_ know better, then,’ said Tackleton.  ‘We’ll agree that
we don’t.  As you like; what does it matter?  I was going to say, as you
have that sort of appearance, your company will produce a favourable
effect on Mrs. Tackleton that will be.  And, though I don’t think your
good lady’s very friendly to me, in this matter, still she can’t help
herself from falling into my views, for there’s a compactness and
cosiness of appearance about her that always tells, even in an
indifferent case.  You’ll say you’ll come?’

‘We have arranged to keep our Wedding-Day (as far as that goes) at home,’
said John.  ‘We have made the promise to ourselves these six months.  We
think, you see, that home—’

‘Bah! what’s home?’ cried Tackleton.  ‘Four walls and a ceiling! (why
don’t you kill that Cricket?  _I_ would!  I always do.  I hate their
noise.)  There are four walls and a ceiling at my house.  Come to me!’

‘You kill your Crickets, eh?’ said John.

‘Scrunch ’em, sir,’ returned the other, setting his heel heavily on the
floor.  ‘You’ll say you’ll come? It’s as much your interest as mine, you
know, that the women should persuade each other that they’re quiet and
contented, and couldn’t be better off.  I know their way.  Whatever one
woman says, another woman is determined to clinch, always.  There’s that
spirit of emulation among ’em, sir, that if your wife says to my wife,
“I’m the happiest woman in the world, and mine’s the best husband in the
world, and I dote on him,” my wife will say the same to yours, or more,
and half believe it.’

‘Do you mean to say she don’t, then?’ asked the Carrier.

‘Don’t!’ cried Tackleton, with a short, sharp laugh.  ‘Don’t what?’

The Carrier had some faint idea of adding, ‘dote upon you.’  But,
happening to meet the half-closed eye, as it twinkled upon him over the
turned-up collar of the cape, which was within an ace of poking it out,
he felt it such an unlikely part and parcel of anything to be doted on,
that he substituted, ‘that she don’t believe it?’

‘Ah you dog!  You’re joking,’ said Tackleton.

But the Carrier, though slow to understand the full drift of his meaning,
eyed him in such a serious manner, that he was obliged to be a little
more explanatory.

‘I have the humour,’ said Tackleton: holding up the fingers of his left
hand, and tapping the forefinger, to imply ‘there I am, Tackleton to
wit:’ ‘I have the humour, sir, to marry a young wife, and a pretty wife:’
here he rapped his little finger, to express the Bride; not sparingly,
but sharply; with a sense of power.  ‘I’m able to gratify that humour and
I do.  It’s my whim.  But—now look there!’

He pointed to where Dot was sitting, thoughtfully, before the fire;
leaning her dimpled chin upon her hand, and watching the bright blaze.
The Carrier looked at her, and then at him, and then at her, and then at
him again.

‘She honours and obeys, no doubt, you know,’ said Tackleton; ‘and that,
as I am not a man of sentiment, is quite enough for _me_.  But do you
think there’s anything more in it?’

‘I think,’ observed the Carrier, ‘that I should chuck any man out of
window, who said there wasn’t.’

‘Exactly so,’ returned the other with an unusual alacrity of assent.  ‘To
be sure!  Doubtless you would.  Of course.  I’m certain of it.  Good
night.  Pleasant dreams!’

The Carrier was puzzled, and made uncomfortable and uncertain, in spite
of himself.  He couldn’t help showing it, in his manner.

‘Good night, my dear friend!’ said Tackleton, compassionately.  ‘I’m off.
We’re exactly alike, in reality, I see.  You won’t give us to-morrow
evening?  Well!  Next day you go out visiting, I know.  I’ll meet you
there, and bring my wife that is to be.  It’ll do her good.  You’re
agreeable?  Thank’ee.  What’s that!’

It was a loud cry from the Carrier’s wife: a loud, sharp, sudden cry,
that made the room ring, like a glass vessel.  She had risen from her
seat, and stood like one transfixed by terror and surprise.  The Stranger
had advanced towards the fire to warm himself, and stood within a short
stride of her chair.  But quite still.

‘Dot!’ cried the Carrier.  ‘Mary!  Darling!  What’s the matter?’

They were all about her in a moment.  Caleb, who had been dozing on the
cake-box, in the first imperfect recovery of his suspended presence of
mind, seized Miss Slowboy by the hair of her head, but immediately
apologised.

‘Mary!’ exclaimed the Carrier, supporting her in his arms.  ‘Are you ill!
What is it?  Tell me, dear!’

She only answered by beating her hands together, and falling into a wild
fit of laughter.  Then, sinking from his grasp upon the ground, she
covered her face with her apron, and wept bitterly.  And then she laughed
again, and then she cried again, and then she said how cold it was, and
suffered him to lead her to the fire, where she sat down as before.  The
old man standing, as before, quite still.

‘I’m better, John,’ she said.  ‘I’m quite well now—I—’

‘John!’  But John was on the other side of her.  Why turn her face
towards the strange old gentleman, as if addressing him!  Was her brain
wandering?

‘Only a fancy, John dear—a kind of shock—a something coming suddenly
before my eyes—I don’t know what it was.  It’s quite gone, quite gone.’

‘I’m glad it’s gone,’ muttered Tackleton, turning the expressive eye all
round the room.  ‘I wonder where it’s gone, and what it was.  Humph!
Caleb, come here!  Who’s that with the grey hair?’

‘I don’t know, sir,’ returned Caleb in a whisper.  ‘Never see him before,
in all my life.  A beautiful figure for a nut-cracker; quite a new model.
With a screw-jaw opening down into his waistcoat, he’d be lovely.’

‘Not ugly enough,’ said Tackleton.

‘Or for a firebox, either,’ observed Caleb, in deep contemplation, ‘what
a model!  Unscrew his head to put the matches in; turn him heels up’ards
for the light; and what a firebox for a gentleman’s mantel-shelf, just as
he stands!’

‘Not half ugly enough,’ said Tackleton.  ‘Nothing in him at all!  Come!
Bring that box!  All right now, I hope?’

‘Oh quite gone! Quite gone!’ said the little woman, waving him hurriedly
away.  ‘Good night!’

‘Good night,’ said Tackleton.  ‘Good night, John Peerybingle!  Take care
how you carry that box, Caleb.  Let it fall, and I’ll murder you!  Dark
as pitch, and weather worse than ever, eh?  Good night!’

So, with another sharp look round the room, he went out at the door;
followed by Caleb with the wedding-cake on his head.

The Carrier had been so much astounded by his little wife, and so busily
engaged in soothing and tending her, that he had scarcely been conscious
of the Stranger’s presence, until now, when he again stood there, their
only guest.

‘He don’t belong to them, you see,’ said John.  ‘I must give him a hint
to go.’

‘I beg your pardon, friend,’ said the old gentleman, advancing to him;
‘the more so, as I fear your wife has not been well; but the Attendant
whom my infirmity,’ he touched his ears and shook his head, ‘renders
almost indispensable, not having arrived, I fear there must be some
mistake.  The bad night which made the shelter of your comfortable cart
(may I never have a worse!) so acceptable, is still as bad as ever.
Would you, in your kindness, suffer me to rent a bed here?’

‘Yes, yes,’ cried Dot.  ‘Yes!  Certainly!’

‘Oh!’ said the Carrier, surprised by the rapidity of this consent.

‘Well!  I don’t object; but, still I’m not quite sure that—’

‘Hush!’ she interrupted.  ‘Dear John!’

‘Why, he’s stone deaf,’ urged John.

‘I know he is, but—Yes, sir, certainly.  Yes! certainly!  I’ll make him
up a bed, directly, John.’

As she hurried off to do it, the flutter of her spirits, and the
agitation of her manner, were so strange that the Carrier stood looking
after her, quite confounded.

‘Did its mothers make it up a Beds then!’ cried Miss Slowboy to the Baby;
‘and did its hair grow brown and curly, when its caps was lifted off, and
frighten it, a precious Pets, a-sitting by the fires!’

With that unaccountable attraction of the mind to trifles, which is often
incidental to a state of doubt and confusion, the Carrier as he walked
slowly to and fro, found himself mentally repeating even these absurd
words, many times.  So many times that he got them by heart, and was
still conning them over and over, like a lesson, when Tilly, after
administering as much friction to the little bald head with her hand as
she thought wholesome (according to the practice of nurses), had once
more tied the Baby’s cap on.

‘And frighten it, a precious Pets, a-sitting by the fires.  What
frightened Dot, I wonder!’ mused the Carrier, pacing to and fro.

He scouted, from his heart, the insinuations of the Toy-merchant, and yet
they filled him with a vague, indefinite uneasiness.  For, Tackleton was
quick and sly; and he had that painful sense, himself, of being a man of slow
perception, that a broken hint was always worrying to him.  He certainly
had no intention in his mind of linking anything that Tackleton had said,
with the unusual conduct of his wife, but the two subjects of reflection
came into his mind together, and he could not keep them asunder.

The bed was soon made ready; and the visitor, declining all refreshment
but a cup of tea, retired.  Then, Dot—quite well again, she said, quite
well again—arranged the great chair in the chimney-corner for her
husband; filled his pipe and gave it him; and took her usual little stool
beside him on the hearth.

She always _would_ sit on that little stool.  I think she must have had a
kind of notion that it was a coaxing, wheedling little stool.

She was, out and out, the very best filler of a pipe, I should say, in
the four quarters of the globe.  To see her put that chubby little finger
in the bowl, and then blow down the pipe to clear the tube, and, when she
had done so, affect to think that there was really something in the tube,
and blow a dozen times, and hold it to her eye like a telescope, with a
most provoking twist in her capital little face, as she looked down it,
was quite a brilliant thing.  As to the tobacco, she was perfect mistress
of the subject; and her lighting of the pipe, with a wisp of paper, when
the Carrier had it in his mouth—going so very near his nose, and yet not
scorching it—was Art, high Art.

And the Cricket and the kettle, turning up again, acknowledged it!  The
bright fire, blazing up again, acknowledged it!  The little Mower on the
clock, in his unheeded work, acknowledged it!  The Carrier, in his
smoothing forehead and expanding face, acknowledged it, the readiest of
all.

And as he soberly and thoughtfully puffed at his old pipe, and as the
Dutch clock ticked, and as the red fire gleamed, and as the Cricket
chirped; that Genius of his Hearth and Home (for such the Cricket was)
came out, in fairy shape, into the room, and summoned many forms of Home
about him.  Dots of all ages, and all sizes, filled the chamber.  Dots
who were merry children, running on before him gathering flowers, in the
fields; coy Dots, half shrinking from, half yielding to, the pleading of
his own rough image; newly-married Dots, alighting at the door, and
taking wondering possession of the household keys; motherly little Dots,
attended by fictitious Slowboys, bearing babies to be christened;
matronly Dots, still young and blooming, watching Dots of daughters, as
they danced at rustic balls; fat Dots, encircled and beset by troops of
rosy grandchildren; withered Dots, who leaned on sticks, and tottered as
they crept along.  Old Carriers too, appeared, with blind old Boxers
lying at their feet; and newer carts with younger drivers (‘Peerybingle
Brothers’ on the tilt); and sick old Carriers, tended by the gentlest
hands; and graves of dead and gone old Carriers, green in the churchyard.
And as the Cricket showed him all these things—he saw them plainly,
though his eyes were fixed upon the fire—the Carrier’s heart grew light
and happy, and he thanked his Household Gods with all his might, and
cared no more for Gruff and Tackleton than you do.


But, what was that young figure of a man, which the same Fairy Cricket
set so near Her stool, and which remained there, singly and alone?  Why
did it linger still, so near her, with its arm upon the chimney-piece,
ever repeating ‘Married! and not to me!’

O Dot!  O failing Dot!  There is no place for it in all your husband’s
visions; why has its shadow fallen on his hearth!







Caleb Plummer and his Blind Daughter lived all alone by themselves, as
the Story-books say—and my blessing, with yours to back it I hope, on the
Story-books, for saying anything in this workaday world!—Caleb Plummer
and his Blind Daughter lived all alone by themselves, in a little cracked
nutshell of a wooden house, which was, in truth, no better than a pimple
on the prominent red-brick nose of Gruff and Tackleton.  The premises of
Gruff and Tackleton were the great feature of the street; but you might
have knocked down Caleb Plummer’s dwelling with a hammer or two, and
carried off the pieces in a cart.

If any one had done the dwelling-house of Caleb Plummer the honour to
miss it after such an inroad, it would have been, no doubt, to commend
its demolition as a vast improvement.  It stuck to the premises of Gruff
and Tackleton, like a barnacle to a ship’s keel, or a snail to a door, or
a little bunch of toadstools to the stem of a tree.

But, it was the germ from which the full-grown trunk of Gruff and
Tackleton had sprung; and, under its crazy roof, the Gruff before last,
had, in a small way, made toys for a generation of old boys and girls,
who had played with them, and found them out, and broken them, and gone
to sleep.

I have said that Caleb and his poor Blind Daughter lived here.  I should
have said that Caleb lived here, and his poor Blind Daughter somewhere
else—in an enchanted home of Caleb’s furnishing, where scarcity and
shabbiness were not, and trouble never entered.  Caleb was no sorcerer,
but in the only magic art that still remains to us, the magic of devoted,
deathless love, Nature had been the mistress of his study; and from her
teaching, all the wonder came.

The Blind Girl never knew that ceilings were discoloured, walls blotched
and bare of plaster here and there, high crevices unstopped and widening
every day, beams mouldering and tending downward.  The Blind Girl never
knew that iron was rusting, wood rotting, paper peeling off; the size,
and shape, and true proportion of the dwelling, withering away.  The
Blind Girl never knew that ugly shapes of delf and earthenware were on
the board; that sorrow and faintheartedness were in the house; that
Caleb’s scanty hairs were turning greyer and more grey, before her
sightless face.  The Blind Girl never knew they had a master, cold,
exacting, and uninterested—never knew that Tackleton was Tackleton in
short; but lived in the belief of an eccentric humourist who loved to
have his jest with them, and who, while he was the Guardian Angel of
their lives, disdained to hear one word of thankfulness.

And all was Caleb’s doing; all the doing of her simple father!  But he
too had a Cricket on his Hearth; and listening sadly to its music when
the motherless Blind Child was very young, that Spirit had inspired him
with the thought that even her great deprivation might be almost changed
into a blessing, and the girl made happy by these little means.  For all
the Cricket tribe are potent Spirits, even though the people who hold
converse with them do not know it (which is frequently the case); and
there are not in the unseen world, voices more gentle and more true, that
may be so implicitly relied on, or that are so certain to give none but
tenderest counsel, as the Voices in which the Spirits of the Fireside and
the Hearth address themselves to human kind.

Caleb and his daughter were at work together in their usual working-room,
which served them for their ordinary living-room as well; and a strange
place it was.  There were houses in it, finished and unfinished, for
Dolls of all stations in life.  Suburban tenements for Dolls of moderate
means; kitchens and single apartments for Dolls of the lower classes;
capital town residences for Dolls of high estate.  Some of these
establishments were already furnished according to estimate, with a view
to the convenience of Dolls of limited income; others could be fitted on
the most expensive scale, at a moment’s notice, from whole shelves of
chairs and tables, sofas, bedsteads, and upholstery.  The nobility and
gentry, and public in general, for whose accommodation these tenements
were designed, lay, here and there, in baskets, staring straight up at
the ceiling; but, in denoting their degrees in society, and confining
them to their respective stations (which experience shows to be
lamentably difficult in real life), the makers of these Dolls had far
improved on Nature, who is often froward and perverse; for, they, not
resting on such arbitrary marks as satin, cotton-print, and bits of rag,
had superadded striking personal differences which allowed of no mistake.
Thus, the Doll-lady of distinction had wax limbs of perfect symmetry; but
only she and her compeers.  The next grade in the social scale being made
of leather, and the next of coarse linen stuff.  As to the common-people,
they had just so many matches out of tinder-boxes, for their arms and
legs, and there they were—established in their sphere at once, beyond the
possibility of getting out of it.

There were various other samples of his handicraft, besides Dolls, in
Caleb Plummer’s room.  There were Noah’s Arks, in which the Birds and
Beasts were an uncommonly tight fit, I assure you; though they could be
crammed in, anyhow, at the roof, and rattled and shaken into the smallest
compass.  By a bold poetical licence, most of these Noah’s Arks had
knockers on the doors; inconsistent appendages, perhaps, as suggestive of
morning callers and a Postman, yet a pleasant finish to the outside of
the building.  There were scores of melancholy little carts, which, when
the wheels went round, performed most doleful music.  Many small fiddles,
drums, and other instruments of torture; no end of cannon, shields,
swords, spears, and guns.  There were little tumblers in red breeches,
incessantly swarming up high obstacles of red-tape, and coming down, head
first, on the other side; and there were innumerable old gentlemen of
respectable, not to say venerable, appearance, insanely flying over
horizontal pegs, inserted, for the purpose, in their own street doors.
There were beasts of all sorts; horses, in particular, of every breed,
from the spotted barrel on four pegs, with a small tippet for a mane, to
the thoroughbred rocker on his highest mettle.  As it would have been
hard to count the dozens upon dozens of grotesque figures that were ever
ready to commit all sorts of absurdities on the turning of a handle, so
it would have been no easy task to mention any human folly, vice, or
weakness, that had not its type, immediate or remote, in Caleb Plummer’s
room.  And not in an exaggerated form, for very little handles will move
men and women to as strange performances, as any Toy was ever made to
undertake.

In the midst of all these objects, Caleb and his daughter sat at work.
The Blind Girl busy as a Doll’s dressmaker; Caleb painting and glazing
the four-pair front of a desirable family mansion.

The care imprinted in the lines of Caleb’s face, and his absorbed and
dreamy manner, which would have sat well on some alchemist or abstruse
student, were at first sight an odd contrast to his occupation, and the
trivialities about him.  But, trivial things, invented and pursued for
bread, become very serious matters of fact; and, apart from this
consideration, I am not at all prepared to say, myself, that if Caleb had
been a Lord Chamberlain, or a Member of Parliament, or a lawyer, or even
a great speculator, he would have dealt in toys one whit less whimsical,
while I have a very great doubt whether they would have been as harmless.

‘So you were out in the rain last night, father, in your beautiful new
great-coat,’ said Caleb’s daughter.

‘In my beautiful new great-coat,’ answered Caleb, glancing towards a
clothes-line in the room, on which the sack-cloth garment previously
described, was carefully hung up to dry.

‘How glad I am you bought it, father!’

‘And of such a tailor, too,’ said Caleb.  ‘Quite a fashionable tailor.
It’s too good for me.’

The Blind Girl rested from her work, and laughed with delight.

‘Too good, father!  What can be too good for you?’

‘I’m half-ashamed to wear it though,’ said Caleb, watching the effect of
what he said, upon her brightening face; ‘upon my word!  When I hear the
boys and people say behind me, “Hal-loa!  Here’s a swell!”  I don’t know
which way to look.  And when the beggar wouldn’t go away last night; and
when I said I was a very common man, said “No, your Honour!  Bless your
Honour, don’t say that!”  I was quite ashamed.  I really felt as if I
hadn’t a right to wear it.’

Happy Blind Girl!  How merry she was, in her exultation!

‘I see you, father,’ she said, clasping her hands, ‘as plainly, as if I
had the eyes I never want when you are with me.  A blue coat—’

‘Bright blue,’ said Caleb.

‘Yes, yes!  Bright blue!’ exclaimed the girl, turning up her radiant
face; ‘the colour I can just remember in the blessed sky!  You told me it
was blue before!  A bright blue coat—’

‘Made loose to the figure,’ suggested Caleb.

‘Made loose to the figure!’ cried the Blind Girl, laughing heartily; ‘and
in it, you, dear father, with your merry eye, your smiling face, your
free step, and your dark hair—looking so young and handsome!’

‘Halloa!  Halloa!’ said Caleb.  ‘I shall be vain, presently!’

‘I think you are, already,’ cried the Blind Girl, pointing at him, in her
glee.  ‘I know you, father!  Ha, ha, ha!  I’ve found you out, you see!’

How different the picture in her mind, from Caleb, as he sat observing
her!  She had spoken of his free step.  She was right in that.  For years
and years, he had never once crossed that threshold at his own slow pace,
but with a footfall counterfeited for her ear; and never had he, when his
heart was heaviest, forgotten the light tread that was to render hers so
cheerful and courageous!

Heaven knows!  But I think Caleb’s vague bewilderment of manner may have
half originated in his having confused himself about himself and
everything around him, for the love of his Blind Daughter.  How could the
little man be otherwise than bewildered, after labouring for so many
years to destroy his own identity, and that of all the objects that had
any bearing on it!

‘There we are,’ said Caleb, falling back a pace or two to form the better
judgment of his work; ‘as near the real thing as sixpenn’orth of
halfpence is to sixpence.  What a pity that the whole front of the house
opens at once!  If there was only a staircase in it, now, and regular
doors to the rooms to go in at!  But that’s the worst of my calling, I’m
always deluding myself, and swindling myself.’

‘You are speaking quite softly.  You are not tired, father?’

‘Tired!’ echoed Caleb, with a great burst of animation, ‘what should tire
me, Bertha?  _I_ was never tired.  What does it mean?’

To give the greater force to his words, he checked himself in an
involuntary imitation of two half-length stretching and yawning figures
on the mantel-shelf, who were represented as in one eternal state of
weariness from the waist upwards; and hummed a fragment of a song.  It
was a Bacchanalian song, something about a Sparkling Bowl.  He sang it
with an assumption of a Devil-may-care voice, that made his face a
thousand times more meagre and more thoughtful than ever.

‘What!  You’re singing, are you?’ said Tackleton, putting his head in at
the door.  ‘Go it!  _I_ can’t sing.’

Nobody would have suspected him of it.  He hadn’t what is generally
termed a singing face, by any means.

‘I can’t afford to sing,’ said Tackleton.  ‘I’m glad _you can_.  I hope
you can afford to work too.  Hardly time for both, I should think?’

‘If you could only see him, Bertha, how he’s winking at me!’ whispered
Caleb.  ‘Such a man to joke! you’d think, if you didn’t know him, he was
in earnest—wouldn’t you now?’

The Blind Girl smiled and nodded.

‘The bird that can sing and won’t sing, must be made to sing, they say,’
grumbled Tackleton.  ‘What about the owl that can’t sing, and oughtn’t to
sing, and will sing; is there anything that _he_ should be made to do?’

‘The extent to which he’s winking at this moment!’ whispered Caleb to his
daughter.  ‘O, my gracious!’

‘Always merry and light-hearted with us!’ cried the smiling Bertha.

‘O, you’re there, are you?’ answered Tackleton.  ‘Poor Idiot!’

He really did believe she was an Idiot; and he founded the belief, I
can’t say whether consciously or not, upon her being fond of him.

‘Well! and being there,—how are you?’ said Tackleton, in his grudging
way.

‘Oh! well; quite well.  And as happy as even you can wish me to be.  As
happy as you would make the whole world, if you could!’

‘Poor Idiot!’ muttered Tackleton.  ‘No gleam of reason.  Not a gleam!’

The Blind Girl took his hand and kissed it; held it for a moment in her
own two hands; and laid her cheek against it tenderly, before releasing
it.  There was such unspeakable affection and such fervent gratitude in
the act, that Tackleton himself was moved to say, in a milder growl than
usual:

‘What’s the matter now?’

‘I stood it close beside my pillow when I went to sleep last night, and
remembered it in my dreams.  And when the day broke, and the glorious red
sun—the _red_ sun, father?’

‘Red in the mornings and the evenings, Bertha,’ said poor Caleb, with a
woeful glance at his employer.

‘When it rose, and the bright light I almost fear to strike myself
against in walking, came into the room, I turned the little tree towards
it, and blessed Heaven for making things so precious, and blessed you for
sending them to cheer me!’

‘Bedlam broke loose!’ said Tackleton under his breath.  ‘We shall arrive
at the strait-waistcoat and mufflers soon.  We’re getting on!’

Caleb, with his hands hooked loosely in each other, stared vacantly
before him while his daughter spoke, as if he really were uncertain (I
believe he was) whether Tackleton had done anything to deserve her
thanks, or not.  If he could have been a perfectly free agent, at that
moment, required, on pain of death, to kick the Toy-merchant, or fall at
his feet, according to his merits, I believe it would have been an even
chance which course he would have taken.  Yet, Caleb knew that with his
own hands he had brought the little rose-tree home for her, so carefully,
and that with his own lips he had forged the innocent deception which
should help to keep her from suspecting how much, how very much, he every
day, denied himself, that she might be the happier.

‘Bertha!’ said Tackleton, assuming, for the nonce, a little cordiality.
‘Come here.’

‘Oh!  I can come straight to you!  You needn’t guide me!’ she rejoined.

‘Shall I tell you a secret, Bertha?’

‘If you will!’ she answered, eagerly.

How bright the darkened face!  How adorned with light, the listening
head!

‘This is the day on which little what’s-her-name, the spoilt child,
Peerybingle’s wife, pays her regular visit to you—makes her fantastic
Pic-Nic here; an’t it?’ said Tackleton, with a strong expression of
distaste for the whole concern.

‘Yes,’ replied Bertha.  ‘This is the day.’

‘I thought so,’ said Tackleton.  ‘I should like to join the party.’

‘Do you hear that, father!’ cried the Blind Girl in an ecstasy.

‘Yes, yes, I hear it,’ murmured Caleb, with the fixed look of a
sleep-walker; ‘but I don’t believe it.  It’s one of my lies, I’ve no
doubt.’

‘You see I—I want to bring the Peerybingles a little more into company
with May Fielding,’ said Tackleton.  ‘I am going to be married to May.’

‘Married!’ cried the Blind Girl, starting from him.

‘She’s such a con-founded Idiot,’ muttered Tackleton, ‘that I was afraid
she’d never comprehend me.  Ah, Bertha!  Married!  Church, parson, clerk,
beadle, glass-coach, bells, breakfast, bride-cake, favours, marrow-bones,
cleavers, and all the rest of the tom-foolery.  A wedding, you know; a
wedding.  Don’t you know what a wedding is?’

‘I know,’ replied the Blind Girl, in a gentle tone.  ‘I understand!’

‘Do you?’ muttered Tackleton.  ‘It’s more than I expected.  Well!  On
that account I want to join the party, and to bring May and her mother.
I’ll send in a little something or other, before the afternoon.  A cold
leg of mutton, or some comfortable trifle of that sort.  You’ll expect
me?’

‘Yes,’ she answered.

She had drooped her head, and turned away; and so stood, with her hands
crossed, musing.

‘I don’t think you will,’ muttered Tackleton, looking at her; ‘for you
seem to have forgotten all about it, already.  Caleb!’

‘I may venture to say I’m here, I suppose,’ thought Caleb.  ‘Sir!’

‘Take care she don’t forget what I’ve been saying to her.’

‘_She_ never forgets,’ returned Caleb.  ‘It’s one of the few things she
an’t clever in.’

‘Every man thinks his own geese swans,’ observed the Toy-merchant, with a
shrug.  ‘Poor devil!’

Having delivered himself of which remark, with infinite contempt, old
Gruff and Tackleton withdrew.

Bertha remained where he had left her, lost in meditation.  The gaiety
had vanished from her downcast face, and it was very sad.  Three or four
times she shook her head, as if bewailing some remembrance or some loss;
but her sorrowful reflections found no vent in words.

It was not until Caleb had been occupied, some time, in yoking a team of
horses to a waggon by the summary process of nailing the harness to the
vital parts of their bodies, that she drew near to his working-stool, and
sitting down beside him, said:

‘Father, I am lonely in the dark.  I want my eyes, my patient, willing
eyes.’

‘Here they are,’ said Caleb.  ‘Always ready.  They are more yours than
mine, Bertha, any hour in the four-and-twenty.  What shall your eyes do
for you, dear?’

‘Look round the room, father.’

‘All right,’ said Caleb.  ‘No sooner said than done, Bertha.’

‘Tell me about it.’

‘It’s much the same as usual,’ said Caleb.  ‘Homely, but very snug.  The
gay colours on the walls; the bright flowers on the plates and dishes;
the shining wood, where there are beams or panels; the general
cheerfulness and neatness of the building; make it very pretty.’

Cheerful and neat it was wherever Bertha’s hands could busy themselves.
But nowhere else, were cheerfulness and neatness possible, in the old
crazy shed which Caleb’s fancy so transformed.

‘You have your working dress on, and are not so gallant as when you wear
the handsome coat?’ said Bertha, touching him.

‘Not quite so gallant,’ answered Caleb.  ‘Pretty brisk though.’

‘Father,’ said the Blind Girl, drawing close to his side, and stealing
one arm round his neck, ‘tell me something about May.  She is very fair?’

‘She is indeed,’ said Caleb.  And she was indeed.  It was quite a rare
thing to Caleb, not to have to draw on his invention.

‘Her hair is dark,’ said Bertha, pensively, ‘darker than mine.  Her voice
is sweet and musical, I know.  I have often loved to hear it.  Her
shape—’

‘There’s not a Doll’s in all the room to equal it,’ said Caleb.  ‘And her
eyes!—’

He stopped; for Bertha had drawn closer round his neck, and from the arm
that clung about him, came a warning pressure which he understood too
well.

He coughed a moment, hammered for a moment, and then fell back upon the
song about the sparkling bowl; his infallible resource in all such
difficulties.

‘Our friend, father, our benefactor.  I am never tired, you know, of
hearing about him.—Now, was I ever?’ she said, hastily.

‘Of course not,’ answered Caleb, ‘and with reason.’

‘Ah!  With how much reason!’ cried the Blind Girl.  With such fervency,
that Caleb, though his motives were so pure, could not endure to meet her
face; but dropped his eyes, as if she could have read in them his
innocent deceit.

‘Then, tell me again about him, dear father,’ said Bertha.  ‘Many times
again!  His face is benevolent, kind, and tender.  Honest and true, I am
sure it is.  The manly heart that tries to cloak all favours with a show
of roughness and unwillingness, beats in its every look and glance.’

‘And makes it noble!’ added Caleb, in his quiet desperation.

‘And makes it noble!’ cried the Blind Girl.  ‘He is older than May,
father.’

‘Ye-es,’ said Caleb, reluctantly.  ‘He’s a little older than May.  But
that don’t signify.’

‘Oh father, yes!  To be his patient companion in infirmity and age; to be
his gentle nurse in sickness, and his constant friend in suffering and
sorrow; to know no weariness in working for his sake; to watch him, tend
him, sit beside his bed and talk to him awake, and pray for him asleep;
what privileges these would be!  What opportunities for proving all her
truth and devotion to him!  Would she do all this, dear father?

‘No doubt of it,’ said Caleb.

‘I love her, father; I can love her from my soul!’ exclaimed the Blind
Girl.  And saying so, she laid her poor blind face on Caleb’s shoulder,
and so wept and wept, that he was almost sorry to have brought that
tearful happiness upon her.

In the mean time, there had been a pretty sharp commotion at John
Peerybingle’s, for little Mrs. Peerybingle naturally couldn’t think of
going anywhere without the Baby; and to get the Baby under weigh took
time.  Not that there was much of the Baby, speaking of it as a thing of
weight and measure, but there was a vast deal to do about and about it,
and it all had to be done by easy stages.  For instance, when the Baby
was got, by hook and by crook, to a certain point of dressing, and you
might have rationally supposed that another touch or two would finish him
off, and turn him out a tip-top Baby challenging the world, he was
unexpectedly extinguished in a flannel cap, and hustled off to bed; where
he simmered (so to speak) between two blankets for the best part of an
hour.  From this state of inaction he was then recalled, shining very
much and roaring violently, to partake of—well?  I would rather say, if
you’ll permit me to speak generally—of a slight repast.  After which, he
went to sleep again.  Mrs. Peerybingle took advantage of this interval,
to make herself as smart in a small way as ever you saw anybody in all
your life; and, during the same short truce, Miss Slowboy insinuated
herself into a spencer of a fashion so surprising and ingenious, that it
had no connection with herself, or anything else in the universe, but was
a shrunken, dog’s-eared, independent fact, pursuing its lonely course
without the least regard to anybody.  By this time, the Baby, being all
alive again, was invested, by the united efforts of Mrs. Peerybingle and
Miss Slowboy, with a cream-coloured mantle for its body, and a sort of
nankeen raised-pie for its head; and so in course of time they all three
got down to the door, where the old horse had already taken more than the
full value of his day’s toll out of the Turnpike Trust, by tearing up the
road with his impatient autographs; and whence Boxer might be dimly seen
in the remote perspective, standing looking back, and tempting him to
come on without orders.

As to a chair, or anything of that kind for helping Mrs. Peerybingle into
the cart, you know very little of John, if you think _that_ was
necessary.  Before you could have seen him lift her from the ground,
there she was in her place, fresh and rosy, saying, ‘John!  How _can_
you!  Think of Tilly!’

If I might be allowed to mention a young lady’s legs, on any terms, I
would observe of Miss Slowboy’s that there was a fatality about them
which rendered them singularly liable to be grazed; and that she never
effected the smallest ascent or descent, without recording the
circumstance upon them with a notch, as Robinson Crusoe marked the days
upon his wooden calendar.  But as this might be considered ungenteel,
I’ll think of it.

‘John?  You’ve got the Basket with the Veal and Ham-Pie and things, and
the bottles of Beer?’ said Dot.  ‘If you haven’t, you must turn round
again, this very minute.’

‘You’re a nice little article,’ returned the Carrier, ‘to be talking
about turning round, after keeping me a full quarter of an hour behind my
time.’

‘I am sorry for it, John,’ said Dot in a great bustle, ‘but I really
could not think of going to Bertha’s—I would not do it, John, on any
account—without the Veal and Ham-Pie and things, and the bottles of Beer.
Way!’

This monosyllable was addressed to the horse, who didn’t mind it at all.

‘Oh _do_ way, John!’ said Mrs. Peerybingle.  ‘Please!’

‘It’ll be time enough to do that,’ returned John, ‘when I begin to leave
things behind me.  The basket’s here, safe enough.’

‘What a hard-hearted monster you must be, John, not to have said so, at
once, and save me such a turn!  I declared I wouldn’t go to Bertha’s
without the Veal and Ham-Pie and things, and the bottles of Beer, for any
money.  Regularly once a fortnight ever since we have been married, John,
have we made our little Pic-Nic there.  If anything was to go wrong with
it, I should almost think we were never to be lucky again.’

‘It was a kind thought in the first instance,’ said the Carrier: ‘and I
honour you for it, little woman.’

‘My dear John,’ replied Dot, turning very red, ‘don’t talk about
honouring _me_.  Good Gracious!’

‘By the bye—’ observed the Carrier.  ‘That old gentleman—’

Again so visibly, and instantly embarrassed!

‘He’s an odd fish,’ said the Carrier, looking straight along the road
before them.  ‘I can’t make him out.  I don’t believe there’s any harm in
him.’

‘None at all.  I’m—I’m sure there’s none at all.’

‘Yes,’ said the Carrier, with his eyes attracted to her face by the great
earnestness of her manner.  ‘I am glad you feel so certain of it, because
it’s a confirmation to me.  It’s curious that he should have taken it
into his head to ask leave to go on lodging with us; an’t it?  Things
come about so strangely.’

‘So very strangely,’ she rejoined in a low voice, scarcely audible.

‘However, he’s a good-natured old gentleman,’ said John, ‘and pays as a
gentleman, and I think his word is to be relied upon, like a gentleman’s.
I had quite a long talk with him this morning: he can hear me better
already, he says, as he gets more used to my voice.  He told me a great
deal about himself, and I told him a great deal about myself, and a rare
lot of questions he asked me.  I gave him information about my having two
beats, you know, in my business; one day to the right from our house and
back again; another day to the left from our house and back again (for
he’s a stranger and don’t know the names of places about here); and he
seemed quite pleased.  “Why, then I shall be returning home to-night your
way,” he says, “when I thought you’d be coming in an exactly opposite
direction.  That’s capital!  I may trouble you for another lift perhaps,
but I’ll engage not to fall so sound asleep again.”  He _was_ sound
asleep, sure-ly!—Dot! what are you thinking of?’

‘Thinking of, John?  I—I was listening to you.’

‘O!  That’s all right!’ said the honest Carrier.  ‘I was afraid, from the
look of your face, that I had gone rambling on so long, as to set you
thinking about something else.  I was very near it, I’ll be bound.’

Dot making no reply, they jogged on, for some little time, in silence.
But, it was not easy to remain silent very long in John Peerybingle’s
cart, for everybody on the road had something to say.  Though it might
only be ‘How are you!’ and indeed it was very often nothing else, still,
to give that back again in the right spirit of cordiality, required, not
merely a nod and a smile, but as wholesome an action of the lungs withal,
as a long-winded Parliamentary speech.  Sometimes, passengers on foot, or
horseback, plodded on a little way beside the cart, for the express
purpose of having a chat; and then there was a great deal to be said, on
both sides.

Then, Boxer gave occasion to more good-natured recognitions of, and by,
the Carrier, than half-a-dozen Christians could have done!  Everybody
knew him, all along the road—especially the fowls and pigs, who when they
saw him approaching, with his body all on one side, and his ears pricked
up inquisitively, and that knob of a tail making the most of itself in
the air, immediately withdrew into remote back settlements, without
waiting for the honour of a nearer acquaintance.  He had business
everywhere; going down all the turnings, looking into all the wells,
bolting in and out of all the cottages, dashing into the midst of all the
Dame-Schools, fluttering all the pigeons, magnifying the tails of all the
cats, and trotting into the public-houses like a regular customer.
Wherever he went, somebody or other might have been heard to cry,
‘Halloa!  Here’s Boxer!’ and out came that somebody forthwith,
accompanied by at least two or three other somebodies, to give John
Peerybingle and his pretty wife, Good Day.

The packages and parcels for the errand cart, were numerous; and there
were many stoppages to take them in and give them out, which were not by
any means the worst parts of the journey.  Some people were so full of
expectation about their parcels, and other people were so full of wonder
about their parcels, and other people were so full of inexhaustible
directions about their parcels, and John had such a lively interest in
all the parcels, that it was as good as a play.  Likewise, there were
articles to carry, which required to be considered and discussed, and in
reference to the adjustment and disposition of which, councils had to be
holden by the Carrier and the senders: at which Boxer usually assisted,
in short fits of the closest attention, and long fits of tearing round
and round the assembled sages and barking himself hoarse.  Of all these
little incidents, Dot was the amused and open-eyed spectatress from her
chair in the cart; and as she sat there, looking on—a charming little
portrait framed to admiration by the tilt—there was no lack of nudgings
and glancings and whisperings and envyings among the younger men.  And
this delighted John the Carrier, beyond measure; for he was proud to have
his little wife admired, knowing that she didn’t mind it—that, if
anything, she rather liked it perhaps.

The trip was a little foggy, to be sure, in the January weather; and was
raw and cold.  But who cared for such trifles?  Not Dot, decidedly.  Not
Tilly Slowboy, for she deemed sitting in a cart, on any terms, to be the
highest point of human joys; the crowning circumstance of earthly hopes.
Not the Baby, I’ll be sworn; for it’s not in Baby nature to be warmer or
more sound asleep, though its capacity is great in both respects, than
that blessed young Peerybingle was, all the way.

You couldn’t see very far in the fog, of course; but you could see a
great deal!  It’s astonishing how much you may see, in a thicker fog than
that, if you will only take the trouble to look for it.  Why, even to sit
watching for the Fairy-rings in the fields, and for the patches of
hoar-frost still lingering in the shade, near hedges and by trees, was a
pleasant occupation: to make no mention of the unexpected shapes in which
the trees themselves came starting out of the mist, and glided into it
again.  The hedges were tangled and bare, and waved a multitude of
blighted garlands in the wind; but there was no discouragement in this.
It was agreeable to contemplate; for it made the fireside warmer in
possession, and the summer greener in expectancy.  The river looked
chilly; but it was in motion, and moving at a good pace—which was a great
point.  The canal was rather slow and torpid; that must be admitted.
Never mind.  It would freeze the sooner when the frost set fairly in, and
then there would be skating, and sliding; and the heavy old barges,
frozen up somewhere near a wharf, would smoke their rusty iron chimney
pipes all day, and have a lazy time of it.

In one place, there was a great mound of weeds or stubble burning; and
they watched the fire, so white in the daytime, flaring through the fog,
with only here and there a dash of red in it, until, in consequence, as
she observed, of the smoke ‘getting up her nose,’ Miss Slowboy choked—she
could do anything of that sort, on the smallest provocation—and woke the
Baby, who wouldn’t go to sleep again.  But, Boxer, who was in advance
some quarter of a mile or so, had already passed the outposts of the
town, and gained the corner of the street where Caleb and his daughter
lived; and long before they had reached the door, he and the Blind Girl
were on the pavement waiting to receive them.

Boxer, by the way, made certain delicate distinctions of his own, in his
communication with Bertha, which persuade me fully that he knew her to be
blind.  He never sought to attract her attention by looking at her, as he
often did with other people, but touched her invariably.  What experience
he could ever have had of blind people or blind dogs, I don’t know.  He
had never lived with a blind master; nor had Mr. Boxer the elder, nor
Mrs. Boxer, nor any of his respectable family on either side, ever been
visited with blindness, that I am aware of.  He may have found it out for
himself, perhaps, but he had got hold of it somehow; and therefore he had
hold of Bertha too, by the skirt, and kept hold, until Mrs. Peerybingle
and the Baby, and Miss Slowboy, and the basket, were all got safely
within doors.

May Fielding was already come; and so was her mother—a little querulous
chip of an old lady with a peevish face, who, in right of having
preserved a waist like a bedpost, was supposed to be a most transcendent
figure; and who, in consequence of having once been better off, or of
labouring under an impression that she might have been, if something had
happened which never did happen, and seemed to have never been
particularly likely to come to pass—but it’s all the same—was very
genteel and patronising indeed.  Gruff and Tackleton was also there,
doing the agreeable, with the evident sensation of being as perfectly at
home, and as unquestionably in his own element, as a fresh young salmon
on the top of the Great Pyramid.

‘May!  My dear old friend!’ cried Dot, running up to meet her.  ‘What a
happiness to see you.’

Her old friend was, to the full, as hearty and as glad as she; and it
really was, if you’ll believe me, quite a pleasant sight to see them
embrace.  Tackleton was a man of taste beyond all question.  May was very
pretty.

You know sometimes, when you are used to a pretty face, how, when it
comes into contact and comparison with another pretty face, it seems for
the moment to be homely and faded, and hardly to deserve the high opinion
you have had of it.  Now, this was not at all the case, either with Dot
or May; for May’s face set off Dot’s, and Dot’s face set off May’s, so
naturally and agreeably, that, as John Peerybingle was very near saying
when he came into the room, they ought to have been born sisters—which
was the only improvement you could have suggested.

Tackleton had brought his leg of mutton, and, wonderful to relate, a tart
besides—but we don’t mind a little dissipation when our brides are in the
case; we don’t get married every day—and in addition to these dainties,
there were the Veal and Ham-Pie, and ‘things,’ as Mrs. Peerybingle called
them; which were chiefly nuts and oranges, and cakes, and such small
deer.  When the repast was set forth on the board, flanked by Caleb’s
contribution, which was a great wooden bowl of smoking potatoes (he was
prohibited, by solemn compact, from producing any other viands),
Tackleton led his intended mother-in-law to the post of honour.  For the
better gracing of this place at the high festival, the majestic old soul
had adorned herself with a cap, calculated to inspire the thoughtless
with sentiments of awe.  She also wore her gloves.  But let us be
genteel, or die!

Caleb sat next his daughter; Dot and her old schoolfellow were side by
side; the good Carrier took care of the bottom of the table.  Miss
Slowboy was isolated, for the time being, from every article of furniture
but the chair she sat on, that she might have nothing else to knock the
Baby’s head against.

As Tilly stared about her at the dolls and toys, they stared at her and
at the company.  The venerable old gentlemen at the street doors (who
were all in full action) showed especial interest in the party, pausing
occasionally before leaping, as if they were listening to the
conversation, and then plunging wildly over and over, a great many times,
without halting for breath—as in a frantic state of delight with the
whole proceedings.

Certainly, if these old gentlemen were inclined to have a fiendish joy in
the contemplation of Tackleton’s discomfiture, they had good reason to be
satisfied.  Tackleton couldn’t get on at all; and the more cheerful his
intended bride became in Dot’s society, the less he liked it, though he
had brought them together for that purpose.  For he was a regular dog in
the manger, was Tackleton; and when they laughed and he couldn’t, he took
it into his head, immediately, that they must be laughing at him.

‘Ah, May!’ said Dot.  ‘Dear dear, what changes!  To talk of those merry
school-days makes one young again.’

‘Why, you an’t particularly old, at any time; are you?’ said Tackleton.

‘Look at my sober plodding husband there,’ returned Dot.  ‘He adds twenty
years to my age at least.  Don’t you, John?’

‘Forty,’ John replied.

‘How many _you_’ll add to May’s, I am sure I don’t know,’ said Dot,
laughing.  ‘But she can’t be much less than a hundred years of age on her
next birthday.’

‘Ha ha!’ laughed Tackleton.  Hollow as a drum, that laugh though.  And he
looked as if he could have twisted Dot’s neck, comfortably.

‘Dear dear!’ said Dot.  ‘Only to remember how we used to talk, at school,
about the husbands we would choose.  I don’t know how young, and how
handsome, and how gay, and how lively, mine was not to be!  And as to
May’s!—Ah dear!  I don’t know whether to laugh or cry, when I think what
silly girls we were.’

May seemed to know which to do; for the colour flushed into her face, and
tears stood in her eyes.

‘Even the very persons themselves—real live young men—were fixed on
sometimes,’ said Dot.  ‘We little thought how things would come about.  I
never fixed on John I’m sure; I never so much as thought of him.  And if
I had told you, you were ever to be married to Mr. Tackleton, why you’d
have slapped me.  Wouldn’t you, May?’

Though May didn’t say yes, she certainly didn’t say no, or express no, by
any means.

Tackleton laughed—quite shouted, he laughed so loud.  John Peerybingle
laughed too, in his ordinary good-natured and contented manner; but his
was a mere whisper of a laugh, to Tackleton’s.

‘You couldn’t help yourselves, for all that.  You couldn’t resist us, you
see,’ said Tackleton.  ‘Here we are!  Here we are!’

‘Where are your gay young bridegrooms now!’

‘Some of them are dead,’ said Dot; ‘and some of them forgotten.  Some of
them, if they could stand among us at this moment, would not believe we
were the same creatures; would not believe that what they saw and heard
was real, and we _could_ forget them so.  No! they would not believe one
word of it!’

‘Why, Dot!’ exclaimed the Carrier.  ‘Little woman!’

She had spoken with such earnestness and fire, that she stood in need of
some recalling to herself, without doubt.  Her husband’s check was very
gentle, for he merely interfered, as he supposed, to shield old
Tackleton; but it proved effectual, for she stopped, and said no more.
There was an uncommon agitation, even in her silence, which the wary
Tackleton, who had brought his half-shut eye to bear upon her, noted
closely, and remembered to some purpose too.

May uttered no word, good or bad, but sat quite still, with her eyes cast
down, and made no sign of interest in what had passed.  The good lady her
mother now interposed, observing, in the first instance, that girls were
girls, and byegones byegones, and that so long as young people were young
and thoughtless, they would probably conduct themselves like young and
thoughtless persons: with two or three other positions of a no less sound
and incontrovertible character.  She then remarked, in a devout spirit,
that she thanked Heaven she had always found in her daughter May, a
dutiful and obedient child; for which she took no credit to herself,
though she had every reason to believe it was entirely owing to herself.
With regard to Mr. Tackleton she said, That he was in a moral point of
view an undeniable individual, and That he was in an eligible point of
view a son-in-law to be desired, no one in their senses could doubt.
(She was very emphatic here.)  With regard to the family into which he
was so soon about, after some solicitation, to be admitted, she believed
Mr. Tackleton knew that, although reduced in purse, it had some
pretensions to gentility; and if certain circumstances, not wholly
unconnected, she would go so far as to say, with the Indigo Trade, but to
which she would not more particularly refer, had happened differently, it
might perhaps have been in possession of wealth.  She then remarked that
she would not allude to the past, and would not mention that her daughter
had for some time rejected the suit of Mr. Tackleton; and that she would
not say a great many other things which she did say, at great length.
Finally, she delivered it as the general result of her observation and
experience, that those marriages in which there was least of what was
romantically and sillily called love, were always the happiest; and that
she anticipated the greatest possible amount of bliss—not rapturous
bliss; but the solid, steady-going article—from the approaching nuptials.
She concluded by informing the company that to-morrow was the day she had
lived for, expressly; and that when it was over, she would desire nothing
better than to be packed up and disposed of, in any genteel place of
burial.

As these remarks were quite unanswerable—which is the happy property of
all remarks that are sufficiently wide of the purpose—they changed the
current of the conversation, and diverted the general attention to the
Veal and Ham-Pie, the cold mutton, the potatoes, and the tart.  In order
that the bottled beer might not be slighted, John Peerybingle proposed
To-morrow: the Wedding-Day; and called upon them to drink a bumper to it,
before he proceeded on his journey.

For you ought to know that he only rested there, and gave the old horse a
bait.  He had to go some four or five miles farther on; and when he
returned in the evening, he called for Dot, and took another rest on his
way home.  This was the order of the day on all the Pic-Nic occasions,
had been, ever since their institution.

There were two persons present, besides the bride and bridegroom elect,
who did but indifferent honour to the toast.  One of these was Dot, too
flushed and discomposed to adapt herself to any small occurrence of the
moment; the other, Bertha, who rose up hurriedly, before the rest, and
left the table.

‘Good bye!’ said stout John Peerybingle, pulling on his dreadnought coat.
‘I shall be back at the old time.  Good bye all!’

‘Good bye, John,’ returned Caleb.

He seemed to say it by rote, and to wave his hand in the same unconscious
manner; for he stood observing Bertha with an anxious wondering face,
that never altered its expression.

‘Good bye, young shaver!’ said the jolly Carrier, bending down to kiss
the child; which Tilly Slowboy, now intent upon her knife and fork, had
deposited asleep (and strange to say, without damage) in a little cot of
Bertha’s furnishing; ‘good bye!  Time will come, I suppose, when _you’ll_
turn out into the cold, my little friend, and leave your old father to
enjoy his pipe and his rheumatics in the chimney-corner; eh?  Where’s
Dot?’

‘I’m here, John!’ she said, starting.

‘Come, come!’ returned the Carrier, clapping his sounding hands.
‘Where’s the pipe?’

‘I quite forgot the pipe, John.’

Forgot the pipe!  Was such a wonder ever heard of!  She!  Forgot the
pipe!

‘I’ll—I’ll fill it directly.  It’s soon done.’

But it was not so soon done, either.  It lay in the usual place—the
Carrier’s dreadnought pocket—with the little pouch, her own work, from
which she was used to fill it, but her hand shook so, that she entangled
it (and yet her hand was small enough to have come out easily, I am
sure), and bungled terribly.  The filling of the pipe and lighting it,
those little offices in which I have commended her discretion, were
vilely done, from first to last.  During the whole process, Tackleton
stood looking on maliciously with the half-closed eye; which, whenever it
met hers—or caught it, for it can hardly be said to have ever met another
eye: rather being a kind of trap to snatch it up—augmented her confusion
in a most remarkable degree.

‘Why, what a clumsy Dot you are, this afternoon!’ said John.  ‘I could
have done it better myself, I verily believe!’

With these good-natured words, he strode away, and presently was heard,
in company with Boxer, and the old horse, and the cart, making lively
music down the road.  What time the dreamy Caleb still stood, watching
his blind daughter, with the same expression on his face.

‘Bertha!’ said Caleb, softly.  ‘What has happened?  How changed you are,
my darling, in a few hours—since this morning.  _You_ silent and dull all
day!  What is it?  Tell me!’

‘Oh father, father!’ cried the Blind Girl, bursting into tears.  ‘Oh my
hard, hard fate!’

Caleb drew his hand across his eyes before he answered her.

‘But think how cheerful and how happy you have been, Bertha!  How good,
and how much loved, by many people.’

‘That strikes me to the heart, dear father!  Always so mindful of me!
Always so kind to me!’

Caleb was very much perplexed to understand her.

‘To be—to be blind, Bertha, my poor dear,’ he faltered, ‘is a great
affliction; but—’

‘I have never felt it!’ cried the Blind Girl.  ‘I have never felt it, in
its fulness.  Never!  I have sometimes wished that I could see you, or
could see him—only once, dear father, only for one little minute—that I
might know what it is I treasure up,’ she laid her hands upon her breast,
‘and hold here!  That I might be sure and have it right!  And sometimes
(but then I was a child) I have wept in my prayers at night, to think
that when your images ascended from my heart to Heaven, they might not be
the true resemblance of yourselves.  But I have never had these feelings
long.  They have passed away and left me tranquil and contented.’

‘And they will again,’ said Caleb.

‘But, father!  Oh my good, gentle father, bear with me, if I am wicked!’
said the Blind Girl.  ‘This is not the sorrow that so weighs me down!’

Her father could not choose but let his moist eyes overflow; she was so
earnest and pathetic, but he did not understand her, yet.

‘Bring her to me,’ said Bertha.  ‘I cannot hold it closed and shut within
myself.  Bring her to me, father!’

She knew he hesitated, and said, ‘May.  Bring May!’

May heard the mention of her name, and coming quietly towards her,
touched her on the arm.  The Blind Girl turned immediately, and held her
by both hands.

‘Look into my face, Dear heart, Sweet heart!’ said Bertha.  ‘Read it with
your beautiful eyes, and tell me if the truth is written on it.’

‘Dear Bertha, Yes!’

The Blind Girl still, upturning the blank sightless face, down which the
tears were coursing fast, addressed her in these words:

‘There is not, in my soul, a wish or thought that is not for your good,
bright May!  There is not, in my soul, a grateful recollection stronger
than the deep remembrance which is stored there, of the many many times
when, in the full pride of sight and beauty, you have had consideration
for Blind Bertha, even when we two were children, or when Bertha was as
much a child as ever blindness can be!  Every blessing on your head!
Light upon your happy course!  Not the less, my dear May;’ and she drew
towards her, in a closer grasp; ‘not the less, my bird, because, to-day,
the knowledge that you are to be His wife has wrung my heart almost to
breaking!  Father, May, Mary! oh forgive me that it is so, for the sake
of all he has done to relieve the weariness of my dark life: and for the
sake of the belief you have in me, when I call Heaven to witness that I
could not wish him married to a wife more worthy of his goodness!’

While speaking, she had released May Fielding’s hands, and clasped her
garments in an attitude of mingled supplication and love.  Sinking lower
and lower down, as she proceeded in her strange confession, she dropped
at last at the feet of her friend, and hid her blind face in the folds of
her dress.

‘Great Power!’ exclaimed her father, smitten at one blow with the truth,
‘have I deceived her from her cradle, but to break her heart at last!’

It was well for all of them that Dot, that beaming, useful, busy little
Dot—for such she was, whatever faults she had, and however you may learn
to hate her, in good time—it was well for all of them, I say, that she
was there: or where this would have ended, it were hard to tell.  But
Dot, recovering her self-possession, interposed, before May could reply,
or Caleb say another word.

‘Come, come, dear Bertha! come away with me!  Give her your arm, May.
So!  How composed she is, you see, already; and how good it is of her to
mind us,’ said the cheery little woman, kissing her upon the forehead.
‘Come away, dear Bertha.  Come! and here’s her good father will come with
her; won’t you, Caleb?  To—be—sure!’

Well, well! she was a noble little Dot in such things, and it must have
been an obdurate nature that could have withstood her influence.  When
she had got poor Caleb and his Bertha away, that they might comfort and
console each other, as she knew they only could, she presently came
bouncing back,—the saying is, as fresh as any daisy; I say fresher—to
mount guard over that bridling little piece of consequence in the cap and
gloves, and prevent the dear old creature from making discoveries.

‘So bring me the precious Baby, Tilly,’ said she, drawing a chair to the
fire; ‘and while I have it in my lap, here’s Mrs. Fielding, Tilly, will
tell me all about the management of Babies, and put me right in twenty
points where I’m as wrong as can be.  Won’t you, Mrs. Fielding?’

Not even the Welsh Giant, who, according to the popular expression, was
so ‘slow’ as to perform a fatal surgical operation upon himself, in
emulation of a juggling-trick achieved by his arch-enemy at
breakfast-time; not even he fell half so readily into the snare prepared
for him, as the old lady did into this artful pitfall.  The fact of
Tackleton having walked out; and furthermore, of two or three people
having been talking together at a distance, for two minutes, leaving her
to her own resources; was quite enough to have put her on her dignity,
and the bewailment of that mysterious convulsion in the Indigo trade, for
four-and-twenty hours.  But this becoming deference to her experience, on
the part of the young mother, was so irresistible, that after a short
affectation of humility, she began to enlighten her with the best grace
in the world; and sitting bolt upright before the wicked Dot, she did, in
half an hour, deliver more infallible domestic recipes and precepts, than
would (if acted on) have utterly destroyed and done up that Young
Peerybingle, though he had been an Infant Samson.

To change the theme, Dot did a little needlework—she carried the contents
of a whole workbox in her pocket; however she contrived it, I don’t
know—then did a little nursing; then a little more needlework; then had a
little whispering chat with May, while the old lady dozed; and so in
little bits of bustle, which was quite her manner always, found it a very
short afternoon.  Then, as it grew dark, and as it was a solemn part of
this Institution of the Pic-Nic that she should perform all Bertha’s
household tasks, she trimmed the fire, and swept the hearth, and set the
tea-board out, and drew the curtain, and lighted a candle.  Then she
played an air or two on a rude kind of harp, which Caleb had contrived
for Bertha, and played them very well; for Nature had made her delicate
little ear as choice a one for music as it would have been for jewels, if
she had had any to wear.  By this time it was the established hour for
having tea; and Tackleton came back again, to share the meal, and spend
the evening.

Caleb and Bertha had returned some time before, and Caleb had sat down to
his afternoon’s work.  But he couldn’t settle to it, poor fellow, being
anxious and remorseful for his daughter.  It was touching to see him
sitting idle on his working-stool, regarding her so wistfully, and always
saying in his face, ‘Have I deceived her from her cradle, but to break
her heart!’

When it was night, and tea was done, and Dot had nothing more to do in
washing up the cups and saucers; in a word—for I must come to it, and
there is no use in putting it off—when the time drew nigh for expecting
the Carrier’s return in every sound of distant wheels, her manner changed
again, her colour came and went, and she was very restless.  Not as good
wives are, when listening for their husbands.  No, no, no.  It was
another sort of restlessness from that.

Wheels heard.  A horse’s feet.  The barking of a dog.  The gradual
approach of all the sounds.  The scratching paw of Boxer at the door!

‘Whose step is that!’ cried Bertha, starting up.

‘Whose step?’ returned the Carrier, standing in the portal, with his
brown face ruddy as a winter berry from the keen night air.  ‘Why, mine.’

‘The other step,’ said Bertha.  ‘The man’s tread behind you!’

‘She is not to be deceived,’ observed the Carrier, laughing.  ‘Come
along, sir.  You’ll be welcome, never fear!’

He spoke in a loud tone; and as he spoke, the deaf old gentleman entered.

‘He’s not so much a stranger, that you haven’t seen him once, Caleb,’
said the Carrier.  ‘You’ll give him house-room till we go?’

‘Oh surely, John, and take it as an honour.’

‘He’s the best company on earth, to talk secrets in,’ said John.  ‘I have
reasonable good lungs, but he tries ’em, I can tell you.  Sit down, sir.
All friends here, and glad to see you!’

When he had imparted this assurance, in a voice that amply corroborated
what he had said about his lungs, he added in his natural tone, ‘A chair
in the chimney-corner, and leave to sit quite silent and look pleasantly
about him, is all he cares for.  He’s easily pleased.’

Bertha had been listening intently.  She called Caleb to her side, when
he had set the chair, and asked him, in a low voice, to describe their
visitor.  When he had done so (truly now; with scrupulous fidelity), she
moved, for the first time since he had come in, and sighed, and seemed to
have no further interest concerning him.

The Carrier was in high spirits, good fellow that he was, and fonder of
his little wife than ever.

‘A clumsy Dot she was, this afternoon!’ he said, encircling her with his
rough arm, as she stood, removed from the rest; ‘and yet I like her
somehow.  See yonder, Dot!’

He pointed to the old man.  She looked down.  I think she trembled.

‘He’s—ha ha ha!—he’s full of admiration for you!’ said the Carrier.
‘Talked of nothing else, the whole way here.  Why, he’s a brave old boy.
I like him for it!’

‘I wish he had had a better subject, John,’ she said, with an uneasy
glance about the room.  At Tackleton especially.

‘A better subject!’ cried the jovial John.  ‘There’s no such thing.
Come, off with the great-coat, off with the thick shawl, off with the
heavy wrappers! and a cosy half-hour by the fire!  My humble service,
Mistress.  A game at cribbage, you and I?  That’s hearty.  The cards and
board, Dot.  And a glass of beer here, if there’s any left, small wife!’

His challenge was addressed to the old lady, who accepting it with
gracious readiness, they were soon engaged upon the game.  At first, the
Carrier looked about him sometimes, with a smile, or now and then called
Dot to peep over his shoulder at his hand, and advise him on some knotty
point.  But his adversary being a rigid disciplinarian, and subject to an
occasional weakness in respect of pegging more than she was entitled to,
required such vigilance on his part, as left him neither eyes nor ears to
spare.  Thus, his whole attention gradually became absorbed upon the
cards; and he thought of nothing else, until a hand upon his shoulder
restored him to a consciousness of Tackleton.

‘I am sorry to disturb you—but a word, directly.’

‘I’m going to deal,’ returned the Carrier.  ‘It’s a crisis.’

‘It is,’ said Tackleton.  ‘Come here, man!’

There was that in his pale face which made the other rise immediately,
and ask him, in a hurry, what the matter was.

‘Hush!  John Peerybingle,’ said Tackleton.  ‘I am sorry for this.  I am
indeed.  I have been afraid of it.  I have suspected it from the first.’

‘What is it?’ asked the Carrier, with a frightened aspect.

‘Hush!  I’ll show you, if you’ll come with me.’

The Carrier accompanied him, without another word.  They went across a
yard, where the stars were shining, and by a little side-door, into
Tackleton’s own counting-house, where there was a glass window,
commanding the ware-room, which was closed for the night.  There was no
light in the counting-house itself, but there were lamps in the long
narrow ware-room; and consequently the window was bright.

‘A moment!’ said Tackleton.  ‘Can you bear to look through that window,
do you think?’

‘Why not?’ returned the Carrier.

‘A moment more,’ said Tackleton.  ‘Don’t commit any violence.  It’s of no
use.  It’s dangerous too.  You’re a strong-made man; and you might do
murder before you know it.’

The Carrier looked him in the face, and recoiled a step as if he had been
struck.  In one stride he was at the window, and he saw—

Oh Shadow on the Hearth!  Oh truthful Cricket!  Oh perfidious Wife!

He saw her, with the old man—old no longer, but erect and gallant—bearing
in his hand the false white hair that had won his way into their desolate
and miserable home.  He saw her listening to him, as he bent his head to
whisper in her ear; and suffering him to clasp her round the waist, as
they moved slowly down the dim wooden gallery towards the door by which
they had entered it.  He saw them stop, and saw her turn—to have the
face, the face he loved so, so presented to his view!—and saw her, with
her own hands, adjust the lie upon his head, laughing, as she did it, at
his unsuspicious nature!

He clenched his strong right hand at first, as if it would have beaten
down a lion.  But opening it immediately again, he spread it out before
the eyes of Tackleton (for he was tender of her, even then), and so, as
they passed out, fell down upon a desk, and was as weak as any infant.

He was wrapped up to the chin, and busy with his horse and parcels, when
she came into the room, prepared for going home.

‘Now, John, dear!  Good night, May!  Good night, Bertha!’

Could she kiss them?  Could she be blithe and cheerful in her parting?
Could she venture to reveal her face to them without a blush?  Yes.
Tackleton observed her closely, and she did all this.

Tilly was hushing the Baby, and she crossed and re-crossed Tackleton, a
dozen times, repeating drowsily:

‘Did the knowledge that it was to be its wifes, then, wring its hearts
almost to breaking; and did its fathers deceive it from its cradles but
to break its hearts at last!’

‘Now, Tilly, give me the Baby!  Good night, Mr. Tackleton.  Where’s John,
for goodness’ sake?’

‘He’s going to walk beside the horse’s head,’ said Tackleton; who helped
her to her seat.

‘My dear John.  Walk?  To-night?’

The muffled figure of her husband made a hasty sign in the affirmative;
and the false stranger and the little nurse being in their places, the
old horse moved off.  Boxer, the unconscious Boxer, running on before,
running back, running round and round the cart, and barking as
triumphantly and merrily as ever.

When Tackleton had gone off likewise, escorting May and her mother home,
poor Caleb sat down by the fire beside his daughter; anxious and
remorseful at the core; and still saying in his wistful contemplation of
her, ‘Have I deceived her from her cradle, but to break her heart at
last!’

The toys that had been set in motion for the Baby, had all stopped, and
run down, long ago.  In the faint light and silence, the imperturbably
calm dolls, the agitated rocking-horses with distended eyes and nostrils,
the old gentlemen at the street-doors, standing half doubled up upon
their failing knees and ankles, the wry-faced nut-crackers, the very
Beasts upon their way into the Ark, in twos, like a Boarding School out
walking, might have been imagined to be stricken motionless with
fantastic wonder, at Dot being false, or Tackleton beloved, under any
combination of circumstances.






The Dutch clock in the corner struck Ten, when the Carrier sat down by
his fireside.  So troubled and grief-worn, that he seemed to scare the
Cuckoo, who, having cut his ten melodious announcements as short as
possible, plunged back into the Moorish Palace again, and clapped his
little door behind him, as if the unwonted spectacle were too much for
his feelings.

If the little Haymaker had been armed with the sharpest of scythes, and
had cut at every stroke into the Carrier’s heart, he never could have
gashed and wounded it, as Dot had done.

It was a heart so full of love for her; so bound up and held together by
innumerable threads of winning remembrance, spun from the daily working
of her many qualities of endearment; it was a heart in which she had
enshrined herself so gently and so closely; a heart so single and so
earnest in its Truth, so strong in right, so weak in wrong; that it could
cherish neither passion nor revenge at first, and had only room to hold
the broken image of its Idol.

But, slowly, slowly, as the Carrier sat brooding on his hearth, now cold
and dark, other and fiercer thoughts began to rise within him, as an
angry wind comes rising in the night.  The Stranger was beneath his
outraged roof.  Three steps would take him to his chamber-door.  One blow
would beat it in.  ‘You might do murder before you know it,’ Tackleton
had said.  How could it be murder, if he gave the villain time to grapple
with him hand to hand!  He was the younger man.

It was an ill-timed thought, bad for the dark mood of his mind.  It was
an angry thought, goading him to some avenging act, that should change
the cheerful house into a haunted place which lonely travellers would
dread to pass by night; and where the timid would see shadows struggling
in the ruined windows when the moon was dim, and hear wild noises in the
stormy weather.

He was the younger man!  Yes, yes; some lover who had won the heart that
_he_ had never touched.  Some lover of her early choice, of whom she had
thought and dreamed, for whom she had pined and pined, when he had
fancied her so happy by his side.  O agony to think of it!

She had been above-stairs with the Baby, getting it to bed.  As he sat
brooding on the hearth, she came close beside him, without his
knowledge—in the turning of the rack of his great misery, he lost all
other sounds—and put her little stool at his feet.  He only knew it, when
he felt her hand upon his own, and saw her looking up into his face.

With wonder?  No.  It was his first impression, and he was fain to look
at her again, to set it right.  No, not with wonder.  With an eager and
inquiring look; but not with wonder.  At first it was alarmed and
serious; then, it changed into a strange, wild, dreadful smile of
recognition of his thoughts; then, there was nothing but her clasped
hands on her brow, and her bent head, and falling hair.

Though the power of Omnipotence had been his to wield at that moment, he
had too much of its diviner property of Mercy in his breast, to have
turned one feather’s weight of it against her.  But he could not bear to
see her crouching down upon the little seat where he had often looked on
her, with love and pride, so innocent and gay; and, when she rose and
left him, sobbing as she went, he felt it a relief to have the vacant
place beside him rather than her so long-cherished presence.  This in
itself was anguish keener than all, reminding him how desolate he was
become, and how the great bond of his life was rent asunder.

The more he felt this, and the more he knew he could have better borne to
see her lying prematurely dead before him with their little child upon
her breast, the higher and the stronger rose his wrath against his enemy.
He looked about him for a weapon.

There was a gun, hanging on the wall.  He took it down, and moved a pace
or two towards the door of the perfidious Stranger’s room.  He knew the
gun was loaded.  Some shadowy idea that it was just to shoot this man
like a wild beast, seized him, and dilated in his mind until it grew into
a monstrous demon in complete possession of him, casting out all milder
thoughts and setting up its undivided empire.

That phrase is wrong.  Not casting out his milder thoughts, but artfully
transforming them.  Changing them into scourges to drive him on.  Turning
water into blood, love into hate, gentleness into blind ferocity.  Her
image, sorrowing, humbled, but still pleading to his tenderness and mercy
with resistless power, never left his mind; but, staying there, it urged
him to the door; raised the weapon to his shoulder; fitted and nerved his
finger to the trigger; and cried ‘Kill him!  In his bed!’

He reversed the gun to beat the stock upon the door; he already held it
lifted in the air; some indistinct design was in his thoughts of calling
out to him to fly, for God’s sake, by the window—

When, suddenly, the struggling fire illumined the whole chimney with a
glow of light; and the Cricket on the Hearth began to Chirp!

No sound he could have heard, no human voice, not even hers, could so
have moved and softened him.  The artless words in which she had told him
of her love for this same Cricket, were once more freshly spoken; her
trembling, earnest manner at the moment, was again before him; her
pleasant voice—O what a voice it was, for making household music at the
fireside of an honest man!—thrilled through and through his better
nature, and awoke it into life and action.

He recoiled from the door, like a man walking in his sleep, awakened from
a frightful dream; and put the gun aside.  Clasping his hands before his
face, he then sat down again beside the fire, and found relief in tears.

The Cricket on the Hearth came out into the room, and stood in Fairy
shape before him.

‘“I love it,”’ said the Fairy Voice, repeating what he well remembered,
‘“for the many times I have heard it, and the many thoughts its harmless
music has given me.”’

‘She said so!’ cried the Carrier.  ‘True!’

‘“This has been a happy home, John; and I love the Cricket for its
sake!”’

‘It has been, Heaven knows,’ returned the Carrier.  ‘She made it happy,
always,—until now.’

‘So gracefully sweet-tempered; so domestic, joyful, busy, and
light-hearted!’ said the Voice.

‘Otherwise I never could have loved her as I did,’ returned the Carrier.

The Voice, correcting him, said ‘do.’

The Carrier repeated ‘as I did.’  But not firmly.  His faltering tongue
resisted his control, and would speak in its own way, for itself and him.

The Figure, in an attitude of invocation, raised its hand and said:

‘Upon your own hearth—’

‘The hearth she has blighted,’ interposed the Carrier.

‘The hearth she has—how often!—blessed and brightened,’ said the Cricket;
‘the hearth which, but for her, were only a few stones and bricks and
rusty bars, but which has been, through her, the Altar of your Home; on
which you have nightly sacrificed some petty passion, selfishness, or
care, and offered up the homage of a tranquil mind, a trusting nature,
and an overflowing heart; so that the smoke from this poor chimney has
gone upward with a better fragrance than the richest incense that is
burnt before the richest shrines in all the gaudy temples of this
world!—Upon your own hearth; in its quiet sanctuary; surrounded by its
gentle influences and associations; hear her!  Hear me!  Hear everything
that speaks the language of your hearth and home!’

‘And pleads for her?’ inquired the Carrier.

‘All things that speak the language of your hearth and home, must plead
for her!’ returned the Cricket.  ‘For they speak the truth.’

And while the Carrier, with his head upon his hands, continued to sit
meditating in his chair, the Presence stood beside him, suggesting his
reflections by its power, and presenting them before him, as in a glass
or picture.  It was not a solitary Presence.  From the hearthstone, from
the chimney, from the clock, the pipe, the kettle, and the cradle; from
the floor, the walls, the ceiling, and the stairs; from the cart without,
and the cupboard within, and the household implements; from every thing
and every place with which she had ever been familiar, and with which she
had ever entwined one recollection of herself in her unhappy husband’s
mind; Fairies came trooping forth.  Not to stand beside him as the
Cricket did, but to busy and bestir themselves.  To do all honour to her
image.  To pull him by the skirts, and point to it when it appeared.  To
cluster round it, and embrace it, and strew flowers for it to tread on.
To try to crown its fair head with their tiny hands.  To show that they
were fond of it and loved it; and that there was not one ugly, wicked or
accusatory creature to claim knowledge of it—none but their playful and
approving selves.

His thoughts were constant to her image.  It was always there.

She sat plying her needle, before the fire, and singing to herself.  Such
a blithe, thriving, steady little Dot!  The fairy figures turned upon him
all at once, by one consent, with one prodigious concentrated stare, and
seemed to say, ‘Is this the light wife you are mourning for!’

There were sounds of gaiety outside, musical instruments, and noisy
tongues, and laughter.  A crowd of young merry-makers came pouring in,
among whom were May Fielding and a score of pretty girls.  Dot was the
fairest of them all; as young as any of them too.  They came to summon
her to join their party.  It was a dance.  If ever little foot were made
for dancing, hers was, surely.  But she laughed, and shook her head, and
pointed to her cookery on the fire, and her table ready spread: with an
exulting defiance that rendered her more charming than she was before.
And so she merrily dismissed them, nodding to her would-be partners, one
by one, as they passed, but with a comical indifference, enough to make
them go and drown themselves immediately if they were her admirers—and
they must have been so, more or less; they couldn’t help it.  And yet
indifference was not her character.  O no!  For presently, there came a
certain Carrier to the door; and bless her what a welcome she bestowed
upon him!

Again the staring figures turned upon him all at once, and seemed to say,
‘Is this the wife who has forsaken you!’

A shadow fell upon the mirror or the picture: call it what you will.  A
great shadow of the Stranger, as he first stood underneath their roof;
covering its surface, and blotting out all other objects.  But the nimble
Fairies worked like bees to clear it off again.  And Dot again was there.
Still bright and beautiful.

Rocking her little Baby in its cradle, singing to it softly, and resting
her head upon a shoulder which had its counterpart in the musing figure
by which the Fairy Cricket stood.

The night—I mean the real night: not going by Fairy clocks—was wearing
now; and in this stage of the Carrier’s thoughts, the moon burst out, and
shone brightly in the sky.  Perhaps some calm and quiet light had risen
also, in his mind; and he could think more soberly of what had happened.

Although the shadow of the Stranger fell at intervals upon the
glass—always distinct, and big, and thoroughly defined—it never fell so
darkly as at first.  Whenever it appeared, the Fairies uttered a general
cry of consternation, and plied their little arms and legs, with
inconceivable activity, to rub it out.  And whenever they got at Dot
again, and showed her to him once more, bright and beautiful, they
cheered in the most inspiring manner.

They never showed her, otherwise than beautiful and bright, for they were
Household Spirits to whom falsehood is annihilation; and being so, what
Dot was there for them, but the one active, beaming, pleasant little
creature who had been the light and sun of the Carrier’s Home!

The Fairies were prodigiously excited when they showed her, with the
Baby, gossiping among a knot of sage old matrons, and affecting to be
wondrous old and matronly herself, and leaning in a staid, demure old way
upon her husband’s arm, attempting—she! such a bud of a little woman—to
convey the idea of having abjured the vanities of the world in general,
and of being the sort of person to whom it was no novelty at all to be a
mother; yet in the same breath, they showed her, laughing at the Carrier
for being awkward, and pulling up his shirt-collar to make him smart, and
mincing merrily about that very room to teach him how to dance!

They turned, and stared immensely at him when they showed her with the
Blind Girl; for, though she carried cheerfulness and animation with her
wheresoever she went, she bore those influences into Caleb Plummer’s
home, heaped up and running over.  The Blind Girl’s love for her, and
trust in her, and gratitude to her; her own good busy way of setting
Bertha’s thanks aside; her dexterous little arts for filling up each
moment of the visit in doing something useful to the house, and really
working hard while feigning to make holiday; her bountiful provision of
those standing delicacies, the Veal and Ham-Pie and the bottles of Beer;
her radiant little face arriving at the door, and taking leave; the
wonderful expression in her whole self, from her neat foot to the crown
of her head, of being a part of the establishment—a something necessary
to it, which it couldn’t be without; all this the Fairies revelled in,
and loved her for.  And once again they looked upon him all at once,
appealingly, and seemed to say, while some among them nestled in her
dress and fondled her, ‘Is this the wife who has betrayed your
confidence!’

More than once, or twice, or thrice, in the long thoughtful night, they
showed her to him sitting on her favourite seat, with her bent head, her
hands clasped on her brow, her falling hair.  As he had seen her last.
And when they found her thus, they neither turned nor looked upon him,
but gathered close round her, and comforted and kissed her, and pressed
on one another to show sympathy and kindness to her, and forgot him
altogether.

Thus the night passed.  The moon went down; the stars grew pale; the cold
day broke; the sun rose.  The Carrier still sat, musing, in the chimney
corner.  He had sat there, with his head upon his hands, all night.  All
night the faithful Cricket had been Chirp, Chirp, Chirping on the Hearth.
All night he had listened to its voice.  All night the household Fairies
had been busy with him.  All night she had been amiable and blameless in
the glass, except when that one shadow fell upon it.

He rose up when it was broad day, and washed and dressed himself.  He
couldn’t go about his customary cheerful avocations—he wanted spirit for
them—but it mattered the less, that it was Tackleton’s wedding-day, and
he had arranged to make his rounds by proxy.  He thought to have gone
merrily to church with Dot.  But such plans were at an end.  It was their
own wedding-day too.  Ah! how little he had looked for such a close to
such a year!

The Carrier had expected that Tackleton would pay him an early visit; and
he was right.  He had not walked to and fro before his own door, many
minutes, when he saw the Toy-merchant coming in his chaise along the
road.  As the chaise drew nearer, he perceived that Tackleton was dressed
out sprucely for his marriage, and that he had decorated his horse’s head
with flowers and favours.

The horse looked much more like a bridegroom than Tackleton, whose
half-closed eye was more disagreeably expressive than ever.  But the
Carrier took little heed of this.  His thoughts had other occupation.

‘John Peerybingle!’ said Tackleton, with an air of condolence.  ‘My good
fellow, how do you find yourself this morning?’

‘I have had but a poor night, Master Tackleton,’ returned the Carrier,
shaking his head: ‘for I have been a good deal disturbed in my mind.  But
it’s over now!  Can you spare me half an hour or so, for some private
talk?’

‘I came on purpose,’ returned Tackleton, alighting.  ‘Never mind the
horse.  He’ll stand quiet enough, with the reins over this post, if
you’ll give him a mouthful of hay.’

The Carrier having brought it from his stable, and set it before him,
they turned into the house.

‘You are not married before noon,’ he said, ‘I think?’

‘No,’ answered Tackleton.  ‘Plenty of time.  Plenty of time.’

When they entered the kitchen, Tilly Slowboy was rapping at the
Stranger’s door; which was only removed from it by a few steps.  One of
her very red eyes (for Tilly had been crying all night long, because her
mistress cried) was at the keyhole; and she was knocking very loud; and
seemed frightened.

‘If you please I can’t make nobody hear,’ said Tilly, looking round.  ‘I
hope nobody an’t gone and been and died if you please!’

This philanthropic wish, Miss Slowboy emphasised with various new raps
and kicks at the door; which led to no result whatever.

‘Shall I go?’ said Tackleton.  ‘It’s curious.’

The Carrier, who had turned his face from the door, signed to him to go
if he would.

So Tackleton went to Tilly Slowboy’s relief; and he too kicked and
knocked; and he too failed to get the least reply.  But he thought of
trying the handle of the door; and as it opened easily, he peeped in,
looked in, went in, and soon came running out again.

‘John Peerybingle,’ said Tackleton, in his ear.  ‘I hope there has been
nothing—nothing rash in the night?’

The Carrier turned upon him quickly.

‘Because he’s gone!’ said Tackleton; ‘and the window’s open.  I don’t see
any marks—to be sure it’s almost on a level with the garden: but I was
afraid there might have been some—some scuffle.  Eh?’

He nearly shut up the expressive eye altogether; he looked at him so
hard.  And he gave his eye, and his face, and his whole person, a sharp
twist.  As if he would have screwed the truth out of him.

‘Make yourself easy,’ said the Carrier.  ‘He went into that room last
night, without harm in word or deed from me, and no one has entered it
since.  He is away of his own free will.  I’d go out gladly at that door,
and beg my bread from house to house, for life, if I could so change the
past that he had never come.  But he has come and gone.  And I have done
with him!’

‘Oh!—Well, I think he has got off pretty easy,’ said Tackleton, taking a
chair.

The sneer was lost upon the Carrier, who sat down too, and shaded his
face with his hand, for some little time, before proceeding.

‘You showed me last night,’ he said at length, ‘my wife; my wife that I
love; secretly—’

‘And tenderly,’ insinuated Tackleton.

‘Conniving at that man’s disguise, and giving him opportunities of
meeting her alone.  I think there’s no sight I wouldn’t have rather seen
than that.  I think there’s no man in the world I wouldn’t have rather
had to show it me.’

‘I confess to having had my suspicions always,’ said Tackleton.  ‘And
that has made me objectionable here, I know.’

‘But as you did show it me,’ pursued the Carrier, not minding him; ‘and
as you saw her, my wife, my wife that I love’—his voice, and eye, and
hand, grew steadier and firmer as he repeated these words: evidently in
pursuance of a steadfast purpose—‘as you saw her at this disadvantage, it
is right and just that you should also see with my eyes, and look into my
breast, and know what my mind is, upon the subject.  For it’s settled,’
said the Carrier, regarding him attentively.  ‘And nothing can shake it
now.’

Tackleton muttered a few general words of assent, about its being
necessary to vindicate something or other; but he was overawed by the
manner of his companion.  Plain and unpolished as it was, it had a
something dignified and noble in it, which nothing but the soul of
generous honour dwelling in the man could have imparted.

‘I am a plain, rough man,’ pursued the Carrier, ‘with very little to
recommend me.  I am not a clever man, as you very well know.  I am not a
young man.  I loved my little Dot, because I had seen her grow up, from a
child, in her father’s house; because I knew how precious she was;
because she had been my life, for years and years.  There’s many men I
can’t compare with, who never could have loved my little Dot like me, I
think!’

He paused, and softly beat the ground a short time with his foot, before
resuming.

‘I often thought that though I wasn’t good enough for her, I should make
her a kind husband, and perhaps know her value better than another; and
in this way I reconciled it to myself, and came to think it might be
possible that we should be married.  And in the end it came about, and we
were married.’

‘Hah!’ said Tackleton, with a significant shake of the head.

‘I had studied myself; I had had experience of myself; I knew how much I
loved her, and how happy I should be,’ pursued the Carrier.  ‘But I had
not—I feel it now—sufficiently considered her.’

‘To be sure,’ said Tackleton.  ‘Giddiness, frivolity, fickleness, love of
admiration!  Not considered!  All left out of sight!  Hah!’

‘You had best not interrupt me,’ said the Carrier, with some sternness,
‘till you understand me; and you’re wide of doing so.  If, yesterday, I’d
have struck that man down at a blow, who dared to breathe a word against
her, to-day I’d set my foot upon his face, if he was my brother!’

The Toy-merchant gazed at him in astonishment.  He went on in a softer
tone:

‘Did I consider,’ said the Carrier, ‘that I took her—at her age, and with
her beauty—from her young companions, and the many scenes of which she
was the ornament; in which she was the brightest little star that ever
shone, to shut her up from day to day in my dull house, and keep my
tedious company?  Did I consider how little suited I was to her sprightly
humour, and how wearisome a plodding man like me must be, to one of her
quick spirit?  Did I consider that it was no merit in me, or claim in me,
that I loved her, when everybody must, who knew her?  Never.  I took
advantage of her hopeful nature and her cheerful disposition; and I
married her.  I wish I never had!  For her sake; not for mine!’

The Toy-merchant gazed at him, without winking.  Even the half-shut eye
was open now.

‘Heaven bless her!’ said the Carrier, ‘for the cheerful constancy with
which she tried to keep the knowledge of this from me!  And Heaven help
me, that, in my slow mind, I have not found it out before!  Poor child!
Poor Dot!  _I_ not to find it out, who have seen her eyes fill with
tears, when such a marriage as our own was spoken of!  I, who have seen
the secret trembling on her lips a hundred times, and never suspected it
till last night!  Poor girl!  That I could ever hope she would be fond of
me!  That I could ever believe she was!’

‘She made a show of it,’ said Tackleton.  ‘She made such a show of it,
that to tell you the truth it was the origin of my misgivings.’

And here he asserted the superiority of May Fielding, who certainly made
no sort of show of being fond of _him_.

‘She has tried,’ said the poor Carrier, with greater emotion than he had
exhibited yet; ‘I only now begin to know how hard she has tried, to be my
dutiful and zealous wife.  How good she has been; how much she has done;
how brave and strong a heart she has; let the happiness I have known
under this roof bear witness!  It will be some help and comfort to me,
when I am here alone.’

‘Here alone?’ said Tackleton.  ‘Oh!  Then you do mean to take some notice
of this?’

‘I mean,’ returned the Carrier, ‘to do her the greatest kindness, and
make her the best reparation, in my power.  I can release her from the
daily pain of an unequal marriage, and the struggle to conceal it.  She
shall be as free as I can render her.’

‘Make _her_ reparation!’ exclaimed Tackleton, twisting and turning his
great ears with his hands.  ‘There must be something wrong here.  You
didn’t say that, of course.’

The Carrier set his grip upon the collar of the Toy-merchant, and shook
him like a reed.

‘Listen to me!’ he said.  ‘And take care that you hear me right.  Listen
to me.  Do I speak plainly?’

‘Very plainly indeed,’ answered Tackleton.

‘As if I meant it?’

‘Very much as if you meant it.’

‘I sat upon that hearth, last night, all night,’ exclaimed the Carrier.
‘On the spot where she has often sat beside me, with her sweet face
looking into mine.  I called up her whole life, day by day.  I had her
dear self, in its every passage, in review before me.  And upon my soul
she is innocent, if there is One to judge the innocent and guilty!’

Staunch Cricket on the Hearth!  Loyal household Fairies!

‘Passion and distrust have left me!’ said the Carrier; ‘and nothing but
my grief remains.  In an unhappy moment some old lover, better suited to
her tastes and years than I; forsaken, perhaps, for me, against her will;
returned.  In an unhappy moment, taken by surprise, and wanting time to
think of what she did, she made herself a party to his treachery, by
concealing it.  Last night she saw him, in the interview we witnessed.
It was wrong.  But otherwise than this she is innocent if there is truth
on earth!’

‘If that is your opinion’—Tackleton began.

‘So, let her go!’ pursued the Carrier.  ‘Go, with my blessing for the
many happy hours she has given me, and my forgiveness for any pang she
has caused me.  Let her go, and have the peace of mind I wish her!
She’ll never hate me.  She’ll learn to like me better, when I’m not a
drag upon her, and she wears the chain I have riveted, more lightly.
This is the day on which I took her, with so little thought for her
enjoyment, from her home.  To-day she shall return to it, and I will
trouble her no more.  Her father and mother will be here to-day—we had
made a little plan for keeping it together—and they shall take her home.
I can trust her, there, or anywhere.  She leaves me without blame, and
she will live so I am sure.  If I should die—I may perhaps while she is
still young; I have lost some courage in a few hours—she’ll find that I
remembered her, and loved her to the last!  This is the end of what you
showed me.  Now, it’s over!’

‘O no, John, not over.  Do not say it’s over yet!  Not quite yet.  I have
heard your noble words.  I could not steal away, pretending to be
ignorant of what has affected me with such deep gratitude.  Do not say
it’s over, ‘till the clock has struck again!’

She had entered shortly after Tackleton, and had remained there.  She
never looked at Tackleton, but fixed her eyes upon her husband.  But she
kept away from him, setting as wide a space as possible between them; and
though she spoke with most impassioned earnestness, she went no nearer to
him even then.  How different in this from her old self!

‘No hand can make the clock which will strike again for me the hours that
are gone,’ replied the Carrier, with a faint smile.  ‘But let it be so,
if you will, my dear.  It will strike soon.  It’s of little matter what
we say.  I’d try to please you in a harder case than that.’

‘Well!’ muttered Tackleton.  ‘I must be off, for when the clock strikes
again, it’ll be necessary for me to be upon my way to church.  Good
morning, John Peerybingle.  I’m sorry to be deprived of the pleasure of
your company.  Sorry for the loss, and the occasion of it too!’

‘I have spoken plainly?’ said the Carrier, accompanying him to the door.

‘Oh quite!’

‘And you’ll remember what I have said?’

‘Why, if you compel me to make the observation,’ said Tackleton,
previously taking the precaution of getting into his chaise; ‘I must say
that it was so very unexpected, that I’m far from being likely to forget
it.’

‘The better for us both,’ returned the Carrier.  ‘Good bye.  I give you
joy!’

‘I wish I could give it to _you_,’ said Tackleton.  ‘As I can’t;
thank’ee.  Between ourselves, (as I told you before, eh?) I don’t much
think I shall have the less joy in my married life, because May hasn’t
been too officious about me, and too demonstrative.  Good bye!  Take care
of yourself.’

The Carrier stood looking after him until he was smaller in the distance
than his horse’s flowers and favours near at hand; and then, with a deep
sigh, went strolling like a restless, broken man, among some neighbouring
elms; unwilling to return until the clock was on the eve of striking.

His little wife, being left alone, sobbed piteously; but often dried her
eyes and checked herself, to say how good he was, how excellent he was!
and once or twice she laughed; so heartily, triumphantly, and
incoherently (still crying all the time), that Tilly was quite horrified.

‘Ow if you please don’t!’ said Tilly.  ‘It’s enough to dead and bury the
Baby, so it is if you please.’

‘Will you bring him sometimes, to see his father, Tilly,’ inquired her
mistress, drying her eyes; ‘when I can’t live here, and have gone to my
old home?’

‘Ow if you please don’t!’ cried Tilly, throwing back her head, and
bursting out into a howl—she looked at the moment uncommonly like Boxer.
‘Ow if you please don’t!  Ow, what has everybody gone and been and done
with everybody, making everybody else so wretched!  Ow-w-w-w!’

The soft-hearted Slowboy trailed off at this juncture, into such a
deplorable howl, the more tremendous from its long suppression, that she
must infallibly have awakened the Baby, and frightened him into something
serious (probably convulsions), if her eyes had not encountered Caleb
Plummer, leading in his daughter.  This spectacle restoring her to a
sense of the proprieties, she stood for some few moments silent, with her
mouth wide open; and then, posting off to the bed on which the Baby lay
asleep, danced in a weird, Saint Vitus manner on the floor, and at the
same time rummaged with her face and head among the bedclothes,
apparently deriving much relief from those extraordinary operations.

‘Mary!’ said Bertha.  ‘Not at the marriage!’

‘I told her you would not be there, mum,’ whispered Caleb.  ‘I heard as
much last night.  But bless you,’ said the little man, taking her
tenderly by both hands, ‘I don’t care for what they say.  I don’t believe
them.  There an’t much of me, but that little should be torn to pieces
sooner than I’d trust a word against you!’

He put his arms about her and hugged her, as a child might have hugged
one of his own dolls.

‘Bertha couldn’t stay at home this morning,’ said Caleb.  ‘She was
afraid, I know, to hear the bells ring, and couldn’t trust herself to be
so near them on their wedding-day.  So we started in good time, and came
here.  I have been thinking of what I have done,’ said Caleb, after a
moment’s pause; ‘I have been blaming myself till I hardly knew what to do
or where to turn, for the distress of mind I have caused her; and I’ve
come to the conclusion that I’d better, if you’ll stay with me, mum, the
while, tell her the truth.  You’ll stay with me the while?’ he inquired,
trembling from head to foot.  ‘I don’t know what effect it may have upon
her; I don’t know what she’ll think of me; I don’t know that she’ll ever
care for her poor father afterwards.  But it’s best for her that she
should be undeceived, and I must bear the consequences as I deserve!’

‘Mary,’ said Bertha, ‘where is your hand!  Ah!  Here it is here it is!’
pressing it to her lips, with a smile, and drawing it through her arm.
‘I heard them speaking softly among themselves, last night, of some blame
against you.  They were wrong.’

The Carrier’s Wife was silent.  Caleb answered for her.

‘They were wrong,’ he said.

‘I knew it!’ cried Bertha, proudly.  ‘I told them so.  I scorned to hear
a word!  Blame _her_ with justice!’ she pressed the hand between her own,
and the soft cheek against her face.  ‘No!  I am not so blind as that.’

Her father went on one side of her, while Dot remained upon the other:
holding her hand.

‘I know you all,’ said Bertha, ‘better than you think.  But none so well
as her.  Not even you, father.  There is nothing half so real and so true
about me, as she is.  If I could be restored to sight this instant, and
not a word were spoken, I could choose her from a crowd!  My sister!’

‘Bertha, my dear!’ said Caleb, ‘I have something on my mind I want to
tell you, while we three are alone.  Hear me kindly!  I have a confession
to make to you, my darling.’

‘A confession, father?’

‘I have wandered from the truth and lost myself, my child,’ said Caleb,
with a pitiable expression in his bewildered face.  ‘I have wandered from
the truth, intending to be kind to you; and have been cruel.’

She turned her wonder-stricken face towards him, and repeated ‘Cruel!’

‘He accuses himself too strongly, Bertha,’ said Dot.  ‘You’ll say so,
presently.  You’ll be the first to tell him so.’

‘He cruel to me!’ cried Bertha, with a smile of incredulity.

‘Not meaning it, my child,’ said Caleb.  ‘But I have been; though I never
suspected it, till yesterday.  My dear blind daughter, hear me and
forgive me!  The world you live in, heart of mine, doesn’t exist as I
have represented it.  The eyes you have trusted in, have been false to
you.’

She turned her wonder-stricken face towards him still; but drew back, and
clung closer to her friend.

‘Your road in life was rough, my poor one,’ said Caleb, ‘and I meant to
smooth it for you.  I have altered objects, changed the characters of
people, invented many things that never have been, to make you happier.
I have had concealments from you, put deceptions on you, God forgive me!
and surrounded you with fancies.’

‘But living people are not fancies!’ she said hurriedly, and turning very
pale, and still retiring from him.  ‘You can’t change them.’

‘I have done so, Bertha,’ pleaded Caleb.  ‘There is one person that you
know, my dove—’

‘Oh father! why do you say, I know?’ she answered, in a term of keen
reproach.  ‘What and whom do _I_ know!  I who have no leader!  I so
miserably blind.’

In the anguish of her heart, she stretched out her hands, as if she were
groping her way; then spread them, in a manner most forlorn and sad, upon
her face.

‘The marriage that takes place to-day,’ said Caleb, ‘is with a stern,
sordid, grinding man.  A hard master to you and me, my dear, for many
years.  Ugly in his looks, and in his nature.  Cold and callous always.
Unlike what I have painted him to you in everything, my child.  In
everything.’

‘Oh why,’ cried the Blind Girl, tortured, as it seemed, almost beyond
endurance, ‘why did you ever do this!  Why did you ever fill my heart so
full, and then come in like Death, and tear away the objects of my love!
O Heaven, how blind I am!  How helpless and alone!’

Her afflicted father hung his head, and offered no reply but in his
penitence and sorrow.

She had been but a short time in this passion of regret, when the Cricket
on the Hearth, unheard by all but her, began to chirp.  Not merrily, but
in a low, faint, sorrowing way.  It was so mournful that her tears began
to flow; and when the Presence which had been beside the Carrier all
night, appeared behind her, pointing to her father, they fell down like
rain.

She heard the Cricket-voice more plainly soon, and was conscious, through
her blindness, of the Presence hovering about her father.

‘Mary,’ said the Blind Girl, ‘tell me what my home is.  What it truly
is.’

‘It is a poor place, Bertha; very poor and bare indeed.  The house will
scarcely keep out wind and rain another winter.  It is as roughly
shielded from the weather, Bertha,’ Dot continued in a low, clear voice,
‘as your poor father in his sack-cloth coat.’

The Blind Girl, greatly agitated, rose, and led the Carrier’s little wife
aside.

‘Those presents that I took such care of; that came almost at my wish,
and were so dearly welcome to me,’ she said, trembling; ‘where did they
come from?  Did you send them?’

‘No.’

‘Who then?’

Dot saw she knew, already, and was silent.  The Blind Girl spread her
hands before her face again.  But in quite another manner now.

‘Dear Mary, a moment.  One moment?  More this way.  Speak softly to me.
You are true, I know.  You’d not deceive me now; would you?’

‘No, Bertha, indeed!’

‘No, I am sure you would not.  You have too much pity for me.  Mary, look
across the room to where we were just now—to where my father is—my
father, so compassionate and loving to me—and tell me what you see.’

‘I see,’ said Dot, who understood her well, ‘an old man sitting in a
chair, and leaning sorrowfully on the back, with his face resting on his
hand.  As if his child should comfort him, Bertha.’

‘Yes, yes.  She will.  Go on.’

‘He is an old man, worn with care and work.  He is a spare, dejected,
thoughtful, grey-haired man.  I see him now, despondent and bowed down,
and striving against nothing.  But, Bertha, I have seen him many times
before, and striving hard in many ways for one great sacred object.  And
I honour his grey head, and bless him!’

The Blind Girl broke away from her; and throwing herself upon her knees
before him, took the grey head to her breast.

‘It is my sight restored.  It is my sight!’ she cried.  ‘I have been
blind, and now my eyes are open.  I never knew him!  To think I might
have died, and never truly seen the father who has been so loving to me!’

There were no words for Caleb’s emotion.

‘There is not a gallant figure on this earth,’ exclaimed the Blind Girl,
holding him in her embrace, ‘that I would love so dearly, and would
cherish so devotedly, as this!  The greyer, and more worn, the dearer,
father!  Never let them say I am blind again.  There’s not a furrow in
his face, there’s not a hair upon his head, that shall be forgotten in my
prayers and thanks to Heaven!’

Caleb managed to articulate ‘My Bertha!’

‘And in my blindness, I believed him,’ said the girl, caressing him with
tears of exquisite affection, ‘to be so different!  And having him beside
me, day by day, so mindful of me—always, never dreamed of this!’

‘The fresh smart father in the blue coat, Bertha,’ said poor Caleb.
‘He’s gone!’

‘Nothing is gone,’ she answered.  ‘Dearest father, no!  Everything is
here—in you.  The father that I loved so well; the father that I never
loved enough, and never knew; the benefactor whom I first began to
reverence and love, because he had such sympathy for me; All are here in
you.  Nothing is dead to me.  The soul of all that was most dear to me is
here—here, with the worn face, and the grey head.  And I am NOT blind,
father, any longer!’

Dot’s whole attention had been concentrated, during this discourse, upon
the father and daughter; but looking, now, towards the little Haymaker in
the Moorish meadow, she saw that the clock was within a few minutes of
striking, and fell, immediately, into a nervous and excited state.

‘Father,’ said Bertha, hesitating.  ‘Mary.’

‘Yes, my dear,’ returned Caleb.  ‘Here she is.’

‘There is no change in _her_.  You never told me anything of _her_ that
was not true?’

‘I should have done it, my dear, I am afraid,’ returned Caleb, ‘if I
could have made her better than she was.  But I must have changed her for
the worse, if I had changed her at all.  Nothing could improve her,
Bertha.’

Confident as the Blind Girl had been when she asked the question, her
delight and pride in the reply and her renewed embrace of Dot, were
charming to behold.

‘More changes than you think for, may happen though, my dear,’ said Dot.
‘Changes for the better, I mean; changes for great joy to some of us.
You mustn’t let them startle you too much, if any such should ever
happen, and affect you?  Are those wheels upon the road?  You’ve a quick
ear, Bertha.  Are they wheels?’

‘Yes.  Coming very fast.’

‘I—I—I know you have a quick ear,’ said Dot, placing her hand upon her
heart, and evidently talking on, as fast as she could to hide its
palpitating state, ‘because I have noticed it often, and because you were
so quick to find out that strange step last night.  Though why you should
have said, as I very well recollect you did say, Bertha, “Whose step is
that!” and why you should have taken any greater observation of it than
of any other step, I don’t know.  Though as I said just now, there are
great changes in the world: great changes: and we can’t do better than
prepare ourselves to be surprised at hardly anything.’

Caleb wondered what this meant; perceiving that she spoke to him, no less
than to his daughter.  He saw her, with astonishment, so fluttered and
distressed that she could scarcely breathe; and holding to a chair, to
save herself from falling.

‘They are wheels indeed!’ she panted.  ‘Coming nearer!  Nearer!  Very
close!  And now you hear them stopping at the garden-gate!  And now you
hear a step outside the door—the same step, Bertha, is it not!—and now!’—

She uttered a wild cry of uncontrollable delight; and running up to Caleb
put her hands upon his eyes, as a young man rushed into the room, and
flinging away his hat into the air, came sweeping down upon them.

‘Is it over?’ cried Dot.

‘Yes!’

‘Happily over?’

‘Yes!’

‘Do you recollect the voice, dear Caleb?  Did you ever hear the like of
it before?’ cried Dot.

‘If my boy in the Golden South Americas was alive’—said Caleb, trembling.

‘He is alive!’ shrieked Dot, removing her hands from his eyes, and
clapping them in ecstasy; ‘look at him!  See where he stands before you,
healthy and strong!  Your own dear son!  Your own dear living, loving
brother, Bertha!’

All honour to the little creature for her transports!  All honour to her
tears and laughter, when the three were locked in one another’s arms!
All honour to the heartiness with which she met the sunburnt
sailor-fellow, with his dark streaming hair, half-way, and never turned
her rosy little mouth aside, but suffered him to kiss it, freely, and to
press her to his bounding heart!

And honour to the Cuckoo too—why not!—for bursting out of the trap-door
in the Moorish Palace like a house-breaker, and hiccoughing twelve times
on the assembled company, as if he had got drunk for joy!

The Carrier, entering, started back.  And well he might, to find himself
in such good company.

‘Look, John!’ said Caleb, exultingly, ‘look here!  My own boy from the
Golden South Americas!  My own son!  Him that you fitted out, and sent
away yourself!  Him that you were always such a friend to!’

The Carrier advanced to seize him by the hand; but, recoiling, as some
feature in his face awakened a remembrance of the Deaf Man in the Cart,
said:

‘Edward!  Was it you?’

‘Now tell him all!’ cried Dot.  ‘Tell him all, Edward; and don’t spare
me, for nothing shall make me spare myself in his eyes, ever again.’

‘I was the man,’ said Edward.

‘And could you steal, disguised, into the house of your old friend?’
rejoined the Carrier.  ‘There was a frank boy once—how many years is it,
Caleb, since we heard that he was dead, and had it proved, we
thought?—who never would have done that.’

‘There was a generous friend of mine, once; more a father to me than a
friend;’ said Edward, ‘who never would have judged me, or any other man,
unheard.  You were he.  So I am certain you will hear me now.’

The Carrier, with a troubled glance at Dot, who still kept far away from
him, replied, ‘Well! that’s but fair.  I will.’

‘You must know that when I left here, a boy,’ said Edward, ‘I was in
love, and my love was returned.  She was a very young girl, who perhaps
(you may tell me) didn’t know her own mind.  But I knew mine, and I had a
passion for her.’

‘You had!’ exclaimed the Carrier.  ‘You!’

‘Indeed I had,’ returned the other.  ‘And she returned it.  I have ever
since believed she did, and now I am sure she did.’

‘Heaven help me!’ said the Carrier.  ‘This is worse than all.’

‘Constant to her,’ said Edward, ‘and returning, full of hope, after many
hardships and perils, to redeem my part of our old contract, I heard,
twenty miles away, that she was false to me; that she had forgotten me;
and had bestowed herself upon another and a richer man.  I had no mind to
reproach her; but I wished to see her, and to prove beyond dispute that
this was true.  I hoped she might have been forced into it, against her
own desire and recollection.  It would be small comfort, but it would be
some, I thought, and on I came.  That I might have the truth, the real
truth; observing freely for myself, and judging for myself, without
obstruction on the one hand, or presenting my own influence (if I had
any) before her, on the other; I dressed myself unlike myself—you know
how; and waited on the road—you know where.  You had no suspicion of me;
neither had—had she,’ pointing to Dot, ‘until I whispered in her ear at
that fireside, and she so nearly betrayed me.’

‘But when she knew that Edward was alive, and had come back,’ sobbed Dot,
now speaking for herself, as she had burned to do, all through this
narrative; ‘and when she knew his purpose, she advised him by all means
to keep his secret close; for his old friend John Peerybingle was much
too open in his nature, and too clumsy in all artifice—being a clumsy man
in general,’ said Dot, half laughing and half crying—‘to keep it for him.
And when she—that’s me, John,’ sobbed the little woman—‘told him all, and
how his sweetheart had believed him to be dead; and how she had at last
been over-persuaded by her mother into a marriage which the silly, dear
old thing called advantageous; and when she—that’s me again, John—told
him they were not yet married (though close upon it), and that it would
be nothing but a sacrifice if it went on, for there was no love on her
side; and when he went nearly mad with joy to hear it; then she—that’s me
again—said she would go between them, as she had often done before in old
times, John, and would sound his sweetheart and be sure that what she—me
again, John—said and thought was right.  And it was right, John!  And
they were brought together, John!  And they were married, John, an hour
ago!  And here’s the Bride!  And Gruff and Tackleton may die a bachelor!
And I’m a happy little woman, May, God bless you!’

She was an irresistible little woman, if that be anything to the purpose;
and never so completely irresistible as in her present transports.  There
never were congratulations so endearing and delicious, as those she
lavished on herself and on the Bride.

Amid the tumult of emotions in his breast, the honest Carrier had stood,
confounded.  Flying, now, towards her, Dot stretched out her hand to stop
him, and retreated as before.

‘No, John, no!  Hear all!  Don’t love me any more, John, till you’ve
heard every word I have to say.  It was wrong to have a secret from you,
John.  I’m very sorry.  I didn’t think it any harm, till I came and sat
down by you on the little stool last night.  But when I knew by what was
written in your face, that you had seen me walking in the gallery with
Edward, and when I knew what you thought, I felt how giddy and how wrong
it was.  But oh, dear John, how could you, could you, think so!’

Little woman, how she sobbed again!  John Peerybingle would have caught
her in his arms.  But no; she wouldn’t let him.

‘Don’t love me yet, please, John!  Not for a long time yet!  When I was
sad about this intended marriage, dear, it was because I remembered May
and Edward such young lovers; and knew that her heart was far away from
Tackleton.  You believe that, now.  Don’t you, John?’

John was going to make another rush at this appeal; but she stopped him
again.

‘No; keep there, please, John!  When I laugh at you, as I sometimes do,
John, and call you clumsy and a dear old goose, and names of that sort,
it’s because I love you, John, so well, and take such pleasure in your
ways, and wouldn’t see you altered in the least respect to have you made
a King to-morrow.’

‘Hooroar!’ said Caleb with unusual vigour.  ‘My opinion!’

‘And when I speak of people being middle-aged, and steady, John, and
pretend that we are a humdrum couple, going on in a jog-trot sort of way,
it’s only because I’m such a silly little thing, John, that I like,
sometimes, to act a kind of Play with Baby, and all that: and make
believe.’

She saw that he was coming; and stopped him again.  But she was very
nearly too late.

‘No, don’t love me for another minute or two, if you please, John!  What
I want most to tell you, I have kept to the last.  My dear, good,
generous John, when we were talking the other night about the Cricket, I
had it on my lips to say, that at first I did not love you quite so
dearly as I do now; that when I first came home here, I was half afraid I
mightn’t learn to love you every bit as well as I hoped and prayed I
might—being so very young, John!  But, dear John, every day and hour I
loved you more and more.  And if I could have loved you better than I do,
the noble words I heard you say this morning, would have made me.  But I
can’t.  All the affection that I had (it was a great deal, John) I gave
you, as you well deserve, long, long ago, and I have no more left to
give.  Now, my dear husband, take me to your heart again!  That’s my
home, John; and never, never think of sending me to any other!’

You never will derive so much delight from seeing a glorious little woman
in the arms of a third party, as you would have felt if you had seen Dot
run into the Carrier’s embrace.  It was the most complete, unmitigated,
soul-fraught little piece of earnestness that ever you beheld in all your
days.

You may be sure the Carrier was in a state of perfect rapture; and you may
be sure Dot was likewise; and you may be sure they all were, inclusive of
Miss Slowboy, who wept copiously for joy, and wishing to include her
young charge in the general interchange of congratulations, handed round
the Baby to everybody in succession, as if it were something to drink.

But, now, the sound of wheels was heard again outside the door; and
somebody exclaimed that Gruff and Tackleton was coming back.  Speedily
that worthy gentleman appeared, looking warm and flustered.

‘Why, what the Devil’s this, John Peerybingle!’ said Tackleton.  ‘There’s
some mistake.  I appointed Mrs. Tackleton to meet me at the church, and
I’ll swear I passed her on the road, on her way here.  Oh! here she is!
I beg your pardon, sir; I haven’t the pleasure of knowing you; but if you
can do me the favour to spare this young lady, she has rather a
particular engagement this morning.’

‘But I can’t spare her,’ returned Edward.  ‘I couldn’t think of it.’

‘What do you mean, you vagabond?’ said Tackleton.

‘I mean, that as I can make allowance for your being vexed,’ returned the
other, with a smile, ‘I am as deaf to harsh discourse this morning, as I
was to all discourse last night.’

The look that Tackleton bestowed upon him, and the start he gave!

‘I am sorry, sir,’ said Edward, holding out May’s left hand, and
especially the third finger; ‘that the young lady can’t accompany you to
church; but as she has been there once, this morning, perhaps you’ll
excuse her.’

Tackleton looked hard at the third finger, and took a little piece of
silver-paper, apparently containing a ring, from his waistcoat-pocket.

‘Miss Slowboy,’ said Tackleton.  ‘Will you have the kindness to throw
that in the fire?  Thank’ee.’

‘It was a previous engagement, quite an old engagement, that prevented my
wife from keeping her appointment with you, I assure you,’ said Edward.

‘Mr. Tackleton will do me the justice to acknowledge that I revealed it
to him faithfully; and that I told him, many times, I never could forget
it,’ said May, blushing.

‘Oh certainly!’ said Tackleton.  ‘Oh to be sure.  Oh it’s all right.
It’s quite correct.  Mrs. Edward Plummer, I infer?’

‘That’s the name,’ returned the bridegroom.

‘Ah, I shouldn’t have known you, sir,’ said Tackleton, scrutinising his
face narrowly, and making a low bow.  ‘I give you joy, sir!’

‘Thank’ee.’

‘Mrs. Peerybingle,’ said Tackleton, turning suddenly to where she stood
with her husband; ‘I am sorry.  You haven’t done me a very great
kindness, but, upon my life I am sorry.  You are better than I thought
you.  John Peerybingle, I am sorry.  You understand me; that’s enough.
It’s quite correct, ladies and gentlemen all, and perfectly satisfactory.
Good morning!’

With these words he carried it off, and carried himself off too: merely
stopping at the door, to take the flowers and favours from his horse’s
head, and to kick that animal once, in the ribs, as a means of informing
him that there was a screw loose in his arrangements.

Of course it became a serious duty now, to make such a day of it, as
should mark these events for a high Feast and Festival in the Peerybingle
Calendar for evermore.  Accordingly, Dot went to work to produce such an
entertainment, as should reflect undying honour on the house and on every
one concerned; and in a very short space of time, she was up to her
dimpled elbows in flour, and whitening the Carrier’s coat, every time he
came near her, by stopping him to give him a kiss.  That good fellow
washed the greens, and peeled the turnips, and broke the plates, and
upset iron pots full of cold water on the fire, and made himself useful
in all sorts of ways: while a couple of professional assistants, hastily
called in from somewhere in the neighbourhood, as on a point of life or
death, ran against each other in all the doorways and round all the
corners, and everybody tumbled over Tilly Slowboy and the Baby,
everywhere.  Tilly never came out in such force before.  Her ubiquity was
the theme of general admiration.  She was a stumbling-block in the
passage at five-and-twenty minutes past two; a man-trap in the kitchen at
half-past two precisely; and a pitfall in the garret at five-and-twenty
minutes to three.  The Baby’s head was, as it were, a test and touchstone
for every description of matter,—animal, vegetable, and mineral.  Nothing
was in use that day that didn’t come, at some time or other, into close
acquaintance with it.

Then, there was a great Expedition set on foot to go and find out Mrs.
Fielding; and to be dismally penitent to that excellent gentlewoman; and
to bring her back, by force, if needful, to be happy and forgiving.  And
when the Expedition first discovered her, she would listen to no terms at
all, but said, an unspeakable number of times, that ever she should have
lived to see the day! and couldn’t be got to say anything else, except,
‘Now carry me to the grave:’ which seemed absurd, on account of her not
being dead, or anything at all like it.  After a time, she lapsed into a
state of dreadful calmness, and observed, that when that unfortunate
train of circumstances had occurred in the Indigo Trade, she had foreseen
that she would be exposed, during her whole life, to every species of
insult and contumely; and that she was glad to find it was the case; and
begged they wouldn’t trouble themselves about her,—for what was she? oh,
dear! a nobody!—but would forget that such a being lived, and would take
their course in life without her.  From this bitterly sarcastic mood, she
passed into an angry one, in which she gave vent to the remarkable
expression that the worm would turn if trodden on; and, after that, she
yielded to a soft regret, and said, if they had only given her their
confidence, what might she not have had it in her power to suggest!
Taking advantage of this crisis in her feelings, the Expedition embraced
her; and she very soon had her gloves on, and was on her way to John
Peerybingle’s in a state of unimpeachable gentility; with a paper parcel
at her side containing a cap of state, almost as tall, and quite as
stiff, as a mitre.

Then, there were Dot’s father and mother to come, in another little
chaise; and they were behind their time; and fears were entertained; and
there was much looking out for them down the road; and Mrs. Fielding
always would look in the wrong and morally impossible direction; and
being apprised thereof, hoped she might take the liberty of looking where
she pleased.  At last they came: a chubby little couple, jogging along in
a snug and comfortable little way that quite belonged to the Dot family;
and Dot and her mother, side by side, were wonderful to see.  They were
so like each other.

Then, Dot’s mother had to renew her acquaintance with May’s mother; and
May’s mother always stood on her gentility; and Dot’s mother never stood
on anything but her active little feet.  And old Dot—so to call Dot’s
father, I forgot it wasn’t his right name, but never mind—took liberties,
and shook hands at first sight, and seemed to think a cap but so much
starch and muslin, and didn’t defer himself at all to the Indigo Trade,
but said there was no help for it now; and, in Mrs. Fielding’s summing
up, was a good-natured kind of man—but coarse, my dear.

I wouldn’t have missed Dot, doing the honours in her wedding-gown, my
benison on her bright face! for any money.  No! nor the good Carrier, so
jovial and so ruddy, at the bottom of the table.  Nor the brown, fresh
sailor-fellow, and his handsome wife.  Nor any one among them.  To have
missed the dinner would have been to miss as jolly and as stout a meal as
man need eat; and to have missed the overflowing cups in which they drank
The Wedding-Day, would have been the greatest miss of all.

After dinner, Caleb sang the song about the Sparkling Bowl.  As I’m a
living man, hoping to keep so, for a year or two, he sang it through.

And, by-the-by, a most unlooked-for incident occurred, just as he
finished the last verse.

There was a tap at the door; and a man came staggering in, without saying
with your leave, or by your leave, with something heavy on his head.
Setting this down in the middle of the table, symmetrically in the centre
of the nuts and apples, he said:

‘Mr. Tackleton’s compliments, and as he hasn’t got no use for the cake
himself, p’raps you’ll eat it.’

And with those words, he walked off.

There was some surprise among the company, as you may imagine.  Mrs.
Fielding, being a lady of infinite discernment, suggested that the cake
was poisoned, and related a narrative of a cake, which, within her
knowledge, had turned a seminary for young ladies, blue.  But she was
overruled by acclamation; and the cake was cut by May, with much ceremony
and rejoicing.

I don’t think any one had tasted it, when there came another tap at the
door, and the same man appeared again, having under his arm a vast
brown-paper parcel.

‘Mr. Tackleton’s compliments, and he’s sent a few toys for the Babby.
They ain’t ugly.’

After the delivery of which expressions, he retired again.

The whole party would have experienced great difficulty in finding words
for their astonishment, even if they had had ample time to seek them.
But they had none at all; for the messenger had scarcely shut the door
behind him, when there came another tap, and Tackleton himself walked in.

‘Mrs. Peerybingle!’ said the Toy-merchant, hat in hand.  ‘I’m sorry.  I’m
more sorry than I was this morning.  I have had time to think of it.
John Peerybingle!  I’m sour by disposition; but I can’t help being
sweetened, more or less, by coming face to face with such a man as you.
Caleb!  This unconscious little nurse gave me a broken hint last night,
of which I have found the thread.  I blush to think how easily I might
have bound you and your daughter to me, and what a miserable idiot I was,
when I took her for one!  Friends, one and all, my house is very lonely
to-night.  I have not so much as a Cricket on my Hearth.  I have scared
them all away.  Be gracious to me; let me join this happy party!’

He was at home in five minutes.  You never saw such a fellow.  What _had_
he been doing with himself all his life, never to have known, before, his
great capacity of being jovial!  Or what had the Fairies been doing with
him, to have effected such a change!

‘John! you won’t send me home this evening; will you?’ whispered Dot.

He had been very near it though!

There wanted but one living creature to make the party complete; and, in
the twinkling of an eye, there he was, very thirsty with hard running,
and engaged in hopeless endeavours to squeeze his head into a narrow
pitcher.  He had gone with the cart to its journey’s end, very much
disgusted with the absence of his master, and stupendously rebellious to
the Deputy.  After lingering about the stable for some little time,
vainly attempting to incite the old horse to the mutinous act of
returning on his own account, he had walked into the tap-room and laid
himself down before the fire.  But suddenly yielding to the conviction
that the Deputy was a humbug, and must be abandoned, he had got up again,
turned tail, and come home.

There was a dance in the evening.  With which general mention of that
recreation, I should have left it alone, if I had not some reason to
suppose that it was quite an original dance, and one of a most uncommon
figure.  It was formed in an odd way; in this way.

Edward, that sailor-fellow—a good free dashing sort of a fellow he
was—had been telling them various marvels concerning parrots, and mines,
and Mexicans, and gold dust, when all at once he took it in his head to
jump up from his seat and propose a dance; for Bertha’s harp was there,
and she had such a hand upon it as you seldom hear.  Dot (sly little
piece of affectation when she chose) said her dancing days were over; _I_
think because the Carrier was smoking his pipe, and she liked sitting by
him, best.  Mrs. Fielding had no choice, of course, but to say _her_
dancing days were over, after that; and everybody said the same, except
May; May was ready.

So, May and Edward got up, amid great applause, to dance alone; and
Bertha plays her liveliest tune.

Well! if you’ll believe me, they have not been dancing five minutes, when
suddenly the Carrier flings his pipe away, takes Dot round the waist,
dashes out into the room, and starts off with her, toe and heel, quite
wonderfully.  Tackleton no sooner sees this, than he skims across to Mrs.
Fielding, takes her round the waist, and follows suit.  Old Dot no sooner
sees this, than up he is, all alive, whisks off Mrs. Dot in the middle of
the dance, and is the foremost there.  Caleb no sooner sees this, than he
clutches Tilly Slowboy by both hands and goes off at score; Miss Slowboy,
firm in the belief that diving hotly in among the other couples, and
effecting any number of concussions with them, is your only principle of
footing it.

Hark! how the Cricket joins the music with its Chirp, Chirp, Chirp; and
how the kettle hums!

                               

But what is this!  Even as I listen to them, blithely, and turn towards
Dot, for one last glimpse of a little figure very pleasant to me, she and
the rest have vanished into air, and I am left alone.  A Cricket sings
upon the Hearth; a broken child’s-toy lies upon the ground; and nothing
else remains.


