

THE ELEPHANT's BALL, AND GRAND FETE CHAMPETRE





  The insects and birds, with the balls and their feasts
  Caus'd much conversation among all the beasts:
  The Elephant, famous for sense as for size,
  At such entertainments express'd much surprise;
  Says he, "shall these impudent tribes of the air,              
  To break our soft slumbers thus wantonly dare?
  Shall these petty creatures, us beasts far below,
  Exceed us in consequence, fashion, and show?
  Forbid it, true dignity, honour and pride!--
  A grand rural fête I will shortly provide,
  That for pomp, taste, and splendor, shall far leave behind,
  All former attempts of a similar kind."
  The Buffalo, Bison, Elk, Antelope, Pard,
  All heard what he spoke, with due marks of regard.



  A number of messengers quickly he sent                        
  To the beasts, far and near, to make known his intent.
  The place he design'd for the scene of his plan,
  Was a valley remote from the dwellings of man:
  Well guarded with mountains, embellished with trees,
  And furnish'd with rivers, that flow'd to the seas.
  Here first came the Lion so gallant and strong,
  Well known by his main that is shaggy and long;
  The Jackall, his slave, follow'd close in his rear,
  Resolv'd the good things with his master to share.
  The Leopard came next--a gay sight to the eye,                
  --With his coat spotted over--like stars in the sky--
  The Tiger his system of slaughter declin'd,
  At once, a good supper and pleasure to find.
  The bulky Rhinoceros, came with his bride;
  Well arm'd with his horn, and his coat of mail hide.
  Then came the Hyena, whose cries authors say,         
  Oft lead the fond traveller out of his way,           
  Whom quickly he seizes and renders his prey.          
  The Wolf hasten'd hither, that Ruffian so bold,
  Who kills the poor sheep, when they stray from the fold.



  The Bear having slept the long winter away,                    
  Arriv'd, from the north, to be merry and gay.
  The Panther ferocious--the Lynx of quick sight,
  The Preacher[1] and Glutton[1] came hither that night.
  The Camel, so often with burthens opprest,
  Was glad for a while from his labour to rest.
  The Sloth, when invited, got up with much pain,
  Just groan'd out, "Ah, No!" and then laid down again.
  The Fox, near the hen-roost, no longer kept watch,
  But hied to the feast, better viands to catch.
  The Monkey, so cunning, and full of his sport,                  
  To show _All his Talents_ came to this resort.
  The Dog and Grimalkin[2] from service releas'd,
  Expected good snacks, at the end of the feast:
  The first at the gate, as a centinel stood;
  The last kept the Rats and the Mice from the food.
  The crowd of strange quadrupeds seen at the ball,
  'Twere tedious and needless to mention them all;
  To shorten the story, suffice it to say
  Some scores, nay some hundreds, attended that day.--



  But most of the tame and domestical kind,                       
  For fear of some stratagem, tarried behind.
  Due caution is prudent! but laws had been made--
  No Beast, on that night, should another invade.
  Before we go farther, 'tis proper to state,
  Each female was asked to attend with her mate:
  Of these, many came to this fête of renown,
  But some were prevented by causes well known.
  Now Sol had retir'd to the ocean to sleep:
  The Guests had arriv'd their gay vigils to keep--
  Their hall was a lawn, of sufficient extent.
  Well skirted with trees, the rude winds to prevent:
  The thick-woven branches deep curtains display'd;               
  And heaven's high arch a grand canopy made.
  Some thousands of lamps, fix'd to poplars were seen,
  That shone most resplendent, red, yellow, and green.
  When forms, introductions, and such were gone through,
  'Twas quickly resolv'd the gay dance to pursue;
  The musical band, on a terrace appearing,
  Perform'd many tunes that enchanted the hearing;
  The Ape, on the haut-boy much science display'd--
  The Monkey the fiddle delightfully play'd--
  The Orang Outang touch'd the harp with great skill,   
  The Ass beat the drum, with effect and good will,     
  And the Squirrel kept ringing his merry bells still.  



  The Elephant, stately, majestic and tall,                      
  With Cousin Rhinoceros open'd the ball--
  With dignified mien the two partners advanc'd,
  And the _De la Cour_ minuet gracefully danc'd.
  The Lion and Unicorn, beasts of great fame,
  With much admiration, accomplish'd the same.
  The Tiger and Leopard, an active young pair,
  Perform'd a brisk jig, with an excellent air.
  Next Bruin[3] stood up with a good natur'd smile,     
  And caper'd a horn-pipe, in singular style,           
  With a staff in his paws, and erect all the while.    
  The Fox, Wolf, and Panther, their humours to please,            
  Danc'd three-handed reels with much spirit and ease.
  A few tried cotillions, and such like French fancies,
  But most of them join'd in John Bull's country dances.
  Some beasts were not us'd to these violent motions,
  And some were too old or too grave in their notions;
  Of these a great many diverted their hours
  With whist, lue, backgammon, quadrille or all-fours.
  Much time being spent in these pleasing diversions,
  A motion was made to remit their exertions:
  For supper was waiting; which, on this occasion,
  Was manag'd with skill, and exact regulation.



  The bosom of earth a firm table supply'd--                     
  The cloth was green grass, with gay flow'rets bedy'd;
  The various utensils by nature were cast,
  And suited completely this antique repast.
  The generous host had provided great plenty,
  To suit various palates, of every dainty.
  Some scores of fat oxen were roasted entire,
  For those whose keen stomachs plain beef might require.
  Profusion of veal, nice lamb, and good mutton,
  To tickle the taste of each more refin'd glutton--
  Abundance of fish, game and poultry, for those
  Whose epicure palates such niceties chose.
  Ripe fruits and rich sweet meats were serv'd, in great store,  
  Of which much remain'd when the banquet was o'er;
  For, as to mild foods of the vegetive kind,
  Few guests at the table to these were inclin'd;
  Rare hap for such persons as travell'd that way,
  By chance or design, on the following day.
  On wine and strong spirits few chose to regale,
  As most were accustom'd to Adam's old ale.
  When supper was ended, and each happy guest
  Had freely partaken of what he lov'd best;
  Of toasts and of sentiments various were giv'n;
  As "Health to our Host, and the Land that we live in."


  The former was drank with huzzas, three-times-three,          
  Which echo repeated with rapturous glee.
  Now mirth and good humour pervaded the throng,
  And each was requested to furnish a song,
  Which many comply'd with; but such as deny'd,
  Some whimsical laughable story supply'd.
  The Lion, "Britannia Rule," sung mighty well:
  The Tiger, "in English Roast Beef," did excel.
  While others made all the wide valley to ring,
  With "Nile's Glorious Battle," and "God Save the King."
  In such good amusements the evening they past,                 
  Till Aurora appear'd to the eastward at last:
  When back to their homes, they return'd one and all,
  Well pleas'd with the sports at the Elephant's Ball.








oh ye who so lately were blythesome and gay at the butterflys banquet carousing away your feasts and your revels of pleasure are fled for the soul of the banquet the butterflys dead no longer the flies and the emmets advance to join with their friends in the grasshoppers dance for see his thin form oer the favourite bend and the grasshopper mourns for the loss of his friend and hark to the funeral dirge of the bee  and the beetle who follows as solemn as he and see where so mournful the green rushes wave the mole is preparing the butterflys grave the dormouse attended but cold and forlorn  and the gnat slowly winded his shrill little horn and the moth who was grievd for the loss of a sister bent over the body and silently kist her the corse was embalmd at the set of the sun  and enclosd in a case which the silkworm had spun by the help of the hornet the coffin was laid on a bier out of myrtle and jessamine made in weepers and scarfs came the butterflies all  and six of their numbers supported the pall  and the spider came there in his mourning so black but the fire of the glowworm soon frightend him back  the grub left his nutshell to join the sad throng and slowly led with him the bookworm along  who wept his poor neighbours unfortunate doom  and wrote these few lines to be placd on his tomb at this solemn spot where the green rushes wave  here sadly we bent oer the butterflys grave  twas here we to beauty our obsequies paid  and hallowd the mound which her ashes have made and here shall the daisy and violet blow and the lily discover her bosom of snow  while under the leaf in the evenings of spring still mourning her friend shall the grasshopper sing
come take up your hats and away let us haste to the butterflys ball and the grasshoppers feast the trumpeter gadfly has summond the crew and the revels are now only waiting for you so said little robert and pacing along his merry companions came forth in a throng  and on the smooth grass by the side of a wood  beneath a broad oak that for ages had stood saw the children of earth and the tenants of air for an evenings amusement together repair and there came the beetle so blind and so black  who carried the emmet his friend on his back and there was the gnat and the dragonfly too with all their relations green orange and blue  and there came the moth with his plumage of down and the hornet in jacket of yellow and brown who with him the wasp his companion did bring but they promisd that evening to lay by their sting and the sly little dormouse crept out of his hole  and brought to the feast his blind brother the mole and the snail with his horns peeping out of his shell came from a great distance the length of an ell a mushroom their table and on it was laid  a waterdock leaf which a tablecloth made the viands were various to each of their taste  and the bee brought her honey to crown the repast then close on his haunches so solemn and wise the frog from a corner lookd up to the skies and the squirrel well pleasd such diversions to see  mounted high over head and lookd down from a tree  then out came the spider with finger so fine to shew his dexterity on the tight line from one branch to another his cobwebs he slung then quick as an arrow he darted along  but just in the middleoh shocking to tell from his rope in an instant poor harlequin fell yet he touchd not the ground but with talons outspread  hung suspended in air at the end of a thread then the grasshopper came with a jerk and a spring very long was his leg though but short was his wing he took but three leaps and was soon out of sight then chirpd his own praises the rest of the night with step so majestic the snail did advance  and promisd the gazers a minuet to dance  but they all laughd so loud that he pulld in his head  and went in his own little chamber to bed then as evening gave way to the shadows of night their watchman the glowworm came out with a light then home let us hasten while yet we can see for no watchman is waiting for you and for me so said little robert and pacing along his merry companions returned in a throng
