











CONTENTS. 



CHAP. I. 

A young Bee, deceived by fine weather, leave* 
the Hive too early, and contrary to the advice 
and commands of his Mother His sufferings 
and close confinement, the result of his disobe- 
dience : excites the compassion of a Butterfly 
a friendship formed between them in conse- 
quence of it. 

CHAP. II. 

The Bee gets again on the wing Is introduc- 
ed by his friend to a field of cowslips Inter- 
rupted by Children Instance of vanity in the 
Butterfly Conversation of the Bee and his Friend 
as they return He resolves to find his Hive. 



CHAP. III. 

The Bee out early in search of his former 
abode, accompanies the Butterfly to a bed of 
Tulips Farther discovery of vanity in the lat- 
ter Children in pursuit of him The Bee ap- 
pears in his defence and commits a great outrage 
He sees his Hive at a distance His Joy on be- 
holding it -His Return and Re-admission there 
The consequence of a Bee in danger. 

CHAP. IV. 

The farther flights of the Bee and the Butter- 
fly Visit to a Cottage Such abodes not always 
the dwelling of Peace Disagreement between 
two Friends The meanness of an Informer 
The Bee's observation on their conduct Regard 
to appearances observable in Creatures superior to 
the Butterfly His triumph on perceiving it. 

CHAP. V. 

The Butterfly deceived by a Flower Their 
visit to a conservatory The alarm occasioned by 
their joining a Party after Dinuer A Battle en- 
sue*, The Bee puts the Indies- to flight His 




CHAP. VI. 

confinement The Butterfly's anxiety Hi* 
Friend regains bis Liberty and returns late to the 
Hire The Butterfly detects flattery in a Gentle- 
man to a Lady, and is alarmed by a hint from his 
Friend as they separate for the Night. 

The Bees swarm Their fondness for their 
Queen The Bee in waiting The Butterfly goeg 
into the Country on a party of Pleasure, is over- 
taken by a Storm Returns in a Stage-coach- 
An Officer exercising his genius in hoaxinghis 
Fellow-travellers The Butterfly recounts his ad- 
ventures to his Friend Their remarks on what 
passed during his Journey* 

CHAP. VII. 

The Butterfly's alarm, and account of a Natu- 
ralist Wasps ensnared in a Bottle A Bee 
drowning in a Pot of Honey, is extricated by 
his Friend Flies The Be's remarks upon 
them, nearly offends his Friend by comparing 
them with him The Butterfly foretells the ap- 
proach of Winter, and notwithstanding the kind 
ejudeavours of his Friend, dies The Bee's Regret 



He performs the last ^Office for him, and re 
turns to the Hive, where, after remaining the 
Winter, he persuades the whole Community to 
remove their Quarters They forsake their Hive 
and retire beyond the reach of Men. 



PREFACE. 



THE flattering pictures of men 
and manners, which are drawn in 
most of the present publications 
for youth, can alone be well ap- 
plied, when they are considered 
not as what mankind are, but what 
they ought to be ; and, indeed, 
we may search the world through 
before we find their likeness. 

Such is the simplicity of un- 
guarded youth, that even when 
disappointed in their expectation 
of happiness from one quarter, 



X 

they seek it in another equally 
fallacious ; and, drawing all their 
ideas from fancied " excellencies, 
fondly imagine, that; while looking 
onily for mental satisfaction,; and 
the pleasures arising from friend- 
ship, rational society, and theex-v 
cercises ,of humanity, they cannot 
Le mistaken in the pursuit; though 
too often the frequent mconsisten-r 
cies observable in those whom 
they have been led most to admire, 
excites a sigh pf sad surprise, till 
from a. more enlarged judgment, 
matured and exercised with a feel- 
ing sense of what they view, they 


XX 

learu that continual and glaring 
absurdities are all the fruit pro- 
duced in -nature's soil. 

It is to open this lesson to tfient 
that the following pages are writ- 
ten, and with the hope that if 
Folly does not blind their eyes, 
and Prejudice (who, which&^er 
way she turns, chooses to see 
things only through her own me- 
dium,) has not yet erected her 
throne in their breasts, they may 
receive even from the limited re- 
marks of a Bee and a Butterfly 
a gentle hint or two of what they 
may expect to meet with in their 



XII 

future walks through life ; and 
thus warned of the strange con- 
trarieties, perceivable in human 
pature, escape the additional pang 
their being totally unexpected 
would produce. 





CHAP. I. 

" Imagination to his view 
" Presents it, deck'd with every hue, 
" That can seduce him not to spare 
" His pow'rs of best exertion there." 

COWPER. 

A Bee who had patted the firft winter 
of his life under the foftering care of his 
mother, though often warned by her of 
miftaking a fine day early in the fpring 
for the fummer, or the time in which 
it would be of any ufe to make an ex- 
curfion from the hive,, was eager to 
begin his travels; he heard his compan- 




ions talking of the flights they had taken 
in the former fummer, and had tailed 
of the honey they had at that time 
brought home, and laid up in (lore for 
food when none other could be procured: 
he had alfo enjoyed fome of thofe flights 
"with them., and had helped to gather in 
the common ftoc^, (for Bees, though ever 
fo youngs are feldom idle;) but he was 
not aware that many a cold and wintYy 
day would yet precede the time of ga- 
thering in a frefh ftore ; even after the 
fun had fhone. and the birds had fung, 
as if it was nearly come. 

During the feverity of winter he 
remained quietly in his cell, rejoiced 
in the fhelter it afforded him, and joined 
the crowded hive in paying every re- 
fpfccl to their queen and mother, who, 
while (he treated them with the care 
and tendernefs of a parent, kept up her 




dignity as a foyereign, and ruled her 
fubjefts with the greateft order. Every* 
part of her dominions was thoroughly 
known to her, and nothing fuffered to 
remain within them that could annoy 
her numerous family; fhe rejoiced in 
their prosperity, and all were happy 
'under her government except the little 
fellow who is to be the hero of my tale. 
He would often creep to the entrance 
of the hive and peep, firft on one fide 
and then on the other, of the covering 
placed before it by its careful owners, 
while the bluftering winds were 
raging around; but no fooner did the 
leaft warm weather appear than it was 
removed for the inhabitants to have 
more air, and this, to our young one, 
was a joyful fight; he looked upon it 
as a prelude to the fummer, and run- 
ning to his companions, he faid, " we 


fhall foon be able to get out, the way is 
open/' 

" Be not too eager;" replied one of 
more experience than himfelf, te by 
the time one winter has pafifed over your 
head you may be a little wifer." 

" It is paffed, I think," returned the 
young one, v don't you feel the warmth 
of the fun? It reminds me of the plea- 
fant rambles we took together laft 
fuHnmer, and I am impatient to renew 
them." 

" Yon are indeed impatient" replied 
the hoar} Bee/' but time enough yet ; 
don't you know that our cities are 
always placed in fuch advantageous 
fituations that we have the earl left benefit 
from the fun's rays ? but let not this make 
you fuppofe the feafon farther advanc- 
ed than it is." 

" Well, now," replied the conceited 




chatterer, (< only put your head out and 
feel how very warm it is." 

" No, * I thank you/' returned the 
other, with a fhrug; " I know what it 
is to trufl to appearances, and can feel 
even here that the cold weather is not 
gone, and if you go only to the back of 
the hive you may hear how the wind ftill 
whittles behind it." 

" I had rather look at the funfhine/' 
returned the fimple one, and leaving his 
fage advifer he determined to think that 
it was becaufe he was old and lazy he 
wifhed to ftay at home, and keep others 
there alfo, as an excufe for his own idle- 
nefs; " let them ftay then," faid he, 
" but for my part I am inclined to make 
the moft of my time., and no doubt fhall 
bring home many a load before thefe 
old creepers will believe that there is 
any thing to be gathered." 



This refolution of the young Bee was 
not long a fecret in the community; he 
fcuzzed it about among all his acquain- 
tances ; nor was it hid from the queen, 
\vho, acting in the two-fold character, 
firft warned him of the danger, and 
then, on pain of their not being re-ad- 
rained, abfolutely forbade any one's 
Agoing out of the hive without her leave. 
But what can deter the obftinacy of a 
conceited youngfter? Nothing. If ex- 
perience obliges him to confefs that 
in one thing he is wrong, he ftill conti- 
nues as firmly bent upon another ; and 
if 'once inclined to think that he muft 
know as well as others, will continue to 
think fo, till experience teaches him that 
in all things he is liable to miftake. 
But my little hero was not yet brought 
to this conclufion, neither perhaps are 
many who will read his hiftory; but, as 
our ingenious fabwlilt tells us, 





" Every object of creation 

" Can furnish hints for contemplation," 

who knowsvvhether fomething may not 
be learnt from the hifiory of a Bee? 

In fpite of the remonftrances of 
her majefty, he ftill wifhed to get out, 
and after daily vifiting the front of the 
hive for nearly a month, during which 
time the fine weather continued, he be- 
gan to perfuade himfelf the interdiction 
could not extend fo far as this; <f It has 
been fine a great while," laid he to him- 
felf, " and if we flay within at this rate 
we fhali let all the fummer pafs away ;" 
and again his former furmife returned, 
" they are old and lazy," continued he, 
" and while they have any food left, are 
determined not to feek for more ; I will 
not ftay, however;" and he was ftill farj 
ther confirmed in this refolution, when 
boldly advancing quite out on the block 





hefaw other Bees, from a neighbouring 
hive, taking the air, and appearing like 
himfelf to be thinking it high time to 
get abroad. A fwarm of infecls -alfo 
were enjoying themfelves, and frifking 
about in the warm fun. Struck with 
fhame that thefe fhould be on the wing 
before him, he at that moment forgot 
all the kind admonitions of his mother, 
and the punifhment that awaited him 
if he difobeyed them ; and mounting in 
the^ air, his loud humming tellified his 
joy at being again at liberty. But alas ! 
where was he to go ? or to what flower 
could he now pay his court ? The flut- 
tering infecls he had feen were but the 
dancers of the day, juft born to frifk a 
few hours, and then return to their ori- 
ginal nothingnefs; and our young ad- 
venturer difdained to join the giddy 
train., or even to appear to notice what 





was fo unlike the character of a bufy 
Bee. 

It was now the latter end of April, 
when the thorn is in blofibm, violets 
and primrofes aifo decorate the hedges, 
and the hypatica, and polyanthus " of 
unnumbered dyes/' already appeared in 
the gardens ; but very few leaves were 
yet on the trees, though the buds were 
burfiing, and many of the fruit-trees 
were in full bloom ; to thefe our little 
wanderer winged his way, and as he flew 
from bloffom to bloflbm, and from one 
branch to the other, he could not but 
acknowledge with regret that his limbs 
felt cold, and very different from the 
vigour they poffeffed the former fum- 
mer. He wifhed to attribute it to his 
having been kept fo long within the 
hive, but a fudden blaft foon checked 
his ardour ; a fhivering came over him, 




and a drowfinefs, which he could not 
account for, fucceeded;prefently a pelt- 
ing fhower obliged him to creep for 
fhelter into a wall, againft which the 
trees were nailed, and here he began to 
fee his error; " Can I go back again?" 
faid he ;" Ah ! no, they will not receive - 
me; my ablence is by this time known, 
and I am never to be admitted more. 
Oh, my mother ! would that I had fol- 
lowed your counfel!" 

He had fcarcely fpoken thefe words, 
when a mid fpread itfelf before his 
eyes; his breath appeared failing, and 
he found himfelf itill more inclined to 
fleep, yet inftincl: told him that in 
fuch a (tate to give way to the inclina- 
tion was dangerous ; he feared the cold 
would feize him while iufenfible, and 
his life muft pay for it, but all his 
efforts to keep himfelf awake were 





vain ; the rain continued fo, that he 
could not get out to ufe his wings, and at 
length loft to all recolleclion, he funk 
ftupid and fenfelefs to the bottom of 
his retreat. 

How long he continued in this torpid 
ftate I cannot fay, but his friends he had 
left, after anxioufly expecling his return 
from day to day, and being difappoint- 
ed a gave him up for loft; and though he 
often awoke during his confinement, it 
was only to a keener fenfe of his mifery ; 
his limbs were ftill too ftiff to move, his 
eyes dim, and each time that he clofed 
them to return to fleep, (now the only 
alleviation of hisforrows, ) he concluded 
he fhpuld never open them again : he 
breathed a figh of regret on the remem- 
brance of the home he had quitted, and 
would gladly have returned, and in the 
prefence of the whole community ac- 





knowledge his rafhnefs ; but alas ! he 
could not now move a wing : yet as the 
warm weather came on, he felt himfelf 
revive beyond his hopes : he could look 
out from the place of his confinement, 
and though not fo ardent in his expecta- 
tions as a few weeks before, hebegan again 
to feel a pleafure in the rays of the fun, 
and to anticipate a future enjoyment of 
them. <c I mall not die/' faid he to 
himfelf, " but (hall yet be able to ac- 
complifh my defire, and fhew myfelf an 
induftrious Bee/' 

The trees on which he had before 
obferved only blofTom were now full 
of leaves; where the bloom had firft 
appeared, he faw the fruit, yet in its 
infant ftate. f< This is not now the food 
for me," faid he, and he looked wifh ful- 
ly around to obferve if there were 
any flowers near, from which he could 





gather his accuflomed nourifhment. 
While thus engaged, a Butterfly, on fpor- 
tive wing, came frifking by, and though 
he let tied fir ft on one leaf, and then on an- 
other, was unmindful of him,, till he fixed 
direclly on that which (haded the place 
from which our poor invalid was examin- 
ing the neighbouring plants. (C Oh !" 
faid he, with a heavy figh, as he marked 
the light wing of this new comer, " Oh ! 
that I could fly like him and ramble from 
flower to flower, without pain or dread 
of any." 

The attention of the Butterfly was 
attra&ed by the mournful tone in 
which this was uttered, and unlike many 
of his kind, he even flopped to liften to 
the complaining infecl, and afk if he 
could relieve him; " Perhaps," faid he, 
t( you are entangled in a fpider's web; 




and though lam unufed to the art of war, 
I will endeavour to liberate you." 

<f An offer like this/' replied the 
Bee, " I fhould not have expected 
from one of your nature ; but you 
can give me no afiiftance; it is not a 
web which keeps me here/ but ill 
health, and which I have brought upon 
myfelf by my own folly: I have no 
one elfe to blame, that I am not flying 
about as you are, though I hope 
to fome better purpofe." 

<e Do not be too fure.of that," re- 
plied the good-humoured Butterfly, 
c: nor defpife the help of one fo' infignl- 
ficant as you fuppofe I am; if I can 
in any way a. (lift you, I (hall not have 
been flying about in vain." 

" I beg your pardon," returned the 
Bee, confcious that he fhould not 



have anfwered in fuch a manner ; 
" pray let the pain I feel plead my 
excufe; I have been confined within 
Ibis place for I don't know how long, 
and now I feel the enlivening beams of 
the fun without being able to enjoy 
them, and mud even fiarve for want 
cf food, after I have efcaped death from 
the cold fhat fir(t feized me." 

"Do not bedifcouraged," replied the 
Butterfly,, " look at the border jutt below 
yon, where there are many of the 
mo*! beautiful flowers J fu rely they will 
afford you nourimment ; you need not 
fear fiarving in the midit of plenty." 

" I can't extend nay wings," faid the 
Bee, very mournfully. 

"If not your wings,," replied his 
cheerful comforter, (C can't you ufe 
your feet and crawl down the wall, 
and then upon the ground, till you 



reach the flowers ; don't be afraid, I'll 
venture my life that you will be able 
to fly after taking a little of the delici- 
ous food they offer you." . 

Animated by the Butterfly's words, the 
poor half-ftarved Bee endeavoured to 
follow his advice, and flowly creeping 
forth, he reached at length the defira- 
ble haven of a beautiful convolvulus, 
whofe head refted on the ground, whilft 
his compaffionate advifer waited on 
the neareft bud to obferve his pro- 
grefs; " did not I fay you could reach 
it?'' faid he, fluttering his wings for 
joy, ef who (hall defpife the counfel 
of a Butterfly ?" 

"I will not for the future/' replied the 
Bee, as he felt himfelf reviving from the 
fweet fmell of the flowers, and the warm 
rays of the fun fhining full upon his 
back, and a^ain he entreated him to 




pardon the churlifhnefs with which he 

at firft received it. 

te Oh, fay no more of that," return. 
cd the Butterfly, " but tell me if you 
do not find yourfelf better already ? 
whaf, becaufe you could hot fly, were 
youtofiarve? Thottghitmaybeadifgrace 
for one who has wings to crawl, yet fure- 
ly it is better to do this than lie down 
and die; but I do not defpair of feeing 
you fly to-morrow;" and, as he faid this, 
extended his wings, as if to depart. 

" You will not leave me," faid the 
Bee, who the longer he nefiled in the 
bell of the flower and tafted the food it 
afforded, felt his affeclion increafe for 
the means through which he hadprocured 
it; " Won't you flay and fee me return 
to my habitation ? I think you'll already 
obferve an alteration for the better." 

The Butterfly received this invitation 


with pleafure ; indeed he had only pre- 
tended tobe going that he might obferve 
% if he was ftill of fo little confequence in 
the eyes of the Bee, as for him not to 
wifh his ftay. He therefore readily ac- 
cepted it, attended him home,, and had 
the pleafure of feeing him much better 
able to get up the wall than down it : and 
from this time a lading friendfliip com- 
menced between them, no lefs (ingular in 
its kind than in the caufeofif; for natu- 
rally thefe infects do notnotice the other. 
The Butterfly, after feeing his new 
friend fafely landed at his old refting- 
place, and with him a little (tore of the 
delicate food he had been rafting, mark- 
ed the place, and kindly promifed 
to fee him again the next morning, 
<f when," faid he, " I hope I (hall find 
you both able and willing to take a 
(hort flight with me," and then left him. 




CHAP. II. 

" Excuse me then if pride, conceit, 
" The manners of the fair, and great, 

* I give to monkeys, asses, dogs, 

** Fleas, owls, goats, butterflies, and hogs ; 

* 1 say that these are proud; what then f 
". I never said they equal men." 

GAY, 

THE Bee thus returned began to feel 
fonocthing like pleafure, and as the 
morning fun lighted the place in which 
be had been fo long a prifoner, his hopes 
revived that he fhould yet feel a greater 
"benefit from them. 

He had not room to move his wings 
freely, yet he thought them rather more 
pliable, and creeping upon the branch 
of the tree which /haded the entrance of 
Ms habitation, he endeavoured^ to 
cleanie them from the dirt and ftiflf- 
nefs which had incumbered thenr, 




and after repeatedly ftroking his 
back with the little brufhes with which 
Nature had fnpplied his feet, he fuc- 
ceeded, and was able to fly from his fta- 
tion to a neighbouring flower. 

He had not forgotten the Butterfly, 
but he did not fuppofe that he would 
remember him or his engagement of the 
preceding evening, but again he had to 
acknowledge the miftake of prejudice, 
for he had not been long upon the 
flower, ( made more fweet by his having 
found the ufe of his wings to obtain it,) 
before he faw his friend approaching, 
flying through the air* and never fixing 
till he had found 'the fpot on which he 
had left him. 

The loud humming of the Bee foon 
difcovered that he was not far ofl 
and the Butterfly haftening towards 
him, congratulated him on having found 



his liberty. tf You are taking your 
breakfafl/' faid he, " I give you joy of 
a fine morning/' and after the kindeft 
enquiries of how he now found himfelf, 
he exprefled his hope that he would be 
able to accompany him to a field of 
cowflips which he had patted at a little 
diftance ; " they fmell fo fweet, and look 
fo beautiful," continued he, " hanging 
down their yellow heads^ that though I 
certainly admire a greater variety of co- 
lours, I could not but be pleafed with 
thefe, and had I not wifiied for your 
company, could have flown from one to 
the other for fome time; I am fure one 
day's feafting on their fweets willreftore 
you to perfect health; come, ftiall I lead 
the way ?" 

" I cannot but be grateful for your 
folicitude," returned the Bee, <e and 
that you fliould fo f ar forget your na- 





ture as to be anxious for me who am 
of fo different an one; I am able t" fly- 
but very (lowly, if at all, and you will 
like to extend your rambles much far- 
ther than lean accompany you ; do not, 
therefore, think of tying y ourfelf to me/* 
The Butterfly was evidently (^appoint- 
ed ; " I know," faid he, f( that our na- 
tures are different; I am not held in fuch 
high eftimation asyourfelf, nor am I half 
fo ufeful, or my life fo long as yourY; 
' the creatures but of a day/ is what we 
are generally called, yet that day it is 
my wifli to fpend well, and as far as is 
in my power to be of benefit to another ; 
if it was to one meaner than myfelf it 
would be gratifying, but when I confi- 
der that it is to a Bee that my fervices 
are ufeful, it is doubly fo ; why then will 
you deny me this pleafure ?" 

The Bee could not but be ftruck 





with this fingular proof of friendfhip 
in one from whom he had not de- 
ferved it, and though he might be 
unwilling that any of his old compa- 
nions fhould fee him afibciating with 
one whom they were moftly inclined to 
treat with contempt, he could no longer 
refift his importunity, and therefore, 
promifed to accompany him to the place 
he had mentioned, and where he was 
amply recompenced by the delicious 
food he found there, for the fatiguing 
though fliort flight he had taken to pro- 
cure it, whilft the good-natured Butter- 
fly was equally gratified by feeing his 
friend enjoy the fragrance he had intro- 
duced him to. " You will flay here 
all day," faid he, <f and by night I ex- 
peel to fee you ftrong and hearty; if 
you pleafe, I will fly about a little, and 
perhaps (hall b able to bring you intel- 




Hgence of food for to-morrow, but pro- 
raife me to remain here till my return." 

f< Undoubtedly/' replied the Bee, 
half loft in one of the fweet recedes 
he was thus enjoying, " believe 
me I feel your kindnefs ! If you had 
notvifited me laft nigftt, and encouraged! 
my feeble efforts to move, I fhould have 
laid (till and died, and all thefe bounties 
of Nature would have been fpread in 
vain for me; indeed, I am obliged to 
you, and feel that though you may never 
be of fuch fervice to me again, I fhould 
be forry to lofe your acquaintance." 

This acknowledgement was fufficient 
for the Butterfly, who fluttered about in 
grateful joy, and in the courfe of the 
day made many excurfions, from all of 
which he returned with goodhumourand 
kind enquiries; while the Bee continued 
to fly from flower to flower, and though 





he was fometimes ready to regret that he 
had not a hive, to which he could carry 
the produce of his labours, and receive 
the commendations of his mother for fo 
doing, he felt that he was yet too weak 
to work to much advantage, and there- 
fore tried to be content with what was 
neceffary for himfelf. 

Several Bees came to this field of 
fweets, in which he was thus re veiling; 
but none of his old acquaintance were 
among them, and he forbore to fpeak to 
them; " though idle myfelf," faid he ; (f I 
will not make others fo by engaging" 
them in talk with me ;" and indeed fo 
anxious was he not to difgrace the cha- 
racter of what a Beejhouldbe, that if h 
thought any of them were noticing him, 
he would pretend to be ear"-.. at 
work alfo, led they mould 6 
an idle drone. 



In his next vifit, the Butterfly brought 
him fuch intelligence as he thought 
would be agreeable to him; tc We are 
in the -land of plenty," faid he, fi every 
thing is flourifhing, and innumerable 
flowers are every where to be feen." 

'-' I (hall foon be able to vifit them/' 
returned the Bee, (f and after one more 
night's reft I fhall almoft forget that J 
have been ill; I have already recovered 
my fpirits, and my health will foon re- 
turn." 

As they were thus talking, they ob- 
ferved a troop of children with bafkets 
in their hands, and an old man at their 
head, who feemed to be directing their 
fteps to the field they were in. 

" Thefe are fome of my tormentors," 
faid the butterfly, " though they appear 
to admire me, and to wifh me no harm, 
they are in reality my greateft enemies; 


even the found of their voices puts me 
in a fright: Oh ! how fick I am of 
hearing them finging, " Butterfly, but- 
terfly, come to me/' though you may 
be very fure I never accept their 
invitation; once I was (hut up in a box 
for nearly a whole day by one of 
thefe kind admirers, with a few green 
leaves for me to eat and fleep upon ; 
and I fuppofe (he thought fhe was doing 
me a very great favor to procure me fuch 
a refidence; but I was much more 
obliged to another little girl, who in her 
abfence let me out of my confinement, 
and fince that time I have been more 
than ever anxious to efcape their notice." 
<c I know nothing of an alarm of that 
fort," replied the Bee, " children are 
in general afraid of me, and I have Ibme- 
times been half inclined to regret it, 
though in reality I believe it is the beft 




thing that could happen, but thefe," 
continued he, " if I am not miitaken, 
are going to be otherwise employed 
than in admiring either you or me, for 
I think we fhail fee I hem gathering the 
flowers on which we have been feeding, 
and this was actually ihe cafe, for as they 
entered the h< ( 1, t',e old man encou- 
raged them in by prom ifing that 
when the v;in $ s made for which thefe 
cowflipswere . ., "leied, tj)eyfhould 
all have a glais of it 

" What devouring creatures are thefe 
men," obferved the Bee, ** every one 
of thefe fweet flowers will be deftroyed 
to make their wine ; but they are f the 
Lords of the Creation,' and take away 
at one liroke what would fatisfy us more 
moderate creatures for months and 
months ; but fee, the children are conning, 
had you not better take to your wings?'' 




" Not yet," replied the Butterfly, "they 
are going to be otherwife engaged ; 
Vs w^en they are idle, or at play, that I 
have molt reafon to be alarmed, and be- 
fides here are a great many more of my 
race frifking about, though among ever fo 
great a number, I am the moil admired." 

The Bee f mi led at thisdifcovery vf vani- 
ty in his friend, though he made no reply, 
and as the children began clearing the 
field at the other end of it, they conti- 
nued a little longer to enjoy the fweets 
they were fo foon to be deprived o till 
the (hades of the evening began to ad- 
vance, when the Bee propofed returning 
home, and bade a : ieu ! thofe charming 
flowers from which he had gathered 
health and ftrength, and a fufficient (tock 
of honey to take home with him. 

" Where do you repofe for the night ?" 
laid he to his friend, " have you no 


fettled place of abode, or do you reft 
upon the firii flower you meet with ?" 

" I generally pafs the night under a 
green leaf, or in the cup of a flower/' 
replied the Butterfly, " and nlay this eve- 
ning find a place to repofe in near your 
habitation, if you have no objection/* 

" I fhould be glad of your company 
within it," returned the Bee, '* were it 
large enough to admit us both, but what 
do you live upon ? cannot you tafte 
fome of the provifion I am going to 
carry home ? you fhallbe very welcome." 

The Butterfly teftified his thanks by 
a fluttering of his wings; " but I do not 
particularly relifh that food," faid he, 
" and you would perhaps wonder what 
it is we do eat, for it is no uncommon 
opinion that we live upon air; how- 
ever, in our reptile (late, we make up 
for our little eating now; were you to 





fee the deviation we make in the vege- 
table world, you would be furprifed; 
three or four dozen of us will deftroy a 
bed of cabbages in an hour or two, 
and we often ftrip a Ihrub of all its 
leaves in the courfe of a morning." 

" And do you boaft of this?" 
replied the Bee; " furely it is exulting 
in mifchief." 

; ' It is our native? returned the 
thoughtlefs Butterfly; t( and. what is 
the mifchief, as you call it, compared to 
that which men are daily doing? do 
they not deftroy us by thoufands, 
whenever they have an opportunity ? 
and why fhould^ow, of all others, plead 
for them, who, when you have fpent 
your lives in their fervice, and procured 
for them that food which they can ob- 
tain from no other quarter, burn and 
deftroy your hives and yourielves too ? 





Oh! I have patted one of ttiefe monu- 
ments of their ungrateful cruelty, and 
feen the mangled remains of your fel- 
low-creatures till my wings have quite 
trembled again, and yet you never do 
them harm; they form your habitation, 
and encourage^ r cu to build in them by 
pretending to fhelter you from all evil, 
yetafter all this fancied kindnefs, if they 
think you are too old to labour for them 
any longer, as a reward for all you have 
done, they fet fire to your houfes, and 
deftroy thoufands of you in the flames ! 
talk no more of mifchief in eating a few 
cabbages, or devouring the leaves of a 
tree." 

" Thefe are fhocking truths," re'- 
plied the Bee, " my blood runs cold 
to think of it, and yet fuch is my nature 
t!\at, though I know I am fafe from fuch 
de vaftations where I now am, I would 





rather add my labours to the common 
Hock of my native hive, could I but 
find the way to return to it, and fhare 
the fate of my fellow-labourers, if fuch 
a fate awaits them; but who knows that 
we may not efcape? it is not every Bee 
that is thus deftroyed." 

" Nature," returned his friend, " has 
armed you with a defenfive weapon 
with which I think you might foon re- 
pel your deftroyers: but as for us pocr 
Butterflies, we can do nothing to defend 
ourfelves." 

"Tis true," returned the Bee, <f we have 
this weapon, and we have often made 
our enemies fly by ufingit; but you 
muft know, fuch is their cunning cow- 
ardice, that they will not attack us on 
equal terms; they muft have the covert 
of the night for their cruel work, and 
when we are all in our hives, each enclof- 





ed in their waxen cell, they begin the 
horrid maflacre; I fhould feel it more, 
but that I believe they take as great de- 
light in deftroying each other as they do 
in killing us ; for I have heard them re- 
joicing together that fo many of the 
enemy were flain, and I know they mean 
their fellow men by tins appellation, 
for they don't dignify us with that title; 
their great enmity to infecls arifes from 
\vhat they deftroy ; and yet, in one day., 
they themfelves devour more than any 
. of them, but then they think every thing 
that can be ufeful to them was only 
made for that purpofe, and no one can 
fay they do not take care to make it ful- 
fill that end, whatever elfe is left un- 
done." 

" But the queftion is, whether they 
have any right to deltroy you, after that 
is done?" rejoined the Butterfly, 



Cf A queftion too hard for me to an- 
fwer/'returrtedthe Bee; "but this! know, 
that we have a right to defend ourfelves 
again (t them whenever we can ; and I 
know alfo, that for the kindnefs you 
have mown me I'll defend you from 
their attacks as long as I am able : but 
we are arrived at my dwelling, let us 
reft upon this tree while the fun is 
taking its laft peep at the horizon." 

After refrefhing themfelves with a . 
little of the honey the Bee had brought 
home, and of which the Butterfly juft 
tailed a little, becaufe he would not ap- 
pear to refufe what was kindly meant, 
they parted for thenight.theBee refolv- 
ing to travel farther the next day, and, 
if pofllble, to find out his old habitation, 
though not without afTuring the Butter- 
fly that if he mould be fo happy as to be 
re-admitted, it mould make no diffe- 
rence in his friendihip for him. 






CHAR IIL 

w And thus a never-ceasing pleasure flow*, 
" Or to the human, or the bestial race, 
" From those ideal charms wealiattach to place." 
LOCAL ATTACHMENT. 

TITR next morning oar two friends 
awoke with the fun, and before half my 
readers are out of their beds, their pere- 
grinations commenced, one in queft of 
whatever he could turn into fomething 
ufeful, the other to 6.nd what was new 
and entertaining. When they met, the 
Bee was (till defirous of finding his old 
habitation. ff But why ?" faid the Butter- 
fly, " furely the little cell you now live 
in will do very well for the fummer; 
you are in no danger where you are, 
and have the delightful privilege of 
calling it all your own." 

" All this is true," replied the Bee, 




" but what a life am I now leading? 
adding nothing to the general (tock ; 
while all my brethren are bufily em- 
ployed in gathering what will be of 
equal benefit to each, no, no . there is 
a pleafure in being thus mutually 
afiiflant to others which only thoie 
who have experienced it can know ; 
and I am refolved, if poffible, to enjoy it 
again." 

The Butterfly looked furprifed, for 
though capable of that attachment 
which proceeds from finding an agreeable 
companion ; and with (bme idea of the. 
fervices beftowed upon thofe we Iove 5 
and which endears the name of friend, 
he could not imagine that any pleafure 
could arife from fpending his time in 
labour ; but as long as his friend had 
aflured him of the continuance of his 
regard, he was defirous that he mould 






obtain what he wifhed, and willingly 
offered to affift him in the fearch. 

During their airy rounds they often 
flopped to refrefh themfelves on fome 
favorite flower, and though feldom fixing 
on the fame, and to a cafual obferver did 
not appear to be at all connected, they 
were never out of fight of each other. 
It was from one of thefe refting places, 
in which the Bee was delightfully em- 
ployed extracting fweets from an " ex- 
tended field of blofTomed beans," that 
the Butterfly flretched his wings to a 
neighbouring garden ; here fuch vari- 
ous beauties met his eyes that he could 
not help returning to call his friend to 
enjoy them with him. " Such a bed 
of tulips, I have met with," faid he, 
" whofe fplendid colours can only be 
equalled by my wings ; pray come, and 
fee what lovely flowers/' 



(( Have you not yet learnt that 
there is fomething more valuable in a 
flower than its colour?" returned the 
Bee,, with a f mile ; " for my part I 
would prefer thefe honeyed beans, 
though I fuppofe you would think 
them hardly worth looking at, but of 
all other flowers tulips have the lead 
fweetnefs about them, and are fit only 
to pleale the eye of thoie men and but- 
terflies who judge only by appearance; 
but though I have feen the formeradmir- 
ingabed of tulips, Ihave often obferved 
that if they wifti to ornament themfelves, 
or their houfes, the flowers which we 
chiefly prefer are alfo the objecls of 
their choice ! as for thefe beans, though 
I believe they admire their fmell, men 
are, as I faid before, fuch deftruclive 
creatures, that while they are enjoying 
what is fweet they are at the fame time 




deftroying it; and as they expecl fome- 
thing {till more valuable from thefe 
flowers, they are content to let them re- 
main upon their ftalks; but we can have 
our fill of their fweets, and yet not injure 
what they will hereafter produce. Oh ! 
had I but a hive to go to/' continued he, 
as he ftretched his wings to accompany 
his friend, " how many times mould I 
have gone thither yefterday, and to-day 
from the cowflips and the beans, and 
what repeated loads mould I have car- 
ried home." 

" Surely, furely," thought the idle 
Butterfly, " you need not regret that ; 
to fly hither and thither as you like, 
with no incumbrance of any kind, and, 
nocare beyond to-morrow, is far better; 1 ' 
fo thought the Butterfly, and fo perhaps 
think many Butterflies of the human 
race; but he forbore to repeat his 





fentiments on this fubjeft, for, uncon- 
fcious to himfelf, he was awed by the 
fnperiority of his friend/ while he 
felt no wifh to be of tlie fame opinion. 
f: And fo tlaefe 3re the flower* von 
admire/' continues the Bee. as tiiey 
alighted, " and which can only be 
equalled in Beauty bv nonr wings? 
Ah, my dear friend, would not vour wings 
be juft asufefr' :; tu -y itfeffC or cover- 
ed with red and purple? look at the 
plain white ones of nuir' our 

race., who are now flying around us; you 
cannot extend your flight farther than 
fhefe; but fee, fome children are enter- 
ing the garden, I queicioa if you will 
not foon jiave a greater cauie to regret 
the beauty of your wings than to admire 
it, and that you will be the objeci of 
their purfuit as foon as you meet their 



eyes, while your plainer brethren will 
pafs unregarded." 

This prediction was foori verified, for 
no fooner did the littles ones perceive 
this felf-admiring Butterfly than they 
all exclaimed, " Oh ! what a beauty ! 
let us catch it." 

cs If you get on that fide of the bed, 
and / on this," faid a boy, who appeared 
lo be the eldeft of the party, " I will 
throw my hat at it, and we (hall foon 
have it in our pofTeffion." 

" Not for the world, mafter Henry," 
faid the maid, who accompanied them; 
" you would deftroy thofe beautiful 
flowers at once if you did, and your 
papa would be fo angry." 

" The flowers then are more admired 
than you are my friend," obferved the 
Bee, et for you fee the maid will not 
let the m be injured, not even to procure 





a fight of your dill more beautiful 
wings." 

" Don't laugh at me," replied the 
Butterfly, fomewhat mortified; " I am 
glad, however, that I have found a 
place of fafety; if I take care not to 
quit this ftation, they will not be able 
to get at me." 

Altho' it was his intention to remain 
there, his young purfuers would not 
let him be at reft, but with one thing 
and another lo contrived to fhake the 
flowers upon which he fettled, that, at 
laft, wearied out with thefe repeated 
removals, he took to his wings, and 
flew to a neighbouring rofe-tree. 

" Now, now," cried all the children, 
we fhall have it ; don't let it get upon 
the tulips again, and we fhall certainly 
catch it." 

The Bee lay all this time in the 




bell of a hyacinth, not unmindful of his 
friend, or his purfuers, but thinking his 
prefent alarm might be an ufeful evi- 
dence of what he had been faying, and 
a check to his vanity, he refolved to let 
him feel a little more of the dangerous 

o 

effe6t his much-admired beautv was 
likely to produce ; but after the young 
folk had given him one or two hafty 
flights round die garden, he came for- 
ward, and appearing in front of all the 
young ones, foon checked the eagernefs 
of their chace. 

" A Bee, a bee," exclaimed they, 
" take care, or it will fting you," while 
the poor trembling Butterfly began 
to take frefh courage on feeing his 
friend approach ; and, feating himfelf 
oa the branch of an honey-fuckle, 
endeavoured to regain his breath. 

The oldeft boy was now refolved to 





make one more etlbrt, and creeping 
fiowly to the place, put forth his hand 
to reach the prize, when the Bee. 
perceiving his intention, again darted 
before his eyes, and made him retreat. 
" Thank you, thank you, my dear 
friend/' Paid the poor Butterfly, ff fure- 
ly they will not attempt to purfue me 
any more; you muft have fufficiently 
frightened them." 

" I'll do fomething more than fright- 
en them if they do," replied the Bee; 
" they (hall feel what it is to enrage 
one of us ;" nor would thefe children, 
animated by the prefence of each 
other, give up their chace, till the 
Bee had abfolutely fulfilled his threat, 
by juft touching the hand of one of 
them with his (harp fting: and Oh! 
what a clamour was infiantly raifed by 
the whole party for this cruel a6l, as it 



was called ; the child cried, and the 
maid declared it was a lhame of the naf- 
ty Bee to fling one who never thought 
of hurting Mm :" while all the others 
gathered round their wounded brother 
to exprefs their pity and abhorrence 
of the deed; and while they retired from 
the garden to get fomething to alle- 
viate the frnart, our two friends were 
left to recover themfelves and congra- 
tulate each other on theirfafety. I ne- 
ver was fo near being taken in my life, 
and efcaped at laft," faid the Butterfly; 
cc but to you, my friend, I am indebted 
for my prefent liberty ; if you had not 
exerted yourfelf in my behalf I muft 
have been in their poffefiion; I tremble 
at the thought of it, and am complete- 
ly tired out in the chace they have 
given me." 

" Now, then, I hope you will acknow- 




ledge that your beauty is no real ad- 
vantage to you/' replied the Bee, 
" but till you are recovered I will vifit 
yonder beautiful acafia which feems 
to court my notice; befides, I am not 
without a hope that from it I fhall fee 
my ardently defired home ; I feem to 
remember its being near it." 

Our airy traveller fpoke this with 
peculiar animation, but on reaching 
the tree, his pleafure was ftill higher, 
for, from thence, he beheld the fpot 
he was in purfuit of; although many 
hives were near it, he could diftin- 
guifh his own from all the reft by 
a thoufand little marks known only to 
thofe who inhabit it. His heart beat 
with tranfport; it appeared to him 
the abode of peace and plenty, and 
it was within his reach alfo; the 
flowers on which he had refted was 




entirely di (regarded, and he flood 
gazing on the well known fpor, " flung 
with the thoughts of home." 

The endearments of his mother 
returned to his mind with double 
force, nor could he fear being well 
received by her, and if by her, all the 
reft he knew dared not ufe him diffe- 
rently; " I will acknowledge my difobe- 
dience to her commands/' faid he, 
ff and when fhe knows what I have 
gone through fhe will forgive me ; I 
fhall again receive her commenda- 
tions, and repofe my felf under her mild 
and equitable government/' 

With thefe thoughts he could fcarcely 
forbear flying away, and rufhing at 
once into the prefence of his friends; 
but lie recollected the poor Butterfly, 
and though there was nothing in 
their natures which could aflimilate. 





he ftill remembered that in a great 
meafure he owed his prefent health 
and ftrength to him; " when firft we 
met/ 1 continued he, " there was no- 
thing in me to induce his affection; 
I was poor, fick, and helplefs, and yet 
he was interefted for me, and (hall I 
leave him now ? no, I will return and 
tell him what I have feen, and that 
though for the future I mall refide 
with more fuitable afibciates, we may 
ftill often meet." 

Thus determined, he haftened back, 
with all the livelinefs of joy, to in- 
form his friend, who obferved his 
coming, and the cheerful air with 
which he approached; " I have feen 
my hive/' cried the Bee, without giv- 
ing him time to make the enquiry, 
" I have feen it ! come, won't you go 
with me, and at lead fee the place to 




which I am going to return, and though 
I cannot afk you to enter with me, (none 
but bees being permitted to come in 
there) I fhall never fee you when I am 
out of it without pleafure." 

ec My dear friend/' replied the 
Butterfly, <e after the kindnefs you have 
(hewn me this morning, it would be 
ungrateful not to rejoice in what 
gives you pleafure; I think I am now 
able to ufe my wings again, and will 
readily accompany you ; and though I 
know I muft ftand at an humble dif- 
tance while you enter, yet I (hall be 
anxious to hear how you are receiv- 
ed, and whether your old companions 
will forgive your leaving them." 

" I have but the difpleafure of one to 
fear/' replied the Bee, " and if fhe 
forgives me, the reft have nothing to do 
\vith it, nor have I much to apprehend 



from that quarter, fince the authority 
of a fovereign is tempered by the affec- 
tion of a parent." 

Thus converting they purfued their 
flight till arriving at a ihort diftance 
from the well-known hive, " Don't 
you fee it?" faid the Bee, fluttering 
his wings for joy; " don't you be- 
hold the welcome fpot?" 

" I fee a number of hives," return- 
ed the Butterfly, not quite ib enrap- 
tured as his friend, " but which is 
yours I cannot tell." 

" Mark the one into which I fly," faid 
the Bee, ff and then you'll know it." 

" But when fhall I fee you again ?" 
enquired the Butterfly in a melancholy 
tone, on feeing his friend preparing for 
flight; " to-day?" 

<e Perhaps not," replied the other; 
fe I may not be permitted to come 




out again, or I may be indulged with 
a day's reft, and converfation with ray 
mother, but do not fuflfer yourfelf to 
doubt my friendfhip for you, becaufe 
I do not fly out every hour and re- 
peat my profeffions of it ; to-morrow, 
at fartheit, I fhall renew my labours for 
the general good, and then if you like 
to accompany me in my flights, I mall 
be glad of your company." 

With thefe words he firetched his 
wings, while the Butterfly bade him 
farewell, and watching his approach 
and entrance to the hive, refolved to 
hover round the place in hopes of 
learning what reception he had met 
with. 

As the returning vagrant advanced 
towards the centre of all his hopes and 
fears, he felt the latter fenfibly encreafe, 
yet he could not but advance ; at firft 




he fettled on the block upon which the 
hive was placed, every part of which 
was perfect in his recollection > he ob- 
ferved no one near, for as it was now 
the middle of the day, almoft all were 
out, bufily employed, except a few, 
whom he knew were always on the 
watch to keep out every intruder; at 
length he ventured within the hive, and 
immediately all the humming inmates 
which were then at home flocked around 
him; fome concluded that he had mifla- 
ken his hive, while others imagined 
they could recollect his form and figure. 
" Do you not know me?" faid he, " I 
once belonged to your fraternity, and 
my heart is ftill knit towards you/' 

On hearing an unufual murmur the 

mother queen appeared, with all her 

attendant train, to enquire who the 

bold intruder was? The way was 



cleared for her approach, and a 
folemn lilence prevailed, while the 
ftranger, with unfeigned humility, an- 
fwered to the queftion. No fooner 
did her majelly know her returning 
child, than in one loud hum fhe ex- 
prelTed her fatisfaclion, and this was 
heard and attended to by all around, and 
prefently the general voice was that 
he mould be re-admitted. 

" I am not returned unto you 
fick, or unable to work," replied the 
delighted Bee, after he had expreff- 
ed his thanks for their generous re- 
ception of him ; and then related to 
his attentive and fympathyzing pa- 
rent all he had gone through fince 
he had fo rafhly left the hive, whilft 
the reft waited till the clofe of the 
day before they indulged their curio- 
fity by hearing it, nor did he forget 





to acknowledge that it was to the 
attention of a Butterfly that he owed 
his life. 

"A Butterfly/' returned the queen, 
whofe dignity felt hurt that any 
of her race fhould be indebted to 
fo trifling a creature, " fure you rnuft 
have been funk very low indeed,, to 
need the afliftance of a Butterfly." 

" I have learnt, my dear mother/' 
replied the young one, " that there 
is no creature., however mean, but may 
be of fervice fome time or other; the 
Butterfly is well aware of the great diffe- 
rence there is between us/' 

ft And fenfible, 1 hope, of the ho- 
nour done him, in being permitted 
to affift a Bee?" rejoined the mother. 

This important affair being fettled, 
though not entirely to the fatisfaclion 
of the queen, who while fhe forbore 





to fay more upon the fubjecl, refolved 
narrowly to watch the conduct of her 
fon, fearing he would gain too much 
of the frivolity of the Butterfly if he 
long affociated with him : and after 
Ihewing him a cell in which he might 
for the future refide, me left him to 
prepare it for his reception. 





CHAP. IV. 

" Think not that treachery can be just; 
" Take not informers' words on trust." 

GAY. 

As the winged inhabitants flocked 
towards home, laden with their honey- 
ed ftore, the return of the wanderer was 
announced to each; and the labors of 
the day being ended, they all gathered 
round him to hear the account of his 
adventures. 

In the mean time the Butterfly con- 
tinued without the hive, not unplea- 
fantly fituated, as a number of flowers 
were about the place, had he not been 
yet in fufpenfe refpefting his friend,, 
when, as he was juft going to give up 
all hopes of meeting with him till the 
next morning, he had the pleafure of 
feeing him come out upon the block, in 




company with two or three other Bees. 
" Will he fpeak to me now, that theft 
are with him," thought the Butterfly, 
and he fluttered round the place, half 
afraid that he ihould find the promifes 
of his friend forgotten; but not fo, the 
Bee,, (though perhaps he might feel a 
little at the opinion he judged would 
be formed by his prefent affociates on 
feeing him fpeaking familiarly to one 
fo much beneath them,) flew towards 
him, to tell him he had been well re- 
ceived, directing him to a place of fafe- 
ty in which he might pals the night ; 
" to-morrow," faid he, " we fhall meet 
again." 

The Butterfly was much pleated at 
this unexpected interview, and after 
thanking him for his attention, promif- 
ed to join him in the morning. The 
Bee then returned to his companions. 




and the Butterfly retired to the place 
which had been pointed out to him, 
and from whence he could fee the en- 
trance of the hive, and watch the com- 
ing of his friend when they were next 
to meet. 

I (hall now proceed to acquaint my 
reader with the future travels of our 
two friends, and without attending to 
the minute occurrences of each day, 
enter at once upon thofe events which 
more particularly belong to my defign. 
As foon as the fun was fufficientl} above 
the earth, the inhabitants of the hive 
haftened forth, eager to purfue their 
daily talk 

" Around, ath\vart, 

" Thro' the soft air the busy nations fly." 

And among the firft came our young 
adventurer, whom the Butterfly imme- 
diately prepared to accompany; though 




till he faw him a little feparated from 
the others, he did not prefume to ap- 
proach. a How do you do, my friend?" 
faid the Bee, as foon as he drew near; 
" are you inclined for a long flight to- 
day ? I have now a double motive to 
work hard, having a wifh to make up 
for my loft time, as well as to fhew my 
fenfe of gratitude for the reception I 
have met with from the friends I am re- 
turned to." 

ei 1 am willing to accompany you/* 
replied the Butterfly, '*' and am glad to 
fee you in fuch fpirits; but you are 
already eyeing fome of thofe beautiful 
flowers, and while you are engaged with 
them I will vifit the neareft cottage, 
and return before you have rimmed 
your talk." 

(e That's right," replied the Bee, 
" and tell me if you find the inhabi- 




tants as well, or as bufily employed, as 
I am going to be." 

The Butterfly departed, and on en- 
tering the window of the humble 
dwelling, he perceived a woman fweep- 
ing out the lower room,, " which 
ferved them for parlour, kitchen, and 
hall," and preparing the breakfaft ; 
three or four children were entrufted 
to the care of another fomewhat 
older than themfelves, and who was 
endeavouring to keep the little ones 
from entering, and interrupting their 
mother. The Butterfly was unnoticed 
by the woman, but no fooner did the 
children fee it, who (like all others, 
wanting what is denied them,) were 
peeping in at the door and enquiring 
when they might come in, than a little 
boy begged to enter, promising to catch 
it in a minute, and his entreaties at laft 





prevailed, though he did not find it 
quite fo eafy to take the nimble crea- 
ture as he had fancied. He had again 
and again to watch its fettling, and to 
experience difappointment in his en- 
deavour to fecure it; while the reft of 
the little ones were at the door eagerly 
looking on, and the mother fometimes 
fretting,, and fometimes laughing at his 
fruitlefs efforts; when all at once the 
eldeft girl gave notice of her father's 
approach to breakfaft. 

No fooner was this intelligence 
heard, than the Butterfly was fuffer- 
ed to reft in quiet ; the mother declar- 
ed that (C nothing was ready ;" fhe 
fcolded the child and blamed herfelf 
for being fo foolifh as to be flopped 
in the middle of her work by the 
chacing of a Butterfly, and before any 
*hing was in proper order the maf- 





ter entered, who by his rough voice and 
peremptory manner feemed determined 
to keep up the authority of that title. 
While he was grumbling at not finding 
his breakfaft ready,, and his children 
(landing filent around the table, the 
Butterfly, happy to efcape, extended 
his wings, and returned to his compa- 
nion, whom he found ftill employed at 
his accuftomed tafk. 

" Well, what difcoveries have you 
made/' enquired the Bee, " have you 
feen any one fo bufy as me ?" 

ct One was/' replied the Butterfly, 
laughing, " till I put an end to her 
work; a little humoured brat of a boy 
was fuftered to enter into the midft 
of it, and hunt me from one fide of 
the reom to the other, and this foolifh 
purfuant took the attention of the WO-T 
man, who flood with the broom in her 


hand, admiring the dexterity of her 
aukward cub, I fuppofe, till the ap- 
proach of the father was announced; 
then the fcene was entirely changed, 
the hunt was given over, and fhe was 
crofs with herfelf and every one elfe 
becaufe (he had been interrupted, 
which after all was her own fault ; the 
man came in (till more out of humour, 
and thus the houfe which at your firft 
entrance you might have imagined the 
abode of peace and domefiic comfort, 
was made direclly otherwife; and my 
harmlefs vifit, I dare fay, they would fay 
was the caufe of it; when to a reafon- 
able obferver it would be plain that the 
whole of his difturbance arofe from the 
wayward fancy of the child, the indul- 
gence of the mother, and the ill temper 
of the father : however, fuch is my hap- 
py lot, having wings, 1 could fly away 





from all their troubles, but thofe are to 
be pitied who cannot efcape them." 

" During your abfence," faid the Bee, 
" I have feen two friends in this gar- 
don, who appeared fo happy in thefocie- 
ty of each other that I am anxious to 
fee more of them, fuch friendfhip being 
rather rare among the human race, 
and as foon as I have carried home this 
load of honey, I intend to vifit the houfe 
I faw them enter." 

" Do, do/' replied the Butterfly, 
pleafed to find his friend could attend 
to any thing befides his work, ec and 
while you are thus engaged, I will 
amufe myfelf with an old acquain- 
tance or two whom I fee yonder." 
With thefe words they parted for a little 
while, promifing to meet again in the 
fame place, and to which the Bee re- 
turned long before the fluttering But- 


terfly, who had flown to a neighbouring 
field, and there among the daifies and 
king-cups with which the ground was 
nearly covered,, he continued with his 
former afibciates nearly the whol e 
morning,, idly chacing each other in 
airy rounds till he had almoft forgot the 
engagement he had made, and was flill 
lefs inclined to regret his living an idle 
life. " I am not born to work," faid he, 
<e and if the place I fill in the world is 
not of fuch importance as my friends, 
as a Butterfly I have an equal right to 
live, and to follow my own inclination j" 
he therefore returned to meet him with- 
out an apology for being behind the 
time, and on finding him bufily em- 
ployed, and nearly ready to take home 
another load, <c what," faid he, " you 
could not leave your favorite work to 
make your intended vifit ? furely you 




are too intent in gathering that food 
which I fear you will never be allowed 
to enjoy ?" 

" You are miitaken," replied the 
Bee, " I have been, and feen the two 
ladies, but they are no longer friends^ 
Oh what fickle creatures thefe men 
and women are ! young and old, they 
are all changeable alike. One was 
fitting at an open window, and the 
other walking up and down the room 
apparently much diftreffed; u whatnot 
one word ?" faid me to the other; " I did 
not mean to offend you/' 

No anfwer was returned, and me 
continued to exprefs her forrow, 
which was received with the utmoft 
indifference; at length fhe made ano- 
ther attempt, and offering her hand 
to her offended friend, Ihe faid, 
*" f Come, -Charlottr, will you not be re- 
conciled ?" 




This alfo was equally di (regarded, 
and the feelings of the poor offender 
feemed entirely altered; fhe no lon- 
ger folicited forgivenefs, but left the 
room, faying, " It is not neceffary for 
me to acknowledge more ; you do not 
treat me like a friend; talk no more of 
your regard for me." 

As foon as fhe was gone the other 
began Tinging, as loudly as fhe could 
raife her voice, though the words fhe 
uttered now, fo far from being in 
unifon with her mind, as exprefTed in 
her countenance, that I could not help 
fmiling; they were defcriptive of con- 
tent and felf-fatisfaclion, neither of 
which I think Jlie could at that time 
feel. 

' On leaving her, and entering ano- 
ther window, I was forry to fee the 
oiae I had been interetted for in 
earneltconverfation with a third perlbn, 




, pitying her dejecled and melan- 
choly appearance, afked if fhe might not 
attribute it to the ill humour of her 
friend, and while her mind was thus hurt 
with the treatment fhe had received, 
drew from her a complaint which per- 
haps fhe would not have made at any 
other time. et She does not deferve 
your regard," faid the ftranger, " and 
you give up too much to her; if you 
continue to do fo, fhe will by and bye 
expect you to fay or do nothing but a s 
fhe direcls; and her friendfhip for you 
can never be real if fhe requires fuch 
fubjeclion." 

" Thefe are very odd things," 
obferved the Butterfly ; cf we poor 
infignificant creatures never have any 
thing of this fort; if we aflbciate toge- 
ther, we do not fpend our time in 
complaining of each other." 



" 1 have not done with them yet," 
returned the Bee, " but mean to pay 
them another vifit, and I fancy lhall 
fee flill more reafon to conclude 
that thefe wonderful creatures,, whom 
the animal race hold in fuch refpecl, 
are not fo fteady and conftant in their 
conduct and purfuits as either they, 
or we, the (till meaner infect tribes, 
are, though I muft fay thofe of the 
latter order are not in fo much awe 
of' them. We do not fly from them 
if they come in our way, but in many 
things confider them as furfervient to 
us, and that which they look upon as ex- 
clufively their own, and which a cat or 
a dog would not venture to touch, we 
have mod likely made many a meal 
from before it comes to their table." 

A few days after this, the Bee renew- 
ed his vifit, as he had propoied, and 




there was aftonifhed to fee the very fame 
third perfon now engaged with the 
other lady, and relating to her with 
many exaggerations all that her offend- 
ing friend had repeated to her, while 
fmarting under the efFecl of her ill hu- 
mour, though all the pains fhe took to 
draw it out of her, and the encourage- 
ment with which me liftened to her com- 
plaint, were entirely omitted in the re- 
cital. " Only think of this/' faid the 
Butterfly, on hearing an account of his 
friend s fecond vifit. " Is this the ufe 
they make of the power of fpeech, 
and which they imagine fets them fo 
completely above the animals? furely 
they had better be without it, than ufe 
it to fuch a purpofe ; but what will be 
the end of this? will not the eyes of the 
two friends be opened, think you ? and 
they will leave the acquaintance of that 




mean incendiary, who, under fuch a 
Ihow of friendfhip, endeavours to widen 
the breach between them ?" 

" Perhaps not/' replied the Bee, 
" Their conducl may yet want that con- 
iiftency ; I hope they will be reconciled 
to each other, but I doubt whether they 
will give up this perfidious acquain- 
tance, though the more their regard 
for each other increafes, the more muft 
their contempt for her be increafed. I 
queftion. alfo, if the tdejhe has this day 
told will not rankle in the breaft of the 
hearer for many future years,, and whe- 
ther there will ever again be that mutu- 
al confidence in the two friends which 
once appeared." 

The next houfe they faw, the Butter- 
fly entered alone, as the Bee obferved 
lome flowers at a diftance which ap- 
peared more worthy of his attention. 




While he was busily employed in ex- 
tragting their sweets,, his friend return- 
ed laughing, ' ' Oh ! said he, 1 wish you 
had been with me. Smile no more at 
the regard I shew to outward appear- 
ance; why there is a young man who is 
storming and raging about the house, 
because his neckcloths and shirts are not 
brought home so nicely as he expeded, 
and he is throwing them from one end 
of the room to the other, while the poor 
woman, who has, perhaps, been working 
hard to make them what they are, 
stands trembling before him, as if she 
had committed the greatest trespass in 
the world. The beauty of my wings^ 
if once destroyed, is lost for ever, but 
these evils, if they are any, are soon 
remedied ; and, at the next house/' 
continued he, <e is another instance of 
the vanity of the sex; there is a boy who 





has got a new coat just brought home 
from the taylor's, and because the day 
is rather lowering, and his father won't 
let him wear it out, he is determined 
not to go out at all, and he is now sit- 
ting in his own room with the coat on, 
though there is no one but himself to 
admire it. I have seen females carry 
their fondness for dress as far as this/* 
continued he, " but I thought men 
and boys were above such vanity; I 
declare I am half ashamed of them." 

At this moment a heavy shower came 
on, and the Butterfly hastened to the shel- 
ter of a large leaf on a cucumber bed, 
where also the Bee was obliged to se- 
cure himself, nor could he take home 
the honey he had gathered till the rain 
had ceased. 

On his return, he found the Butterfly just 
ventured from his retreat, and stretch- 
ing his wings, he was enquiring of 





one of his own species, " if their qo. 
lours had received any injury ?" 

The Bee heard the enquiry, and 
though he believed his friend would not 
have made it had he thought him 
within hearing, he was not now so in- 
clined to laugh at him as formerly on 
account of it, fe for/' said he, " since 
I have heard such instances of vanity in 
a race so superior, I can forgive it in a 
Butterfly/' 

Qn finding that the drops still con- 
tinued on the flowers, so as to prevent 
his gathering any thing from them, 
he determined to return to the hive, 
and there assist in forming some cells 
with the wax he had been busy in 
procuring, though the Butterfly was 
earnest in desiring him to take an after- 
noon's flight with him, (f and enjoy a 
little pleasure/' 



The Bee smiled at what his friend 
called by that name; <c my enjoyment 
is to be usefully employed/' said he, 
tf and to receive my mother's approba- 
tion; but as I know this is a plea- 
sure you cannot understand, I would 
not wish to deprive you of what you 
can enjoy ; go, therefore, and take 
your fill of it while you may, and to- 
morrow perhaps we may meet again. 31 

His friend departed with this en- 
couragement, yet not able to compre- 
hend why all creatures did not find a 
pleasure in the same thing, though to 
the eye of reason such a distinction of 
enjoyments in the various objects of 
creation, is an evident token of the 
Wisdom with which they are formed, 





CHAP. V. 

" If chance a mouse came in her sight, 
" She finely counterfeits a fright, 
" So sweetly screams if it come near her, 
" It ravishes all hearts to hear her. J> 

SWIFT. 

THE next day the Bee had taken 
home two or three loads before his 
friend made his appearance, who, when 
he came, expressed his surprise at find- 
ing him where he was. " 1 have been 
in such a beautiful conservatory/' said 
he, " and surely I saw you there, al- 
most buried in the heart of a flower; 
and so intent were you upon your la- 
bour, that you would not even answer 
me when I called; there must certainly 
have been something very attractive to 
have kept you there so long, but how 
you got here before me is what I most 
wonder at." 



" I don't understand you," returned 
the Bee, " I have been in no conserva- 
tory, the utmost of my flights to-day have 
been from the hive to this place." 

" And have you really been no 
\vhere else ?" said the Butterfly in asto- 
nishment; <c why I never saw anything 
$o like you in my life; I concluded 
that you were so buried in the flower 
that you did not hear my call, or was 
unwilling to- move, lest you should 
plarm some ladies and gentlemen who 
were very near you," 

" I think I can tell what has deceiv- 
ed you," returned the Bee, fl you have 
seen a Bee-Orchis, as they are called, a 
flower .which bears both the form a~nd 
resemblance of our species. And so 
you really took it for me ?" 

'" If it was not yourself," replied 
the Butterfly, Cf and you wish to see 
your own likeness, pray come with me, 





and behold it; for never did I see one 
Bee so like another, as that flower is 
like you." 

" I have known many of our young 
ones who are not acquainted with it, 
said the Bee, tf so deceived by the re- 
semblance, that if they happen to meet 
with one, they pass it by, thinking, that 
one of their fellow-laborers is engaged 
there already ; but if you will fhew me 
the spot I will not be so put off." 

So saying, he followed the Butterfly, 
who was immediately on the wing; and 
soon arrived at a very large house, one 
end of which formed the conservatory. 
The fragrancy of the flowers it contain- 
ed, the great variety of them, and those 
of the most delicate nature, made the 
Bee clap his wings for joy. 

" Why, my dear friend," said he, 
" you have brought me to a treasure, 
house indeed; a store of sweets, I can 





hardly forbear returning to call all my 
companions to share it with me ; I am 
sure there would be work enough for 
the whole hive were they here." 

While he was thusexpressinghisdelight., 
the Butterfly was searching for the flower 
he had noticed before,, hardly satisfied* 
till he had the testimony of his own eye- 
sight in seeing them together, that his 
friend had told him the truth; however^ 
when he discovered it, and saw the Bee 
still flying about in admiration, he wa s 
obliged to acknowledge he had been 
wrong. 

The Bee employed himself here for 
some hours, during which he had gone and 
returned from the hive several times, 
bringing with him a few of his compa- 
nions, who were attracted by the account 
he gave of this charming place; the 
Butterfly also met with much to amuse 
him, and continued uninterruptedly to 





enjoy themselves, till, as the evening 
advanced, they resolved to visit some 
other part of the house, and the But- 
terfly led the way to the dining parlour, 
where some ladies and gentlemen were 
sitting after dinner, with a variety of 
fruits and wines before them. The at- 
tention of the Bee was immediately 
attracted by a very fine peach one of 
the ladies had just taken on her plate, 
and little thinking of the consequence 
of his temerity, he flew towards it : the 
lady screamed, and pushed back her 
chair, while the company eagerly en- 
quired the cause* 

" Oh, a Bee !" exclaimed she, '< I 
am frightened to death if I see one." 

" And I," said another, who sat op- 
posite to her, (e shall faint, if it comes 
near me; I really cannot bear it in the 
room." 

At this moment the Beei as if de^ 





sirous of seeing whether she spoke 
truth or not, flew directly across the ta- 
ble, and alighted on her head. 

" Oh where is it ?" said she, jumping 
off her seat, " I am sure it is on me ! 
dear Mr. Wippersnap," addressing the 
gentleman who sat next her, " for 
goodness sake take it off! what shall I 
do ?" 

While the other lady sat fanning to 
recover her alarm, and the rest of 
the party with anxious looks watched 
the motions of the bold intruder, the 
gentleman, proud of his superior cou- 
rage, " begged them not to be alarmed, 
for he would destroy it in a moment;" 
and giving it a gentle touch to drive it 
from its present station, he began the 
attack with an open knife he held in his 
hand, professing that he would cut it 
asunder at one blow; his blows, however, 
were not so decisive, for though he 





aimed several, the Bee contrived to es- 
cape them all. 

At this one or two other gentlemen, 
with more regard to the imaginary feel- 
ings of the ladies than to the reality of 
those belonging to the Bee, raised the 
same weapons in their defence, but all 
their efforts served only to exasperate 
the object of their rage, while the But- 
terfly sat trembling under the most cruel 
apprehensions for his friend's safety. 

During this alarming battle the ladies 
were happy to leave the room ; and no 
sooner were they retired than the fight 
was over, he weapons of war were laid 
aside, and the enraged Bee suffered to 
rest upon the table, and recruit his 
strength : his fierce opponents declared 
they were never so foiled before, till 
one, less courageous than the rest, wise- 
ly, as he thought^ turned an empty wine 




glass over him, and thus was* our unfor- 
tunate adventurer again in a close con- 
finement. The Butterfly was now 
alarmed for his friend from another 
cause, and feared the want of air would 
be too much for him. 

" Cruel monsters/' said he to himself, 
as he observed the gentlemen draw 
their chairs closer to the table, and fill- 
ing their glasses appeared determined 
to suffer no other interruption to their 
cheerfulness; " do they call themselves 
humane, who can leave a poor creature 
in that situation, and after they have cut 
and slashed at him in such a manner, 
that if their dexterity had been equal to 
their will, they would not have left a 
whole bone in his skin. Oh ! that I 
had the sting of a thousand Bees, 1 
would use them all to revenge his cause." 

With these words he fluttered round the 




table, and viewed his friend (who lay 
motionless at the bottom of his transpa- 
rent prison ) on every side; " he will 
certainly die," thought he, " if he is 
not dead already. Oh my friend ! \\ould 
that I could release you ! but the at- 
tempt would be fruitless." 

The gentlemen were too agreeably- 
engaged to observe the anxious Butter- 
fly,, who every time he saw them ex" 
tend their hands towards the place, ho- 
ped some little compassion had touch- 
ed their breasts, and that they were 
going to liberate his friend; but no 
tuch thing, the evening closed in, 
and he was ^et in confinement, till 
the tea being announced, the gentle- 
men jumped up to attend the ladies, 
and soon after the servants entering- 
to take away the bottle and glasses, 
give the poor prisoner an opportu- 





nity to escape. The window was still 
open, upon the edge of which sat the 
expecting Butterfly, but it was some 
time before the Bee, who had been in- 
sensible the greatest part of the time, 
could so far recollect himself as to know 
where he was, or who was waiting for him, 
On seeing him slowly crawling on the 
table, the Butterfly concluded he was too 
much hurt to fly, and coming towards 
him, with the utmost tenderness he said, 

fe Oh ! my friend, are you not cruel- 
ly wounded ?" 

" Not so much as I expected,'* re- 
turned the Bee, greatly revived at the 
sight of his old companion. " I am 
very stiff from the blows I have received, 
but luckily my wings are not hurt: 
pray lead the way from this detested 
spot, and I will follow with the greatest 
pleasure." 





With this request the Butterfly 
gladly complied, rejoicing to hear his 
friend speak so cheerfully, who was 
no sooner out of the house than he beg- 
ged to rest upon a neighbouring tree. 

" You have been very roughly 
handled/' said his friend, " by these 
superior sort of people; I had hoped 
better things of them 3 because they are 
called so,, but I do not find their hearts 
are better, or their conduct towards us 
less reprehensible than those of a lower 
order; but why did you not use your 
sting, my friend ? 1 think it then would 
have made even those courageous gen- 
tlemen sound a retreat." 

" I am very careful of extending 
that/' replied the Bee, " as it is very 
seldom we can use it to any advantage 
without leaving it in the wound, and 
that in general is fatal to us ; a gentle 
touch is sufficient in our defence, 





but here it would have had no effect 
but to enrage them still the more, and 
I must either have died by their hands, 
or soon afterwards by losing it; but what 
a fuss the ladies made at my approach, 
did they not ? did you ever see any thing 
so foolish, as all to run away from my 
presence? Why many of their fellow- 
creatures, whom they judge inferior in 
education and ideas to themselves, 
would have been ashamed to have act- 
ed so/' 

(S If you are inclined to put them to 
flight again/' said the Butterfly, <( I 
think I see the same party in the room 
above." 

tf No, I thank you/ 1 returned the 
Bee, " I must hasten to the hive as fast 
as my bruises will let me ; they will be 
quite alarmed at my being out so late, 
or feucy that my old fondness for wan* 





dering is come on again, and I should 
be sorry that should be their opinion; 
besides/' continued he, shrugging his 
shoulders, " I have had enough of the 
company of ladies and gentlemen for 
to-day, though no doubt I lost much 
entertaining conversation during my 
captivity." 

" I believe not/' replied the Butter- 
fiy, tc for my part I heard them say very 
little else than " the bottle is \vith you 
Sir," and " let us have another;" and 
" will you give us a toast, Sir ?'' 

te And is it thus these men of educa- 
tion converse together?' replied the Bee; 
<f I am astonished at it, but were we 
to sit and talk of it the whole of the night 
we should not make them better; we will 
therefore go home; 1 have only to say 
that I am glad I have escaped their ma- 
lice, and am obliged to you, my friend, 





for the affection which prompted you to 
stay for me ;" and now extending their 
wings they soon arrived at the hive, 
which the Bee entered, and accounting 
for his late return received the congratu- 
lations of all his companions on his safety. 

The Butterfly found a resting- 
place near it, and the next day met his 
friend with anxious enquiries of " how 
he found himself?" The Bee was still 
stiff, and felt too much of the ill effects 
of his last visit to wish to accompany 
him on another, at present,, therefore he 
remained but just without the hive, and 
left the Butterfly to make ' the voyage 
of observation' by himself. In the 
evening, as they again met, he enquired 
into the result of his rambles. 

" I am more and more astonished at 
the weakness of mortals," returned the 
Butterfly, " and am convinced that a 




Jine lady will believe any thing, and will 
be pleased with the greatest nonsense, if 
said to her by way of compliment; 
though I have visited but one house to- 
day, and that was with one of my old 
acquaintance, with whom I flew about 
till we chaced each other into a spa- 
cious drawing-room, in which sat a 
young lady, who was endeavouring to 
lay the imitation of flowers upon a 
small table; I believe they call it paint- 
ing, and it was nearly finished ; a gen- 
tleman sat by her, and seemed to ad- 
mire every stroke of her pencil, though 
for my part I could not see any thing 
so very admirable in it; the colours, to 
my eye, were put on very roughly, and 
I could not have thought he would have 
paid so ill a compliment to her under- 
standing, as to suppose she would have 
believed him, when on our .settling on 




them after we had sported round the 
room, he declared that we took them 
for natural flowers." 

" And did she believe him ?" asked 
the Bee. 

" She smiled," returned the Butter- 
fly, <f and seemed very much pleased ; 
and it is certain that she did not contra- 
diet him, though she soon drove us 
off again, fearing, I suppose, that we 
should discover the deception ; but we 
had done that long before, and only 
fixt ourselves there because it was the 
nearest place to rest on. After this we 
flew out, and met with other compa- 
nions, and I don't know how it was, but 
the day seemed gone before we were 
aware; however, we have enjoyed our- 
selves without interruption, and you, I 
hope, are better able to pursue what 
affords you pleasure, than when I 
left you in the morning?'* 



" I am recovering very fast, ' re- 
turned the Bee, " and it is quite ne- 
cessary I should, for I believe a won- 
derful change is soon to take place in 
my circumstances, and you must not 
be surprised if you should not see me 
in this neighbourhood much longer." 

" What do you mean?" enquired the 
Butterfly, half alarmed, though he knew 
not from what cause; " you are not go- 
ing to hide yourself from me, are you?" 

< c No/' returned the Bee ; " our 
movements cannot be hid, we shall make 
noise enough about it, but I am not at 
liberty to disclose the secrets of the 
hive; to-morrow, perhaps, if you keep 
a good look-out, and the weather is fine, 
you may see what will unravel this mys- 
tery; in the meanwhile assure yourself 
of the continuance of my friendship, 
anddo not think, after the attention I 



 

experienced from you last night, and 
on a former occasion, I can forget you." 
With this assurance the ButterflysufFer- 
ed his friend to depart without making 
any farther enquiry, and sheltering 
himself for the night under a large hol- 
ly-hock, resolved not to let the sun arise 
without his awaking to observe the 
movements of the Bee, and his compa- 
nions; and, if possible, to find out the 
meaning of what he had heard. 





CHAP. VI. 

" When nought but balm is breathing through 

the woods 

" With yellow lustre, bright, that the new tribes 
te Visit the spacious heavens, and look abroad 
" On Nature's common, far as they can see, 
" Or wing their range and pasture " 

THOMPSON. 

THE next morning all was bustle and 
activity in the hive at a very early 
hour, and the Butterfly also arose, and 
shook his wings, determined to let no- 
thing escape his observation which could 
discover the occasion of it: but though 
there seemed much noise within, no 
one came out; and, after waiting a great 
while, he began to think that nothing 
particular, was intended by what his 
friend had said, or that some confusion 
among themselves prevented their put- 
ting it in execution. He frisked about 





among the flowers, yet still contrived to 
keep the hive in view; till at length he 
saw a Bee advance, whom, from her ma- 
jestic appearance, he concluded was 
the queen ; a number of attendants im- 
mediately followed her; and, among 
the rest, his friend. She turned as if to 
take a last look at the home she was 
about to leave for ever, and on seeing 
multitudes of its inhabitants flocking 
out, as fast as the narrow entrance 
would allow, appeared to glory in the 
exulting throng; till raising her wings 
she led the way to seek some other ha- 
bitation. Immediately all the train fol- 
lowed her example, and the air was 
filled with the numerous retinue; who, 
by the noise they made, Appeared to 
vie with each other in paying her re- 
spect. All were earnest in their endea- 
vours to get near her, and to the eye of 





the Butterfly,, who followed at an hum- 
ble distance, they appeared a formida- 
ble phalanx; eager not only to prevent 
the approach of danger, but that even 
the eye of a stranger should be fixt 
upon her. Presently a crowd of peo- 
ple, from the neighbouring houses, 
came running towards them, with pot- 
lids in their hands, with which, as the 
whole body were slowly hovering round 
the trunk of an old tree, they endea- 
voured to drown their humming noise 
with a much louder one of their own; 
and this, from what they said, and their 
calling for the hive, the Butterfly learnt 
\vas to make them sooner settle. All 
this time it would have been difficult to 
have said who watched their motions 
most attentively, the men and women, 
or the Butterfly. As soon as her offi- 
cious attendants would give her an op- 
i 




portunity, her majesty fixt her feet 
upon a projecting branch, and happy 
were those who could cling the closest 
to her. All were now as desirous of 
fixing with her, as before they were of 
flying; and when they could no longer 
see or touch this sole object of their at- 
tention, they were still eager to press, 
and hang upon each other, as if pleased 
to touch but the back of a bee, who per- 
haps touched another that had hold 
of their Queen. 

The noise now ceased, and the bees 
were suffered to hang, unmolested, fon 
nearly an hour, in a large round clus- 
ter; still and motionless, as if no life 
or power was in them. Their pro. 
ceedings were so entirely new to the 
Butterfly, that, had not his friend beer 
amongst them, he should have wished t< 
see the end; but he saw a man approach 





whose face and arms were entirely 
covered, and placing a new hive under 
them, he shook the branch till the 
whole united body fell into it. A 
cloth was then thrown over them, and 
he bore it away in triumph. 

ee And will they suffer themselves to 
be thus taken ?" thought his attentive 
observer, as he eagerly extended his 
wings to follow the man ; <c will they 
be content to remain in that desolate 
habitation without a cell, or any provi- 
sion in it? no, no; the man will soon 
perceive his mistake," continued he, as 
he saw him place it on a block, which 
had been before prepared for it, " as 
soon as they can get their liberty, they 
will return from whence they came." 
However, it was himself, and not the 
man, who was mistaken; on the whole, 
the Bees liked their new abode very 





well; and it was not till the next day 
that he saw any of its inhabitants com- 
ing out in search of food; when he met 
his friend, who asked him "if he did 
not think he had given him notice of 
something worth seeing ?" 

fe I think I see that you have chang- 
ed for the worse/' returned the Butter- 
fly; " you have left a full hive with 
comfortable cells, and plenty of food, 
for one which is destitute of both !" 

" We shall soon get this as well 
stocked RS the other," replied the Bee; 
" but did you not see our Queen ? a 
sight of her is seldom had ; were you 
not charmed with her majestic appear* 
ance?" 

" Upon my word, no," said the But- 
terfly with a smile ; " but you must re- 
collect that I am not one of her nume- 
rous progeny; and to the eye of a But- 





terfly she is no more than another of her 
species; but why did you leave your 
home? is it grown old, and crazy ; or 
does it let the rain in ?" 

" I fancy we understand building bet- 
ter than for that to be the case," answer- 
ed the Bee, somewhat offended ; " but 
we were too full; weencreased so fast that 
there was not room for us all in one 
hive. We have therefore chosen ano- 
ther queen, in whom, by the bye, I am 
astonished that you see nothing to ad- 
mire ; and we young ones are come 
forth with her, to form another settle- 
ment. Happy shall we be to contribute 
to her tranquillity and comfort, and to 
supply her every want; while she is 
kind enough to permit us to call her 
ours, for the present ; therefore, you 
must not expect to see me one moment 
at leisure ; till we have, in some degree, 





given our abode the appearance of an 
habitation., we cannot be comfortable; 
\ve have already formed a cell for our 
beloved Queen, and a few others for 
her principal attendants; among which 
number, I am proud to say, I am; 
you must excuse me if I now leave you 
abruptly, as I am on the search for some- 
thing nice for her to eat." 

<e Proud, indeed," thought the But- 
terfly, as he saw jhis friend hastily de- 
part. " Why, I am hardly spoken to 
now this new queen is come in the 
way. Well," continued he, " I am glad 
we have no sovereign, in whose service 
we might spend our lives. Our time is 
our own, and we enjoy it as we like/' 
added he, clapping his wings, and flying 
off in pursuit of some companion as 
thoughtless as himself. The next morn- 
ing he returned very early to the hive 





in hopes of seeing his old friend, though 
he did not suppose he would allow him 
his company for more than a minute. 

ef We can converse together as we 
fly," said the Bee, who advanced to meet 
him, (C but I must fetch some honey 
for her majesty's breakfast; won't you 
accompany me? we still go on build- 
ing very fast, and wax is brought in 
great abundance for that purpose." 

" While you are thus employed, I do 
not expect to have much of your compa- 
ny,*' said the Butterfly, t: and have there- 
fore made an agreement with some of my 
old acquaintance to take an excursion 
into the country, and enjoy ourselves 
there for a few days. The summer is 
passing quickly away, and our lives, 
supposing no accident cuts us off, must 
end with it; we must, therefore, frisk 
while we may." 




" Certainly/' replied the Bee, "you 
were made for that purpose, and by the 
lime you return I shall probably be 
more at liberty; we have a great deal to 
do, but there is likewise a number of 
hands, all able and willing to assist;" 
and directing his friend to find out the 
hive when he came back, he wished him 
much pleasure, and thus they parted for 
3 short time, the one to play, and the 
other to work, though both equally 
pleased with the pursuit they were 
about to follow. 

The Butterfly soon after joined his 
gayer friends, and sailing high in air, 
they winged their way, to " range the 
forest's green retreat." 

" These thro* the tangled wood -walks play, 
" Where no rude urchin paces near, 
*' Where sparely peeps the sultry day, 
f ( And light dews freshen ail the air." 





Thussported the happy party, uninter- 
ruptedly enjoying the live-long day, 
and resting at night within " the lily's 
bell!" They skimmed the purple heath, 
visited the rivers' brink, and each day 
brought some new pleasure in their 
view, till at length the weather began 
to change, a cold wind blew, and there 
was every appearance of an approach- 
ing tempest; and now it was that the 
Butterfly began to think of his friend 
the Bee, and of his warm comfortable 
hive; though he knew he could not be 
admitted there, he felt that it must be 
very pleasant to have such an asylum 
to retreat to. Every one of his flutter- 
ing companions were now flying away, 
each desirous of finding a place of safe- 
ty for himself, and he still bent upon re- 
turning to his more steady friend, endea- 
voured to gain the way which led to his 




abode, though the wind was now so pow- 
erful that he could scarcely bear against 
it, or see the way he was taking. At this 
moment a stage-coach passed him, and 
though he did not know it would convey 
him from the place he was then in, he 
was glad to take the shelter it afforded, 
and flying in at one of the open win- 
dows he soon found a resting-place. 
After recovering from the disorder and 
confusion the rough wind had put him 
into, he had time to examine where he 
\vas, and noticed two young ladies, and 
an officer very gayly drest, apparently 
confined within this very small space. 

" What's this ?" exclaimed the gen- 
tleman ; " a Butterfly ! we want no such 
intruders here; ladies, are you alarmed? 
is the creature disagreeable ? 

" Let the poor thing alone," said an 
elderly man, whom the Butterfly had 





not observed before, " its as free to 
live as you are; 'tis true we have frivoli- 
ty enough in our cargo, but the horses 
won't feel this addition to it." 

" It has taken shelter from the 
storm/' said one of the ladies, not at all 
regarding what he said; " and if it does 
not settle on me it is welcome to re- 
main." The coachman now got ofitfiis 
box,, and opening the door, begged to 
know if there was room for a young wo- 
man, who was on the outside. 

" It rains hard," said he, " and she 
will be wet to the skin if she stays 
there." Instead of answering his en- 
quiry the officer, in a low voice, replied 
thus: " I say, who is this old fellow in 
the corner ? any one of consequence ? 
hey?" 

" Oh bless you, no Sir, he won't 
nrind hes coming in, if you don't/* 





" Mind her coming? no, I suppose 
not/' replied, he, " but the ladies are 
to be consulted; what say you ladies? 
have you any objection ?" They looked 
at each other as if hesitating for an 
answer, which the old gentleman ob- 
served, and immediately offered to get 
out, and let her have his place; at this 
the whole party seemed rather ashamed, 
and one of the ladies replied, " Oh dear 
BO! we only thought her clothes might 
be wet." 

" And spoil yours,, I suppose ?" re- 
turned the old gentleman rather rough- 
ly, " but I dare say you will have no 
objection to this young officer's sitting 
between you, and then she can take his 
place, and you will be in no danger." 

This proposal was readily acceded to, 
and the young woman cameinwithmany 
thanks, while the gallant gentleman 




seated between the two ladies declared, 
that f< if he did not incommode them 
he was the happiest man alive, and only 
wished that they were going to travel 
hundreds of miles together." 

<f An enviable situation truly," said 
the old man, with an air of contempt, 
and folding his arms, as if preparing to 
sleep; ff l,"said one of the ladies, " shall 
soon be at my journey's end," naming 
the place at which she was to be set 
down; " and I," replied the other, "am 
to go but one mile further. 3 ' 

" Oh! Heavens! and what shall I 
do then?" returned their admiring beau, 
" shut up in this place by myself; I 
shall certainly hang myself if I have 
an opportunity ! what lose such charflti- 
ing companions so soon ?" At this the 
ladies both smiled, and seeing such sort 
of conversation pleased, he plied therm 





with it very freely, while the old man 
slept, or pretended so to do, and the 
young women looked rather inclined 
to blush for those of her sex who could 
receive such flattery. 

When one of the ladies left the 
coach, the other seemed fearful that 
their complimenting admirer would 
hurt himself, in straining his neck to 
look after her, as she ran through the 
rain to a house which stood at a little 
distance from the road. On drawing 
his head in again, he praised her beauty 
exceedingly, till fearing he should car- 
ry his encomiums too high, so as to of- 
fend the other, whose countenance al- 
ready bespoke an approaching gloom ; 
he dissipated the very appearance of it 
in a moment, by " begging to know if 
they were not sisters, their likeness to 
each other was so great ?" This had the 





desired effect, for though she assured 
him they were not, yet if her compa- 
nion was handsome, and they were alike, 
she must be so likewise. To be handsome 
is as much as some people desire, 
thought the Butterfly, on observing her 
face resume a smile, " no wonder that we 
Butterflies should wish it." After some 
more conversation equally foolish, she 
also arrived at the place of her destina- 
tion, and the gentleman, not at all re- 
garding his other companions, again de- 
plored the melancholy situation he 
should be left in. 

As soon as the lady was gone, the old 
gentleman thus addressed him, " Young 
man, I think you have shown your folly 
whilst you have been attempting to 
hoax those women; that's the word, is it 
not?" 

" Poor country girls!" replied the 





officer, laughing, f( how pleased they 
were; they believed every word I said; 
they look as if they had never been be- 
yond their own country town, and yet I 
made one of them think that I suppo- 
sed she had lived in London all her 
life." 

"And where have you lived?"replied 
the old man, " to learn that there is 
any wit in making people appear more 
ridiculous than they really are ?" 

" Oh," said the other," they'll go home 
and talk of me for days to come ; I 
should not wonder if they expected to 
see me returning in search of them with- 
in a short time, as not being able to live 
out of their company." The old gen- 
tleman then turned to the young wo- 
man, who had sat a silent spectator like 
the Butterfly, and bade her take a lesson 
from what she had seen and heard, noj 




to believe what was said to her; "you 
may perhaps one day or other meet 
with an idle fellow," continued he 
" who may think proper to amuse him- 
self by talking thus, but do not you pay 
so ill a compliment to your own under- 
standing, as to sit with a simper on your 
countenance at whatever nonsense he 
may chuse to utter." 

The young woman expressed her 
thanks, while the disconsolate beau sat 
with his head half out of the window, 
as if wishing to avoid any farther con- 
versation. 

The weather seemed now cleared 
away, the wind and the rain had ceased, 
and the Butterfly began to prepare for 
flight. On seeing this the old gentleman 
said, " Ah, go, poor harmlefs creature, 
I am glad for your sake, andthisyoung 
woman's, that I have travelled this way 




to-day, or neither of you would have 
been v admitted.*' 

Our adventurer would have thanked 

him if he could, and leaving the window 

had the pleasure of seeing he was very 

near the place he wished to be in ; he 

saw some hives at a distance, and among 

them was his friend's abode, who, on 

seeing his approach, came to meet him, 

and to whom the Butterfly, after they 

had expressed their pleasure at again 

being together, related the adventures 

he had met with, particularly the way 

in which he had been broughtback, 

and many were the moralizing remarks 

occasioned by the recital of what had 

passed during his ride. 

" The race bf human beings must 
certainly be degenerated," observed the 
Bee, " since all other creatures were 
first put under their subjection, and in 





no other way can I account for the supe- 
rior conduct, and in many respects the 
superior wisdom also, of those whom 
they think so much below them/' 

The Butterfly then asked in what 
state of forwardness the new hive was 
in, and was happy to learn, that during 
his absence they had nearly completed 
the building within it, and that his 
friend was now ready to accompany 
him on his flights as usual. 



CHAP. VII. 

" Not all that tempts your wandering eyes, 
" And heedless hearts, is lawful prize, 
" Nor all that glitters gold/' 

GRAY. 

IN the course of the next day the 
two friends met again,, and while the 
Bee did not forget the more important 
work of gathering food for the approach- 
ing winter, he did not so earnestly pur- 
sue it as to make him unmindful of 
other things, 

" See here," said he to the Butterfly, 
as they flew towards a house whose open 
windows seemed to invite their en- 
trance; " let us go in, I think we shall 
meet with something worth our notice ?" 
The Butterfly hastened on, but no soon- 
er had he reached the window than 
turning back, he winged his flight ano- 




ther way, with much greater speed, cal- 
ling to his friend to follow him. 

" What have you seen that has so 
alarmed you?" enquired the Bee, as he 
hurried after him, <c what is in that 
house so very frightful ?" 

" It belongs to a naturalist" replied 
the Butterfly, fe and don't you know 
what detestable creatures these are? had 
he seen me I should have lost my life in 
the cruelest manner." 

fc A naturalist!" returned the Bee, 
<c I never heard of one, what does he 
do?" 

'' Do ?" replied the trembling But- 
terfly, fe why, he would tear me limb 
from joint if I was in his power, and yet 
endeavour to preserve my life only to 
try how much he could make me suffer; 
did you not see how many of my spe- 
cies were pinned up against the walls 




of his room, whose peculiar form or co- 
lour had attracted his attention ? he 
thinks nothing of taking the life of 
any thing he admires. Oh ! it turns me 
sick to think of it; had I flown one inch 
farther I might have been thus impaled, 
and you also; no doubt you would not 
have escaped his observation, and for 
the sake of your sting, or examining 
what you carry your honey in, you 
would have been quickly dispatched; 
various are the instruments he has got 
about him, and numberless insects does 
he daily destroy." 

" These are detestable creatures in- 
deed/' answered the Bee ; " what can't 
they be satisfied with viewing our forms 
as we pass along, but must they pull us 
to pieces, by way of admiration? I 
fancy when they have taken the most 
accurate survey, they could not make 





either a Bee, or a Butterfly; it is a pity 
therefore that they should destroy that 
life which they can never give. I de- 
clare the more I see of these human be- 
ings, and think of their cruelty, as 
well as absurdities, it makes me almost 
determine to quit the haunts of men, 
and if it ever should be my lot again to 
seek another habitation, I would use all 
my influence with my fellow Bees in 
order to remove to some wild wood 
where they might never find us." 

" You would be perfectly right,'* 
returned the Butterfly ; <f as for us, if we 
escape them one summer, we willingly 
resign our lives at the end of it, and 
led by instinct seek a place in which 
we die unlamented, and soon forgotten ; 
but this is not the case vfithyou; while 
you live you are useful, and at your 
death a whole society feels your loss; 




but look/' continued he, pointing to- 
wards a bottle that hung tied to the 
branch of a fruit-tree, in which were 
several wasps decoyed thither by the 
liquid it contained, and dying in the 
sweets they sought, " there is another 
instance of their malice, don't you see 
those poor creatures?" 

" Oh! yes," returned the Bee, ff and 
though I am no friend to wasps, who 
are often wishing to share the fruits of 
our labour, without having any right to 
them ; and in many things are striving 
to imitate us, though I believe their 
chief aim is to do mischief, yet I cannot 
justify men who use such mean arts to 
entrap them to their destruction ; but 
what is that I see in yonder window?" 
continued he with a hurried air, "some- 
thing that more particularly demands 
my attention, a Bee in distress ; and 




hark, he calls to me for assistance ;" so 
saying., without waiting for the Butter- 
fly to accompany him, he flew towards 
the place, where was a Bee nearly 
drowning in a pot of honey. " And 
one of my own hive too '."exclaimed he, 
as he drew nearer; " my dear brother, 
how came you in such a situation ?" 

(e Surely we are to see nothing but 
shocking sights to-day," observed the 
compassionate Butterfly, who had hasti- 
ly followed his friend, half afraid that 
something still more terrible had hap- 
pened, " bur," said he, on seeing the 
struggling captive, " he will not die; 
'tis certain he can keep his head above 
the edge till you have procured more 
assistance; I fear I am not strong enough 
to help to pull him out." 

While he was speaking, his companion 
had flown to the hive., and with incre- 


dible swiftness returned with more of 
the community, who altogether lent 
their aid, and after much toil and pains 
extricated the poor exhausted Bee from 
the ill effects of seeking too large a 
share of those sweets which only proved 
so, when moderately enjoyed, ' safe in 
themselves 'but dangerous in the ex- 
cess.' 

<c I only rested on the edge of the 
pan," said he, as soon as he could speak, 
" and after an unsuccessful flight was] 
glad to see a store of that which I had 
been so long searching for in vain; I 
thought I would just take a sip or 
two, and perhaps bring home a little of 
it to the hive." 

On hearing this one of the oldest of 
the throng thus addressed him : " Know, 
my brother, that what we make our- 
selves is only welcome there, and that 





food for which we labour hardest, is 
the sweetest to the palate of every in- 
dustrious Bee; idle drones and wander- 
ing wasps may sip the honey which 
others have prepared, but let the dan- 
ger you have escaped to-day teach you 
to use the powers nature has given you, 
and taste the sweets of your own procu- 
ring rather than that of others." 

The trembling Bee thanked him for 
his advice, and promising to follow it, 
he was escorted home by all the train, 
where he met with other assistants, who 
cleared away the clammy substance that 
still encumbered him, and he was suffer- 
ed to rest within all that day to recover 
himself. Meanwhile, the Butterfly waited 
without the hive, till his friend returned, 
and they renewed their flight. 

Nothing particular met their eye til! 
they passed some flies, who were round 



a piece of horse-flesh, the smell of which 
discovered where it lay, and its half 
devoured state shewed the avidity with 
which these buzzing insects fed upon it. 
" See," said the Bee, " what oppo- 
site natures are within the circle of cre- 
ation. These devouring flies find as 
much pleasure in eating from this stink- 
ing carrion, as from the choicest honey ; 
nay, perhaps this is more agreeable to 
them, though nothing in which they 
can thrust their devouring trunks es- 
capes their taste, but with this delicious 
morsel, that really poisons the surround- 
ing air, they are so delighted, that they 
even chuse it for an habitation likewise. 
Here they lay their eggs, and bring 
forth their young, and having no trou- 
ble to hunt for food for them, they 
spend their time in flying round it, till 
their habitation and provision being 





gone together, they are obliged to 
seek another residence equally conve- 
nient. " Though you bear the same 
name, my friend," continued he, " I am 
witness that you have not their nature." 
" Their nature!" interrupted the 
Butterfly, half offended at being men- 
tioned together, " no ! I hope not, or 
their name either ! what, shall the 
beautiful winged tribe of Butterflies be 
put upon a footing with these carrion- 
eaters, who live upon what, even in 
our crawling state, we should reject 
with disgust. If I may speak my opi- 
nion, I think their form, and the noise 
they make while flying, is more like 
your race than ours, though alas ! in one 
respect, I feel myself too closely allied 
to them, that is, I must shortly resign 
my being ; the date of my life will 
soon be ended; I have felt the chilling 



blast of the morning air long before 
you are out of your hive, and if you are 
not already aware of it, can give you 
notice that winter is approaching." 

" Indeed/" replied the Bee,, " I have 
seen some tokens of it myself; the 
flowers are not in such plenty, and as 
their faded leaves fall off, no young 
buds are seen to supply their place; 
however, such is the use which we have 
made of the summer, that we are not 
afraid to look forward to the time when 
every outward resource shall fail : but, 
my friend, I fear you are of too delicate 
a frame to live through the winter, 
though the place of your retreat be ever 
so warm ; but have you not thought of 
where you will retire to ?" continu- 
ed he. 

" A place to die in is easily found," 
replied the Butterfly, (t and you must 





not be surprised if you see me no more; 
the damps of the night will soon prove 
fatal, and I know not if I shall survive 
another. "" 

" Do not speak so," returned the 
Bee," " how gladly would I afford you 
an asylum if it was in my power; how- 
ever, I cannot let you resign your life 
so easily ; green leaves are yet to be 
found) and now, within our reach, I see 
a convenient crevice, into which you 
may creep; there cherish life as long as 
you can, my friend, and by only ventur- 
ing out when the sun shines brightly, 
you may perhaps extend your days be- 
yond their usual period, and have your 
name recorded, as a Butterfly who has 
survived the summer.' 1 

" Thank your kindness," returned 
fche short-lived insect, " my Jife has 
been already lengthened through your 





means, but you cannot renovate my 
nature ; may yours be extended." 

(C As long as it can be useful," said 
the Bee, interrupting him, ff but to you 
I owe all that I have gathered this sum- 
mer," added he; " for had it not been 
for your friendly and compassionate 
encouragement when first \ve met, I 
should have sunk a victim to the con- 
sciousness of deserved destruction; say 
not, therefore, that you have been of 
no use in the world." 

" I will not" returned the Butterfly, 
faintly fluttering his wings, as if with 
his last breath he was desirous of re- 
joicing it had been in his power to do 
good. 

From this time the poor Butterfly was 
still more sensible of the weakness of 
his frame, and flying towards the place 
hi* friend had pointed out, he entered, 





never to quit it more, " self-buried 'ere 
he died," for in the morning when the 
Bee visited the spot he was deaf to his 
voice, and his pitying friend had to la- 
ment the sudden change in one he had 
so very lately seen frisking about in all 
the gaiety of health and spirits. 

" Poor fly/' said he, " thou hast been 
faithful to me, and has even forgot thy 
wonted pleasures to afford me assist- 
ance; I will not leave thee to the de- 
vouring jaws of thy fellow insects, at 
least thy little body shall be preserved 
from being so destroyed," and with this 
resolution he spent one whole day in 
gathering wax, and stopping up the 
crevice which contained the remains of 
his friend all the return he could now 
make for his former kindness. After 
having given this last proof of affection, 
he returned to the hive, and there in 





the busy labors of the Commonwealth 
soon forgot the shock which the unex- 
pected death of his airy companion had 
occasioned. 

During that winter they were suffer- 
ed to remain unmolested, and as the 
ensuing summer approached, (accord- 
ing to the plan he had formed so long 
ago,) he proposed their taking a farther 
flight, and seeking a refuge in some 
solitary wood; e( I have seen more of 
mankind than you have, my friends," 
said he, " and have observed both their 
customs and manners; believe me, they 
are i nconsistent fickle creatures; their con- 
duct towards one another shows that they 
are not to be trusted; much more, then* 
have we reason to be afraid of them. You 
very well know it is in our power to live 
without their assistance; what is it which 
they procure us but just an empty shell 




for our habitation ? for this they expect 
our stock of honey, and to obtain it 
scruple not to take our lives! We have 
already seen, in the destruction of one 
or two of our neighbouring hives, the 
fate which awaits us; but could I per- 
suade all of my species to wing their 
flight beyond their reach, they might 
be taught a little more humanity, and 
would perhaps spare our lives, if we 
were again in their power. Content to 
share with us what our labours have pro- 
duced, they might then leave us to die 
when our exhausted nature fails, and for 
their own sakes also would not cut us off 
in the prime of life, and while we have 
health and strength to add to the stock, 
which would be as much for their bene- 
fit as our own." 

This speech had the desired effect; 
.the whole community seemed roused by 




it, and entering into his scheme, on the 
appointed day not a Bee was left be- 
hind, but altogether mounting the air 
they winged their flight far beyond its 
usual extent, nor could all the clattering 
of pots and kettles make them settle, 
till clear of the noise and out of the 
sight of man they found an habitation 
for themselves, and under the covert 
of a thick wood passed the remainder 
of their days in peaceful industry. 






CHAP I I CANNOT doubt but that all my youthful friends are well acquainted with the beautiful insect called a Butterfly yet it is not improbable that some are ignorant of the different states of its existence they have viewed its rich tints with admiration chased it for such beauty but never imagined that the object of their pursuit was once an insignificant worm from which they would have turned in disgust Such however is the nor let us pass over the useful lesson it conveys Supposing our form to be as unseemly as the butterflys in its early state we have it in our power to cultivate and adorn the mind vnth beauties far superior to the gaudy insects because lasting their charms are perishable and fade with the passing hour the charms of intellectual improvement bloom through life a constant source of gratification to ourselves and a certain passport to the esteem of the wise and good How much more valuable this kind of Approbation than the everyday praises bestowed on a pretty face tho would not prefer being a rational and amiable little boy or girl though plain in features to the gayest attired butterfly that ever sported among the fairest flowers The e2s from which these insects proceed are hatched by the sun a whose powerful rays bursting their prison walls set at liberty the grovel ing and helpless worm In this state it exhibits none of that activity so evident in the butterfly its motion is a slothful creeping pace in food green leaves This change is succeeded by one still more inactive they fold themselves as it were into a kind of case or covering and remahi a certain time in a complete state of torpidity From this second confinement they emerge in all their beauty no longer the sluggish pedestrian of the earth but the gay and airy traveller of the atmosphere There are day and night butterflies we distinguish the first by the slight texture of its wings which resemble a thin silk or gauze well adapted to fly during the heat of day The night traveller is more substantially clothed Nature has given it wings resembling velvet its little members are enveloped in a kind of fur It was on a sultry morning in July soon after sunrise that one of this gay tribe quitted the friendly shade of a laurel to sip the sweets of early dawn His fickle nature led him from flower to flower scarce had he tasted the dew of one when his roving eye caught the full drop pending from another and away he flew to enjoy it The garden however was not re markable for the variety of its productions it was a small piece of ground attached to a neat white cottage whose owners were too poor to possess a larger one and too industrious to spare much time in the cultivation of what they had To the subject of our history it was every thing he had seen no bet tor here he was born and here he expected to die tis true he felt the sameness of the scene but unconscious of the nature of his feelings he sought not to remedy the evil endeavouring to make the most of his situation nor leaving a flower wild or otherwise uritasted Tired at length of his own inconstancy he fixed upon a fragrant jasmine that crept over the front of the dwelling in wild luxunance and so exquisite were its sweets that he resolved to make his breakfast of them The opening of a casement just above his head interrupted the meal but perceiving he was not noticed he continued his repast during which his curiosity was particularly attracted by the conversation of a chubby boy and girl who standing at the open window were learning their lesson from the same book Though useless himself he could not forbear admiring the attention they bestowed on the allotted task questioning each other with the greatest exactness scarcely allowing a minute for breakfast which they took as they stood it consisted of a small basin of milk and some coarse brown bread Homely as such fare would appear to many young folks with whom I am acquainted these children unaccustomed to luxuries ate and drank with the keenest appetite nor seemed to covet better A female voice called them just as they had finished and our butterfly having nothing farther to divert him crept under a cluster of jasmine and sunk into a gentle slumber How loni he continued thus is uncertain He was aroused suddenly by a rude shock that nearly threw 7 him from his fragrant bed Agitated and confused he flew to the opposite side of the gar den and resting upon the broken pales surveyed with fearful eyes the spot he had just quitted to dis cover the cause of his alarm It was in fact no other than the hand of the little girl who according to her usual custom had plucked a sprig off the tree to adorn her bosom previous to her going to school Shortly after she came out of the cottage accompanied by her brother he carrying his book she her knitting and open ing the gate they proceeded up the green lane in which the house stood Their winged admirer looked after them with regret he had formed a most favourable opinion of them and wished to be better acquainted with them and to see where they were then iioing his wings expanded with his wishes he flew after them The girl stopped to add a hedge flower to her nosegay he failed not to follow her example he stopped too the flow ers were wild but sweet and being a novelty highly gratified his epicurism Keeping at a certain distance he followed the cheerful pair until they reached a very small hut much infe rior to their own the door was open and disclosed to our astonished traveller from fifteen to twenty children of both sexes seated in exact order upon low wooden benches Near the only window in the apartment sat the dame or humble mistress of the seminary her shrill voice and the buzz of her scholars somewhat intimidated and checked him He looked round for a shelter but no dainty blossom met his eye a few bushes covered with dust were alone in view Thus circumstanced he gladly availed him self of a pot of stonecrop which stood on the broad window frame here there was no temptation for the appetite but the scene within attract ed his notice sufficiently to banish self for a time The variety of countenances the studious attention of some the indolent attitudes of others and above all the proper conduct of his two little friends amused and excited the liveliest pleasure in the new visi tor Nor did the dame escape his observation her well mended gown of divers colours clean check apron and lilywhite cap gave him a strong idea of her cleanliness but there was a certain severity in her features heightened perhaps by her uncouth spectacles that made him keep aloof from her side of the window his preju dice however was greatly lessened when he heard her bestow unlimited praises on his favorite Phebe and her brother nay he ventured to rest a minute on the back of her chair while in this station he discovered a large beau pot of fresh flowers placed in a broken red teapot by way of ornament to the smoke coloured cbini tfey shelf A butterfly of the ton would have shuddered at the idea of sipping the sweets of the loveliest flowers if not elegantly arranged in a china vase but our novice was totally ignorant of fashionable life the dames teapot disgusted not his deli cate feelings he flew immediately to the luring spot and skipped from bud to flower with all the agility of nature His sportive movements at length caught the eve of an idler who directly communicated the intelligence to another dunce IC See what a beautiful butterfly cried the latter to a third and the news spread like wild fire Now of all the dames senses that of hearing was undoubtedly the keenest the general murmur did not escape her notice without raiding her head she lookeJ over her huge spectacles with an expression peculiar to herself and those who observed her were instantly mute and as quiet as mice Unluckily all did not profit by the warning a bold adventurer darted forward and threw his Primer at the unconscious in sect alas with aim too sure the stun ned victim fell senseless on the hearth This cruelty was beheld with just indignation by the watchful preceptress who immediately summoned the offen der to come forth in a tone of voice never disobeyed Cowardice and cruelty usually go together thus he who for sport had endeavoured to kill a harmless butterfly now shrank from the just reproof of his mistress After chiding him for his inhumanity and inflicting some smart strokes of a small switch upon his right hand that committed the deed he was placed in the middle of the room as an object of disgrace with both hands tied he hind his back to prevent his using them improperly again the good lady further observed that idle people were always doing mischief for want of better employment while the diligent seldom did wrong because never at a loss for something useful to fill up time without hurting themselves or others as an instance of the last she named Phebe and her brother Ned whose behaviour was not only a credit to her school but a pattern for every child present The objects of her praise blushed with genuine modesty others with shame yet all appeared to feel the justness of her commendation She then bade Ned take the butterfly gently by the wing and place it out side of the window to try if the fresh air might not revive suspended anima tion Ned did so and in a few minutes the ciame5 humane intc trerc rewarded by seeing the euted insect move and shake its wings though feebly A quarter of an hour had nearly elapsed before its strengtn permitted flight and then whither was he to go his recollection of the mornings route was too faint to venture on retracing it should he seek a new road what evils might he not encounter how many enemies all children were not Neds and Phebes his late narrow escape had proved this truth and the idea of the past made him shudder at the thought of remain ing where he was At this critical moment two of his species flew briskly across the road his spirits revived instantly in these thought he I shall surely find friends and stretching his feeble wings followed their course He was however ill calculated for ihe pursuit in a short time they were completely out of sight leaving him on a bind where he was compelled to rest Fatigue and anxiety produced a drowsiness and creeping into the heart of the flower he com posed himself to slumber and never had he required it so much From this repose he awoke much refreshed leaving his couch he alighted on the grass to enjoy the cheering beams of the sun now shin ing in his meridian glory The bloom ing clover which here and there had escaped the mowers scythe afforded him a rich repast nay he fancied it equal to his favorite jasmine and vas about making a vow never more to seek food from a higher source when a rude clamour struck his ear a swarm of urchins leaped a stile into the meadows among whom he was at no loss to discover his late enemy A bind is the wild Convolvolus His relish for clover induced not a moments stay his flight was immediate and so eager was he to escape that regardless of distance he con tinued his route for many minutes without stopping but at length tempted by the grateful odour of a honeysuckle whose fragrant flowers hung negligently over a long wall he descended on the inner side Attached as he certainly was to the sweets of life the anticipated enjoyment of this feast was quickly forgotten from the beauty of the scenery presented to his view He looked from one charming object to another only to increase his admiration At the extremity of an extensive and tastefully arranged garden stood a dwelling nowadays styled a cottage but how unlike the simple one of his morning friends or the crazy hut of the schoolmistress The shining white of its stone dashed wall was agreeably relieved by the shade of several stately elms labernums blend ing their drooping branches formed an arched entrance to the house which was still farther sheltered by a green viranda that extended from one extremity to the other a verdant lawn descended with a gentle slope to the garden this last was adorned with all that elegance could suggest or wealth procure Our amazed traveller knew not how to decide how to choose where every thing seemed perfect his eye wandered over the luxuriant scene without the power of fixing till perceiving several of his kind basking in the broad bosom of the sunflower he joined the party desirous of forming an acquaintance and also of profiting ii i iy their superior judgment He felt some degree of embarrassment listening to the conversation of these gay flutterers who were natives of the delicious spot and consequently well acquainted with all its productions His confusion was quickly discerned and perhaps might have exposed him to ridicule had not the beauty of his form and the glowing tints of his spotted wings announced his descent that he was of the peacocks eye species could not be denied however rustic his manners nor could some of the group forbear shewing certain traits of envy highly gratifying to his vanity and renovating to hs drooping courage The instruction he had meant to seek now appeared derogatory he determined to conceal his ignorance as much as possible and by follow ing the example of others to acquire fashionable if not useful knowledge It was now for the first time he heard condemned as vulgar those flowers on which it had heen his ut most wishes lo feed the bare mention of clover excited disgust in more than one while a slight commendation bestowed on the simple violet by an old butterfly of the skull tribe caused a general laugh at the speakers expence Truth obliges us to confess that such sentiments were perfectly in unison with his own but the fear of ridicule checked his avowing as much and he readily entered into the false opinion of his companions thus even an insect shrank from sincerity because he preferred the approbation of the weak and vain In the course of a few minutes he became tolerably sociable with two or three in whose company he per formed a tour nearly round the gar den never failing to extol those sweeis lio found were considered as liixuik vet secretly preferring the cottage was mine to many of them At sight of a delicate female the whole party were in motion nor was our beau backward in the pursuit Never had he beheld so much loveliness her spotless and transparent wings rivalled the snow in whiteness the easy graceful ness of her flight added to her beauty Our novice was quickly enamoured Her modesty teemed unconscious of the power of her charms and while she flew from flower to flower he imagined it was to avoid her followers in this how ever he was deceived these frequent rests were made but to lead them on nor did she fix till assured they were rear enough to discern the action A moss rose tree was her choice the colour of which contrasted with her oun exquisite white dazzled the be holders At length he descended but ventured not to approach the fair nearer than three branches distance His temerity was not checked though he had soon the satisfaction of seeing his companions dismissed with disdain Upon this he advanced and was received with complacency and invited to the same flower on vhich she sported Thus honoured thus distinguished he forgot all past perils nay he looked forward with a feeling of certainty to spending his life with the gentle partner of his love the rose tree their home But alas his vanity exceeded his know ledge of the world At the very moment when his glowing imagination was picturing such scenes of bliss a gaudy rival approached whose large and glaring yellow wings caught the keen eye of her ladyship A lew circuits round the bush completed the conquest his boidnc a increased and he alighted upon the very same stem to the great indig nation of our enraged hero who was preparing to repulse the intrusion when in the twinkling of an eye the fop and fair coquette took wing and fled together Surprise and mortifi cation prevented a pursuit on his part while he secretly avowed never more to attach himself to the white winged species Shame forbade his returning to the sunflower haunt where he naturally expected to encounter the banter of his late associates On quitting the scene of degradation he found him self directly opposite the house he had admired at a distance one of the rooms opened with glass doors on the lawn curiosity induced him to enter and well was he repaid for his trouble the highly finished furnitare large mirrors stands of flowers globes with gold fish c over whelmed him with their splendour nor was this all from the frame of a superb chimney glass he first be held his own personal charms and if before he possessed the vanity ascribed to his species trebly was it increased by the unexpected disco very again and again he expanded bis exquisite wings and flying from one end of the mirror to the other ceased not to admire the superior beauty with which Nature had distinguished him from the vulgar of his kind This frivolous employment was interrupted by the entrance of two boys and a girl who rushing suddenly Into the room seated themselves at a table over which was dispersed books maps and other symbols of instruction The dress and appearance of these children so different from those he had ever seen bespoke them of a higher rank in life and as external show was just then high in his estimation he could apprehend no danger from such pretty and well dressed individuals nor deemed it necessary to change his situation farther than by retiring to a basket of miniionctte that with other flowers decorated a green stand before the fireplace In a short time the youngest of the boys apparently six years of age crept softly from his seat and advancing towards the window closed it in a moment then clapping his hands in triumph exclaimed so so I have you at last Mr Butterfly 1 and with one sweep of his hand he secured the unsuspecting flutterer See Mary said he this is the very butterfly that gave us such a chase this morning No it is not j he continued opening his hand and viewing the nearly senseless insect extended in the palm of it no it is one a thousand times prettier look Arthur did you ever see any thing so beautiful Beautiful indeed replied Arthur but your rough usage has nearly stifled the poor Stifled returned he why you dont mean to say that a butterfly can feel pain like us I certainly do mean to say so Bob and I am not a little surprised to hear you make so foolish a remark Cruel as well as foolish I think observed their sister I know I should be very sorry to squeeze an harmless insect in that way for one must be silly indeed not to know that a little worm can feel pain as well as men and women Well then I did not know it said Robert so there is some excuse for my fault but pray Miss Wiseacre if you were so clever why did you join me today when I was trying to catch one Because sir I wished to give it my uncle Harvey to put in his pretty glass case not to hurt it I assure you sir Yet Mary interrupted Arthur the butterfly would have fared worse with you than with Bob for when my uncle had received it he would have killed it immediately Did you not observe when shewing us his collection the insects were all dead Yes certainly I did brother but then I thought he kept them all carefully and led them until they yew old and died After that you know there could be no cruelty in shutting them up in a box Feed them till they die repeated Arthur no no child that would never suit his purpose he kills them while their beauty is in its prime and before age or accident should lessen it How very very cruel returned Mary shuddering u I think I shall never again look at his glass case with pleasure During this conversation the nearly exhausted insect lay panting upon the table where Robert had dropped it when censured by his sister He evidently desired to retain it but Arthur combated his inclination and at length gently raising it by the wing carried it to the window and placed it on the frame near the ground The sun and air quickly restored animation and while the young scholars pursued their studies it once more took wing Flying leisurely down the slope its tickle nature was attracted by the scent and glowing tints of a rose whose spreading bush skirted the lawn Scarcely was the discovery made ere a gentleman approached arid taking a penknife from his pocket separated the identical flower from the parent stem Many roses yet adorned the bush but our epicure butterfly coveted that one Casting a longing eve towards the stolen treasure he suddenly deter mined to pursue the owner in the hope of snatching a taste of its sweets His ardour was a little checked on finding the gentleman enter the room he had just quitted and he hovered a few minutes near the window But his fears entirely vanished when perceiving the blushing flower deposited in a china jar with a variety of others equally beautiful Again he ventured into the apartments and flew boldly to the tempting spot He accomplished his wish in safety for the children were too busily occupied with their lessons to spare him a portion of their notice Had our butterfly possessed much intellect he had now ample opportunity for improvement Mary and her brothers were clever children and by perseverance and attention well repaid their father for his kindness in instructing them But idleness in butterflies is excusable and cannot injure the human species On the contrary in children it is a fault of the greatest magnitude leading to the most distressing consequences and a constant source of anxiety to those who have the misfortune to be connected with them Our rover though he did justice to the good conduct of the interesting trio felt no inclination to profit by their example and continued feasting until the children concluded their morning studies He heard the father praise their diligence and witnessed the blush of pleasure such praise created Pray papa asked Robert can you tell me why Charles Maynard who is not as old as my brother should know every thing as well as his master I did not understand he was so very clever returned the gentleman smiling k Clever papa why he gets through a dozen lessons in half an hour he has such a way of going from one thing to another without trouble and reads writes draws maps and translates French fables 3 whilst we should be studying our geography only That is doing a great deal Robert but learning little if he thus hurry over all he cannot pay proper attention to any and of course is little the wiser for being taught His studies are like the pursuits of a butterfly sipping at every flower with out deriving real benefit from one You speak lightly of butterflies papa yet bees do the very same and I have heard you praise their industry And deservedly so my dear the bee sips not from a love of change only nor does she cull the sweets for herself alone her employment is the source of advantage to others Arthur has lately been reading an interesting account of this industrious insect and can give you some useful information on the subject Yes do dear Arthur added Mary for I think their history quite a curiosity 5 Arthur readily assented and gave the following account of them It is generally understood that bees are subject to laws and government There is in every hive a certain bee of larger growth than the rest who is evidently considered the superior by the community Naturalists are of opinion hat this head or monarch is a female and mother of all the hive Those we call drones which are larger and of a darker colour than the common bee are males they number from four to five hundred in a hive It is said the queen has her apartment in the upper part of the hive She seldom appears in public but when been is attended by several large bees probably the drones who follow her with respect or form a circle round her fluttering their wings as if rejoiced by her presence She is their chief concern in cases of danger and if deprived of her by any mis fortune they neglect all business and either fly away at random or languish and die The hive is a busy and curious scene business is carried on with the greatest diligence and complete unanimity prevails throughout the whole community they sympathize when in danger and fight for each other with the utmost courage and resolution The interest of the one is that of the whole their store the produce of the industrious is alike shared by all When alone and distant from their companions they are patient of affront but when within reach of assistance will not be disturbed in their labours without resenting the insult Amfcl plenty they are frugal and abstemious anioni themselves strictly honest but apt to plunder their neighbours when opportunity offers This often produces wars and tumults betwixt one hive and another They never suffer any thing offensive to remain in the hive uniting all their strength to remove the disagreeable object With a prudence not inferior t3 human foresight they provide in sum mer for the necessities of winter They give no encouragement to idle ness but as Spring advances and the young bees are able to provide for themselves the old ones send out a colony or swarm of them to shift for themselves and find another habitation In building their combs they separate into four bands the first of which traverse the fields to collect materials for the structure which chiefly consists of the tine dust they gather from flowers and which mixed with a certain gluey substance is made into wax The second divi sion work upon these materials and form them into a rough sketch of the size and partitions of the cells which are built hexagonal with the nicest mathematical exactness I suppose observed Mary to her little brother you know that hexagonal signifies six sides Arthur continued The third band examine and adjust the angles remove the superfluous wax and in short complete the work The fourth class attend as labourers during the whole process and such is their diligence that the hive is fitted with combs in a fortnight Thus you see Robert bees are far more valuable than butterflies and well deserve praises their industry so generally creates I will take you some morn ing to see a glass hive which 1 am assured would much entertain you When Arthur had finished his little history of this industrious insect his brother returned him thanks observing he should never like butterflies so well as bees although they looked so much handsomer j u You are right my dear returned his father for there is no comparison in the worth of the two I trust also that you will imitate your new favorite in your endeavours to be useful and pursue your duties with the same activity At this moment Marys eye fixed on our now humble butterfly who in sensibly led to listen to the foregoing conversation felt truly abashed in learning the general opinion of his inutility and the superior qualities attached to the bee an insect he had ever held in contempt See papa said Mary there is one of the idlers you mention Yes Mary and a very handsome one of its kind but as he can only please the eye and we are not cruel enough to seek his life for the gratifi cation of looking at his fine colours sre care not how soon he goes he is welcome to our flowers but not our attention 1 Our hero certainly experienced no desire to remain where he was so lit tle valued he instantly spread his wings and again explored the garden Here every thing offered pleasure Lut offended by his late reception he deigned not to continue near his tra ducers but passing over the vall opposite to where he first entered found himself on the high road Vilri flowers alone presented themselves to his view but these were sufficient lie was not very hungry and his last excursion had lessened his love of variety he began to wish himself in the garden where he first drew breath and had he known the way would assuredly have sought his native jes samine Several children passed him on the road but no Phebe or Ned were of the number and he was now sufficiently acquainted with the dispositions of children not to feel tenacious of trusting himself within their reach If they cannot make any good use of me thought he I will not become the sport of their cruelty my vanity shall not mislead me this time This idea had scarcely subsided when as he was resting on the blossom of a hedge convolvulus he was suddenly seized by the rough lare hand of a countryman who had been for some time watching his serial move ments and exclaimed on catching his prize So so I have you at last mister fine wings my little ones will thank me for this I know The trembling prisoner heard him in dis may for he naturally guessed the parent who could take such a present to his child would think little of the manner in which it was treated Un pleasant was his situation but still more so the anticipation of future half stifled in the closed hand of the unfeeling ploughman he struggled in vain to get free every attempt but added to the rigour of his confinement until at length death in any other shape seemed preferable The loud buz of children announced their journeys end two girls and a boy ran to meet their father enquiring what he held so carefully concealed from them They were bid to guess and did so many times unsuccess fully The eldest girl however catch ing a glance of its wings vociferated the truth and received the trembling victim as a reward for her ingenuity Followed by the other two she return ed to the house and began rudely to examine its various beauties she was a selfish child and in her endeavours to keep all the sight to herself narrowly preserved its life as her impatient brother ran from side to side now and then snatching at the poor flutterer while Nelly as eagerly drew her hand away to prevent his seeing it The youngest child now craved her right to see the beautiful butterfly daddy brought home and oi being refused set up a violent scream which soon drew the attention of her mother whose pet she was and miss Nelly was obliged to display her pme to please the baby who not content with viewing would touch and play with it in a way so rough that more than once it was in danger of being demolished the boy took his share of tormenting and in order to teaze Nelly urged the little one to pull oft its wings This cruel deed had assuredly been performed had not the mother persuaded them it would be better to keep the pretty creature under a glass when they might look at it every da without the fear of its flying away Thii bright idea was readily embraced and the hero of our story once more escaped destruction We regret to say humanity had little share in the mothers decision her children were froward spoilt pots alive to their own gratification only and she who should have curbed their every wish of doing wrong was often obliged to submit to their sallies of passion for the sake of what she termed peace and quietness Un fortunate children thus fatally in dulged at the expense of future hap piness A broken wineglass was placed over the object of dispute who scarcely enjoyed the unexpected reprieve while the cross petulant countenances of his young persecutors assailed him in every direction as he glanced at them from his transparent prison With the power of torment ing ceased their curiosity and al though they were delighted to quarrel with one another as to the right of pulling their prisoner to pieces they cared little to look at the same thing over and over again without touch ing it At this critical juncture puss caught a mouse in the barn at news of which one and all ran to the scene of action leaving our butterfly at leisure to reflect on the horrors of his situation All past perils appeared trifling when compared to the present in the school of the good dame he had found more than one protector in the beautiful parlour at the cottage he had experienced much humanity little Roberts rough usage had not proceeded from want of feeling and severely did he censure himself for suffering disappointed vanity to lead him from safety and plenty Happily for the bee sighed he her beauty does not attract the fickle notice of child hood her sting is a sufficient punishment for the bold trespasser upon her freedom her labours are attended with liule danger and are usually crowned with success my toils are the sport of fancy and cruelty and should I escape the ever threatening evils tend to no real good in the end would I were a bee an ant or any insect worth preserving Thus meditated our hero in distress the lesson but too well applies to many of our own species who depending upon outward attraction never take into consideration the uselessness of beauty until convinced by the neglect of the wise and good that personal charms alone can never gain esteem or respect Gladly would the hum bled beauty in question have exchanged forms with the heavy droning beetle or insignificant moth for whose flimsy wings he would readily have bartered Jiis own shining spotted ones A shout from the children created new terror and quickly a huge black cat rushed into the room pursued by them all eager to possess the dead mouse he squeezed between his jars He ran from corner to corner assailed with balls sticks and whatever came in the way of his pursuers till with a sudden spring he leaped upon the table where our butterfly was placed and darting out of the window over set the wineglass and freed his companion in distress The mischief was quickly descried by Nelly who shriek ing out Oh my butterfly my butterfly mounted the table to prevent its flight but notwithstanding her activity the object of it was yet more nimble and vaulting over her out stretched hands passed the casement again to breathe the air of freedom On the thatched roof he took rest too far removed from danger to dread pursuit and listened with allowable pleasure to the bewailings of his late unfeeling mistress who traversed the garden round and round in search of her captive threatening the cat with her utmost vengeance for letting it loose Puss had fled as high as one pair of stairs into a large walnut tree regardless of Nellys commands to come down and be beaten and while she enjoyed her meal but increased the rage of the little tyrant Her brother now appeared with a hat full of stones with which he proposed pelt ing the cat until they forced her from her new abode Nelly pleased with the proposal joined in the cruel attempt but soon had reason to re pent her malice for John selecting a large flinty stone threw it with all his force it struck one of the lower branches and fell with violence on his sisters head The blow was in deed severe but the action merited the punishment and as the poor butterfly viewed her bleeding and led into the house he experienced but trifling pity for her and still less for her brother who received from his father a complete thrashing for the mischief he had caused It may be supposed the present scene possessed no attraction to induce the persecuted insect to remain in its vicinity on the contrary every object excited terror and weak as he felt after so much ill treatment he exerted himself to the utmost to fly from all he had so lately witnessed His progress was slow but every movement of his wings gave him new strength and the hateful habitation was soon out of sight After various determinations as to the road he should take he suddenly lighted on some green paling en closing a small but neatly arranged garden The appearance of the place promising but upon inspection the produce was rather useful than luxurious All was quiet however and a meal unmolested he now considered a treat a sweet pea was his choice but not his alone for at the moment he fixed on its blushing blossoms a huge bee came humming round the spot and shortly took up her quarters on the very same stem The high character he had so recently heard of her added to her formidable sting made him feel rather shy of her acquaintance and he quickly retreated to a neighbouring carnation at the same time watching the progress of the intruders pur suits A feeling strongly resembling envy pervaded his breast as he reflected on the utility of her employment and he sincerely regretted that equal power was not given to his species A cucumber glass at this moment raised his drooping pride by reflecting his handsome form but his vanity was certainly not so keen as in the morning and after a short inspection of his beauty he sought other objects A house nearly concealed by lofty trees next drew his attention and although it was far from his intention to enter the duelling of man he was led towards it by the soothing voice of childhood tones so mild that he could not believe danger existed within sound of it In a bedroom whose half closed shutters admitted a partial light he discovered the fair speaker an interesting little girl who leaning over the pillow of a sick brother endeavoured to amuse and console him her kindness seemed to rouse the young invalid who repeatedly though in a languid voice declared his Susan was the best nurse in the world I am glad you think so my dear Charles said Susan because it is my wish to please you and I well re member how good you were to me when I had the measles 5 Here Susan kissed his pale cheek and dropped the tear of recollection Charles too seemed affected and returned her caresses with equal warmth Will you read tome Susan asked he Willingly my dear brother but first let me give you the medicine Jane left in my care Charles shook his head in disapprobation and confessed he did not like taking physic Nor da I returned Susan but however disagreeable it may be I think pain is a great deal worse and when we know a little Or this bad tasting stuff will cure us it would surety be folly to sutler illness rather than take what is necessary to prevent it Charles was silent and his kind nurse arose to prepare the dreaded dose When she approached the bedside with the glass of medicine in her hand he shrank back Susan looked disappointed What shall I say to mamma when she returns she supposes I am filling her place and tending you as she would do if at home I never saw you refuse physic when she offered it and I hoped you loved me too well to do so when I became your nurse but perhaps I do not understand how to make you happy or give you what is proper as 1 flattered myself I did Tell me dear Charles what I have done that does not please you Oh you never do wrong Susan it is not with you I am displeased only as I said before I cannot bear to take physic Then you will not take it bro ther shall I do so in your stead Charles smiled Why you dont want it you are very well you know and I dare say it would do you more harm than good Perhaps so but no matter you will not get well and may wish me to be ill to keep you company No that I am sure I do not returned he I would sooner be ill a hundred times than your head should ache once so come mistress nurse bring your nasty physic and let me swallow it quietly Susan was not long in performing this part of her duty and although Charles still asserted it was very dis agreeable stuff he emptied the glass in a minute His thoughtful nurse had a lump of sugar at hand and soon made him smilingly confess the task he had performed was trifling compared to anticipation Susan now settled his pillow and smoothed the bedclothes to his satis faction and then going to a book shelf selected a volume such as she guessed would please him and seating herself by the bedside commenced the following story THE PATCHED COAT It was Sunday the bells of the village church rang their usual peal for morning Prayer Young and old heard the summons and dressed in their neatest array hastened to join in thanksgiving and supplication The appearance of the villagers was more than commonly striking for the day was Easter Sunday and the youthful inhabitants generally put on some new garb on this day The industrious parent often sacrificed self comfort to procure an article of dress for their offspring It was not a desire for finery but a proper regard to decency respect and gratitude for the blessing this day had procured One family had ever been remark able for the neatness of their clothing and until this year considered an example to the rest of the village not only in outward appearance but for general good conduct But alas adversity had changed their prospects and their dress likewise The father an industrious farmer by a series of misfortunes had been obliged to quit his farm and submit to the daily fatigues of a labourer His wife equally deserving and once the active partner of his exertions lost her life in attending two children in a dangerous fever from which they recovered though she fell a sacrifice One short year deprived him of these comforts and reduced him from comparative affluence to poverty but he was a good and religious man bore his sorrows with fortitude and en deavoured to make his children do Yhe same His greatest trouble arose from the infirmity of a little girl about eight years of are born deaf and dumb her affliction endeared her to the whole family and her gentle disposition well repaid their care but her favourite brother two years older than herself was her principal companion and helpmate Joe possessed one of the best hearts in the world his disposition was cheerful and conciliating the use of pleasure to others and never so happy as when so employed His sister Fanny was his idol he was ever inventing something to amuse her taking her pleasant walks or culling the best flowers nuts or ripest blackberries for his pet His exertions were always crowned with success for Fanny was pleased with all be did and the time he spent at school seemed the most irksome of her life while his presence instantly created the smile to delight and she Mould throw her arms round his neck and weep with joy on his return Poor Joes coat was not so lasting as his spirits and good temper his sister Martha had mended it over and over again and at length in defiance of her own wish and Joes entreaties for the contrary had been obliged to patch it with another colour I dont see people wear blue coats with brown patches said Joe examining his sisters workmanship Nor I brother but any colour is better than a hole I am sure you would not like to go in rags 1 No certainly replied he but tomorrow is Easter Sunday and every one will have a new coat while I wear an old one of different co lours True Joe but then everybody is not so poor as we in better days we did not need such contrivances when father had the power he always gave his children the best he was able to earn his misfortunes are not of his own seeking and while we see him wear an old jacket like his pre sent one I think the least we can do is to be content with our own Oh I know father cant help it said Joe and I would not say a word to vex him for twenty shillings but 1 do wish Martha that my codi had lasted whole until after tomorrow Martha smilingly added Ay and until this time next year for all our sakes Joe smiled too owned it was silly to mind a patched coat and went whistling away to pick cowslips for little Fanny I think said Joe on Easter Sun day that I will go to church by the roadway the distance is much the same Not much difference I believe answered his father but methinks boy the fields would be more pleasant and beside you would join many of your companions by going the latter way I dont much care for company today J observed Joe looking at the brown patch on his elbow Why not today my dear re turned his father noticing his sons glance I dont see why that patch should lower you in the eyes of your playfellows they all know I gave you a better when I had the power go boy go to church the old way the fields will look just as green as ever and be assured your prayers will be acceptable in an old coat as well as a new one I never knew dress make the heart better or mend the temper so the conscience be whole no matter how many holes in the garb Poor Joe felt ashamed not of his coat but of himself he tried to speak his feelings but tears prevented him kissing his father hastily he snatched up the Prayerbook ran through the garden and was over the first stile in five minutes How do you do Joe exclaimed two boys in a breath are you not going to church and this Easter Sun day Yes to be sure I am answered he a little confused His young companions exchanged looks and immediately fixed their eyes on the brown patch What do you think of my coat asked the elder one and my hat and waistcoat added the younger They are very good very pretty replied Joe Dont you wish you had such enquired the last speaker No yes answered he be cause then father would be better in the world than he is now otherwise I dont care much for new coats Then you are not ashamed of that patch on your elbow Ashamed why should I be ashamed It is no crime to wear an old coat as father says new clothes neither make us better nor wiser 1 But you look so shabby Joe I am sure I should blush to go to church in such a coat as that I dare say every one will stare at you you will be the only boy who has not new clothes I cannot help that replied Joe 1 hope I shall not be the greatest dunce or the worst tempered 7 No fear of that cried a good natured rosy girl tapping him upon the shoulder what makes you look so serious Joe It is enough to make him look serious said James Evans the eldest boy here he is going to church on Easter Sunday in that old patched coat and we and everybody else have nice new ones 1 Well and will your nice new coat ojjve you nice new vuvs of saying your lessons tomorrow Joe need not mind his brown patch while he can read better than all the boys in the village I would sooner wear his old coat today than your crying faces tomorrow when you go to school as you always do without learning three words of your task James muttered something about being as clever as Joe and that Han nah had no business with his lessons but perceiving the arch girl was half inclined to laugh at him and well knowing how much Joe was his superior in learning he slunk behind with his brother and left his companions to proceed alone Joe felt relieved by their absence and although grateful for Hannahs interference could not help watching to discover if she noticed the brown patch Hannah however was a riri uf too much discernment to vue people for their dress and as she was well acquainted with Joes good qualities never thought of the colour of his coat At the church door they parted Joe took his usual seat near the clerks desk and notwithstanding he saw many eyes fixed upon his brown patch that should have been directed to their books he never blushed bat once and that was when a gentleman in the best pew looked earnestly at him and appeared to examine him from head to foot He does not know any harm of me thought Joe and he again turned to his Prayer book forgetting every thing but the place he was in and for what purpose he came there When the service concluded Joe was surrounded by his young acquaintances who while they asked trifling question or made some frivolous observations evinced by their eyes that his coat alone was the object of their attention His glow ing cheek betrayed him not quite at ease but his fathers words still dwelled upon his memory and he determined to conquer the silly pride he felt arising At this moment the gentleman who had before noticed him and who was Lord of the Manor approached with the parson of the parish The little groupe gave way each making a bow or curtsy all eager to catch the eye of the squire who graciously nodded to them but pointing to Joe enquired who the little boy in the patched coat belonged to Poor Joe once more looked at the brown patch nor was he the only one who did so He is the son of Farmer Hastings replied the parson one of the best children in the village and well worthy so good a father Farmer Hastings repeated the gentleman I remember him well but I fear from the appearance of his son times are not so well with him as heretofore The rector assented to this and as they walked through the church yard gave a slight detail of the honest farmers misfortunes Joe heard enough to make him proud of his father and regardless of his patched coat On reaching the turnstile Joe was about to proceed his usual way when Mr Martin the rector called him back and presented him by name to the Squire My good little fellow said the latter 1 have taken a great liking to patched coat of yours which I am told is worn by an excellent boy you however may little fellow I tare taken a to that patched coat of yours I am told is an excellent joy not be so partial to it so take this he added putting a banknote in his hand and let me see you next Sun day in a new one but retaining your present good character Hardly could Joe believe his senses as he viewed his newlygotten trea sure His thanks were warm but brief for every moment seemed an hour until he had imparted his good fortune to those he so dearly loved In vain James Evans and many others shouted after him to learn what the gentleman had given smiles and nods were his only answers Swift as the wind he crossed the fields and reached home just as Martha was taking the pudding out of the pot Just in time my boy said his father here is your favourite pud ding all smoking and ready for you u O I cant eat pu tiding or anything else just now returned Joe panting see father see Martha and all of ye see what the squire has just given me because my coat was patched with brown Joe then related particulars clear as his agitated spirits would allow produced his One Pound Note and kissing Martha declared he liked her mended coats better than new ones The farmer smiling congratulated him on his good luck and observed that a fair name was better than fine clothes as the event of the morning had proved Joe could eat little dinner for talk ing of the squire and his new coat until perceiving his father unusually thoughtful he forgot all his fine projects and enquired with real anxiety what he was thinking about I will tell you my dear replied he during the time you were at church neighbour Simms called to tell me that a great doctor was come to Ludlow famous for curing the deaf and dumb now I have more than once been told that our sweet Fanny might be cured if I had proper ad vice Well father interrupted Joe and you will now surely oh what luck that would be It would Joe be the greatest happiness of my life but then Ludlow is thirty six miles off and the ex pence of such a journey is more than 1 am worth in the world Joes color rose to crimson joy sparkled in his blue eye he clasped his hands in ecstasv Oh father my money my banknote would per haps Yes child that is what I am thinking of but then Joe the new coat for next Sunday and that old one with the ugly brown patch my boy But exclaimed Joe in tearful rapture my own Fanny to hear and speak to call me her dear brother to hear me tell her how much 1 love her understand all I could say to her ah father it would be too much Here overcome by his feelings Joe hid his face on his fathers shoulder and wept aloud The good farmer while he pressed him to his heart gave loose to similar feelings and poor Fanny the unconscious cause of them ran to share the grief she witnessed without knowing why Joe raised his head looked in her intelligent face and almost fancied her cure already began In the most affectionate manner she took his hand and in a kind of mournful tone en deavoured to console him Joe put his arms round her neck kissed her again and again uttering a thousand expressions of pleasure she smiled to observe though she understood him not When will you set off father enquired Joe Tomorrow morning by the heavy coach if the passengers be not too many it will pass here about five oclock and I doubt not we shall all be up early enough to secure a seat on the top for my poor girl and myself I dont think I shall so to bed to night said Joe for perhaps we might oversleep ourselves and really I feel too happy to sleep much nov but I might set heavy towards morning Never fear returned his father we shall all be up in time and I advise you to go to bed earlier than usual instead of sitting up all night for you will have more to do tomorrow on account of my absence Joe readily agreed to change his plan and retired soon after sunset happy as virtue and innocence could make him My readers will not be surprised to learn he was the first stirring in the cottage on the morrow helped Martha to prepare breakfast cleaned Fannys Sunday shoes and without being told ran half a mile to borrow dame Hudsons big shawl to wrap round his darling lest the dew should give her cold for it was early in April The farmer witnessed these affectionate attentions with a pleasure none but parents can feel and as he placed the banknote in an old leather purse prayed Heaven to bless his generous and dutiful boy Martha her two youngest brothers nd Joe walked to the end of the lane to see the travellers depart Joe continued kissing his hand while the coach was in sight his heart beat strong with hope though Martha more than once suggested the probability of their being disappointed Joe had double work to do on this day vet notwithstanding his constant occupation the time hung heavy and he longed for night to forget in sleep the doubts and fears to which suspence had given birth He had at first imagined that a single day would perfect Fannys cure and when un deceived by Martha experienced sad mortification he learnt with dismay that should the doctor even prove successful weeks months nay years might elapse ere their wishes were realized It is a very long while to wait for such happiness said he but come when it may it will be the joy of my life On the following day at noon the good man returned with his charge Joe was hard at work when he heard the distant sound of coach wheels throwing down the spade with which he had been digging the field he hastened up the lane shouting to Martha all the way The moment he discovered the dear objects of his search he stopped and fixed his eves on the countenance of his father the expression of which could not be mistaken all is right thought Joe while his heart palpitated as if it would burst through his breast Fanny looked pale from fatigue but her cheeks reddened with delight when she perceived who came to meet her His clamorous joy had brought the rest of tiic family to the garden and pushed forward to hear the first news but Joe suggested their assembling round the dinner table before his father began the interesting detail for Fanny had already warned him of her hunger The meal was speedily concluded and their delighted parent then in formed them that the doctor was of opinion she would recover both her hearing and speech but time only could evince the wished for success and the distance from Ludlow was too oreat to allow of so constant an attendance as was necessary I have no more pound notes I sighed Joe I wish the Squire had given two instead of one u Then you would have had a new coat into the bargain observed Martha looking significantly A new coat answered Joe somewhat indismantlv No l am not so selfish as to wish for more money oa that account I meant it would have paid fathers journey another time and two trials must be better than one Martha taking him affectionately by the hand owned her belief of his good intentions and told him if he would assist her in spinning during the next week she doubted not earn ing sufficient for a second journey Three weeks passed away in anxious expectation Farmer Hastings had been several times to Ludlow little Fanny underwent an operation which produced a slight sense of hearing and the joy of the whole family was sincere as ardent On the fourth Sunday Joe went to church in his old jacket a second patch was no improvement to its appearance but he saw not its defects he only remembered it had been the means of sending Fanny to Ludlow and moreover she had given proofs of hearing the church bells that morn ing their sound now seemed the sweetest music to his ears his spi rits became elated as he listened to them lie was stripping a bunch of May from the hedge to place in his breast when he heard his name pronounced in a tone of surprise he raised his head and beheld the squire his eyes steadily fixed on his party coloured jacket Joe instantly understood his thoughts but had not the immediate power of speaking his eye fell on the same object and glanced from the patch to the squire alternately His confused manner and blushing cheeks gave the squire an idea that all was not right and he rather abruptly enquired why he again saw him in his old coat Because sir because I thought it best kindest to spend your money an something else that 1 could not help wanting much more than a nev coat I think you could not want any thing so necessary returned the squire you have a good father who feeds and maintains you and I hope you are too good a boy to throw away such a sum on trifles or in purchasing anything without your fathers know ledge O no indeed sir that would be very wicked I have certainly spent the note you were so kind as to give me but I am sure that is I think you would not say I had done wrong if you knew all Well then tell me all I am in clined to think well of you from your seeming good conduct and the good character parson Martin gives but I do not like concealment if the money has been disposed of properly you need not be ashamed to own the manner of laying it out So Joe thought but his natural modesty made him averse to disclosing an action in which he was the prin cipal person concerned and in pro portion as the squire pressed for an explanation his reluctance increased at length he stammered out the truth attributing the whole to his fathers suggestion but his gratified auditor readily understood the merit of the action was entirely his own and be stowed the warmest commendations on his dutiful conduct he added I shall call on your father this even ing and talk to him on the subject The naturally sanguine disposition of our rustic hero attached much good fortune to this promised visit and he hastened to impart his hopes to his parent and sister Joe thought evening would never arrive it did however and with it came the squire and his lady The neatness so evident in the farmers cottage and family made a most favourable impression upon his guests who condescendingly noticed all they saw and enquired minutely into their tenants affairs The squire heard with real pleasure a confirmation of Joes good qualities and at the con clusion of the fathers recital of his generous offer of the banknote took him by the hand and promised to be friend him through life Then perhaps exclaimed Joe joyfully I shall be able to earn enough to get dear Fanny quite cured 51 t We shall not wait your future exertions my worthy boy answered the squire Fanny has found a more able though not a better friend in this lady who has come here purposely to offer her services on her account solelv Yes said the lady smiling and drawing the interesting little girl to wards her I mean to take your favourite under my particular care I shall send her to Ludlow at my own expense to reside with Doctor Alason who has several other unfortunate children under his care and 1 doubt not from your fathers favourable re port she will return as well as we could hope her to be Poor Joe could only turn up his hands and eyes in wonder at such goodness while his father and Martha returned more audible thanks A small but compact farm was of fered tdiMicr Hastings at a rent not exceeding his present humble one and the squires lady assured Martha she would furnish her with many com forts and necessaries for housekeep ing such as they had been deprived of from change of fortune They at length quitted the cottage overwhelmed with the gratitude of its worthy inhabitants whose coming prosperity soon spread through the village to the mutual pleasure of all for farmer Hastings w as universally respected and beloved In the course of the following week little Fanny was completely equipped for her new residence The parting between her and Joe was truly affect ing though the latter convinced of its necessity endeavoured to suppress his feelings and to make her comprehend it was for the best Never had Joe shed so many tears as on the morning of her departure it seemed he lost halt himself in losing his dar ling and the poor little girl suffered still more from her ignorance of all which occasioned the separation As the summer advanced happiness once more beamed upon this worthy family They had removed to the new farm the bountiful hand of their landlord rendered every thing complete Marthas dairy and Joes garden were the admiration of the village every Saturday Joe was al lowed to accompany the squires housekeeper in a chaise cart to Ludlow and had the inexpressible pleasure of seeing his sister who rapidly recovered under the skilful management of Doctor Mason This weekly holiday was procured by extra labour on other days but the toil was a pleasure to our tenderhearted Joe As he had been the chief object of her love in the days of affliction he became the dearest one as she gained sense and power of expressing the same Every month he had some instance to relate of her improvement in speech and when she first addressed him though imperfectly as dear Joe his heart seemed too full of delight to be borne and he threw himself on her bosom in an agony of joy As he reached the farm on this memorable evening he exclaimed Oh my dear father oh Martha she said would you believe it she said Here his throat swelled and he could say no more Who do you mean my child M asked his father noticing his agitation with anxiety Mean why I mean Fanny our Fanny my own Fanny yes dear father she spoke to me called me dear Joe such sweet words I never heard in my life they have sounded in my ears all the way home every tree every bush seemed to repeat dear Joe I shall never think of any other words as long as I live es my dear boy you must think of and repeat other words words of grateful praise to the Merciful Power who has restored our dear Fanny and loaded us with benefits nor let us forget his agents in the good work whose charity guided by His AilPowerful Hand has brought things to this happy conclusion O I shall never forget them or their goodness returned the tearful boy and as to thanking God for all he has done for us I think it would be almost impossible for he sends new happiness every day but indeed I do think of him and say my prayers with all rny heart because i always fancy he is listening to me and it makes my heart feel light especially when I have been to see clear Fanny and find her better for I am sure it must be His Power that makes her so I believe you my child said far mer Hastings and may His Good ness ever inspire you with the same confidence 1 Autumn passed laboriously but happily every thing prospered all their efforts succeeded but Winter was destined to complete their felicity little Fanny came to spend a fortnight at the farm remembered each individual and the scene of her early ha bits called her brothers and sister by name heard most of what was said to her and listened with rapture to Joes attempt to entertain her with his fife which the squires butler had given him Joe was half wild with pleasure he escorted her throughout the lae busied himself in forming new plans of amusement and read him self hoarse to divert her with Little Red RidingHood MotherGoose and every book he possessed or could borrow from his young companions Joe had long since owned a new coat likewise a jacket for days of labour but he yet retained the patched one which he esteemed a relic and termed it the lucky jae ket On the day of Fannys return the jubilee of his life he appeared in the patched garb at dinner On Marthas joking him he observed No matter I would not affront my brown patch by letting it lie un noticed in the old chest on such a day as this when I remember that all our good fortune comes from its colour Ah Martha I dont forgot old friends and although 1 certainly like to wear my new coat best and go to church like other boys of the village yet I have a great respect for this workmanship of yours Blue jackets and brown patches for ever blue jackets and brown patches for ever repeated the laughing Fanny not quite perfect indeed but intelligibly enough to be understood by all I will wear this dear patch all the rest of my life sobbed Joe as he kissed her round blushing cheek Wear the same heart my noble boy said his father and you must be happy Thus ends my story said Susan closing the book and I hope it has entertained you very much indeed returned Charles 1 am quite delighted with Joe and as to poor little Fanny do you know I could not help crying when you described her misfortunes My eyes dont feel quite right observed Susan but I believe you are as much the cause as poor Fanny for while I read of Joes affectionate conduct towards her I could not but fancy that you would just behave as kind to me had I been as unfortunate as the poor little girl Charles felt she did him but justice and squeezed her hand grate fully as she patted his pale cheek In a few minutes subsequent Su sans patient was slumbering and our butterfly concluding the careful nurse would remain too quiet to afford him further entertainment set off in quest of new adventures In making a sudden turn to the left he found himself in a much busier scene than any he had hitherto witnessed it was a country town and the bustle of business and clamour of tongues overwhelmed him with surprise and confusion The shops were gay and every countenance looked cheerful yet however amusing the novel spectacle to our winged traveller he beheld no promise of sustenance but one source met his view and that was a honey suckle creeping round the doorframe of a dirty shop and so discoloured by dust that he felt his appetite must be keen indeed ere he could venture on such food The glowing colours of some ribbons in a haberdashers window 7 attracted him but alas they were articles only pleasing to the eye The next shop was a pastry cooks and decorated in a most tempting style few juvenile observers could have viewed it without a wish for some of its contents but children and butterflies differ in point of taste custards jellies and cakes had no charms for our butterfly who flew from house to house street to street in search of the beauties of nature A row of small houses with flower gardens in front presented a more pleasing prospect and he determined to avail himself of the opportunity There was no great variety but rose trees were not wanting and he quickly selected the most blooming At the moment of his choice a mischievous boy who was passing through the garden with a basket containing eggs and butter perceived his manoeuvre and threw his hat with so good an aim that the rose taster fell direct to the earth and was taken prisoner without a struggle Held by the wing he was carried to a shop in the town where the urchin placed him on the counter and began to amuse himself by roughly checking his progress whenever renovated strength permitted him to crawl He continued this employment in spite of his masters repeated orders to go on a second errand and at length roused his employer to give him a smart rap on the head Insensible as he was to the sufferings of the poor insect in his power he was perfectly alive to his own and quickly retreated from a second blow leaving his victim at liberty but half dead from fright and illusage The shopkeeper discovering the cause of the boys negligence brush ed it hastily from the counter and with a force that sent it into the street This new shock had nearly proved our persecuted heros last he just retained strength enough to creep to the wall where sheltered from the foot of the passing passenger he slowly recovered in a decree but his wing had received too much injury for present flight and he felt all the horrors of approaching annihilation but fate had other evils in store and shortly after he was raised gently by a soft careful hand while a still softer voice uttered exclamations of real feeling for his unfortunate situation The fair speaker was one of a large party forming a young ladies 1 school and with a companion being the last of the train had leisure to rescue the poor butterfly exposed to the danger of being crushed by some heedless footstep After a short walk they stopped at a large house at the extremity of the town and our butterfly was taken into the schoolroom and exhibited to the youthful circle by his new mistress who suffered not a finger to touch her prize whose weakness she observed but too plainly shewed how harshly he had been used e What will you do with it asked one Set it at liberty when it is strong enough to fly returned she 1 am sorry evening is so fast advancing had it been earlier I would have at tempted to copy its pretty form and bright colors ibr I never remember to have seen so beautiful a butterfly Well cannot you put it in a box until tomorrow morning saki Harriet Jones no harm could hap pen to it there and I really think it would make a pretty drawing and you are so clever at mixing your colors and laying them on smoothly I am sure you would succeed in this But how cruel it would be Harriet to confine the poor thing in L close box a whole night for the chaiKJ or copying it tomorrow and I ai sure a very poor chance it would he for I doubt if it will survive hours if any thing can save it air and freedom will and I should be sorry to deprive it of the only re medy What a fuss about a butterfly cried a new voice Jones is right I would put it into a box if it is past recovery there can be no cruelty in confining it The butterfly owner turned with quickness to the last speaker and addressing her in a tone of feeling said When your father was so se verely wounded in battle think what would have been his fate had those around him shut him up in a close room without the benefit of air or necessary assistance he must in that case have died I have heard him tell papa how the freshness of the breeze and warmth of the sun contributed to his recovery and yet you knowing this would unthinkingly deprive a living creature of both be cause it cannot tell you how necessary they are to its existence Miss Simpson blushed and looked a little angry for she valued Lucys good opinion and felt that there was truth in what she said But there was a great difference she observed in killing a soldier and a butterfly 5 Certainly replied Lucy and I would rather a thousand of the handsomest were destroyed than a single human being but I dont see why we should shorten the life of any thing God has created nor would you I am assured give pain to a living creature if you took time to reflect Miss Simpson stammered out a kind of apology for what she had said but it was evident she was more mortified by her friends rebuke than sorry for her own want of humanity Not so the rest of her companions who were unanimous in advising Lucy to give the butterfly its liberty add ing she always acted for the best To the best of my weak judgment you mean returned the blush ing girl What are you saying to Miss Saville that occasions her to blush so much enquired the governess advancing to the gathering circle Only giving her due praise ma dam answered one and of course speaking the truth That is a handsome compliment my dear returned the smiling preceptress and must be as grateful to my young friend as it is honorable in you to acknowledge her merits but may 1 ask what was the circumstance which gave rise to your eulogium Here Lucy stepped forward with her butterfly fearful lest her partial fiierods should mention Miss Simpson in an unfavorable manner and sim ply related the cause of her school fellows approbation It was but a simple act of humanity madam and I really do not feel deserving the praise bestowed You could not do other than what you have done replied her go verness and with you I think it is not an extraordinary act of humanity but my love it is the remembrance of your usual good conduct which this circumstance brought to recollection that excited the commendation of your friend Martha and you now feel the pleasing consequences of being uni formly kind and humane Lucy blushed and was silent her companions thought they never saw her look so pretty for she possessed little of personal beauty Mrs Bedford seated herself and the delighted girls gathered round her Humanity she continued is so natural a feeling and so constantly brings its own reward it seems strange that an v human being should resist its call Few I believe are entirely void of it but we often confine our sympathy to the sufferings of the human species alone this is certainly selfish for while we sympathize with our fellow creatures we in a great measure lament the psin we are liable to experience ourselves The brute creation are entitled to our pity and forbearance in a particular degree for they want intellect to discern danger and are even in our power and consequently at our mercy I never knew a cruel child make an amiable man or woman To hurt a dumb animal or crush an inoffensive insect betrays cowardice as well as cruelty because the perpetrator knows the victim cannot contend with the ingenuity of man You may remember my dear Miss Simp son the postboy who beat his horses so severely the day you returned to school I then felt assured inhuma nity was not his only failing and have since learned that from his repeated illusage of his masters horses he was discharged want of character prevented his entering a new service idleness led him into bad society and he is now in the county gaol for rob bing a shop in this town His friends are to be pitied for they are honest and laborious people but you or I can feel little pity ior him when we recollect his savage treatment of the poor fatigued animal who had travelled so far for his and your convenience Miss Simpson readily assented to tliis though she cast her eyes fearfully around to observe if her companions were making comparisons several eyes were turned towards her but quickly withdrawn when they noticed her confusion Mrs Bedford went on You must all notice the particular confidence I repose in Hannah the servant who attends YOU while at meals and when sick I do not however believe that the v hole of my young friends are acquainted with the circumstances which first gave me a knowledge of her She is the daughter of a poor but worthy cottager in the neighbouring village and from infancy inclined to habits of industry and docility That her heart is tender and affectionate 1 imagine I need not add for many present have experienced her kind attentions in sick ness Yes Yes exclaimed several voices together she is indeed a tenderhearted nurse as we can prove Well my dears this kindness of nature extended to every thing living that was not hurtful to mankind and few little girls treated dumb animals better than Hannah Bennett She was nearly eleven years old when coming into the town one morning to dispose of her mothers knitting she saw some boys engaged in earnest conversation near a pond they appeared to be examining something and curiosity led her to cross the road to discover the object of their attention Her feeling heart recoiled on perceiving it was a poor frog whose death they were planning with every species of cruelty she pleaded strongly for its release but they laughed at her humanity for a frog and desired more she quitted the admiring circle and with more philosophy than might be expected from so youthful a heroine set forward on her journey She stopped but once more and that was to spend the shopkeepers halfpenny in liquorice for her grand mothers cough In passing the church she noticed with pleasure that only half an hour had elapsed since she quitted the boys and she Mattered herself it could not be too late Her hopes somewhat diminished as she drew near the pond and saw no one in sight it might be however they were in the adjoining field and she hastened to where there was a gap in the hedge to ascertain if it were so but alas no boys were there She approached the pond and with horror discovered the man led remains of a frog which she felt convinced was the poor victim she had wished to pre serve Indignation pity and self reproach combined to overwhelm her with regret and she burst into a violent flood of tears The remainder of her journey was slowly performed she accused herself of inhumanity and sincerely regretted she had been tempted to stop for the foolish grotto Within a few yards of home she overtook one of the hardhearted party and reproached him for his conduct I cant help it replied he I wanted them to wait for your penny but they all agreed you were only joking and would not be so foolish as to give a penny for the sake of an ugly frog Why you were not out of sight when they killed it Hannah turned from him in dis gust but felt relieved in learning her dilatoriness had not accelerated the cruel deed She was now a penny the richer but her wealth gave her no pleasure and although the showman passed through the village on the succeeding clay she experienced not the slightest inclination to peep at the grotto on the contrary it only awakened fresh regret Her luckless penny was be stowed upon a poor blind man and her heart felt lighter when it was gone Hannahs grandfather who occasionally worked in my garden told the story to one of the servants and in course of time it reached my ears I was pleased with the childs character and requested to see her Still more was I won by her modest recital and ingenuous condemnation of her self I immediately took her into the house had her instructed in useful knowledge for her situation in life and she has ever since remained with me and is at this time a pattern of domestic fidelity and a treasure to my establishment I was convinced a heart so good might be trained to the best principles and the trial has more than fulfilled my hope This morning she informed me of a circumstance that shocked though it did not surprise me one of the frog tormentors was no other than the unfeeling postboy we were speaking of just now Her youthful auditors listened with the greatest interest and attention and while they did justice to the me rits of Hannah Bennett expressed their abhorrence of the post boys character But where is vour beautiful but terfly Miss Saville exclaimed a little girl perceiving it was no longer on the table Gone I protest answered Lucy looking round the room no matter it must have recovered its strength wonderfully to have flown away I rejoice the poor thing re vived it was not my intention to keep it a moment longer than its weakness required He was too proud to be nursed by me and all mv good intentions are now vain Our butterfly however was not so far oft as Lucy imagined he had certainly regained his strength in a greater degree than might be expected but was yet too weak to fly and had only crawled to one of the windows on whose sill he rested while Mrs Bedford related Hannah Bennetts history In a few r minutes subsequent the good lady bade her pupils adieu for the night their respectful affection towards her bespoke how much she was beloved and our flighty traveller was half inclined to tarry a little longer with this amiable family but it is the nature of butterflies to rove and the ensuing breeze helped to expand his wings he made an effort and reached a bed of mignionette growing beneath the window here he was joined by a grave looking brown and yellow insect whose external appearance was not particularly striking but there was much courtesy in his manner and the two strangers quickly entered into conversation My friend said the yellow butterfly you appear to be in a weak state is it from natural infirmity or from recent misfortune Alas returned our hero my weakness arises from the cruelty of Ill the human race and not from any affliction of nature I have but just escaped the most barbarous treatment and it is only by the most un expected kindness of a young lady that I am so far recovered as you see me Well replied the other you see the wisdom and kindness of Providence who sent you a benefactor in one of the same species as your persecutor I should imagine he continued that your adventures have not been of a common description butterflies of your colour and form are highly estimated your beauty must have attracted mankind very often and this sort of admiration must have led you into danger and circumstances highly interesting true you are young but I doubt not have witnessed more of the world than many double your age Why to speak the truth answered the flattered beau I have seen a little of life but my knowledge is rather confined for I have moved in a limited sphere I am not more than three miles from my native home a garden so humble you would smile to see its produce at the same time experience has fatally convinced me that neither wealth nor luxury can insure happiness In the course of this day I have revelled among the finest flowers have sported round beautiful china vases and contemplated my own form in mirrors of magnificent structure but my enjoyments were not perfect constant and fearful interruptions destroyed the pleasure within my grasp and I have sutiered a martyrdom in escaping the mischievous and inhuman pranks of children more than ever 1 now regret leaving the peaceful spot that gave me birth the humble cot tage of my first friends was a complete sanctuary and the natural good ness of its youthful inhabitants would never have subjected me to personal danger It is a common fault observed his new acquaintance not to estimate true happiness until it is out of our reach I regret one so young as yourself should find the truth thus early I must acknowledge my curiosity is not a little raised to learn the nature of your perambulations and if the relation be not too painful I would solicit to hear them i am afraid you will be disappointed returned our adventurer but I feel no hesitation in complying He then related the history with which our readers are already acquainted and received the thanks of his hearer for what he was pleased to term an interesting detail Perhaps said the narrator you would oblige me with a similar ac count your knowledge of the world seem infinitely superior to mine and from our age I should judge you must have much more to recount My life has been pretty well chequered answered the stranger but I doubt if its incidents would afford much entertainment as you may perceive my beauty is not very remarkable 1 belong to a common tribe and of course have never attracted the notice of your peacocks eve folks at the same time I am aware this want of personal charms has proved a blessing to me in many instances Children are usually attracted by shewy objects my dull colours have often passed unheeded where your brilliant ones would have invited a chase To tell you every event of inv existence would give ou very little satisfaction my connections are very different from yours I can boast little or ancestry the head of our family was of the skull tribe and you may suppose not an Adonis however I believe he was a well meaning butterfly and less frivolous than we are said to be in general I received a hurt in one of my wings when in infancy which has greatly retarded my flight ever since and frequently placed me in danger I should not otherwise have encountered once indeed it had liked to have ended fatally I had entered a room on the runner of a honeysuckle that grew over a trellis and so occupied by my pleasure that I did not perceive several young ladies drawing at a table when 1 first made the dis cover I was somewhat alarmed for I was ever afraid of the human race but as they pursued their study very quietly I took courage and by degrees ventured to the edge of a glass in which one of the party occasion ally dipped her camels hair pencil she was painting a group of flowers and imitated nature so well I could not help watching her delicate fingers in admiration while thus employed another young artist twitched me from the glass exclaiming Louisa here is a young gentleman wishes to sit for his likeness cannot you introduce him in your group of roses I dont think he would much im prove the beauty of my drawings answered she smiling for I will do him justice he is the plainest butterfly I ever saw his wings look so mean and his colours so dead Aye poor thing said another and I dare say he is almost dead with fright I am not hurting him I assure you said my keeper I hold him as lightly as possible he would intrude himself as a beau and I wish to mortify his vanity but since Louisa has not taste enough to admire him I will send him adrift immediately yet really I do not think it would be but kind to alter his dress a little and if we cannot make him hand some make him gay at least so saying she took a dip from every colour on her palette and spotted my dead looking yellow jacket as she called it the process was gently performed all the injury I sustained was mortification never was a beau more completely humiliated Her companions laughed most heartily I endeavoured to get away and she instantly released me but my wings were heavy with ray new habiliments and this added to the natural infirmity before mentioned checked my motion materially At length the paint dried I felt lighter and was able to fly you may judge I soon quitted this scene of ridicule and to me vexation I heard the laugh at my expence long after my departure and certainly owed the origin of my disgrace no good will In defiance of the young artists assertion I must assert I never was vain or the least inclined to be a beau yet strange to say I felt a kind of Buttering plea sure when I observed the notice my new dress created among our own species various were the opinions as to my origin Most extraordinary said one What tribe does he belong to asked a second I really cannot say returned the in sect applied to I never beheld any thing like him before Depend upon it observed one of your class he is a foreigner I have heard there are some of us of strange shape and colour in other climates and I declare he is not the least like any of our English butterflies I begin to think he is of French origin you know they are reckoned rather whimsical in their dress and like variety of colours only that I am ashamed to betray my ignorance of the language I would address him Flimsy you must know a little of it born as you were in a garden attached to a French boarding school True but my accent is so indifferent Never mind your accent a truce with conceit go to this singular stranger and address him boldly All this conversation I heard as I rested on a wallflower and must own I never was better entertained I was aware that too close an inspection would betray the real quality of my attire and therefore determined to act accordingly Mr Flimsy flew round and round my resting place several times ere he had courage to open his negociation at length he approached and began Dou venez vous Monsieur I am no French scholar but I just knew enough for my purpose stretching out my wings I answered as I bounced by the astonished ambassador Bon soir Monsieur bon soir Never did I behold a butterfly so disconcerted all his learning fled at once slowly he returned to his expectant friends I did not wait to witness their surprise but taking a different direction was soon out of Our hero laughed heartily at whimsicality of this adventurer and enquired how he lost his painted adornments The worst part of the story is to come replied the other after shewing off in borrowed colours I entered a curious building decorated with various specimens of natural curiosities among the rest was a glass case containing a most beautiful collection of our kind golden wings with variegated borders peacocks eyes of wonderful brightness though I as sure you 1 do not flatter when 1 assert you are one of the rarest of your kind Here our butterfly of course made his bow I stood looking at the interesting spectacle and not a little amused by my own grotesque appearance which the lid of the case reflected when raising my eyes I beheld a thin bent little old gentleman pale as that lily his features were harsh and disagree able his dress had once been fine but then wore a tarnished and shabby hue his large wig nearly reached to his nose on which was placed huge spectacles through them he was steadily gazing at something in what I afterwards learned was a micros cope So extraordinary a figure I had ne ver seen and I could not help indulging myself with a survey of his per son No doubt you have guessed his pursuits and his title he was a rr tuoso to us a dreadful name When the trutlr presented itself to my imagination I instantly determined to re treat but alas it was too late he had already discovered me but so cautiously did he set about securing me that I Was perfectly unconscious of his purpose until I felt the excruciating torture of a silver pin through my lame wing which fixed me to the frame of the glass case He raised and wiped his spectacles a dozen times ere he inspected me smiling with the most malignant joy as he viewed my painful struggles e Bless me bless me what a treasure have I found all my years of travel and vast sums expended never procured its equal Here is every color of the rainbow combined wonderful phenomenon of nature Well now I would not give my collection for any other in Europe My Lord Moth head will he quite astonished when he sees this curious insect Really I have a great mind yes I think nay I positively will offer this to the British Museum I shall make my fortune no sum would be too much for such a unique HP then examined me anew and Repeated his admiration in terms so extravagant that had I not been suffering the most torturing agony I must have laughed at his folly I verily believe he thought himself the most fortunate of the human race Little did the merry girl who thus embellished my external appearance imagine the distress her freak had brought on me The delighted virtuoso was interrupted in the height of enthusiasm by a person equally remarkable with him self though in a different way His figure was immensely tall and thin his face the longest I remember to have seen his coat was evidently a castoff one of his masters for he was an assistant and kind of secretary to the old gentleman and of course the habit of a little man could not suit a very tall one the sleeves did not reach to his wrist by some inches and the collar corresponded with the sleeves he carried a small board on which were fastened a number of beetles he had been polishing Come hither Nathaniel Lap wing cried the master here is a sight you could never have hoped to see such a butterfly man such a natural curiosity that I am almost wild with joy when I reflect I am the happy naturalist to whose lot it has fallen Curious indeed replied Nathaniel it is of a garb 1 never beheld what does your honour mean to do with it Aye my friend that is the question I am rather undecided how to act whether to keep it for my own rare collection or present it to the President of the British Museum I might surely ask a handsome price for it So it should seem returned the other drily but you may remember they did not receive your offer of the wonderful cockleshell to your liking and pronounced it a common shell although you declared it was found on the shores of the Gold Coast in Africa i Yes yes I know that I remember that very well Nathaniel not that they doubted my judgment even then but anybody might be mistaken in a cockleshell as young the managers of the Museum were but I defy all the learned and the greatest naturalists in Europe to disavow their belief of this insect being a real curiosity Here are wings Nathaniel blue red yellow stars spots in short all that can astonish and gratify the eye of taste Nathaniel agreed to this and added the wings were entirely different This pointing to the pinioned one has but three spots the other has four nay five As he spoke he touched the admired spot with the end of his finger when behold the chief part of the fine red came away on his nail He stood aghast then touched it a second time and in so doing removed the whole of the color Why what is this exclaimed he in dis may can it be possible that all these fine tints are put on Put on repeated the virtuoso no no it is impossible let me see let me try He did so and the imposition was too palpable to admit of a doubt His rage now equalled his late admiration and he vowed vengeance against me and those who had played the trick for he fully believed it was done to deceive him alone Nathaniel experienced much of his masters mortification but he possessed more humanity for he instantly released me and blew me off his hand into the garden You may conceive my feelings on this unexpected deliverance I felt grateful to the man while I despised his master and sincerely prayed I might never again come within sight of a virtuoso The cause of my calamity had nearly disappeared from the rough experiments of Nathaniel and I took care to rub myself well among the dewy grass so that the remainder of my painted finery was soon effaced Not so my poor wing the in jury it had received has never been entirely remedied and I am at this lime I believe the worst aeronaut among our species This incident my friend is an excellent lesson to the vain and if ever I had been of the number could not fail of making due impression 44 Jt is indeed a lesson returned our peacock butterfly and one that I feel particularly for I must con fess beauty has ever possessed too much of my consideration and I have brought myself into more than one dilemma through this same weak feeling It shows your good sense to ac knowledge it said his new friend and I only wish all our race were as sensible of their errors We are generally remarked for conceit and I am afraid with truth enough but I trust there are some exceptions I envy you your discernment observed the other you see every thing in its proper point of view it is doubly hard you should have suffered for wearing the semblance of attraction when you were wise enough to be happy without the reality 1 Perhaps so but I assure you I am not so faultless as you imagine If I have disregarded appearance I have thought too much of my appetite or to speak more plainly I have been a complete epicure for it was not the quantity so much as the quality of the food that I considered and I have frequently turned in disgust from what I now blush to think did not perfectly satisfy me Nothing like experience my friend I now enjoy the humblest food far more than ever I did the rarities once so coveted I shall never forget my first meal on a potato blossom You smile and no doubt think little of my taste but I positively affirm it is a delicious food Like you I once held it cheap but meeting with a butterfly of Irish extraction he undeceived me it certainly required some persuasion to induce a trial on my part but I was amply repaid by making it I had one morning over feasted myself on a sunflower and like epicures of greater magnitude felt dis agreeable consequences and loathed all food during that day The sight of luxury disgusted me and I quitted a rich flower garden to wander through dusty roads and grass worn fields became drowsy arid indulged myself with a nap On awaking I found my appetite reviving and looked sharp around to discover if food was at hand The prospect was barren indeed and 1 was regretting my precipitancy in quitting the comforts of my mornings residence when a stranger butterfly accosted me There was a civility and agreeableness in his manner which invited confidence and I readily returned his salutation He told me his parents were natives of Hibernia and that he entertained a great respect for their country from his knowledge of their worth he did not account for their coming to this country which circumstance I own surprised me for I could not conceive how they travelled knowing there is a vast extent of water between Ireland and England however curiosity is not one of my failings consequently I did not enquire too minutely into his family affairs He had seen much of the world and had been by no means an idle spectator of its scenes His observations were remarkably shrewd and I really enjoyed his society the anecdotes he related would form a very amusing history I suggested this to him and advised him to publish his adventures And who would read the adventures of a butterfly answered he no no mankind have too many trifling pursuits of their own to be interested in those of a wandering in sect Bless you my friend this is the age for scribbling and if a roar but take a walk in his own grounds he sits down to write a foreign tour performed at home I smiled at this account of the human race for I had never made such deep observations lie noticed my weakness and enquired the cause I was ashamed to confess the source of my indisposition and merely said I had been ill from indigestion but was just then suffering from hunger We will soon get rid of the latter complaint answered he laughing just cross the road with me I will en sure you a treat for an emperor You may suppose I did not hesitate to accept this invitation but judge my surprise when I found the blossom of his country fruit was to be the royal food He saw my astonishment but was not at all offended on the contrary I could perceive he enjoyed my embarrassment he flew merrily from a blossom to blossom humming a lively air which he called Shamrock for ever I was a little mortified by this indifference and inclined to scorn the vulgar feast but whether it was shame hunger his good humour or all combined I know not certain it is I changed my mind and never was more satisfied with a meal before or since From that time I lost mv relish for luxuries and soon acquired a rational and humble appetite I shall ever retain a grateful remembrance of my shamrock friend as I now call him for I may thank bin for many a pleasant unmolested meal and better health than I enjoyed previous to our meeting We afterwards journeyed together several minutes during which I heard several curious particulars respecting his family his father was remarkable for the beauty of his form and colours a distinction that cost him his life he now adorns a celebrated noblemans collection in Lon don His mother met a melancholy end likewise she was skimming the surface of a bowl of milk when her feet sank in too deep to be extricated and the fair Hibernian was drowned It is rather a singular circumstance that the lady butterflys grandmother N lost her life in a similar way viz in a bowl of buttermilk Had you heard the feeling and interesting manner in which he re counted these sad events you would have felt the most lively sensibility I really never sympathized with any one out of my own connexion so sincerely But I remember while he was on the subject our ears were at tacked by the most extraordinary and alarming sounds I fluttered every limb He listened awhile and then jocosely said it was only the voices of some Irish labourers returning from work I was glad to find it was no worse but could not divest myself of alarm any thing so harsh 1 never heard He said the language was expressive but to me it was past expression I was a stranger even to the brogue He understood much of what they said and followed to hear more I loitered behind in the hope of his return for I felt a great desire to be better acquainted But all my wishes died away on perceiving the old virtuoso leaning on Nathaniel turn the corner of the lane within a few yards of me Horror seized my every nerve and I exerted my strength to the utmost to get to a distance not daring to look behind until compelled to stop from weakness I then dis covered my enemy at too great a distance to allow of fear and began to lament the separation from my entertaining acquaintance whom I regret to say I never saw more I some times fear he might fall into the hands of my cruel enemy for his appearance was certainly much in his favor but it is lo be hoped my fears are un founded and that he is now enjoying the benefit of his good qualities and lively disposition I am not very gaily inclined and do not covet much society but it is pleasant now and then to meet a kindred mind such as yours and Shamrocks I feel obliged by the compliment returned our hero and must beg leave to say the pleasure is chiefly mine for until I met you I never knew the sweets of friendship reciprocal communication is certainly one of the sweetest delights of life You are right such communications are a treat but how surfeiting the commonplace conversations of butterflies in general I remember in an excursion I once made meeting a troop of our species on a tour of pleasure as they termed it nothing would satisfy them but my joining the party 1 did so reluctantly want ing courage to repress their urgent 5 entreaties They were most of them of your kind and certainly made a dashing appearance I was rather surprised my plain person should have attracted the notice of such gay folks but I soon discerned that it was my homely figure that produced the invitation two or three fancied themselves wits and were determined to divert them at my expense However mortified I might feel in making this discovery I had prudence enough to conceal my feelings One enquired if shabby brown and dingy yellow were the most fashionable colors to which another replied there had certainly been an attempt to make them so but it had failed and the offended class were about to emigrate to some newly discovered island where the sun never shined and where the dimness of their charms would not be so easily discerned This specimen of butterfly with greatly charmed the party who one and all joined in the laugh begging I would not control my merriment out of good breed ing To this I answered I could not enter into the joke because I did not believe the report I was myself one of the tribe described and so far from being fashionists we always laughed at the ridiculous figure other classes made in endeavouring to ape mankind What classes do you mean asked a pert beau More than one replied I but I leave it to your own conscience whether yours be included in the number He looked a little abashed and indeed they all seemed the graver for my retort but vanity is not easily quelled though it may be often checked We entered a beautiful garden belonging to a lady of high rank who with some friends was enjoying the fragrance of the various gifts of Flora Some of our youthful companions were desirous of showing off on this occasion and quitting the party advanced towards the great folks before whom they ew to and fro in all the pride of conscious beauty Their gratification however was short the charms they prized drew the attention they desired but the re sult was not of so pleasing a nature Two young gentlemen commenced a chance after our stragglers they were not novices at the game for they soon caught and destroyed four of the fairest You may imagine the effect such a scene caused in the survivor who quickly left the hateful place in distress of mind that erased all my for mer contempt but I had no desire to continue the association and took the first opportunity of changing my quarters Except in this one adventure I never mixed with butterflies of rank nor can I say a desire for high life was the consequence Observe I do not wish to treat the great with disrespect but I own I look for something more than ancestry where I wish to esteem And you are right my friend re plied our hero for myself I knew not the value of aw own descent until I heard the remarks of some strangers I met this morning Nor can I say the knowledge of it has increased my happiness for it created a vanity I never should have felt but for the injudicious admiration I cannot ex press how much I am bettered by your good sense and just observations how I wish we might pass the remainder of life together I really feel we were born for friends I see no possible objection to your wishes said the yellow butterfly nay I am assured we shall both be hap pier by joining society and while we enjoy ourselves be enabled to assist the young and giddy by warning them of evils we have escaped and teaching them how to profit by our example Agreed returned the other from this time let one common fate unite us and let our interests and pursuits be the same Each flapped his wing three times in token of agreement and the matter was settled Night now drew on apace and as our butterflies were not of that species travel in darkness they retiree to rest the tulip afforded a comfortable shelter where they enjoyed a re pose kings might have envied Our friends were awakened early the ensuing morning by the clamour of many tongues the noise of which rather alarmed them but the subject of these memoirs soon discovered the truth and in the busy group approaching recognized Mrs Bedfords pupils he imparted this to his companion and they both emerged from their couch to observe the pursuits of the juvenile party whose characters were high in the estimation of each from the event of the preceding evening As it will be necessary to distinguish the two butterflies thus united from one another we shall call our own hero by the name the vand brown one bestowed him friend Peacock from the peculiar beauty of his coat as before ob served Peacock pointed out to his friend the amiable Miss Saville and her young advocate They were together and examining every new blown flower with the greatest interest O Lucy exclaimed the young one look at this beautiful moss rose how it is broken who can have done it I hope no one intentionally answered Lucy for we all admired it so much yesterday I should think it impossible any lady would destroy what they so lately prized All in a breath denied having injured the flower but Miss Savilles discernment induced her to suspect the sincerity of one and she proposed asking each separately the supposed aggressor looked a little confused but assuming courage as her turn drew near boldly denied the action Miss Saville fixed her eyes on the countenance of the young Julia and begged her to reflect a little ere she answered in the negative Why so Miss returned the other pertly I can give no other answer and I think it is very spiteful of you to fix it on me No 7 not spiteful cried several voices Lucy is never spiteful I hope not said Miss Saville gently Nor do I think Julia would say so if she was not angry with me However as I have certainly raised suspicion against her I feel in honour bound to give my reason for so doing Well then yesterday when we were quitting the garden Julia wished to pick a nosegay and among other tiouers selected a rose from this tree Now we all know it is a favourite of dear Mrs 13ed fords and I therefore objected to her taking one observing there were plenty of other roses to suit her purpose She was offended with my interference and said if she must not have the moss rose she would have none She swung her bonnet in anger as we left the spot and when I cautioned her as to the mischief she might do she repeated the action with more violence and bade me trouble my head with my own affairs for the rose tree was not mine At that moment the dinner bell rang a second time and as we o were the two last in the garden I was obliged to hurry indoors without CD J ascertaining if she had really hurt any of the flowers We walked into town in the evening therefore we must be certain no one has been here in the mean time The fact spoke for itself and if a doubt had remained the sullen and guilty countenance of the mischievous girl told sufficient to remove it Censure was unanimous but the kind hearted Lucy unwilling to mortify her more than was necessary ex pressed her belief that she was not aware of the consequences when she gave way to her temper the day before Julia caught at this leniency and answered pertly To be sure she was not I would not give much for your regret said the little Mary if you speak in that sharp way 1 This was a new offence to the pet fish girl and she withdrew from the circle in great anger Miss Saville followed and tried to soften her but she would not listen to any advice and fixed herself against the trunk of a walnut tree in obstinate inactivity The spot was near the tulip bed so that our butterflies had full opportunity of observing her con duct The rest of her companions had joined in play at a distance and thither the winged friends would willingly have followed to view their innocent sports but they dreaded ex posing themselves while Julia was in sight her disposition had sufficiently evinced her capability of hurting them if in her power and they therefore carefully avoided the dan ger by keeping close in their hiding place where they had full opportunity of watching her actions Children are not always sensible of the disgust they create when under the influence of malignant passions Here was a fine and clever little girl exciting the contempt of two insignificant butterflies instead of sharing the amusements and regards of hey schoolfellows her feet which should have been employed in a healthful race were shuffling on the gravel to the detriment of a pair of new kid shoes while her lingers were pluck ing and destroying every leaf within her reach many times her eye turned to the rose tree but fears prevented revenge The tulip prisoners longed for her departure and sincerely rejoiced when the breakfast bell summoned the children to their first meal at this moment Julia made a snatch at some thing and kept it fast in her hands Miss Simpson observed her as they all returned down the great avenue and exclaimed she hoped Julia had not spoiled another rose She made no answer but placed her hand behind her O she has for certain cried Mary I wonder she is not ashamed to go indoors and meet my govern ness Is this the rose said Julia bringing forward and opening her hand All pressed forward to look It was not a flower but a butterfly crushed to death A look of pity passed from one to another and they retreated from the cruel girl as though her company were contagious Shame on yon unfeeling child said Miss Saville be assured your conduct will meet punishment nor shall I endeavour to screen you for you well merit it Saying this she withdrew and the young criminal slowly followed despised and shun ned by all The sympathising breasts of our two friends longed to afford assistance to their poor fellow creature if indeed he still existed and as soon as the children were out of sight they repaired to the spot but alas their humanity was unavailing life was extinct As they bent over him with sad regret a sudden exclamation from his companion startled the Peacock and he enquired the cause Behold cried the other behold in this unhappy victim of human passions my valued friend Shamrock 5 c Is it possible But too true indeed I perceived the likeness the first moment 1 looked at the bod and a close inspection places the fact beyond doubt How I lament we did not meet before he fell into the hands of that cruel girl how much entertainment and instruction have we not missed by hi unexpected demise This is another proof of the uncertainty of butterfly happiness I tremble my dear Peacock lest our separation be near at hand and perhaps from a similar fate Say not so returned the other you make me shudder at the bare idea of such a thing I believe I never possessed great fortitude and am assured should such a fate be in store for one and I the survivor I should prove a bad philosopher J Pray gentlemen said a brisk young butterfly whose white wings seemed to float in the air have you met in the course of your morning rambles one of us with scarlet wings spotted here and there in a curious manner though not so handsome as that gentlemans meaning our hero Now it may be remembered Pea cock had no partiality for ladies of the white robe he remembered the flirtation of one and doubted the sincerity of this his vanity was not so alert as heretofore and the compliment to his beauty produced no gratification His sage friend took upon himself to answer seeing his reluctance to notice the lady I cannot say ma dam that we have noticed a butterfly answering your description Dear me it is very strange re turned she he is a particular friend of mine and promised to meet me this morning to conduct me to a gar den not very far from this where I am to join a large party at a sweet pea feast I am but a novice in travelling and so fearful of children that I tremble at the sight of one and just now I stumbled on half a hundred in these very grounds I really thought I should have fainted j however I escaped unperceived by any of them I am happy to say answered our Peacock that your fears were groundless for excepting one child the rest were too amiable to hurt a worm 1 wish it were more often the case observed the stranger for really I have heard terrible accounts of them 5 e Ah my dear Lily cried a scar let winged butterfly approaching the trio I have been looking for you these live minutes past And I have been waiting for you replied she it is past the time appointed I began to fancy some mis hap had befallen you or that you had changed the route and was en quiring of the good strangers if they had seen one of your kind Well I am here at last and ready to attend you to our party who anxiously look for your presence Perchance these gentlemen will be gracious enough to join us and share the delights of a pea feast I will ensure them plenty and a welcome Our friends at first refused but Scarlet was pressing and Lily was engaging so between both they gained their point and after a pleasant flight they descended to a bed of sweet peas whose beautiful tints and delightful fragrance might have tempted any butterfly in the universe it may be that Brown and yellow experienced a slight return of former epicurisms for his spirits exhilarated as he viewed the luxurious scene They were received with every mark of respect by the gay party assembled Our heros rank and beauty entitled him to attention and not withstanding the inferiority of his companions appearance they imagined he must he somebody by sharing his friendship and they perceived he treated Brown and yellow with regard and deference Good humour was the order of the day they met for enjoyment and all appeared satisfied Lily was a great favourite with her friends and could lead them to what she liked she proposed a short excursion after the repast which was readily agreed to and she spread her white wings as guide they followed and entered a delightful greenhouse it was the first our hero had ever seen internally and excited his warmest admiration the warbling of birds in an adjoining aviary added to his pleasure and he proposed to his friend their taking up their residence in the charming place I admire its beauties equally with yourself answered he but should be sorry lo decide on your plan no no it is too near the habitation of man I should never feel secure a moment it is very well to visit such a place occasionally but I have no desire to make it my home You are right no doubt re turned Peacock I spoke at random you always reflect ere you utter 3our sentiments Lily now advanced and informed them that she had discovered a most elegant apartment at the extremity of the greenhouse decorated with shrubs orange trees and in short every thing they could fancy as beautiful and added there were two ladies in the room one shewing the other some curious stuffed birds in glass cases I dont like the last part of your account said Brown and yellow I ieai she is a virtuoso 1 What a female virtuoso Yes Miss Lily no uncommon thing I assure you Her fancy may not stop at birds and I should regret to see any of my fair companions fall a sacrifice to her good taste and discernment But she is such a sweet looking her dress is so elegant and every thing looks so enticing around her That you would have us fall into the snare to admire the bait that caught us I speak disinterestedly for my class is not one to claim her notice it is more than probable I am safe but ye young and lovely would for certain meet danger and I dare not let my dear friend encounter the c While I can possibly prevent it Several agreed with the last speaker but more with Lily who whispered our hero that his friend was jealous of their superior charms and because he could not shew himself off to ad vantage wished to keep them all in the background Our butterfly had too much sense to attribute such motives to his friends but example is a dangerous thing he could not divest himself of Lilys wish and at length openly espoused the same side of the question It was at last decided that six of the party should visit the charming apartment and after satisfying their curiosity return and despatch the others on the same errand Lily had gained an influence over our peacock of which he was not conscious and although it was arranged he should not be one of the first party she soon persuaded him to and against the advice of brown and yellow he actually set forth on the hazardous expedition Mis friend however followed at a distance in the hope that should he perceive danger approaching he might Induce his volatile favourite to return Lily had not said too much of the scene they were to witness the apartment was indeed elegant and the ladies did honor to the apartment they were yet looking at the birds Weil said one of the fair exa miners I am infinitely obliged to you for this exhibition I have seen many birds preserved in a similar way but never such beautiful ones it is really quite a treat Have you any insects or shells and fossils Some few of the latter but I think there is much cruelty in collect ing insects as 1 know they are generally killed for the purpose and for this reason I never wish them to adorn mv cabinet I told you there was no danger whispered Lily did you ever hear sweeter tones of humanity You are very tenderhearted said the other lady smiling it really never entered my head I have been so accustomed to view them in all stages and I certainly do admire them butterflies for instance Here our travellers halted and listened eagerly for the remainder of her speech She continued Butterflies for instance what can be more beautiful My father has some in his collection that are quite wonderful I know he has but can never re concile myself to such things I declare when I go to Mr Siiakeheads Museum I never enjoy the scene for reflecting on the means he 1ms adopted to procure many of the harmless creatures before me Charmed as our party were with the sentiments of the last speaker they did not feel quite at ease in the presence of her companion Per haps said one she maybe in the habit of collecting insects and killing them for her father I am frightened out of my wits lest she should disco ver us Never fear answered Lily her friend will protect us in my mind we are safer here than any where I have a great desire to see these birds and shall venture to the table assured our fair advocate will not suffer harm to befal me It was in vain the rest opposed this bold intention Lily was a positive butterfly and made her way to the table as she said A sudden and violent storm of thunder and rain startled the two who quitted their employment The tenderhearted one let the case fall suddenly from her hands the fate of Lily was decided its weight crushed her to atoms as she was creeping on the table beneath The act was perfectly unintentional and the perpetrator remained ignorant of the death she had occasioned Not so the horrorstruck party of her own species who had gathered in a circle to witness her Quixotism and consequently all beheld her melancholy end Our hero felt particularly affected and hastened from the lately admired spot as fast as possible He felt ashamed on perceiving Brown and yellow closely watching him You know all that has passed of course said he I do indeed returned his friend and much as I lament the fate of our pretty Lily am thankful for your escape this is no place for us let us return to the greenhouse thank the good folk for their hospitalitv and again seek the regions of air freedom is every thing to us who are Natures children in future we will content ourselves with her simple produce enjoy it in its natural state and not hazard this constant peril by seek ing more refined food Peacock had nothing to offer in contradiction to these truths and readily agreed to quit the greenhouse as soon as the forms of civility were over Their intention was no doubt prudent but the plan was far more easily concerted than executed for during their absence the windows of the greenhouse had been closed by the careful gardener when the storm commenced and as it yet continued the whole party were detained prisoners There did not appear much danger m the situation but Lilys catastrophe had a material effect on their spirits and all seemed anxious to be off It should seem that patience is a desirable quality even in a butterfly for in the present case no other remedy was at hand While flying from shrub to shrub anxiously awaiting the reopening of the windows Peacock discovered an opening in one of the sashes sufficiently wide to allow of escape With joy he communicated the same but to his great surprise many pre ferred remaining until the storm was over A few were wiser and with Brown and yellow availed them selves of what they deemed good fortune On regaining their liberty our friends took a grateful leave of their new acquaintance and directed their flight towards the garden of Mrs Bed ford where they hoped to enjoy u quiet repose for they flattered them selves Miss Julia would be very cautious in showing her ill temper hi future Unfortunately they had not a just idea of the distance and sup posed themselves near their former residence when they were wide from it Peacock observed a garden wall Of which looked very like Mrs Bedfords and they quickly descended on the other side It was not the spot expected but there was a similarity in the laying out the flowerbeds and they concluded it was a different part of the same grounds and they doubted not by perseverance arriving at the tulip bed The farther they went however the more they found themselves astray and despairing of gaining the desired haven they were beginning to consider if it were wise to take up their abode in this new place when a hubbub of many loud voices made them start with surprise and in a few seconds the green lawn before them vas covered by a number of boys buoyant with youth and spirits They now no longer doubted their mistake and guessing that a boys seminary was no place of security for butter flies they again took their departure as speedily as possible Wishing to avoid the public road they turned into a long narrow lane shaded by trees afford ing a delight ful shelter and leaving them at liberty to enjoy a little private conversation How much I regret said Brown wings our foolish acceptation of the strangers invitation we have lost our quiet and pleasant home have suffered much unnecessary anxiety and witnessed the melancholy death of a lovely female who perhaps in her wish to entertain us hastened her own fate Alas I fear so returned the other but my share of blame is far greater than yours for had I resisted poor Lilys proposal she might have desisted in compliment to us as strangers Well it is now too late to repair the error observed Brown wings we must he more cautious in time to come I only wish we could find our old haunt I felt attached to it and am persuaded the amiable pupils of Mrs Bedford would never have molested our sports But see what have we here look through this gap there is a fine house and spacious grounds what a beautiful border of flowers round that lawn it is quite tempting But I fear it is too public we will just take a survey of the place and pursue our journey for retirement is now our first and most desirable object True answered Peacock but methinks we could meet no harm in taking a nearer view of this fair scene His friend thought so too and they accordingly went through the opening over a low paling and approached the enticing flower border The house at some distance was a magnificent ancient structure and they guessed belonged to some nobleman of high rank a fine park lay to the right in short the whole formed a spacious demesne which they admired some time unmolested At length they heard approaching steps and shortly beheld a female servant with a young child it was just learning to walk and looked so pretty and innocent that our butterflies rested on a briar to watch its interesting motion The nurse was not one of those careful attendants who may be trusted with their charge out of sight of the pa rent in fact she was any thing but Hannah Bennett Holding the babe carelessly by the arm she let it slip and the helpless little creature fell on its face on the gravel walk As may be supposed loud cries followed the blow and Mrs Nurse used all her powers of coaxing to quiet the young lord as she called him but he was not so easily pacified and the woman appeared frightened lest his shrieks should reach the house She picked flower after flower which he threw from him indignantly Nurse was more alarmed At length her eye caught the two spectators of the scene when forgetting every thing but her young masters cries she grasped Brown and yellow who was nearer than our hero and holding him up by the wing cried See see my sweet darling here is a pretty creature a nice fine butterfly all for my own child shall nurse beat the naughty thing for making dear Lord Charles fall and hurt his pretty face Lord Charles now held his tongue for a moment and stretched out his chubby hands for the naughty butter fly but no sooner was it in his power than the unconscious babe tore the unfortunate insect into a dozen pieces Gentle readers imagine the feelings of our hero while beholding the horrible transaction Grief indignation despair each took possession of his breast in a paroxysm of wretchedness he flew over the bush and lighted at the feet of the unfeeling woman in the hope she would seize him as a second sacrifice but whether she overlooked him or the sound of voices now induced her flight we know not but suddenly snatching up the child she hurried clown a serpentine walk and soon disappeared Sincere and bitter were the lamentations our solitary wanderer poured forth over the mangled relics of his disinterested friend Never never more cried he shall I meet with such a true friend in thee I have lost all that made life desirable no longer will I shun the haunts of man I will present myself to his view at all times and seek the death I have hitherto avoided Accident I may es cape but the cruelty of human nature is certain We are all apt to forget past good when evil presents itself just so with our brokenhearted butterfly in his grief for this heavy loss he forgot the humanity of the gentle Phebe and Ned the kindness of Lucy Saville and the feeling of Lilys unconscious destroyer It must be allowed his conduct v as censurable but if we feel that intellectual beings are capable of the same we may assuredly be lenient to a despairing insect Scarcely knowing how he flew he approached the house and entered the first open window He saw a male and female but he did not as heretofore shun them the gentleman was reading and the lady lolling on a sofa half asleep A moments view of the latter discovered to him the fair virtuoso who acknowledged her admiration of dead butterflies to her friend in the greenhouse apartment A moment before he had desired death now he shrank from the chance of his wish being realized yet like the moth and the candle he hovered round the flame wanting power or resolution to escape The indolence of the lady prevented her rising to look about her but his terror was not abated by her inactivity for he guessed the sour countenanced gentleman reading was no other than her father whose collection she had so praised In truth he was right the noble lord was no other than the celebrated Earl of Mothhead whom our readers may remember was mentioned by the old virtuoso to Nathaniel Lap wing Suddenly laying down the book he exclaimed Lady Amelia secure at beautiful butterfly at your left elbow he is worth preserving Her ladyship endeavoured to do as desired but our nimble hero avoid ed her slender fingers and flew to the opposite side of the room The earl jumped up his daughter did the same and a complete ehace ensued during which the persecuted insect received many severe contusions though eventually he escaped the snare and made his way into the grounds by another window But freedom was all he gained his sufferings were acute and strength seemed fast decaying With much difficulty he reached the opposite side of the lawn and crawling up the low walk descended into the lane from which he first entered How unlike his entrance was the departure Alone in pain of mind as well as body it seemed of little consequence where he went next but all sense left him was horror of the earl and his grand estate and he fancied if he could once lose sight of it he should die content A long time elapsed before he did so for lite was fast vrasth Who shall speak his joy when turning the corner of the green lane he beheld the humble cottage the home of his earliest favourites Yes the much regretted spot was now be fore him his native jasmine source of his happiest meals The sight renovated his drooping spirits he flew to the open casement saw the rosy features of Phebe resting on her brothers shoulder crept to the nearest branch of jasmine dropped on one of its fairest blossoms and DIED SO ENDS THE RAMBLES OF A BUTTERFLYobserve the insect race ordained to keep the silent sabbath of a half years sleep entomd beneath the filmy web they lie and wait the influence of a kinder sky when vernal sunbeams pierce the dark retreat the heaving tomb distends with vital heat the full formed brood impatient of their cell start from their trance and burst their silken shell insects are so called from a separation in the middle of their bodies seemingly cut into two parts and joined together by a small ligature as we see in wasps and common flies however small and contemptible this class of beings may appear at first thought yet when we come to reflect and carefully investigate we shall be struck with wonder and astonishment and shall discover that the smallest gnat that buzzes in the meadow is as much a subject of admiration as the largest elephant that ranges the forest or the hugest whale which ploughs the deep and when we consider the least creature that we can imagine myriads of which are too small to be discovered without the help of glasses and that each of their bodies is made up of different organs or parts by which they receive or retain nourishment c with the power of action how natural the exclamation o lord how manifold are thy works in wisdom hast thou made them all under these considerations that they are the work of the same great good and almighty hand that formed us and that they are all capable of feeling pleasure and pain surely every little child as well as older person ought carefully to avoid every kind of cruelty to any kind of creature great or small the supreme court of judicature at athens punished a boy for putting out the eyes of a poor bird and parents and masters should never overlook an instance of cruelty to any thing that has life however minute and seemingly contemptible the object may be i would not enter on my list of friends   though gracd with polishd manners and fine sense yet wanting sensibility the man   who needlessly sets foot upon a worm the elephantbeetle is the largest of this kind hitherto known and is found in south america particularly in guiana about the rivers surinam and oroonoko it is of a black colour and the whole body is covered with a shell full as thick and as strong as that of a small crab there is one preserved in the museum that measures more than six inches grasshoppers are too common to need description as they abound almost wherever there is green grass one summer only is their period of life they are hatched in the spring and die in the fall previous to which they deposite their eggs in the earth which the genial warmth of the next season brings to life they are food for many of the feathered race there are two classes of crickets viz the field cricket and the house cricket the latter inhabits warm places the holes of the hearth c from whence we hear its notes which are agreeable it is said that they are purchased by some and kept in a kind of cage for the sake of their music field crickets inhabit the meadows and subsist on roots c as does another species called the mole cricket there are different kinds of the locust those we are acquainted with in this country are represented in the above cut in some seasons they are scarcely heard at all in others they are more numerous about the middle or latter part of summer we hear them among the leaves of the trees their notes which are continued about the space of one minute are loud at the beginning and grow lower and lower till they cease when they immediately fly to another tree begin again and end in the same way and so on in the eastern countries a kind or kinds of locust at different periods have been very numerous and have done abundance of damage in the year 1650 a cloud of locusts entered russia in three different places and from thence spread over poland and lithuania the air was darkened and the earth covered in some places to the depth of four feet the trees bent with heir weight and the damage sustained exceeded computation locusts were among the plagues of egypt sec exodus x 15 this very troublesome little animal multiplies very fast among old rags dirt straw and litter where hogs cats or dogs sleep and in the hair and bristles of those creatures therefore as a means of avoiding such unwelcome neighbours in the springs the cleanly farmer scrapes up the rubbish about his woodpile and around his house and barn and removes it into his field where it also repays him by manuring his lands they abound in warm countries particularly in the southern parts of france and italy when examined by a microscope the flea is a pleasant object the body is curiously adorned with a suit of polished armour neatly jointed and beset with a great number of sharp pins almost like the quills of a porcupine it has a small head large eyes two horns or feelers which proceed from the head and four long legs from the breast they are very hairy and long and have several joints which fold as it were one within another these loathsome animals however unwelcome attend in troops and add to the afflictions of the unfortunate and lazy but they are routed by the hand of industry and cleanliness in examining the louse with a microscope its external deformity strikes us with disgust it has six feet two eyes and a sort of sting proboscis or sucker with which it pierces the skin and sucks the blood the skin of the louse is hard and transparent with here and there several bristly hairs at the end of each leg are two claws by which it is enabled to lay hold of the hairs on which it climbs there is scarcely any animal known to multiply so fast as this unwelcome intruder from an experiment of lieuenhoek a louse in eight weeks may see five thousand of its descendants among the ancients what is called the lousy disease was not uncommon antiochus herod and others are said to have died of this disorder there are many species of mites beside the itch animal and mite above to the naked eye they appear like moving particles of dust but the microscope discovers them to be perfect animals having as regular a figure and performing all the functions of life as perfectly as creatures that exceed them many times in bulk their eggs are so small that a regular computation shews that 90 millions of them are not so large as a common pigeons egg the chego is a very small animal about one fourth the size of a common flea it is very troublesome in warm climates to the poor blacks such as go barefoot and the slovenly it penetrates the skin under which it lays a bunch of eggs which swell to the bigness of a small pea the deathwatch of which there are two kinds is an insect famous for a ticking noise like a watch which superstitious people take for a presage of death in the family where it is heard this is one of the largest of the insect tribe it is met with in different countries and of various sizes from two or three inches to nearly a foot in length it somewhat resembles a lobster and casts its skin as the lobster does its shell scorpions are common in hot countries they are very bold and watchful when any thing approaches they erect their tails and stand ready to inflict the direful sting in some parts of italy and france they are among the greatest pests that plague mankind they are very numerous and are most common in old houses in dry or decayed walls and among furniture insomuch that it is attended with much danger to remove the same their sting is generally a very deadly poison though not in all cases owing to a difference of malignity of different animals or some other cause in the time of the children of israel scorpions were a plague in egypt and canaan as appears by the sacred writings see deuteronomy viii 15 and other passages   who can observe the faithful ant   and not provide for future want these little animals have been for ages considered as patterns of industry they were specially noticed by the wise king solomon he says go to the ant thou sluggard consider her ways and be wise the ant lays eggs in the manner of common flies from these eggs are hatched small maggots or worms without legs these after a short time change into large white aureliae or chrysales which are usually called ants eggs when a nest of these creatures is disturbed however great their own danger the care they take of their offspring is remarkable each takes in its foreceps a young one often larger than itself and carries it off these little insects form to themselves with much industry and application of earth sticks leaves c little hillocks called anthills in the form of a cone in these they dwell breed and deposite their stores they are commonly built in woody places the brushy plains on longisland abound with them they are from one to two feet in height this is an extraordinary curious and remarkably industrious little insect to which mankind are indebted for one of the most palatable and wholesome sweets which nature affords and which was one of the choice articles with which the promised land was said to abound in every hive of bees there are three kinds the queen the drones and the labourers of these last there are by far the greatest number and as cold weather approaches they drive from the hives and destroy the drones that have not laboured in summer and will not let them eat in winter if bees are examined through a glass hive all appears at first like confusion but on a more careful inspection every animal is found regularly employed it is very delightful when the maple and other trees are in bloom or the clover in the meadows to be abroad and hear their busy hum   brisk as the busy bee among learnings flowers   employ thy youthful sunshine hours of these flies which are called by many spindles there are various species they all have two very large eyes covering the whole surface of the head they fly very swiftly and prey upon the wing clearing the air of innumerable little flies the great ones live about water but the smaller are common among hedges and about gardens of butterflies there are many kinds how wonderful the various changes of this class of insects the butterflies lay their eggs from these hatch out worms or caterpillars which change their skins several times and finally become aureliae chrysales or silkworms out of which come the beautiful butterflies there are many kinds of spiders some of which are said to grow to such a size that they will catch small birds some are poisonous but the greater part are harmless although to most people their looks are disgusting the web of a spider which is a net for catching its prey is an astonishing piece of curiosity the silk worm is a very valuable insect it is produced from an egg of a yellowish colour about the size of a small pins head that is laid by a moth or butterfly the above cut represents a male and female and her eggs of which she lays several hundreds the moths live but a few days they never eat and die directly after the eggs are laid this cut shews the appearance of the worm which at first is very small and black its food is the leaves of the white mulberry as it grows in size at four different periods it apparently sickens and changes its skin and finally when full grown it spins a ball of silk called a cone or cocoon the thread of which is about three hundred yards long in the centre of this ball the worm entombs itself and experiences a change to a state called an aurelia or chrysallis as seen below the ball from this aurelia the moth that lays the eggs is hatched and thus goes on the round of this animals changes or transmigrations they are natives of china and were brought into italy above twelve hundred years ago from thence into spain afterwards into france much later into germany and the northern countries and some have been reared in the united states of america












CONTENTS. 



CHAP. I. 

A young Bee, deceived by fine weather, leave* 
the Hive too early, and contrary to the advice 
and commands of his Mother His sufferings 
and close confinement, the result of his disobe- 
dience : excites the compassion of a Butterfly 
a friendship formed between them in conse- 
quence of it. 

CHAP. II. 

The Bee gets again on the wing Is introduc- 
ed by his friend to a field of cowslips Inter- 
rupted by Children Instance of vanity in the 
Butterfly Conversation of the Bee and his Friend 
as they return He resolves to find his Hive. 



CHAP. III. 

The Bee out early in search of his former 
abode, accompanies the Butterfly to a bed of 
Tulips Farther discovery of vanity in the lat- 
ter Children in pursuit of him The Bee ap- 
pears in his defence and commits a great outrage 
He sees his Hive at a distance His Joy on be- 
holding it -His Return and Re-admission there 
The consequence of a Bee in danger. 

CHAP. IV. 

The farther flights of the Bee and the Butter- 
fly Visit to a Cottage Such abodes not always 
the dwelling of Peace Disagreement between 
two Friends The meanness of an Informer 
The Bee's observation on their conduct Regard 
to appearances observable in Creatures superior to 
the Butterfly His triumph on perceiving it. 

CHAP. V. 

The Butterfly deceived by a Flower Their 
visit to a conservatory The alarm occasioned by 
their joining a Party after Dinuer A Battle en- 
sue*, The Bee puts the Indies- to flight His 




CHAP. VI. 

confinement The Butterfly's anxiety Hi* 
Friend regains bis Liberty and returns late to the 
Hire The Butterfly detects flattery in a Gentle- 
man to a Lady, and is alarmed by a hint from his 
Friend as they separate for the Night. 

The Bees swarm Their fondness for their 
Queen The Bee in waiting The Butterfly goeg 
into the Country on a party of Pleasure, is over- 
taken by a Storm Returns in a Stage-coach- 
An Officer exercising his genius in hoaxinghis 
Fellow-travellers The Butterfly recounts his ad- 
ventures to his Friend Their remarks on what 
passed during his Journey* 

CHAP. VII. 

The Butterfly's alarm, and account of a Natu- 
ralist Wasps ensnared in a Bottle A Bee 
drowning in a Pot of Honey, is extricated by 
his Friend Flies The Be's remarks upon 
them, nearly offends his Friend by comparing 
them with him The Butterfly foretells the ap- 
proach of Winter, and notwithstanding the kind 
ejudeavours of his Friend, dies The Bee's Regret 



He performs the last ^Office for him, and re 
turns to the Hive, where, after remaining the 
Winter, he persuades the whole Community to 
remove their Quarters They forsake their Hive 
and retire beyond the reach of Men. 



PREFACE. 



THE flattering pictures of men 
and manners, which are drawn in 
most of the present publications 
for youth, can alone be well ap- 
plied, when they are considered 
not as what mankind are, but what 
they ought to be ; and, indeed, 
we may search the world through 
before we find their likeness. 

Such is the simplicity of un- 
guarded youth, that even when 
disappointed in their expectation 
of happiness from one quarter, 



X 

they seek it in another equally 
fallacious ; and, drawing all their 
ideas from fancied " excellencies, 
fondly imagine, that; while looking 
onily for mental satisfaction,; and 
the pleasures arising from friend- 
ship, rational society, and theex-v 
cercises ,of humanity, they cannot 
Le mistaken in the pursuit; though 
too often the frequent mconsisten-r 
cies observable in those whom 
they have been led most to admire, 
excites a sigh pf sad surprise, till 
from a. more enlarged judgment, 
matured and exercised with a feel- 
ing sense of what they view, they 


XX 

learu that continual and glaring 
absurdities are all the fruit pro- 
duced in -nature's soil. 

It is to open this lesson to tfient 
that the following pages are writ- 
ten, and with the hope that if 
Folly does not blind their eyes, 
and Prejudice (who, which&^er 
way she turns, chooses to see 
things only through her own me- 
dium,) has not yet erected her 
throne in their breasts, they may 
receive even from the limited re- 
marks of a Bee and a Butterfly 
a gentle hint or two of what they 
may expect to meet with in their 



XII 

future walks through life ; and 
thus warned of the strange con- 
trarieties, perceivable in human 
pature, escape the additional pang 
their being totally unexpected 
would produce. 





CHAP. I. 

" Imagination to his view 
" Presents it, deck'd with every hue, 
" That can seduce him not to spare 
" His pow'rs of best exertion there." 

COWPER. 

A Bee who had patted the firft winter 
of his life under the foftering care of his 
mother, though often warned by her of 
miftaking a fine day early in the fpring 
for the fummer, or the time in which 
it would be of any ufe to make an ex- 
curfion from the hive,, was eager to 
begin his travels; he heard his compan- 




ions talking of the flights they had taken 
in the former fummer, and had tailed 
of the honey they had at that time 
brought home, and laid up in (lore for 
food when none other could be procured: 
he had alfo enjoyed fome of thofe flights 
"with them., and had helped to gather in 
the common ftoc^, (for Bees, though ever 
fo youngs are feldom idle;) but he was 
not aware that many a cold and wintYy 
day would yet precede the time of ga- 
thering in a frefh ftore ; even after the 
fun had fhone. and the birds had fung, 
as if it was nearly come. 

During the feverity of winter he 
remained quietly in his cell, rejoiced 
in the fhelter it afforded him, and joined 
the crowded hive in paying every re- 
fpfccl to their queen and mother, who, 
while (he treated them with the care 
and tendernefs of a parent, kept up her 




dignity as a foyereign, and ruled her 
fubjefts with the greateft order. Every* 
part of her dominions was thoroughly 
known to her, and nothing fuffered to 
remain within them that could annoy 
her numerous family; fhe rejoiced in 
their prosperity, and all were happy 
'under her government except the little 
fellow who is to be the hero of my tale. 
He would often creep to the entrance 
of the hive and peep, firft on one fide 
and then on the other, of the covering 
placed before it by its careful owners, 
while the bluftering winds were 
raging around; but no fooner did the 
leaft warm weather appear than it was 
removed for the inhabitants to have 
more air, and this, to our young one, 
was a joyful fight; he looked upon it 
as a prelude to the fummer, and run- 
ning to his companions, he faid, " we 


fhall foon be able to get out, the way is 
open/' 

" Be not too eager;" replied one of 
more experience than himfelf, te by 
the time one winter has pafifed over your 
head you may be a little wifer." 

" It is paffed, I think," returned the 
young one, v don't you feel the warmth 
of the fun? It reminds me of the plea- 
fant rambles we took together laft 
fuHnmer, and I am impatient to renew 
them." 

" Yon are indeed impatient" replied 
the hoar} Bee/' but time enough yet ; 
don't you know that our cities are 
always placed in fuch advantageous 
fituations that we have the earl left benefit 
from the fun's rays ? but let not this make 
you fuppofe the feafon farther advanc- 
ed than it is." 

" Well, now," replied the conceited 




chatterer, (< only put your head out and 
feel how very warm it is." 

" No, * I thank you/' returned the 
other, with a fhrug; " I know what it 
is to trufl to appearances, and can feel 
even here that the cold weather is not 
gone, and if you go only to the back of 
the hive you may hear how the wind ftill 
whittles behind it." 

" I had rather look at the funfhine/' 
returned the fimple one, and leaving his 
fage advifer he determined to think that 
it was becaufe he was old and lazy he 
wifhed to ftay at home, and keep others 
there alfo, as an excufe for his own idle- 
nefs; " let them ftay then," faid he, 
" but for my part I am inclined to make 
the moft of my time., and no doubt fhall 
bring home many a load before thefe 
old creepers will believe that there is 
any thing to be gathered." 



This refolution of the young Bee was 
not long a fecret in the community; he 
fcuzzed it about among all his acquain- 
tances ; nor was it hid from the queen, 
\vho, acting in the two-fold character, 
firft warned him of the danger, and 
then, on pain of their not being re-ad- 
rained, abfolutely forbade any one's 
Agoing out of the hive without her leave. 
But what can deter the obftinacy of a 
conceited youngfter? Nothing. If ex- 
perience obliges him to confefs that 
in one thing he is wrong, he ftill conti- 
nues as firmly bent upon another ; and 
if 'once inclined to think that he muft 
know as well as others, will continue to 
think fo, till experience teaches him that 
in all things he is liable to miftake. 
But my little hero was not yet brought 
to this conclufion, neither perhaps are 
many who will read his hiftory; but, as 
our ingenious fabwlilt tells us, 





" Every object of creation 

" Can furnish hints for contemplation," 

who knowsvvhether fomething may not 
be learnt from the hifiory of a Bee? 

In fpite of the remonftrances of 
her majefty, he ftill wifhed to get out, 
and after daily vifiting the front of the 
hive for nearly a month, during which 
time the fine weather continued, he be- 
gan to perfuade himfelf the interdiction 
could not extend fo far as this; <f It has 
been fine a great while," laid he to him- 
felf, " and if we flay within at this rate 
we fhali let all the fummer pafs away ;" 
and again his former furmife returned, 
" they are old and lazy," continued he, 
" and while they have any food left, are 
determined not to feek for more ; I will 
not ftay, however;" and he was ftill farj 
ther confirmed in this refolution, when 
boldly advancing quite out on the block 





hefaw other Bees, from a neighbouring 
hive, taking the air, and appearing like 
himfelf to be thinking it high time to 
get abroad. A fwarm of infecls -alfo 
were enjoying themfelves, and frifking 
about in the warm fun. Struck with 
fhame that thefe fhould be on the wing 
before him, he at that moment forgot 
all the kind admonitions of his mother, 
and the punifhment that awaited him 
if he difobeyed them ; and mounting in 
the^ air, his loud humming tellified his 
joy at being again at liberty. But alas ! 
where was he to go ? or to what flower 
could he now pay his court ? The flut- 
tering infecls he had feen were but the 
dancers of the day, juft born to frifk a 
few hours, and then return to their ori- 
ginal nothingnefs; and our young ad- 
venturer difdained to join the giddy 
train., or even to appear to notice what 





was fo unlike the character of a bufy 
Bee. 

It was now the latter end of April, 
when the thorn is in blofibm, violets 
and primrofes aifo decorate the hedges, 
and the hypatica, and polyanthus " of 
unnumbered dyes/' already appeared in 
the gardens ; but very few leaves were 
yet on the trees, though the buds were 
burfiing, and many of the fruit-trees 
were in full bloom ; to thefe our little 
wanderer winged his way, and as he flew 
from bloffom to bloflbm, and from one 
branch to the other, he could not but 
acknowledge with regret that his limbs 
felt cold, and very different from the 
vigour they poffeffed the former fum- 
mer. He wifhed to attribute it to his 
having been kept fo long within the 
hive, but a fudden blaft foon checked 
his ardour ; a fhivering came over him, 




and a drowfinefs, which he could not 
account for, fucceeded;prefently a pelt- 
ing fhower obliged him to creep for 
fhelter into a wall, againft which the 
trees were nailed, and here he began to 
fee his error; " Can I go back again?" 
faid he ;" Ah ! no, they will not receive - 
me; my ablence is by this time known, 
and I am never to be admitted more. 
Oh, my mother ! would that I had fol- 
lowed your counfel!" 

He had fcarcely fpoken thefe words, 
when a mid fpread itfelf before his 
eyes; his breath appeared failing, and 
he found himfelf itill more inclined to 
fleep, yet inftincl: told him that in 
fuch a (tate to give way to the inclina- 
tion was dangerous ; he feared the cold 
would feize him while iufenfible, and 
his life muft pay for it, but all his 
efforts to keep himfelf awake were 





vain ; the rain continued fo, that he 
could not get out to ufe his wings, and at 
length loft to all recolleclion, he funk 
ftupid and fenfelefs to the bottom of 
his retreat. 

How long he continued in this torpid 
ftate I cannot fay, but his friends he had 
left, after anxioufly expecling his return 
from day to day, and being difappoint- 
ed a gave him up for loft; and though he 
often awoke during his confinement, it 
was only to a keener fenfe of his mifery ; 
his limbs were ftill too ftiff to move, his 
eyes dim, and each time that he clofed 
them to return to fleep, (now the only 
alleviation of hisforrows, ) he concluded 
he fhpuld never open them again : he 
breathed a figh of regret on the remem- 
brance of the home he had quitted, and 
would gladly have returned, and in the 
prefence of the whole community ac- 





knowledge his rafhnefs ; but alas ! he 
could not now move a wing : yet as the 
warm weather came on, he felt himfelf 
revive beyond his hopes : he could look 
out from the place of his confinement, 
and though not fo ardent in his expecta- 
tions as a few weeks before, hebegan again 
to feel a pleafure in the rays of the fun, 
and to anticipate a future enjoyment of 
them. <c I mall not die/' faid he to 
himfelf, " but (hall yet be able to ac- 
complifh my defire, and fhew myfelf an 
induftrious Bee/' 

The trees on which he had before 
obferved only blofTom were now full 
of leaves; where the bloom had firft 
appeared, he faw the fruit, yet in its 
infant ftate. f< This is not now the food 
for me," faid he, and he looked wifh ful- 
ly around to obferve if there were 
any flowers near, from which he could 





gather his accuflomed nourifhment. 
While thus engaged, a Butterfly, on fpor- 
tive wing, came frifking by, and though 
he let tied fir ft on one leaf, and then on an- 
other, was unmindful of him,, till he fixed 
direclly on that which (haded the place 
from which our poor invalid was examin- 
ing the neighbouring plants. (C Oh !" 
faid he, with a heavy figh, as he marked 
the light wing of this new comer, " Oh ! 
that I could fly like him and ramble from 
flower to flower, without pain or dread 
of any." 

The attention of the Butterfly was 
attra&ed by the mournful tone in 
which this was uttered, and unlike many 
of his kind, he even flopped to liften to 
the complaining infecl, and afk if he 
could relieve him; " Perhaps," faid he, 
t( you are entangled in a fpider's web; 




and though lam unufed to the art of war, 
I will endeavour to liberate you." 

<f An offer like this/' replied the 
Bee, " I fhould not have expected 
from one of your nature ; but you 
can give me no afiiftance; it is not a 
web which keeps me here/ but ill 
health, and which I have brought upon 
myfelf by my own folly: I have no 
one elfe to blame, that I am not flying 
about as you are, though I hope 
to fome better purpofe." 

<e Do not be too fure.of that," re- 
plied the good-humoured Butterfly, 
c: nor defpife the help of one fo' infignl- 
ficant as you fuppofe I am; if I can 
in any way a. (lift you, I (hall not have 
been flying about in vain." 

" I beg your pardon," returned the 
Bee, confcious that he fhould not 



have anfwered in fuch a manner ; 
" pray let the pain I feel plead my 
excufe; I have been confined within 
Ibis place for I don't know how long, 
and now I feel the enlivening beams of 
the fun without being able to enjoy 
them, and mud even fiarve for want 
cf food, after I have efcaped death from 
the cold fhat fir(t feized me." 

"Do not bedifcouraged," replied the 
Butterfly,, " look at the border jutt below 
yon, where there are many of the 
mo*! beautiful flowers J fu rely they will 
afford you nourimment ; you need not 
fear fiarving in the midit of plenty." 

" I can't extend nay wings," faid the 
Bee, very mournfully. 

"If not your wings,," replied his 
cheerful comforter, (C can't you ufe 
your feet and crawl down the wall, 
and then upon the ground, till you 



reach the flowers ; don't be afraid, I'll 
venture my life that you will be able 
to fly after taking a little of the delici- 
ous food they offer you." . 

Animated by the Butterfly's words, the 
poor half-ftarved Bee endeavoured to 
follow his advice, and flowly creeping 
forth, he reached at length the defira- 
ble haven of a beautiful convolvulus, 
whofe head refted on the ground, whilft 
his compaffionate advifer waited on 
the neareft bud to obferve his pro- 
grefs; " did not I fay you could reach 
it?'' faid he, fluttering his wings for 
joy, ef who (hall defpife the counfel 
of a Butterfly ?" 

"I will not for the future/' replied the 
Bee, as he felt himfelf reviving from the 
fweet fmell of the flowers, and the warm 
rays of the fun fhining full upon his 
back, and a^ain he entreated him to 




pardon the churlifhnefs with which he 

at firft received it. 

te Oh, fay no more of that," return. 
cd the Butterfly, " but tell me if you 
do not find yourfelf better already ? 
whaf, becaufe you could hot fly, were 
youtofiarve? Thottghitmaybeadifgrace 
for one who has wings to crawl, yet fure- 
ly it is better to do this than lie down 
and die; but I do not defpair of feeing 
you fly to-morrow;" and, as he faid this, 
extended his wings, as if to depart. 

" You will not leave me," faid the 
Bee, who the longer he nefiled in the 
bell of the flower and tafted the food it 
afforded, felt his affeclion increafe for 
the means through which he hadprocured 
it; " Won't you flay and fee me return 
to my habitation ? I think you'll already 
obferve an alteration for the better." 

The Butterfly received this invitation 


with pleafure ; indeed he had only pre- 
tended tobe going that he might obferve 
% if he was ftill of fo little confequence in 
the eyes of the Bee, as for him not to 
wifh his ftay. He therefore readily ac- 
cepted it, attended him home,, and had 
the pleafure of feeing him much better 
able to get up the wall than down it : and 
from this time a lading friendfliip com- 
menced between them, no lefs (ingular in 
its kind than in the caufeofif; for natu- 
rally thefe infects do notnotice the other. 
The Butterfly, after feeing his new 
friend fafely landed at his old refting- 
place, and with him a little (tore of the 
delicate food he had been rafting, mark- 
ed the place, and kindly promifed 
to fee him again the next morning, 
<f when," faid he, " I hope I (hall find 
you both able and willing to take a 
(hort flight with me," and then left him. 




CHAP. II. 

" Excuse me then if pride, conceit, 
" The manners of the fair, and great, 

* I give to monkeys, asses, dogs, 

** Fleas, owls, goats, butterflies, and hogs ; 

* 1 say that these are proud; what then f 
". I never said they equal men." 

GAY, 

THE Bee thus returned began to feel 
fonocthing like pleafure, and as the 
morning fun lighted the place in which 
be had been fo long a prifoner, his hopes 
revived that he fhould yet feel a greater 
"benefit from them. 

He had not room to move his wings 
freely, yet he thought them rather more 
pliable, and creeping upon the branch 
of the tree which /haded the entrance of 
Ms habitation, he endeavoured^ to 
cleanie them from the dirt and ftiflf- 
nefs which had incumbered thenr, 




and after repeatedly ftroking his 
back with the little brufhes with which 
Nature had fnpplied his feet, he fuc- 
ceeded, and was able to fly from his fta- 
tion to a neighbouring flower. 

He had not forgotten the Butterfly, 
but he did not fuppofe that he would 
remember him or his engagement of the 
preceding evening, but again he had to 
acknowledge the miftake of prejudice, 
for he had not been long upon the 
flower, ( made more fweet by his having 
found the ufe of his wings to obtain it,) 
before he faw his friend approaching, 
flying through the air* and never fixing 
till he had found 'the fpot on which he 
had left him. 

The loud humming of the Bee foon 
difcovered that he was not far ofl 
and the Butterfly haftening towards 
him, congratulated him on having found 



his liberty. tf You are taking your 
breakfafl/' faid he, " I give you joy of 
a fine morning/' and after the kindeft 
enquiries of how he now found himfelf, 
he exprefled his hope that he would be 
able to accompany him to a field of 
cowflips which he had patted at a little 
diftance ; " they fmell fo fweet, and look 
fo beautiful," continued he, " hanging 
down their yellow heads^ that though I 
certainly admire a greater variety of co- 
lours, I could not but be pleafed with 
thefe, and had I not wifiied for your 
company, could have flown from one to 
the other for fome time; I am fure one 
day's feafting on their fweets willreftore 
you to perfect health; come, ftiall I lead 
the way ?" 

" I cannot but be grateful for your 
folicitude," returned the Bee, <e and 
that you fliould fo f ar forget your na- 





ture as to be anxious for me who am 
of fo different an one; I am able t" fly- 
but very (lowly, if at all, and you will 
like to extend your rambles much far- 
ther than lean accompany you ; do not, 
therefore, think of tying y ourfelf to me/* 
The Butterfly was evidently (^appoint- 
ed ; " I know," faid he, f( that our na- 
tures are different; I am not held in fuch 
high eftimation asyourfelf, nor am I half 
fo ufeful, or my life fo long as yourY; 
' the creatures but of a day/ is what we 
are generally called, yet that day it is 
my wifli to fpend well, and as far as is 
in my power to be of benefit to another ; 
if it was to one meaner than myfelf it 
would be gratifying, but when I confi- 
der that it is to a Bee that my fervices 
are ufeful, it is doubly fo ; why then will 
you deny me this pleafure ?" 

The Bee could not but be ftruck 





with this fingular proof of friendfhip 
in one from whom he had not de- 
ferved it, and though he might be 
unwilling that any of his old compa- 
nions fhould fee him afibciating with 
one whom they were moftly inclined to 
treat with contempt, he could no longer 
refift his importunity, and therefore, 
promifed to accompany him to the place 
he had mentioned, and where he was 
amply recompenced by the delicious 
food he found there, for the fatiguing 
though fliort flight he had taken to pro- 
cure it, whilft the good-natured Butter- 
fly was equally gratified by feeing his 
friend enjoy the fragrance he had intro- 
duced him to. " You will flay here 
all day," faid he, <f and by night I ex- 
peel to fee you ftrong and hearty; if 
you pleafe, I will fly about a little, and 
perhaps (hall b able to bring you intel- 




Hgence of food for to-morrow, but pro- 
raife me to remain here till my return." 

f< Undoubtedly/' replied the Bee, 
half loft in one of the fweet recedes 
he was thus enjoying, " believe 
me I feel your kindnefs ! If you had 
notvifited me laft nigftt, and encouraged! 
my feeble efforts to move, I fhould have 
laid (till and died, and all thefe bounties 
of Nature would have been fpread in 
vain for me; indeed, I am obliged to 
you, and feel that though you may never 
be of fuch fervice to me again, I fhould 
be forry to lofe your acquaintance." 

This acknowledgement was fufficient 
for the Butterfly, who fluttered about in 
grateful joy, and in the courfe of the 
day made many excurfions, from all of 
which he returned with goodhumourand 
kind enquiries; while the Bee continued 
to fly from flower to flower, and though 





he was fometimes ready to regret that he 
had not a hive, to which he could carry 
the produce of his labours, and receive 
the commendations of his mother for fo 
doing, he felt that he was yet too weak 
to work to much advantage, and there- 
fore tried to be content with what was 
neceffary for himfelf. 

Several Bees came to this field of 
fweets, in which he was thus re veiling; 
but none of his old acquaintance were 
among them, and he forbore to fpeak to 
them; " though idle myfelf," faid he ; (f I 
will not make others fo by engaging" 
them in talk with me ;" and indeed fo 
anxious was he not to difgrace the cha- 
racter of what a Beejhouldbe, that if h 
thought any of them were noticing him, 
he would pretend to be ear"-.. at 
work alfo, led they mould 6 
an idle drone. 



In his next vifit, the Butterfly brought 
him fuch intelligence as he thought 
would be agreeable to him; tc We are 
in the -land of plenty," faid he, fi every 
thing is flourifhing, and innumerable 
flowers are every where to be feen." 

'-' I (hall foon be able to vifit them/' 
returned the Bee, (f and after one more 
night's reft I fhall almoft forget that J 
have been ill; I have already recovered 
my fpirits, and my health will foon re- 
turn." 

As they were thus talking, they ob- 
ferved a troop of children with bafkets 
in their hands, and an old man at their 
head, who feemed to be directing their 
fteps to the field they were in. 

" Thefe are fome of my tormentors," 
faid the butterfly, " though they appear 
to admire me, and to wifh me no harm, 
they are in reality my greateft enemies; 


even the found of their voices puts me 
in a fright: Oh ! how fick I am of 
hearing them finging, " Butterfly, but- 
terfly, come to me/' though you may 
be very fure I never accept their 
invitation; once I was (hut up in a box 
for nearly a whole day by one of 
thefe kind admirers, with a few green 
leaves for me to eat and fleep upon ; 
and I fuppofe (he thought fhe was doing 
me a very great favor to procure me fuch 
a refidence; but I was much more 
obliged to another little girl, who in her 
abfence let me out of my confinement, 
and fince that time I have been more 
than ever anxious to efcape their notice." 
<c I know nothing of an alarm of that 
fort," replied the Bee, " children are 
in general afraid of me, and I have Ibme- 
times been half inclined to regret it, 
though in reality I believe it is the beft 




thing that could happen, but thefe," 
continued he, " if I am not miitaken, 
are going to be otherwise employed 
than in admiring either you or me, for 
I think we fhail fee I hem gathering the 
flowers on which we have been feeding, 
and this was actually ihe cafe, for as they 
entered the h< ( 1, t',e old man encou- 
raged them in by prom ifing that 
when the v;in $ s made for which thefe 
cowflipswere . ., "leied, tj)eyfhould 
all have a glais of it 

" What devouring creatures are thefe 
men," obferved the Bee, ** every one 
of thefe fweet flowers will be deftroyed 
to make their wine ; but they are f the 
Lords of the Creation,' and take away 
at one liroke what would fatisfy us more 
moderate creatures for months and 
months ; but fee, the children are conning, 
had you not better take to your wings?'' 




" Not yet," replied the Butterfly, "they 
are going to be otherwife engaged ; 
Vs w^en they are idle, or at play, that I 
have molt reafon to be alarmed, and be- 
fides here are a great many more of my 
race frifking about, though among ever fo 
great a number, I am the moil admired." 

The Bee f mi led at thisdifcovery vf vani- 
ty in his friend, though he made no reply, 
and as the children began clearing the 
field at the other end of it, they conti- 
nued a little longer to enjoy the fweets 
they were fo foon to be deprived o till 
the (hades of the evening began to ad- 
vance, when the Bee propofed returning 
home, and bade a : ieu ! thofe charming 
flowers from which he had gathered 
health and ftrength, and a fufficient (tock 
of honey to take home with him. 

" Where do you repofe for the night ?" 
laid he to his friend, " have you no 


fettled place of abode, or do you reft 
upon the firii flower you meet with ?" 

" I generally pafs the night under a 
green leaf, or in the cup of a flower/' 
replied the Butterfly, " and nlay this eve- 
ning find a place to repofe in near your 
habitation, if you have no objection/* 

" I fhould be glad of your company 
within it," returned the Bee, '* were it 
large enough to admit us both, but what 
do you live upon ? cannot you tafte 
fome of the provifion I am going to 
carry home ? you fhallbe very welcome." 

The Butterfly teftified his thanks by 
a fluttering of his wings; " but I do not 
particularly relifh that food," faid he, 
" and you would perhaps wonder what 
it is we do eat, for it is no uncommon 
opinion that we live upon air; how- 
ever, in our reptile (late, we make up 
for our little eating now; were you to 





fee the deviation we make in the vege- 
table world, you would be furprifed; 
three or four dozen of us will deftroy a 
bed of cabbages in an hour or two, 
and we often ftrip a Ihrub of all its 
leaves in the courfe of a morning." 

" And do you boaft of this?" 
replied the Bee; " furely it is exulting 
in mifchief." 

; ' It is our native? returned the 
thoughtlefs Butterfly; t( and. what is 
the mifchief, as you call it, compared to 
that which men are daily doing? do 
they not deftroy us by thoufands, 
whenever they have an opportunity ? 
and why fhould^ow, of all others, plead 
for them, who, when you have fpent 
your lives in their fervice, and procured 
for them that food which they can ob- 
tain from no other quarter, burn and 
deftroy your hives and yourielves too ? 





Oh! I have patted one of ttiefe monu- 
ments of their ungrateful cruelty, and 
feen the mangled remains of your fel- 
low-creatures till my wings have quite 
trembled again, and yet you never do 
them harm; they form your habitation, 
and encourage^ r cu to build in them by 
pretending to fhelter you from all evil, 
yetafter all this fancied kindnefs, if they 
think you are too old to labour for them 
any longer, as a reward for all you have 
done, they fet fire to your houfes, and 
deftroy thoufands of you in the flames ! 
talk no more of mifchief in eating a few 
cabbages, or devouring the leaves of a 
tree." 

" Thefe are fhocking truths," re'- 
plied the Bee, " my blood runs cold 
to think of it, and yet fuch is my nature 
t!\at, though I know I am fafe from fuch 
de vaftations where I now am, I would 





rather add my labours to the common 
Hock of my native hive, could I but 
find the way to return to it, and fhare 
the fate of my fellow-labourers, if fuch 
a fate awaits them; but who knows that 
we may not efcape? it is not every Bee 
that is thus deftroyed." 

" Nature," returned his friend, " has 
armed you with a defenfive weapon 
with which I think you might foon re- 
pel your deftroyers: but as for us pocr 
Butterflies, we can do nothing to defend 
ourfelves." 

"Tis true," returned the Bee, <f we have 
this weapon, and we have often made 
our enemies fly by ufingit; but you 
muft know, fuch is their cunning cow- 
ardice, that they will not attack us on 
equal terms; they muft have the covert 
of the night for their cruel work, and 
when we are all in our hives, each enclof- 





ed in their waxen cell, they begin the 
horrid maflacre; I fhould feel it more, 
but that I believe they take as great de- 
light in deftroying each other as they do 
in killing us ; for I have heard them re- 
joicing together that fo many of the 
enemy were flain, and I know they mean 
their fellow men by tins appellation, 
for they don't dignify us with that title; 
their great enmity to infecls arifes from 
\vhat they deftroy ; and yet, in one day., 
they themfelves devour more than any 
. of them, but then they think every thing 
that can be ufeful to them was only 
made for that purpofe, and no one can 
fay they do not take care to make it ful- 
fill that end, whatever elfe is left un- 
done." 

" But the queftion is, whether they 
have any right to deltroy you, after that 
is done?" rejoined the Butterfly, 



Cf A queftion too hard for me to an- 
fwer/'returrtedthe Bee; "but this! know, 
that we have a right to defend ourfelves 
again (t them whenever we can ; and I 
know alfo, that for the kindnefs you 
have mown me I'll defend you from 
their attacks as long as I am able : but 
we are arrived at my dwelling, let us 
reft upon this tree while the fun is 
taking its laft peep at the horizon." 

After refrefhing themfelves with a . 
little of the honey the Bee had brought 
home, and of which the Butterfly juft 
tailed a little, becaufe he would not ap- 
pear to refufe what was kindly meant, 
they parted for thenight.theBee refolv- 
ing to travel farther the next day, and, 
if pofllble, to find out his old habitation, 
though not without afTuring the Butter- 
fly that if he mould be fo happy as to be 
re-admitted, it mould make no diffe- 
rence in his friendihip for him. 






CHAR IIL 

w And thus a never-ceasing pleasure flow*, 
" Or to the human, or the bestial race, 
" From those ideal charms wealiattach to place." 
LOCAL ATTACHMENT. 

TITR next morning oar two friends 
awoke with the fun, and before half my 
readers are out of their beds, their pere- 
grinations commenced, one in queft of 
whatever he could turn into fomething 
ufeful, the other to 6.nd what was new 
and entertaining. When they met, the 
Bee was (till defirous of finding his old 
habitation. ff But why ?" faid the Butter- 
fly, " furely the little cell you now live 
in will do very well for the fummer; 
you are in no danger where you are, 
and have the delightful privilege of 
calling it all your own." 

" All this is true," replied the Bee, 




" but what a life am I now leading? 
adding nothing to the general (tock ; 
while all my brethren are bufily em- 
ployed in gathering what will be of 
equal benefit to each, no, no . there is 
a pleafure in being thus mutually 
afiiflant to others which only thoie 
who have experienced it can know ; 
and I am refolved, if poffible, to enjoy it 
again." 

The Butterfly looked furprifed, for 
though capable of that attachment 
which proceeds from finding an agreeable 
companion ; and with (bme idea of the. 
fervices beftowed upon thofe we Iove 5 
and which endears the name of friend, 
he could not imagine that any pleafure 
could arife from fpending his time in 
labour ; but as long as his friend had 
aflured him of the continuance of his 
regard, he was defirous that he mould 






obtain what he wifhed, and willingly 
offered to affift him in the fearch. 

During their airy rounds they often 
flopped to refrefh themfelves on fome 
favorite flower, and though feldom fixing 
on the fame, and to a cafual obferver did 
not appear to be at all connected, they 
were never out of fight of each other. 
It was from one of thefe refting places, 
in which the Bee was delightfully em- 
ployed extracting fweets from an " ex- 
tended field of blofTomed beans," that 
the Butterfly flretched his wings to a 
neighbouring garden ; here fuch vari- 
ous beauties met his eyes that he could 
not help returning to call his friend to 
enjoy them with him. " Such a bed 
of tulips, I have met with," faid he, 
" whofe fplendid colours can only be 
equalled by my wings ; pray come, and 
fee what lovely flowers/' 



(( Have you not yet learnt that 
there is fomething more valuable in a 
flower than its colour?" returned the 
Bee,, with a f mile ; " for my part I 
would prefer thefe honeyed beans, 
though I fuppofe you would think 
them hardly worth looking at, but of 
all other flowers tulips have the lead 
fweetnefs about them, and are fit only 
to pleale the eye of thoie men and but- 
terflies who judge only by appearance; 
but though I have feen the formeradmir- 
ingabed of tulips, Ihave often obferved 
that if they wifti to ornament themfelves, 
or their houfes, the flowers which we 
chiefly prefer are alfo the objecls of 
their choice ! as for thefe beans, though 
I believe they admire their fmell, men 
are, as I faid before, fuch deftruclive 
creatures, that while they are enjoying 
what is fweet they are at the fame time 




deftroying it; and as they expecl fome- 
thing {till more valuable from thefe 
flowers, they are content to let them re- 
main upon their ftalks; but we can have 
our fill of their fweets, and yet not injure 
what they will hereafter produce. Oh ! 
had I but a hive to go to/' continued he, 
as he ftretched his wings to accompany 
his friend, " how many times mould I 
have gone thither yefterday, and to-day 
from the cowflips and the beans, and 
what repeated loads mould I have car- 
ried home." 

" Surely, furely," thought the idle 
Butterfly, " you need not regret that ; 
to fly hither and thither as you like, 
with no incumbrance of any kind, and, 
nocare beyond to-morrow, is far better; 1 ' 
fo thought the Butterfly, and fo perhaps 
think many Butterflies of the human 
race; but he forbore to repeat his 





fentiments on this fubjeft, for, uncon- 
fcious to himfelf, he was awed by the 
fnperiority of his friend/ while he 
felt no wifh to be of tlie fame opinion. 
f: And fo tlaefe 3re the flower* von 
admire/' continues the Bee. as tiiey 
alighted, " and which can only be 
equalled in Beauty bv nonr wings? 
Ah, my dear friend, would not vour wings 
be juft asufefr' :; tu -y itfeffC or cover- 
ed with red and purple? look at the 
plain white ones of nuir' our 

race., who are now flying around us; you 
cannot extend your flight farther than 
fhefe; but fee, fome children are enter- 
ing the garden, I queicioa if you will 
not foon jiave a greater cauie to regret 
the beauty of your wings than to admire 
it, and that you will be the objeci of 
their purfuit as foon as you meet their 



eyes, while your plainer brethren will 
pafs unregarded." 

This prediction was foori verified, for 
no fooner did the littles ones perceive 
this felf-admiring Butterfly than they 
all exclaimed, " Oh ! what a beauty ! 
let us catch it." 

cs If you get on that fide of the bed, 
and / on this," faid a boy, who appeared 
lo be the eldeft of the party, " I will 
throw my hat at it, and we (hall foon 
have it in our pofTeffion." 

" Not for the world, mafter Henry," 
faid the maid, who accompanied them; 
" you would deftroy thofe beautiful 
flowers at once if you did, and your 
papa would be fo angry." 

" The flowers then are more admired 
than you are my friend," obferved the 
Bee, et for you fee the maid will not 
let the m be injured, not even to procure 





a fight of your dill more beautiful 
wings." 

" Don't laugh at me," replied the 
Butterfly, fomewhat mortified; " I am 
glad, however, that I have found a 
place of fafety; if I take care not to 
quit this ftation, they will not be able 
to get at me." 

Altho' it was his intention to remain 
there, his young purfuers would not 
let him be at reft, but with one thing 
and another lo contrived to fhake the 
flowers upon which he fettled, that, at 
laft, wearied out with thefe repeated 
removals, he took to his wings, and 
flew to a neighbouring rofe-tree. 

" Now, now," cried all the children, 
we fhall have it ; don't let it get upon 
the tulips again, and we fhall certainly 
catch it." 

The Bee lay all this time in the 




bell of a hyacinth, not unmindful of his 
friend, or his purfuers, but thinking his 
prefent alarm might be an ufeful evi- 
dence of what he had been faying, and 
a check to his vanity, he refolved to let 
him feel a little more of the dangerous 

o 

effe6t his much-admired beautv was 
likely to produce ; but after the young 
folk had given him one or two hafty 
flights round die garden, he came for- 
ward, and appearing in front of all the 
young ones, foon checked the eagernefs 
of their chace. 

" A Bee, a bee," exclaimed they, 
" take care, or it will fting you," while 
the poor trembling Butterfly began 
to take frefh courage on feeing his 
friend approach ; and, feating himfelf 
oa the branch of an honey-fuckle, 
endeavoured to regain his breath. 

The oldeft boy was now refolved to 





make one more etlbrt, and creeping 
fiowly to the place, put forth his hand 
to reach the prize, when the Bee. 
perceiving his intention, again darted 
before his eyes, and made him retreat. 
" Thank you, thank you, my dear 
friend/' Paid the poor Butterfly, ff fure- 
ly they will not attempt to purfue me 
any more; you muft have fufficiently 
frightened them." 

" I'll do fomething more than fright- 
en them if they do," replied the Bee; 
" they (hall feel what it is to enrage 
one of us ;" nor would thefe children, 
animated by the prefence of each 
other, give up their chace, till the 
Bee had abfolutely fulfilled his threat, 
by juft touching the hand of one of 
them with his (harp fting: and Oh! 
what a clamour was infiantly raifed by 
the whole party for this cruel a6l, as it 



was called ; the child cried, and the 
maid declared it was a lhame of the naf- 
ty Bee to fling one who never thought 
of hurting Mm :" while all the others 
gathered round their wounded brother 
to exprefs their pity and abhorrence 
of the deed; and while they retired from 
the garden to get fomething to alle- 
viate the frnart, our two friends were 
left to recover themfelves and congra- 
tulate each other on theirfafety. I ne- 
ver was fo near being taken in my life, 
and efcaped at laft," faid the Butterfly; 
cc but to you, my friend, I am indebted 
for my prefent liberty ; if you had not 
exerted yourfelf in my behalf I muft 
have been in their poffefiion; I tremble 
at the thought of it, and am complete- 
ly tired out in the chace they have 
given me." 

" Now, then, I hope you will acknow- 




ledge that your beauty is no real ad- 
vantage to you/' replied the Bee, 
" but till you are recovered I will vifit 
yonder beautiful acafia which feems 
to court my notice; befides, I am not 
without a hope that from it I fhall fee 
my ardently defired home ; I feem to 
remember its being near it." 

Our airy traveller fpoke this with 
peculiar animation, but on reaching 
the tree, his pleafure was ftill higher, 
for, from thence, he beheld the fpot 
he was in purfuit of; although many 
hives were near it, he could diftin- 
guifh his own from all the reft by 
a thoufand little marks known only to 
thofe who inhabit it. His heart beat 
with tranfport; it appeared to him 
the abode of peace and plenty, and 
it was within his reach alfo; the 
flowers on which he had refted was 




entirely di (regarded, and he flood 
gazing on the well known fpor, " flung 
with the thoughts of home." 

The endearments of his mother 
returned to his mind with double 
force, nor could he fear being well 
received by her, and if by her, all the 
reft he knew dared not ufe him diffe- 
rently; " I will acknowledge my difobe- 
dience to her commands/' faid he, 
ff and when fhe knows what I have 
gone through fhe will forgive me ; I 
fhall again receive her commenda- 
tions, and repofe my felf under her mild 
and equitable government/' 

With thefe thoughts he could fcarcely 
forbear flying away, and rufhing at 
once into the prefence of his friends; 
but lie recollected the poor Butterfly, 
and though there was nothing in 
their natures which could aflimilate. 





he ftill remembered that in a great 
meafure he owed his prefent health 
and ftrength to him; " when firft we 
met/ 1 continued he, " there was no- 
thing in me to induce his affection; 
I was poor, fick, and helplefs, and yet 
he was interefted for me, and (hall I 
leave him now ? no, I will return and 
tell him what I have feen, and that 
though for the future I mall refide 
with more fuitable afibciates, we may 
ftill often meet." 

Thus determined, he haftened back, 
with all the livelinefs of joy, to in- 
form his friend, who obferved his 
coming, and the cheerful air with 
which he approached; " I have feen 
my hive/' cried the Bee, without giv- 
ing him time to make the enquiry, 
" I have feen it ! come, won't you go 
with me, and at lead fee the place to 




which I am going to return, and though 
I cannot afk you to enter with me, (none 
but bees being permitted to come in 
there) I fhall never fee you when I am 
out of it without pleafure." 

ec My dear friend/' replied the 
Butterfly, <e after the kindnefs you have 
(hewn me this morning, it would be 
ungrateful not to rejoice in what 
gives you pleafure; I think I am now 
able to ufe my wings again, and will 
readily accompany you ; and though I 
know I muft ftand at an humble dif- 
tance while you enter, yet I (hall be 
anxious to hear how you are receiv- 
ed, and whether your old companions 
will forgive your leaving them." 

" I have but the difpleafure of one to 
fear/' replied the Bee, " and if fhe 
forgives me, the reft have nothing to do 
\vith it, nor have I much to apprehend 



from that quarter, fince the authority 
of a fovereign is tempered by the affec- 
tion of a parent." 

Thus converting they purfued their 
flight till arriving at a ihort diftance 
from the well-known hive, " Don't 
you fee it?" faid the Bee, fluttering 
his wings for joy; " don't you be- 
hold the welcome fpot?" 

" I fee a number of hives," return- 
ed the Butterfly, not quite ib enrap- 
tured as his friend, " but which is 
yours I cannot tell." 

" Mark the one into which I fly," faid 
the Bee, ff and then you'll know it." 

" But when fhall I fee you again ?" 
enquired the Butterfly in a melancholy 
tone, on feeing his friend preparing for 
flight; " to-day?" 

<e Perhaps not," replied the other; 
fe I may not be permitted to come 




out again, or I may be indulged with 
a day's reft, and converfation with ray 
mother, but do not fuflfer yourfelf to 
doubt my friendfhip for you, becaufe 
I do not fly out every hour and re- 
peat my profeffions of it ; to-morrow, 
at fartheit, I fhall renew my labours for 
the general good, and then if you like 
to accompany me in my flights, I mall 
be glad of your company." 

With thefe words he firetched his 
wings, while the Butterfly bade him 
farewell, and watching his approach 
and entrance to the hive, refolved to 
hover round the place in hopes of 
learning what reception he had met 
with. 

As the returning vagrant advanced 
towards the centre of all his hopes and 
fears, he felt the latter fenfibly encreafe, 
yet he could not but advance ; at firft 




he fettled on the block upon which the 
hive was placed, every part of which 
was perfect in his recollection > he ob- 
ferved no one near, for as it was now 
the middle of the day, almoft all were 
out, bufily employed, except a few, 
whom he knew were always on the 
watch to keep out every intruder; at 
length he ventured within the hive, and 
immediately all the humming inmates 
which were then at home flocked around 
him; fome concluded that he had mifla- 
ken his hive, while others imagined 
they could recollect his form and figure. 
" Do you not know me?" faid he, " I 
once belonged to your fraternity, and 
my heart is ftill knit towards you/' 

On hearing an unufual murmur the 

mother queen appeared, with all her 

attendant train, to enquire who the 

bold intruder was? The way was 



cleared for her approach, and a 
folemn lilence prevailed, while the 
ftranger, with unfeigned humility, an- 
fwered to the queftion. No fooner 
did her majelly know her returning 
child, than in one loud hum fhe ex- 
prelTed her fatisfaclion, and this was 
heard and attended to by all around, and 
prefently the general voice was that 
he mould be re-admitted. 

" I am not returned unto you 
fick, or unable to work," replied the 
delighted Bee, after he had expreff- 
ed his thanks for their generous re- 
ception of him ; and then related to 
his attentive and fympathyzing pa- 
rent all he had gone through fince 
he had fo rafhly left the hive, whilft 
the reft waited till the clofe of the 
day before they indulged their curio- 
fity by hearing it, nor did he forget 





to acknowledge that it was to the 
attention of a Butterfly that he owed 
his life. 

"A Butterfly/' returned the queen, 
whofe dignity felt hurt that any 
of her race fhould be indebted to 
fo trifling a creature, " fure you rnuft 
have been funk very low indeed,, to 
need the afliftance of a Butterfly." 

" I have learnt, my dear mother/' 
replied the young one, " that there 
is no creature., however mean, but may 
be of fervice fome time or other; the 
Butterfly is well aware of the great diffe- 
rence there is between us/' 

ft And fenfible, 1 hope, of the ho- 
nour done him, in being permitted 
to affift a Bee?" rejoined the mother. 

This important affair being fettled, 
though not entirely to the fatisfaclion 
of the queen, who while fhe forbore 





to fay more upon the fubjecl, refolved 
narrowly to watch the conduct of her 
fon, fearing he would gain too much 
of the frivolity of the Butterfly if he 
long affociated with him : and after 
Ihewing him a cell in which he might 
for the future refide, me left him to 
prepare it for his reception. 





CHAP. IV. 

" Think not that treachery can be just; 
" Take not informers' words on trust." 

GAY. 

As the winged inhabitants flocked 
towards home, laden with their honey- 
ed ftore, the return of the wanderer was 
announced to each; and the labors of 
the day being ended, they all gathered 
round him to hear the account of his 
adventures. 

In the mean time the Butterfly con- 
tinued without the hive, not unplea- 
fantly fituated, as a number of flowers 
were about the place, had he not been 
yet in fufpenfe refpefting his friend,, 
when, as he was juft going to give up 
all hopes of meeting with him till the 
next morning, he had the pleafure of 
feeing him come out upon the block, in 




company with two or three other Bees. 
" Will he fpeak to me now, that theft 
are with him," thought the Butterfly, 
and he fluttered round the place, half 
afraid that he ihould find the promifes 
of his friend forgotten; but not fo, the 
Bee,, (though perhaps he might feel a 
little at the opinion he judged would 
be formed by his prefent affociates on 
feeing him fpeaking familiarly to one 
fo much beneath them,) flew towards 
him, to tell him he had been well re- 
ceived, directing him to a place of fafe- 
ty in which he might pals the night ; 
" to-morrow," faid he, " we fhall meet 
again." 

The Butterfly was much pleated at 
this unexpected interview, and after 
thanking him for his attention, promif- 
ed to join him in the morning. The 
Bee then returned to his companions. 




and the Butterfly retired to the place 
which had been pointed out to him, 
and from whence he could fee the en- 
trance of the hive, and watch the com- 
ing of his friend when they were next 
to meet. 

I (hall now proceed to acquaint my 
reader with the future travels of our 
two friends, and without attending to 
the minute occurrences of each day, 
enter at once upon thofe events which 
more particularly belong to my defign. 
As foon as the fun was fufficientl} above 
the earth, the inhabitants of the hive 
haftened forth, eager to purfue their 
daily talk 

" Around, ath\vart, 

" Thro' the soft air the busy nations fly." 

And among the firft came our young 
adventurer, whom the Butterfly imme- 
diately prepared to accompany; though 




till he faw him a little feparated from 
the others, he did not prefume to ap- 
proach. a How do you do, my friend?" 
faid the Bee, as foon as he drew near; 
" are you inclined for a long flight to- 
day ? I have now a double motive to 
work hard, having a wifh to make up 
for my loft time, as well as to fhew my 
fenfe of gratitude for the reception I 
have met with from the friends I am re- 
turned to." 

ei 1 am willing to accompany you/* 
replied the Butterfly, '*' and am glad to 
fee you in fuch fpirits; but you are 
already eyeing fome of thofe beautiful 
flowers, and while you are engaged with 
them I will vifit the neareft cottage, 
and return before you have rimmed 
your talk." 

(e That's right," replied the Bee, 
" and tell me if you find the inhabi- 




tants as well, or as bufily employed, as 
I am going to be." 

The Butterfly departed, and on en- 
tering the window of the humble 
dwelling, he perceived a woman fweep- 
ing out the lower room,, " which 
ferved them for parlour, kitchen, and 
hall," and preparing the breakfaft ; 
three or four children were entrufted 
to the care of another fomewhat 
older than themfelves, and who was 
endeavouring to keep the little ones 
from entering, and interrupting their 
mother. The Butterfly was unnoticed 
by the woman, but no fooner did the 
children fee it, who (like all others, 
wanting what is denied them,) were 
peeping in at the door and enquiring 
when they might come in, than a little 
boy begged to enter, promising to catch 
it in a minute, and his entreaties at laft 





prevailed, though he did not find it 
quite fo eafy to take the nimble crea- 
ture as he had fancied. He had again 
and again to watch its fettling, and to 
experience difappointment in his en- 
deavour to fecure it; while the reft of 
the little ones were at the door eagerly 
looking on, and the mother fometimes 
fretting,, and fometimes laughing at his 
fruitlefs efforts; when all at once the 
eldeft girl gave notice of her father's 
approach to breakfaft. 

No fooner was this intelligence 
heard, than the Butterfly was fuffer- 
ed to reft in quiet ; the mother declar- 
ed that (C nothing was ready ;" fhe 
fcolded the child and blamed herfelf 
for being fo foolifh as to be flopped 
in the middle of her work by the 
chacing of a Butterfly, and before any 
*hing was in proper order the maf- 





ter entered, who by his rough voice and 
peremptory manner feemed determined 
to keep up the authority of that title. 
While he was grumbling at not finding 
his breakfaft ready,, and his children 
(landing filent around the table, the 
Butterfly, happy to efcape, extended 
his wings, and returned to his compa- 
nion, whom he found ftill employed at 
his accuftomed tafk. 

" Well, what difcoveries have you 
made/' enquired the Bee, " have you 
feen any one fo bufy as me ?" 

ct One was/' replied the Butterfly, 
laughing, " till I put an end to her 
work; a little humoured brat of a boy 
was fuftered to enter into the midft 
of it, and hunt me from one fide of 
the reom to the other, and this foolifh 
purfuant took the attention of the WO-T 
man, who flood with the broom in her 


hand, admiring the dexterity of her 
aukward cub, I fuppofe, till the ap- 
proach of the father was announced; 
then the fcene was entirely changed, 
the hunt was given over, and fhe was 
crofs with herfelf and every one elfe 
becaufe (he had been interrupted, 
which after all was her own fault ; the 
man came in (till more out of humour, 
and thus the houfe which at your firft 
entrance you might have imagined the 
abode of peace and domefiic comfort, 
was made direclly otherwife; and my 
harmlefs vifit, I dare fay, they would fay 
was the caufe of it; when to a reafon- 
able obferver it would be plain that the 
whole of his difturbance arofe from the 
wayward fancy of the child, the indul- 
gence of the mother, and the ill temper 
of the father : however, fuch is my hap- 
py lot, having wings, 1 could fly away 





from all their troubles, but thofe are to 
be pitied who cannot efcape them." 

" During your abfence," faid the Bee, 
" I have feen two friends in this gar- 
don, who appeared fo happy in thefocie- 
ty of each other that I am anxious to 
fee more of them, fuch friendfhip being 
rather rare among the human race, 
and as foon as I have carried home this 
load of honey, I intend to vifit the houfe 
I faw them enter." 

" Do, do/' replied the Butterfly, 
pleafed to find his friend could attend 
to any thing befides his work, ec and 
while you are thus engaged, I will 
amufe myfelf with an old acquain- 
tance or two whom I fee yonder." 
With thefe words they parted for a little 
while, promifing to meet again in the 
fame place, and to which the Bee re- 
turned long before the fluttering But- 


terfly, who had flown to a neighbouring 
field, and there among the daifies and 
king-cups with which the ground was 
nearly covered,, he continued with his 
former afibciates nearly the whol e 
morning,, idly chacing each other in 
airy rounds till he had almoft forgot the 
engagement he had made, and was flill 
lefs inclined to regret his living an idle 
life. " I am not born to work," faid he, 
<e and if the place I fill in the world is 
not of fuch importance as my friends, 
as a Butterfly I have an equal right to 
live, and to follow my own inclination j" 
he therefore returned to meet him with- 
out an apology for being behind the 
time, and on finding him bufily em- 
ployed, and nearly ready to take home 
another load, <c what," faid he, " you 
could not leave your favorite work to 
make your intended vifit ? furely you 




are too intent in gathering that food 
which I fear you will never be allowed 
to enjoy ?" 

" You are miitaken," replied the 
Bee, " I have been, and feen the two 
ladies, but they are no longer friends^ 
Oh what fickle creatures thefe men 
and women are ! young and old, they 
are all changeable alike. One was 
fitting at an open window, and the 
other walking up and down the room 
apparently much diftreffed; u whatnot 
one word ?" faid me to the other; " I did 
not mean to offend you/' 

No anfwer was returned, and me 
continued to exprefs her forrow, 
which was received with the utmoft 
indifference; at length fhe made ano- 
ther attempt, and offering her hand 
to her offended friend, Ihe faid, 
*" f Come, -Charlottr, will you not be re- 
conciled ?" 




This alfo was equally di (regarded, 
and the feelings of the poor offender 
feemed entirely altered; fhe no lon- 
ger folicited forgivenefs, but left the 
room, faying, " It is not neceffary for 
me to acknowledge more ; you do not 
treat me like a friend; talk no more of 
your regard for me." 

As foon as fhe was gone the other 
began Tinging, as loudly as fhe could 
raife her voice, though the words fhe 
uttered now, fo far from being in 
unifon with her mind, as exprefTed in 
her countenance, that I could not help 
fmiling; they were defcriptive of con- 
tent and felf-fatisfaclion, neither of 
which I think Jlie could at that time 
feel. 

' On leaving her, and entering ano- 
ther window, I was forry to fee the 
oiae I had been interetted for in 
earneltconverfation with a third perlbn, 




, pitying her dejecled and melan- 
choly appearance, afked if fhe might not 
attribute it to the ill humour of her 
friend, and while her mind was thus hurt 
with the treatment fhe had received, 
drew from her a complaint which per- 
haps fhe would not have made at any 
other time. et She does not deferve 
your regard," faid the ftranger, " and 
you give up too much to her; if you 
continue to do fo, fhe will by and bye 
expect you to fay or do nothing but a s 
fhe direcls; and her friendfhip for you 
can never be real if fhe requires fuch 
fubjeclion." 

" Thefe are very odd things," 
obferved the Butterfly ; cf we poor 
infignificant creatures never have any 
thing of this fort; if we aflbciate toge- 
ther, we do not fpend our time in 
complaining of each other." 



" 1 have not done with them yet," 
returned the Bee, " but mean to pay 
them another vifit, and I fancy lhall 
fee flill more reafon to conclude 
that thefe wonderful creatures,, whom 
the animal race hold in fuch refpecl, 
are not fo fteady and conftant in their 
conduct and purfuits as either they, 
or we, the (till meaner infect tribes, 
are, though I muft fay thofe of the 
latter order are not in fo much awe 
of' them. We do not fly from them 
if they come in our way, but in many 
things confider them as furfervient to 
us, and that which they look upon as ex- 
clufively their own, and which a cat or 
a dog would not venture to touch, we 
have mod likely made many a meal 
from before it comes to their table." 

A few days after this, the Bee renew- 
ed his vifit, as he had propoied, and 




there was aftonifhed to fee the very fame 
third perfon now engaged with the 
other lady, and relating to her with 
many exaggerations all that her offend- 
ing friend had repeated to her, while 
fmarting under the efFecl of her ill hu- 
mour, though all the pains fhe took to 
draw it out of her, and the encourage- 
ment with which me liftened to her com- 
plaint, were entirely omitted in the re- 
cital. " Only think of this/' faid the 
Butterfly, on hearing an account of his 
friend s fecond vifit. " Is this the ufe 
they make of the power of fpeech, 
and which they imagine fets them fo 
completely above the animals? furely 
they had better be without it, than ufe 
it to fuch a purpofe ; but what will be 
the end of this? will not the eyes of the 
two friends be opened, think you ? and 
they will leave the acquaintance of that 




mean incendiary, who, under fuch a 
Ihow of friendfhip, endeavours to widen 
the breach between them ?" 

" Perhaps not/' replied the Bee, 
" Their conducl may yet want that con- 
iiftency ; I hope they will be reconciled 
to each other, but I doubt whether they 
will give up this perfidious acquain- 
tance, though the more their regard 
for each other increafes, the more muft 
their contempt for her be increafed. I 
queftion. alfo, if the tdejhe has this day 
told will not rankle in the breaft of the 
hearer for many future years,, and whe- 
ther there will ever again be that mutu- 
al confidence in the two friends which 
once appeared." 

The next houfe they faw, the Butter- 
fly entered alone, as the Bee obferved 
lome flowers at a diftance which ap- 
peared more worthy of his attention. 




While he was busily employed in ex- 
tragting their sweets,, his friend return- 
ed laughing, ' ' Oh ! said he, 1 wish you 
had been with me. Smile no more at 
the regard I shew to outward appear- 
ance; why there is a young man who is 
storming and raging about the house, 
because his neckcloths and shirts are not 
brought home so nicely as he expeded, 
and he is throwing them from one end 
of the room to the other, while the poor 
woman, who has, perhaps, been working 
hard to make them what they are, 
stands trembling before him, as if she 
had committed the greatest trespass in 
the world. The beauty of my wings^ 
if once destroyed, is lost for ever, but 
these evils, if they are any, are soon 
remedied ; and, at the next house/' 
continued he, <e is another instance of 
the vanity of the sex; there is a boy who 





has got a new coat just brought home 
from the taylor's, and because the day 
is rather lowering, and his father won't 
let him wear it out, he is determined 
not to go out at all, and he is now sit- 
ting in his own room with the coat on, 
though there is no one but himself to 
admire it. I have seen females carry 
their fondness for dress as far as this/* 
continued he, " but I thought men 
and boys were above such vanity; I 
declare I am half ashamed of them." 

At this moment a heavy shower came 
on, and the Butterfly hastened to the shel- 
ter of a large leaf on a cucumber bed, 
where also the Bee was obliged to se- 
cure himself, nor could he take home 
the honey he had gathered till the rain 
had ceased. 

On his return, he found the Butterfly just 
ventured from his retreat, and stretch- 
ing his wings, he was enquiring of 





one of his own species, " if their qo. 
lours had received any injury ?" 

The Bee heard the enquiry, and 
though he believed his friend would not 
have made it had he thought him 
within hearing, he was not now so in- 
clined to laugh at him as formerly on 
account of it, fe for/' said he, " since 
I have heard such instances of vanity in 
a race so superior, I can forgive it in a 
Butterfly/' 

Qn finding that the drops still con- 
tinued on the flowers, so as to prevent 
his gathering any thing from them, 
he determined to return to the hive, 
and there assist in forming some cells 
with the wax he had been busy in 
procuring, though the Butterfly was 
earnest in desiring him to take an after- 
noon's flight with him, (f and enjoy a 
little pleasure/' 



The Bee smiled at what his friend 
called by that name; <c my enjoyment 
is to be usefully employed/' said he, 
tf and to receive my mother's approba- 
tion; but as I know this is a plea- 
sure you cannot understand, I would 
not wish to deprive you of what you 
can enjoy ; go, therefore, and take 
your fill of it while you may, and to- 
morrow perhaps we may meet again. 31 

His friend departed with this en- 
couragement, yet not able to compre- 
hend why all creatures did not find a 
pleasure in the same thing, though to 
the eye of reason such a distinction of 
enjoyments in the various objects of 
creation, is an evident token of the 
Wisdom with which they are formed, 





CHAP. V. 

" If chance a mouse came in her sight, 
" She finely counterfeits a fright, 
" So sweetly screams if it come near her, 
" It ravishes all hearts to hear her. J> 

SWIFT. 

THE next day the Bee had taken 
home two or three loads before his 
friend made his appearance, who, when 
he came, expressed his surprise at find- 
ing him where he was. " 1 have been 
in such a beautiful conservatory/' said 
he, " and surely I saw you there, al- 
most buried in the heart of a flower; 
and so intent were you upon your la- 
bour, that you would not even answer 
me when I called; there must certainly 
have been something very attractive to 
have kept you there so long, but how 
you got here before me is what I most 
wonder at." 



" I don't understand you," returned 
the Bee, " I have been in no conserva- 
tory, the utmost of my flights to-day have 
been from the hive to this place." 

" And have you really been no 
\vhere else ?" said the Butterfly in asto- 
nishment; <c why I never saw anything 
$o like you in my life; I concluded 
that you were so buried in the flower 
that you did not hear my call, or was 
unwilling to- move, lest you should 
plarm some ladies and gentlemen who 
were very near you," 

" I think I can tell what has deceiv- 
ed you," returned the Bee, fl you have 
seen a Bee-Orchis, as they are called, a 
flower .which bears both the form a~nd 
resemblance of our species. And so 
you really took it for me ?" 

'" If it was not yourself," replied 
the Butterfly, Cf and you wish to see 
your own likeness, pray come with me, 





and behold it; for never did I see one 
Bee so like another, as that flower is 
like you." 

" I have known many of our young 
ones who are not acquainted with it, 
said the Bee, tf so deceived by the re- 
semblance, that if they happen to meet 
with one, they pass it by, thinking, that 
one of their fellow-laborers is engaged 
there already ; but if you will fhew me 
the spot I will not be so put off." 

So saying, he followed the Butterfly, 
who was immediately on the wing; and 
soon arrived at a very large house, one 
end of which formed the conservatory. 
The fragrancy of the flowers it contain- 
ed, the great variety of them, and those 
of the most delicate nature, made the 
Bee clap his wings for joy. 

" Why, my dear friend," said he, 
" you have brought me to a treasure, 
house indeed; a store of sweets, I can 





hardly forbear returning to call all my 
companions to share it with me ; I am 
sure there would be work enough for 
the whole hive were they here." 

While he was thusexpressinghisdelight., 
the Butterfly was searching for the flower 
he had noticed before,, hardly satisfied* 
till he had the testimony of his own eye- 
sight in seeing them together, that his 
friend had told him the truth; however^ 
when he discovered it, and saw the Bee 
still flying about in admiration, he wa s 
obliged to acknowledge he had been 
wrong. 

The Bee employed himself here for 
some hours, during which he had gone and 
returned from the hive several times, 
bringing with him a few of his compa- 
nions, who were attracted by the account 
he gave of this charming place; the 
Butterfly also met with much to amuse 
him, and continued uninterruptedly to 





enjoy themselves, till, as the evening 
advanced, they resolved to visit some 
other part of the house, and the But- 
terfly led the way to the dining parlour, 
where some ladies and gentlemen were 
sitting after dinner, with a variety of 
fruits and wines before them. The at- 
tention of the Bee was immediately 
attracted by a very fine peach one of 
the ladies had just taken on her plate, 
and little thinking of the consequence 
of his temerity, he flew towards it : the 
lady screamed, and pushed back her 
chair, while the company eagerly en- 
quired the cause* 

" Oh, a Bee !" exclaimed she, '< I 
am frightened to death if I see one." 

" And I," said another, who sat op- 
posite to her, (e shall faint, if it comes 
near me; I really cannot bear it in the 
room." 

At this moment the Beei as if de^ 





sirous of seeing whether she spoke 
truth or not, flew directly across the ta- 
ble, and alighted on her head. 

" Oh where is it ?" said she, jumping 
off her seat, " I am sure it is on me ! 
dear Mr. Wippersnap," addressing the 
gentleman who sat next her, " for 
goodness sake take it off! what shall I 
do ?" 

While the other lady sat fanning to 
recover her alarm, and the rest of 
the party with anxious looks watched 
the motions of the bold intruder, the 
gentleman, proud of his superior cou- 
rage, " begged them not to be alarmed, 
for he would destroy it in a moment;" 
and giving it a gentle touch to drive it 
from its present station, he began the 
attack with an open knife he held in his 
hand, professing that he would cut it 
asunder at one blow; his blows, however, 
were not so decisive, for though he 





aimed several, the Bee contrived to es- 
cape them all. 

At this one or two other gentlemen, 
with more regard to the imaginary feel- 
ings of the ladies than to the reality of 
those belonging to the Bee, raised the 
same weapons in their defence, but all 
their efforts served only to exasperate 
the object of their rage, while the But- 
terfly sat trembling under the most cruel 
apprehensions for his friend's safety. 

During this alarming battle the ladies 
were happy to leave the room ; and no 
sooner were they retired than the fight 
was over, he weapons of war were laid 
aside, and the enraged Bee suffered to 
rest upon the table, and recruit his 
strength : his fierce opponents declared 
they were never so foiled before, till 
one, less courageous than the rest, wise- 
ly, as he thought^ turned an empty wine 




glass over him, and thus was* our unfor- 
tunate adventurer again in a close con- 
finement. The Butterfly was now 
alarmed for his friend from another 
cause, and feared the want of air would 
be too much for him. 

" Cruel monsters/' said he to himself, 
as he observed the gentlemen draw 
their chairs closer to the table, and fill- 
ing their glasses appeared determined 
to suffer no other interruption to their 
cheerfulness; " do they call themselves 
humane, who can leave a poor creature 
in that situation, and after they have cut 
and slashed at him in such a manner, 
that if their dexterity had been equal to 
their will, they would not have left a 
whole bone in his skin. Oh ! that I 
had the sting of a thousand Bees, 1 
would use them all to revenge his cause." 

With these words he fluttered round the 




table, and viewed his friend (who lay 
motionless at the bottom of his transpa- 
rent prison ) on every side; " he will 
certainly die," thought he, " if he is 
not dead already. Oh my friend ! \\ould 
that I could release you ! but the at- 
tempt would be fruitless." 

The gentlemen were too agreeably- 
engaged to observe the anxious Butter- 
fly,, who every time he saw them ex" 
tend their hands towards the place, ho- 
ped some little compassion had touch- 
ed their breasts, and that they were 
going to liberate his friend; but no 
tuch thing, the evening closed in, 
and he was ^et in confinement, till 
the tea being announced, the gentle- 
men jumped up to attend the ladies, 
and soon after the servants entering- 
to take away the bottle and glasses, 
give the poor prisoner an opportu- 





nity to escape. The window was still 
open, upon the edge of which sat the 
expecting Butterfly, but it was some 
time before the Bee, who had been in- 
sensible the greatest part of the time, 
could so far recollect himself as to know 
where he was, or who was waiting for him, 
On seeing him slowly crawling on the 
table, the Butterfly concluded he was too 
much hurt to fly, and coming towards 
him, with the utmost tenderness he said, 

fe Oh ! my friend, are you not cruel- 
ly wounded ?" 

" Not so much as I expected,'* re- 
turned the Bee, greatly revived at the 
sight of his old companion. " I am 
very stiff from the blows I have received, 
but luckily my wings are not hurt: 
pray lead the way from this detested 
spot, and I will follow with the greatest 
pleasure." 





With this request the Butterfly 
gladly complied, rejoicing to hear his 
friend speak so cheerfully, who was 
no sooner out of the house than he beg- 
ged to rest upon a neighbouring tree. 

" You have been very roughly 
handled/' said his friend, " by these 
superior sort of people; I had hoped 
better things of them 3 because they are 
called so,, but I do not find their hearts 
are better, or their conduct towards us 
less reprehensible than those of a lower 
order; but why did you not use your 
sting, my friend ? 1 think it then would 
have made even those courageous gen- 
tlemen sound a retreat." 

" I am very careful of extending 
that/' replied the Bee, " as it is very 
seldom we can use it to any advantage 
without leaving it in the wound, and 
that in general is fatal to us ; a gentle 
touch is sufficient in our defence, 





but here it would have had no effect 
but to enrage them still the more, and 
I must either have died by their hands, 
or soon afterwards by losing it; but what 
a fuss the ladies made at my approach, 
did they not ? did you ever see any thing 
so foolish, as all to run away from my 
presence? Why many of their fellow- 
creatures, whom they judge inferior in 
education and ideas to themselves, 
would have been ashamed to have act- 
ed so/' 

(S If you are inclined to put them to 
flight again/' said the Butterfly, <( I 
think I see the same party in the room 
above." 

tf No, I thank you/ 1 returned the 
Bee, " I must hasten to the hive as fast 
as my bruises will let me ; they will be 
quite alarmed at my being out so late, 
or feucy that my old fondness for wan* 





dering is come on again, and I should 
be sorry that should be their opinion; 
besides/' continued he, shrugging his 
shoulders, " I have had enough of the 
company of ladies and gentlemen for 
to-day, though no doubt I lost much 
entertaining conversation during my 
captivity." 

" I believe not/' replied the Butter- 
fiy, tc for my part I heard them say very 
little else than " the bottle is \vith you 
Sir," and " let us have another;" and 
" will you give us a toast, Sir ?'' 

te And is it thus these men of educa- 
tion converse together?' replied the Bee; 
<f I am astonished at it, but were we 
to sit and talk of it the whole of the night 
we should not make them better; we will 
therefore go home; 1 have only to say 
that I am glad I have escaped their ma- 
lice, and am obliged to you, my friend, 





for the affection which prompted you to 
stay for me ;" and now extending their 
wings they soon arrived at the hive, 
which the Bee entered, and accounting 
for his late return received the congratu- 
lations of all his companions on his safety. 

The Butterfly found a resting- 
place near it, and the next day met his 
friend with anxious enquiries of " how 
he found himself?" The Bee was still 
stiff, and felt too much of the ill effects 
of his last visit to wish to accompany 
him on another, at present,, therefore he 
remained but just without the hive, and 
left the Butterfly to make ' the voyage 
of observation' by himself. In the 
evening, as they again met, he enquired 
into the result of his rambles. 

" I am more and more astonished at 
the weakness of mortals," returned the 
Butterfly, " and am convinced that a 




Jine lady will believe any thing, and will 
be pleased with the greatest nonsense, if 
said to her by way of compliment; 
though I have visited but one house to- 
day, and that was with one of my old 
acquaintance, with whom I flew about 
till we chaced each other into a spa- 
cious drawing-room, in which sat a 
young lady, who was endeavouring to 
lay the imitation of flowers upon a 
small table; I believe they call it paint- 
ing, and it was nearly finished ; a gen- 
tleman sat by her, and seemed to ad- 
mire every stroke of her pencil, though 
for my part I could not see any thing 
so very admirable in it; the colours, to 
my eye, were put on very roughly, and 
I could not have thought he would have 
paid so ill a compliment to her under- 
standing, as to suppose she would have 
believed him, when on our .settling on 




them after we had sported round the 
room, he declared that we took them 
for natural flowers." 

" And did she believe him ?" asked 
the Bee. 

" She smiled," returned the Butter- 
fly, <f and seemed very much pleased ; 
and it is certain that she did not contra- 
diet him, though she soon drove us 
off again, fearing, I suppose, that we 
should discover the deception ; but we 
had done that long before, and only 
fixt ourselves there because it was the 
nearest place to rest on. After this we 
flew out, and met with other compa- 
nions, and I don't know how it was, but 
the day seemed gone before we were 
aware; however, we have enjoyed our- 
selves without interruption, and you, I 
hope, are better able to pursue what 
affords you pleasure, than when I 
left you in the morning?'* 



" I am recovering very fast, ' re- 
turned the Bee, " and it is quite ne- 
cessary I should, for I believe a won- 
derful change is soon to take place in 
my circumstances, and you must not 
be surprised if you should not see me 
in this neighbourhood much longer." 

" What do you mean?" enquired the 
Butterfly, half alarmed, though he knew 
not from what cause; " you are not go- 
ing to hide yourself from me, are you?" 

< c No/' returned the Bee ; " our 
movements cannot be hid, we shall make 
noise enough about it, but I am not at 
liberty to disclose the secrets of the 
hive; to-morrow, perhaps, if you keep 
a good look-out, and the weather is fine, 
you may see what will unravel this mys- 
tery; in the meanwhile assure yourself 
of the continuance of my friendship, 
anddo not think, after the attention I 



 

experienced from you last night, and 
on a former occasion, I can forget you." 
With this assurance the ButterflysufFer- 
ed his friend to depart without making 
any farther enquiry, and sheltering 
himself for the night under a large hol- 
ly-hock, resolved not to let the sun arise 
without his awaking to observe the 
movements of the Bee, and his compa- 
nions; and, if possible, to find out the 
meaning of what he had heard. 





CHAP. VI. 

" When nought but balm is breathing through 

the woods 

" With yellow lustre, bright, that the new tribes 
te Visit the spacious heavens, and look abroad 
" On Nature's common, far as they can see, 
" Or wing their range and pasture " 

THOMPSON. 

THE next morning all was bustle and 
activity in the hive at a very early 
hour, and the Butterfly also arose, and 
shook his wings, determined to let no- 
thing escape his observation which could 
discover the occasion of it: but though 
there seemed much noise within, no 
one came out; and, after waiting a great 
while, he began to think that nothing 
particular, was intended by what his 
friend had said, or that some confusion 
among themselves prevented their put- 
ting it in execution. He frisked about 





among the flowers, yet still contrived to 
keep the hive in view; till at length he 
saw a Bee advance, whom, from her ma- 
jestic appearance, he concluded was 
the queen ; a number of attendants im- 
mediately followed her; and, among 
the rest, his friend. She turned as if to 
take a last look at the home she was 
about to leave for ever, and on seeing 
multitudes of its inhabitants flocking 
out, as fast as the narrow entrance 
would allow, appeared to glory in the 
exulting throng; till raising her wings 
she led the way to seek some other ha- 
bitation. Immediately all the train fol- 
lowed her example, and the air was 
filled with the numerous retinue; who, 
by the noise they made, Appeared to 
vie with each other in paying her re- 
spect. All were earnest in their endea- 
vours to get near her, and to the eye of 





the Butterfly,, who followed at an hum- 
ble distance, they appeared a formida- 
ble phalanx; eager not only to prevent 
the approach of danger, but that even 
the eye of a stranger should be fixt 
upon her. Presently a crowd of peo- 
ple, from the neighbouring houses, 
came running towards them, with pot- 
lids in their hands, with which, as the 
whole body were slowly hovering round 
the trunk of an old tree, they endea- 
voured to drown their humming noise 
with a much louder one of their own; 
and this, from what they said, and their 
calling for the hive, the Butterfly learnt 
\vas to make them sooner settle. All 
this time it would have been difficult to 
have said who watched their motions 
most attentively, the men and women, 
or the Butterfly. As soon as her offi- 
cious attendants would give her an op- 
i 




portunity, her majesty fixt her feet 
upon a projecting branch, and happy 
were those who could cling the closest 
to her. All were now as desirous of 
fixing with her, as before they were of 
flying; and when they could no longer 
see or touch this sole object of their at- 
tention, they were still eager to press, 
and hang upon each other, as if pleased 
to touch but the back of a bee, who per- 
haps touched another that had hold 
of their Queen. 

The noise now ceased, and the bees 
were suffered to hang, unmolested, fon 
nearly an hour, in a large round clus- 
ter; still and motionless, as if no life 
or power was in them. Their pro. 
ceedings were so entirely new to the 
Butterfly, that, had not his friend beer 
amongst them, he should have wished t< 
see the end; but he saw a man approach 





whose face and arms were entirely 
covered, and placing a new hive under 
them, he shook the branch till the 
whole united body fell into it. A 
cloth was then thrown over them, and 
he bore it away in triumph. 

ee And will they suffer themselves to 
be thus taken ?" thought his attentive 
observer, as he eagerly extended his 
wings to follow the man ; <c will they 
be content to remain in that desolate 
habitation without a cell, or any provi- 
sion in it? no, no; the man will soon 
perceive his mistake," continued he, as 
he saw him place it on a block, which 
had been before prepared for it, " as 
soon as they can get their liberty, they 
will return from whence they came." 
However, it was himself, and not the 
man, who was mistaken; on the whole, 
the Bees liked their new abode very 





well; and it was not till the next day 
that he saw any of its inhabitants com- 
ing out in search of food; when he met 
his friend, who asked him "if he did 
not think he had given him notice of 
something worth seeing ?" 

fe I think I see that you have chang- 
ed for the worse/' returned the Butter- 
fly; " you have left a full hive with 
comfortable cells, and plenty of food, 
for one which is destitute of both !" 

" We shall soon get this as well 
stocked RS the other," replied the Bee; 
" but did you not see our Queen ? a 
sight of her is seldom had ; were you 
not charmed with her majestic appear* 
ance?" 

" Upon my word, no," said the But- 
terfly with a smile ; " but you must re- 
collect that I am not one of her nume- 
rous progeny; and to the eye of a But- 





terfly she is no more than another of her 
species; but why did you leave your 
home? is it grown old, and crazy ; or 
does it let the rain in ?" 

" I fancy we understand building bet- 
ter than for that to be the case," answer- 
ed the Bee, somewhat offended ; " but 
we were too full; weencreased so fast that 
there was not room for us all in one 
hive. We have therefore chosen ano- 
ther queen, in whom, by the bye, I am 
astonished that you see nothing to ad- 
mire ; and we young ones are come 
forth with her, to form another settle- 
ment. Happy shall we be to contribute 
to her tranquillity and comfort, and to 
supply her every want; while she is 
kind enough to permit us to call her 
ours, for the present ; therefore, you 
must not expect to see me one moment 
at leisure ; till we have, in some degree, 





given our abode the appearance of an 
habitation., we cannot be comfortable; 
\ve have already formed a cell for our 
beloved Queen, and a few others for 
her principal attendants; among which 
number, I am proud to say, I am; 
you must excuse me if I now leave you 
abruptly, as I am on the search for some- 
thing nice for her to eat." 

<e Proud, indeed," thought the But- 
terfly, as he saw jhis friend hastily de- 
part. " Why, I am hardly spoken to 
now this new queen is come in the 
way. Well," continued he, " I am glad 
we have no sovereign, in whose service 
we might spend our lives. Our time is 
our own, and we enjoy it as we like/' 
added he, clapping his wings, and flying 
off in pursuit of some companion as 
thoughtless as himself. The next morn- 
ing he returned very early to the hive 





in hopes of seeing his old friend, though 
he did not suppose he would allow him 
his company for more than a minute. 

ef We can converse together as we 
fly," said the Bee, who advanced to meet 
him, (C but I must fetch some honey 
for her majesty's breakfast; won't you 
accompany me? we still go on build- 
ing very fast, and wax is brought in 
great abundance for that purpose." 

" While you are thus employed, I do 
not expect to have much of your compa- 
ny,*' said the Butterfly, t: and have there- 
fore made an agreement with some of my 
old acquaintance to take an excursion 
into the country, and enjoy ourselves 
there for a few days. The summer is 
passing quickly away, and our lives, 
supposing no accident cuts us off, must 
end with it; we must, therefore, frisk 
while we may." 




" Certainly/' replied the Bee, "you 
were made for that purpose, and by the 
lime you return I shall probably be 
more at liberty; we have a great deal to 
do, but there is likewise a number of 
hands, all able and willing to assist;" 
and directing his friend to find out the 
hive when he came back, he wished him 
much pleasure, and thus they parted for 
3 short time, the one to play, and the 
other to work, though both equally 
pleased with the pursuit they were 
about to follow. 

The Butterfly soon after joined his 
gayer friends, and sailing high in air, 
they winged their way, to " range the 
forest's green retreat." 

" These thro* the tangled wood -walks play, 
" Where no rude urchin paces near, 
*' Where sparely peeps the sultry day, 
f ( And light dews freshen ail the air." 





Thussported the happy party, uninter- 
ruptedly enjoying the live-long day, 
and resting at night within " the lily's 
bell!" They skimmed the purple heath, 
visited the rivers' brink, and each day 
brought some new pleasure in their 
view, till at length the weather began 
to change, a cold wind blew, and there 
was every appearance of an approach- 
ing tempest; and now it was that the 
Butterfly began to think of his friend 
the Bee, and of his warm comfortable 
hive; though he knew he could not be 
admitted there, he felt that it must be 
very pleasant to have such an asylum 
to retreat to. Every one of his flutter- 
ing companions were now flying away, 
each desirous of finding a place of safe- 
ty for himself, and he still bent upon re- 
turning to his more steady friend, endea- 
voured to gain the way which led to his 




abode, though the wind was now so pow- 
erful that he could scarcely bear against 
it, or see the way he was taking. At this 
moment a stage-coach passed him, and 
though he did not know it would convey 
him from the place he was then in, he 
was glad to take the shelter it afforded, 
and flying in at one of the open win- 
dows he soon found a resting-place. 
After recovering from the disorder and 
confusion the rough wind had put him 
into, he had time to examine where he 
\vas, and noticed two young ladies, and 
an officer very gayly drest, apparently 
confined within this very small space. 

" What's this ?" exclaimed the gen- 
tleman ; " a Butterfly ! we want no such 
intruders here; ladies, are you alarmed? 
is the creature disagreeable ? 

" Let the poor thing alone," said an 
elderly man, whom the Butterfly had 





not observed before, " its as free to 
live as you are; 'tis true we have frivoli- 
ty enough in our cargo, but the horses 
won't feel this addition to it." 

" It has taken shelter from the 
storm/' said one of the ladies, not at all 
regarding what he said; " and if it does 
not settle on me it is welcome to re- 
main." The coachman now got ofitfiis 
box,, and opening the door, begged to 
know if there was room for a young wo- 
man, who was on the outside. 

" It rains hard," said he, " and she 
will be wet to the skin if she stays 
there." Instead of answering his en- 
quiry the officer, in a low voice, replied 
thus: " I say, who is this old fellow in 
the corner ? any one of consequence ? 
hey?" 

" Oh bless you, no Sir, he won't 
nrind hes coming in, if you don't/* 





" Mind her coming? no, I suppose 
not/' replied, he, " but the ladies are 
to be consulted; what say you ladies? 
have you any objection ?" They looked 
at each other as if hesitating for an 
answer, which the old gentleman ob- 
served, and immediately offered to get 
out, and let her have his place; at this 
the whole party seemed rather ashamed, 
and one of the ladies replied, " Oh dear 
BO! we only thought her clothes might 
be wet." 

" And spoil yours,, I suppose ?" re- 
turned the old gentleman rather rough- 
ly, " but I dare say you will have no 
objection to this young officer's sitting 
between you, and then she can take his 
place, and you will be in no danger." 

This proposal was readily acceded to, 
and the young woman cameinwithmany 
thanks, while the gallant gentleman 




seated between the two ladies declared, 
that f< if he did not incommode them 
he was the happiest man alive, and only 
wished that they were going to travel 
hundreds of miles together." 

<f An enviable situation truly," said 
the old man, with an air of contempt, 
and folding his arms, as if preparing to 
sleep; ff l,"said one of the ladies, " shall 
soon be at my journey's end," naming 
the place at which she was to be set 
down; " and I," replied the other, "am 
to go but one mile further. 3 ' 

" Oh! Heavens! and what shall I 
do then?" returned their admiring beau, 
" shut up in this place by myself; I 
shall certainly hang myself if I have 
an opportunity ! what lose such charflti- 
ing companions so soon ?" At this the 
ladies both smiled, and seeing such sort 
of conversation pleased, he plied therm 





with it very freely, while the old man 
slept, or pretended so to do, and the 
young women looked rather inclined 
to blush for those of her sex who could 
receive such flattery. 

When one of the ladies left the 
coach, the other seemed fearful that 
their complimenting admirer would 
hurt himself, in straining his neck to 
look after her, as she ran through the 
rain to a house which stood at a little 
distance from the road. On drawing 
his head in again, he praised her beauty 
exceedingly, till fearing he should car- 
ry his encomiums too high, so as to of- 
fend the other, whose countenance al- 
ready bespoke an approaching gloom ; 
he dissipated the very appearance of it 
in a moment, by " begging to know if 
they were not sisters, their likeness to 
each other was so great ?" This had the 





desired effect, for though she assured 
him they were not, yet if her compa- 
nion was handsome, and they were alike, 
she must be so likewise. To be handsome 
is as much as some people desire, 
thought the Butterfly, on observing her 
face resume a smile, " no wonder that we 
Butterflies should wish it." After some 
more conversation equally foolish, she 
also arrived at the place of her destina- 
tion, and the gentleman, not at all re- 
garding his other companions, again de- 
plored the melancholy situation he 
should be left in. 

As soon as the lady was gone, the old 
gentleman thus addressed him, " Young 
man, I think you have shown your folly 
whilst you have been attempting to 
hoax those women; that's the word, is it 
not?" 

" Poor country girls!" replied the 





officer, laughing, f( how pleased they 
were; they believed every word I said; 
they look as if they had never been be- 
yond their own country town, and yet I 
made one of them think that I suppo- 
sed she had lived in London all her 
life." 

"And where have you lived?"replied 
the old man, " to learn that there is 
any wit in making people appear more 
ridiculous than they really are ?" 

" Oh," said the other," they'll go home 
and talk of me for days to come ; I 
should not wonder if they expected to 
see me returning in search of them with- 
in a short time, as not being able to live 
out of their company." The old gen- 
tleman then turned to the young wo- 
man, who had sat a silent spectator like 
the Butterfly, and bade her take a lesson 
from what she had seen and heard, noj 




to believe what was said to her; "you 
may perhaps one day or other meet 
with an idle fellow," continued he 
" who may think proper to amuse him- 
self by talking thus, but do not you pay 
so ill a compliment to your own under- 
standing, as to sit with a simper on your 
countenance at whatever nonsense he 
may chuse to utter." 

The young woman expressed her 
thanks, while the disconsolate beau sat 
with his head half out of the window, 
as if wishing to avoid any farther con- 
versation. 

The weather seemed now cleared 
away, the wind and the rain had ceased, 
and the Butterfly began to prepare for 
flight. On seeing this the old gentleman 
said, " Ah, go, poor harmlefs creature, 
I am glad for your sake, andthisyoung 
woman's, that I have travelled this way 




to-day, or neither of you would have 
been v admitted.*' 

Our adventurer would have thanked 

him if he could, and leaving the window 

had the pleasure of seeing he was very 

near the place he wished to be in ; he 

saw some hives at a distance, and among 

them was his friend's abode, who, on 

seeing his approach, came to meet him, 

and to whom the Butterfly, after they 

had expressed their pleasure at again 

being together, related the adventures 

he had met with, particularly the way 

in which he had been broughtback, 

and many were the moralizing remarks 

occasioned by the recital of what had 

passed during his ride. 

" The race bf human beings must 
certainly be degenerated," observed the 
Bee, " since all other creatures were 
first put under their subjection, and in 





no other way can I account for the supe- 
rior conduct, and in many respects the 
superior wisdom also, of those whom 
they think so much below them/' 

The Butterfly then asked in what 
state of forwardness the new hive was 
in, and was happy to learn, that during 
his absence they had nearly completed 
the building within it, and that his 
friend was now ready to accompany 
him on his flights as usual. 



CHAP. VII. 

" Not all that tempts your wandering eyes, 
" And heedless hearts, is lawful prize, 
" Nor all that glitters gold/' 

GRAY. 

IN the course of the next day the 
two friends met again,, and while the 
Bee did not forget the more important 
work of gathering food for the approach- 
ing winter, he did not so earnestly pur- 
sue it as to make him unmindful of 
other things, 

" See here," said he to the Butterfly, 
as they flew towards a house whose open 
windows seemed to invite their en- 
trance; " let us go in, I think we shall 
meet with something worth our notice ?" 
The Butterfly hastened on, but no soon- 
er had he reached the window than 
turning back, he winged his flight ano- 




ther way, with much greater speed, cal- 
ling to his friend to follow him. 

" What have you seen that has so 
alarmed you?" enquired the Bee, as he 
hurried after him, <c what is in that 
house so very frightful ?" 

" It belongs to a naturalist" replied 
the Butterfly, fe and don't you know 
what detestable creatures these are? had 
he seen me I should have lost my life in 
the cruelest manner." 

fc A naturalist!" returned the Bee, 
<c I never heard of one, what does he 
do?" 

'' Do ?" replied the trembling But- 
terfly, fe why, he would tear me limb 
from joint if I was in his power, and yet 
endeavour to preserve my life only to 
try how much he could make me suffer; 
did you not see how many of my spe- 
cies were pinned up against the walls 




of his room, whose peculiar form or co- 
lour had attracted his attention ? he 
thinks nothing of taking the life of 
any thing he admires. Oh ! it turns me 
sick to think of it; had I flown one inch 
farther I might have been thus impaled, 
and you also; no doubt you would not 
have escaped his observation, and for 
the sake of your sting, or examining 
what you carry your honey in, you 
would have been quickly dispatched; 
various are the instruments he has got 
about him, and numberless insects does 
he daily destroy." 

" These are detestable creatures in- 
deed/' answered the Bee ; " what can't 
they be satisfied with viewing our forms 
as we pass along, but must they pull us 
to pieces, by way of admiration? I 
fancy when they have taken the most 
accurate survey, they could not make 





either a Bee, or a Butterfly; it is a pity 
therefore that they should destroy that 
life which they can never give. I de- 
clare the more I see of these human be- 
ings, and think of their cruelty, as 
well as absurdities, it makes me almost 
determine to quit the haunts of men, 
and if it ever should be my lot again to 
seek another habitation, I would use all 
my influence with my fellow Bees in 
order to remove to some wild wood 
where they might never find us." 

" You would be perfectly right,'* 
returned the Butterfly ; <f as for us, if we 
escape them one summer, we willingly 
resign our lives at the end of it, and 
led by instinct seek a place in which 
we die unlamented, and soon forgotten ; 
but this is not the case vfithyou; while 
you live you are useful, and at your 
death a whole society feels your loss; 




but look/' continued he, pointing to- 
wards a bottle that hung tied to the 
branch of a fruit-tree, in which were 
several wasps decoyed thither by the 
liquid it contained, and dying in the 
sweets they sought, " there is another 
instance of their malice, don't you see 
those poor creatures?" 

" Oh! yes," returned the Bee, ff and 
though I am no friend to wasps, who 
are often wishing to share the fruits of 
our labour, without having any right to 
them ; and in many things are striving 
to imitate us, though I believe their 
chief aim is to do mischief, yet I cannot 
justify men who use such mean arts to 
entrap them to their destruction ; but 
what is that I see in yonder window?" 
continued he with a hurried air, "some- 
thing that more particularly demands 
my attention, a Bee in distress ; and 




hark, he calls to me for assistance ;" so 
saying., without waiting for the Butter- 
fly to accompany him, he flew towards 
the place, where was a Bee nearly 
drowning in a pot of honey. " And 
one of my own hive too '."exclaimed he, 
as he drew nearer; " my dear brother, 
how came you in such a situation ?" 

(e Surely we are to see nothing but 
shocking sights to-day," observed the 
compassionate Butterfly, who had hasti- 
ly followed his friend, half afraid that 
something still more terrible had hap- 
pened, " bur," said he, on seeing the 
struggling captive, " he will not die; 
'tis certain he can keep his head above 
the edge till you have procured more 
assistance; I fear I am not strong enough 
to help to pull him out." 

While he was speaking, his companion 
had flown to the hive., and with incre- 


dible swiftness returned with more of 
the community, who altogether lent 
their aid, and after much toil and pains 
extricated the poor exhausted Bee from 
the ill effects of seeking too large a 
share of those sweets which only proved 
so, when moderately enjoyed, ' safe in 
themselves 'but dangerous in the ex- 
cess.' 

<c I only rested on the edge of the 
pan," said he, as soon as he could speak, 
" and after an unsuccessful flight was] 
glad to see a store of that which I had 
been so long searching for in vain; I 
thought I would just take a sip or 
two, and perhaps bring home a little of 
it to the hive." 

On hearing this one of the oldest of 
the throng thus addressed him : " Know, 
my brother, that what we make our- 
selves is only welcome there, and that 





food for which we labour hardest, is 
the sweetest to the palate of every in- 
dustrious Bee; idle drones and wander- 
ing wasps may sip the honey which 
others have prepared, but let the dan- 
ger you have escaped to-day teach you 
to use the powers nature has given you, 
and taste the sweets of your own procu- 
ring rather than that of others." 

The trembling Bee thanked him for 
his advice, and promising to follow it, 
he was escorted home by all the train, 
where he met with other assistants, who 
cleared away the clammy substance that 
still encumbered him, and he was suffer- 
ed to rest within all that day to recover 
himself. Meanwhile, the Butterfly waited 
without the hive, till his friend returned, 
and they renewed their flight. 

Nothing particular met their eye til! 
they passed some flies, who were round 



a piece of horse-flesh, the smell of which 
discovered where it lay, and its half 
devoured state shewed the avidity with 
which these buzzing insects fed upon it. 
" See," said the Bee, " what oppo- 
site natures are within the circle of cre- 
ation. These devouring flies find as 
much pleasure in eating from this stink- 
ing carrion, as from the choicest honey ; 
nay, perhaps this is more agreeable to 
them, though nothing in which they 
can thrust their devouring trunks es- 
capes their taste, but with this delicious 
morsel, that really poisons the surround- 
ing air, they are so delighted, that they 
even chuse it for an habitation likewise. 
Here they lay their eggs, and bring 
forth their young, and having no trou- 
ble to hunt for food for them, they 
spend their time in flying round it, till 
their habitation and provision being 





gone together, they are obliged to 
seek another residence equally conve- 
nient. " Though you bear the same 
name, my friend," continued he, " I am 
witness that you have not their nature." 
" Their nature!" interrupted the 
Butterfly, half offended at being men- 
tioned together, " no ! I hope not, or 
their name either ! what, shall the 
beautiful winged tribe of Butterflies be 
put upon a footing with these carrion- 
eaters, who live upon what, even in 
our crawling state, we should reject 
with disgust. If I may speak my opi- 
nion, I think their form, and the noise 
they make while flying, is more like 
your race than ours, though alas ! in one 
respect, I feel myself too closely allied 
to them, that is, I must shortly resign 
my being ; the date of my life will 
soon be ended; I have felt the chilling 



blast of the morning air long before 
you are out of your hive, and if you are 
not already aware of it, can give you 
notice that winter is approaching." 

" Indeed/" replied the Bee,, " I have 
seen some tokens of it myself; the 
flowers are not in such plenty, and as 
their faded leaves fall off, no young 
buds are seen to supply their place; 
however, such is the use which we have 
made of the summer, that we are not 
afraid to look forward to the time when 
every outward resource shall fail : but, 
my friend, I fear you are of too delicate 
a frame to live through the winter, 
though the place of your retreat be ever 
so warm ; but have you not thought of 
where you will retire to ?" continu- 
ed he. 

" A place to die in is easily found," 
replied the Butterfly, (t and you must 





not be surprised if you see me no more; 
the damps of the night will soon prove 
fatal, and I know not if I shall survive 
another. "" 

" Do not speak so," returned the 
Bee," " how gladly would I afford you 
an asylum if it was in my power; how- 
ever, I cannot let you resign your life 
so easily ; green leaves are yet to be 
found) and now, within our reach, I see 
a convenient crevice, into which you 
may creep; there cherish life as long as 
you can, my friend, and by only ventur- 
ing out when the sun shines brightly, 
you may perhaps extend your days be- 
yond their usual period, and have your 
name recorded, as a Butterfly who has 
survived the summer.' 1 

" Thank your kindness," returned 
fche short-lived insect, " my Jife has 
been already lengthened through your 





means, but you cannot renovate my 
nature ; may yours be extended." 

(C As long as it can be useful," said 
the Bee, interrupting him, ff but to you 
I owe all that I have gathered this sum- 
mer," added he; " for had it not been 
for your friendly and compassionate 
encouragement when first \ve met, I 
should have sunk a victim to the con- 
sciousness of deserved destruction; say 
not, therefore, that you have been of 
no use in the world." 

" I will not" returned the Butterfly, 
faintly fluttering his wings, as if with 
his last breath he was desirous of re- 
joicing it had been in his power to do 
good. 

From this time the poor Butterfly was 
still more sensible of the weakness of 
his frame, and flying towards the place 
hi* friend had pointed out, he entered, 





never to quit it more, " self-buried 'ere 
he died," for in the morning when the 
Bee visited the spot he was deaf to his 
voice, and his pitying friend had to la- 
ment the sudden change in one he had 
so very lately seen frisking about in all 
the gaiety of health and spirits. 

" Poor fly/' said he, " thou hast been 
faithful to me, and has even forgot thy 
wonted pleasures to afford me assist- 
ance; I will not leave thee to the de- 
vouring jaws of thy fellow insects, at 
least thy little body shall be preserved 
from being so destroyed," and with this 
resolution he spent one whole day in 
gathering wax, and stopping up the 
crevice which contained the remains of 
his friend all the return he could now 
make for his former kindness. After 
having given this last proof of affection, 
he returned to the hive, and there in 





the busy labors of the Commonwealth 
soon forgot the shock which the unex- 
pected death of his airy companion had 
occasioned. 

During that winter they were suffer- 
ed to remain unmolested, and as the 
ensuing summer approached, (accord- 
ing to the plan he had formed so long 
ago,) he proposed their taking a farther 
flight, and seeking a refuge in some 
solitary wood; e( I have seen more of 
mankind than you have, my friends," 
said he, " and have observed both their 
customs and manners; believe me, they 
are i nconsistent fickle creatures; their con- 
duct towards one another shows that they 
are not to be trusted; much more, then* 
have we reason to be afraid of them. You 
very well know it is in our power to live 
without their assistance; what is it which 
they procure us but just an empty shell 




for our habitation ? for this they expect 
our stock of honey, and to obtain it 
scruple not to take our lives! We have 
already seen, in the destruction of one 
or two of our neighbouring hives, the 
fate which awaits us; but could I per- 
suade all of my species to wing their 
flight beyond their reach, they might 
be taught a little more humanity, and 
would perhaps spare our lives, if we 
were again in their power. Content to 
share with us what our labours have pro- 
duced, they might then leave us to die 
when our exhausted nature fails, and for 
their own sakes also would not cut us off 
in the prime of life, and while we have 
health and strength to add to the stock, 
which would be as much for their bene- 
fit as our own." 

This speech had the desired effect; 
.the whole community seemed roused by 




it, and entering into his scheme, on the 
appointed day not a Bee was left be- 
hind, but altogether mounting the air 
they winged their flight far beyond its 
usual extent, nor could all the clattering 
of pots and kettles make them settle, 
till clear of the noise and out of the 
sight of man they found an habitation 
for themselves, and under the covert 
of a thick wood passed the remainder 
of their days in peaceful industry. 






CHAP I I CANNOT doubt but that all my youthful friends are well acquainted with the beautiful insect called a Butterfly yet it is not improbable that some are ignorant of the different states of its existence they have viewed its rich tints with admiration chased it for such beauty but never imagined that the object of their pursuit was once an insignificant worm from which they would have turned in disgust Such however is the nor let us pass over the useful lesson it conveys Supposing our form to be as unseemly as the butterflys in its early state we have it in our power to cultivate and adorn the mind vnth beauties far superior to the gaudy insects because lasting their charms are perishable and fade with the passing hour the charms of intellectual improvement bloom through life a constant source of gratification to ourselves and a certain passport to the esteem of the wise and good How much more valuable this kind of Approbation than the everyday praises bestowed on a pretty face tho would not prefer being a rational and amiable little boy or girl though plain in features to the gayest attired butterfly that ever sported among the fairest flowers The e2s from which these insects proceed are hatched by the sun a whose powerful rays bursting their prison walls set at liberty the grovel ing and helpless worm In this state it exhibits none of that activity so evident in the butterfly its motion is a slothful creeping pace in food green leaves This change is succeeded by one still more inactive they fold themselves as it were into a kind of case or covering and remahi a certain time in a complete state of torpidity From this second confinement they emerge in all their beauty no longer the sluggish pedestrian of the earth but the gay and airy traveller of the atmosphere There are day and night butterflies we distinguish the first by the slight texture of its wings which resemble a thin silk or gauze well adapted to fly during the heat of day The night traveller is more substantially clothed Nature has given it wings resembling velvet its little members are enveloped in a kind of fur It was on a sultry morning in July soon after sunrise that one of this gay tribe quitted the friendly shade of a laurel to sip the sweets of early dawn His fickle nature led him from flower to flower scarce had he tasted the dew of one when his roving eye caught the full drop pending from another and away he flew to enjoy it The garden however was not re markable for the variety of its productions it was a small piece of ground attached to a neat white cottage whose owners were too poor to possess a larger one and too industrious to spare much time in the cultivation of what they had To the subject of our history it was every thing he had seen no bet tor here he was born and here he expected to die tis true he felt the sameness of the scene but unconscious of the nature of his feelings he sought not to remedy the evil endeavouring to make the most of his situation nor leaving a flower wild or otherwise uritasted Tired at length of his own inconstancy he fixed upon a fragrant jasmine that crept over the front of the dwelling in wild luxunance and so exquisite were its sweets that he resolved to make his breakfast of them The opening of a casement just above his head interrupted the meal but perceiving he was not noticed he continued his repast during which his curiosity was particularly attracted by the conversation of a chubby boy and girl who standing at the open window were learning their lesson from the same book Though useless himself he could not forbear admiring the attention they bestowed on the allotted task questioning each other with the greatest exactness scarcely allowing a minute for breakfast which they took as they stood it consisted of a small basin of milk and some coarse brown bread Homely as such fare would appear to many young folks with whom I am acquainted these children unaccustomed to luxuries ate and drank with the keenest appetite nor seemed to covet better A female voice called them just as they had finished and our butterfly having nothing farther to divert him crept under a cluster of jasmine and sunk into a gentle slumber How loni he continued thus is uncertain He was aroused suddenly by a rude shock that nearly threw 7 him from his fragrant bed Agitated and confused he flew to the opposite side of the gar den and resting upon the broken pales surveyed with fearful eyes the spot he had just quitted to dis cover the cause of his alarm It was in fact no other than the hand of the little girl who according to her usual custom had plucked a sprig off the tree to adorn her bosom previous to her going to school Shortly after she came out of the cottage accompanied by her brother he carrying his book she her knitting and open ing the gate they proceeded up the green lane in which the house stood Their winged admirer looked after them with regret he had formed a most favourable opinion of them and wished to be better acquainted with them and to see where they were then iioing his wings expanded with his wishes he flew after them The girl stopped to add a hedge flower to her nosegay he failed not to follow her example he stopped too the flow ers were wild but sweet and being a novelty highly gratified his epicurism Keeping at a certain distance he followed the cheerful pair until they reached a very small hut much infe rior to their own the door was open and disclosed to our astonished traveller from fifteen to twenty children of both sexes seated in exact order upon low wooden benches Near the only window in the apartment sat the dame or humble mistress of the seminary her shrill voice and the buzz of her scholars somewhat intimidated and checked him He looked round for a shelter but no dainty blossom met his eye a few bushes covered with dust were alone in view Thus circumstanced he gladly availed him self of a pot of stonecrop which stood on the broad window frame here there was no temptation for the appetite but the scene within attract ed his notice sufficiently to banish self for a time The variety of countenances the studious attention of some the indolent attitudes of others and above all the proper conduct of his two little friends amused and excited the liveliest pleasure in the new visi tor Nor did the dame escape his observation her well mended gown of divers colours clean check apron and lilywhite cap gave him a strong idea of her cleanliness but there was a certain severity in her features heightened perhaps by her uncouth spectacles that made him keep aloof from her side of the window his preju dice however was greatly lessened when he heard her bestow unlimited praises on his favorite Phebe and her brother nay he ventured to rest a minute on the back of her chair while in this station he discovered a large beau pot of fresh flowers placed in a broken red teapot by way of ornament to the smoke coloured cbini tfey shelf A butterfly of the ton would have shuddered at the idea of sipping the sweets of the loveliest flowers if not elegantly arranged in a china vase but our novice was totally ignorant of fashionable life the dames teapot disgusted not his deli cate feelings he flew immediately to the luring spot and skipped from bud to flower with all the agility of nature His sportive movements at length caught the eve of an idler who directly communicated the intelligence to another dunce IC See what a beautiful butterfly cried the latter to a third and the news spread like wild fire Now of all the dames senses that of hearing was undoubtedly the keenest the general murmur did not escape her notice without raiding her head she lookeJ over her huge spectacles with an expression peculiar to herself and those who observed her were instantly mute and as quiet as mice Unluckily all did not profit by the warning a bold adventurer darted forward and threw his Primer at the unconscious in sect alas with aim too sure the stun ned victim fell senseless on the hearth This cruelty was beheld with just indignation by the watchful preceptress who immediately summoned the offen der to come forth in a tone of voice never disobeyed Cowardice and cruelty usually go together thus he who for sport had endeavoured to kill a harmless butterfly now shrank from the just reproof of his mistress After chiding him for his inhumanity and inflicting some smart strokes of a small switch upon his right hand that committed the deed he was placed in the middle of the room as an object of disgrace with both hands tied he hind his back to prevent his using them improperly again the good lady further observed that idle people were always doing mischief for want of better employment while the diligent seldom did wrong because never at a loss for something useful to fill up time without hurting themselves or others as an instance of the last she named Phebe and her brother Ned whose behaviour was not only a credit to her school but a pattern for every child present The objects of her praise blushed with genuine modesty others with shame yet all appeared to feel the justness of her commendation She then bade Ned take the butterfly gently by the wing and place it out side of the window to try if the fresh air might not revive suspended anima tion Ned did so and in a few minutes the ciame5 humane intc trerc rewarded by seeing the euted insect move and shake its wings though feebly A quarter of an hour had nearly elapsed before its strengtn permitted flight and then whither was he to go his recollection of the mornings route was too faint to venture on retracing it should he seek a new road what evils might he not encounter how many enemies all children were not Neds and Phebes his late narrow escape had proved this truth and the idea of the past made him shudder at the thought of remain ing where he was At this critical moment two of his species flew briskly across the road his spirits revived instantly in these thought he I shall surely find friends and stretching his feeble wings followed their course He was however ill calculated for ihe pursuit in a short time they were completely out of sight leaving him on a bind where he was compelled to rest Fatigue and anxiety produced a drowsiness and creeping into the heart of the flower he com posed himself to slumber and never had he required it so much From this repose he awoke much refreshed leaving his couch he alighted on the grass to enjoy the cheering beams of the sun now shin ing in his meridian glory The bloom ing clover which here and there had escaped the mowers scythe afforded him a rich repast nay he fancied it equal to his favorite jasmine and vas about making a vow never more to seek food from a higher source when a rude clamour struck his ear a swarm of urchins leaped a stile into the meadows among whom he was at no loss to discover his late enemy A bind is the wild Convolvolus His relish for clover induced not a moments stay his flight was immediate and so eager was he to escape that regardless of distance he con tinued his route for many minutes without stopping but at length tempted by the grateful odour of a honeysuckle whose fragrant flowers hung negligently over a long wall he descended on the inner side Attached as he certainly was to the sweets of life the anticipated enjoyment of this feast was quickly forgotten from the beauty of the scenery presented to his view He looked from one charming object to another only to increase his admiration At the extremity of an extensive and tastefully arranged garden stood a dwelling nowadays styled a cottage but how unlike the simple one of his morning friends or the crazy hut of the schoolmistress The shining white of its stone dashed wall was agreeably relieved by the shade of several stately elms labernums blend ing their drooping branches formed an arched entrance to the house which was still farther sheltered by a green viranda that extended from one extremity to the other a verdant lawn descended with a gentle slope to the garden this last was adorned with all that elegance could suggest or wealth procure Our amazed traveller knew not how to decide how to choose where every thing seemed perfect his eye wandered over the luxuriant scene without the power of fixing till perceiving several of his kind basking in the broad bosom of the sunflower he joined the party desirous of forming an acquaintance and also of profiting ii i iy their superior judgment He felt some degree of embarrassment listening to the conversation of these gay flutterers who were natives of the delicious spot and consequently well acquainted with all its productions His confusion was quickly discerned and perhaps might have exposed him to ridicule had not the beauty of his form and the glowing tints of his spotted wings announced his descent that he was of the peacocks eye species could not be denied however rustic his manners nor could some of the group forbear shewing certain traits of envy highly gratifying to his vanity and renovating to hs drooping courage The instruction he had meant to seek now appeared derogatory he determined to conceal his ignorance as much as possible and by follow ing the example of others to acquire fashionable if not useful knowledge It was now for the first time he heard condemned as vulgar those flowers on which it had heen his ut most wishes lo feed the bare mention of clover excited disgust in more than one while a slight commendation bestowed on the simple violet by an old butterfly of the skull tribe caused a general laugh at the speakers expence Truth obliges us to confess that such sentiments were perfectly in unison with his own but the fear of ridicule checked his avowing as much and he readily entered into the false opinion of his companions thus even an insect shrank from sincerity because he preferred the approbation of the weak and vain In the course of a few minutes he became tolerably sociable with two or three in whose company he per formed a tour nearly round the gar den never failing to extol those sweeis lio found were considered as liixuik vet secretly preferring the cottage was mine to many of them At sight of a delicate female the whole party were in motion nor was our beau backward in the pursuit Never had he beheld so much loveliness her spotless and transparent wings rivalled the snow in whiteness the easy graceful ness of her flight added to her beauty Our novice was quickly enamoured Her modesty teemed unconscious of the power of her charms and while she flew from flower to flower he imagined it was to avoid her followers in this how ever he was deceived these frequent rests were made but to lead them on nor did she fix till assured they were rear enough to discern the action A moss rose tree was her choice the colour of which contrasted with her oun exquisite white dazzled the be holders At length he descended but ventured not to approach the fair nearer than three branches distance His temerity was not checked though he had soon the satisfaction of seeing his companions dismissed with disdain Upon this he advanced and was received with complacency and invited to the same flower on vhich she sported Thus honoured thus distinguished he forgot all past perils nay he looked forward with a feeling of certainty to spending his life with the gentle partner of his love the rose tree their home But alas his vanity exceeded his know ledge of the world At the very moment when his glowing imagination was picturing such scenes of bliss a gaudy rival approached whose large and glaring yellow wings caught the keen eye of her ladyship A lew circuits round the bush completed the conquest his boidnc a increased and he alighted upon the very same stem to the great indig nation of our enraged hero who was preparing to repulse the intrusion when in the twinkling of an eye the fop and fair coquette took wing and fled together Surprise and mortifi cation prevented a pursuit on his part while he secretly avowed never more to attach himself to the white winged species Shame forbade his returning to the sunflower haunt where he naturally expected to encounter the banter of his late associates On quitting the scene of degradation he found him self directly opposite the house he had admired at a distance one of the rooms opened with glass doors on the lawn curiosity induced him to enter and well was he repaid for his trouble the highly finished furnitare large mirrors stands of flowers globes with gold fish c over whelmed him with their splendour nor was this all from the frame of a superb chimney glass he first be held his own personal charms and if before he possessed the vanity ascribed to his species trebly was it increased by the unexpected disco very again and again he expanded bis exquisite wings and flying from one end of the mirror to the other ceased not to admire the superior beauty with which Nature had distinguished him from the vulgar of his kind This frivolous employment was interrupted by the entrance of two boys and a girl who rushing suddenly Into the room seated themselves at a table over which was dispersed books maps and other symbols of instruction The dress and appearance of these children so different from those he had ever seen bespoke them of a higher rank in life and as external show was just then high in his estimation he could apprehend no danger from such pretty and well dressed individuals nor deemed it necessary to change his situation farther than by retiring to a basket of miniionctte that with other flowers decorated a green stand before the fireplace In a short time the youngest of the boys apparently six years of age crept softly from his seat and advancing towards the window closed it in a moment then clapping his hands in triumph exclaimed so so I have you at last Mr Butterfly 1 and with one sweep of his hand he secured the unsuspecting flutterer See Mary said he this is the very butterfly that gave us such a chase this morning No it is not j he continued opening his hand and viewing the nearly senseless insect extended in the palm of it no it is one a thousand times prettier look Arthur did you ever see any thing so beautiful Beautiful indeed replied Arthur but your rough usage has nearly stifled the poor Stifled returned he why you dont mean to say that a butterfly can feel pain like us I certainly do mean to say so Bob and I am not a little surprised to hear you make so foolish a remark Cruel as well as foolish I think observed their sister I know I should be very sorry to squeeze an harmless insect in that way for one must be silly indeed not to know that a little worm can feel pain as well as men and women Well then I did not know it said Robert so there is some excuse for my fault but pray Miss Wiseacre if you were so clever why did you join me today when I was trying to catch one Because sir I wished to give it my uncle Harvey to put in his pretty glass case not to hurt it I assure you sir Yet Mary interrupted Arthur the butterfly would have fared worse with you than with Bob for when my uncle had received it he would have killed it immediately Did you not observe when shewing us his collection the insects were all dead Yes certainly I did brother but then I thought he kept them all carefully and led them until they yew old and died After that you know there could be no cruelty in shutting them up in a box Feed them till they die repeated Arthur no no child that would never suit his purpose he kills them while their beauty is in its prime and before age or accident should lessen it How very very cruel returned Mary shuddering u I think I shall never again look at his glass case with pleasure During this conversation the nearly exhausted insect lay panting upon the table where Robert had dropped it when censured by his sister He evidently desired to retain it but Arthur combated his inclination and at length gently raising it by the wing carried it to the window and placed it on the frame near the ground The sun and air quickly restored animation and while the young scholars pursued their studies it once more took wing Flying leisurely down the slope its tickle nature was attracted by the scent and glowing tints of a rose whose spreading bush skirted the lawn Scarcely was the discovery made ere a gentleman approached arid taking a penknife from his pocket separated the identical flower from the parent stem Many roses yet adorned the bush but our epicure butterfly coveted that one Casting a longing eve towards the stolen treasure he suddenly deter mined to pursue the owner in the hope of snatching a taste of its sweets His ardour was a little checked on finding the gentleman enter the room he had just quitted and he hovered a few minutes near the window But his fears entirely vanished when perceiving the blushing flower deposited in a china jar with a variety of others equally beautiful Again he ventured into the apartments and flew boldly to the tempting spot He accomplished his wish in safety for the children were too busily occupied with their lessons to spare him a portion of their notice Had our butterfly possessed much intellect he had now ample opportunity for improvement Mary and her brothers were clever children and by perseverance and attention well repaid their father for his kindness in instructing them But idleness in butterflies is excusable and cannot injure the human species On the contrary in children it is a fault of the greatest magnitude leading to the most distressing consequences and a constant source of anxiety to those who have the misfortune to be connected with them Our rover though he did justice to the good conduct of the interesting trio felt no inclination to profit by their example and continued feasting until the children concluded their morning studies He heard the father praise their diligence and witnessed the blush of pleasure such praise created Pray papa asked Robert can you tell me why Charles Maynard who is not as old as my brother should know every thing as well as his master I did not understand he was so very clever returned the gentleman smiling k Clever papa why he gets through a dozen lessons in half an hour he has such a way of going from one thing to another without trouble and reads writes draws maps and translates French fables 3 whilst we should be studying our geography only That is doing a great deal Robert but learning little if he thus hurry over all he cannot pay proper attention to any and of course is little the wiser for being taught His studies are like the pursuits of a butterfly sipping at every flower with out deriving real benefit from one You speak lightly of butterflies papa yet bees do the very same and I have heard you praise their industry And deservedly so my dear the bee sips not from a love of change only nor does she cull the sweets for herself alone her employment is the source of advantage to others Arthur has lately been reading an interesting account of this industrious insect and can give you some useful information on the subject Yes do dear Arthur added Mary for I think their history quite a curiosity 5 Arthur readily assented and gave the following account of them It is generally understood that bees are subject to laws and government There is in every hive a certain bee of larger growth than the rest who is evidently considered the superior by the community Naturalists are of opinion hat this head or monarch is a female and mother of all the hive Those we call drones which are larger and of a darker colour than the common bee are males they number from four to five hundred in a hive It is said the queen has her apartment in the upper part of the hive She seldom appears in public but when been is attended by several large bees probably the drones who follow her with respect or form a circle round her fluttering their wings as if rejoiced by her presence She is their chief concern in cases of danger and if deprived of her by any mis fortune they neglect all business and either fly away at random or languish and die The hive is a busy and curious scene business is carried on with the greatest diligence and complete unanimity prevails throughout the whole community they sympathize when in danger and fight for each other with the utmost courage and resolution The interest of the one is that of the whole their store the produce of the industrious is alike shared by all When alone and distant from their companions they are patient of affront but when within reach of assistance will not be disturbed in their labours without resenting the insult Amfcl plenty they are frugal and abstemious anioni themselves strictly honest but apt to plunder their neighbours when opportunity offers This often produces wars and tumults betwixt one hive and another They never suffer any thing offensive to remain in the hive uniting all their strength to remove the disagreeable object With a prudence not inferior t3 human foresight they provide in sum mer for the necessities of winter They give no encouragement to idle ness but as Spring advances and the young bees are able to provide for themselves the old ones send out a colony or swarm of them to shift for themselves and find another habitation In building their combs they separate into four bands the first of which traverse the fields to collect materials for the structure which chiefly consists of the tine dust they gather from flowers and which mixed with a certain gluey substance is made into wax The second divi sion work upon these materials and form them into a rough sketch of the size and partitions of the cells which are built hexagonal with the nicest mathematical exactness I suppose observed Mary to her little brother you know that hexagonal signifies six sides Arthur continued The third band examine and adjust the angles remove the superfluous wax and in short complete the work The fourth class attend as labourers during the whole process and such is their diligence that the hive is fitted with combs in a fortnight Thus you see Robert bees are far more valuable than butterflies and well deserve praises their industry so generally creates I will take you some morn ing to see a glass hive which 1 am assured would much entertain you When Arthur had finished his little history of this industrious insect his brother returned him thanks observing he should never like butterflies so well as bees although they looked so much handsomer j u You are right my dear returned his father for there is no comparison in the worth of the two I trust also that you will imitate your new favorite in your endeavours to be useful and pursue your duties with the same activity At this moment Marys eye fixed on our now humble butterfly who in sensibly led to listen to the foregoing conversation felt truly abashed in learning the general opinion of his inutility and the superior qualities attached to the bee an insect he had ever held in contempt See papa said Mary there is one of the idlers you mention Yes Mary and a very handsome one of its kind but as he can only please the eye and we are not cruel enough to seek his life for the gratifi cation of looking at his fine colours sre care not how soon he goes he is welcome to our flowers but not our attention 1 Our hero certainly experienced no desire to remain where he was so lit tle valued he instantly spread his wings and again explored the garden Here every thing offered pleasure Lut offended by his late reception he deigned not to continue near his tra ducers but passing over the vall opposite to where he first entered found himself on the high road Vilri flowers alone presented themselves to his view but these were sufficient lie was not very hungry and his last excursion had lessened his love of variety he began to wish himself in the garden where he first drew breath and had he known the way would assuredly have sought his native jes samine Several children passed him on the road but no Phebe or Ned were of the number and he was now sufficiently acquainted with the dispositions of children not to feel tenacious of trusting himself within their reach If they cannot make any good use of me thought he I will not become the sport of their cruelty my vanity shall not mislead me this time This idea had scarcely subsided when as he was resting on the blossom of a hedge convolvulus he was suddenly seized by the rough lare hand of a countryman who had been for some time watching his serial move ments and exclaimed on catching his prize So so I have you at last mister fine wings my little ones will thank me for this I know The trembling prisoner heard him in dis may for he naturally guessed the parent who could take such a present to his child would think little of the manner in which it was treated Un pleasant was his situation but still more so the anticipation of future half stifled in the closed hand of the unfeeling ploughman he struggled in vain to get free every attempt but added to the rigour of his confinement until at length death in any other shape seemed preferable The loud buz of children announced their journeys end two girls and a boy ran to meet their father enquiring what he held so carefully concealed from them They were bid to guess and did so many times unsuccess fully The eldest girl however catch ing a glance of its wings vociferated the truth and received the trembling victim as a reward for her ingenuity Followed by the other two she return ed to the house and began rudely to examine its various beauties she was a selfish child and in her endeavours to keep all the sight to herself narrowly preserved its life as her impatient brother ran from side to side now and then snatching at the poor flutterer while Nelly as eagerly drew her hand away to prevent his seeing it The youngest child now craved her right to see the beautiful butterfly daddy brought home and oi being refused set up a violent scream which soon drew the attention of her mother whose pet she was and miss Nelly was obliged to display her pme to please the baby who not content with viewing would touch and play with it in a way so rough that more than once it was in danger of being demolished the boy took his share of tormenting and in order to teaze Nelly urged the little one to pull oft its wings This cruel deed had assuredly been performed had not the mother persuaded them it would be better to keep the pretty creature under a glass when they might look at it every da without the fear of its flying away Thii bright idea was readily embraced and the hero of our story once more escaped destruction We regret to say humanity had little share in the mothers decision her children were froward spoilt pots alive to their own gratification only and she who should have curbed their every wish of doing wrong was often obliged to submit to their sallies of passion for the sake of what she termed peace and quietness Un fortunate children thus fatally in dulged at the expense of future hap piness A broken wineglass was placed over the object of dispute who scarcely enjoyed the unexpected reprieve while the cross petulant countenances of his young persecutors assailed him in every direction as he glanced at them from his transparent prison With the power of torment ing ceased their curiosity and al though they were delighted to quarrel with one another as to the right of pulling their prisoner to pieces they cared little to look at the same thing over and over again without touch ing it At this critical juncture puss caught a mouse in the barn at news of which one and all ran to the scene of action leaving our butterfly at leisure to reflect on the horrors of his situation All past perils appeared trifling when compared to the present in the school of the good dame he had found more than one protector in the beautiful parlour at the cottage he had experienced much humanity little Roberts rough usage had not proceeded from want of feeling and severely did he censure himself for suffering disappointed vanity to lead him from safety and plenty Happily for the bee sighed he her beauty does not attract the fickle notice of child hood her sting is a sufficient punishment for the bold trespasser upon her freedom her labours are attended with liule danger and are usually crowned with success my toils are the sport of fancy and cruelty and should I escape the ever threatening evils tend to no real good in the end would I were a bee an ant or any insect worth preserving Thus meditated our hero in distress the lesson but too well applies to many of our own species who depending upon outward attraction never take into consideration the uselessness of beauty until convinced by the neglect of the wise and good that personal charms alone can never gain esteem or respect Gladly would the hum bled beauty in question have exchanged forms with the heavy droning beetle or insignificant moth for whose flimsy wings he would readily have bartered Jiis own shining spotted ones A shout from the children created new terror and quickly a huge black cat rushed into the room pursued by them all eager to possess the dead mouse he squeezed between his jars He ran from corner to corner assailed with balls sticks and whatever came in the way of his pursuers till with a sudden spring he leaped upon the table where our butterfly was placed and darting out of the window over set the wineglass and freed his companion in distress The mischief was quickly descried by Nelly who shriek ing out Oh my butterfly my butterfly mounted the table to prevent its flight but notwithstanding her activity the object of it was yet more nimble and vaulting over her out stretched hands passed the casement again to breathe the air of freedom On the thatched roof he took rest too far removed from danger to dread pursuit and listened with allowable pleasure to the bewailings of his late unfeeling mistress who traversed the garden round and round in search of her captive threatening the cat with her utmost vengeance for letting it loose Puss had fled as high as one pair of stairs into a large walnut tree regardless of Nellys commands to come down and be beaten and while she enjoyed her meal but increased the rage of the little tyrant Her brother now appeared with a hat full of stones with which he proposed pelt ing the cat until they forced her from her new abode Nelly pleased with the proposal joined in the cruel attempt but soon had reason to re pent her malice for John selecting a large flinty stone threw it with all his force it struck one of the lower branches and fell with violence on his sisters head The blow was in deed severe but the action merited the punishment and as the poor butterfly viewed her bleeding and led into the house he experienced but trifling pity for her and still less for her brother who received from his father a complete thrashing for the mischief he had caused It may be supposed the present scene possessed no attraction to induce the persecuted insect to remain in its vicinity on the contrary every object excited terror and weak as he felt after so much ill treatment he exerted himself to the utmost to fly from all he had so lately witnessed His progress was slow but every movement of his wings gave him new strength and the hateful habitation was soon out of sight After various determinations as to the road he should take he suddenly lighted on some green paling en closing a small but neatly arranged garden The appearance of the place promising but upon inspection the produce was rather useful than luxurious All was quiet however and a meal unmolested he now considered a treat a sweet pea was his choice but not his alone for at the moment he fixed on its blushing blossoms a huge bee came humming round the spot and shortly took up her quarters on the very same stem The high character he had so recently heard of her added to her formidable sting made him feel rather shy of her acquaintance and he quickly retreated to a neighbouring carnation at the same time watching the progress of the intruders pur suits A feeling strongly resembling envy pervaded his breast as he reflected on the utility of her employment and he sincerely regretted that equal power was not given to his species A cucumber glass at this moment raised his drooping pride by reflecting his handsome form but his vanity was certainly not so keen as in the morning and after a short inspection of his beauty he sought other objects A house nearly concealed by lofty trees next drew his attention and although it was far from his intention to enter the duelling of man he was led towards it by the soothing voice of childhood tones so mild that he could not believe danger existed within sound of it In a bedroom whose half closed shutters admitted a partial light he discovered the fair speaker an interesting little girl who leaning over the pillow of a sick brother endeavoured to amuse and console him her kindness seemed to rouse the young invalid who repeatedly though in a languid voice declared his Susan was the best nurse in the world I am glad you think so my dear Charles said Susan because it is my wish to please you and I well re member how good you were to me when I had the measles 5 Here Susan kissed his pale cheek and dropped the tear of recollection Charles too seemed affected and returned her caresses with equal warmth Will you read tome Susan asked he Willingly my dear brother but first let me give you the medicine Jane left in my care Charles shook his head in disapprobation and confessed he did not like taking physic Nor da I returned Susan but however disagreeable it may be I think pain is a great deal worse and when we know a little Or this bad tasting stuff will cure us it would surety be folly to sutler illness rather than take what is necessary to prevent it Charles was silent and his kind nurse arose to prepare the dreaded dose When she approached the bedside with the glass of medicine in her hand he shrank back Susan looked disappointed What shall I say to mamma when she returns she supposes I am filling her place and tending you as she would do if at home I never saw you refuse physic when she offered it and I hoped you loved me too well to do so when I became your nurse but perhaps I do not understand how to make you happy or give you what is proper as 1 flattered myself I did Tell me dear Charles what I have done that does not please you Oh you never do wrong Susan it is not with you I am displeased only as I said before I cannot bear to take physic Then you will not take it bro ther shall I do so in your stead Charles smiled Why you dont want it you are very well you know and I dare say it would do you more harm than good Perhaps so but no matter you will not get well and may wish me to be ill to keep you company No that I am sure I do not returned he I would sooner be ill a hundred times than your head should ache once so come mistress nurse bring your nasty physic and let me swallow it quietly Susan was not long in performing this part of her duty and although Charles still asserted it was very dis agreeable stuff he emptied the glass in a minute His thoughtful nurse had a lump of sugar at hand and soon made him smilingly confess the task he had performed was trifling compared to anticipation Susan now settled his pillow and smoothed the bedclothes to his satis faction and then going to a book shelf selected a volume such as she guessed would please him and seating herself by the bedside commenced the following story THE PATCHED COAT It was Sunday the bells of the village church rang their usual peal for morning Prayer Young and old heard the summons and dressed in their neatest array hastened to join in thanksgiving and supplication The appearance of the villagers was more than commonly striking for the day was Easter Sunday and the youthful inhabitants generally put on some new garb on this day The industrious parent often sacrificed self comfort to procure an article of dress for their offspring It was not a desire for finery but a proper regard to decency respect and gratitude for the blessing this day had procured One family had ever been remark able for the neatness of their clothing and until this year considered an example to the rest of the village not only in outward appearance but for general good conduct But alas adversity had changed their prospects and their dress likewise The father an industrious farmer by a series of misfortunes had been obliged to quit his farm and submit to the daily fatigues of a labourer His wife equally deserving and once the active partner of his exertions lost her life in attending two children in a dangerous fever from which they recovered though she fell a sacrifice One short year deprived him of these comforts and reduced him from comparative affluence to poverty but he was a good and religious man bore his sorrows with fortitude and en deavoured to make his children do Yhe same His greatest trouble arose from the infirmity of a little girl about eight years of are born deaf and dumb her affliction endeared her to the whole family and her gentle disposition well repaid their care but her favourite brother two years older than herself was her principal companion and helpmate Joe possessed one of the best hearts in the world his disposition was cheerful and conciliating the use of pleasure to others and never so happy as when so employed His sister Fanny was his idol he was ever inventing something to amuse her taking her pleasant walks or culling the best flowers nuts or ripest blackberries for his pet His exertions were always crowned with success for Fanny was pleased with all be did and the time he spent at school seemed the most irksome of her life while his presence instantly created the smile to delight and she Mould throw her arms round his neck and weep with joy on his return Poor Joes coat was not so lasting as his spirits and good temper his sister Martha had mended it over and over again and at length in defiance of her own wish and Joes entreaties for the contrary had been obliged to patch it with another colour I dont see people wear blue coats with brown patches said Joe examining his sisters workmanship Nor I brother but any colour is better than a hole I am sure you would not like to go in rags 1 No certainly replied he but tomorrow is Easter Sunday and every one will have a new coat while I wear an old one of different co lours True Joe but then everybody is not so poor as we in better days we did not need such contrivances when father had the power he always gave his children the best he was able to earn his misfortunes are not of his own seeking and while we see him wear an old jacket like his pre sent one I think the least we can do is to be content with our own Oh I know father cant help it said Joe and I would not say a word to vex him for twenty shillings but 1 do wish Martha that my codi had lasted whole until after tomorrow Martha smilingly added Ay and until this time next year for all our sakes Joe smiled too owned it was silly to mind a patched coat and went whistling away to pick cowslips for little Fanny I think said Joe on Easter Sun day that I will go to church by the roadway the distance is much the same Not much difference I believe answered his father but methinks boy the fields would be more pleasant and beside you would join many of your companions by going the latter way I dont much care for company today J observed Joe looking at the brown patch on his elbow Why not today my dear re turned his father noticing his sons glance I dont see why that patch should lower you in the eyes of your playfellows they all know I gave you a better when I had the power go boy go to church the old way the fields will look just as green as ever and be assured your prayers will be acceptable in an old coat as well as a new one I never knew dress make the heart better or mend the temper so the conscience be whole no matter how many holes in the garb Poor Joe felt ashamed not of his coat but of himself he tried to speak his feelings but tears prevented him kissing his father hastily he snatched up the Prayerbook ran through the garden and was over the first stile in five minutes How do you do Joe exclaimed two boys in a breath are you not going to church and this Easter Sun day Yes to be sure I am answered he a little confused His young companions exchanged looks and immediately fixed their eyes on the brown patch What do you think of my coat asked the elder one and my hat and waistcoat added the younger They are very good very pretty replied Joe Dont you wish you had such enquired the last speaker No yes answered he be cause then father would be better in the world than he is now otherwise I dont care much for new coats Then you are not ashamed of that patch on your elbow Ashamed why should I be ashamed It is no crime to wear an old coat as father says new clothes neither make us better nor wiser 1 But you look so shabby Joe I am sure I should blush to go to church in such a coat as that I dare say every one will stare at you you will be the only boy who has not new clothes I cannot help that replied Joe 1 hope I shall not be the greatest dunce or the worst tempered 7 No fear of that cried a good natured rosy girl tapping him upon the shoulder what makes you look so serious Joe It is enough to make him look serious said James Evans the eldest boy here he is going to church on Easter Sunday in that old patched coat and we and everybody else have nice new ones 1 Well and will your nice new coat ojjve you nice new vuvs of saying your lessons tomorrow Joe need not mind his brown patch while he can read better than all the boys in the village I would sooner wear his old coat today than your crying faces tomorrow when you go to school as you always do without learning three words of your task James muttered something about being as clever as Joe and that Han nah had no business with his lessons but perceiving the arch girl was half inclined to laugh at him and well knowing how much Joe was his superior in learning he slunk behind with his brother and left his companions to proceed alone Joe felt relieved by their absence and although grateful for Hannahs interference could not help watching to discover if she noticed the brown patch Hannah however was a riri uf too much discernment to vue people for their dress and as she was well acquainted with Joes good qualities never thought of the colour of his coat At the church door they parted Joe took his usual seat near the clerks desk and notwithstanding he saw many eyes fixed upon his brown patch that should have been directed to their books he never blushed bat once and that was when a gentleman in the best pew looked earnestly at him and appeared to examine him from head to foot He does not know any harm of me thought Joe and he again turned to his Prayer book forgetting every thing but the place he was in and for what purpose he came there When the service concluded Joe was surrounded by his young acquaintances who while they asked trifling question or made some frivolous observations evinced by their eyes that his coat alone was the object of their attention His glow ing cheek betrayed him not quite at ease but his fathers words still dwelled upon his memory and he determined to conquer the silly pride he felt arising At this moment the gentleman who had before noticed him and who was Lord of the Manor approached with the parson of the parish The little groupe gave way each making a bow or curtsy all eager to catch the eye of the squire who graciously nodded to them but pointing to Joe enquired who the little boy in the patched coat belonged to Poor Joe once more looked at the brown patch nor was he the only one who did so He is the son of Farmer Hastings replied the parson one of the best children in the village and well worthy so good a father Farmer Hastings repeated the gentleman I remember him well but I fear from the appearance of his son times are not so well with him as heretofore The rector assented to this and as they walked through the church yard gave a slight detail of the honest farmers misfortunes Joe heard enough to make him proud of his father and regardless of his patched coat On reaching the turnstile Joe was about to proceed his usual way when Mr Martin the rector called him back and presented him by name to the Squire My good little fellow said the latter 1 have taken a great liking to patched coat of yours which I am told is worn by an excellent boy you however may little fellow I tare taken a to that patched coat of yours I am told is an excellent joy not be so partial to it so take this he added putting a banknote in his hand and let me see you next Sun day in a new one but retaining your present good character Hardly could Joe believe his senses as he viewed his newlygotten trea sure His thanks were warm but brief for every moment seemed an hour until he had imparted his good fortune to those he so dearly loved In vain James Evans and many others shouted after him to learn what the gentleman had given smiles and nods were his only answers Swift as the wind he crossed the fields and reached home just as Martha was taking the pudding out of the pot Just in time my boy said his father here is your favourite pud ding all smoking and ready for you u O I cant eat pu tiding or anything else just now returned Joe panting see father see Martha and all of ye see what the squire has just given me because my coat was patched with brown Joe then related particulars clear as his agitated spirits would allow produced his One Pound Note and kissing Martha declared he liked her mended coats better than new ones The farmer smiling congratulated him on his good luck and observed that a fair name was better than fine clothes as the event of the morning had proved Joe could eat little dinner for talk ing of the squire and his new coat until perceiving his father unusually thoughtful he forgot all his fine projects and enquired with real anxiety what he was thinking about I will tell you my dear replied he during the time you were at church neighbour Simms called to tell me that a great doctor was come to Ludlow famous for curing the deaf and dumb now I have more than once been told that our sweet Fanny might be cured if I had proper ad vice Well father interrupted Joe and you will now surely oh what luck that would be It would Joe be the greatest happiness of my life but then Ludlow is thirty six miles off and the ex pence of such a journey is more than 1 am worth in the world Joes color rose to crimson joy sparkled in his blue eye he clasped his hands in ecstasv Oh father my money my banknote would per haps Yes child that is what I am thinking of but then Joe the new coat for next Sunday and that old one with the ugly brown patch my boy But exclaimed Joe in tearful rapture my own Fanny to hear and speak to call me her dear brother to hear me tell her how much 1 love her understand all I could say to her ah father it would be too much Here overcome by his feelings Joe hid his face on his fathers shoulder and wept aloud The good farmer while he pressed him to his heart gave loose to similar feelings and poor Fanny the unconscious cause of them ran to share the grief she witnessed without knowing why Joe raised his head looked in her intelligent face and almost fancied her cure already began In the most affectionate manner she took his hand and in a kind of mournful tone en deavoured to console him Joe put his arms round her neck kissed her again and again uttering a thousand expressions of pleasure she smiled to observe though she understood him not When will you set off father enquired Joe Tomorrow morning by the heavy coach if the passengers be not too many it will pass here about five oclock and I doubt not we shall all be up early enough to secure a seat on the top for my poor girl and myself I dont think I shall so to bed to night said Joe for perhaps we might oversleep ourselves and really I feel too happy to sleep much nov but I might set heavy towards morning Never fear returned his father we shall all be up in time and I advise you to go to bed earlier than usual instead of sitting up all night for you will have more to do tomorrow on account of my absence Joe readily agreed to change his plan and retired soon after sunset happy as virtue and innocence could make him My readers will not be surprised to learn he was the first stirring in the cottage on the morrow helped Martha to prepare breakfast cleaned Fannys Sunday shoes and without being told ran half a mile to borrow dame Hudsons big shawl to wrap round his darling lest the dew should give her cold for it was early in April The farmer witnessed these affectionate attentions with a pleasure none but parents can feel and as he placed the banknote in an old leather purse prayed Heaven to bless his generous and dutiful boy Martha her two youngest brothers nd Joe walked to the end of the lane to see the travellers depart Joe continued kissing his hand while the coach was in sight his heart beat strong with hope though Martha more than once suggested the probability of their being disappointed Joe had double work to do on this day vet notwithstanding his constant occupation the time hung heavy and he longed for night to forget in sleep the doubts and fears to which suspence had given birth He had at first imagined that a single day would perfect Fannys cure and when un deceived by Martha experienced sad mortification he learnt with dismay that should the doctor even prove successful weeks months nay years might elapse ere their wishes were realized It is a very long while to wait for such happiness said he but come when it may it will be the joy of my life On the following day at noon the good man returned with his charge Joe was hard at work when he heard the distant sound of coach wheels throwing down the spade with which he had been digging the field he hastened up the lane shouting to Martha all the way The moment he discovered the dear objects of his search he stopped and fixed his eves on the countenance of his father the expression of which could not be mistaken all is right thought Joe while his heart palpitated as if it would burst through his breast Fanny looked pale from fatigue but her cheeks reddened with delight when she perceived who came to meet her His clamorous joy had brought the rest of tiic family to the garden and pushed forward to hear the first news but Joe suggested their assembling round the dinner table before his father began the interesting detail for Fanny had already warned him of her hunger The meal was speedily concluded and their delighted parent then in formed them that the doctor was of opinion she would recover both her hearing and speech but time only could evince the wished for success and the distance from Ludlow was too oreat to allow of so constant an attendance as was necessary I have no more pound notes I sighed Joe I wish the Squire had given two instead of one u Then you would have had a new coat into the bargain observed Martha looking significantly A new coat answered Joe somewhat indismantlv No l am not so selfish as to wish for more money oa that account I meant it would have paid fathers journey another time and two trials must be better than one Martha taking him affectionately by the hand owned her belief of his good intentions and told him if he would assist her in spinning during the next week she doubted not earn ing sufficient for a second journey Three weeks passed away in anxious expectation Farmer Hastings had been several times to Ludlow little Fanny underwent an operation which produced a slight sense of hearing and the joy of the whole family was sincere as ardent On the fourth Sunday Joe went to church in his old jacket a second patch was no improvement to its appearance but he saw not its defects he only remembered it had been the means of sending Fanny to Ludlow and moreover she had given proofs of hearing the church bells that morn ing their sound now seemed the sweetest music to his ears his spi rits became elated as he listened to them lie was stripping a bunch of May from the hedge to place in his breast when he heard his name pronounced in a tone of surprise he raised his head and beheld the squire his eyes steadily fixed on his party coloured jacket Joe instantly understood his thoughts but had not the immediate power of speaking his eye fell on the same object and glanced from the patch to the squire alternately His confused manner and blushing cheeks gave the squire an idea that all was not right and he rather abruptly enquired why he again saw him in his old coat Because sir because I thought it best kindest to spend your money an something else that 1 could not help wanting much more than a nev coat I think you could not want any thing so necessary returned the squire you have a good father who feeds and maintains you and I hope you are too good a boy to throw away such a sum on trifles or in purchasing anything without your fathers know ledge O no indeed sir that would be very wicked I have certainly spent the note you were so kind as to give me but I am sure that is I think you would not say I had done wrong if you knew all Well then tell me all I am in clined to think well of you from your seeming good conduct and the good character parson Martin gives but I do not like concealment if the money has been disposed of properly you need not be ashamed to own the manner of laying it out So Joe thought but his natural modesty made him averse to disclosing an action in which he was the prin cipal person concerned and in pro portion as the squire pressed for an explanation his reluctance increased at length he stammered out the truth attributing the whole to his fathers suggestion but his gratified auditor readily understood the merit of the action was entirely his own and be stowed the warmest commendations on his dutiful conduct he added I shall call on your father this even ing and talk to him on the subject The naturally sanguine disposition of our rustic hero attached much good fortune to this promised visit and he hastened to impart his hopes to his parent and sister Joe thought evening would never arrive it did however and with it came the squire and his lady The neatness so evident in the farmers cottage and family made a most favourable impression upon his guests who condescendingly noticed all they saw and enquired minutely into their tenants affairs The squire heard with real pleasure a confirmation of Joes good qualities and at the con clusion of the fathers recital of his generous offer of the banknote took him by the hand and promised to be friend him through life Then perhaps exclaimed Joe joyfully I shall be able to earn enough to get dear Fanny quite cured 51 t We shall not wait your future exertions my worthy boy answered the squire Fanny has found a more able though not a better friend in this lady who has come here purposely to offer her services on her account solelv Yes said the lady smiling and drawing the interesting little girl to wards her I mean to take your favourite under my particular care I shall send her to Ludlow at my own expense to reside with Doctor Alason who has several other unfortunate children under his care and 1 doubt not from your fathers favourable re port she will return as well as we could hope her to be Poor Joe could only turn up his hands and eyes in wonder at such goodness while his father and Martha returned more audible thanks A small but compact farm was of fered tdiMicr Hastings at a rent not exceeding his present humble one and the squires lady assured Martha she would furnish her with many com forts and necessaries for housekeep ing such as they had been deprived of from change of fortune They at length quitted the cottage overwhelmed with the gratitude of its worthy inhabitants whose coming prosperity soon spread through the village to the mutual pleasure of all for farmer Hastings w as universally respected and beloved In the course of the following week little Fanny was completely equipped for her new residence The parting between her and Joe was truly affect ing though the latter convinced of its necessity endeavoured to suppress his feelings and to make her comprehend it was for the best Never had Joe shed so many tears as on the morning of her departure it seemed he lost halt himself in losing his dar ling and the poor little girl suffered still more from her ignorance of all which occasioned the separation As the summer advanced happiness once more beamed upon this worthy family They had removed to the new farm the bountiful hand of their landlord rendered every thing complete Marthas dairy and Joes garden were the admiration of the village every Saturday Joe was al lowed to accompany the squires housekeeper in a chaise cart to Ludlow and had the inexpressible pleasure of seeing his sister who rapidly recovered under the skilful management of Doctor Mason This weekly holiday was procured by extra labour on other days but the toil was a pleasure to our tenderhearted Joe As he had been the chief object of her love in the days of affliction he became the dearest one as she gained sense and power of expressing the same Every month he had some instance to relate of her improvement in speech and when she first addressed him though imperfectly as dear Joe his heart seemed too full of delight to be borne and he threw himself on her bosom in an agony of joy As he reached the farm on this memorable evening he exclaimed Oh my dear father oh Martha she said would you believe it she said Here his throat swelled and he could say no more Who do you mean my child M asked his father noticing his agitation with anxiety Mean why I mean Fanny our Fanny my own Fanny yes dear father she spoke to me called me dear Joe such sweet words I never heard in my life they have sounded in my ears all the way home every tree every bush seemed to repeat dear Joe I shall never think of any other words as long as I live es my dear boy you must think of and repeat other words words of grateful praise to the Merciful Power who has restored our dear Fanny and loaded us with benefits nor let us forget his agents in the good work whose charity guided by His AilPowerful Hand has brought things to this happy conclusion O I shall never forget them or their goodness returned the tearful boy and as to thanking God for all he has done for us I think it would be almost impossible for he sends new happiness every day but indeed I do think of him and say my prayers with all rny heart because i always fancy he is listening to me and it makes my heart feel light especially when I have been to see clear Fanny and find her better for I am sure it must be His Power that makes her so I believe you my child said far mer Hastings and may His Good ness ever inspire you with the same confidence 1 Autumn passed laboriously but happily every thing prospered all their efforts succeeded but Winter was destined to complete their felicity little Fanny came to spend a fortnight at the farm remembered each individual and the scene of her early ha bits called her brothers and sister by name heard most of what was said to her and listened with rapture to Joes attempt to entertain her with his fife which the squires butler had given him Joe was half wild with pleasure he escorted her throughout the lae busied himself in forming new plans of amusement and read him self hoarse to divert her with Little Red RidingHood MotherGoose and every book he possessed or could borrow from his young companions Joe had long since owned a new coat likewise a jacket for days of labour but he yet retained the patched one which he esteemed a relic and termed it the lucky jae ket On the day of Fannys return the jubilee of his life he appeared in the patched garb at dinner On Marthas joking him he observed No matter I would not affront my brown patch by letting it lie un noticed in the old chest on such a day as this when I remember that all our good fortune comes from its colour Ah Martha I dont forgot old friends and although 1 certainly like to wear my new coat best and go to church like other boys of the village yet I have a great respect for this workmanship of yours Blue jackets and brown patches for ever blue jackets and brown patches for ever repeated the laughing Fanny not quite perfect indeed but intelligibly enough to be understood by all I will wear this dear patch all the rest of my life sobbed Joe as he kissed her round blushing cheek Wear the same heart my noble boy said his father and you must be happy Thus ends my story said Susan closing the book and I hope it has entertained you very much indeed returned Charles 1 am quite delighted with Joe and as to poor little Fanny do you know I could not help crying when you described her misfortunes My eyes dont feel quite right observed Susan but I believe you are as much the cause as poor Fanny for while I read of Joes affectionate conduct towards her I could not but fancy that you would just behave as kind to me had I been as unfortunate as the poor little girl Charles felt she did him but justice and squeezed her hand grate fully as she patted his pale cheek In a few minutes subsequent Su sans patient was slumbering and our butterfly concluding the careful nurse would remain too quiet to afford him further entertainment set off in quest of new adventures In making a sudden turn to the left he found himself in a much busier scene than any he had hitherto witnessed it was a country town and the bustle of business and clamour of tongues overwhelmed him with surprise and confusion The shops were gay and every countenance looked cheerful yet however amusing the novel spectacle to our winged traveller he beheld no promise of sustenance but one source met his view and that was a honey suckle creeping round the doorframe of a dirty shop and so discoloured by dust that he felt his appetite must be keen indeed ere he could venture on such food The glowing colours of some ribbons in a haberdashers window 7 attracted him but alas they were articles only pleasing to the eye The next shop was a pastry cooks and decorated in a most tempting style few juvenile observers could have viewed it without a wish for some of its contents but children and butterflies differ in point of taste custards jellies and cakes had no charms for our butterfly who flew from house to house street to street in search of the beauties of nature A row of small houses with flower gardens in front presented a more pleasing prospect and he determined to avail himself of the opportunity There was no great variety but rose trees were not wanting and he quickly selected the most blooming At the moment of his choice a mischievous boy who was passing through the garden with a basket containing eggs and butter perceived his manoeuvre and threw his hat with so good an aim that the rose taster fell direct to the earth and was taken prisoner without a struggle Held by the wing he was carried to a shop in the town where the urchin placed him on the counter and began to amuse himself by roughly checking his progress whenever renovated strength permitted him to crawl He continued this employment in spite of his masters repeated orders to go on a second errand and at length roused his employer to give him a smart rap on the head Insensible as he was to the sufferings of the poor insect in his power he was perfectly alive to his own and quickly retreated from a second blow leaving his victim at liberty but half dead from fright and illusage The shopkeeper discovering the cause of the boys negligence brush ed it hastily from the counter and with a force that sent it into the street This new shock had nearly proved our persecuted heros last he just retained strength enough to creep to the wall where sheltered from the foot of the passing passenger he slowly recovered in a decree but his wing had received too much injury for present flight and he felt all the horrors of approaching annihilation but fate had other evils in store and shortly after he was raised gently by a soft careful hand while a still softer voice uttered exclamations of real feeling for his unfortunate situation The fair speaker was one of a large party forming a young ladies 1 school and with a companion being the last of the train had leisure to rescue the poor butterfly exposed to the danger of being crushed by some heedless footstep After a short walk they stopped at a large house at the extremity of the town and our butterfly was taken into the schoolroom and exhibited to the youthful circle by his new mistress who suffered not a finger to touch her prize whose weakness she observed but too plainly shewed how harshly he had been used e What will you do with it asked one Set it at liberty when it is strong enough to fly returned she 1 am sorry evening is so fast advancing had it been earlier I would have at tempted to copy its pretty form and bright colors ibr I never remember to have seen so beautiful a butterfly Well cannot you put it in a box until tomorrow morning saki Harriet Jones no harm could hap pen to it there and I really think it would make a pretty drawing and you are so clever at mixing your colors and laying them on smoothly I am sure you would succeed in this But how cruel it would be Harriet to confine the poor thing in L close box a whole night for the chaiKJ or copying it tomorrow and I ai sure a very poor chance it would he for I doubt if it will survive hours if any thing can save it air and freedom will and I should be sorry to deprive it of the only re medy What a fuss about a butterfly cried a new voice Jones is right I would put it into a box if it is past recovery there can be no cruelty in confining it The butterfly owner turned with quickness to the last speaker and addressing her in a tone of feeling said When your father was so se verely wounded in battle think what would have been his fate had those around him shut him up in a close room without the benefit of air or necessary assistance he must in that case have died I have heard him tell papa how the freshness of the breeze and warmth of the sun contributed to his recovery and yet you knowing this would unthinkingly deprive a living creature of both be cause it cannot tell you how necessary they are to its existence Miss Simpson blushed and looked a little angry for she valued Lucys good opinion and felt that there was truth in what she said But there was a great difference she observed in killing a soldier and a butterfly 5 Certainly replied Lucy and I would rather a thousand of the handsomest were destroyed than a single human being but I dont see why we should shorten the life of any thing God has created nor would you I am assured give pain to a living creature if you took time to reflect Miss Simpson stammered out a kind of apology for what she had said but it was evident she was more mortified by her friends rebuke than sorry for her own want of humanity Not so the rest of her companions who were unanimous in advising Lucy to give the butterfly its liberty add ing she always acted for the best To the best of my weak judgment you mean returned the blush ing girl What are you saying to Miss Saville that occasions her to blush so much enquired the governess advancing to the gathering circle Only giving her due praise ma dam answered one and of course speaking the truth That is a handsome compliment my dear returned the smiling preceptress and must be as grateful to my young friend as it is honorable in you to acknowledge her merits but may 1 ask what was the circumstance which gave rise to your eulogium Here Lucy stepped forward with her butterfly fearful lest her partial fiierods should mention Miss Simpson in an unfavorable manner and sim ply related the cause of her school fellows approbation It was but a simple act of humanity madam and I really do not feel deserving the praise bestowed You could not do other than what you have done replied her go verness and with you I think it is not an extraordinary act of humanity but my love it is the remembrance of your usual good conduct which this circumstance brought to recollection that excited the commendation of your friend Martha and you now feel the pleasing consequences of being uni formly kind and humane Lucy blushed and was silent her companions thought they never saw her look so pretty for she possessed little of personal beauty Mrs Bedford seated herself and the delighted girls gathered round her Humanity she continued is so natural a feeling and so constantly brings its own reward it seems strange that an v human being should resist its call Few I believe are entirely void of it but we often confine our sympathy to the sufferings of the human species alone this is certainly selfish for while we sympathize with our fellow creatures we in a great measure lament the psin we are liable to experience ourselves The brute creation are entitled to our pity and forbearance in a particular degree for they want intellect to discern danger and are even in our power and consequently at our mercy I never knew a cruel child make an amiable man or woman To hurt a dumb animal or crush an inoffensive insect betrays cowardice as well as cruelty because the perpetrator knows the victim cannot contend with the ingenuity of man You may remember my dear Miss Simp son the postboy who beat his horses so severely the day you returned to school I then felt assured inhuma nity was not his only failing and have since learned that from his repeated illusage of his masters horses he was discharged want of character prevented his entering a new service idleness led him into bad society and he is now in the county gaol for rob bing a shop in this town His friends are to be pitied for they are honest and laborious people but you or I can feel little pity ior him when we recollect his savage treatment of the poor fatigued animal who had travelled so far for his and your convenience Miss Simpson readily assented to tliis though she cast her eyes fearfully around to observe if her companions were making comparisons several eyes were turned towards her but quickly withdrawn when they noticed her confusion Mrs Bedford went on You must all notice the particular confidence I repose in Hannah the servant who attends YOU while at meals and when sick I do not however believe that the v hole of my young friends are acquainted with the circumstances which first gave me a knowledge of her She is the daughter of a poor but worthy cottager in the neighbouring village and from infancy inclined to habits of industry and docility That her heart is tender and affectionate 1 imagine I need not add for many present have experienced her kind attentions in sick ness Yes Yes exclaimed several voices together she is indeed a tenderhearted nurse as we can prove Well my dears this kindness of nature extended to every thing living that was not hurtful to mankind and few little girls treated dumb animals better than Hannah Bennett She was nearly eleven years old when coming into the town one morning to dispose of her mothers knitting she saw some boys engaged in earnest conversation near a pond they appeared to be examining something and curiosity led her to cross the road to discover the object of their attention Her feeling heart recoiled on perceiving it was a poor frog whose death they were planning with every species of cruelty she pleaded strongly for its release but they laughed at her humanity for a frog and desired more she quitted the admiring circle and with more philosophy than might be expected from so youthful a heroine set forward on her journey She stopped but once more and that was to spend the shopkeepers halfpenny in liquorice for her grand mothers cough In passing the church she noticed with pleasure that only half an hour had elapsed since she quitted the boys and she Mattered herself it could not be too late Her hopes somewhat diminished as she drew near the pond and saw no one in sight it might be however they were in the adjoining field and she hastened to where there was a gap in the hedge to ascertain if it were so but alas no boys were there She approached the pond and with horror discovered the man led remains of a frog which she felt convinced was the poor victim she had wished to pre serve Indignation pity and self reproach combined to overwhelm her with regret and she burst into a violent flood of tears The remainder of her journey was slowly performed she accused herself of inhumanity and sincerely regretted she had been tempted to stop for the foolish grotto Within a few yards of home she overtook one of the hardhearted party and reproached him for his conduct I cant help it replied he I wanted them to wait for your penny but they all agreed you were only joking and would not be so foolish as to give a penny for the sake of an ugly frog Why you were not out of sight when they killed it Hannah turned from him in dis gust but felt relieved in learning her dilatoriness had not accelerated the cruel deed She was now a penny the richer but her wealth gave her no pleasure and although the showman passed through the village on the succeeding clay she experienced not the slightest inclination to peep at the grotto on the contrary it only awakened fresh regret Her luckless penny was be stowed upon a poor blind man and her heart felt lighter when it was gone Hannahs grandfather who occasionally worked in my garden told the story to one of the servants and in course of time it reached my ears I was pleased with the childs character and requested to see her Still more was I won by her modest recital and ingenuous condemnation of her self I immediately took her into the house had her instructed in useful knowledge for her situation in life and she has ever since remained with me and is at this time a pattern of domestic fidelity and a treasure to my establishment I was convinced a heart so good might be trained to the best principles and the trial has more than fulfilled my hope This morning she informed me of a circumstance that shocked though it did not surprise me one of the frog tormentors was no other than the unfeeling postboy we were speaking of just now Her youthful auditors listened with the greatest interest and attention and while they did justice to the me rits of Hannah Bennett expressed their abhorrence of the post boys character But where is vour beautiful but terfly Miss Saville exclaimed a little girl perceiving it was no longer on the table Gone I protest answered Lucy looking round the room no matter it must have recovered its strength wonderfully to have flown away I rejoice the poor thing re vived it was not my intention to keep it a moment longer than its weakness required He was too proud to be nursed by me and all mv good intentions are now vain Our butterfly however was not so far oft as Lucy imagined he had certainly regained his strength in a greater degree than might be expected but was yet too weak to fly and had only crawled to one of the windows on whose sill he rested while Mrs Bedford related Hannah Bennetts history In a few r minutes subsequent the good lady bade her pupils adieu for the night their respectful affection towards her bespoke how much she was beloved and our flighty traveller was half inclined to tarry a little longer with this amiable family but it is the nature of butterflies to rove and the ensuing breeze helped to expand his wings he made an effort and reached a bed of mignionette growing beneath the window here he was joined by a grave looking brown and yellow insect whose external appearance was not particularly striking but there was much courtesy in his manner and the two strangers quickly entered into conversation My friend said the yellow butterfly you appear to be in a weak state is it from natural infirmity or from recent misfortune Alas returned our hero my weakness arises from the cruelty of Ill the human race and not from any affliction of nature I have but just escaped the most barbarous treatment and it is only by the most un expected kindness of a young lady that I am so far recovered as you see me Well replied the other you see the wisdom and kindness of Providence who sent you a benefactor in one of the same species as your persecutor I should imagine he continued that your adventures have not been of a common description butterflies of your colour and form are highly estimated your beauty must have attracted mankind very often and this sort of admiration must have led you into danger and circumstances highly interesting true you are young but I doubt not have witnessed more of the world than many double your age Why to speak the truth answered the flattered beau I have seen a little of life but my knowledge is rather confined for I have moved in a limited sphere I am not more than three miles from my native home a garden so humble you would smile to see its produce at the same time experience has fatally convinced me that neither wealth nor luxury can insure happiness In the course of this day I have revelled among the finest flowers have sported round beautiful china vases and contemplated my own form in mirrors of magnificent structure but my enjoyments were not perfect constant and fearful interruptions destroyed the pleasure within my grasp and I have sutiered a martyrdom in escaping the mischievous and inhuman pranks of children more than ever 1 now regret leaving the peaceful spot that gave me birth the humble cot tage of my first friends was a complete sanctuary and the natural good ness of its youthful inhabitants would never have subjected me to personal danger It is a common fault observed his new acquaintance not to estimate true happiness until it is out of our reach I regret one so young as yourself should find the truth thus early I must acknowledge my curiosity is not a little raised to learn the nature of your perambulations and if the relation be not too painful I would solicit to hear them i am afraid you will be disappointed returned our adventurer but I feel no hesitation in complying He then related the history with which our readers are already acquainted and received the thanks of his hearer for what he was pleased to term an interesting detail Perhaps said the narrator you would oblige me with a similar ac count your knowledge of the world seem infinitely superior to mine and from our age I should judge you must have much more to recount My life has been pretty well chequered answered the stranger but I doubt if its incidents would afford much entertainment as you may perceive my beauty is not very remarkable 1 belong to a common tribe and of course have never attracted the notice of your peacocks eve folks at the same time I am aware this want of personal charms has proved a blessing to me in many instances Children are usually attracted by shewy objects my dull colours have often passed unheeded where your brilliant ones would have invited a chase To tell you every event of inv existence would give ou very little satisfaction my connections are very different from yours I can boast little or ancestry the head of our family was of the skull tribe and you may suppose not an Adonis however I believe he was a well meaning butterfly and less frivolous than we are said to be in general I received a hurt in one of my wings when in infancy which has greatly retarded my flight ever since and frequently placed me in danger I should not otherwise have encountered once indeed it had liked to have ended fatally I had entered a room on the runner of a honeysuckle that grew over a trellis and so occupied by my pleasure that I did not perceive several young ladies drawing at a table when 1 first made the dis cover I was somewhat alarmed for I was ever afraid of the human race but as they pursued their study very quietly I took courage and by degrees ventured to the edge of a glass in which one of the party occasion ally dipped her camels hair pencil she was painting a group of flowers and imitated nature so well I could not help watching her delicate fingers in admiration while thus employed another young artist twitched me from the glass exclaiming Louisa here is a young gentleman wishes to sit for his likeness cannot you introduce him in your group of roses I dont think he would much im prove the beauty of my drawings answered she smiling for I will do him justice he is the plainest butterfly I ever saw his wings look so mean and his colours so dead Aye poor thing said another and I dare say he is almost dead with fright I am not hurting him I assure you said my keeper I hold him as lightly as possible he would intrude himself as a beau and I wish to mortify his vanity but since Louisa has not taste enough to admire him I will send him adrift immediately yet really I do not think it would be but kind to alter his dress a little and if we cannot make him hand some make him gay at least so saying she took a dip from every colour on her palette and spotted my dead looking yellow jacket as she called it the process was gently performed all the injury I sustained was mortification never was a beau more completely humiliated Her companions laughed most heartily I endeavoured to get away and she instantly released me but my wings were heavy with ray new habiliments and this added to the natural infirmity before mentioned checked my motion materially At length the paint dried I felt lighter and was able to fly you may judge I soon quitted this scene of ridicule and to me vexation I heard the laugh at my expence long after my departure and certainly owed the origin of my disgrace no good will In defiance of the young artists assertion I must assert I never was vain or the least inclined to be a beau yet strange to say I felt a kind of Buttering plea sure when I observed the notice my new dress created among our own species various were the opinions as to my origin Most extraordinary said one What tribe does he belong to asked a second I really cannot say returned the in sect applied to I never beheld any thing like him before Depend upon it observed one of your class he is a foreigner I have heard there are some of us of strange shape and colour in other climates and I declare he is not the least like any of our English butterflies I begin to think he is of French origin you know they are reckoned rather whimsical in their dress and like variety of colours only that I am ashamed to betray my ignorance of the language I would address him Flimsy you must know a little of it born as you were in a garden attached to a French boarding school True but my accent is so indifferent Never mind your accent a truce with conceit go to this singular stranger and address him boldly All this conversation I heard as I rested on a wallflower and must own I never was better entertained I was aware that too close an inspection would betray the real quality of my attire and therefore determined to act accordingly Mr Flimsy flew round and round my resting place several times ere he had courage to open his negociation at length he approached and began Dou venez vous Monsieur I am no French scholar but I just knew enough for my purpose stretching out my wings I answered as I bounced by the astonished ambassador Bon soir Monsieur bon soir Never did I behold a butterfly so disconcerted all his learning fled at once slowly he returned to his expectant friends I did not wait to witness their surprise but taking a different direction was soon out of Our hero laughed heartily at whimsicality of this adventurer and enquired how he lost his painted adornments The worst part of the story is to come replied the other after shewing off in borrowed colours I entered a curious building decorated with various specimens of natural curiosities among the rest was a glass case containing a most beautiful collection of our kind golden wings with variegated borders peacocks eyes of wonderful brightness though I as sure you 1 do not flatter when 1 assert you are one of the rarest of your kind Here our butterfly of course made his bow I stood looking at the interesting spectacle and not a little amused by my own grotesque appearance which the lid of the case reflected when raising my eyes I beheld a thin bent little old gentleman pale as that lily his features were harsh and disagree able his dress had once been fine but then wore a tarnished and shabby hue his large wig nearly reached to his nose on which was placed huge spectacles through them he was steadily gazing at something in what I afterwards learned was a micros cope So extraordinary a figure I had ne ver seen and I could not help indulging myself with a survey of his per son No doubt you have guessed his pursuits and his title he was a rr tuoso to us a dreadful name When the trutlr presented itself to my imagination I instantly determined to re treat but alas it was too late he had already discovered me but so cautiously did he set about securing me that I Was perfectly unconscious of his purpose until I felt the excruciating torture of a silver pin through my lame wing which fixed me to the frame of the glass case He raised and wiped his spectacles a dozen times ere he inspected me smiling with the most malignant joy as he viewed my painful struggles e Bless me bless me what a treasure have I found all my years of travel and vast sums expended never procured its equal Here is every color of the rainbow combined wonderful phenomenon of nature Well now I would not give my collection for any other in Europe My Lord Moth head will he quite astonished when he sees this curious insect Really I have a great mind yes I think nay I positively will offer this to the British Museum I shall make my fortune no sum would be too much for such a unique HP then examined me anew and Repeated his admiration in terms so extravagant that had I not been suffering the most torturing agony I must have laughed at his folly I verily believe he thought himself the most fortunate of the human race Little did the merry girl who thus embellished my external appearance imagine the distress her freak had brought on me The delighted virtuoso was interrupted in the height of enthusiasm by a person equally remarkable with him self though in a different way His figure was immensely tall and thin his face the longest I remember to have seen his coat was evidently a castoff one of his masters for he was an assistant and kind of secretary to the old gentleman and of course the habit of a little man could not suit a very tall one the sleeves did not reach to his wrist by some inches and the collar corresponded with the sleeves he carried a small board on which were fastened a number of beetles he had been polishing Come hither Nathaniel Lap wing cried the master here is a sight you could never have hoped to see such a butterfly man such a natural curiosity that I am almost wild with joy when I reflect I am the happy naturalist to whose lot it has fallen Curious indeed replied Nathaniel it is of a garb 1 never beheld what does your honour mean to do with it Aye my friend that is the question I am rather undecided how to act whether to keep it for my own rare collection or present it to the President of the British Museum I might surely ask a handsome price for it So it should seem returned the other drily but you may remember they did not receive your offer of the wonderful cockleshell to your liking and pronounced it a common shell although you declared it was found on the shores of the Gold Coast in Africa i Yes yes I know that I remember that very well Nathaniel not that they doubted my judgment even then but anybody might be mistaken in a cockleshell as young the managers of the Museum were but I defy all the learned and the greatest naturalists in Europe to disavow their belief of this insect being a real curiosity Here are wings Nathaniel blue red yellow stars spots in short all that can astonish and gratify the eye of taste Nathaniel agreed to this and added the wings were entirely different This pointing to the pinioned one has but three spots the other has four nay five As he spoke he touched the admired spot with the end of his finger when behold the chief part of the fine red came away on his nail He stood aghast then touched it a second time and in so doing removed the whole of the color Why what is this exclaimed he in dis may can it be possible that all these fine tints are put on Put on repeated the virtuoso no no it is impossible let me see let me try He did so and the imposition was too palpable to admit of a doubt His rage now equalled his late admiration and he vowed vengeance against me and those who had played the trick for he fully believed it was done to deceive him alone Nathaniel experienced much of his masters mortification but he possessed more humanity for he instantly released me and blew me off his hand into the garden You may conceive my feelings on this unexpected deliverance I felt grateful to the man while I despised his master and sincerely prayed I might never again come within sight of a virtuoso The cause of my calamity had nearly disappeared from the rough experiments of Nathaniel and I took care to rub myself well among the dewy grass so that the remainder of my painted finery was soon effaced Not so my poor wing the in jury it had received has never been entirely remedied and I am at this lime I believe the worst aeronaut among our species This incident my friend is an excellent lesson to the vain and if ever I had been of the number could not fail of making due impression 44 Jt is indeed a lesson returned our peacock butterfly and one that I feel particularly for I must con fess beauty has ever possessed too much of my consideration and I have brought myself into more than one dilemma through this same weak feeling It shows your good sense to ac knowledge it said his new friend and I only wish all our race were as sensible of their errors We are generally remarked for conceit and I am afraid with truth enough but I trust there are some exceptions I envy you your discernment observed the other you see every thing in its proper point of view it is doubly hard you should have suffered for wearing the semblance of attraction when you were wise enough to be happy without the reality 1 Perhaps so but I assure you I am not so faultless as you imagine If I have disregarded appearance I have thought too much of my appetite or to speak more plainly I have been a complete epicure for it was not the quantity so much as the quality of the food that I considered and I have frequently turned in disgust from what I now blush to think did not perfectly satisfy me Nothing like experience my friend I now enjoy the humblest food far more than ever I did the rarities once so coveted I shall never forget my first meal on a potato blossom You smile and no doubt think little of my taste but I positively affirm it is a delicious food Like you I once held it cheap but meeting with a butterfly of Irish extraction he undeceived me it certainly required some persuasion to induce a trial on my part but I was amply repaid by making it I had one morning over feasted myself on a sunflower and like epicures of greater magnitude felt dis agreeable consequences and loathed all food during that day The sight of luxury disgusted me and I quitted a rich flower garden to wander through dusty roads and grass worn fields became drowsy arid indulged myself with a nap On awaking I found my appetite reviving and looked sharp around to discover if food was at hand The prospect was barren indeed and 1 was regretting my precipitancy in quitting the comforts of my mornings residence when a stranger butterfly accosted me There was a civility and agreeableness in his manner which invited confidence and I readily returned his salutation He told me his parents were natives of Hibernia and that he entertained a great respect for their country from his knowledge of their worth he did not account for their coming to this country which circumstance I own surprised me for I could not conceive how they travelled knowing there is a vast extent of water between Ireland and England however curiosity is not one of my failings consequently I did not enquire too minutely into his family affairs He had seen much of the world and had been by no means an idle spectator of its scenes His observations were remarkably shrewd and I really enjoyed his society the anecdotes he related would form a very amusing history I suggested this to him and advised him to publish his adventures And who would read the adventures of a butterfly answered he no no mankind have too many trifling pursuits of their own to be interested in those of a wandering in sect Bless you my friend this is the age for scribbling and if a roar but take a walk in his own grounds he sits down to write a foreign tour performed at home I smiled at this account of the human race for I had never made such deep observations lie noticed my weakness and enquired the cause I was ashamed to confess the source of my indisposition and merely said I had been ill from indigestion but was just then suffering from hunger We will soon get rid of the latter complaint answered he laughing just cross the road with me I will en sure you a treat for an emperor You may suppose I did not hesitate to accept this invitation but judge my surprise when I found the blossom of his country fruit was to be the royal food He saw my astonishment but was not at all offended on the contrary I could perceive he enjoyed my embarrassment he flew merrily from a blossom to blossom humming a lively air which he called Shamrock for ever I was a little mortified by this indifference and inclined to scorn the vulgar feast but whether it was shame hunger his good humour or all combined I know not certain it is I changed my mind and never was more satisfied with a meal before or since From that time I lost mv relish for luxuries and soon acquired a rational and humble appetite I shall ever retain a grateful remembrance of my shamrock friend as I now call him for I may thank bin for many a pleasant unmolested meal and better health than I enjoyed previous to our meeting We afterwards journeyed together several minutes during which I heard several curious particulars respecting his family his father was remarkable for the beauty of his form and colours a distinction that cost him his life he now adorns a celebrated noblemans collection in Lon don His mother met a melancholy end likewise she was skimming the surface of a bowl of milk when her feet sank in too deep to be extricated and the fair Hibernian was drowned It is rather a singular circumstance that the lady butterflys grandmother N lost her life in a similar way viz in a bowl of buttermilk Had you heard the feeling and interesting manner in which he re counted these sad events you would have felt the most lively sensibility I really never sympathized with any one out of my own connexion so sincerely But I remember while he was on the subject our ears were at tacked by the most extraordinary and alarming sounds I fluttered every limb He listened awhile and then jocosely said it was only the voices of some Irish labourers returning from work I was glad to find it was no worse but could not divest myself of alarm any thing so harsh 1 never heard He said the language was expressive but to me it was past expression I was a stranger even to the brogue He understood much of what they said and followed to hear more I loitered behind in the hope of his return for I felt a great desire to be better acquainted But all my wishes died away on perceiving the old virtuoso leaning on Nathaniel turn the corner of the lane within a few yards of me Horror seized my every nerve and I exerted my strength to the utmost to get to a distance not daring to look behind until compelled to stop from weakness I then dis covered my enemy at too great a distance to allow of fear and began to lament the separation from my entertaining acquaintance whom I regret to say I never saw more I some times fear he might fall into the hands of my cruel enemy for his appearance was certainly much in his favor but it is lo be hoped my fears are un founded and that he is now enjoying the benefit of his good qualities and lively disposition I am not very gaily inclined and do not covet much society but it is pleasant now and then to meet a kindred mind such as yours and Shamrocks I feel obliged by the compliment returned our hero and must beg leave to say the pleasure is chiefly mine for until I met you I never knew the sweets of friendship reciprocal communication is certainly one of the sweetest delights of life You are right such communications are a treat but how surfeiting the commonplace conversations of butterflies in general I remember in an excursion I once made meeting a troop of our species on a tour of pleasure as they termed it nothing would satisfy them but my joining the party 1 did so reluctantly want ing courage to repress their urgent 5 entreaties They were most of them of your kind and certainly made a dashing appearance I was rather surprised my plain person should have attracted the notice of such gay folks but I soon discerned that it was my homely figure that produced the invitation two or three fancied themselves wits and were determined to divert them at my expense However mortified I might feel in making this discovery I had prudence enough to conceal my feelings One enquired if shabby brown and dingy yellow were the most fashionable colors to which another replied there had certainly been an attempt to make them so but it had failed and the offended class were about to emigrate to some newly discovered island where the sun never shined and where the dimness of their charms would not be so easily discerned This specimen of butterfly with greatly charmed the party who one and all joined in the laugh begging I would not control my merriment out of good breed ing To this I answered I could not enter into the joke because I did not believe the report I was myself one of the tribe described and so far from being fashionists we always laughed at the ridiculous figure other classes made in endeavouring to ape mankind What classes do you mean asked a pert beau More than one replied I but I leave it to your own conscience whether yours be included in the number He looked a little abashed and indeed they all seemed the graver for my retort but vanity is not easily quelled though it may be often checked We entered a beautiful garden belonging to a lady of high rank who with some friends was enjoying the fragrance of the various gifts of Flora Some of our youthful companions were desirous of showing off on this occasion and quitting the party advanced towards the great folks before whom they ew to and fro in all the pride of conscious beauty Their gratification however was short the charms they prized drew the attention they desired but the re sult was not of so pleasing a nature Two young gentlemen commenced a chance after our stragglers they were not novices at the game for they soon caught and destroyed four of the fairest You may imagine the effect such a scene caused in the survivor who quickly left the hateful place in distress of mind that erased all my for mer contempt but I had no desire to continue the association and took the first opportunity of changing my quarters Except in this one adventure I never mixed with butterflies of rank nor can I say a desire for high life was the consequence Observe I do not wish to treat the great with disrespect but I own I look for something more than ancestry where I wish to esteem And you are right my friend re plied our hero for myself I knew not the value of aw own descent until I heard the remarks of some strangers I met this morning Nor can I say the knowledge of it has increased my happiness for it created a vanity I never should have felt but for the injudicious admiration I cannot ex press how much I am bettered by your good sense and just observations how I wish we might pass the remainder of life together I really feel we were born for friends I see no possible objection to your wishes said the yellow butterfly nay I am assured we shall both be hap pier by joining society and while we enjoy ourselves be enabled to assist the young and giddy by warning them of evils we have escaped and teaching them how to profit by our example Agreed returned the other from this time let one common fate unite us and let our interests and pursuits be the same Each flapped his wing three times in token of agreement and the matter was settled Night now drew on apace and as our butterflies were not of that species travel in darkness they retiree to rest the tulip afforded a comfortable shelter where they enjoyed a re pose kings might have envied Our friends were awakened early the ensuing morning by the clamour of many tongues the noise of which rather alarmed them but the subject of these memoirs soon discovered the truth and in the busy group approaching recognized Mrs Bedfords pupils he imparted this to his companion and they both emerged from their couch to observe the pursuits of the juvenile party whose characters were high in the estimation of each from the event of the preceding evening As it will be necessary to distinguish the two butterflies thus united from one another we shall call our own hero by the name the vand brown one bestowed him friend Peacock from the peculiar beauty of his coat as before ob served Peacock pointed out to his friend the amiable Miss Saville and her young advocate They were together and examining every new blown flower with the greatest interest O Lucy exclaimed the young one look at this beautiful moss rose how it is broken who can have done it I hope no one intentionally answered Lucy for we all admired it so much yesterday I should think it impossible any lady would destroy what they so lately prized All in a breath denied having injured the flower but Miss Savilles discernment induced her to suspect the sincerity of one and she proposed asking each separately the supposed aggressor looked a little confused but assuming courage as her turn drew near boldly denied the action Miss Saville fixed her eyes on the countenance of the young Julia and begged her to reflect a little ere she answered in the negative Why so Miss returned the other pertly I can give no other answer and I think it is very spiteful of you to fix it on me No 7 not spiteful cried several voices Lucy is never spiteful I hope not said Miss Saville gently Nor do I think Julia would say so if she was not angry with me However as I have certainly raised suspicion against her I feel in honour bound to give my reason for so doing Well then yesterday when we were quitting the garden Julia wished to pick a nosegay and among other tiouers selected a rose from this tree Now we all know it is a favourite of dear Mrs 13ed fords and I therefore objected to her taking one observing there were plenty of other roses to suit her purpose She was offended with my interference and said if she must not have the moss rose she would have none She swung her bonnet in anger as we left the spot and when I cautioned her as to the mischief she might do she repeated the action with more violence and bade me trouble my head with my own affairs for the rose tree was not mine At that moment the dinner bell rang a second time and as we o were the two last in the garden I was obliged to hurry indoors without CD J ascertaining if she had really hurt any of the flowers We walked into town in the evening therefore we must be certain no one has been here in the mean time The fact spoke for itself and if a doubt had remained the sullen and guilty countenance of the mischievous girl told sufficient to remove it Censure was unanimous but the kind hearted Lucy unwilling to mortify her more than was necessary ex pressed her belief that she was not aware of the consequences when she gave way to her temper the day before Julia caught at this leniency and answered pertly To be sure she was not I would not give much for your regret said the little Mary if you speak in that sharp way 1 This was a new offence to the pet fish girl and she withdrew from the circle in great anger Miss Saville followed and tried to soften her but she would not listen to any advice and fixed herself against the trunk of a walnut tree in obstinate inactivity The spot was near the tulip bed so that our butterflies had full opportunity of observing her con duct The rest of her companions had joined in play at a distance and thither the winged friends would willingly have followed to view their innocent sports but they dreaded ex posing themselves while Julia was in sight her disposition had sufficiently evinced her capability of hurting them if in her power and they therefore carefully avoided the dan ger by keeping close in their hiding place where they had full opportunity of watching her actions Children are not always sensible of the disgust they create when under the influence of malignant passions Here was a fine and clever little girl exciting the contempt of two insignificant butterflies instead of sharing the amusements and regards of hey schoolfellows her feet which should have been employed in a healthful race were shuffling on the gravel to the detriment of a pair of new kid shoes while her lingers were pluck ing and destroying every leaf within her reach many times her eye turned to the rose tree but fears prevented revenge The tulip prisoners longed for her departure and sincerely rejoiced when the breakfast bell summoned the children to their first meal at this moment Julia made a snatch at some thing and kept it fast in her hands Miss Simpson observed her as they all returned down the great avenue and exclaimed she hoped Julia had not spoiled another rose She made no answer but placed her hand behind her O she has for certain cried Mary I wonder she is not ashamed to go indoors and meet my govern ness Is this the rose said Julia bringing forward and opening her hand All pressed forward to look It was not a flower but a butterfly crushed to death A look of pity passed from one to another and they retreated from the cruel girl as though her company were contagious Shame on yon unfeeling child said Miss Saville be assured your conduct will meet punishment nor shall I endeavour to screen you for you well merit it Saying this she withdrew and the young criminal slowly followed despised and shun ned by all The sympathising breasts of our two friends longed to afford assistance to their poor fellow creature if indeed he still existed and as soon as the children were out of sight they repaired to the spot but alas their humanity was unavailing life was extinct As they bent over him with sad regret a sudden exclamation from his companion startled the Peacock and he enquired the cause Behold cried the other behold in this unhappy victim of human passions my valued friend Shamrock 5 c Is it possible But too true indeed I perceived the likeness the first moment 1 looked at the bod and a close inspection places the fact beyond doubt How I lament we did not meet before he fell into the hands of that cruel girl how much entertainment and instruction have we not missed by hi unexpected demise This is another proof of the uncertainty of butterfly happiness I tremble my dear Peacock lest our separation be near at hand and perhaps from a similar fate Say not so returned the other you make me shudder at the bare idea of such a thing I believe I never possessed great fortitude and am assured should such a fate be in store for one and I the survivor I should prove a bad philosopher J Pray gentlemen said a brisk young butterfly whose white wings seemed to float in the air have you met in the course of your morning rambles one of us with scarlet wings spotted here and there in a curious manner though not so handsome as that gentlemans meaning our hero Now it may be remembered Pea cock had no partiality for ladies of the white robe he remembered the flirtation of one and doubted the sincerity of this his vanity was not so alert as heretofore and the compliment to his beauty produced no gratification His sage friend took upon himself to answer seeing his reluctance to notice the lady I cannot say ma dam that we have noticed a butterfly answering your description Dear me it is very strange re turned she he is a particular friend of mine and promised to meet me this morning to conduct me to a gar den not very far from this where I am to join a large party at a sweet pea feast I am but a novice in travelling and so fearful of children that I tremble at the sight of one and just now I stumbled on half a hundred in these very grounds I really thought I should have fainted j however I escaped unperceived by any of them I am happy to say answered our Peacock that your fears were groundless for excepting one child the rest were too amiable to hurt a worm 1 wish it were more often the case observed the stranger for really I have heard terrible accounts of them 5 e Ah my dear Lily cried a scar let winged butterfly approaching the trio I have been looking for you these live minutes past And I have been waiting for you replied she it is past the time appointed I began to fancy some mis hap had befallen you or that you had changed the route and was en quiring of the good strangers if they had seen one of your kind Well I am here at last and ready to attend you to our party who anxiously look for your presence Perchance these gentlemen will be gracious enough to join us and share the delights of a pea feast I will ensure them plenty and a welcome Our friends at first refused but Scarlet was pressing and Lily was engaging so between both they gained their point and after a pleasant flight they descended to a bed of sweet peas whose beautiful tints and delightful fragrance might have tempted any butterfly in the universe it may be that Brown and yellow experienced a slight return of former epicurisms for his spirits exhilarated as he viewed the luxurious scene They were received with every mark of respect by the gay party assembled Our heros rank and beauty entitled him to attention and not withstanding the inferiority of his companions appearance they imagined he must he somebody by sharing his friendship and they perceived he treated Brown and yellow with regard and deference Good humour was the order of the day they met for enjoyment and all appeared satisfied Lily was a great favourite with her friends and could lead them to what she liked she proposed a short excursion after the repast which was readily agreed to and she spread her white wings as guide they followed and entered a delightful greenhouse it was the first our hero had ever seen internally and excited his warmest admiration the warbling of birds in an adjoining aviary added to his pleasure and he proposed to his friend their taking up their residence in the charming place I admire its beauties equally with yourself answered he but should be sorry lo decide on your plan no no it is too near the habitation of man I should never feel secure a moment it is very well to visit such a place occasionally but I have no desire to make it my home You are right no doubt re turned Peacock I spoke at random you always reflect ere you utter 3our sentiments Lily now advanced and informed them that she had discovered a most elegant apartment at the extremity of the greenhouse decorated with shrubs orange trees and in short every thing they could fancy as beautiful and added there were two ladies in the room one shewing the other some curious stuffed birds in glass cases I dont like the last part of your account said Brown and yellow I ieai she is a virtuoso 1 What a female virtuoso Yes Miss Lily no uncommon thing I assure you Her fancy may not stop at birds and I should regret to see any of my fair companions fall a sacrifice to her good taste and discernment But she is such a sweet looking her dress is so elegant and every thing looks so enticing around her That you would have us fall into the snare to admire the bait that caught us I speak disinterestedly for my class is not one to claim her notice it is more than probable I am safe but ye young and lovely would for certain meet danger and I dare not let my dear friend encounter the c While I can possibly prevent it Several agreed with the last speaker but more with Lily who whispered our hero that his friend was jealous of their superior charms and because he could not shew himself off to ad vantage wished to keep them all in the background Our butterfly had too much sense to attribute such motives to his friends but example is a dangerous thing he could not divest himself of Lilys wish and at length openly espoused the same side of the question It was at last decided that six of the party should visit the charming apartment and after satisfying their curiosity return and despatch the others on the same errand Lily had gained an influence over our peacock of which he was not conscious and although it was arranged he should not be one of the first party she soon persuaded him to and against the advice of brown and yellow he actually set forth on the hazardous expedition Mis friend however followed at a distance in the hope that should he perceive danger approaching he might Induce his volatile favourite to return Lily had not said too much of the scene they were to witness the apartment was indeed elegant and the ladies did honor to the apartment they were yet looking at the birds Weil said one of the fair exa miners I am infinitely obliged to you for this exhibition I have seen many birds preserved in a similar way but never such beautiful ones it is really quite a treat Have you any insects or shells and fossils Some few of the latter but I think there is much cruelty in collect ing insects as 1 know they are generally killed for the purpose and for this reason I never wish them to adorn mv cabinet I told you there was no danger whispered Lily did you ever hear sweeter tones of humanity You are very tenderhearted said the other lady smiling it really never entered my head I have been so accustomed to view them in all stages and I certainly do admire them butterflies for instance Here our travellers halted and listened eagerly for the remainder of her speech She continued Butterflies for instance what can be more beautiful My father has some in his collection that are quite wonderful I know he has but can never re concile myself to such things I declare when I go to Mr Siiakeheads Museum I never enjoy the scene for reflecting on the means he 1ms adopted to procure many of the harmless creatures before me Charmed as our party were with the sentiments of the last speaker they did not feel quite at ease in the presence of her companion Per haps said one she maybe in the habit of collecting insects and killing them for her father I am frightened out of my wits lest she should disco ver us Never fear answered Lily her friend will protect us in my mind we are safer here than any where I have a great desire to see these birds and shall venture to the table assured our fair advocate will not suffer harm to befal me It was in vain the rest opposed this bold intention Lily was a positive butterfly and made her way to the table as she said A sudden and violent storm of thunder and rain startled the two who quitted their employment The tenderhearted one let the case fall suddenly from her hands the fate of Lily was decided its weight crushed her to atoms as she was creeping on the table beneath The act was perfectly unintentional and the perpetrator remained ignorant of the death she had occasioned Not so the horrorstruck party of her own species who had gathered in a circle to witness her Quixotism and consequently all beheld her melancholy end Our hero felt particularly affected and hastened from the lately admired spot as fast as possible He felt ashamed on perceiving Brown and yellow closely watching him You know all that has passed of course said he I do indeed returned his friend and much as I lament the fate of our pretty Lily am thankful for your escape this is no place for us let us return to the greenhouse thank the good folk for their hospitalitv and again seek the regions of air freedom is every thing to us who are Natures children in future we will content ourselves with her simple produce enjoy it in its natural state and not hazard this constant peril by seek ing more refined food Peacock had nothing to offer in contradiction to these truths and readily agreed to quit the greenhouse as soon as the forms of civility were over Their intention was no doubt prudent but the plan was far more easily concerted than executed for during their absence the windows of the greenhouse had been closed by the careful gardener when the storm commenced and as it yet continued the whole party were detained prisoners There did not appear much danger m the situation but Lilys catastrophe had a material effect on their spirits and all seemed anxious to be off It should seem that patience is a desirable quality even in a butterfly for in the present case no other remedy was at hand While flying from shrub to shrub anxiously awaiting the reopening of the windows Peacock discovered an opening in one of the sashes sufficiently wide to allow of escape With joy he communicated the same but to his great surprise many pre ferred remaining until the storm was over A few were wiser and with Brown and yellow availed them selves of what they deemed good fortune On regaining their liberty our friends took a grateful leave of their new acquaintance and directed their flight towards the garden of Mrs Bed ford where they hoped to enjoy u quiet repose for they flattered them selves Miss Julia would be very cautious in showing her ill temper hi future Unfortunately they had not a just idea of the distance and sup posed themselves near their former residence when they were wide from it Peacock observed a garden wall Of which looked very like Mrs Bedfords and they quickly descended on the other side It was not the spot expected but there was a similarity in the laying out the flowerbeds and they concluded it was a different part of the same grounds and they doubted not by perseverance arriving at the tulip bed The farther they went however the more they found themselves astray and despairing of gaining the desired haven they were beginning to consider if it were wise to take up their abode in this new place when a hubbub of many loud voices made them start with surprise and in a few seconds the green lawn before them vas covered by a number of boys buoyant with youth and spirits They now no longer doubted their mistake and guessing that a boys seminary was no place of security for butter flies they again took their departure as speedily as possible Wishing to avoid the public road they turned into a long narrow lane shaded by trees afford ing a delight ful shelter and leaving them at liberty to enjoy a little private conversation How much I regret said Brown wings our foolish acceptation of the strangers invitation we have lost our quiet and pleasant home have suffered much unnecessary anxiety and witnessed the melancholy death of a lovely female who perhaps in her wish to entertain us hastened her own fate Alas I fear so returned the other but my share of blame is far greater than yours for had I resisted poor Lilys proposal she might have desisted in compliment to us as strangers Well it is now too late to repair the error observed Brown wings we must he more cautious in time to come I only wish we could find our old haunt I felt attached to it and am persuaded the amiable pupils of Mrs Bedford would never have molested our sports But see what have we here look through this gap there is a fine house and spacious grounds what a beautiful border of flowers round that lawn it is quite tempting But I fear it is too public we will just take a survey of the place and pursue our journey for retirement is now our first and most desirable object True answered Peacock but methinks we could meet no harm in taking a nearer view of this fair scene His friend thought so too and they accordingly went through the opening over a low paling and approached the enticing flower border The house at some distance was a magnificent ancient structure and they guessed belonged to some nobleman of high rank a fine park lay to the right in short the whole formed a spacious demesne which they admired some time unmolested At length they heard approaching steps and shortly beheld a female servant with a young child it was just learning to walk and looked so pretty and innocent that our butterflies rested on a briar to watch its interesting motion The nurse was not one of those careful attendants who may be trusted with their charge out of sight of the pa rent in fact she was any thing but Hannah Bennett Holding the babe carelessly by the arm she let it slip and the helpless little creature fell on its face on the gravel walk As may be supposed loud cries followed the blow and Mrs Nurse used all her powers of coaxing to quiet the young lord as she called him but he was not so easily pacified and the woman appeared frightened lest his shrieks should reach the house She picked flower after flower which he threw from him indignantly Nurse was more alarmed At length her eye caught the two spectators of the scene when forgetting every thing but her young masters cries she grasped Brown and yellow who was nearer than our hero and holding him up by the wing cried See see my sweet darling here is a pretty creature a nice fine butterfly all for my own child shall nurse beat the naughty thing for making dear Lord Charles fall and hurt his pretty face Lord Charles now held his tongue for a moment and stretched out his chubby hands for the naughty butter fly but no sooner was it in his power than the unconscious babe tore the unfortunate insect into a dozen pieces Gentle readers imagine the feelings of our hero while beholding the horrible transaction Grief indignation despair each took possession of his breast in a paroxysm of wretchedness he flew over the bush and lighted at the feet of the unfeeling woman in the hope she would seize him as a second sacrifice but whether she overlooked him or the sound of voices now induced her flight we know not but suddenly snatching up the child she hurried clown a serpentine walk and soon disappeared Sincere and bitter were the lamentations our solitary wanderer poured forth over the mangled relics of his disinterested friend Never never more cried he shall I meet with such a true friend in thee I have lost all that made life desirable no longer will I shun the haunts of man I will present myself to his view at all times and seek the death I have hitherto avoided Accident I may es cape but the cruelty of human nature is certain We are all apt to forget past good when evil presents itself just so with our brokenhearted butterfly in his grief for this heavy loss he forgot the humanity of the gentle Phebe and Ned the kindness of Lucy Saville and the feeling of Lilys unconscious destroyer It must be allowed his conduct v as censurable but if we feel that intellectual beings are capable of the same we may assuredly be lenient to a despairing insect Scarcely knowing how he flew he approached the house and entered the first open window He saw a male and female but he did not as heretofore shun them the gentleman was reading and the lady lolling on a sofa half asleep A moments view of the latter discovered to him the fair virtuoso who acknowledged her admiration of dead butterflies to her friend in the greenhouse apartment A moment before he had desired death now he shrank from the chance of his wish being realized yet like the moth and the candle he hovered round the flame wanting power or resolution to escape The indolence of the lady prevented her rising to look about her but his terror was not abated by her inactivity for he guessed the sour countenanced gentleman reading was no other than her father whose collection she had so praised In truth he was right the noble lord was no other than the celebrated Earl of Mothhead whom our readers may remember was mentioned by the old virtuoso to Nathaniel Lap wing Suddenly laying down the book he exclaimed Lady Amelia secure at beautiful butterfly at your left elbow he is worth preserving Her ladyship endeavoured to do as desired but our nimble hero avoid ed her slender fingers and flew to the opposite side of the room The earl jumped up his daughter did the same and a complete ehace ensued during which the persecuted insect received many severe contusions though eventually he escaped the snare and made his way into the grounds by another window But freedom was all he gained his sufferings were acute and strength seemed fast decaying With much difficulty he reached the opposite side of the lawn and crawling up the low walk descended into the lane from which he first entered How unlike his entrance was the departure Alone in pain of mind as well as body it seemed of little consequence where he went next but all sense left him was horror of the earl and his grand estate and he fancied if he could once lose sight of it he should die content A long time elapsed before he did so for lite was fast vrasth Who shall speak his joy when turning the corner of the green lane he beheld the humble cottage the home of his earliest favourites Yes the much regretted spot was now be fore him his native jasmine source of his happiest meals The sight renovated his drooping spirits he flew to the open casement saw the rosy features of Phebe resting on her brothers shoulder crept to the nearest branch of jasmine dropped on one of its fairest blossoms and DIED SO ENDS THE RAMBLES OF A BUTTERFLYobserve the insect race ordained to keep the silent sabbath of a half years sleep entomd beneath the filmy web they lie and wait the influence of a kinder sky when vernal sunbeams pierce the dark retreat the heaving tomb distends with vital heat the full formed brood impatient of their cell start from their trance and burst their silken shell insects are so called from a separation in the middle of their bodies seemingly cut into two parts and joined together by a small ligature as we see in wasps and common flies however small and contemptible this class of beings may appear at first thought yet when we come to reflect and carefully investigate we shall be struck with wonder and astonishment and shall discover that the smallest gnat that buzzes in the meadow is as much a subject of admiration as the largest elephant that ranges the forest or the hugest whale which ploughs the deep and when we consider the least creature that we can imagine myriads of which are too small to be discovered without the help of glasses and that each of their bodies is made up of different organs or parts by which they receive or retain nourishment c with the power of action how natural the exclamation o lord how manifold are thy works in wisdom hast thou made them all under these considerations that they are the work of the same great good and almighty hand that formed us and that they are all capable of feeling pleasure and pain surely every little child as well as older person ought carefully to avoid every kind of cruelty to any kind of creature great or small the supreme court of judicature at athens punished a boy for putting out the eyes of a poor bird and parents and masters should never overlook an instance of cruelty to any thing that has life however minute and seemingly contemptible the object may be i would not enter on my list of friends   though gracd with polishd manners and fine sense yet wanting sensibility the man   who needlessly sets foot upon a worm the elephantbeetle is the largest of this kind hitherto known and is found in south america particularly in guiana about the rivers surinam and oroonoko it is of a black colour and the whole body is covered with a shell full as thick and as strong as that of a small crab there is one preserved in the museum that measures more than six inches grasshoppers are too common to need description as they abound almost wherever there is green grass one summer only is their period of life they are hatched in the spring and die in the fall previous to which they deposite their eggs in the earth which the genial warmth of the next season brings to life they are food for many of the feathered race there are two classes of crickets viz the field cricket and the house cricket the latter inhabits warm places the holes of the hearth c from whence we hear its notes which are agreeable it is said that they are purchased by some and kept in a kind of cage for the sake of their music field crickets inhabit the meadows and subsist on roots c as does another species called the mole cricket there are different kinds of the locust those we are acquainted with in this country are represented in the above cut in some seasons they are scarcely heard at all in others they are more numerous about the middle or latter part of summer we hear them among the leaves of the trees their notes which are continued about the space of one minute are loud at the beginning and grow lower and lower till they cease when they immediately fly to another tree begin again and end in the same way and so on in the eastern countries a kind or kinds of locust at different periods have been very numerous and have done abundance of damage in the year 1650 a cloud of locusts entered russia in three different places and from thence spread over poland and lithuania the air was darkened and the earth covered in some places to the depth of four feet the trees bent with heir weight and the damage sustained exceeded computation locusts were among the plagues of egypt sec exodus x 15 this very troublesome little animal multiplies very fast among old rags dirt straw and litter where hogs cats or dogs sleep and in the hair and bristles of those creatures therefore as a means of avoiding such unwelcome neighbours in the springs the cleanly farmer scrapes up the rubbish about his woodpile and around his house and barn and removes it into his field where it also repays him by manuring his lands they abound in warm countries particularly in the southern parts of france and italy when examined by a microscope the flea is a pleasant object the body is curiously adorned with a suit of polished armour neatly jointed and beset with a great number of sharp pins almost like the quills of a porcupine it has a small head large eyes two horns or feelers which proceed from the head and four long legs from the breast they are very hairy and long and have several joints which fold as it were one within another these loathsome animals however unwelcome attend in troops and add to the afflictions of the unfortunate and lazy but they are routed by the hand of industry and cleanliness in examining the louse with a microscope its external deformity strikes us with disgust it has six feet two eyes and a sort of sting proboscis or sucker with which it pierces the skin and sucks the blood the skin of the louse is hard and transparent with here and there several bristly hairs at the end of each leg are two claws by which it is enabled to lay hold of the hairs on which it climbs there is scarcely any animal known to multiply so fast as this unwelcome intruder from an experiment of lieuenhoek a louse in eight weeks may see five thousand of its descendants among the ancients what is called the lousy disease was not uncommon antiochus herod and others are said to have died of this disorder there are many species of mites beside the itch animal and mite above to the naked eye they appear like moving particles of dust but the microscope discovers them to be perfect animals having as regular a figure and performing all the functions of life as perfectly as creatures that exceed them many times in bulk their eggs are so small that a regular computation shews that 90 millions of them are not so large as a common pigeons egg the chego is a very small animal about one fourth the size of a common flea it is very troublesome in warm climates to the poor blacks such as go barefoot and the slovenly it penetrates the skin under which it lays a bunch of eggs which swell to the bigness of a small pea the deathwatch of which there are two kinds is an insect famous for a ticking noise like a watch which superstitious people take for a presage of death in the family where it is heard this is one of the largest of the insect tribe it is met with in different countries and of various sizes from two or three inches to nearly a foot in length it somewhat resembles a lobster and casts its skin as the lobster does its shell scorpions are common in hot countries they are very bold and watchful when any thing approaches they erect their tails and stand ready to inflict the direful sting in some parts of italy and france they are among the greatest pests that plague mankind they are very numerous and are most common in old houses in dry or decayed walls and among furniture insomuch that it is attended with much danger to remove the same their sting is generally a very deadly poison though not in all cases owing to a difference of malignity of different animals or some other cause in the time of the children of israel scorpions were a plague in egypt and canaan as appears by the sacred writings see deuteronomy viii 15 and other passages   who can observe the faithful ant   and not provide for future want these little animals have been for ages considered as patterns of industry they were specially noticed by the wise king solomon he says go to the ant thou sluggard consider her ways and be wise the ant lays eggs in the manner of common flies from these eggs are hatched small maggots or worms without legs these after a short time change into large white aureliae or chrysales which are usually called ants eggs when a nest of these creatures is disturbed however great their own danger the care they take of their offspring is remarkable each takes in its foreceps a young one often larger than itself and carries it off these little insects form to themselves with much industry and application of earth sticks leaves c little hillocks called anthills in the form of a cone in these they dwell breed and deposite their stores they are commonly built in woody places the brushy plains on longisland abound with them they are from one to two feet in height this is an extraordinary curious and remarkably industrious little insect to which mankind are indebted for one of the most palatable and wholesome sweets which nature affords and which was one of the choice articles with which the promised land was said to abound in every hive of bees there are three kinds the queen the drones and the labourers of these last there are by far the greatest number and as cold weather approaches they drive from the hives and destroy the drones that have not laboured in summer and will not let them eat in winter if bees are examined through a glass hive all appears at first like confusion but on a more careful inspection every animal is found regularly employed it is very delightful when the maple and other trees are in bloom or the clover in the meadows to be abroad and hear their busy hum   brisk as the busy bee among learnings flowers   employ thy youthful sunshine hours of these flies which are called by many spindles there are various species they all have two very large eyes covering the whole surface of the head they fly very swiftly and prey upon the wing clearing the air of innumerable little flies the great ones live about water but the smaller are common among hedges and about gardens of butterflies there are many kinds how wonderful the various changes of this class of insects the butterflies lay their eggs from these hatch out worms or caterpillars which change their skins several times and finally become aureliae chrysales or silkworms out of which come the beautiful butterflies there are many kinds of spiders some of which are said to grow to such a size that they will catch small birds some are poisonous but the greater part are harmless although to most people their looks are disgusting the web of a spider which is a net for catching its prey is an astonishing piece of curiosity the silk worm is a very valuable insect it is produced from an egg of a yellowish colour about the size of a small pins head that is laid by a moth or butterfly the above cut represents a male and female and her eggs of which she lays several hundreds the moths live but a few days they never eat and die directly after the eggs are laid this cut shews the appearance of the worm which at first is very small and black its food is the leaves of the white mulberry as it grows in size at four different periods it apparently sickens and changes its skin and finally when full grown it spins a ball of silk called a cone or cocoon the thread of which is about three hundred yards long in the centre of this ball the worm entombs itself and experiences a change to a state called an aurelia or chrysallis as seen below the ball from this aurelia the moth that lays the eggs is hatched and thus goes on the round of this animals changes or transmigrations they are natives of china and were brought into italy above twelve hundred years ago from thence into spain afterwards into france much later into germany and the northern countries and some have been reared in the united states of america
